2219:US	52496677	R1EMEJRQCL6VGK	0823003426	559431032	ART: The World of Art, from Aboriginal to American Pop, Renaissance Masters to Postmodernism	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Finally, A Fine Resource Art Book that Covers All of Art	So often the big coffee table sized Art Books may be splendid to peruse, but their contents are usually limited to Western Art.  Robert Belton in this very generous and lavishly illustrated tome seeks to fill that gap by devoting a significant amount of his book to the art of Eastern Civilizations, Tribal Art and art from places from where we have very few examples - until now.<br /><br />The writing is erudite without reverting to 'artspeak' and the layout of the book, obeying the thought of alphabetizing to facilitate cross referencing, is not only helpful to the entire spectrum of art majors to art novices, it makes the book one of those to which we can turn for quick information.  Belton does not gloss over important changes in the fluid movement of art history. Quite the contrary, his writing exceeds expectations set by other 'big pretty art books'.  This is one volume that can easily be recommended to all readers interested in a fine, well-illustrated  resource book about the history of art.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, October 05	2005-10-13
5840:US	52496677	R3P0NQ75R96HIC	1556592272	258404693	Present Company	Books	5	33	33	N	N	On Merwin: Words of Praise Fail	How does one write critically about the abundant beauty of the poetry of W.S. Merwin?  Long acclaimed as one of our most poignant and important poets, his newest collection is an endless stream of homages to fleeting thoughts, ideas, and other delicacies encounter by the informed eye and heart.  Merwin keeps his language simple but continues to prod our senses with challenging concepts.  In these one hundred odd poems he wanders through our perceptions and imaginations and strikes chords familiar and foreign, all with the flowing beauty of his carefully molded words.<br /><br />These poems seem to be odes, not so much to people as to natural matters and objects and notions.  In 'To a Falling Leaf in Winter':  'At sundown when a day's words/ have gathered at the feet of the trees/ lining up in silence/ to enter the long corridors/ of the roots into which they/ pass one by one thinking/ that they remember the place/ as they fell themselves climbing/ away from their only sound/ while they are being forgotten/ by their bright circumstances/ they rise through all the rings/ listening again/ afterward as they/ listened once and they come/ to where the leaves used to live/ during their lives but have gone now/ and they too take the next step/ beyond the reach of meaning.'<br /><br />There are no adequate descriptives for Merwin's gifts.  They are simply there for the savouring of those with quiet hearts to read and hear.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, October 05	2005-10-11
7778:US	52496677	R3DP5N0LCA4OP8	1888451777	929984897	Godlike	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Revisiting Paul Verlaine and Arthur Rimbaud: Another Season with Hell	Richard Hell continues to startle, shock, and energize the art world with his juicy creative spins, traits which initiated the Punk music era in the 1970s and have continued to challenge stagnations in music, poetry and literature with his naughty and knotty publications.<br /><br />GODLIKE is Hell's homage to similar minds of the 19th century. Written as a memoir + essay from his hospital bed in 1997, his narrator (who sounds very like Hell himself) is the old poet Paul Vaughn writing about his obsessive love affair with a young lad, fellow poet \\"T.\\" (Randell Terence Wode), a lad who migrated from the sticks of Kentucky to the wilds of beatnik New York and began a torrid sexual liaison with Paul, a bizarre symbiotic tryst that carried them across the Eastern seaboard in a drug and alcohol induced stupor. And if the story sounds familiar then that is part of Hell's success. The story updates and parallels the infamous gay relation ship between poet Paul Verlaine and the disturbingly brilliant youth Arthur Rimbaud, two of France's most influential poets who changed their medium dramatically.<br /><br />Others have used the Verlaine/Rimbaud biography to fine ends in film ('Total Eclipse' with Leonardo DiCaprio as Rimbaud and David Twelis as the older Verlaine) and in contemporary opera ('Season in Hell' by Harold Blumenfeld), but her Richard Hell not only pays homage to these great poets, he gives them contemporary words and poems and adventures that result in the most viscerally accurate vision of that duos' influence on poetry.<br /><br />Hell writes pithy, tart, smarmy prose, describing the physical meanderings of sexual liaisons while keeping his eye clearly focused on the poetic geneses those encounters initiated. While not all of the short novel is successful (there is a portion when Paul and T. are not the focus when the writing becomes a bit too self-indulgent - aimless writing for words' sakes), when Hell is on target the story is captivating.<br /><br />It helps considerably to have some background on Verlaine and Rimbaud's lives and works to appreciate the grit of this tale and taking the time to read some of the two poets' poetry will serve the reader well. But Hell's philosophical musings are excellent: \\"Those who die young don't know what they're missing! It's all worked out. The older one gets, the more one's drawn to the sky. And of course that's where one is heading. The sky of anti-admonition: a premonition. Not a threat but a promise. Heaven to flow in disintegration that way.\\"<br /><br />Richard Hell may not be in the realm of great authors, but is assuredly in the ranks of the challenging disrupters! He is worth paying attention to if you have questions as to the boundaries of literature! Grady Harp, October 05<br />It helps considerably to have some background on Verlaine and Rimbaud's lives and works to appreciate the grit of this tale and taking the time to read some of the two poets' poetry will serve the reader well. But Hell's philosophical musings are excellent: \\"Those who die young don't know what they're missing! It's all worked out. The older one gets, the more one's drawn to the sky. And of course that's where one is heading. The sky of anti-admonition: a premonition. Not a threat but a promise. Heaven to flow in disintegration that way.\\"  <br /> <br />Richard Hell may not be in the realm of great authors, but is assuredly in the ranks of the challenging disrupters! He is worth paying attention to if you have questions as to the boundaries of literature! Grady Harp, October 05 <br />	2005-10-10
11972:US	52496677	R38THL32W4U6QR	0810949814	520427158	Symphony: Frank Gehry's Walt Disney Concert Hall	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Chamber for Music Continues to Unveil Its Secrets	It is the beginning of the Third Season of the Walt Disney Concert Hall as the home of the Los Angeles Philharmonic and a reminder to again study the conceptual emergence of Frank Gehry's architectural masterpiece.  SYMPHONY: FRANK GEHRY'S WALT DISNEY CONCERT HALL is as fine a way to understand why all the magic happens as any book on his work and about this building in particular.<br /><br />Beautifully illustrated, this takes us from the origin of Gehry's idea, the various sketches, renderings and models, the ground breaking ceremonies, then the gradual rising of the skeleton of the support system to the wrapping of the sculpture in various glazes of steel and glass, to the finished product.  Each stage is extraordinary, mesmerizing, detailed and edifying.<br /><br />Accompanying the work in progress are essays and commentary by acoustician Minoru Nagata, urban specialist Carol McMichael Reese, Frank Gehry, Deborah Borda and Conductor Esa-Pekka Salonen and enhance the majestic photography by Grant Mudford.<br /><br />But as with all descriptive books, all written and photographic comments, the truth is in the final result: the quality of sound and spiritual experience of live orchestral and choral music in the hall is paramount.  And it is now, after two seasons and beginning its third that the proof is in the hearing.  This is one of the most acoustically perfect places to experience music in the world.  Composers (including Salonen in 'Wing on Wing') continue to be inspired to write commissioned works that reveal ever more extensive attributes of the space.  The third season opened with Magnus Lindberg's 'Sculpture - The LA Project', a work for huge orchestra minus first violins but including two pianos, the great organ, extensive percussion section, and expanded deep voices in all the sections, and the effect was dazzling.<br /><br />This book is a must for music lovers, architecture admirers, and for both those who are still wondering how this miracle happened as well as those planning to visit Los Angeles to hear and see for themselves.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, October 05sit Los Angeles to hear and see for themselves.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, October 05	2005-10-07
15086:US	52496677	R1CWRXAI5SLD2Y	059534142X	617107669	201 Atwater	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Vagaries of History, Family and Social Change From the Vantage of Place!	Marion Marchetto places her novelist hat in the ring with a very fine story that captures the reader's attention and holds it firmly until the last surprising page.  201 ATWATER does not pretend to be the next Great American Novel: it is a relatively short work in length but one that obeys all the rules of novel construction and manages to find a new voice that is apropos for the subject matter and heralds the arrival of a strong new talent.<br /><br />201 ATWATER is the address of a house in New Haven, CT built in the mid-nineteenth century, a house full of history, intrigue, witness to social change, and multiple ownership.  The unique aspect of this story is that the narrator of the story is the house itself, a writing tool that could become 'precious' in the hands of a less skilled novelist, but one that works exceedingly well for Marchetto.<br /><br />The story begins in contemporary time when a young couple has inherited the wonderful old but dilapidated house and proceed to restore it either for selling or keeping as a home.  The couple begin research into the history of the house, discover significant items that suggest clues to hidden secrets, and as the story progresses the house relates the stories it has witnessed through the past century and a half as each of the fascinating clues is explained.  From the original builder through the current occupants we meet wonderful characters  such as Caroline Woodruff who uses the house to safeguard runaway slaves as part of the Underground Railroad following the Civil War, and then follow the lives of those people to whom she gave refuge and freedom, finding all the permutations of those good deeds. We also meet scoundrels, racketeers, illegitimate children, descendents whose lives fall apart in the Stock Market Crash and the Great Depression, gentle people, lovers,  and various boarders and families. Finally a designer called upon by the young contemporary couple to restore the house has the ability to communicate with the spirits of the house and draws all of the history into view in reconstructing the 150 years of 201 ATWATER!<br /><br />In the first pages of the novel it feels as though this story is simplistic, but it is impossible to stop reading because of the keen manner in which Marchetto builds suspense, solid characters about whom we truly care, and continues to teach us about parts of American history and social changes that are not only interesting but wise.  The book is very well designed and is a wholly enjoyable read.  Marion Marchetto has the gift and that only makes us eager for her next foray into American fiction writing.  Recommended.  Grady Harp, October 05cate with the spirits of the house and draws all of the history into view in reconstructing the 150 years of 201 ATWATER!   <br /> <br />In the first pages of the novel it feels as though this story is simplistic, but it is impossible to stop reading because of the keen manner in which Marchetto builds suspense, solid characters about whom we truly care, and continues to teach us about parts of American history and social changes that are not only interesting but wise.  The book is very well designed and is a wholly enjoyable read.  Marion Marchetto has the gift and that only makes us eager for her next foray into American fiction writing.  Recommended.  Grady Harp, October 05	2005-10-05
15315:US	52496677	R39LNRO8EIHSDI	1904095097	109673371	For Years Now: Poems by W. G. Sebald Images by Tess Jaray	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Memories and Deep Impressions	In 1999 the late and greatly lamented WG Sebald collaborated with his admirer, artist Tess Jaray, to match each other's influence in producing twenty-three short poems each with an accompanying 'visualization'.  The result is FOR YEARS NOW and while this may not bring new fans to those who love Sebald's 'novels', the book is beautiful reading.<br /><br />Though Sebald taught in the UK and was wholly bilingual, his books were written in his native German.  This short book of poetry is a significant diversion in that the poems were written in English.  The subjects are like brief thoughts, mostly suffused with Sebald's signature melancholy and rather disappointed view of the universe he strolled. 'Please send me/ the brown coat/ the one I used/ to wear on/ my night journeys.'  Incandescent moments, minimal words, yet each with Jaray's abstract illustrations makes a significant impact.<br /><br />Simple though this short book is, it is further proof that Sebald was one of our more important writers who died far too young.  Recommended.  Grady Harp, October 05	2005-10-05
21708:US	52496677	R153SV0TFOMVZN	0870701843	393906276	Pioneering Modern Painting: Cezanne And Pissarro 1865 To 1885	Books	5	32	33	N	N	A Fine Catalogue of an Important Exhibition: Dialogues of Cezanne and Pissarro	Though this book is a catalogue for an important exhibition traveling to the West Coast after its origin in the Museum of Modern Art in New York, it is so finely produced and contains such important information along with generous examples of the works of two significant artists that it is sure to become a major contribution to the history of art libraries around the world.  It is beautiful to peruse, intelligently written and opens a window into one of the more interesting and productive friendships in art history.<br /><br />Meeting in art school in the 1860's Paul C&eacute;zanne (1839-1906) and Camille Pissarro (1830-1903) continued a mutually beneficial camaraderie for twenty years, during which time they produced not only beautiful paintings but also defined an important transitional period in art. While many view Pissarro as the echt-Impressionist, and  C&eacute;zanne as the pioneering Post-Impressionist, essayist Joachim Pissarro's text questions the significance of these preconceived  art history monikers in codifying each artist's stance in the overall view of art history. The true significance in the  development of their friendship and dialogues about art, as captured in their painting together in Pontoise and Auvers, France, lead to the development of Modernism in painting.<br /><br />Wisely and elegantly designed, this book places works by each artist side by side, illuminating the interplay of the two master painters and allowing the viewer to absorb the similarities as well as the  disparities that created such a powerful dialogue and relationship and explores how each artist sought new ways to express the visualized scene before him. This is a very fine monograph, vividly encouraging all art lovers to seek attendance at the exhibition wherever possible.  Grady Harp, October 05	2005-10-01
22039:US	52496677	RL2PWHZZDCUJB	1903973244	179518927	Jacob Van Ruisdael: Master of Landscape	Books	5	20	21	N	N	An Extraordinary Achievement	There is really only one word that describes this historically significant painter AND this extensive volume about his contribution to landscape painting and that word is 'Stunning'.  For those who do not readily recognize the name of van Ruisdael, that fact may be due to the media's attention to only certain controversial painters.  Jacob van Ruisdael lived from 1628 to 1682 and both in his time and in the years subsequent his mastery of the fine art of landscape painting is considered by many art historians to be without rival.<br /><br />The Dutch painter van Ruisdael not only painted vistas of landscapes in the raw, he also found majesty in villages, cities and rural scenes, seascapes, beaches, and the many rivers and bridges  that seduced his sensitive eye: his numerous paintings reveal a wealth of closely observed naturalistic detail.  Author Seymour Slive  was Professor of Fine Arts and director of the Harvard University art museums and his depth of knowledge of not only van Ruisdael but also of the other Dutch painters of this time gives him a depth of knowledge and grace of writing that makes this truly a book to not only enjoy visually but to read as well.<br /><br />This book coupled with Slive's other volume 'Jacob Van Ruisdael: A Complete Catalogue of His Paintings, Drawings, and Etchings' are the definitive tomes about Dutch landscape painting.  Though this book was intended as a catalogue to the traveling exhibition of van Ruisdael's paintings and drawings, it is truly the preeminent text for the libraries of all art lovers.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, October 05	2005-10-01
22104:US	52496677	R1P61ALGKU2T30	071484358X	780663961	Lawrence Alma-Tadema	Books	5	39	41	N	N	A Flowing and Finely Tuned View of Sir Lawrence Alma-Tadema	Rosemary J. Barrow seems to be having a terrific time writing about the controversial painter Sir Lawrence Alma-Tadema.  Perhaps not as scholarly a tome as the one by Russell Ash, this beautiful volume is graced with the publisher's decision of pairing apposing images of both watercolor and oil painting forms of many of Alma-Tadema's works.  The book is a successful pictorial essay.<br /><br />But it is the well-groomed good humor that Barrow uses to relate the pictorial puns and innuendoes Alma-Tadema subtly adorned his mythology-influenced subjects that makes this volume sing.  She has done her research so well that her writing is conversational, a fact that makes perusing this lovely volume even more of a joy.  Though Alma-Tadema's works are usually reviewed with a degree of scorn by art historians, here the truly lovely paintings are displayed and discussed with utmost respect - and with the &eacute;lan of descriptive terms that are as light and wispy as the flowing garments of the Romanesque players on the canvases of the fantasy-inspired painter.  The color reproductions and the layout of the book are up to the usual high standards set by publisher Phaidon.  This book is both a visual delight and a journey through Victoriana.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, October 05	2005-10-01
23514:US	52496677	RY6XF2A369KJZ	0300111363	521917607	The Perfect Medium: Photography and the Occult	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Gloriously Defying Logic and Embracing the Occult	THE PERFECT MEDIUM: Photography and the Occult is first a catalogue for an exhibition now titillating the public at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.  Hopefully this exhibition will travel: if this fine book/catalogue is any indication of the exciting realms the exhibition explores, it should be a popular success.<br /><br />For those who regularly visit channelers, mediums, spiritualists, or who follow tales and histories of the world of the occult then this volume of history and photographs will not be as shocking as it is for those less willing to suspend logic.  The photographs contained in this book trace auras, spirits, and phenomena dating form Victorian times to the 1930s.  It would appear that the advent of the camera proved to confirm the dalliances of the mediums who summoned the spirits of the departed for the eager (and willing to pay!) clients.  Photographs here show weird auras, shadows of beings, and phenomena not readily seen by the critical eye: are these the tomfoolery of the photographer manipulating photographic plates, staged bizarre frameworks that defy explanation outside the camera lens, or are these truly captured moments?  That is for the viewer and the fine writers to dissect.<br /><br />The latter portion of the  book samples photographic portraits of various mediums, at times alone and at times with their assembled clients.  One of particular interest is the medium Eugenie Picquart who was said to enter a trance and 'become' the voice and guise of Sarah Bernhardt and Mephistopheles!  Spectacular theatrics that glow with both humor and invention - at the expense of the clients!  The first spirit photographer, one William Mumler, concocted a photograph of Mary Todd Lincoln with the spirit of the deceased Abraham at her side. Such was the credibility of public in the PT Barnum age - and beyond.<br /><br />It is a book that opens the discussion of what is photographic art - representation or manipulation of an image - and if it is both (as we routinely see in galleries today), it is a powerful addition to the history of art making.  This is an entertaining, well-presented book of images only imagined by most.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, September 05it is both (as we routinely see in galleries today), it is a powerful addition to the history of art making.  This is an entertaining, well-presented book of images only imagined by most.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-30
25709:US	52496677	R2ERJH2OYK9NFA	3861873648	409178594	Rear View -C	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Le Grande  Derri&egrave;re	With all of the flack about male frontal nudity that pipes through the media (is the new ROME series on HBO pornographic?, how many major male stars have full nudity shots and what does that mean?, why does art not treat female nudity the same censorious way male nudity is treated?, etc), it is most refreshing to leaf through Steve Vaschon's fine collection REAR VIEW.  No problem with the derri&egrave;re here: it is the star!<br /><br />Vaschon juxtaposes his subjects with architecture, landscape, forms, light and shadow, all of which generally add to the postulate that 'bums' are simply worth including in photographs.  But actually by keeping such a low profile in the manner in which he photographs his models (each of whom has an exceptional specimen of derri&egrave;re!), he allows the muscle mass and flesh that compose this structure to be appreciated both as anatomy and like fine sculpture.  This is a well-produced book that might just be that perfect gift for friends who pose as liberated beings.  Nicely done.  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-29
26984:US	52496677	R2PFJQ04SHBROT	1929918690	760797436	You and Yours (American Poets Continuum)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Poems of Passion and Compassion From Very Open Eyes	\\"What countries may we/ sing into?/ What lines should we all/ be crossing?\\" Naomi Shihab Nye writes poems of grace and humor and wit and tension and ache and remembrance and longing - and of everyday life.  Such a sweep of huge ideas comes from her intelligent pen!  Living in San Antonio, Texas with her child encourages her to observe the fundamentals of living, of loving, of finding the beauty/spiritual in all things.  These poems of Part One of this extraordinary collection are about living.<br /><br />Part Two contains the poetry that speaks most clearly to this reader.  While she is always competent to address the darker side of all things in her poems of Part One, in this second body of work she turns her vigilant eye to the horrors of war, giving words to the overwhelming facts of tragedy, death, inequity, and all the unimaginables that escort war in the Middle East - no, in all wars. \\"There is no 'stray' bullet, sirs./ No bullet like a worried cat/ crouching under a bush,/ no half-hairless puppy bullet/ dodging midnight streets.  The bullet could not be a pecan/ plunking the tin roof,/ not hardly, no fluff of pollen/ on October's breath, no humble pebble at our feet....So don't gentle it, please....This bullet had no secret happy hopes,/ it was not singing to itself with eyes closed/ under the bridge.\\" Perhaps it is her Palestinian-American heritage that makes her insight into the ongoing elegy for the Middle East so poignant, or perhaps it is simply that she is a very fine poet, a seer able to paste together the minutiae of living each day with the epoch of facing war head on.  She has the gift and we are the better for it.  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-29
37258:US	52496677	R2A3LYVCD6TYOW	1587901110	227317187	A Spy in the Ruins	Books	5	6	6	N	N	'A Sea Change into Something Rich and Strange'	A SPY IN THE RUINS is at once an enigma, a threatening reading feat, a challenging intellectual excursion, and, in the end, one of the most satisfying reading experiences in many years.  Christopher Bernard has the gift of blending words, phrases, fragments, imagery, time lapses, free association thinking and a facility with the English language that is nothing short of extraordinary!<br /><br />No names here in this liquid prose, no signposts to jar the flow of the narrative/stream of consciousness, nothing to get in the way of simply absorbing some of the most eloquent, dire, ecstatic, devastating, and remarkably cogent writing imaginable.<br />Perhaps it is the fact that we as a nation are undergoing such shattering natural and unnatural disasters at this moment that makes Bernard's 'story' so exceedingly gripping. Perhaps.  But in ways never used before, Bernard conveys a catastrophic destruction of a city (not unlike Katrina's or Rita's venom) leaving behind a sole wanderer who is the 'spy' in these ruins.  Through his eyes and memory and suspended state of being he relives his life as it was, as it could have been, as he would have wanted it - finding bits and fragments of memory and metaphor to piece together that is now gone. Cosmos craving recreation out of chaos and throughout it all is a searing obsession with finding love in all its forms.<br /><br />Just when the reader thinks that this long volume of wildly imaginative thoughts and sentences and portions thereof are not meant to be anything but the exquisite poetry they are to read, the story line evolves and suddenly we know this lone man, feel his alienation, fly with his fantasies/delusions/memories/expectations, and a very clear story assembles  before our eyes.  That kind of literary magic is so rare, so very in the literary bloodline of TS Eliot, Beckett, Woolf, Stein, Joyce, Proust that the book fairly shakes.<br /><br />Christopher Bernard was an unknown name to me before A SPY IN THE RUINS  but  will be waiting to see if he can maintain this level of exceptional writing in his next book.  Though were his the only novel he were to write, it is so fine that it would be enough.  Highly recommended for all readers who love challenges, creativity, thinking, visceral and cerebral involvement in literature.  A Magnum Opus to be read and then read again.  Grady Harp, September 05if he can maintain this level of exceptional writing in his next book.  Though were his the only novel he were to write, it is so fine that it would be enough.  Highly recommended for all readers who love challenges, creativity, thinking, visceral and cerebral involvement in literature.  A Magnum Opus to be read and then read again.  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-23
39605:US	52496677	R2U4ZZR0C7VZ72	0316011770	454028739	The Historian	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A Very Long Song.......	Elizabeth Kostova is a fine writer.  That this is her first novel is amazing in that it has so many excellent aspects that are usually discovered more slowly in novels subsequent to number one.  For that she deserves much applause.  She knows how to build a story, populate the pages with a great variety of characters, pace the work so that the reader is encouraged to proceed through the plot line, and she obviously has done considerable research on the Dracula myth, Eastern Europe, Istanbul, Paris, etc etc etc.  So why only the four stars?<br /><br />For starters, this novel is printed in a typeface of such small point/font that reading the tiny print is laborious: when it comes to the italicized portions (of which there are MANY) the print is almost illegibly small.  Couple this with the physical fault that the heavy tome is already almost 700 pages long and groping through this massive volume builds muscle - and requires a lot of patience.<br /><br />Perhaps the overused subject matter of yet another Dracula inspired novel hinders, but the book remains on the bestseller lists across the country so obviously people never tire of the same old stories.  Kostova does lead us through this interminable maze of a book with comfortable tour guides (main characters that fill everyone's need to get to know father, daughter, boyfriend, femme fatale, surprise motherhood, bad guys, saints, etc).  But as if these multiple constants weren't sufficient she creates a cast of thousands in many different countries, leaving some barely outlined and other belabored beyond tolerance.<br /><br />But Elizabeth Kostova writes well.  Technically there are few flaws for a first novel.  Her manner of telling - bouncing back and forth between daughter telling and father telling - requires some adjustment as there are no particular signpost breaks between the two renditions of the story.  One 'flaw' might be the overuse (?overkill?) of letters, pages-long epistles from various sources that spread (in tiny italic print!) over pages and pages and feel as though they were placed in the story just to keep the weary reader aware of the story - sort of the role the Three Norns play in Wagner's \\"G&ouml;tterd&auml;mmerung\\": 'just in case you're lost, let me reiterate the whole story to date'.<br /><br />THE HISTORIAN is a book everyone seems to love and doubtless the Hollywood gaggle has optioned it for yet another sci-fi/thriller/'like the Da Vinci Code' extravaganza.  For this reader I would have preferred an abridged, more taut, less verbiage form of a story that is all too familiar in the first place.  But I'm sure this is a minority report. And Elizabeth Kostova is a fine writer. Grady Harp, September 05at spread (in tiny italic print!) over pages and pages and feel as though they were placed in the story just to keep the weary reader aware of the story - sort of the role the Three Norns play in Wagner's \\"Gtterdmmerung\\": 'just in case you're lost, let me reiterate the whole story to date'. <br /> <br />THE HISTORIAN is a book everyone seems to love and doubtless the Hollywood gaggle has optioned it for yet another sci-fi/thriller/'like the Da Vinci Code' extravaganza.  For this reader I would have preferred an abridged, more taut, less verbiage form of a story that is all too familiar in the first place.  But I'm sure this is a minority report. And Elizabeth Kostova is a fine writer. Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-22
43434:US	52496677	RI7S5D0SUUMI3	1932586296	830117293	The Toonies Invade Silicon Valley	Books	4	2	3	N	N	21st Century Young People's Story Has Much More Than A Fine Tale!	Betty Dravis is a sensitive writer, one who has observed the idiosyncrasies of today's youth and has found a manner to bring her fine-honed journalistic writing skills to the literary table.  In a book directed towards the age 8 - 13 readership, Dravis has taken all the current obsessions (computers, blogs, emails, anime, fantasy, and the preoccupation with fractured families), aligned these into a storyline that is entertaining and well designed, interspersed some drawings/illustrations by the her granddaughter Kristy Soza Ardizzone, and in the end has captured the imagination of children 'of all ages' while gently being supportive of family values.<br /><br />Based on the concept that computer cartoon figures created by imaginative kids, whose concerns with their home and school lives encourage them to escape into the safety of the computer,  can come to life - by stepping out of the computer screen and relating to their creators as innovative folk - Dravis has created a fable of good and evil in the tradition of Aesop but very much grounded in the language and imagery of today.  She has the gift to create three dimensional 'real people' while retaining the imagination of transferring personalities to 'computer generated people', a trait that makes her story  fine enough for anyone to suspend belief for the duration of the book.<br /><br />But the tender aspect of this little foray into children's literature is Dravis ability to say a lot about our current society problems such as broken homes, parent/child engagements, that omnipresent monster of corporate greed that threatens just about every aspect of our lives, and communication in general. And while Dravis has focused on a make-believe tale, she grounds her credibility for youngsters by placing the story appropriately in Silicon Valley, the birthplace of computer obsession,  with specific sited as backgrounds for her action.<br /><br />This is a fine tale for parents to give their youngsters: my recommendation would be to take the pleasure of reading it first before passing it on in a shared gesture of love and respect. Grady Harp. September 05endation would be to take the pleasure of reading it first before passing it on in a shared gesture of love and respect. Grady Harp. September 05	2005-09-20
46596:US	52496677	R3F0631941RBV1	1932586334	754676143	Did Lizzie Borden Axe For It?	Books	4	5	9	N	N	An Interesting and Well Researched Book Looking for an Audience	David Rehak has proved that he is a fine writer as in his 'Crippled Dreams', an historically influenced novel that kept his readers in suspense and character evolvement.  In his most recent (and unfortunately poorly titled DID LIZZIE BORDEN AXE FOR IT?) foray into historical writing he succeeds in presenting thorough information about all aspects of the Borden double murder in 1892 in Fall River, MA, admits to his reader that he has a long obsession with the case, and then seems to find it difficult to develop a format for his obviously rich research project.<br /><br />The book layout is the confusing aspect of this venture.  Filled with copious photographs of all  of the 'characters' of his drama and buildings in Fall River then and now, maps, documents, letters, drawings, and other paraphernalia, this little volume feels more like a journalist's scrapbook or police file redolent of the current infatuation with CSI (Crime Scene Investigation) so popular on television.  There is very little in the way of novel here: there is a lot of reportage.<br /><br />Given this odd format this book has more well researched information than most other books on Lizzie Borden's famous trial.  Rehak gives us lists of exact chronological and hourly events on the day of the murder of Abby and Andrew Borden and then proceeds to offer similar lists as to the pros and cons of the argument of whether Lizzie was guilty or innocent.  Added to this concise data is extensive information of the evidence (or lack thereof) that resulted in Lizzie's acquittal.  Then Rehak follows Lizzie's post-trial life with interesting data about her psychological nature, her possible paramour in actress Nance O'Neill, and then walks us through the development of the Lizzie Borden myths that have resulted in poems, plays, novels, ballets, operas, etc.  He offers photographs of the possible murder weapon never presented as evidence in the trial, ruminations on all of the possible alternative perpetrators discussed through history since the trial, Lizzie's inheritance and demise - all in the most casual and informative way.<br /><br />In the end it seems as though David Rehak wanted to put everything he discovered in his years of research on Lizzie Borden into one volume and in doing so he does offer an immensely readable, entertaining, funny at times, and well documented step up to the podium where he asks the reader \\" Did she really do it?\\".  A great novel this is not - and to be fair I don't think that is what Rehak had in mind.  But a fascinating compendium of all of the data surrounding the fabled nursery rhyme \\"Lizzie Borden took an axe and gave....\\" this is.  Despite the readers' prejudices on the events of the case, Rehak offers a sound and well written survey of an 'unresolved' murder mystery.  Grady Harp, September 05istory since the trial, Lizzie's inheritance and demise - all in the most casual and informative way.    In the end it seems as though David Rehak wanted to put everything he discovered in his years of research on Lizzie Borden into one volume and in doing so he does offer an immensely readable, entertaining, funny at times, and well documented step up to the podium where he asks the reader \\" Did she really do it?\\".  A great novel this is not - and to be fair I don't think that is what Rehak had in mind.  But a fascinating compendium of all of the data surrounding the fabled nursery rhyme \\"Lizzie Borden took an axe and gave....\\" this is.  Despite the readers' prejudices on the events of the case, Rehak offers a sound and well written survey of an 'unresolved' murder mystery.  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-19
47645:US	52496677	R3EVDCBJKP8U91	0915924684	932839986	Illuminations: Great Writers on Writing	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Inspiration and Illumination from the Source	The joy of reading is finding words that express our joys, our fears, our anxieties, our longings, and our quest for portals of exit from the world, if even for ony the short time spent between the two covers of a book.  How often have we closed a book and wondered in awe just how the creators of that writing arrived at the inspiration and the choice of subject and manner of expression, and the ability to engage our attention and minds and fantasies?<br /><br />'ILLUMINATIONS: Great Writers on Writing' provides one of the most fascinating surveys of a wide variety of writers' meditations and musings ever published.  In a brief 130 pages editors Christina Davis and Christopher Edgar have provided rare photographs and succinct thoughts from 55 writers ranging in time from Dante Alighieri to the present.  Some of these writers are known to everyone, others to a smaller audience, yet each of them has enlightening statements about the art of and reason for writing.<br /><br />Some of the writers included are Nabokov, Neruda, Hemingway, Borges, Emily Dickinson, Sylvia Plath, Poe, Rilke, Frank O'Hara, Eudora Welty, Oscar Wilde, Conrad, Calvino, Virginia Woolf, Henry James, Faulkner William Carlos Williams - and that is only a sampling.  To read personal thoughts by these artists while seeing images of them previously little known to the public is indeed a treasure.  Example: Chinua Achebe writes \\"Given the great gulf between being and knowing, between his essence and existence, man has no choice really but to make and believe in some fiction or other. .... One thing that worries one above all else in the frenetic materialism that pervades our contemporary life is that as a species we may be losing the Open Sesame to the 'mundo' of fiction - that ability to say 'Let's pretend' like grace before our act...and yet to draw from this insubstantial pageant essential insights and wisdom for making our way in the real world\\".<br /><br />This is not only an important and fascinating book for all readers, it is a magnum opus for writers at every stage in their careers.  Clearly this is one of the most hallowed books released in many years.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, September 05inating book for all readers, it is a magnum opus for writers at every stage in their careers.  Clearly this is one of the most hallowed books released in many years.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-18
48903:US	52496677	R3HUBKMRT8BTPJ	0060832800	594916080	Is It a Choice? Answers to the Most Frequently Asked Questions About Gay & Lesbian People, Third Edition	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Source Book to Put an End to Myths and Prejudices: Healthy Information	This is the third edition of Eric Marcus' \\"IS IT A CHOICE: Answers to the Most Frequently Asked Questions About Gay and Lesbian People\\" and in revising his original 1990s publication he has added some welcome, warm humor and finer perspective, features that make this little book an invaluable help to individual, families and friends who are experiencing discovery of someone 'coming out of the closet'.<br /><br />Much has changed in the past decade toward wider public understanding of gay, lesbian, transgender and bisexual people: important films with major stars portraying gay people in positive light; popular television shows such as 'Will and Grace', 'The L Word', 'Queer as Folk', 'Queer Eye for the Straight Guy'; spokesmen and comedians/comediennes like Ellen DeGenneres, Margaret Cho, Kate Clinton etc; important novelists such as Colm Toibin, Michael Cunningham, Jeffrey Eugenides - all of these have opened doors to the public to examine gay life and its spectrum.  But when the encounter becomes personal, there are still the myriad questions that many are simply afraid to ask.<br /><br />Marcus tackles these embarrassing questions head on and with a fine sense of healthy normalcy.  Questions range from the tough ones (what makes people gay - is it illness, can it be cured, how do you tell, what are the indicators?) to the often heard but silly ones as to whether all gay men love opera and hate sports and do all lesbians want to appear to be men, et cetera ad infinitum.  Yes, to some the questions seem superficial - and thank goodness at last they do!  But to others less informed and more threatened by the notion of gay life this book is most helpful.  No preaching or politicking here, just common sense approaches to quasi-delicate issues.<br /><br />Would that school libraries would stock this book on shelves for those students who are coping with 'gay' either within themselves or with barely  closeted friends.  And for husbands and wives who discover their spouses are lesbian or gay, mothers and fathers who don't have a clue how to broach the subject with their suspected child.  Marcus has a terrific sense of humor and writes well, but he also is a committed 'sociologist' who has taken the time to provide not only answers to the obvious questions, but also provides richly detailed resources in the appendices of this book that serve as further information and support guides.<br /><br />And other than that, this is also a fun book to read - no matter your inclination!  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, September 05spouses are lesbian or gay, mothers and fathers who don't have a clue how to broach the subject with their suspected child.  Marcus has a terrific sense of humor and writes well, but he also is a committed 'sociologist' who has taken the time to provide not only answers to the obvious questions, but also provides richly detailed resources in the appendices of this book that serve as further information and support guides. <br /> <br />And other than that, this is also a fun book to read - no matter your inclination!  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-17
50925:US	52496677	RS1Z5BJTQ5YR3	030010720X	52948466	Vincent Van Gogh: The Drawings (Metropolitan Museum of Art Series)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	"Drawing is the root of everything." Vincent Van Gogh	This large, heavy catalogue (almost 400 pages) is probably the definitive volume on the drawings of Vincent Van Gogh.  It was complied jointly by the Van Gogh Musuem, Amsterdam and the Metropolitan Museum in New York.  While there are in excess of 100 drawings (in pen and ink, graphite, chalk, charcoal, and watercolor), the bulk of this catalogue is devoted to scholarship of the written kind.  And what a fine and informative series of extended essays are here!<br /><br />COLTA IVES and SUSAN ALYSON STEIN from the Metropolitan Museum contribute elegant essays but the more quirky information about this strange but magnificent artist can be found in the contributions from  SJRAAR VAN HEUGTEN and MARIJE VELLEKOOP of the Van Gogh Museum.  One would not think that an artist of Van Gogh's nature, one who painted more with the palette knife than the brush and poured more energy and thick paint into his canvases that seem as though they are completely spontaneous - no one would imagine that he was a man who valued drawings as precursors for his finished art.  But here in fine detail (at times far more than you'd ever want to know!) the writers discuss this affinity for drawing, even demonstrating the drawing to painting results as excellent examples.<br /><br />We must wait a bit to see the actual exhibition for which this catalogue was devised to see if the drawings stand up as well on museum walls as they do in this volume.  This is definitely a book for those addicted to Van Gogh's output and history.  It is a fine though lengthy read.  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-16
52290:US	52496677	R3AL63L10MZCBD	0811215962	399605929	Unrecounted (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	WG Sebald in the Guise of a Poet	UNRECOUNTED is a collaborative work by the deceased and sorely missed WG Sebald and his life long artist friend Jan Peter Tripp. Together they blocked 33 poems and 33 lithographs on apposing pages that were meant to create a sense of communication. In Sebald's words \\"The longer I look at the pictures of Jan Peter Tripp, the better I understand that behind the illusions of the surface, a dread-inspiring depth is concealed. It is the metaphysical lining of reality, so to speak.\\"<br /><br />As a devoted reader of all of Sebald's output I was eagerly looking forward to yet another posthumous document from this astonishingly fine writer.  What is in this handsome volume is not really 'poetry' but rather brief haiku-like musings.  Not that they aren't lovely, it is just that they are not up to the challenging standards of his novels.  Still one is left with a satisfied feeling having read this (sideways printed) book of thoughts.  The art of Tripp is stunning - eyes of famous writers and thinkers.  In the end, in Sebald's own critical self examination, these works are \\"time lost, the pain of remembering, and the figure of death\\".  As such, they gain more meaning.  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-15
54475:US	52496677	R2CTBRJHERLTQY	159372019X	116925828	Writers: Photographs	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Photographer's Glimpse into the Creativity of Writers	A reader's delight, photographer Nancy Crampton has captured the faces (and personalities) of over one hundred of our most prominent writers and poets in this outstanding monograph.  Following an introduction of elegant simplicity by Mark Strand, Crampton presents a seamless flow of the artists whose words have filled our eyes and minds, but somehow have eluded our visual images of the creators.  While most books by the subjects surveyed include a 'jacket photo', those semblances are usually posed and formal and tell us little about the writer.<br /><br />Crampton goes 'into the wild' and captures her subjects in studios, out of doors, in public places - any place she finds conducive to the comfort of the subject.  These magnificent duotones are not only technically superb as photographic portraits; they convey much of the 'mystery' of the artists.  WH Auden is captured in closeup taking a drag on his ubiquitous cigarette; James Baldwin in his white djellaba gazes straight into our eyes from France; Eudora Welty sits graciously in her overstuffed armchair in Jackson, Mississippi; Gabriel Garcia Marquez smiles, eye glasses in hand, in Mexico City; John Cheever sits in solitude but for his dog on the steps in New York; and Susan Sontag, Jorge Luis Borges, Anne Sexton, Norman Mailer, Alfred Kazin, Maurice Sendak, Joseph Brodsky, Lorrie Moore, Tom Stoppard, Chinua Achebe, Ian McEwan, Jonathan Franzen - the list seems endless - all give Crampton their moment of cooperation.<br /><br />This is a valuable addition to the library of every avid reader.  Meet the faces and images of your favorite writers, be challenged by faces you may not know, and enjoy this captured bit of literary history.  Very Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-14
55635:US	52496677	R1A8K6TTDM5Q5Z	0974575046	34177472	Christ: The Gospel of Matthew Beautifully Designed for the Internet Age	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Visually Stunning Designer Bible: Part I The Book of Matthew	In the controversial and very fine book 'Goodbye Gutenberg: How a Bronx Teacher Defied 500 Years of Tradition and Launched an Astonishing Renaissance' Valerie Kirschenbaum took a leaping step toward exhuming illuminated manuscripts in the language of contemporary modalities to introduce a new way to read, to learn, to enjoy books.  Now Valerie Kirschenbaum AKA Ruth Rimm has created the first in a series of books, each of which will bring the New Testament of the King James Version of the Bible to the attention of those people whose visual training, she feels, needs the addition of the graphic to make the historic document relevant - or at least accessible - to the masses who find the black and white, densely packed language of the usual bibles unapproachable.<br /><br />She has wisely teamed with a very fine artist - Alejandra Vernon, whose solid reputation is based on her skills with collage and paint and enormously sensitive imagination - to create what is now a lushly colorful, immediately accessible version of the Gospel of Matthew (and incidentally including the book of Ruth).  The design incorporates not only Vernon's fine figurative narratives but adds the 'gimmicks' of computer screens, cell phones, credit cards, keypad buttons, etc to make the flow like a computer game.  Does this enhance the written word?  That is up to the reader to decide.  Doubtless there will be purists who believe this 'updating' cheapens the 'sacred', but every art form has its detractors.  For this reader the design does become a bit overwhelming and distracting at times, bordering on questionable taste, but those flaws are more than compensated by the lovely artwork of Alejandra Vernon, an artist who understands illustration - a field unto itself - as well as art.<br /><br />There is a chapter written by Valerie RUTH Kirschenbaum RIMM that relates her conversion from Judaism to Christianity of the evangelical form that, while informing the reader of the history of 'why the Bible in this form', is a bit overbearing.  She made her points about the visual book format in her original book, making this addendum to her first Designer Bible volume seem self serving and preachy.  But one must give RIMM credit for her own messianic vision.  This form of the bible may just find an audience and the results may be part of the re-examination of  religion around the world.<br /><br />Technically the book is well made, on fine paper, with excellent color reproductions.  The cover is a bit of hard sell tactics (the title is '.Christ' - read as 'dot Christ' - and along with a cell phone and \\"OPEN\\" key and illustrated toolbar), but pause long enough to get into the concept and you'll probably find yourself actually reading Matthew for the first time!  Grady Harp, September 05ble in this form', is a bit overbearing.  She made her points about the visual book format in her original book, making this addendum to her first Designer Bible volume seem self serving and preachy.  But one must give RIMM credit for her own messianic vision.  This form of the bible may just find an audience and the results may be part of the re-examination of  religion around the world.   <br /> <br />Technically the book is well made, on fine paper, with excellent color reproductions.  The cover is a bit of hard sell tactics (the title is '.Christ' - read as 'dot Christ' - and along with a cell phone and \\"OPEN\\" key and illustrated toolbar), but pause long enough to get into the concept and you'll probably find yourself actually reading Matthew for the first time!  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-14
57427:US	52496677	R2HXFOKWWDMFD0	1555974287	289690384	Collected Poems	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Simplicity	Jane Kenyon has become a posthumous icon of a poet.  Much of her public awareness is due to the incredible devotion to her and her gifts as a writer by her husband, fellow poet and writer Donald Hall. Their 23-year marriage will doubtless go down in literary history as one of the more mutually inspiring relationships in poetry.  Their life in New England didn't end with Jane Kenyon's death from leukemia in 1995 at age 47: Donald Hall has memorialized her rare gifts in posthumous publication s of her works. In his words 'With rare exceptions, we remained aware of each other's feelings. It took me half my life, more than half, to discover with Jane's guidance that two people could live together and remain kind.'<br /><br />Jane Kenyon's poems celebrate the plain things our eyes edit if we diminish our sensitivity.  She makes us aware of the common parcels of beauty that fill the world, that elevate the spirit.  Her own episodes of depression, fought valiantly through periods of failed bone marrow transplant, in response to her husband's encounter with colon cancer - all can be traced to certain passages, but ever with the ability to see light from the coming horizon.  She examines the plain, avoids trite emotion, and reveals the sanctity of each atom our minds can embrace if we remain always receptive.<br /><br />This is a magnificent book of fine poetry.  It is exquisitely written: it is inspirational.  Highly recommended. Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-13
57495:US	52496677	R334P1KC547WNA	1589395115	273142803	Quest of the Seal Bearers Book 1: The Warriors Return	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Author's Enthusiasm is Contagious and Almost Makes this a Good Read	AWG Coleman must be a whirling dervish of a person: his writing spins around like a dirt bike out of control, but at the center of his book are enough good ideas that there must be a fairly solid talent present.<br /><br />Spoiler: this reviewer has a low threshold of tolerance for science fiction, whether that be on the written page or the movie screen or wherever it arises to alter reality.  It is not the 'fiction' part or the 'science' part that is off-putting.  It is the need to make fantastical things seem real in the context of the story that is problematic.<br /><br />The storyline for QUEST OF THE SEAL BEARERS BOOK is best read in Amazon.com's rather succinct distillation on the title page.  Planets against planets and teenagers against villains all swirl in endless names and confusing syntax and that is where the mind wanders.  Coleman has passages where his skills as a writer surface and one wishes those pages were less brief and infrequent.  This book needs a sense of architecture and an occasional briefing of who is who just to keep things straight.  Given that, the next volume in this projected series might be more successful.<br /><br />There is an audience for Coleman's work and it probably includes younger readers, folks who enjoy video games, people who still flock to the latest sci-fi movies (they always seem to do well).  So this reviewer is at a mindset disadvantage.  But then that mindset also gives the opportunity to be a bit more dissecting in search of the good parts.  And rest assured, there ARE good parts to this book.  A suggestion - why not make the next book something other than sci-fi?....Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-13
57607:US	52496677	R3VHFO1WP8NW0D	0374175691	408873824	Into It: Poems	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Slim Volume That Speaks Loudly	The tragedy of September 11, 2001 ignited fear in all of us, the unexpected, the sudden change, the destruction of passivity, and the mourning and, gradually, the healing.  Each of the arts has responded to this event in ways that allow tremulous minds to find some semblance of organization out of the chaos: John Adams' composition 'On the Transmigration of Souls' is one example of how artists find ways to make the unbelievable credible, restoring the ability to continue living.<br /><br />Among the poets to respond to 9/11 is Lawrence Joseph who in this slim volume of 61 pages helps us as readers to find the path back to reality.  It is as though Joseph first paused at the possibilities of terrorism, witnessed it first hand, and then walked among the rubble to find the cores of each of these strong poems to cry out against societal blindness, political shambles,  views of the universe scrambled by that fateful event, and little picas of resilience.  He doesn't leave the reader dangling with cosmic angst and anxiety, but instead ends up offering themes of hope.  'Have I mentioned my grandmother/my father's mother, who died long ago/ but who visits me in dreams?/ It's to her, mostly, I owe/ the feeling that, in cases of need,/ those transfigured in eternal love help us/ certainly with eternal,/ and, perhaps, also, with temporal gifts;/ that, in eternal love, all is gratis - / all that comes from eternal love/ is gratis.'<br /><br />This is poetry for healing and for reading repeatedly.  Lawrence Joseph has written more than just his fourth volume of fine poems: he has provided a path to Gilead.  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-13
62531:US	52496677	R16D149FB75KCM	0975599518	192748477	Natural Cures "They" Don't Want You to Know about	Books	1	8	14	N	N	Force Feeding a  Goose for Foie Gras	Eric Hoffer's 'The True Believer' has bred another proponent: Kevin Trudeau has emerged as a 'savior to mankind' who unknowingly suffers from the evils of corporate greed in the consumption of food products on supermarket shelves.  What he brings to the attention of the reader is to beware of the chemical additives used to preserve food for longer shelf life, but what he relentlessly preaches is that the government and big business are thus setting us up for future disease.  If you boil down his reliable points to a paragraph he is simply stating what many already know: eat sensibly, exercise, maintain fluid intake, and avoid junk food and you will notice better health.<br /><br />Where Trudeau treads into treacherous waters, waters he muddies with one of the worst writing techniques published, is his preaching about going to extremes: eat only organic fruits and vegetables, never touch vitamin and mineral supplements, do routine colon cleansing, liver cleansing, fast for days, and, most important, invest your money in his massive 'self help media products'.  Yes, it is a good thing to think about the foods we eat and strive for a healthy life style, yet his approach to the extremes of his angry liturgy is comparable to the French force feeding geese by grinding corn down their gullets to fatten their livers which when slaughtered result in richer sources of foie gras.  The basic information in this book is good and could have been reduce to a little health foods store pamphlet, Trudeau repeats his few diatribes ad infinitum and loses the intelligent reader's attention by a third of the way through the book.  The zinger is that he is creating one of those corporate media empires he so disdains!  Avoid his website like the plague or at least beware!  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-10
63726:US	52496677	R1ZAM2QLVESA92	0876545827	840822090	Bouguereau	Books	5	10	12	N	N	In a World of his Own	Adolphe-William Bouguereau (1825-1905) is in many ways the French equivalent of the British Victorian class of figurative painters - Lawrence Alma Tadema, Lord Leighton, JW Waterhouse - and had he lived in England rather than in the Impressionist laden France, he would be much better known today.  Not that Bouguereau is unfamiliar to collectors and museums: in his time his portraits and luxurious paintings of shepherdesses and mythological creatures in a world of eternal beauty were popular and were added to important collections.  It is only now with the new respect for the figure in painting that his name is becoming more recognizable.<br /><br />Fronia E. Wissman has written a concise and illuminating text for this monograph and her style of exposition matches her subject.  The book is filled with magnificent illustrations of Bouguereau's paintings with details and full-scale works allowed the prestige of excellent color reproductions.  This is a fine monograph and one that belongs in the libraries of collectors and art historians who remain fascinated with the fin de si&egrave;cle schools of painting.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-09
65904:US	52496677	R24A6BIUMU65CE	0805076026	806037544	Night Draws Near: Iraq's People in the Shadow of America's War	Books	5	92	97	N	N	And this is how the people in Baghdad feel....	Anthony Shadid is a brilliant Pulitzer Prize winning journalist who has been covering the Iraq conflict since its beginning.  And while much of his reportage of this tragically misguided effort on the part of the US to 'spread democracy around the globe' has either knowingly or unknowingly to us been from his pen (he writes for the Washington Post), here in this book he adds those elements of the war that have been either censored or edited so that at last we have an intelligent observer's report of what has happened.  This is a story that will disturb and enlighten.<br /><br />Shadid divides his book NIGHT DRAWS NEAR: IRAQ'S PEOPLE IN THE SHADOW OF AMERICA'S WAR into five sections.  In the first section he surfaces the anxious dread of a people under the dictatorship of Saddam Hussein.  In the second he mirrors the people's terror of the attacks by the American troops with the bombings of precious places as well as homes.  In the third section he addresses that part of calamity that follows calamity - the criminal looting and destruction of museums and mosques and public facilities that most Iraqis viewed with embarrassed disgust.  The fourth section raises the curtain on the debased hopes of a people told they were being liberated while instead they were erratically captured, questioned, disenfranchised and were deprived of the basic amenities of living.  The final section studies the insurgency, the terrifying extremes to which the Iraqis have embraced such as suicide bombings, retaliation, guerilla warfare - all of those ends to which these people have been thrust as a means to regain dignity and identity.<br /><br />Shadid has been there, has interviewed countless Iraqis, and has written a book that is jarring and shocking and insightful. What drives a man, woman  or child to become a 'martyr'?  Shadid talks with the families of these martyrs in an attempt to understand how these people have the courage to stand against the seemingly insurmountable odds of an army of Americans.  This is a philosophy wholly foreign to us and it is well to remember that the writer is a Lebanese American, born in Oklahoma,  fluent in Arabic and Arabic culture: Shadid is an informed reporter and writer and humanist.<br /><br />Though unfortunately America's War on Iraq is not over, this brilliantly written book should be required reading for all of us.  It is only when we have both sides of the picture of a conflict that we can begin to analyze our country's position and hopefully urge a rapid end to the Iraq error, a mirror of the Vietnam error.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, September 05an army of Americans.   This is a philosophy wholly foreign to us and it is well to remember that the writer is a Lebanese American, born in Oklahoma,  fluent in Arabic and Arabic culture: Shadid is an informed reporter and writer and humanist. <br /> <br />Though unfortunately America's War on Iraq is not over, this brilliantly written book should be required reading for all of us.  It is only when we have both sides of the picture of a conflict that we can begin to analyze our country's position and hopefully urge a rapid end to the Iraq error, a mirror of the Vietnam error.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, September 05  <br />	2005-09-08
68671:US	52496677	R2Y8QTSJSFIBLR	0300104154	870304807	Alexandria: City of Memory	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The Compleat History of the Mysterious City of Alexandria	Michael Haag has taken on a challenge few historians would accept: he has recreated a solid history of a city shrouded in mystery since its inception or formation by Alexander the Great.  And while much is known about Alexandria through novels and movies and war ruminations and social epithets and other sources that border on mythology, this amazingly fascinating city has undergone so many changes since Alexander's time, each new set of inhabitants has destroyed the remnants of the previous owners, leaving us with only isolated antiquities and memories as passed on by word of mouth and fleeting letters.  The occupations by the Greeks, the Romans, the Arabs, the Egyptians, the Italians and the Jews have smoldered in a cauldron of secrecy until the present.<br /><br />Haag takes us by the hand and the head and accompanies us on this myriad excursion of exploration of ALEXANDRIA: CITY OF MEMORY by wisely emphasizing the writings of three of our greatest artists - Constantine Cavafy, Lawrence Durrell (of the famous 'Alexandria Quartet') and E.M. Forster (best known for his novels including 'Howard's End').  It is primarily through the eyes of these exciting writers that Haag has gathered information from their own novels and poems, interviews, letters, and articles about these famous inhabitants of Alexandria who from before World War I through World War II documented the romance of the city as well as the intense social and political life that nurtured the cosmopolitan importance of this amazing place.<br /><br />Haag is at his best when he is relying on the writings  from these three men, documents which reveal the wide range of sexuality so compatible with the city (Cavafy and Forster are each discussed extensively regarding their same sex lifestyles and confidantes, and Durrell is outlined by the several wives and mistresses he had).  Weaving these men's lives and influences through the changing governments and attitudes of the city and its populace makes for fascinating reading.<br /><br />When Haag ventures into the lives of the purely political and commercial giants of the city through the years, the writing becomes less interesting, though equally informative.  In the end, while there are many pages of information that merely begin to slow the reader's concentration and interest, ALEXANDRIA: CITY OF MEMORY is a superb book of history and biography of a place that has heretofore eluded scholars. An additional positive aspect is Haag's use of many photographs of the city from all eras.  Recommended for the patient but inquisitive reader. Grady Harp, September 05scinating reading. <br /> <br />When Haag ventures into the lives of the purely political and commercial giants of the city through the years, the writing becomes less interesting, though equally informative.  In the end, while there are many pages of information that merely begin to slow the reader's concentration and interest, ALEXANDRIA: CITY OF MEMORY is a superb book of history and biography of a place that has heretofore eluded scholars. An additional positive aspect is Haag's use of many photographs of the city from all eras.  Recommended for the patient but inquisitive reader. Grady Harp, September 05 <br /> <br />	2005-09-07
69208:US	52496677	R2WAILV49UEFUM	0714829579	64198390	The Art of Lord Leighton	Books	5	26	29	N	N	One Grand Painter: A Victorian Icon	Lord Frederic Leighton stands at the top of the pinnacle of British art of the late nineteenth century.  Though his images of dramatic, cloaked figures are easily recognizable, few art collectors or even museum visitors recognize the name of Lord Leighton.  Now, with the resurgence of interest in this school of painting his name will certainly become more of a household word.<br /><br />This slim though fine monograph is strong on images and less successful on information: Christopher Newell is a fine writer, he just wasn't given enough space to tell us much about the artist.  Divided into sections - 'Outsider 1855 - 1864', 'Academician 1864 - 1878', and 'President of the Royal Academy 1878 - 1896' - Newell outlines the rise of this figurative artist and gives some insights as to his subject matter and influences.<br /><br />But the beauty of this book is in the fine reproductions of his dramatic, grand, elaborate renderings of both historic and literary subjects.  A bit on the kitsch side? Yes, but that was part of the Grand Victorian tradition.  The paintings may be saccharine but oh, they are lovely to look at!  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-07
69664:US	52496677	RN9ZTZRDJJIUH	3899850793	801256411	Sculpture/Escultura: Romanesque, Gothic, Renaissance, Baroque/Renacimiento, Barroco, Romanico, Gotico (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Traveler's Art Reference - Whether Actual or Armchair!	SCULPTURE/ESCULTURA is a hand size/pocket size book by Uwe Geese that covers the span of European sculpture from the Romanesque period through the Gothic, Renaissance, and Baroque periods.  The narration is kept succinct, giving adequate but not effusive descriptions of each period. And while this commentary by Geese enhances the pleasure of this little book, it is the magnificent photography by Achim Bednorz that makes this one of the best companions for the appreciation and study of sculpture from these eras.<br /><br />Bednorz has an uncanny eye for placing each sculpture discussed in situ, photographing not only the building or wall or room housing the particular sculpture, but also providing overall photos of the environment in which the sculpture is housed.  For instance, particular works in cathedrals are first shown in context with the home cathedral from many angles and with an eye for creating the drama of the work as it must have been in its original time. Then comes the actual work, photographed from many angles showing many details. This is some of the finest art photography to enhance a resource book available.<br /><br />Whether the reader needs a easily portable guide to accompany actual visits to the works discussed and featured in this little book, or a handy and concise but elegant reference book for the library, this small in size but large in content book is highly recommended.  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-07
76426:US	52496677	R1DUMS0ZSN04RP	0899511074	661160203	First Seen: Portraits of the World's Peoples, 1840-1880	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Beginnings of Photography and the Paramount Importance of Subject	FIRST SEEN is a brilliant traveling museum exhibition currently ensconced at the Santa Barbara Museum of Art, an important collection of 250 photographs from the Wilson Centre for Photography in London accompanied by this magnificent catalogue by Kathleen Stewart Howe.  This is a museum catalogue that is the equal to any book on photography on the market, not only because of the importance of the concept of the exhibition, but also because of the insightful narrative by Howe that leads us through the earliest forty years of the now prominent art form of photography.<br /><br />The Portraits of the World's Peoples are not exactly superior art works technically, but the impact of the subject matter is compelling.  Based of the photographs of mostly unknown photographers, these daguerreotypes (an early form of capturing images on light absorptive material that required enormous patience on the part of the sitter) are of people from every continent of the globe.  They include wondrous profiles of American Indians, hooded monks, Victorian families complete with slaves, aborigines, the hairy people of Burma, Japanese ladies - many of the subjects could be replicas of sideshow participants were it not for the fact that they are compliant sitters for nascent photographers who hold them in great respect for their station and patience.<br /><br />The result of this exhibition and catalogue is a reflection of life approaching 200 years ago: people in the now perceived primitive form are actually from a relatively recent past!  The other phenomenon generated by this catalogue is an appreciation of an art form and its development to the present stage of highly scientific engineering.  The power is in the faces and these faces will haunt you long after seeing the installation or the first reading of the magnificent book.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-03
76548:US	52496677	R39CP8655OIA1O	0151012148	323243870	My Noiseless Entourage: Poems	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Simic's Homage to Things that Go Unnoticed	Charles Simic is a poet, yes, but he is more than that highest compliment in literary circles. Simic is a visionary because he is in tune with the atoms and microns that float through our atmosphere, either discarded or simply ignored, or worse, never noticed by us, the usual beings.  He manages is so few terse words to nudge us into awareness.<br /><br />'Extraordinary efforts are being made<br /><br />To hide things from us, my friend.<br /><br />Some stay up into the wee hours<br /><br />To search their souls.<br /><br />Others undress each other in darkened rooms.'<br /><br />Pause on every page of this physically slim but potent collection of his latest poems and see if you can turn away unchanged.  Brilliant poetry from a consistently brilliant poet.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, September 05	2005-09-03
85457:US	52496677	R1UYMJ09EFVRV4	3791327046	813792217	A Hidden Love: Art and Homosexuality (Art & Design)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	One of the Most Luxuriously Illustrated Art Books with a Message	The topic of inferred or occult homosexual meanings of masterpieces from Greco-Roman times to the present has needed a spokesman for a long time, someone who is willing to take on the arguments pro and con of artists' intentions and messages, reflective or declamatory, and form an argument to fill the nebulous void of written information.<br /><br />Dominique Fernandez writes with an easy, conversational style that makes his commentary and  pr&eacute;cis accessible as it is spread throughout this large volume. In contrast to less successful art history books, the designers of this volume have keyed the illustrations to the exact page on which the commentary is placed: no looking through indices here, and no struggling through disrupting the thought by attempting to locate the example.<br /><br />Fernandez follows a chronological timeline in presenting his thoughts.  One effective motif is selecting various myths and historical/biblical stories to play over the entire book of changing times, styles, social mores, and attitudes as they  have (+/-!) progressed from the Greeks to the 20th Century.  Examples: Achilles and Patroclus, Jupiter and Ganymede, Castor and Pollux, Narcissus, Apollo and Hyacinthus, Orpheus post Eurydice, Plato's infamous school, Cain and Abel, St. Sebastian, David and Goliath, St. John and Baptist, Hercules and Antaeus, St Francis' ecstasy, and others. Fernandez illustrates how these myths and tales have been acceptable ways for artists to discuss same-sex love or even confessional metaphors.  While the orientation of such masters as Caravaggio, Michelangelo, Cellini, and Canova is well known, the works of other artists through time leave suggestive calling cards in their approach to the male figures and story content of the sculptures, paintings, and drawings.<br /><br />The book is divided into sections: A Language of Symbols, Greek Antiquity, Ancient Rome, Modern Uses for Greek Myths, The World of the Bible, Christianity, The Renaissance in Florence and Rome, Baroque Europe, The Far East, Neoclassical Europe, Nineteenth-Century Reactions, A Free World, Dictatorships, The Permissive Society, and a concluding section called Art, Lost and Found.  The reproductions are exquisite, with particular emphasis on the splendid visualization of the many sculptures displayed - each freestanding without the fuss of setting that can be so distracting.<br /><br />If there are negative aspects of this fine volume, they would be the lack of detail in contemporary art: The Permissive Society section is severely pared down to exclude more than it includes.  If some of Fernandez' writing comes across as opinion rather than fact, then credit the man with at least having the courage to make a significant argument for his stance. For those who appreciate fine art books with the additional pleasure of opinion, this is a book that deserves attention. Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, August 05rence and Rome, Baroque Europe, The Far East, Neoclassical Europe, Nineteenth-Century Reactions, A Free World, Dictatorships, The Permissive Society, and a concluding section called Art, Lost and Found.  The reproductions are exquisite, with particular emphasis on the splendid visualization of the many sculptures displayed - each freestanding without the fuss of setting that can be so distracting. <br /> <br />If there are negative aspects of this fine volume, they would be the lack of detail in contemporary art: The Permissive Society section is severely pared down to exclude more than it includes.  If some of Fernandez' writing comes across as opinion rather than fact, then credit the man with at least having the courage to make a significant argument for his stance. For those who appreciate fine art books with the additional pleasure of opinion, this is a book that deserves attention. Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-29
88744:US	52496677	R38YU1II9KGUGQ	0375406778	246289375	No Country for Old Men	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Song for the Aging	Cormac McCarthy in his current novel NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN distills all that was fine in his previous novels, siphoning off the rambling verbal romance with the countryside, and keying in on character in a manner far more successful than ever. His language is so pungent and spare while saying volumes that this book could literally be turned into a script for a film without much doctoring.  He tells a fascinatingly gory tale of crime in the realm of drug trafficking along the border of Texas and Mexico, a story so vividly painted in words that the reader may feel the need to turn the head aside to avoid the gruesome details, and yet excellent as this narrative is, the main punch that makes this novel so fine is the use of italicized musings by one old Sheriff Bell who reflects on the changes in his hometown and in the resultant spirit of mankind which seems to be heading toward destruction of society as we know (or have known) it.<br /><br />The story involves youngish welder Lewellyn Moss who happens across murdered bodies and cars, finding an obvious heroin deal gone bad, the money for the payoff (some 2+ million dollars) left behind in a bag.  In a moment of fate Moss decides to take the money and run, telling only his wife of his plans.  How he proceeds through the chase by special agents and one evil plunderer who kills everything in his path that deters his seizing the money is the grisly bulk of the story.  No sooner do we meet characters than they are killed - and the path of death spreads out like a plague from the intial site of the drug deal.<br /><br />This is as descriptive and entrancing a crime novel as you will find, but that doesn't seem to be McCarthy's driver.  A consummate storyteller, he pauses at various times during this story to allow the reader to breathe and during each entr'acte he places words in the language of Bell that muse on how war changes men, how decisions made spontaneously can cripple the mind for life, and how the current (set in the 1980s) climate has become so violent that salvation may not be feasible. The wisdom falls simply out of the mouths of the old men: \\"You think when you wake up in the morning yesterday dont count. But yesterday is all that does count.  What else is there? Your life is made out of the days it's made out of. Nothin else. You might think you could run away and change your name and I dont know what all. Start over. And then one mornin you wake up and look at the ceilin and guess who's layin there?\\"  And on the subject of war: \\"I was too young for one war and too old for the next one.  But I seen what come out of it.  You can be patriotic and still believe that some things cost more than what they're worth.  Ask them Gold Star mothers what they paid and what they got for it.  You always pay too much. Particularly for promises.  There aint no such thing as a bargain promise....I always thought when I got older that God would sort of come into my life in some way.  He didnt.  I dont blame him.  If I was him I'd have the same opinion about me he does.\\"<br /><br />Cormac McCarthy's ease of writing here makes this particular novel utterly irresistible.  Few writers can match the naturalness of his prose and poetry of his content.  In this reader's opinion, this is McCarthy's finest achievement.  Recommended without reservation.  Grady Harp, August 05set in the 1980s) climate has become so violent that salvation may not be feasible. The wisdom falls simply out of the mouths of the old men: \\"You think when you wake up in the morning yesterday dont count. But yesterday is all that does count.  What else is there? Your life is made out of the days it's made out of. Nothin else. You might think you could run away and change your name and I dont know what all. Start over. And then one mornin you wake up and look at the ceilin and guess who's layin there?\\"  And on the subject of war: \\"I was too young for one war and too old for the next one.  But I seen what come out of it.  You can be patriotic and still believe that some things cost more than what they're worth.  Ask them Gold Star mothers what they paid and what they got for it.  You always pay too much. Particularly for promises.  There aint no such thing as a bargain promise....I always thought when I got older that God would sort of come into my life in some way.  He didnt.  I dont blame him.  If I was him I'd have the same opinion about me he does.\\" <br /> <br />Cormac McCarthy's ease of writing here makes this particular novel utterly irresistible.  Few writers can match the naturalness of his prose and poetry of his content.  In this reader's opinion, this is McCarthy's finest achievement.  Recommended without reservation.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-27
89895:US	52496677	R3QLMFW83OA5R9	0517059053	118283864	Ellis Island: Gateway to the American Dream	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Thinking About Immigration: A Timely Retrospective View	Pamela Reeves has created one of the more sensitive portraits of what used to be hailed as the American Dream.  With the current tragedies occurring daily along the borders of the United States this book could not be more timely.<br /><br />A slice of Americana, \\"Ellis Island: Gateway to the American Dream\\" is a superlative collection of photographs and paintings and other memorabilia that document the first person (Annie, from County Cork, Ireland) to set foot on Ellis Island on January 1, 1892  and then passes through the gradually changing times to the last person to use Ellis Island as port of entry (a Norwegian seaman) on November 12, 1954 as Ellis Island closed its portal.  Yes, movies and novels and books have used this magical place to tell the tales of the hopeful immigrants seeking refuge and better lives in the shadow of the Statue of Liberty.  But few other authors/artists have presented this bit of history with the sensitivity of Pamela Reeves.  Here are photographs in both black and white and color of humanity - joyous, sad, optimistic, defeated, tendered and beaten - the faces of the miscegenation of this land of wholly mixed heritages.  The results are mesmerizing, at times uplifting, and at other times heartrending.<br /><br />Perhaps if this book were more widely read and viewed we might better cope with the current pot of brewing resentment that smears the faces of those who still dream the American Dream.  These are issues that deserve, no demand, our attention.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-26
91026:US	52496677	R2CTM0LRSPLYJQ	0810918986	125723282	Sir Lawrence Alma Tadema	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Awash in Victorian Romance and Classicism!	The Victorian painters are enjoying a posthumous comeback and one of the more famous of these elegant painters was Sir Lawrence Alma Tadema.  Exceedingly popular in his time, the modern, reductionist movements of the post-Freud 20th Century brushed his work under the rug - except for those collectors and lovers of the human figure who refused to allow the body to be cubed, flattened, distorted, and abstracted.<br /><br />Now with the return of the appreciation of the human form Alma Tadema's paintings are enjoying a resurgence of popularity.  Russell Ash certainly gives us reason to see why in this lavishly illustrated, beautiful book filled to overflowing with complete paintings and fragments or details of perfect ladies languishing in flora and classical vistas.  Paintings that once were labeled as 'corny' are now being appreciated as suggestions of what made the Victorian Era unique.<br /><br />Ash writes well and thoughtfully minimizes written word space for the flow of the pictorial value of the  book.  This is simply a lovely volume honoring a misunderstood and in the past under appreciated artist.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-26
91278:US	52496677	R3K7XRGSIOHYCC	0890134324	167967583	Third Views, Second Sights: A Rephotographic Survey of the American West	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Documenting the March of Time	This is one of those rare collections of photographs that makes visual the question \\"Remember when...?\\".  Photographer/historian Mark Klett has produced a second book that addresses locations in the western United States initially photographed in the 19th century by such important photographers as William Bell, William Henry Jackson, and  T. H. O'Sullivan.  His first book 'Second View: The Rephotographic Survey Project' (a project supported by the University of New Mexico) was published in the 1970's and paired contemporary photographs of sites in the Western US with photographs by the above mentioned photographers.  Now he and his fellow photographers -  Kyle Bajakian, William L. Fox, Michael Marshall, Toshi Ueshina, and  Byron G. Wolfe - have again photographed the same sites (hence the title) and the resultant photographs are stunning.<br /><br />In this volume the three time periods of the three photographs in these 43 sets of 110 sites not only document physical and environmental changes: they speak loudly about man's intervention with nature and as such this book is on hallowed ground.  Not only for the beauty of the design and photographic content should this book be widely read and collected, but also it should remind us of the sanctity of the planet on which we live.  Highly recommended. Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-26
91391:US	52496677	RXPHX3OV1MTQV	0521639883	236885551	Sites of Memory, Sites of Mourning: The Great War in European Cultural History (Canto)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	The Great War in Retrospect	There are many reasons why World War I has been labeled THE GREAT WAR: it was the war to end all wars in the minds of those who lived through it, who were directly and indirectly affected by it, who continue to reference it as the war with the most emotional cost.  In times when wars seems to constantly queue since that inception of world war, wars spreading  from WW II, through Korea, Vietnam, the Gulf, Balkans, Eastern Europe, Spain, Africa, Iraq, Afghanistan, South America and on, taking a long hard look at the Great War will hopefully center our attention on a past time that can be analyzed and from which we can hopefully learn.<br /><br />Now that Jay Winters' brilliant book 'Sites of Memory, Sites of Mourning : The Great War in European Cultural History' is available/affordable in paperback, every household should have a copy as children grow into the years of this century.  Winters' examination of the devastation of WW I and the ways in which it informed all of the arts, the architecture, the literature, films, memorials - the people of the globe - is a mighty assignment  and he is more than successful in humanizing his message.  This book overflows with photographs of places, faces, bodies alive and dead, paintings, sculptures, film stills - each of which drives home Winters' powerful message.<br /><br />Sad though it may be to admit, war is a part of life on this abused planet: the more we study it the more we hopefully will reduce it.  Winters wants to make sure that we remember, that we read, view, walk through, see, hear, and listen to the remnants the Great War left behind.  This is a powerful, necessary book and should be required reading and viewing for us all.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-26
91564:US	52496677	RFJDV8UR2KASY	0944092861	766797709	Questions Without Answers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	But the Answers are in the Photographs	Duane Michals is a humanist of the first order.  His concerns are not unlike those of Walt Whitman, who seems to have played a major role in Michals' development as an artist and thinker.  The format of this book is elegant, simple, and touching.  It will come as no surprise that his 'Questions' for which he poses no answers are those same questions we all ponder, alone, in the still of darkness, in the solitude of nature.<br /><br />What makes Duane Michals pertinent is his lack of posturing as an artist.  One of the drivers for this portfolio is to continue his multiple studies of a few beautiful people.  Adding the written word or phrase in response to one of the 'Questions' at times is additive, at times superfluous, at times pedestrian, but at all times honest.  The photographs are his usual beautiful images, some touched with items, others reliant on the simple beauty of his models.<br /><br />Books such as this are warm companions for lonely times, times of loss, times for rejuvenation.  And isn't that true for all of art?  Recommended.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-26
93606:US	52496677	R385YYG6IE31QB	1576872300	405319287	Grim Street	Books	5	8	9	N	N	'Grabshots' Illuminate the Grim Streets of Wilkes-Barre, PA	Mark Cohen is a restless poet of a photographer. In GRIM STREET he demonstrates his enormous ability to grasp a winking moment of life in the back streets, isolated fleeting views of the ordinary made extraordinary.  This very fine book of photographs is less attuned to compositionally correct images as emotionally charged ones. As such it is a monograph of the smarmy, dark, seedy and at times embarrassingly immediate life of the underbelly of America as represented by the streets of Wilkes-Barre, PA.<br /><br />Cohen's successful forays in to this territory are accompanied by 'interviews' conducted by Anne Wilkes Tucker and Thomas Southall.  The composite result is a book that 'reads' like a novel and will remain compelling present in the mind's eye long after perusing it.  Fine work!  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-24
93942:US	52496677	REKTE0FL5Q0BH	3832790322	25871553	Woman: Andreas H. Bitesnich	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Photographic Female Form as Sculpture	Andreas Bitesnich is an artistic photographer who seems set on molding the human body into sculptural forms, emphasizing light and dark as it embraces athletic, oiled models.  His previous book 'Nudes' is  striking portfolio of male and female models posed as still life cold forms. Here his attention is limited to female models and hence the name WOMAN.  And it is stunning.<br /><br />In WOMAN Bitesnich has selected only a few models, women with perfectly formed bodies (genetically yes, but enhanced by obvious workouts to define muscle mass beneath near zero body fact integuments).  The results are elegantly posed nudes asked to pose in impossibly difficult fields of tension, setups that create sculptural forms that are dazzling.  The quality of the reproductions is superb and the format of the book is elegant and speaks solidly of fine craftsmanship on the part of all those involved in its creation.<br /><br />Bitesnich now needs to explore more of the inner meaning of his work, having mastered the visual metaphors.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-24
94694:US	52496677	R1EO4F47C5418Q	3861876965	465060474	Bites	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Bravo to Courage!	Giovanni deserves accolades for taking on a book subject that has been neglected since Grecian times - the male phallus!  While multiple photographers have approached the male nude with complete success and have included full frontal nudity, Giovanni makes the focal point of each of his photographs the phallus itself.  He is more successful in his black and white photographs where he can heighten the lighting effects and the mystery of his subject. When he includes a bit of clothing or drapery, the result is all the more effective. His color photographs appear a bit mundane and graphic as opposed to sensual.<br /><br />For this reviewer the cover photograph for the book (two nude males facing each other, 'crossing swords' as it were) is detrimental to the content.  For one, the image does not appear on this site.  And for another, for people who fear guilt by association, picking up this frank photo on the cover will probably not support sales.  And that is unfortunate, because what Giovanni has accomplished is a brave step in the right direction of replacing the maleness back into art!  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-24
95293:US	52496677	R3D7O3YCSNZ876	0711224536	921679885	Monet's Landscapes	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Beautiful and Very Informative Adjunct to the  Monet Library	Monet's evocative landscapes with their lush and subtle colors, thrilling use of light from various times of the day and the seasons, and varied locations of vantage have rarely been so beautifully presented as in this small but elegant book by Vivian Russell.<br /><br />Russell has visited many of the sites Monet painted and took photographs not only of the particular subject of his paintings, but also of the surrounding countryside, a fact that adds flavor of place to what must have inspired Monet. Not only does she include the coasts of France and Giverny, Monet's home and famous gardens, but she also traveled to Venice (some of Monet's most ethereal works are from this special haven), Norway, the flower fields of Holland, and the majesty of London.<br /><br />The photographs are superb and offer interesting information on what Monet decided to edit or to enrich with the impressionist's eye.  Russell is a fine writer and her comments and sensitivity to include much information from Monet's letters makes this book not only a perfect coffee table tome, but also a fine adjunct to art students and collectors alike.  Highly Recommended!  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-23
95719:US	52496677	R6K3I3VV596X0	0892073136	761218700	Robert Mapplethorpe And The Classical Tradition	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Mapplethorpe as Part of the Intellectual Museum Repertoire!	How far we've come!  Not many years ago Robert Mapplethorpe's inimitable photographs were the cause c&eacute;l&egrave;bre in museums and galleries. Even journalists and politicians and filmmakers focused on the 'pornographic' aspects of Mapplethorpe's varied output.  Yet today his place in the canon of art history is assured, and as proof of this status, here is a catalogue that accompanied an exhibition co-hosted by the prestigious Guggenheim Museum and the State Hermitage Museum of Russia!<br /><br />The sophisticated curators have elected to compare and contrast the Mannerist prints and sculptures from the Hermitage with the photographs from the Guggenheim showing how Mapplethorpe's nudes and flowers and still lifes share much of the same obsession with eros and passion.  Placing the etchings and sculptures side by side with Mapplethorpe's complementary photographs is a valid and informative curatorial concept.  The result of this comparison heightens our appreciation for Mapplethorpe's photographic compositions and manipulations of the nude form.<br /><br />The 'catalogue' book includes informed essays by Arkady Ippolitov,  Germano Celant, Guggenheim Curator Jennifer Blessing - each beautifully written and each cogent on the subject of the juxtaposition of Mapplethorpe with the Mannerists.<br /><br />The reproductions of both the photographs and the etchings and sculptures are superb.  This is one museum catalogue that stands very well as an art history book.  Recommended.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-23
96815:US	52496677	R3JQVWI1BQKFBE	0974402958	181279801	Kindsight: Images and Words From the Flow	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Profound Beauty of the Momentary Encounter	Robert Zuckerman, a highly regarded photographer of Hollywood film and of actors, has turned his attention away from the glittering world of make believe and focused instead on the ordinary. Yet in his eyes, and certainly in his writings that accompany each of the successful photographs in this sensitive collection these random encounters from routine, everyday life on the streets, the work places, cafes, and other niches that go unnoticed as being special, these moments transform from ordinary to become extraordinary.<br /><br />Perhaps it is the honesty he finds with his camera; perhaps it is the story that grows out of the moment that made him stop to notice a child or adult or group.  Richly colorful in presentation and content these 'kindsights' prove that beauty is in the eye of the beholder, and with Zuckerman's gift he is able to make us all look again at the miracles around us.  This is an uplifting and loving book that should be shared with good friends.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-23
97385:US	52496677	R1AM23MHWUML7A	0810958724	890161058	The Looting of the Iraq Museum, Baghdad: The Lost Legacy of Ancient Mesopotamia	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Pity of War	As discontent over the continued American presence and the mounting loss of lives of not only soldiers from this country but also from other supporting countries and certainly for the countless loss of civilian lives in Iraq, artists and writers are responding in kind to the woe of war.  One of the saddest tragedies of the Iraq invasion was the decimation of the Iraq Museum of Baghdad.  Many of the rarest of antiquities housed there are now reduced to dust while others suffered irreparable damage.<br /><br />This fine book provides many illustrations of the collection of the Iraq Museum and with that, naturally, comes a timeline of civilization as we know it.  The treasures are/were wondrous and the history as summarized by Milbry and William Polk, Selma Al-Radi, Angela Schuster, Zainab Bahrani, Usam Ghaidan, Anna Paolini, and Donny George in their fine essays should be required reading for all of us.<br /><br />This fine and beautifully designed book marks a sad moment in our history, but it also provides an invaluable resource guide for those interested in the cradle of civilization that was Mesopotamia - aka Iraq!  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-22
97392:US	52496677	RZOXVOKM0G81A	1859958605	188135217	Art of Vietnam (Temporis Collection)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Reminder of Beauty Past, A Notice of Beauty Present	ART OF VIETNAM may not be the definitive survey of this country's rich artistic heritage one might find in the archives of Eastern or Asian Art in Museums or Universities, but it is one of the most keenly written brief overviews of the hundreds of years of important creations from all the varied areas within Vietnam.  It also happens to make excellent references to the many 'occupations' of the country and the influences of those cultures (Western and Eastern) on the art that is Vietnamese.<br /><br />Art historian and author Catherine Noppe and specialist in Asian arts Jean-Franois Hubert have compiled an easily digestible summary of Vietnam's history, linking that history with the changes in credos and styles that blanket Vietnam's artistic past.  From religious relics to examples of two-dimensional and three-dimensional art, each work illustrated (in fine chronological order) is well chosen and presented in color-true fashion.  Even works of art currently being made by contemporary artists are included - some superb, some merely interesting.<br /><br />For those whose curiosity about Vietnam only increases with time since our flattening of that country some years back, this is a solid introduction to the rich cultural heritage that is Vietnam's.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-22
99307:US	52496677	R3VB3TI8IPHTYF	1884167454	141036033	Born into Brothels: Photographs by the Children of Calcutta	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Rich in Color and Atmosphere Despite the Tragedy of the Theme	BORN INTO BROTHELS is a welcome addition to the books on color photography.  Granted these shots are extracted from the award winning film, a feature documentary exploring the sad and at times sordid lives of these eight children born to prostitutes in the red light district of Calcutta, India.  But what photographer Zana Briski has captured in richly brilliant colors is not focused on tragedy or the smarmy aspect of the places in which these children live.  Instead she has found the beauty in the innocence of these children, living in a closed world without much hope of escape - except through the gracious ingenuity of Briski who held classes, teaching these children how to use the camera, offering a transient glimpse of a world they might never know.<br /><br />The children are extraordinarily photogenic, but the dazzling colors of the cloths, jewels, streets, glitter and scents from the spices are palpable.  This book stands alone on its merits of color photography: the fact that it holds the message it does makes it incredibly touching and unique.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-21
99648:US	52496677	R3J7O1LC8U0T80	0292705913	520044905	Animalerie (WITTLIFF GALLERY SERIES)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Closer View of the World of Animals	Jayne Hinds Bidaut is an artist with the camera.  This elegant collection of manipulated photographs is aptly titled ANIMALERIA: these  are perspectives of the animal kingdom probably not familiar to even photography collectors.  Bidaut uses filters and varied depths of field in creating her portraits of elusive animals. She works in tintype and stereograph methods, capturing beautiful portraits of insects and other creatures in the pet shops of her travels.  The eye of one becomes a still life, the ageless sculptural effects of various reptiles becomes studies in visual mazes, and the warmth of the artist's response to her subjects is transcendent.<br /><br />While others may have a wider range of animal photographs in their specialized repertoire - or a narrower range as in Wegman's famous dog photos! - few photographers can capture the mystery of the animal kingdom's variety like Bidaut.  This is a quiet and lovely volume of images expertly  produced.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-21
99978:US	52496677	R2D19IJN6VGBDD	0714845183	541884511	J.W. Waterhouse	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Replacing 'Kitsch' with Deserved Honor	JW Waterhouse is one of those myriad Victorian painters whose works appear in 'books beautiful', covers for art magazines and programs, and in general, works for the boudoir.  Touches of femininity such as found in his many works have been regarded as kitsch, not allowable in the museums or important art collections.  Humbug!<br /><br />Peter Trippi at last places Waterhouse's output in a light of respect and examines his paintings with reference to the times in which they were painted and the social and gender biases of the Victorian era (biases which extended well into the 20th century!).  He further offers apologies to the artist for our neglect in a way that raises our attention to a new level of appreciation.  This book is lavishly illustrated with superb color reproductions of full paintings and details of paintings.  Trippi's writing is scholarly and immensely readable.<br /><br />It is a joy to see works of the past century enter the arena of fine art.  Time moves slowly: first the Pre-Raphaelites and now JW Waterhouse and his fellow painters of myth and romance.  A fine volume and excellent introduction to the topic. Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-21
100383:US	52496677	R29KJZKZD561ZL	0743256166	72000617	Behind the Lines: Powerful and Revealing American and Foreign War Letters---and One Man's Search to Find Them	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Bringing the Atrocities of War Home	BEHIND THE LINES is a powerful collection of fragments of thoughts that were initiated over the past two hundred plus years of war scars.  Andrew Carroll continues his commitment to bring the reality of war to the forefront of our attention and I know no better manner for anti-war statements than the words found in this illuminating and horrifying book.<br /><br />Carroll approaches war as a panacea - an evil that has been with us around the globe for centuries and just continues unabated.  Many poets and writers are struggling to make the public cognizant of the horrors of war, but Carroll scans American involvement in wars from the Revolutionary War to the present and in doing so he demonstrates the madness that we must learn to stop.<br /><br />Letters, documents, memos, soldiers' notes as well as civilians' responses fill these pages, some eloquent, some simply pitiful, and some stoic as well as some encouraging.  The messages are not skewed in a way that makes Carroll seem like he is ranting.  Rather he lets the words of the living and the dead speak truths far larger than fiction.<br /><br />This is a beautifully conceived volume that for the sake of the survival of civilization belongs on the reading desks of everyone.  Tough reading, this, but enormously informative and important. Highly recommended. Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-21
107989:US	52496677	R1O4DS8GSMV9XH	0195156684	600918612	Eakins Revealed: The Secret Life of an American Artist	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Fascinating Reading, But Does Biography Inform Art?	There is no question that Henry Adams scholarly book EAKINS REVEALED: THE SECRET LIFE OF AN AMERICAN ARTIST is an important tome in the already extensive library of the life and works of Thomas Eakins, an artist still considered by many to be the greatest American artist who ever lived.  And if many Eakins' devotees find this information as gathered and regaled by Adams as an attempt to push Eakins of his historic pedestal, then I think the chosen title for this treatise has been misleading.<br /><br />Adams has pored over countless reams of notes and letters and documents and oral histories (all well documented and scrutinized in his extensive bibliography) and presents another aspect of Eakins' life - that of a crude, exhibitionist, sexually ambiguous vs disturbed, depressed man obsessed with nudity and body functions and a man whose family history of cruelty, incest and madness informed his paintings.<br /><br />The book is divided into three sections: Part One - The Eakins Legacy (including Eakins family background, odd living conditions, family quarrels, the deaths and insanities of those close to him, and including the infamous Loin Cloth Scandal that contributed to his being fired from the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts; Part Two - Life and Art in which the previous information is shown to have influenced Eakins' portraits, rowing paintings, swimming paintings and the BIG paintings like 'The Gross Clinic', 'The Champion Single Sculls', 'William Rush' etc; and Part Three - The Case of Thomas Eakins in which Adams pulls it all together maintaining that indeed because of Adams' scholarship, Eakins is still the most important painter America has produced.<br /><br />The question arises as to just how much of this Freudian muck raking is necessary and whether ultimately how important is this 'new' information to the viewer of Eakins' paintings.  Yes, facts such as those presented (ad infinitum!) in this lengthy volume provide smarmy interest, if not material for a movie about a strange but great man.  Others have written similarly about Michelangelo, Caravaggio, Artemsia Gentileschi, Bacon, Warhol, de Kooning, Pollock etc.  No artist can stand before an easel and not have his/her interior feelings and experiences influence the painted work.  But does all of this innuendo-plucking make or break an artist's place in history?<br /><br />The argument Adams makes is ultimately strong and deserves respect: \\"Eakins, far from being the most moral of American artists, was surely one of the most profoundly confused, even disturbed.  By making art out of the chaos, conflict, and scandal of his own life, Eakins brought us more deeply into the world of sorrow, suffering, and despair than any other American artist of the nineteenth century.  By some peculiar alchemy, he made his dark feelings beautiful, as anyone can attest who has contemplated one of his major paintings.  Their effect can only be described as hypnotic\\".<br /><br />Where Adams succeeds in making his points is in his painting by painting dissection of all of the Freudian implications of composition, exhibitionism, indeterminate gender buttocks, hidden models, etc, yet his visual examples are so poorly presented in this volume that they are all but indecipherable.  Would that the publishers had devoted more space to the paintings and even used color, an important component of Eakins' works, to make the lesson more workable.<br /><br />Yet as in Adams summary, Thomas Eakins is such an important painter that any additional information or perspective only results in expanding our appreciation for his greatness.  Adams writes well (if excessively) and if the reader can drop preconceived prejudice that Adams is out to dethrone Eakins by prying into his psyche, this is actually a fine read.  And given some time for reactionary responses to die down, EAKINS REVEALED will be an important contribution to the art libraries.  Grady Harp, August 05r a movie about a strange but great man.  Others have written similarly about Michelangelo, Caravaggio, Artemsia Gentileschi, Bacon, Warhol, de Kooning, Pollock etc.  No artist can stand before an easel and not have his/her interior feelings and experiences influence the painted work.  But does all of this innuendo-plucking make or break an artist's place in history?<br /><br />The argument Adams makes is ultimately strong and deserves respect: \\"Eakins, far from being the most moral of American artists, was surely one of the most profoundly confused, even disturbed.  By making art out of the chaos, conflict, and scandal of his own life, Eakins brought us more deeply into the world of sorrow, suffering, and despair than any other American artist of the nineteenth century.  By some peculiar alchemy, he made his dark feelings beautiful, as anyone can attest who has contemplated one of his major paintings.  Their effect can only be described as hypnotic\\".<br /><br />Where Adams succeeds in making his points is in his painting by painting dissection of all of the Freudian implications of composition, exhibitionism, indeterminate gender buttocks, hidden models, etc, yet his visual examples are so poorly presented in this volume that they are all but indecipherable.  Would that the publishers had devoted more space to the paintings and even used color, an important component of Eakins' works, to make the lesson more workable.<br /><br />Yet as in Adams summary, Thomas Eakins is such an important painter that any additional information or perspective only results in expanding our appreciation for his greatness.  Adams writes well (if excessively) and if the reader can drop preconceived prejudice that Adams is out to dethrone Eakins by prying into his psyche, this is actually a fine read.  And given some time for reactionary responses to die down, EAKINS REVEALED will be an important contribution to the art libraries.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-16
108436:US	52496677	R2UA6Z9ET2QVKY	0300104901	964612475	All the Mighty World: The Photographs of Roger Fenton, 18521860 (Metropolitan Museum of Art Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Beautiful Tribute to a Pioneer Photographer and his Art	Though Roger Fenton may not be a name known to the general public, he certainly is a hero among those who have devoted their lives to the art of photography.  Working in the mid-nineteenth century with a novel invention - the camera - Fenton was probably the first to see the possibilities of photography as art.<br /><br />This magnificent volume shares 85 of the artist's finest photographs, including moody views of the buildings of London, Moscow, Kiev, landscapes of countrysides, delicately composed still lifes and even some of his war photographs, works which compare to Matthew Brady's Civil War photographs.<br /><br />The accompanying essays and comments are not only highly informative, they also are written with a reader in mind!  This is a beautiful and important book about an under appreciated artist about whom we all should know more.  Highly recommended, and well worth the price. Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-16
113945:US	52496677	R2AAK8K9OJFSPU	1932503455	989208196	Poems from the Heart	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Simple Gifts	Annette Hoggs-Jackson is a significant being, devoting her life to helping others parched by drug abuse, homelessness, depression, domestic abuse and other demons.  Trained as  psychologist she now shares her insights with her husband Sammy in a ministry called Christians Merging Together.  She is doing more than her part in fighting the cracks in the world others stumble upon.<br /><br />In this brief book of 100 poems Annette Hoggs-Jackson transfers all of her human kindness into simple gifts of short poems.  These poems, primarily written in rhyming couplets, address particular issues but are written to give reassurance and hope.  Her message is based on her conviction that her talents are a gift form God and her poems sanctify that stance.  These are not great works of art, but they are honest, unassuming words from the heart and from a very generous spirit.  And that is refreshing and makes them significant - especially in today's chaotic world.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-13
124323:US	52496677	R11TKC6YJCH0P	0192805584	688412862	Happiness: The Science behind Your Smile	Books	4	41	42	N	N	'Happiness is like a butterfly...'	This brief but scholarly and entertaining little book is not the expected 'self-help book' - or is it?  Daniel Nettle explores studies collecting data on people's views of whether or not they are happy (polls), on brain systems (biology), on anti-depressants, hallucinogens, and dopamine (biochemistry), and on the media/marketing blitz of recipes for achieving happiness.  It is all very concise, non-biased, and informative.<br /><br />But by far the most helpful and sensible information contained in this book is Nettle's quiet explanation of how we as humans are geared to determine 'happiness' on comparisons with our fellow beings: is my income as big as theirs, my car/house/lifestyle, business success and yes, even sexual achievement as gratifying as my neighbors'?  It often boils down to a polarity between 'wanting' and 'liking' - the decision is ultimately ours.  Nettle contends that in constantly pursuing happiness (or questioning why our levels don't meet expectations), the most we can hope for is 'what psychologists call subjective well-being'.  He then closes with rays of hope that with increased scientific and biochemical investigation, the goal of happiness just may be closer at hand.<br /><br />Nettle quotes Hawthorne: \\"Happiness is like a butterfly which, when pursued, is always beyond our grasp, but, if you will sit down quietly, may alight upon you.\\"  A well-written, necessary book for today's society.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-08
125776:US	52496677	R21OHLELUC3HKY	0060742860	54363195	It's All Right Now: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Ordinary Man and the Perennial Search for Meaning	Charles Chadwick's sprawling (682 page) novel is an amazing feat.  It takes a mighty story to glue a reader's eyes to a tome of this size and that is why this is such an odd victory: there really is no 'story' per se, just the private musings of a man who describes himself as a gray being - \\"I've noted before, I think, that the impression I seem to give is one of neutrality.  I feel pretty neutral about that.\\"  Language of this sort becomes not that of ennui but of profound introspection on a perceived common life.<br /><br />Tom Ripple is a loner, avoiding contact with other humans whenever possible, a man who goes to extremes to just be anonymous.  His main driver appears to being convinced that he - and the rest of the world's inhabitants - are simply 'all right'.  He avoids interaction with neighbors (even a disarmingly acute need to confront a pederast) and with troubled people in general.  His aloof stance creates a safety cocoon for him: \\"A friendship loomed, making me feel decidedly unfriendly.  I accepted of course.\\"  Though events occur (in abundance) around him, Ripple skirts them or at best denies any interest in intervention.<br /><br />Yet despite the continuing pages of interior dialogue by a man removed from the world while walking the turf of that world, there is something about Tom Ripple that creates an indelible character, one of those literary creatures that become part of our vocabulary.  Think 'Rabbit Run', 'Catcher in the Rye' and at the same time remember this is the first novel by a 72-year-old author!  Quite an achievement.  Let's hope there are more books from this Charles Chadwick.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-07
126918:US	52496677	R37EKCT9MGQ0NK	9749218612	932150961	Waiting for the Lady	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An Author Who Captures the Essence of Asia through the Eyes of an Ex-Pat	Christopher G. Moore is a writer of immense talent and though he is not well known in this country, if he continues writing novels as rich in intrigue and atmosphere as WAITING FOR THE LADY, his moment will come.  Writing in the vein of W. Somerset Maugham, Graham Greene, Ernest Hemingway, and a dollop of Joseph Conrad and DH Lawrence (to mention the first that come to mind!), Moore knows how to sculpt a tale of intrigue while informing his reader about strange and exotic places  and the turbulent histories that influence his choice of story line.<br /><br />Sloan and Hart are two longtime artist friends living in Thailand who stumble on a series of photographs associated with a dying promise that the photographs will be returned to the mysterious lady captured in an odd way.  They two have co-authored (Sloan as a photographer, art as a writer) a book on the Chin people of Burma, a group of people known mostly for their tradition of tattooing the faces of the women with spider-like tattoos), and all indications point toward re-visiting their old haunts.  The two travel to Myanmar (as Burma is called today), encounter old acquaintances who offer clues as to where their trek will best follow, and soon they are joined by Sarah - a woman writing her PhD on the tattoo symbolism of the Chin people!  Sloan and Hart are also motivated on this trip to uncover Ming china, a source of potential fortune for these worldly guys.  How the history of Myanmar influences their journey and leads the threesome into bizarre circumstance is the mode of intrigue and page-turning story that results.<br /><br />Moore is at his best in creating situations and atmospheres and writing with an eloquent style: \\"Nothing is fixed in the past or the present. What we call actual emerges from a fog of many possibilities. Until we observe an event, the forces are fluid, everywhere at once, neither here nor there, diffused and open-ended.  It is only afterwards that the witness gathers evidence and only then can anyone say that the event ever happened in precisely that way.\\"  If Moore has a flaw that could bear correcting it is in his tendency to become sidetracked by either words or events or tangential information that at times stops the story's propulsion.<br /><br />This is a fascinating read, one that educates as well as entertains.  When Moore elects to be comedic, he does so with aplomb, much in the way Shakespeare used comic relief to allow his audiences time to breathe from the dramas.  Christopher G. Moore has written 18 books and if they all approach the quality of this novel, then he most assuredly deserves a wide audience in the USA.  Where are the readers from the film studios scouting for terrific ideas for adventure films......?  Grady Harp, August 05only then can anyone say that the event ever happened in precisely that way.\\"   If Moore has a flaw that could bear correcting it is in his tendency to become sidetracked by either words or events or tangential information that at times stops the story's propulsion. <br /> <br />This is a fascinating read, one that educates as well as entertains.  When Moore elects to be comedic, he does so with aplomb, much in the way Shakespeare used comic relief to allow his audiences time to breathe from the dramas.  Christopher G. Moore has written 18 books and if they all approach the quality of this novel, then he most assuredly deserves a wide audience in the USA.  Where are the readers from the film studios scouting for terrific ideas for adventure films......?  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-06
127397:US	52496677	R16NAG7VH83RDA	0967990807	864553642	Edwardian Men: Photographs by James Spada	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Capturing the Essence of Edwardian Times with Contemporary Photographs	James Spada's beautifully designed book of his own photographs is a strong dose of nostalgia - a longing for quieter times when solitude and elegance were treasures found in the settings of old roses, old lace, opulent furniture, and that most important ingredient - the sub rosa contexts that so often were associated with the arts of the Edwardian period.<br /><br />Emphasizing and truly using as his starting point Spada's love for his Victorian house and the foggy, subjugated sensuality of the fin de siecle it represented, this collection of photographs of male nudes eventually took the photographer beyond his own environment, seeking out old bed and breakfast places and locations up and down the East Coast.  The uniting thread of this collection is his placement of these beautiful masculine nudes in tandem with Spada's concept of Edwardian atmosphere.  The decision to render these photographs, images flooded and shadowed in light and wisps of air, in sepia tone only serves to magnify the overall 'old photograph effect.'<br /><br />Spada elects to use the written word to further the 'Edwardian spirit', here using excerpts from Shakespeare's sonnets placed strategically throughout the book.  This is an elegant coffee table book,  a successfully sensuous collection of photographs, and a relaxing moody way to reacquaint with the increasingly appreciated stance of Shakespeare's sonnets.  Grady Harp, August 05	2005-08-06
139877:US	52496677	RH02MO6RY46GB	1412047005	812937424	Seeds of Heaven	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Interesting Ideas, Lacking Literary Content	SEEDS OF HEAVEN  is an example of a good idea in need of a good house: published in a 'large comic book' appearing format it unfortunately prepares the reader for something that is not to be taken too seriously.  And that is a problem.  This book, though not a towering epic masterpiece, does present some thoughts that muster wondering as to the possibility of the creation of the world  being not that of Creation of the Bible or of Evolution of Darwin, but  of a retrograde side effect of extraterrestrials manipulating the Lost City of Atlantis. This is a process that author Tito Abao terms Interventionism.<br /><br />Abao's ideas hold the reader's interest - the concept that extraterrestrial intervention in the destruction of Atlantis resulted in historic and mythic events such as the tale of Noah's Ark and the rise and fall of mighty civilizations - but the problem with carrying the reader through tales that relate tangentially to 'world as we know it' is in the telling. The characters as drawn fail to hold our interest. Abao sprinkles his pages with enough names and concepts that make a reference guide of the author's mind a necessary companion to stay with the story.<br /><br />Reading SEEDS OF HEAVEN includes timely issues such as cloning but pushes the credibility beyond even Sci-Fi (the genre that this book emulates) possibilities.  And another problem hampering this book's success is the overindulgence of the author's commentary posted here on Amazon.com and in places in the book.  There is an old saying that first the art must speak for itself, then the information about the artist follows as an addendum.  Here that is reversed and what results is a biased view of literature and personal experience that dilutes what has the potential of being an interesting read.  Grady Harp,<br /><br />July 05	2005-07-31
145953:US	52496677	R1VFMVXRFBM7B	0975998110	100488756	ScreamFree Parenting: Raising Your Kids by Keeping Your Cool (Screamfree Living)	Books	4	19	22	N	N	An Alternative Approach to Successful Parenting Wisdom	Hal Edward Runkel is on a roll with his wittily trademarked moniker 'ScreamFree': he has formed a corporation 'ScreamFree Living' which provides advice on parenting, marriage, relationships,  and leadership in the form of e-books, lecture series, workshops, hardback books, online parenting forums, and live seminars on CDs.  Talk about marketing in the 21st century!<br /><br />'ScreamFree Parenting: Raising Your Kids by Keeping Your Cool' is a fast read, a refreshingly simple way to address the ever-perplexing problems of parenting, and an excellent guide for those who enter the thought process Runkel posits.  Through a series of chapters + self-help questions Runkel in essence proposes that tending to our own personality positions, avoiding reactive behavior to stressful situations, and simply remaining 'cool' in the face of crisis is the way to gain a growing household.  While it is well known than our children long for limits and solid reliable role models who allow them to grow in to self-sufficient, self-reliant adults, the message just hasn't consistently seeped into the minds of parents.  We go from rigid authoritarians (prison guards) to overly permissive (the child rules) atmospheres, neither extreme providing the nurturing plane for child or parent to get the most out the joy of introducing tomorrow's adults to a saner world.  Runkel sets out to correct that situation.<br /><br />While written for parents and with excellent examples of how these postulates work, there is much information here for every reader to transpose  to simply enhancing our relationship with the world. It is healthy, easy, and constructive.  One could quibble with the notion that it is 'unhealthy' for a child not to observe a parent's 'loosing it': children should be exposed to adult fluctuations from perfection in order to avoid the fear of encountering such alternative behavior for the first time in the not-so-safe outside world.  Just a thought...  But in the end, this is a well written, at times simplistic and tinged by religion, little fast read that is a witty and wholly usable adjunct to improving human behavior.  Grady Harp, July 05l written, at times simplistic and tinged by religion, little fast read that is a witty and wholly usable adjunct to improving human behavior.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-27
148469:US	52496677	RWEWIMJS1MZME	0974827401	439005452	In Her Presence: A Husband's Dirty Secret	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Form Follows Function Follows Form	Nancy Weaver may just be a powerful new presence in books of this genre.  In developing a multigenerational tale of marital discord, infidelity, vengeance, incest and the serpentine, slithering lines of deceit woven in and through her main characters she has managed in a relatively short novel to condense as much evil as other authors more bent on being verbose will spread over several hundred pages. She is terse, stabbingly poignant, and almost vitriolic in her style of writing, making the tale so real it constantly feels as though it is memoir instead of fiction.<br /><br />Weaver jumps right in to her story without taking the time to set the period or the history that could have served as overture to this gothic-like tale: in other writer's hands this could be a criticism. In Weaver's hands it appears to be a style choice, as though lapsing into painting atmosphere on her stage would diffuse the spotlight from the horrendous tale she has elected to weave.  And for this story it works.<br /><br />As is often the case with first novels there seems to have been a rush to publish and that rush probably accounts for the at  times distracting lack of proofreading for syntax, spelling, grammar, and for maintaining chronological flow.  But an editor with a sharp eye easily corrects those errors.  The bottom line here is that Nancy Weaver may be a bit rough hewn in her first outing, but there is an energy and determination that is powerful and promises more good books (one hopes) in her future.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-26
148598:US	52496677	REQBV6S6ZGREY	185894287X	391569133	Basquiat	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Jean-Michel Basquiat and the Rise of Multiculturalism	After spending an afternoon strolling the huge exhibition of the works of Jean-Michel Basquiat currently at MOCA in Los Angeles, the visual indulgence becomes repetitive and exhausting. Yes, the works are curated well, the museum spaces the installation artistically, and the access to the spectrum of Basquiat's output (including collaborative works with Andy Warhol and Francesco Clemente) is thorough.  But it is a bit of visual overkill to monopolize a museum with works that are so similar that the original graffiti punch that initiated the brief career of this artist is lost.<br /><br />This highly professional catalogue (monograph) that accompanies the exhibition is a book that should be read BEFORE visiting the museum.  The writing is excellent, much attention is paid to the time into which Basquiat emerged, the sociological importance of placing a graffiti artist's works in private galleries and in museums, and indeed the visual manifestation of the Hip Hop movement that Basquiat's works on paper and canvas represent prepares us for a show that subsequently becomes far more important.  Quite a change from the usual 'catalogue as souvenir' concept so traditional in museums and galleries.  This book stands alone as an art work: the reproductions are generous and well color-keyed, the essays are first rate, and the documentation of the works by Basquiat is in essence a Catalogue raisonn&eacute;.<br /><br />So whether or not you have access to this traveling exhibition should not influence whether you add this important book to your library.  It simply is that fine!  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-25
148604:US	52496677	R3MY9Q9HWS1CVH	0964191601	383045216	Fuck You Heroes: Glen E. Friedman Photographs, 1976-1991	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A Monologue on Energy	Glen E. Friedman has been capturing the high voltage energy of today's youth and those who speak to them for a long time. In this very interesting collection of photographs he manages to focus (pardon the pun) on skateboarders, rappers, the guys who hang out on the streets all living on the edge.  The energy he captures is inimitable.  Reading this book immediately after viewing the museum exhibition of Jean-Michel Basquiat makes it all ring true.  These may be the remembered commentators and artists of tomorrow.  But for now, this is a worthwhile journey into subcultures you may not know.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-25
149487:US	52496677	R232M43TYT2OLW	8495939118	128419440	A Broken Landscape: HIV & AIDS in Africa	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Bringing the Tragedy of AIDS in Africa to the Forefront of our Attention	While much media coverage is given to statistics about HIV and AIDS in the USA, whether that be medical data now more available to the public, films that document both the Hospice development for the dying as well as the fragile hopes of new medicines and possible vaccines for those living with HIV, or simply coverage of the entertainment industry support during AIDS Walks, Runs, and other Benefit extravaganzas, almost nothing is said about the devastation that this disease has eroded the continent of Africa.<br /><br />Here in a book that is more devoted to the visual images of patients, families and villages in the shadow of AIDS than to statistical information,  the truth becomes more poignant.  In a series of interview monologues with some of those affected by this plague the need for world wide attention is apparent.  How we can spend billions on wars and exclude the humanitarian needs of those for whom each day is a life and death crisis boggles the mind.  Perhaps this informative and tender book will help.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-25
150255:US	52496677	R3BL46BQFGI58G	071483839X	447893093	Portraits	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Eyes of the Subject Stand Guard to the Soul	Steve McCurry, though highly regarded for his photojournalism and compassionate, realistic views of nature's tragedies and human errors, has turned his camera lens toward the people of the world and the effect is one of the most piercing, poignant, exquisitely beautiful collections of street portraiture ever assembled.  One is reminded of Dorothea Lange and Diane Arbus and others who have pried open the beings of their simple subjects in luminous black and white images.<br /><br />Yet what McCurry has accomplished is not only magnificent color photography of the highest order of the people of the world in their ethnic regalia, he has managed to capture that elusive moment of vulnerability when the subjects eyes probe the photographer's lens as deeply as the photographer seeks entry into the secrets of his subject's existence.  The result is complete magic.  At times the subjects reflect terror, arrogance, at times pleas for compassion, and at times human inquisitiveness.  McCurry has time and again found that moment of total attention that beams from the eyes of the encountered novice to the outside world.<br /><br />This is a book of beautiful portraits, but more important it is a series of views into attitudes, fears and longings that make us reevaluate our own stance and vantage point on the planet.  Highly Recommended. Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-24
150287:US	52496677	R110K31QIF1STP	0944092950	585246224	Peter Hujar: Animals and Nudes	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Man and Animal: A Book Of Similarities	Peter Hujar is a fine photographer, best known for his penetrating studies of the nude.  In this thoughtful and thought-provoking portfolio, Hujar approaches the animal kingdom in larger spectrum: he pairs his casually provocative nudes with portraits of animals in associative stances, never becoming anthropomorphic in his concept, but allowing the viewer to enter the world of ideas and possible metaphors  that literally fly off the pages of this impressive volume.<br /><br />Hujar obviously has the comfort of his models with whom he is in collaboration.  At times in poses of repose and at other times in moments of arousal, each of the nude portraits is remarkable more for the pure honesty of approach than for the sake of art form.  And, indeed, the same could be said with the way he has  captured the animal models.  The result is a generous, well designed book (so typical of TwinPalms Press) that is not only a satisfying survey of living beings from the animal kingdom, it is a seductive plane for thought, and more than that no photographer could ask.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-24
151380:US	52496677	R11ADLPZB733S	0810946025	152961250	The Luminous Years: Portraits at Mid-Century	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Nostalgia Documented	Karl Bissinger may not be a name well known to many, but after reading this beautiful portfolio with its fine introduction by Gore Vidal, this photographer's name will forever be linked to nostalgia.<br /><br />Bissinger chose the post WW II years of the 1940s and 1950s to capture the personages that fell into the public spotlight during that time.  The 'models' or subjects range from movie stars to writers, to poets, to fashion people, to the political giants of this country and European countries.  Captured in their homes, offices, studios, and environs,  Bissinger composed each portrait with the essence of the sitter in mind: Marlon Brando exudes his legendary sex appeal, Katherine Hepburn her elusiveness, Truman Capote his penchant for the bizarre and so on.<br /><br />The portraits carry with them not only the preservation of the subject at hand, but of the atmosphere of those halcyon days when he war was over and we could rebuild the dreamworld so proposed by these memorable people. This is a beautiful volume of fine photographs that captures the flavor of the mid-twentieth century to a fare-thee-well.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-24
152830:US	52496677	R3SMX4RUZD4DAI	1411621093	631459526	Freedom City	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Fascinating Story by  a New Author	Gregory Oliver McEwan debuts on the literary scene in the gay genre with a worthy first novel FREEDOM CITY.  He is a writer with fine imagination, able to create unique tales and populate the story with interesting characters, and has the knack for making stories that while they stand alone as interesting reading, they also make some powerful sociologic and philosophic statements - without preaching!<br /><br />Benjamin Grey is an identical twin (his brother is Grant Grey) who has been raised with the benefit of physical comfort, good looks, and fine parents.  He longs for individuality, finding that his sexual preference is not enough to differentiate him from his twin, and while respecting his parent's wishes that he maintain 'proper decorum', he longs for a world where he can live his life in the open, a gay artist unfettered by closets and social mores.  He lives by the ocean and daily wanders down to the beach to ogle the lifeguard Michel Phillipe Molyneux, a handsome lad who has matured to adulthood without the privileges of known family, money or position.  The two seem opposites and while they exchange glances, neither is open about his proclivities.<br /><br />On Benjamin's 20th birthday he is given a gold embossed letter from the Ada Corporation requesting (read 'demanding') his reporting to a location where he will be transferred to a mysterious destination. Unbeknownst to Benjamin, Michel receives the same letter.  Benjamin's father explains the 'project', that by government decree thousands of gay men are being sent to a special community!  Hesitant to leave the security of his family yet mesmerized by the concept of living  a freely open gay life, Benjamin follows the orders.  Once on the designated airplane he discovers Michel is also aboard and the long secret desires are finally shared.<br /><br />Freedom City is a floating 'ship' city, beautifully constructed as a freestanding, elegant enclave for gay men.  Under the glitter of the location, however, lies the menace that the man in charge - Alexander Ada - is a homophobic beast who has devoted his life to follow his Anglican father's admonishment that all gays are perverse and sinners and should be removed from society (Ada has had two sons, one he allowed to perish because he was gay and the other he left as an orphan).  Ada has created this 'refuge': aboard this luxury city the men are provided expansive and expensive rooms and given lives of unconditional comfort.  For a while.  Benjamin and Michel become lovers and together they discover other men, some of whom Benjamin has been informed by his father that they were to be trusted, others they encounter as formidable threats.<br /><br />In time Benjamin and Michel realize they have been coerced into exile, an isolated prison for gay men meant by Ada to make the world free of gay influence.  Events transpire, Benjamin is raped by one of the guards, Michel makes a discovery about Ada, and soon the plan to escape form Freedom City with the newly bonded small group of men (Benjamin, Michel, drag queen Duchess, Christopher who has been aboard faking mental illness but in reality is a college associate of Benjamin's own father, and Brice, a handsome quiet man at first thought to be a vicious adjunct to Ada but who becomes truthful about his sexuality with his new friends).  The remainder of the story deals with the ultimate escape from the 'haven' of Freedom City and how that entails transformations in each of the men involved.<br /><br />This is a metaphorical tale of sexual alienation and homophobia taken to extremes and as such it is a well-made story. People are not always what they initially seem.  There is enough tension and sufficient surprise twists to keep the reader involved to the end.  There are areas where McEwan has room for growth (actually a good omen for first time writers who write well enough that they incur critiques!).  The writing is a bit on the flowery side, a bit too formal (perhaps McEwan's Jamaican ancestry has influenced his formality of tone), and the tendency to extend ideas with repetition makes this book a bit too long.  The novel is 500 pages (though it is kindly published with double spacing an generous blank breaks at the end of chapters) and could comfortably been reduced to 300 odd pages.  Example: the escape from confinement  in Freedom City via the air ducts is extended over 150 pages and while the idea is sound, the endless description of the movement is stalling. More attention could be paid to changes in feelings that occur among the main characters: we never really understand how Brice goes from beast to lover, or how the bond between Benjamin and Michel becomes so abruptly fragile, and we need more about the interrelationship among Christopher, Ada and Benjamin's father - all prior acquaintances before this novel begins.  McLean deserves a stronger editorial hand to help condense and mold his intial novel.<br /><br />But given the above, all points of which are easily remedied, FREEDOM CITY comes across as the work of an author who bears watching.  He knows how to handle the gay genre well, interposing just enough sensual detail without ostracizing the non-gay readership.  A special mention should be made of the book's design that includes a lovely cover by artist Cohan.  This is an author this reader will continue to watch and read.  Recommended.  Grady Harp, July 05rhaps McEwan's Jamaican ancestry has influenced his formality of tone), and the tendency to extend ideas with repetition makes this book a bit too long.  The novel is 500 pages (though it is kindly published with double spacing an generous blank breaks at the end of chapters) and could comfortably been reduced to 300 odd pages.  Example: the escape from confinement  in Freedom City via the air ducts is extended over 150 pages and while the idea is sound, the endless description of the movement is stalling. More attention could be paid to changes in feelings that occur among the main characters: we never really understand how Brice goes from beast to lover, or how the bond between Benjamin and Michel becomes so abruptly fragile, and we need more about the interrelationship among Christopher, Ada and Benjamin's father - all prior acquaintances before this novel begins.  McLean deserves a stronger editorial hand to help condense and mold his intial novel. <br /> <br />But given the above, all points of which are easily remedied, FREEDOM CITY comes across as the work of an author who bears watching.  He knows how to handle the gay genre well, interposing just enough sensual detail without ostracizing the non-gay readership.  A special mention should be made of the book's design that includes a lovely cover by artist Cohan.  This is an author this reader will continue to watch and read.  Recommended.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-22
161914:US	52496677	R2QT3HRSTC2TX5	1573223050	105872586	Translation Nation: American Identity in the Spanish-Speaking United States	Books	5	20	26	N	N	Latinidad: Cultural Identity, Miscegenation or Diaspora -The Enriching of America	Hector Tobar is a journalist now living in Argentina  who also happens to be a fine writer.  Probing his own past as the son of immigrants from Guatemala as a baseline and investigating like families and individuals, TRANSLATION NATION is one of the more interesting, readable, and informative books about the current rise in the number of Latin Americans who in their immigration to a new country have made a solid impact on the cultural, artistic, gastronomic, and political face to the USA.<br /><br />Tobar interviews and follows histories of some fascinating and courageous people, documenting their diaspora-like web across the country.  From the Cuban exiles in Florida and the massive Los Angeles and Southern California Hispanic population we all know to the enclaves and pockets of 'latinidad' communities sprinkled across the entire United States, Tobar gleans a feeling of identity, of success stories, of the numbers of Hispanics who have gained national importance and prominence to the beautifully persistent folk traditions that remain intact despite the surrounding environs.  The importance of 'futbol' (soccer), the explosion of cuisines not only form the ubiquitous Mexican fast food chains but also the increasingly popular cuisines of Central and South America, the popularity of Chicano painting and crossover music, the on-going debates about border control - Tobar manages to define just what impact 'latinidad' has had and will continue to have as the Latino population grows faster than any other group in census studies.<br /><br />In a time when the government seems to be polarizing the nation about the Latino influx it is refreshing to read Tobar's eminently optimistic evaluation of this newest aspect of the Melting Pot concept of America.  An informative and fine read.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-18
162879:US	52496677	R2W35Y104PM030	1560235225	828642470	Now Batting For Boston: More Stories By J. G. Hayes	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Forging a Way Through the Labyrinth of Possibilities: More Tales from JG Hayes' South Boston	We knew it was coming when THIS THING CALLED COURAGE was published: JG Hayes had opened a door into his prodigious gifts as a storyteller, a voice while uniquely indigenous to South Boston that could universally address the terrifying and ultimately gratifying journeys of discovering our sexual identity.  NOW BATTING FOR BOSTON: More Stories by JG Hayes broadens that expected base of support that comfortably confirms the fact that Hayes has the gift.<br /><br />What makes these seven short stories unique is their platform.  South Boston remains a blue-collar area of that great city of American equality for all - Boston, the beacon for life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.  Yet South Boston is an historical and current enclave of Irish American immigrants with strong ties to the Catholic Church and braggadocio male/female dichotomy.  This is Hayes' neighborhood and root source: the fact that his stories deal with those boys and men who are gay in an unfriendly climate makes them tender, vulnerable, courageous and immensely touching.  Hayes chooses not to opt for the easy routes, the obvious tear, or the safety of the closet: his characters struggle through the darkly strange labyrinth that gradually leads to light and to finding the true self.<br /><br />And he knows how to seduce the reader into stories with few signs of where they are to lead.  The title story opening the book deals with a WW II broken father whose sharing his war experiences with his son falter at the brink of truth, and at the end the son lies on the grave of his father uttering the same phrases of confession about his sexuality that earlier protected his father's truths about the war.  The effect is stunning. 'There is a Balm in Gilead' visits the reunion of ex-lovers, and bares all the scars and regrets and anxieties that can alter the possibility of new beginnings.  `The Golden Apples of the Sun'  successfully explores the atrocities of war and its sequelae on Veterans in a manner that dwarfs many tales from true Veteran writers!<br /><br />'You're always happy when you're rich' finds a young painter trying on the false front of wealth only to discover that career dreams are less important than personal physical realities. In 'Lughead' a blue-collar Irish man longs to be other than his nickname denotes and how he struggles, searches for and finds  the one who accepts him as he is sans moniker. 'The West Broadway Academy of Martial Arts' recounts a journey into the homophobic Southern states made by two friends verbally sidestepping their gay proclivities as they bond on their journey.  And 'Terry-Love: One Good Thing' follows the nightly Sheherazade-like tales of  encountering physical love (apologized as heterosexual) told by a lad in a rehab facility, a tender and frank means of survival among young Southie DUI offenders whose childhood roots bind them.<br /><br />The stories are varied and ring true and Hayes' writing is picturesque and picaresque and poetically eloquent. Though his style is verismo and redolent of the earthy South Boston accent, when he addresses nature he waxes \\"..and I was watching the moonlight on the floor, like...spilled silver. Shifting, rolling.  Like milk.  Then there'd be like a cloud smudge, and the light would fade, it would be pitch-dark in a heartbeat. Then all bright again.\\"<br /><br />For this reader JG Hayes has found a niche where he excels, fulfills the promises of his first book, and steps fully into the arena of important American authors.  And what a joy that this man can write so richly about the souls of gay people.  Highly recommended for all readers: required reading for those who thirst for fine gay literature.  Grady Harp, July 05at dwarfs many tales from true Veteran writers! <br /> <br />'You're always happy when you're rich' finds a young painter trying on the false front of wealth only to discover that career dreams are less important than personal physical realities. In 'Lughead' a blue-collar Irish man longs to be other than his nickname denotes and how he struggles, searches for and finds  the one who accepts him as he is sans moniker. 'The West Broadway Academy of Martial Arts' recounts a journey into the homophobic Southern states made by two friends verbally sidestepping their gay proclivities as they bond on their journey.  And 'Terry-Love: One Good Thing' follows the nightly Sheherazade-like tales of  encountering physical love (apologized as heterosexual) told by a lad in a rehab facility, a tender and frank means of survival among young Southie DUI offenders whose childhood roots bind them. <br /> <br />The stories are varied and ring true and Hayes' writing is picturesque and picaresque and poetically eloquent. Though his style is verismo and redolent of the earthy South Boston accent, when he addresses nature he waxes \\"..and I was watching the moonlight on the floor, like...spilled silver. Shifting, rolling.  Like milk.  Then there'd be like a cloud smudge, and the light would fade, it would be pitch-dark in a heartbeat. Then all bright again.\\"   <br /> <br />For this reader JG Hayes has found a niche where he excels, fulfills the promises of his first book, and steps fully into the arena of important American authors.  And what a joy that this man can write so richly about the souls of gay people.  Highly recommended for all readers: required reading for those who thirst for fine gay literature.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-17
166237:US	52496677	R2FJ6YHV4K01DK	0743492609	277827243	The Painted Kiss: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Inspiration for Gustav Klimt's Infamous Painting 'THE KISS'	New author Elizabeth Hickey makes an auspicious debut with a novel based on the life of the Viennese fin-de-si&egrave;cle painter Gustav Klimt as told through the eyes and memories of fashion artist Emilie Fl&ouml;ge.  A big chunk of history from which to sift a novel - the time of such greats as Gustav Mahler, Sigmund Freud, Egon Schiele, Oscar Kokoschka, Arnold Schoenberg, Wittgenstein, etc, etc - Hickey freely admits \\"The aim of historical fiction is not to render the past exactly as it happened - an impossible task - but to imagine it as it might have been\\", and in so stating she covers her bases for any quibbles that might arise from her readers whose depth of knowledge in art history, music history, and indeed the entire Secessionist Movement might have.  Higgins has created a very readable story based on fact, and the result is a work by a writer of great promise.<br /><br />Emilie Fl&ouml;ge is introduced as a young girl, a people watcher from her middle class Viennese home, a girl who disdains the thought of pursing a career as a secretary or other 'sensible' occupation but at the same time is unsure where she wants her life to go: \\"I'm the one who is always wishing for something else, something I can't have, something there's no point in missing.\\"  The time is the infamous fin-de-si&egrave;cle and Emilie is gradually introduced to a youngish painter Gustav Klimt who accepts her as a student of drawing.  Klimt is a lothario, mixing his long hours before his exotic canvases with affairs with his low-class models, with any woman who will consent, and with wealthy women such as Alma Schindler and Adele Bloch-Bauer.<br /><br />Klimt is drawn to Emilie's unique personality and begins a long 'affaire de coeur' while encouraging Emilie to follow her own dream of becoming a fashion designer.  The Secessionist Movement is Klimt's brainchild and part of this new thinking in art includes new looks in fashion, a portion of the movement Emilie directs with her sister Helen known as Schwestern Fl&ouml;ge.  Art shows are held and emphasize Klimt's work and their careers surge.  The Vienna of the Austro-Hungarian Empire crumbles with WW I and with that demise much of the artistic life of Vienna falls, too. Klimt eventually paints Emilie and creates 'The Kiss' which was intended to have Emilie and Gustav as models, but in a last moment of wanting to preserve Emilie's reputation he alters.  Klimt's health fails and he dies. WW II soon thunders over Vienna and Emilie and her sister flee to their old summer refuge Kammer am Attersee: Emilie's only remnants of her involvement with Klimt and indeed her presence in the Secessionist Movement are treasured drawings including the original drawing for 'The Kiss'.<br /><br />A lot of territory to cover in a novel, this, but Elizabeth Hickey keeps it terse and well propelled, making all of the omissions of the times excuseable.  There are moments when she dwells too long on inconsequential information about sewing and cloth and the sorts of things only a seamstress would care to know, but when she focuses on painting descriptions she excels: many of the more important paintings by Klimt are set apart from the flow of the novel by a page or two of italicized information about the model of that work and the process involved.  She does manage to bring into her narrative bits of information about Gustav Mahler and Egon Schiele that could have benefited by expansion.  But these are all hindsight thoughts after reading what is essentially a fine first novel by a well-informed, fluid author.  And for once the cover jacket of the book is an elegant full-color reproduction of a painting by Klimt, complete with the sense of gold leaf and patterned fantasy that begs the reader to open the book!  Grady Harp, July 05ern Flge.  Art shows are held and emphasize Klimt's work and their careers surge.  The Vienna of the Austro-Hungarian Empire crumbles with WW I and with that demise much of the artistic life of Vienna falls, too. Klimt eventually paints Emilie and creates 'The Kiss' which was intended to have Emilie and Gustav as models, but in a last moment of wanting to preserve Emilie's reputation he alters.  Klimt's health fails and he dies. WW II soon thunders over Vienna and Emilie and her sister flee to their old summer refuge Kammer am Attersee: Emilie's only remnants of her involvement with Klimt and indeed her presence in the Secessionist Movement are treasured drawings including the original drawing for 'The Kiss'. <br /> <br />A lot of territory to cover in a novel, this, but Elizabeth Hickey keeps it terse and well propelled, making all of the omissions of the times excuseable.  There are moments when she dwells too long on inconsequential information about sewing and cloth and the sorts of things only a seamstress would care to know, but when she focuses on painting descriptions she excels: many of the more important paintings by Klimt are set apart from the flow of the novel by a page or two of italicized information about the model of that work and the process involved.  She does manage to bring into her narrative bits of information about Gustav Mahler and Egon Schiele that could have benefited by expansion.  But these are all hindsight thoughts after reading what is essentially a fine first novel by a well-informed, fluid author.  And for once the cover jacket of the book is an elegant full-color reproduction of a painting by Klimt, complete with the sense of gold leaf and patterned fantasy that begs the reader to open the book!  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-14
167285:US	52496677	R2L0OG6CJYKS8D	193178860X	10009508	Augustus F. Sherman: Ellis Island Portraits 1905-1920	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Welcome to America  - at the beginning of the last century	Augustus F. Sherman was simply doing his job when from 1904 to 1920 he photographed the individual arrivals of multiple nationalities at Ellis Island.  It was his duty to document those new immigrants who were detained for further investigation before they were allowed to step onto the Great Hope that was America.  But what resulted from this duty is a portfolio of portraits of world peoples that is as tender and as touching as any ever captured by professional famous photographers!<br /><br />According to essayist Peter Mesenholler, Sherman was interested in anthropological documentation of the different physical characteristics of these Eastern, Western and Southern European proud folk.  He captured the inherent pride of origin of these people who often donned their finest native folk costumes as they entered New York harbor. Sherman was sensitive to the psyches of his 'sitters', knowing that in addition to the overwhelming urge to enter America, the Land of Dreams, each of these people brought with them the memories both sad and happy of their native lands, 'heroes' if you will who were brave enough to leave their roots and aspire to higher dreams and goals.<br /><br />These one hundred portraits are some of the more wrenchingly beautiful from this important time of mass immigration into America, images of the folk who would comprise the melting pot that we so cherish as our national treasure.  All of this art is gained by the honest eye of a non-professional photographer who took the interest and care to pass along that rarefied moment of our country's history.  And there is much to be learned from slowly perusing the faces and honest captions of these important photographs.<br /><br />The quality of the reproductions in sepia-toned presentation is superb as is the accompanying wise essay by Peter Mesenholler.  There are few books of photography that can be more widely acclaimed than this.  Very highly recommended.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-13
168766:US	52496677	R2SYK5Q4IJ0OBO	1401300227	475518677	Jamie's Kitchen	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A Satisfyingly Full Course Meal of  a Book	Not being a television observer of cooking shows or even one who keeps up with 'celebrity chefs', JAMIE'S KITCHEN came as a fresh surprise as a book that just happens to have excellent, reproducible recipes for some fine dishes!  Jamie Oliver deserves his fame, if this book is any indication.  Young and spunky, with a real talent for witty explanations that keep a recipe book palatable (!), Oliver offers not only some well-chosen delicious treats not found in other cookbooks, outlined in the most easy to read and follow fashion, but he also pays attention to other details.<br /><br />Like marketing, for example.  In a very short space wholly free of pretension, Oliver supplies tips on how to buy foods, when to buy them, when to tell if the produce is the best (and tips on keeping the grocer informed as to the occasional lapse in quality control!), informing the reader that fresh fish should never smell fishy and should have clear eyes , smooth scales etc.  Little bits of info like this make the reader bond with the chef, ready to accept his advice on preparing apparently simple yet unique and elegant fare.<br /><br />There are so many cookbooks out on the shelves these days, but few match the quality of photography of the chef at work, the dishes prepared, the lightness of the written words, and the honest and informed commentary that this book does.  Makes you want to read his other books - like getting to know a new friend better!  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-12
169539:US	52496677	R1098KEHTYP8NH	1591840929	540895607	Buzzmarketing: Get People to Talk About Your Stuff	Books	5	26	30	N	N	"I heard it on the grapevine..."	Once in a while up pops a quick fix book that is sane, smartly written, witty, entertaining and ultimately useful.  Mark Hughes has produced just that book in his terrific little book BUZZMARKETING : Get People to Talk About Your Stuff.  How he came up with this idea, implemented it, and is impacting business from little Mom and Pop stores to major corporations is the gist of the book.<br /><br />First, it seems too obvious to follow Mark's concept. All of us know that we are far more apt to listen to the enthusiastic excitement about a product form a friend, a watercooler discussion, or over hearing a conversation in places such as an elevator, bus stop, or those wide awake moments in obligatory meetings.  The media blitz numbs our brains UNLESS there is something catchy, memorable, and quotable that sticks to our brains like magnets.  These are the buzzwords Mark addresses - and does very much more.<br /><br />In 'six secrets' of creating the magical buzzwords are given early on in this book and the six buttons of buzz to start a conversation are 1) the taboo (sex, lies, bathroom humor), 2) the unusual, 3) the outrageous, 4) the hilarious, 5) the remarkable, and 6) secrets (both kept and revealed).  We are shown that pushing any one of these buzz buttons will immediately start a conversation that will ultimately get people to repeat it...and the cycle begins.<br /><br />Building on this momentum the book offers the 'secrets' of making buzzwords, slogans, seducing the media, and using the loaded information to market a product.  Using success stories to support these approaches (companies using popular stars to capitalize on their product, businesses who build on simple quirky phrases to supplant expensive variably successful advertising campaigns) supplies enough evidence to pay close attention to 'buzzmarketing'.<br /><br />Mark Hughes is not only successful because of his concept's amazing results, he is also a wonderfully fluid and witty writer.  Reading this book is not a chore: reading this book is an experience that entertains while it informs.  And wild and simple as the concept is, it works!  Pleasure yourself and advance your career.  Grab the gold ring before this little book is on the Best Seller list - as it is surely headed in that direction!  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, July 05is book is an experience that entertains while it informs.  And wild and simple as the concept is, it works!  Pleasure yourself and advance your career.  Grab the gold ring before this little book is on the Best Seller list - as it is surely headed in that direction!  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-12
178463:US	52496677	R9NNV05DX1NDT	1413764908	696675152	A Broken Charity: The Rise and Fall of the Jewish Educational Center	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Insider's Report: A Microcosmic Metaphor for the Corporate Problem	How many times, driving to work, do we hear the myriad commercials for 'Here's how to get rid of your unwanted car and write it off as a tax deduction' and wonder just how that gimmick works?  Jack E. George has been there, suffered that, and has the bravery and good sense to tell us at least one example (in fact, the prototype of the entire cars for causes network) of a charity and its ups and downs.<br /><br />Based on fact - the scandal surrounding the Jewish Educational Center in San Francisco - George details all aspects of this unfortunate case and makes it interesting, at times humorous, and always honest in his methods of research and explication.  The facts include misspent funds obtained by charitable means, but they also include the personalities of all the people involved - from the top Rabbi and IRS down to the parents and teachers and children.<br /><br />At first this book may seem as though it is an isolated bit of reportage about one 'company' out of the many names of corporations undergoing investigation.  But once the reader begins to enter the world of Jack George, this exacting extended essay becomes a novel of sorts.  In short, George has written an expose that is as interesting as most fatter crime novels out there.  A BROKEN CHARITY is a fast read,with staying power.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-06
178780:US	52496677	R3886R3H1ZL6EB	0374299625	440745925	Specimen Days	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Themes and Variations: Making Poetry of the Past, the Present, the Future	Michael Cunningham possesses a mind rich in imagination, musical in nature, poetic in style, and mesmerizingly addictive in product.  SPECIMEN DAYS should not be compared with any other work either by Cunningham or other authors writing in one of the three genres this book embraces.  It is one of a kind and appreciating and celebrating that unique stance is the secret of finding its core significance.<br /><br />SPECIMEN DAYS takes place over a span of approximately three hundred years and in doing so it avoids chronology that would make it 'historical fiction', linear writing that would suggest a magnum opus novel, and fabrication of language or place that would imitate science fiction.  The stories are three in number, individually named, able to stand solely on their own: this could be three novellas in collection.  But Cunningham challenges us to find the threads of similarity, the permutations of seeds planted in the first pages that stretch and grow through the entire book, and he does this with the glue of the poetry and presence of Walt Whitman whose words \\"It avails not, neither time or place...I am with you, and know how it is\\" are graciously quoted on the cover flap.<br /><br />The constants are in the characters' names of Catherine (or Cat or Catareen), Lucas (or Luke), Simon; the fragments of Whitman's poetry from 'Leaves of Grass' which emanate from the lips of a lad or a child or a programmed humanoid; a small decorated bowl that surfaces almost like a spirit in each story.  How Cunningham weaves these simple aspects into three wildly different tales form different times is not only amazingly fine but also stimulating to the reader's eyes and spirit.<br /><br />A story about the downtrodden poor of the industrial revolution in New York City and how love can encourage unimaginable sacrifices progresses to post-9/11 Manhattan  where like named characters respond to the humanism of the sacrifices of terrorism which in turn progresses into a completely imagined future when man's greed and drive to conquer space, has superceded caring for earth's mankind and resulted in intergalactic travel mixing the populations of two planets in the remains of a discarded Old New York. And when a robotic humanoid from this last place asks his creator about his existence, the designer says 'I gave you poetry...To regulate you. To eliminate the extremes...I could program you to be helpful and kind, but I wanted to give you some moral sense as well...I thought that if you were programmed with the work of great poets, you'd be better able to appreciate the consequences of your actions.\\"<br /><br />Of Whitman's poetry Cunningham introduces in each story the lines 'What is the grass? fetching it to me with full hands; How could I answer the child? I do not know what it is any more than he.'  And for this reader therein lies the magical beauty of this strange but enormously successful book. Cunningham's way with words is luminously simple: 'It seemed possible. It did not seem possible'.  And with his writing gifts he has created another wonder.  Grady Harp, July 05ely imagined future when man's greed and drive to conquer space, has superceded caring for earth's mankind and resulted in intergalactic travel mixing the populations of two planets in the remains of a discarded Old New York. And when a robotic humanoid from this last place asks his creator about his existence, the designer says 'I gave you poetry...To regulate you. To eliminate the extremes...I could program you to be helpful and kind, but I wanted to give you some moral sense as well...I thought that if you were programmed with the work of great poets, you'd be better able to appreciate the consequences of your actions.\\" <br /> <br />Of Whitman's poetry Cunningham introduces in each story the lines 'What is the grass? fetching it to me with full hands; How could I answer the child? I do not know what it is any more than he.'  And for this reader therein lies the magical beauty of this strange but enormously successful book. Cunningham's way with words is luminously simple: 'It seemed possible. It did not seem possible'.  And with his writing gifts he has created another wonder.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-06
179605:US	52496677	R24OG2Q9EJXZAH	0810949806	958734769	Gardens Around the World: 365 Days	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The Visual Poetry of the Garden	Photographer/naturalist/writer Mick Hales has created a book that visualizes not only the beauty but the imperative importance of gardens.  He traveled throughout North America, Asia and Europe and not only found gardens of extraordinary beauty, but found those lovingly patient vistas from which we, the viewer, can be brought into an understanding and appreciation of the message of each garden.  The photography is stunning, like paintings recreated by an artist's eye, but here the subject is captured without recreation: Hales' lens captures what is really there.<br /><br />Hales speaks to each photograph, each garden view, enhancing what we otherwise might miss from the one vantage given us.  He has arranged the 365 gardens both alphabetically as to place and further defined the photographs by months of the year.  Here are gardens from winter to fall: the flow is as magical as the qualities of nature.<br /><br />In his short but sensitive introduction to his portfolio he states: \\"As our society moves faster and faster, with technological advances each year, it is hard for us to keep our connection to the land.  Keeping a garden is on answer to this loss - having one's hands in and smelling the soil. Watching plants grow, flower, and die back reminds us of our own humanity and the lives we have been given.\\"  And that sums it all!  This is a MUST for gardeners, for naturalists, for dreamers.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-05
180882:US	52496677	RS5K6BN9Y4WCS	0684196573	432848148	Paul Bowles: A Life	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A Man Who Crossed Disciplines and Abetted Creativity	Virginia Spencer Carr is not only a fine biographer in this recounting of the life of the ubiquitous Paul Bowles, she also was a friend of a fascinating man who touched many aspects of the arts and made his mark in multiple areas of creation.  Some of those areas were in his friendships and interpersonal critiquing of famous artists such as WH Auden, Benjamin Britten, Ned Rorem, Aaron Copland, Tennessee Williams,  Virgil Thompson, Carson McCullers, and Gertrude Stein.  His life began as a poet, progressed through years as a composer of music that never quite found its place, and ended as a novelist of such impressive books as 'The Sheltering Sky', 'Let It Com Down', 'The Spider's House' etc.<br /><br />Carr takes all this into account and serves it up with a thorough amount of information about Bowles' carefully guarded private life.  Married to lesbian author Jane Bowles, Paul Bowles was one of those sub rosa gay artists who managed to bond with many other great gay artists in a time when such interplay was hardly condoned.  Carr manages to give insight as to how these people learned form each other (for instance the infamous February House in New York where many of them lived communally for a while); she does this without resorting to gossip or sensationalism, respecting the fact that writing biography includes an obligation to yield a viable picture of the subject.<br /><br />Bowles spent much of his life in Tangiers (this is where Carr first met him) and most of his successful novels and writings were influenced by his observations of the clashes between the 'tourists' who visit Morocco yet never connects with the realites and idiosyncrasies of that mysteriously magical place. Much the same could be said about the ambiguous persona of Paul Bowles.  How much of his life was due to his inherent talents and how much was due to his integral interplay with the artists of his entourage?  Carr poses some fine explanations in this very readable biography of a man who remains an enigma.  Grady Harp. July 05o remains an enigma.  Grady Harp. July 05 <br /> <br />	2005-07-04
182386:US	52496677	R2D4LUPC7HRALS	6309174215	930096095	Richard Wagner Tristan Und Isolde	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Unfortunate Platform for American Soprano Deborah Polaski	For those who have heard Deborah Polaski in opera or infrequent recital and have been waiting for a recital CD to explore this singer's gifts, this \\"Highlights from Tristan und Isolde\\" will be a disappointment.  Polaski possesses a gleaming, clear, truly Wagnerian voice, one that comfortably soars over the biggest orchestral sounds, reveals intelligence, and she matches that voice with poignant response to the poetry of her character.<br /><br />While she continues to traverse the big roles of Brunnhilde and Isolde at Beyreuth, she is rarely heard in her native USA.  One would hope that this recording might correct that, but the quality of the recorded sound coupled with the 'lazy' conducting of Bertrand de Billy with the Radio Symphony Orchestra of Vienna<br /><br />makes for a rather earthbound performance.  Heidi Brunner as Brangane contributes little urgency just at the moments when Isolde needs the contrast in building climaxes.<br /><br />Recommendation: wait until someone records Polaski with the respect she deserves before buying this bland CD. Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-03
183759:US	52496677	R11P5Z5E5T20LM	3861876957	366427147	Intimate Strangers	Books	5	15	17	N	N	When Intimacy is the Means of Communication Between Strangers	Kobi Israel is not only a fine photographer, he is an observer of the human condition.  Originally from Israel he moved to London's SoHo district where he noted the inordinate number of isolated strangers, men without connection to him whose stories Israel felt needed telling. \\"Soho is full of posing, but also full of feelings and emotions - loneliness, excitement, fear, passion and self-discovery are all aspects of living in a big cosmopolitan city.\\" \\"We are all foreigners among foreigners here - everyone you lay your eyes on is a mystery, an enigma.\\"<br /><br />Israel began capturing his subjects on film. \\"I selected my models very subjectively, often without having a plan beforehand. Some sessions were triggered by a smile on the street from a passer-by, a shy look in a bar, an erotic chat on the internet, or just by following the body language of someone across the street from my coffee table. Sometimes, a moment of intimacy unexpectedly revealed itself during a professional photo session for a model portfolio.\\"<br /><br />The results of this handsome portfolio are in the subjects, the emotionally lonely poses, the phenomenal eloquence of Israel's lighting effects, and the fragility yet compassionate frames he has captured.  Yes, there is pairing and intimacy here, yet the overriding message comes from the eyes and tenuous postures of these beautiful men captured by an artist who understands human vulnerability.  Recommended.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-01
184455:US	52496677	R11SH7FN4CHIV0	3861872854	352387198	Kobi Israel Views	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Touching View of Young Israeli Troops from Both Public and Private Sides	This short portfolio by Israeli artist Kobi Israel is more a document about repression within the military setting than it is a survey of fine photography.  The images, while always interesting and touching and revealing of inner conflicts, aren't up to the finely honed artistic status of his other works.  But the fact that the message is so powerful forgives any artistic looseness: the photographs are more like snapshots and in the long run that contributes to the power of his story.<br /><br />As Israel so well explains his stance, \\"The thin line between homo-social and homo-erotic in army life can be so confusing and torturous for a gay soldier. Soldiers hug and kiss each other, say 'I love you brother' to each other, sleep together - sometimes lean on each others' chests, sometimes share a tiny mattress, have communal showers where they play 'boy games' like throwing water and soap on each other, sometimes share a hot shower,...\\". \\"In 1988 when I was 18, I joined the army. In a series of photos in this book I have tried to recreate the feeling of loneliness that I suddenly felt, torn by confusing emotions of 'brotherly' love and sexual attraction to my fellow soldiers, by fear mixed with beauty and fantasy. Soldiers look manly, confident and beautiful. So are the soldiers in my photos. But look at their eyes ... they reveal the real feelings. A body full of beauty, masculinity and youth, when erupting with sexuality, can be misleading - the eyes tell the full story - there is a deep loneliness, a hidden forbidden passion, fear and confusion in these eyes.\\"<br /><br />In this time of war throughout the globe it is well to read and look at Israel's view of camaraderie in the military. Understanding the soldiers' needs and fears and the way those feelings are acted out is a quiet revelation.  Kobi Israel is an artist with a heart.  Recommended.  Grady Harp, July 05	2005-07-01
187389:US	52496677	RYMJHUDTW757Q	0967444934	251548042	Magical Peace: One Nation Under Love	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Down to Earth Spiritual Optimism	Tarin Francis should be cloned.  In this time when not only are wars raging out of control in many parts of the world,  and geographic disasters vie with drive-by murders in the media, when new words like 'road rage' emerge to explain away the monstrous incidents on our freeways, and when the movie houses are faltering in audience attendance with the endless 9/11 disaster stories and comic book extravaganzas - in this time we need to have some quietly hypnotic words of solace from writers who seek change.<br /><br />Tarin Frances offers ways to repair our injured selves, re-examine our own priorities and outlooks, alter the way we interact with our fellow planet citizens, and in making positive changes from within suggests how each of us can 'change the world'.  Now some will call this pollyannaisms and for those locked in the stifle of pessimism Frances' words may appear naive.<br /><br />Suggestion: take the short amount of time it takes to read this brief, 150-page pillow book and see if your own psyche isn't purged and renewed.  People like Tarin Frances care about where we as people are and has the courage to speak up.  No, this book is not profound or deep in philosophy, and yes, it can be considered a self-help book.  But perhaps the ground zero of the future lies in our own participation in working for a better, safer, and more loving planet.  Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-29
190346:US	52496677	R22X9G7GZFWUJK	0465078443	298399934	Bookmark Now: Writing in Unreaderly Times: A Collection of All Original Essays from Today's (and Tomorrow's) Young Authors on the State of the Art ... Hustle--in the Age of Information Overload	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Ray, no Beam, no Klieg Light of Hope for Book Folks!	Finally someone has come up with some solid evidence that, contrary to media predictions of the death of reading and writing in the age of instant computer blogs and ebooks, the art of writing and the art of reading are very much alive and well and prospering.  Those of us addicted to the written page, whether writing or finding that intangible joy of turning the paper pages of books of fiction, of poetry, of adventure, of any manner of brain-nourishing information that can be opened, bookmarked, and closed like a comfortable friend, never far from our side,  can breathe a sigh of relief.<br /><br />Kevin Smokler has gathered essays and comments by contemporary writers whose topics range from MFA writing programs, self-help writers' books, blogs, googling, ebooks, and the frustrations and joys of the advent of the computer and its role in the writer's and the reader's lives.  The fears of 'getting published' are calmed by a discussion of all of the manner of publishing houses that assist first time writers as well as the heretofore unnoted plethora of books being ground out by the Big Name Houses.<br /><br />For a bit of encouragement, a dollop of humor, and some very fine writing from those practicing their art at present, the readers and writers (and reviewers!) are invited to the feast.  Indulge thyself! Now if someone could just write as hopefully about the decline of classical music recordings.... Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-26
190780:US	52496677	R31MRLOZ8PH13Z	0764154249	887953622	Sculpture in Stone	Books	5	12	14	N	N	An Important and Entertaining Introduction to Stone Sculpture	SCULPTURE IN STONE relates in words and pictures the history of the world's oldest form of sculpture and serves as a valuable resource for practitioners of the art of carving, for art historians, and for collectors of both ancient and contemporary stone sculpture.<br /><br />Beginning with a brief but informative survey of making art from earth's resources, author Cami walks us through the complexities of the refinement of the tools from the original stone chisels to the most modern equipment.  The portion on conceptualization of how to transform a formless body of solid material into an artistic statement usurps a large portion of this volume - with copious references to the author/sculptor's own work.<br /><br />But the real glory of this beautiful volume is the plethora of fine photographs of famous works, contemporary works, tools, pillars, sarcophagi, monuments, figures and abstractions that fill the pages of this resource book. The tendency towards the 'how to' aspect of the volume intrudes a bit too often, but that only widens the audience for readers interested in the history of Egyptian and Greco-Roman secrets as well as the means by which contemporary artists still marry their inspiration to the stone.  Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-26
191104:US	52496677	R3PIZEVZ1YW82H	078581115X	596726725	Cities: Then & Now	Books	4	3	3	N	N	And while you plan that summer vacation...	Visitors to cities throughout the world at times witness a bit of first-view traveler's remorse: dream locations rich in history and exotic aura are concealed from the naked eye by the over building of contemporary times.  Author Jay Antoniou has capitalized on those potential disappointments in constructing this fine book that peels away the facades of now to rerun the cities to their original states of beauty.<br /><br />By no means meant to cover every aspect of the cities represented in this artistic book, Antoniou selects special aspect of each of the eighteen cities he exhumes. Using a series of well-reconstructed transparent plastic overlays he first gives a history of the site, then proceeds to reconstruct the chosen area to allow us to view the original vista. In Athens he chooses the Agora of 435, In Rome the Imperial city circa 27 BC, in Istanbul the 6th century AD Hagia Sofia, in Jerusalem the Old City and Temple Mount of 1150, in Florence the city center with cathedral of 1425, In Barcelona the harbor and Old Ton of 1570, in Amsterdam the Old Town and harbor of 1630, In Mexico City the Zocalo and palace of 1700, in Paris the Champs-Elysees and the Louvre of 1740, in London the city circa 1750, in Washington DC the Capitol and Pennsylvania Avenue of 1860, in Sydney the Cove and city circa 1888, in Moscow the Moskva River in 1890, in Tokyo the layout of Nihombashi Street in 1909, in San Francisco the Market street and business district of 1916, in Hong Kong the waterfront in the 1920s, and in New York both Wall Street and Battery Park of 1930.<br /><br />Almost anywhere you choose to visit is included and with the visuals comes much information and terminology that serves to greatly enhance the various cities explored.  This fine book is sturdy enough to accompany you on your travels and is guaranteed to enhance your expectations of the wonders of the world's special places.  Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-26
192349:US	52496677	R3B29U19Q5FLTR	0971237069	57724961	Street Possession	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Tony Lindsay has established his own genre of novels	STREET POSSESSION is another in the line of gritty, street life urban novels in the vein of his popular CHASIN' IT that demonstrates author Tony Lindsay's true talent for talking the talk, finding the seamiest parts of the south side of Chicago streets, and creating characters who are disparate enough to be wholly recognizable to carry the tangled threads of Lindsay's story while always keeping the reader on course.<br /><br />The story involves hookers, pimps, drug lords, policemen with an edge, and the struggles for territory geographic and physical.  It is always rewarding to watch a young author finesse his style by supplementing a 'formula' that really works with forays into literary devices that demonstrate growth with each novel.  In STREET POSSESSIONS Lindsay begins with an introduction called \\"The Birth\\" that is an eloquently written history of two girls whose love for each other withstands the stones thrown by a non-understanding world.  His characters Camile and Doriann find just the right degree of tension regarding intermarriage, same sex love, and the mystery of 'witchcraft', and the violence of rape that sets up the figure ground for the birth of the characters to be involved in the following storyline.  This is a fine tool and it adds not only to the suspense of this thriller: it gives evidence of  yet another aspect of Lindsay's skills. Let's hope he pursues this method and this quality of writing creativity.<br /><br />If there is a problem with the book, it is with the physical layout of the pages.  An editor's eye is sorely absent to catch the missing words or the split paragraphs and condensed insertion words.  But get past these technical issues and you're in for another exhilarating spin in the dark and picaresque drama of the streets.  Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-24
194931:US	52496677	RXEGV80AVDFSJ	0743229444	3624789	Love in a Dark Time: And Other Explorations of Gay Lives and Literature	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Colm T&oacute;ib&iacute;n, May His Tribe Increase!	Once captured by the liquid, informed prose of Colm T&oacute;ib&iacute;n it is difficult to ignore anything this brilliant writer has written.  Still under the spell of 'The Master' and having just sadly finished 'The Story of the Night' (that novel could have been extended another 300 pages!), it seemed only appropriate to read an investigative work, just to see how this man's mind absorbs and dissects the world of reality instead the one of fiction.<br /><br />Happily LOVE IN A DARK TIME is as fascinating a read as his novels.  T&oacute;ib&iacute;n searches the lives of many writers and artists asking how did/does their sexuality inform what they create.  After a few historic references regarding the gay aspects of Shakespeare, Christopher Marlowe, Melville, Joyce, Lorca, Yeats, Kafka, Proust, Gide et at, he analyses biographies (example: Lionel Trilling's bio of EM Forster) that appear unaware of the subject's sexual proclivities!  That thrusts us into the exploration of history before the term 'homosexual' was created, regards the aspects of 'the gay being', and proceeds to introduce postulates as to how the works created by nine particular people were deeply influenced by their sexuality, occult or accepted.<br /><br />What then follows is a richly detailed and elegant series of essays on Henry James, Oscar Wilde, Roger Casement (of The Black Diaries), Thomas Mann, Francis Bacon (the painter), Elizabeth Bishop, James Baldwin, Thom Gunn, Pedro Almodovar, and Mark Doty.  In each essay T&oacute;ib&iacute;n takes a new stance of investigation, finding incidents or traits in the lives of those discussed that allow 'stories' to develop naturally.<br /><br />For those who have read 'The Master' (T&oacute;ib&iacute;n's own \\"biography\\" of Henry James) this series of highly researched essays will come as no surprise.  T&oacute;ib&iacute;n's mind is rich with a plethora of books read and a penetrating mind that examines art from a vantage peculiar to a man that has arrived at the top of the heap in the field of literature.  For enjoyable and informative reading, LOVE IN  DARK TIME is a pearl.  And reading T&oacute;ib&iacute;n's older works only serves to whet the appetite for his next opus.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, June 05ble and informative reading, LOVE IN  DARK TIME is a pearl.  And reading Tibn's older works only serves to whet the appetite for his next opus.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-22
201987:US	52496677	R343N8KG5P0T7S	0425204138	727288860	The Maker's Diet	Books	3	24	37	N	N	Some Sound Concepts But Written with Bias	The original subtitle of this 'self-help book' cum 'spiritual journey journal' was \\"The 40 Day Health Experience That Will Change Your Life Forever\\" and for some reason that has been dropped for the more readily available paperback version. And perhaps with good reason: the new method living concept is here not limited to a 40 day experience but to a new emotional and psychological/spiritual approach to eating, exercise, homeopathic medicine, and meditation/prayer - a new lifestyle.<br /><br />Author Jordan S. Rubin makes this 'how to' book as much a physical biography as a health book.  His inception of the recommendations he makes as to help us escape the health issues that infringe on our enjoyment of living all reference his own confrontation with Crohn's Disease as a young man. Following (auspiciously) a 'biblical diet' he found his way to health and the book he has written details his gastroenteric journey to healthfulness of body, mind, and spirit.<br /><br />Though his writing style often makes the reader feel as though Rubin is talking down to us, his intentions are solid, and if he veers off into religious teachings a bit too often or makes bold statements that are difficult to support scientifically, then that is all part of the crusader's image that is often encountered in books such as this.<br /><br />In the final analysis, Rubin does offer some sound advice about food groups, balanced meals, mental exercise, and spiritual growth that should they disappoint those who buy this book to lose weight, at least  they offer healthy alternatives to some of the habits we all have that do not promote longevity much less  healthy bodies.  Not a book for everyone, but for those who don't mind a bit of preaching THE MAKER'S DIET can be helpful.  Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-16
202861:US	52496677	R2SMPQR8BKMGFJ	0743272714	66101030	The Story of the Night: A Novel	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A Timelessly Important Yet  Also  A Timely Novel	2005 and Argentina has just revoked amnesty for those responsible for the brutality and occult treachery of the Dirty War that ended with the overthrow of the military junta with the British defeat of Argentina's forces over the Falkland Islands.  And it is during this closure of a long suppressed circle that Colm Toibin's superb 1995 book THE STORY OF THE NIGHT comes back into circulation.  By all means read this book now not only to celebrate Toibin's genius but also to gain valuable insight into a political intrigue that has smoldered in Argentina for the past thirty years!<br /><br />Toibin conjoins the tale of a young lad Richard Garay, the son of a haughty British mother and an Argentine man whose childhood is disrupted by loss of income and instability of social presence, with  the general social and political upheaval in Argentina).  Richard moves from poverty and the death of his parents to teaching English in Buenos Aires and eventually comes into contact with an American couple Donald and Susan Ford who draw him into their hazy presence in the realm of political coups as an interpreter.  Through them he works to gain acceptance of the powerful Canetto family: the father wants to become President of the nascent democracy after the Falklands War has rid the country of the Generals.  Richard is a man in conflict: he envies the wealthy, he is gay, and he embodies the state of mind of surviving with a day persona of longing for order and rank which is antagonistic to his night persona of craving passion.<br /><br />Through a series of twists of fate Richard gradually comes into money by way of the prelude to oil privatization and after unsatisfying attempts at mating he finds love in Pablo Canetto, a handsome man who has likewise hidden his true identity from his family by fleeing to San Francisco's atmosphere.  The development of this profound love between Richard and Pablo, threatened as it is by nearly every aspect of life in Buenos Aires, forms the substance of this novel, that substance eloquently exploring the spectrum of love and loss as beautifully as any romance in literature.<br /><br />Colm Toibin is a master storyteller and one who has obviously scrupulously researched the time frame he has chosen for his novel.  Every character is painted well, there being no extraneous moments that are not additive to the story.  Toibin's prose is liquid and ravishingly beautiful and he is unafraid to present intimate physical encounters, knowing exactly how much to say without offending the senses of anyone.  This richly historic novel ends in a microcosm of a romance: the 'desaparecidos' of the dirty war are mirrored in the equally plangent wake of AIDS.<br /><br />The story is superb, the introduction to a heretofore vague history of South American coups is fascinatingly related, and above it all is the magic of Toibin's impeccable prose.  This is a book to read again and again. Highly Recommended. Grady Harp, June 05stance of this novel, that substance eloquently exploring the spectrum of love and loss as beautifully as any romance in literature. <br /> <br />Colm Toibin is a master storyteller and one who has obviously scrupulously researched the time frame he has chosen for his novel.  Every character is painted well, there being no extraneous moments that are not additive to the story.  Toibin's prose is liquid and ravishingly beautiful and he is unafraid to present intimate physical encounters, knowing exactly how much to say without offending the senses of anyone.  This richly historic novel ends in a microcosm of a romance: the 'desaparecidos' of the dirty war are mirrored in the equally plangent wake of AIDS.   <br /> <br />The story is superb, the introduction to a heretofore vague history of South American coups is fascinatingly related, and above it all is the magic of Toibin's impeccable prose.  This is a book to read again and again. Highly Recommended. Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-15
204256:US	52496677	R272M0D0RMP2AA	0810958945	335199298	Male Desire: The Homoerotic in American Art	Books	5	28	30	N	Y	An Insider's Perceptive Evaluation of an Important Art Body!	Jonathan Weinberg approaches the topic of MALE DESIRE: THE HOMOEROTIC IN AMERICAN ART with the requisite credentials to support this fine book in any art circle.  Not only is he a fine painter (unfortunately this book includes only one of the author's paintings), but he is an art historian of note, having served as both scholar and artist in residence at the Getty Center in Los Angeles and as recipient of the Guggenheim Fellowship in 2002.  Weinberg writes well, always with authority but with  concurrent warmth that makes his presentation more like a fascinating novel than an art historian treatise.<br /><br />After a terse but informative introduction explaining 'Male Desire' and the pr&eacute;cis for this book, Weinberg divides his survey of art in all forms spanning from 1884 to 2003 in to seven interesting approaches: Water, The Man in Uniform, I Want Muscle, Measurement and Circles, Collaborators, The New Adam, and finally, The Age of Aids.  In each chapter he shows the evolution of technique, social approach to male art, and individual artists who either painted homoerotic paintings or championed them or (in most cases) both.  Weinberg tactfully uses references from artists' statements when possible and while negotiating the place of each artist in the fabric of the time in which each worked, he also enhances the reader's appreciation by commenting on each artist's technique - a factor not usually found in surveys such as this.<br /><br />Of course it would be too voluminous to include ALL of the artists in America whose output could be additive to homoeroticism and Weinberg elects to choose fewer artists with multiple examples of each selected artist's work to demonstrate his points.  Among the artists included are Thomas Eakins, John Singer Sargent, Charles Demuth, Paul Cadmus, Jared French, George Bellows, Thomas Pollock Anschutz, Jess, Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper Johns, Theophilus Brown, Wynn Chamberlain,  Don Bachardy, as well as photographers Robert Mapplethorpe, Duane Michaels, John Dugdale, Mark Morrisoe, Arthur Tress, Lynn Ashton Harris, Andres Serrano, and John O'Reilly.  As is any writer's prerogative he elects to not include some of today's top painters in this tradition such as Wes Hempel, Wade Reynolds, Gerard Huber, Jack Balas, Forrest Williams, Robert Gil de Montes, etc etc, but then those just may be waiting another volume!<br /><br />Immensely readable and informative, Weinberg has quite successfully married scholarship with a lavish layout of rich reproductions of art that make this a book to treasure.  Highly Recommended. Grady Harp, June 05horpe, Duane Michaels, John Dugdale, Mark Morrisoe, Arthur Tress, Lynn Ashton Harris, Andres Serrano, and John O'Reilly.  As is any writer's prerogative he elects to not include some of today's top painters in this tradition such as Wes Hempel, Wade Reynolds, Gerard Huber, Jack Balas, Forrest Williams, Robert Gil de Montes, etc etc, but then those just may be waiting another volume! <br /> <br />Immensely readable and informative, Weinberg has quite successfully married scholarship with a lavish layout of rich reproductions of art that make this a book to treasure.  Highly Recommended. Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-14
206714:US	52496677	R1Z7GBX7LDXRFF	0870701592	580522196	The New Museum Of Modern Art	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A Small but Concise and Visually Appealing Inside Look	For those of us who will have to wait until our next trip to New York to see the newly refurbished and designed Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan, this little book by Glenn D Lowry offers a fine history and background on the new museum as designed by architect Taniguchi.  The book is filled with excellent photographs of the various aspects of the museum including views from inside to the outside, a sense of the ambience of the building, and a fine demonstration of how the space greets its mission of displaying art.<br /><br />A fine addition to the book is an essay by Terence Riley with snapshots that takes us step by step through the process of building the edifice and in doing so presents a fine mini-history of the old vs the new building.<br /><br />This well designed and beautifully illustrated book is a fine introduction to one of the more important museums of the world and appears to be a superb introduction to understanding the new landmark before visiting the New MOMA.  Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-12
206755:US	52496677	R1ZNH0IYCYDA3R	158567642X	778703384	Hans Christian Andersen	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Radically Bizarre Source for the Best Fairy Tales	HANS CHRISTIAN ANDERSEN as written by Jens Andersen and beautifully translated form the Danish by Tiina Nunnally is that sort of biography we all long to read: the facts are all well-researched, the data is all in place, but the book reads like a novel.<br /><br />Andersen's background is a fairytale unto itself and if ever there was a man whose beginnings belied his later success and durability as a writer, this man is it.  Gratefully his oeuvre was appreciated in his lifetime and his wondrous tales have pleasured young and old alike for well over a hundred years.  In his native Denmark he is considered a near 'saint' and his books have been translated into every language and are in the homes of children of all ages throughout the world.<br /><br />This biography is, thankfully, not afraid to discuss those darker aspects of Andersen's life, but the way in which the author deals with this difficult information is the model of excellent reportage.  The narrative style of Andersen on Andersen is by far the most positive aspect of this fine book.<br /><br />Despite the weight (over 600 pages) of this tome, it is not daunting in the least.  It reads quickly and entertainingly and is as fine as any biography of the world's favorite children's writer on the shelves.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-12
207539:US	52496677	R3ILG2AMOH935O	1555838596	164249219	Back Where He Started: A Novel	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Starting Over	Jay Quinn has a gift for creating three-dimensional characters who become so visual on the written page that they seem like people out of a scrapbook from our own past.  He tells a story that keeps our interest in a page-turning mode until the conclusion and along the way he manages to render some very fine prose and metaphors and always encourages us to become involved not only in his story but in some self-introspection.<br /><br />BACK WHERE HE STARTED  is a tale of a poor kid Chris who happens to be attractive and whose life changes when he meets the Man of his Dreams Zack, a man whose is recently widowed and is left to raise three children - Trey, Andrea and Schooner.  For 22 years Chris and Zack have a near perfect 'marriage' and while Zack continues his successful profession, Chris becomes the mom to the kids.  When Zack abruptly ends his relationship with Chris in favor of marrying his pregnant associate Alicia, Chris' life turns upside down and he is faced with losing everything - despite the fact that Zack has provided for Chris' life monetarily under the guardian ship of Trey, the oldest son.<br /><br />Chris mourns then rages at his new single status, but with the complete support of his well-raised children he takes a big breath and begins a life alone. In time he meets Steve, a hero with a big heart and a passion for the sea and the land around where Chris has relocated - the beach of Emerald Isle off North Carolina.  Steve and Chris eventually bond and are accepted by Steve's extended family and Chris' children and begin a second life together.  Along the way we meet Chris' friends - a psychiatrist and his wife who provide work for Chris, the Catholic priest of the parish, Chris' children's mates including a touching 'coming out' of Chris' youngest son Schooner for whom Chris provides a loving atmosphere for the pairing, Chris' decorator friend, the local vet, etc.  Chris and Steve weather a hurricane that not only secures their bond but also leads to open windows on each other's lives.<br /><br />It is refreshing to read Jay Quinn.  He avoids most of the melodrama that can seep into a tale of this sort and he manages to provide a manual about family and parenting that is as sound as to be found in any book.  Some quirks can become wearing - for some reason Quinn's constant emphasis on smoking borders on a commercial for cigarettes and in a time when smoking is a proven medical problem it is not only not additive to the story (must everyone smoke?) but also mildly annoying.  This reader kept expecting some revelatory sidebar of having one of the characters die of lung cancer!<br /><br />But small issues aside, BACK WHERE HE STARTED continues Quinn's reputation as a fine writer of well molded and deeply felt fictional novels and just makes us eager for the next one!  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, June 05s to open windows on each other's lives. <br /> <br />It is refreshing to read Jay Quinn.  He avoids most of the melodrama that can seep into a tale of this sort and he manages to provide a manual about family and parenting that is as sound as to be found in any book.  Some quirks can become wearing - for some reason Quinn's constant emphasis on smoking borders on a commercial for cigarettes and in a time when smoking is a proven medical problem it is not only not additive to the story (must everyone smoke?) but also mildly annoying.  This reader kept expecting some revelatory sidebar of having one of the characters die of lung cancer! <br /> <br />But small issues aside, BACK WHERE HE STARTED continues Quinn's reputation as a fine writer of well molded and deeply felt fictional novels and just makes us eager for the next one!  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, June 05 <br /> <br />	2005-06-12
209981:US	52496677	R1J2NGY9XDLQR2	0971703116	741929991	Green Weenies and Due Diligence: Insider Business Jargon-Raw, Serious and Sometimes Funny	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Every term you ever wanted to know but were afraid to ask	Ron Sturgeon has accomplished far more than he set out to do in writing this creative, imaginative, and thoroughly entertaining book:  not only has he unraveled the secret terminology of the powerful Inner America of Big Business, he has served it up in an astute and often hilarious parody of how the Big Guys talks.<br /><br />Using a format that is incisive yet instructional, Sturgeon's GREEN WEENIES AND DUE DILIGENCE unearths the phrases and terms that make the corporate world sting and defines them then uses them in examples that not only are suitable but also poignant.  From 'Alpha Dog' to 'Pencil Whip' to 'Nibbled by ducks' and 'Three finger booger' Sturgeon whips out the phrases like a pro. His lists are alphabetically arranged - a fact that allows the neophyte at the boardroom table to utilize this knowledgeable manual sub rosa while appearing to pay attention to the gobbledygook topside.<br /><br />Though some of the terms (no, many of them!) are hilarious out of context, they can be vitriolic in context and most assuredly enhance the readers' view of how the corporate mind works.  To add to the success of the book, Sturgeon has enlisted the brilliant artist Gahan Wilson to make the whole book visually exciting.  This is a treasure map to the jargon of the tall steel palaces that mastermind the workings of us all.  Welcome to it and Bravo to Sturgeon for an ingenious concept well done! Highly recommended. Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-09
213795:US	52496677	R37VW29CWMHZR3	0393058530	546536256	Full Bloom: The Art and Life of Georgia O'Keeffe	Books	4	21	22	N	N	More than you ever wanted to know about Georgia O'Keeffe	Hunter Drohojowska-Philp is a sound writer, one who obviously does her research inexhaustibly, and with a background in art criticism she also speaks with authority and an informed eye. But she does go on....<br /><br />For those who want to know more about the idiosyncrasies of this American idol then this is the resource of choice. We learn more about the frustrations, self doubt, love affairs, and general personality quirks than in all the other biographies combined. We also learn about each painting in depth which I suppose is like a verbal catalogue raissonne and for that we should be thankful.<br /><br />It is just that with all great artists not everything they make is of show quality and it is this inclusion of all of the odds and major ends of O'Keeffe's work that borders on tiresome. It is with a good degree of relief that the last page of this nearly 500-page opus is reached.<br /><br />Hunter Drohojowska-Philp obviously holds Georgia O'Keeffe in a realm close to Valhalla and that is all well and good. She writes with vigor and determination and certainly informs us of the 'full bloom' of her title. In the end this is a valuable volume for the archives, but not a book to recommend for the casual reader who has already grown visually fatigued with the Santa Fe posters of poppies, ox skulls, and datura flowers. Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-06
214014:US	52496677	R1R8A8KEHXIQQC	1560256389	284225339	Families of Value: Personal Profiles of Pioneering Lesbian and Gay Parents	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Powerful Argument for Same-Sex Parenting	Robert Bernstein knows how to make a point: let the subjects speak for themselves!  This well prepared, eminently readable book tackles the currently high profile topic of not only same-sex marriages but more poignantly same-sex parenting.  In an introduction Bernstein presents a brief history of his topic and a pr&eacute;cis  that informs us that the families discussed in the book are not randomly chosen: the families here represented are \\"leaders in bringing about the social change that is gradually easing the way to their acceptance.\\"  And so we are fairly informed that the contents of this valuable document will be skewed toward the hard work of some prime examples of same-sex parents and their respective children with the hope that reading these varying experiences will foster understanding and appreciation for the valiant work of the subjects chosen.<br /><br />Not that Bernstein is out to preach: quite the contrary, by translating in to eloquent language the trials and tribulations of six families of varying backgrounds and living situations he lets the histories make their own powerful points.  The families represented demonstrate the fact that children raised by same-sex parents do not 'adopt' same-sex life styles because of their parents.  The children here described reveal the peer punishment and rejection in the schoolyard, and yet in most cases once the children are open about their parents' life style instead of hiding for fear their peers will discover it, the children fit comfortably into the system.<br /><br />Bernstein makes many tender and important observations: same-sex parents (especially gay men) tend to make better parents because they desperately WANT to be parents in a society where they must struggle for the privilege as opposed to many straight families whose children my be 'biologic accidents in timing' and/or viewed as contributing to the financial and stability problems faced by those who marry too young.<br /><br />In addition to providing evidence that children of same-sex parents are sound, healthy and well-adjusted and that same-sex parents (at least those here represented) are passionately devoted and dedicated to the enviable privilege of parenting, Bernstein follows his book with Appendices that are informative, enlightening, and offer answers to frequently asked questions about same-sex unions and other sociologic avenues of interest that provide sound structure to his basic pr&eacute;cis.  This is an excellent book for the general public, especially at this point of time in our history, and it is also a reassuring work for the many men and women who are currently struggling with the public concept of their plight.  Highly recommended reading.  Grady Harp, June 05ding evidence that children of same-sex parents are sound, healthy and well-adjusted and that same-sex parents (at least those here represented) are passionately devoted and dedicated to the enviable privilege of parenting, Bernstein follows his book with Appendices that are informative, enlightening, and offer answers to frequently asked questions about same-sex unions and other sociologic avenues of interest that provide sound structure to his basic prcis.  This is an excellent book for the general public, especially at this point of time in our history, and it is also a reassuring work for the many men and women who are currently struggling with the public concept of their plight.  Highly recommended reading.  Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-06
214060:US	52496677	R1NXUUQO2QSZEJ	1556592221	815910251	A Palace of Pearls	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Into something rich and strange....	Jane Miller stands on a unique minaret in contemporary poetry.  She writes of moments of ecstasy from a medieval land (the Arab kingdom of al-Andalus), an illusionary/delusional place where there is complete harmony of Muslims, Christian, and Jews.<br /><br />Her rambling, exquisitely beautiful poems incorporate such luminaries as Federico Garcia Lorca and her moments of ecstatic vagaries caress the eye and ear like dabs of iridescent paint on a gold-grounded canvas.  And from this richly romantic vantage she weaves her magic into contemporary settings like a siren on the rocks of ancient oceans.  \\"Wherever they fell their bodies were buried/the custom was to sit down to one's drink/of an evening which was often incomplete/without a fight or a visit to a brothel/one can still see a girl astride a customer.../more likely than not she was not a slave...\\"<br /><br />Miller is a visionary, a microscopically detailed mind able to make visual her dreams, and for those dreams we are the richer.  At a time like this she still leads the path to our bliss.  Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-06
214290:US	52496677	R1XPP02WCCTR1P	159200864X	526706887	Maran Illustrated Piano	Books	4	19	19	N	N	And now Yes, You Too can really learn to play the piano!	For all the many self-help, how-to books published The Maran Family has polished the book-led guide to learning to a fare-thee-well. This well-conceived and very well written book is an excellent introduction to the joys of sitting down in front of a piano keyboard and actually creating music instead of fantasies.<br /><br />As one of the maranGraphics books (others include such wide ranging topics as Weight Training, Computer Guides, Dog training, Guitar, Yoga, and Knitting and Crocheting!), this volume uses the technical consulting of Frank Horvat, a composer, performer and piano teacher, and then applies the approach to the keyboard in a highly visual series of photographs and schematics that begin a survey of the types of keyboard instruments, the history of the piano, and progress to the basics of what makes a piano make music and ultimately walks the willing student through a very sound technique of learning.<br /><br />As a life-long pianist I am amazed at the facility developed in this beautifully designed book.  For those who question learning to play the piano by a 'how to' book, just peruse the careful steps and clarity of instruction offered by this helpful guide.  Much musicology is included and many examples of fine piano music are used in the lessons.  Whether it is the classical route you wish or the popular medium of chord based music or the intricacies of blues and improvisation, the steps are here.  At the end of the book is a fine discussion on how to choose your piano from the many types that exist and even a discussion on the various periods of piano music history (although brief these are succinctly to the point).<br /><br />Terrific for the adults who moan 'if I'd only taken lessons as a child' as well for the young students who are willing to commit to the goal of learning to 'make their own music', this Illustrated Guide to the Piano is a solid source of didactics.  And for those addicted to the computer, there are even \\"MP3 files available to listen to and play along with for all the chords, scales, exercises and practice pieces in this book.\\"  Truly a book for the 21st Century!  Grady Harp, June 05ilable to listen to and play along with for all the chords, scales, exercises and practice pieces in this book.\\"  Truly a book for the 21st Century!  Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-06
215177:US	52496677	R211SCTJAUO5NY	0385511809	740331338	Saturday: A novel	Books	5	5	10	N	N	When the Telling is more than the Tale	Some writers concern themselves with plot and heed all the rules and intricacies of literary tradition to put the story first, the characters a close second, and the afterburn third, etc.  Ian McEwan has proved in previous books that he knows how to spin a yarn, but in SATURDAY he also demonstrates that he can weave internalized thoughts, the machinations of a single day as it plays through one man's mind with an uncanny skill.  In many ways SATURDAY  is similar to Virginia Woolf's single day in the life of MRS DALLOWAY in that a whole lifetime of experience, memory, recall, regret, and reaction to an event can be distilled into a single twenty-four hour period.<br /><br />McEwan wisely elects to place his neurosurgeon Perowne - a man of great scientific intellect and surgical prowess whose profoundly important family includes a brilliant lawyer wife, a poet daughter studying in Italy, and a rock musician son - in a setting of a day during organized antiwar protests fill the streets.  Aware of the impact of 9/11 on the world (especially on Blair's stance for England's vigilance, Perowne is awaken by a menacing plane crash, a session of love making with his wife, a squash game with his anesthesiologist friend, preparations for his Italian student daughter's coming home dinner, a side visit to his senile mother in her nursing home, and an incidental brush with thugs during a traffic jam response to the demonstrations.  All of these incidents come home, literally, when his family gathers and is disrupted by one of the thugs Perowne encountered, resulting in a near tragedy that provides closure when Perowne returns to his hospital to operate on the neurologically impaired intruder. A busy day, this Saturday, but the ramifications of each of the rapidly progressing incidents are far greater that the individual episodes. And why?<br /><br />Because McEwan molds words like a magician.  His knowledge of his subject is astoundingly accurate: the ease in which Perowne thinks through the workings of the brain and its anatomy and the facility he demonstrates in describing not only complex neurosurgery, but also the mechanics of a squash game, poetic references from his daughter, musical information coalesced by his son, and the rare insight into the family unit interactions form a grandfather of letters to a mother of age-destroyed mentation - each of these zones he traverses with elegance of language and the gift of poetic prose.<br /><br />SATURDAY  is a novel to savour like an aged wine.  Read it slowly and often to witness just how fine Ian McEwan is as a writer. Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, June 05nks through the workings of the brain and its anatomy and the facility he demonstrates in describing not only complex neurosurgery, but also the mechanics of a squash game, poetic references from his daughter, musical information coalesced by his son, and the rare insight into the family unit interactions form a grandfather of letters to a mother of age-destroyed mentation - each of these zones he traverses with elegance of language and the gift of poetic prose. <br /> <br />SATURDAY  is a novel to savour like an aged wine.  Read it slowly and often to witness just how fine Ian McEwan is as a writer. Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-05
216285:US	52496677	R2R4HEF3KG2U18	029917574X	414125193	Manuel Puig And The Spider Woman: His Life And Fictions	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Illuminating Biography of Manuel Puig by his 'Spider Woman'	Suzanne Jill Levine was an intimate colleague, friend, devotee, and scholar of the late and much lamented brilliant Argentinean author Manuel Puig.  So tied to his childhood history and obsessions with the movies of the 30s and 40s and so in tune with his idiosyncratic, peripatetic life style, Levine seems the perfect embodiment of Puig's hallowed 'spider woman', making her the perfect foil for committing his biography to public books.<br /><br />Some would say the close proximity between Levine and Puig might not result in an accurately critical analysis of the artist's life and work, but Levine avoids that pious hagiography by showing us a three dimensional character more than other writers have been able to produce.<br /><br />Puig was born in a poor sector of Argentina, the child of a tattered family, his only escape from the tragedy of everyday life was in his beloved movies - the art form that influenced his life and his creative output more than any other stimulus.  Though he enjoyed rather early success as a writer after moving to Buenos Aires (and subsequently to Rome, Paris, London, New York, Sweden, etc), he eventually lived in Hollywood splendor in Rio de Janeiro where his most famous works were published and his reputation as Latin America's first Pop novelist was firmly established.<br /><br />Puig lived in a cinematic world finding that the real world never really equaled the promise of the movie world.  His sexual proclivities included his penchant for essentially unavailable straight men and though  surrounded by devoted admirers, he could not escape the obsession that time was eroding and deteriorating his life in a way only explained by such delusions as that of, say, Oscar Wilde's 'Dorian Gray'.<br /><br />But Levine has the sensitivity and intelligence to include detailed accounts of each of Puig's literary works, giving very valuable insights to his compulsion of writing 'The Kiss of the Spider Woman' first as a novel, then play, then movie, and ultimately as a Broadway musical. Such thorough knowledge and elegant writing style that Levine uses in dissecting the impact of this one work is indicative of the fullness of this fine biography. This is a book rich in color and flavor AND scholarship and for this reader it is the finest biography of the fascinating Manuel Puig yet published.  Grady Harp, June 05and ultimately as a Broadway musical. Such thorough knowledge and elegant writing style that Levine uses in dissecting the impact of this one work is indicative of the fullness of this fine biography. This is a book rich in color and flavor AND scholarship and for this reader it is the finest biography of the fascinating Manuel Puig yet published.  Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-04
220763:US	52496677	R1OT2EO4L88B61	0393051978	469915914	The Wounded Surgeon: Confession and Transformation in Six American Poets (Robert Lowell, Elizabeth Bishop, John Berryman, Randall Jarrell, Delmore Schwartz and Sylvia Plath)	Books	4	16	21	N	N	Poetic Purging	Adam Kirsch has written an interesting 'surgical procedure' in the THE WOUNDED SURGEON: he defends the so-called 'Confessional Poets' Robert Lowell, Elizabeth Bishop, Sylvia Plath, John Berryman, Randall Jarrell, and Delmore Schwartz whose work from 1940 through the 1970s, praising \\"the resolve, not to say heroism, that these poets displayed by submitting their most intimate and painful experiences to the objective discipline of art.\\"<br /><br />In clear and at all times illuminating prose Kirsch examines each of these six poets and relates the personal lives that influenced their major works.  Not a gossip column this, but an erudite exploration of how pain and death and disappointment and tragedy of all manner drove these poets to validate their own sorrows and rage rather that imagining those feelings or assigning them to fictitious personages.<br /><br />While most everyone knows the life and times and resulting poetry of Sylvia Plath (endless biographies and films have seen to that), few of the others' lives are understood. Kirsch sets the record straight and in doing so makes lucid some of the more obtuse works included in this book.<br /><br />Some would argue that Kirsch's thesis goes on too long, but in getting into the minds and hearts of poets can be a lengthy process. Kirsch has done a fine job of study on these six poets and lets us see how their art transformed their lives by their confessional poetry. Grady Harp, June 05	2005-06-01
221178:US	52496677	R38UYXHM0VK7U0	0900406828	28633946	Paul Strand: Sixty Years of Photographs (Aperture Monograph S)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Valedictory for a Great Artist	PAUL STRAND: SIXTY YEARS OF PHOTOGRAPHS is an immensely successful book.  Not only is it a true pleasure to renew acquaintance with the famous images of Paul Strand, it is the knowledge that Strand himself selected the images to be included in this book just before his death in 1976.  Calvin Tomkins provides a sensitive and insightful history and eulogy and elected to include documents of Strand's correspondence and various writings to round out this memento mori.<br /><br />But words are words and cannot begin to explain the simple, haunting beauty of the photographic images of Paul Strand.  Whether the viewer's preference is for the portraits of mesmerizing faces captured in the direct simplicity of an encounter on the street or for the light sculpted landscapes or the still life images that are rich in metaphor, this collection of Strand's work is simply impeccable.  The only appropriate words this reviewer can summon would be those encouraging lovers of fine art to buy this collection.  It is Strand's own valedictory to an immeasurably important career.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-31
223316:US	52496677	RL7VGO8L6EVJU	0976476509	280438285	California New Old Masters	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Fascinating and Reassuring Turnaround in Art Trends	Donald Kuspit has been a respected writer and critic for the fine arts for many years.  In this superb monograph/catalogue that accompanied an exhibition by the same name, Kuspit makes the case for the resurgence of meaningful art, art that is based on observation, conceptualization and execution by artists thoroughly trained.<br /><br />Descrying the current movements in art that deal with installation, graffiti, video, etc. Kuspit exclaims \\"Making art has become a case of putting on the emperor's new clothing and getting away with it - calling raw life interesting art and convincing people that it is.\\"  For Kuspit art has become a 'decadent farce', that the art scene now is like a cult rather than an ongoing platform for artists to open the aesthetic pathways for viewers' eyes and souls.<br /><br />The book features the art of such fine representational artists as F. Scott Hess, Marc Trujillo, Ron Rizk, Dan McCleary, James Doolin, Enjeong Noh, Guy Diehl, Masami Teraoka among others.  The reproductions are good and the placement of dialogue with art is thoughtful.<br /><br />But by far the most interesting aspect of this very readable book is the philosophy of Donald Kuspit.  It is reassuring that a man of his dignity in the field of arts writing is here to champion representational art of lasting effect and elegant workmanship.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-30
224352:US	52496677	R2A79O2M6YIMNC	1931982546	813642642	Journey To Bom Goody	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Myriad Metaphors Woven into a Tapestry of Intrigue	Karen Heuler. Where does this writer find such strange stories in a mind that is so obviously rich in scientific data and investigative techniques?  As her baseline of readership grows from her early terse short stories through her first fascinating novel THE SOFT ROOM to this most recent novel THE JOURNEY TO BOM GOODY the evidence mounts that here is a voice that will influence other fine contemporary writing that embraces intellectual challenges wrapped in eloquent, picturesque prose.<br /><br />THE JOURNEY TO BOM GOODY is a superb story on many levels: the obvious tale of a journey up the Amazon River into the rain forests that shroud 'primitive civilizations' rich in folklore and communication with nature in a lost Eden and the two \\"invaders\\" who seek to find its secrets; an experiment from the mind of a older, disillusioned man who longs to study the impact on introducing the \\"civilized world\\" via television shows to unbiased tabula rasa minds of natives that serves as a powerful treatise on the impact of our media blitz on the analogous minds of our own children in their fragile state; the greed and misplaced ignominy of ferreting out homeopathic/naturopathic herbal remedies from the shamans of the Amazon by a woman trapped in social stigma of an outside world contemporary female without the sensitivity that such visitations could easily expose 'pure natives' to \\"civilized\\" diseases merely by her journey.<br /><br />Fold these underlying concepts into a novel that celebrates the creation of indelibly drawn characters in a setting that conjures the smells, botanical wonders, intemperate atmosphere, and the mysteries of the Amazon and the result is a completely fascinating JOURNEY to the elusive village of BOM GOODY.  Forbes is an older gentleman, a widower who lost both beloved wife and son, a man who desires to do something of significance during his otherwise disillusioned lifetime and so he sets out on the Amazon River on a barge loaded with generators, television sets and video tapes (Superman, I Love Lucy, game shows, etc) to gather information on how exposure to American culture will affect the various villages of Amazon natives virgin to such information.  He does not speak their language and is dependent on guides to translate.  As he moves deeper into the Amazon jungles his guides lose interest in the magic project and desert Forbes for their own fascination with the tales of Amazon Women, warriors who live without men yet remain drawn to the sirens.<br /><br />Along the way Forbes suffers a near critical spider bite and is discovered by Tina, an 'ethnobotanist, botanochemist' who is on her own mission to recover the healing native drugs (including fertility and contraceptive herbs) once discovered by her deceased mentor Nicole Maxwell and lost to American drug companies by the incompetence and greed of Men.  The two form an alliance: Tina speaks the Indian languages and Forbes does not, but their mutual companionship promises to benefit each other's scientific explorations.  The manner in which these two interact with the various characters they meet on their missions speaks loudly about the differences between the XX and XY gene pools, the strife those bilateral inequities produce and affect each other's resultant impact on the Indians of the Amazon and the peeling away of both Forbes' and Tina's tethering shells.<br /><br />The fine line between science and magic is under scrutiny: \\"We only say 'magic' when we don't know how something works yet.  Once it gets explained, it's no longer magic. But it wasn't all along, was it? It was always explainable.  Why should we lose interest when we know how it works? Isn't it even better then?  Amazing how it works, wonderful that we figured it out.\\"  And when children having seen Forbes' Superman videos paint their bodies with a large S and jump from trees to fly like the hero but instead fall and are injured, the stunned Forbes tells the parents he gave them the videos\\"..just so you would 'think' about it...I wanted your  opinion on what you saw - I wanted to know what you think about people who live that way.\\"  And when Tina sees the result of her introduction of 'outside disease' into this innocent Eden, she bemoans her unintentional and thoughtless destruction.  \\"..her culture sucked the juice out of another culture and, usually, ended up destroying it......Wasn't it inevitable, whether she was here or not?  She couldn't stop the incredible acquisitiveness of her nation's gas-guzzling, air-conditioned, garbage-strewing population....\\"<br /><br />But these moments are but a few of the jewels that grace the pages of this inordinately well-written novel.  The story is rich, the messages are deeply burrowed but easily acccessible, the all in all there are few tales as keen as Heuler's JOURNEY TO BOM GOODY.  Highly Recommended for all lovers of good books.  Grady Harp, May 05he videos \\"..just so you would 'think' about it...I wanted your  opinion on what you saw - I wanted to know what you think about people who live that way.\\"  And when Tina sees the result of her introduction of 'outside disease' into this innocent Eden, she bemoans her unintentional and thoughtless destruction.  \\"..her culture sucked the juice out of another culture and, usually, ended up destroying it......Wasn't it inevitable, whether she was here or not?  She couldn't stop the incredible acquisitiveness of her nation's gas-guzzling, air-conditioned, garbage-strewing population....\\" <br /> <br />But these moments are but a few of the jewels that grace the pages of this inordinately well-written novel.  The story is rich, the messages are deeply burrowed but easily acccessible, the all in all there are few tales as keen as Heuler's JOURNEY TO BOM GOODY.  Highly Recommended for all lovers of good books.  Grady Harp, May 05    <br /> <br />	2005-05-29
227254:US	52496677	R2XJ9D5251V44G	3931613666	431101483	Male Perceptions	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Sumer is icumen in...	For an uplifting, refreshing look at young men in their peak of fitness, athleticism, and masculine beauty MALE PERCEPTIONS  by photographer Thorsten Horvath is an excellent excursion.  Not only are the models carved and perfectly proportioned, they are captured by Horvath with a sense of celebration that makes these beautifully composed photographs vibrant.  And though this is an excellent source for those who care about physical fitness, or those who reference photographs for figurative painting and sculpting, this is also a book that simply makes the viewer feel healthy and ready for the summer sun days ahead.  Shot in various locations and using models from around the world, this collection of male photographs would be a welcome addition for the coffee table the patio or the spa.  It is a zesty collection that pays homage to youth and beauty.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-26
229356:US	52496677	R21R9993DZE5L3	0970909020	880514679	Cindy Sherman: Centerfolds	Books	3	6	7	N	N	An Early Look at Cindy Sherman's Art	Cindy Sherman is now an established household art figure, a photographer who spends her life costuming herself and arranging her settings to recreate or reinterpret other people both famous in art history and in other arenas.  These works are no longer shocking or startling, but the twelve 'Centerfolds' in this fine little book show her at an early stage in a career that has since burgeoned.<br /><br />As far as the Centerfolds themselves, each is a self portrait in different but drab dress and moods. While the concept of viewing the standard plain woman in the guise of what is usually associated as a Playboy etc venture of sizzling sensuality is a solid idea, the photographs themselves tend toward a sameness that makes them less interesting than her current work.<br /><br />Still, this was a pioneering commission by Artforum magazine that never made it to print and we are fortunate to see the images that found no home until the museums sought them out due to her growing fame.  It is another moment in history that bears observing.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-24
230121:US	52496677	R8R3MPZFG8PPW	0393058530	546536256	Full Bloom: The Art and Life of Georgia O'Keeffe	Books	4	5	5	N	N	More than you ever wanted to know about Georgia O'Keeffe	Hunter Drohojowska-Philp is a sound writer, one who obviously does her research inexhaustibly, and with a background in art criticism she also speaks with authority and an informed eye.  But she does go on.... <br /> <br />For those who want to know more about the idiosyncrasies of this American idol then this is the resource of choice.  We learn more about the frustrations, self doubt, love affairs, and general personality quirks than in all the other biographies combined.  We also learn about each painting in depth which I suppose is like a verbal catalogue raissonne and for that we should be thankful. <br /> <br />It is just that with all great artists not everything they make is of show quality and it is this inclusion of all of the odds and major ends of O'Keeffe's work that borders on tiresome.  It is with a good degree of relief that the last page of this nearly 500 page opus is reached. <br /> <br />Hunter Drohojowska-Philp obviously holds Georgia O'Keeffe in a realm close to Valhalla and that is all well and good.  She writes with vigor and determination and certainly informs us of the 'full bloom' of her title.  In the end this is a valuable volume for the archives, but not a book to recommend for the casual reader who has already grown visually fatigued with the Santa Fe posters of poppies, ox skulls, and datura flowers.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-24
231112:US	52496677	RRRYU30GSOQUD	1883318335	247411750	Symphony in Steel: Walt Disney Concert Hall Goes Up	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Little Photographic Memoir of an Important Edifice	Gary Leonard had a wise idea back in the days when the Walt Disney Concert Hall was crystallizing from a dream that combined the minds of architect Frank Gehry, Los Angeles Philharmonic conductor Esa-Pekka Salonen and acoustician Dr. Minoru Nagata.  From the 'breaking ground' photos to the completed 'living room for Los Angeles', Leonard has captured the business of digging, the scaffolding, the unfurling of the stainless steel sails of this floating ship of music along with some intimate shots of people's reactions to all phases.<br /><br />Now in its third year of use the Disney Concert Hall has lived up to and surpassed its claims as being one of the finest halls for hearing music in the world, competing with the Concertgebouw and the Berlin Philharmonic Hall among others.  For those who have had the exhilaration of attending concerts in this magnificent (if a bit physically uncomfortable) hall, this little book is a keepsake.  More importantly, for those who have only heard rumors about the grandeur of this edifice, this little book opens the structure for worldwide inspection.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-23
231348:US	52496677	R2ANCLW6KK6GW6	0500512175	257248173	Visual Music: Synaesthesia in Art and Music Since 1900	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Comprehensive, Novel Approach to a History of Abstract  Art	VISUAL MUSIC is first and foremost a traveling exhibition currently ensconced in the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles and as an exhibition it is informative, enlightening, well curated, and a unique way to study the history of Abstract Art from 1900 to 2004. One enters the large multi-room  experience with a stop in a darkened theater where films dating back to the early part of the 20th century explore pulsating, rhythmic, liquid and explosive images, some in black and white, some in color, some 'illustrating' music from Brahms to Dizzy Gillespie and some in complete silence.  The works are by such experimental artists as Oskar Fischinger, Len Lye and Harry Smith and the films have been restored admirably.<br /><br />The remainder of the walk through this marriage or courtship of visual images and music includes copious works by Kandinsky, Picabia, Klee, Ciurlionis, Kupka and many others, artists who sought to visualize the effect music has on the intellect and visual/aural 'synaesthesia' as the exhibition repeatedly explains.  Some rooms are for framed works, other rooms for video forms of digitalized art in motion, some are simply walls of lines and abstractions and others the idiosyncratic color organs - the true synthesis of visual art and musical performance.  The works representing today are from Jennifer Steinkamp in an elegant installation, Cindy Bernard, and Jim Hodges.<br /><br />Though this is not meant to be a survey of an exhibition, knowing the presentation of this VISUAL MUSIC concept heightens the appreciation of the stunning catalogue that accompanies this show.  From the sumptuous design elements to the splendid color reproductions to the scholarly essays, this is a book that is not an easy read but an important one.  From Jeremy Strick's cogent introduction to the book through essays on the history of abstraction and the concept of what stimulated artists to relate to music and why, to the significant 'in defense of pure music' essay by Olivia Mattis, this is a magnum opus on abstract art that is unique in every phase.  Kudos to the curators from the Hirschhorn (Kerry Brougher, Ari Wiseman) and MOCA's own Jeremy Strick.  Grady Harp, May 05.Olivia Mattis, this is a magnum opus on abstract art that is unique in every phase.  Kudos to the curators from the Hirschhorn (Kerry Brougher, Ari Wiseman) and MOCA's own Jeremy Strick.  Grady Harp, May 05.	2005-05-23
232889:US	52496677	R1MBM2TPYQZYJA	061841911X	373335589	February House: The Story of W. H. Auden, Carson McCullers, Jane and Paul Bowles, Benjamin Britten, and Gypsy Rose Lee, Under One Roof In Wartime America	Books	5	16	16	N	N	An American Bloomsbury Group	Have you ever wondered what it would be like to place many of your favorite artistic heroes in the same room and be a fly on the wall to hear the foment?  FEBRUARY HOUSE is that wish granted.  At least for this reader.<br /><br />The potent time is 1940 and 1941 when WW II was chewing up Europe and Asia and daily threatening to gorge the globe.  But at 7 Middagh Street in the somewhat seamy part of Brooklyn, a house owned by former Harper's Bazaar literary editor George Davis, several artists many of whose birthdays happened to be in the month of February set up an artist commune, eager for interplay with each other and all joined in the role of pacifists.  The housefolk included Carson McCullers, WH Auden and his 18 year old lover Chester Kallman, Thomas Mann's children Erika and Klaus Mann,  Benjamin Britten and Peter Pears, Gypsy Rose Lee (!)(as well as the occasional guests George Balanchine, Salvador Dali, Paul Cadmus, Diana Vreeland, Paul Bowles, Leonard Bernstein, Lincoln Kirsten among others.<br /><br />Uniting in both financial need and in political and artistic agendas, these greats interacted in ways both creative and destructive with the results ranging from famous collaborative efforts to drunken orgies to various intimate couplings and exchanges. Gypsy Rose Lee was the titular 'mother' and Auden the 'father' figure.<br /><br />'Biographies' such as this could easily become racy sensationalism were it not for the fact the writer Sherill Tippins relates this amazing household of geniuses with such skill and obvious love that we are able to simply enjoy the inner spins on the creative minds in February House.  For devotees of any or many of these creative minds' works, this little book is indispensable.  Warm, humorous, and very enlightening it illuminates a group of folk who for a period of time gave America its own Bloomsbury.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-21
233701:US	52496677	RUBFOAVEWNC55	3865210082	188314865	Mona Kuhn: Photographs	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Innocence and Sensuality in Eden	Mona Kuhn is a photographer of the private world.  She has a fine sense of composition and an even keener sense of her relationship to her subjects, whether drawing attention to a body part, a hand, a gaze, or a glimpse of atmosphere or setting.  There is nothing about her work that appears planned, though there is not a sense that these beautiful photographs are gleaned from a snapshot mentality.  They are the products of a thoughtful sensitive mind and eye - and persona.<br /><br />Kuhn understands her subjects not only from the anatomical and artful form of the body but also from the wispy  spirit that speaks privacy.  These subjects are engaged even though they may appear nonchalant.  Kuhn's images have a soft focus, and an even softer and shorter field of depth, factors that produce a sense of respect, almost an homage to the subjects.  While she favors the nude model, she avoids overtones of suggestion, and because of this approach, her subjects become even more intensely sensual: the sensuality comes from within as though the innocence of Eden is still tangent.<br /><br />This book is a fine representation of her work and leaves us asking for more.  If these images are wholly representative of how this fine artist sees the world, there should be many more monographs coming soon.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-20
234504:US	52496677	R3KK7JTKA60AX	0312315945	993897127	Magical Thinking: True Stories	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Wonderfully Peculiar Machinations of Burroughs' Mind!	\\"..'magical thinking'...is the belief that one exerts more influence over events than one actually has.\\"  And Augusten Burroughs collection of 'true stories' which usurps this term as title is so well written, so cogent, so occasionally intentionally offensive in one man's honest analysis of various situations and people, and so hilariously entertaining that for this reader makes it his best work to date.<br /><br />There is no linear storyline as those that sparkled in RUNNING WITH SCISSORS and DRY.  This instead is a selection/collection of daily journal entries from the bizarre life the author leads.  His warped childhood is again addressed, this time without the traumas that filled RUNNING, with such hilarious tales of his obsession with becoming a transsexual including the whole shopping bag of physical alterations open to such a change, his encounter with being a Barbizon model, dating experiences through the internet including a date with an undertaker, an odd shrink and other anomalous men, investigations into hair transplants and bodybuilding steroids, hiring Debby the housekeeper from Hades, to mention only a few.<br /><br />About half way though this book we meet Dennis, Burroughs' partner, and some of the relationship progress asides are very tender yet still funny.  With periodic diversions about what it feels like to go from alcoholic, drug-addled lost guy in his twenties through his success as an ad accountant, to his dream of becoming a New York Times Best Selling Author, we get to know the Augusten Burroughs of today.  And that man has insights into many political and social issues that become fodder for his comic style of conversing with us who become 'listeners' to the way his wild mind works.  His encounters with fans such as the little old lady who recognizes him on the street only to relate a childhood episode with Dr. Pepper used in a more than unusual way are not only thigh-slappingly funny, they are brilliantly written.  And on and on and on.<br /><br />Perhaps Burroughs  isn't for every reader's taste, but for those who are undaunted by his quirky and at times kinky observations always made from the vantage of a gay man with a twisted past, MAGICAL THINKING  is indeed magical writing.  Burroughs has a wit that is inimitable and we can only hope that he continues to keep his daily journals to share with us in subsequent books to keep us on our toes and to nurture our humor.  Augusten Burroughs is one fine writer!  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, May 05and on. <br /> <br />Perhaps Burroughs  isn't for every reader's taste, but for those who are undaunted by his quirky and at times kinky observations always made from the vantage of a gay man with a twisted past, MAGICAL THINKING  is indeed magical writing.  Burroughs has a wit that is inimitable and we can only hope that he continues to keep his daily journals to share with us in subsequent books to keep us on our toes and to nurture our humor.  Augusten Burroughs is one fine writer!  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-19
239919:US	52496677	R3IGTYDLI6YYI6	1413701949	964612587	My Last Breath	Books	3	24	32	N	N	Sincerity of Message, Clumsy in the Telling	MY LAST BREATH is a fine little promotional book about the importance of Suicide Prevention.  It is also an attempt to explore the 'near death episode' that peppers more and more self-help books.  Only in this memoir author Matthew D. Dovel recounts not one but two such episodes - the first as a drowning accident and the other as an unsuccessful, sloppy suicide attempt.  The facts are interesting if not original, but it is in the telling that his brief book falls short.<br /><br />First, in credibility: before the drowning episode Dovel had little affiliation with religion except for a couple of church attendances, so it seems odd that his vision while 'dead' should so quickly identify a readily recognizable God and Jesus and all the intricacies of Christianity.  Sounds a bit like recreating a scene retrospectively.  The second near death episode is one of the more bizarre recountings of the interactions of cocaine, alcohol and over-the-counter sleep meds.  If a mind is as altered as was the mind of Dovel during this episode of 'waking up', how would he be able to later transfer the process to the written word with such scientific exactitude?<br /><br />But the purpose of this book is not literary but rather as a platform for the author's commitment to Suicide Prevention Programs and for that reason it is worth perusing.  This information doubtless comes across better over the microphone than on the written page where it all reads in a rather clumsy fashion.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-15
241534:US	52496677	R6O8P3R643VHL	0786715448	275399844	What the L	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Hilarious, Intelligent, Informed, Wise Kate Clinton!	WHAT THE L? is one of the more satisfying books of Comedy that reminds us of the true definition of the term.  For centuries Comedy and those who practice it, be they Greek players, court jesters, standup comedians/comediennes, or tabloid philosophers such as Will Rogers, depends on searching for human foibles and folks along the edge or in prominent positions of power and bringing those absurdities into the focal field of the public eye.  Comedy's contralateral face is Drama/Tragedy and it is the admixture of the two that creates the pungent dialogue that induces gales of laughter followed by gasps of recognition of truths uncovered.<br /><br />Kate Clinton is a brilliant mind with a keen gift of finding the words and phrases to defuse popular heroes and heroines and myths and rumors and, yes, intolerable facts. Covering the years 2001 through 2004 she adroitly addresses issues of our government under the reign of King George Dubya and his smarmy court, gay marriage and all the implications of that nascent institution, such famous folk as Oprah Winfrey, Whoopi Goldberg, Hilary Clinton, Ellen Degeneres, gay and lesbian comics, global warming, and international political arenas - all with informed skill and fine writing.  She makes us laugh with her wit and candor and at times venomous diatribes but she also makes us think (remember 'thinking'?).<br /><br />Kate Clinton has been the Governor of New Jersey, a columnist for The Advocate, The Progressive, and has been on many talk shows and newscasts.  She is a 'Lesbian American', able to speak sensitively for minority groups, and able to inform us on nearly every topic that graces (and gets lost in) the media.  She is a true master of Comedy in the ancient sense.  And she is just plain hilarious!!!  Highly recommended reading ...and re-reading and re-reading.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-14
242370:US	52496677	RK0UK37O4U8U	1400062292	160342201	Campo Santo	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Great Enigma: History in Snapshots and Elegies	WG Sebald whose too early accidental death in 2001 is a much-lamented loss to the literary world he so quietly entered briefly before his demise.  He is a unique writer, one whose style includes ramblings and crude snapshots of incidental places that support his strange tales.  For many he is an acquired taste and only time will tell whether his honored books will withstand the test of immortality.  And that fact is very much in keeping with the worldview of this enormously gifted observer of the human condition and the plight of the individual played against the backdrop of history and melancholy.<br /><br />CAMPO SANTO is not a completely successful book in the manner of this highly praised novels.  But the very fact that his early departure from the writing stream impacted readers to the point of wanting more justifies this aggregation of four chapters of a novel based on Corsica and multiple lectures and essays and addresses. The book opens with a fine essay by editor Sven Meyer, a timetable that introduces Sebald to readers unfamiliar with his odd life.  The subsequent works are translated from the German by Sebald's longtime translator Anthea Bell.  And that fact introduces one of the many odd quirks in Sebald's career: why should a man who spent the better part of his expatriation from his native Germany teaching in England  write in German instead of his adopted language English?<br /><br />Perhaps one reason lies in the focus of each of Sebald's works.  His stories are travels and meanderings through various locations that serve as his platform for posing the question of history as memory, the unresolved restitution of Germany after WW II (a period he only knew from seeing the disastrous postwar results and reading the reflective works of other writers coping with the crossfire of guilt and sadness/remorse and anger - he was born in 1944), an the driving need to understand the role of mankind in the flux of a globe at unrest.<br /><br />Reading the first four chapters of CAMPO SANTO makes us wish he had completed this novel about Corsica and the fascination with the life of Napoleon who was born there.  But the saved fragments of this novel interrupted by his award-winning AUSTERLITZ are savory and contain many eloquent passages to assuage the reader longing for more.<br /><br />The remaining essays and lectures are dense and more cerebral but for those Sebald addicts there is much to digest about his thoughts and philosophy.  And for those readers especially this final book is a must for the library.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, May 05rst four chapters of CAMPO SANTO makes us wish he had completed this novel about Corsica and the fascination with the life of Napoleon who was born there.  But the saved fragments of this novel interrupted by his award-winning AUSTERLITZ are savory and contain many eloquent passages to assuage the reader longing for more. <br /> <br />The remaining essays and lectures are dense and more cerebral but for those Sebald addicts there is much to digest about his thoughts and philosophy.  And for those readers especially this final book is a must for the library.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-13
242837:US	52496677	R30BWEWRFC8KT1	087745924X	402021620	The Waiting (Iowa Poetry Prize)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Way Back Home	Megan Johnson is a poet new to me and reading these exquisitely formed and communicative poems opens windows of inspiration like few other young poets can.  Here are descriptions of the sensation, the actual feeling of loss - that void that seems to be the precipice of living - drawn so adroitly that we weep with the poet.<br /><br />But the enormity of Megan Johnson's talent goes beyond the time-honored language of weeping and wailing so glorified by the Romantics and instead offers the steely strong cable of defiance of sorrow in the at first floundering about for meaning to the persistent journey to achieve comfort.  These poems are indeed powerful and give notice of an original and potent new poetic voice.  Recommended.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-13
243092:US	52496677	R1BAC1H1QNP0MO	1594678669	871665073	Many Faces to Many Places	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good Message Searching for the Right Audience	Judy Azar LeBlanc is highly motivated to produce a small book that can easily be digested in an hour's time, a book of metaphors that places the various stages of spiritual awakening in the ubiquitous traveler called 'Many Faces'. Part fairy tale, part self help manual, part fantasia and part philosophy mini-course, the author seems to be unsure of the age group for which she is writing.<br /><br />Some would descry that the messages contained in this simplistic little book are universal and non-age dependent.  And theoretically that is true.  But if  story is to be directed at the preteen or early teen crowd then it seems more appropriately constructed than if it were meant for adult consumption.  The stumbling blocks in this book for this reader are the quality of writing, the florid use of awkward colloquialisms, the meandering focus between how a child is introduced to Happiness in the form of a talking butterfly or the 'evil' as embodied in a caricature King Ekaf or the ethereal as a mystical veil-cloaked spirit, and the progression of little Many Faces into concepts that will elude an audience of children if that is the intended group of readers.<br /><br />Weak on atmospheric rendering and on style of writing, this very well intended and motivated book falls short of significance in the realm of execution.  It is difficult to criticize a book whose precepts are so sound, but with so many self-help books available, this one needs a finer tuned audience direction.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-12
245178:US	52496677	R3T6GR1ICO46RZ	0595342922	530671087	Breakdown: Diamonds, Death, and Second Chances	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Looking in the Mirror and Saying I Love You	Reading the final pages of this richly relevant book is a bifid experience: the reader is bound to be sad the journey as story has ended  yet at the same time grateful for the evident spiritual growth the journey has provided.<br /><br />Gregory John DiStefano is first a superlative writer and it seems incredible this is his initial literary outing.  He writes with eloquent language, vivid verbal visualizations of myriad subjects, and with a keen sense of pacing that makes BREAKDOWN: DIAMONDS, DEATH, AND SECOND CHANCES  so much more than the usual 'confessional turned self-help' book.  This is a true story yet it surpasses memoir, so fine is the quality of writing.  There are moments when this book reads like a finely spun novel that make the reader hungry for more stories after the current one is told.<br /><br />DiStefano's childhood in a Roman Catholic family in Providence, RI included all the trappings of being an excellent student and athlete, yet this 'apple-of-the-eye' lad acknowledged early on some obsessions that predicted a duplicitous life: fame, fortune, glory, success were the public aspect of his persona while alcohol and a severe drug addition camouflaged his compulsion to act out on his dangerous sadomasochistic sexual addiction, a role as a gay man he was unable to replace with healthy gay relationships (his childhood included soliciting gay sex from straight men when he was only eleven, always desiring the demeaning role).<br /><br />DiStefano was graduated from university but fled to New York where he gradually became involved with the PR industry, living the highlife of stars, wealth, exotic travel, and heavy drugs.  At one point he acknowledges his disenchantment with the real world and longs to find some inner peace.  \\"The hardest thing in life is letting go of what one believes is real. Grappling for something to grasp on to, I, too, was caught up in a smoke and mirror show...The VIP room, a reflection of ego, was a hollow, cold, meaningless tomb.\\" He and his close friend Spiros set out on a journey to India and the East where he encounters avatars and spiritualists who introduce the yet skeptical DiStefano to the importance of the inner self/God. He explores Hindu philosophy, finds consolation in the Quakers' concept of God as based on the individual conscience, channeling - all manner of non-Christian philosophy he knew so well but found wanting.<br /><br />Feeling an enriched person, he returns to the US only to re-enter the rat race of public appearances, gaining the lavish position of PR person for the De Beers diamond cartel, winning awards for this style while he became more deeply involved with cocaine, booze, Ecstasy and other designer drugs.  One last promotion to the helm of PR for a disingenuous diamond dealer and DiStefano plunges toward near death and failure.  This breakdown serves as his salvation as he migrates to Florida and begins his slow regrowth to wholeness. Joining AA he reaches the pit of his soul and embraces all of the spiritual elements to which he has been exposed and finds in himself a person he can finally love.  \\"...the cravings for drugs and alcohol almost completely disappeared.  Equally incredible, the incessant fantasies of sexual humiliation - that no amount of intellectual therapy could ever heal - also dissipated. At first I thought it was a miracle. But with its emphasis on surrender instead of control, cooperation rather than domination, forgiveness as opposed to punishment, and, as its driving force, self-love instead of self-loathing so central to the S&M mindset, a spiritual solution suddenly seem obvious. For whatever the reason, I was finally free from bondage.\\"<br /><br />The inner person of Gregory John DiStefano uncovered by this immense journey is one we grow to love and honor.  BREAKDOWN is so much more than the multitude of celebrity recovery books that weight the shelves of bookstores.  While the final chapter may come close to pollyannaism, the book as a book is an inordinately fine example of fine writing.  Yes, the message DiStefano was destined to deliver is loud and clear.  But it is the  complete joy of discovering a gifted writer on his first venture that is equally as satisfying.  Highly Recommended Reading and I hope more books are fomenting in this fertile writer's mind!  Grady Harp, May 05the book as a book is an inordinately fine example of fine writing.  Yes, the message DiStefano was destined to deliver is loud and clear.  But it is the  complete joy of discovering a gifted writer on his first venture that is equally as satisfying.  Highly Recommended Reading and I hope more books are fomenting in this fertile writer's mind!  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-11
248285:US	52496677	R2LBUJQT08OB9S	0974635340	264387449	Reverse Rapture	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Uniquely Refreshing Voice	Reading Dara Wier is an experience dissimilar to reading other poets.  Her means of expression fall into formats that do not resemble the expected poetic devices - free verse, complex constructions according to rules, etc.  Instead she weaves her magic through fragments that allow the reader to connect in ways that are myriad.  Extended poems in phrases all parenthetical may be visually jarring, may find you pleading for the initial thought to which the parenthetical phrase refers, but relax with the flow of Wier's style and the result approximates free associative thinking.<br /><br />This fine collection captures the flavor and thrill of exploring and Wier knows how to guide us on her journeys of discovery and recollections of varied colors, things, thoughts, and moments that make her poems engorged with meaning.  Her works affect us personally, demand our participation, and the end result is the same sort of exhilaration encountered in the wonder of discovery.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-08
249912:US	52496677	R38589A177TOHX	1931896135	877580176	Green Rice: Poems by Lam Thi My Da	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Such Resonance, Like Whispered Memories Among Friends	Lam Thi My Da may be a well-known poet in her native Vietnam, but this collection of her poetry, beautifully translated by<br /><br />Martha Collins, should be the beginning of her literary life in the US.  She is a poet of minimalist technique, writing that kind of poem that in a few words creates an atmosphere and  whiplash of memory that suggests haiku without all the rules.<br /><br />Though she survived the 'American War' in Vietnam and many of her poems reflect that indelible imprint on her creative mind, she has much more to say about feminist issues, natural phenomena, and the seemingly small issues of everyday occurrences.<br /><br />Yet it is in her powerful 'war poems' that her work feels most committed.  As in 'Bomb Crater Sky': \\"The name of the road is your name/Your death is a young girl's patch of blue sky/My soul is lit by your life/And my friends, who never saw you/Each has a different image of your face.\\"  Fragments of life in Vietnam now reflecting life in Vietnam under war conditions become incredibly poignant in her gifted hands.  Highly recommended. Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-07
250763:US	52496677	R371F9P4TJRJ2C	0446576611	435655184	Cage's Bend	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Grand Old Southern Family Tale, With No Holds Barred	Carter Coleman continues to prove that he is a fine writer who is gaining well-deserved wider attention.  He understands the great Gothic style of the important writers of the South with all the jasmine-scented niceties that wrap the subdermal tragedies and secrets and yet he can move his characters out of their Southern atmosphere into the madness of the outer world and mold them into fully formed contemporary people.  He seems to have the best of both worlds at his fingertips.<br /><br />The Rutledge family goes back many generations in the humid atmosphere of Tennessee (Cage's Bend is a town at the bend of a river), a family with as many odd characters as solid ones.  The Rutledges of this novel include Franklin, a bishop in the Episcopal Church, his strongly supportive wife Margaret, and three sons - Cage is the eldest followed by the year younger Nick and the ten years younger Harper.  This ecclesiastically peripatetic family is a solid unit, each growing into parents and young men successful at their levels until a tragic car crash in 1987 kills Nick: the events leading to this crisis and the resultant sequelae on each of the members' lives make the substance of this story.<br /><br />Idiosyncrasies are unveiled in a flashback flash/forward manner with 'chapters' of bold type history interspersed with first person accounts by Cage, Harper, Margaret and Franklin - a method of writing that allows us a more intimate vantage of each of the characters' perspectives.  The tragedy affects Cage the most strongly: he feels responsible for the death of his beloved brother for reasons that unfold later in the book.  Cage being the eldest carries the gene for bipolar personality disorder and the death of Nick triggers his first manic manifestation, followed by the seesaw manic/depressive episodes that change him from the successful athlete and businessman to a drug and alcohol besotted failure wandering the country seeking meaning and refuge from his  soulful agonies.  Harper as the youngest feels ignored by his father and less desirable than the departed 'holy Nick' to his mother and while he manages to become a successful stock broker, he is also plagued by being a sex addict, always seeking the mother that he felt eluded him.<br /><br />The novel is spiced by that peculiar brand of Southern stoicism (\\"Cage will be fine, Mars.  Don't you worry. Every good southern family has a manic-depressive....Fine old families often have more.  They all learn to get by. They often distinguish themselves.\\"), bandaids for problems that eventually peel away when the realities of the depth of the illnesses become blatant. Cage's words say a lot: \\"I don't see why everyone doesn't commit suicide.  Life is like an all-night party with rivers of blow and naked playmates, but to get to the party you have to pass through a filthy hole, slathering yourself with excrement, and buy a ticket by prostituting yourself, and at the end of the night you have to squeeze back out through the fetid crack into nothingness.\\" Reflecting on his past Cage muses he was \\"a child who smiled long before most, as if my happiness which began prematurely would spend itself prematurely and plunge the family into more sadness than anyone had ever dreamed, bearing the legacy of violence which the Cages brought to Tennessee, a curse of blood which would reach forward through time and seven generations to haunt the innocent soul of the first born and the last to carry the family name.\\"  And later strong Margaret adds \\"I read that manic-depressives have a better recovery rate in the third world countries because all the members of the extended family are close by and supportive.  Surely that's the healthiest way to live.\\"<br /><br />So it is the return to the nuclear family unit that ultimately provides healing of the slings and arrows that take each member on a Rake's Progress.  Coleman gives us wholly credible characters who never lose our interest or compassion.  If at times he meanders through the myriad love affairs of the brothers or extended forays into sailing trips etc, it is all in keeping with the style of the novel.  Don't expect this or treat this like a quick read: CAGE'S BEND is one of those novels that while at times seems to contain passages that can be skimmed, if the eye doesn't linger, some important metaphors and references are missed.  Highly recommended reading.  Grady Harp, May 05mes he meanders through the myriad love affairs of the brothers or extended forays into sailing trips etc, it is all in keeping with the style of the novel.  Don't expect this or treat this like a quick read: CAGE'S BEND is one of those novels that while at times seems to contain passages that can be skimmed, if the eye doesn't linger, some important metaphors and references are missed.  Highly recommended reading.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-06
251773:US	52496677	R2BCRHVGR9VOJK	0226248615	336573166	Classic Rough News (Phoenix Poets)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Why Poets Say It Best	Admittedly this collection of poems by Stanford University Professor of English and Creative Writing is this reader's first exposure and often first exposures feel so fresh and unique that only subsequent readings of earlier works will tame the appetite.  But Kenneth Fields is such a master of words and language and emotion that here in this collection of sonnets and sonnet-like works he proves himself capable of debriding the integument off both the sane and the insane to reveal ripples and currents of thought that are simply mesmerizing.<br /><br />Fields here demonstrates how the use of old formats of poetry can be equally as blunt and acrid as the practitioners of free style.  Within the confines of the sonnet form the shreds ideas and then reassembles them in to terse thoughts that leave the reader immobile.  That is fine writing, moving literate people to the point of being speechless...<br /><br />So well constructed are these poems that offering excerpts in a review would not do them justice.  Recommendation? Add this gifted poet's collection CLASSIC ROUGH NEWS to your library and prepare to think.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-05
257251:US	52496677	R1KBYCJ6LYP27S	1930974515	61834815	The Clearing (Green Rose Series)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Searing Challenge to the Intellect and the Spirit	David Keplinger writes with disarmingly apparent simplicity, drawing on observations of nature's creation, experiences, history, change, and death and from these seemingly quick glances he creates moments of halting beauty so absent form many other poets' works.  Some would say he is 'accessible' which to this reader is akin to greeting card fluff.<br /><br />Keplinger is a tough poet, demanding the reader's complete attention to the spare lines as well as to the inchoate threads of new thoughts consummately molded into experiences dependent on the reader's own history.  He describes the animate and inanimate in ways as strange and beautiful as they are fearful.<br /><br />Spending time with this collection of fragile yet steely poems sharpens our perception of the world, our pre-judged responses to that world, and to the possibilities of the magic of language incorporating intransigence.  Grady Harp, May 05	2005-05-01
261566:US	52496677	R1CENCYQ5C7N	078948045X	669244370	Anatomy for the Artist	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Deconstruction and Reconstruction: Anatomy as Art as Anatomy	Sarah Simblet is not only a fine artist in her own right and a solid teacher at both the Ruskin School of Drawing and Fine Art at Oxford University and at the Royal College of Art in London, she is also a fine writer for both art students and art lovers.<br /><br />In this exceedingly well-conceptualized and executed book Simblet draws upon photography of live models (by John Davis), pen and ink drawings on transparent paper through which the photographed nudes can be seen, anatomical specimens (where plastic has been injected into donated cadavers then treated with acid corrosion so that only the plastic in the veins and arteries remains), skeletons, and working sketches from the model as well as examples from the master painters to provide more visual information about her subject than anyone to date.<br /><br />After a brief but elegant history of figure drawing, the book is separated into sections by body parts and systems (Structure of the human body, head with bones and muscles, spine, torso, shoulder and arm, forearm and hand, hip and thigh, leg and foot) with each of these section she composes a Master Class based on the works of great painters (Ingres, Bacon, David, Ribera, Hopper, Holbein, Manet, Michelangelo, Raphael) matched with models posed in those famous poses for deconstructive examination of how each painter worked.<br /><br />She then turns her book into a course on drawing these various body parts, a section in which she wisely uses a generous sampling of her own superb drawings. The writing is straightforward and very easy to follow.  There may be/are other books available that are more favored by artists who have used them for years, but few others offer so complete an inside look at the concept of reconstructing the body.<br /><br />The true beauty of this book is in the design and the elegant color photographs by John Davis, thankfully not ignoring the genitalia as in so many other art books.  The models are beautifully incorporated into the text.  Other design elements that make this and Art Book include the overlay drawings and the fine reproduction of the master paintings.  Highly recommended for the student of art and anatomy at every level of study, but also for the art collectors who wish to enrich their knowledge of this long and continuing tradition of drawing and painting the human figure.  Grady Harp, April 05into the text.  Other design elements that make this and Art Book include the overlay drawings and the fine reproduction of the master paintings.  Highly recommended for the student of art and anatomy at every level of study, but also for the art collectors who wish to enrich their knowledge of this long and continuing tradition of drawing and painting the human figure.  Grady Harp, April 05 <br /> <br />	2005-04-27
263392:US	52496677	R9C85TFZ616M0	0060595817	599512592	Kitty City: A Feline Book of Hours	Books	3	3	10	N	N	A Mixed Bag	Judy Chicago has won her art reputation for her innovative installations and artwork that support the feminist movement and has continued beyond her famous 'Dinner Table' installation of ceramic plates of anatomical moments to explore other issues.  She is an important artist.<br /><br />Chicago is also a committed cat lover and this book is clever and fun to read, written as it is for those who understand and appreciate the vagaries and idiosyncrasies of feline behavior patterns.  The writing is good and entertaining.  The painting reproductions of cats are rather pedestrian for Chicago, but the cats are OK.  The problem with this art book is the surprisingly poor renderings of the people - as though Chicago has many perceptual problems in observing and recreating the human form.  Not that the human aspects of this book are so important, it is just that the quality of painting is jarringly noticeable.<br /><br />A fun book if you are just looking for something more about cats, but not if you are looking for revelations about painting!  Grady Harp, April 05	2005-04-26
263446:US	52496677	R2WJJ2MR0QGWK4	0674010868	519741501	The Chinese Garden: History, Art and Architecture, Third Edition	Books	5	25	25	N	N	The Garden as the Source of History and Philosophy	While the attitudes and examples of Japanese gardens abound in books and in cities around the world, very little has been written or photographs of the unique concepts found in the Chinese gardens.  Maggie Keswick repairs that paucity of information with this very beautifully designed, photographed and written monograph on the spirit of the subtle beauties that abound in the Chinese garden.<br /><br />Keswick offers an in depth analysis of the history of gardens in China and even if the reader is not an avid horticulturist, just the amount of information about China alone is reason to read this book carefully.  But in addition to the history and the architectural elements of these gardens here considered, there are many graceful photographs and accompanying illustrations that keep pace with the narrative while providing an encouragement to return to the book purely for the art of it.<br /><br />Keswick has found the middle ground in creating a volume about the elements of the Chinese garden and a volume that stands strongly as simply an art book.  Highly recommended for repeated readings.  Grady Harp, April 05	2005-04-26
263938:US	52496677	R1STDQ7CVUDD0I	1870673271	422081766	Gertrude Jekyll: The Making of a Garden--Gertrude Jekyll - An Anthology	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A Woman of the Garden of Lasting Wisdom	Perhaps it is due in part to that time of year when most of us turn to the exhilarating pleasures of watching Spring waken the dormant lawns and flowerbeds, the pots and trees that have survived the coffin of winter. Or perhaps it is the nostalgia of noting a friendly blossom from a wastrel seed from last summer's plant.  Or perhaps it is that special time of day when, garden tended, we relax after our labors and read of the history of the smells and sights we've unblanketed.  Whatever the reason, returning to the timeless writings of Gertrude Jekyll and the inimitable manner in which she shared her passion and love for her garden  is renewing and rewarding.<br /><br />In this beautiful book compiled by Cherry Lewis are photographs and numerous paintings that provided the atmosphere of an illuminated manuscript to the wise, warm, thoughtful and enormously timeless instruction for the gardener.  Her writings are composed like conversations about old friends, and on reading we just happen to feel like one of them.  Jekyll lived from 1843 to 1932 and never stopped discussing the care and management of the gardens she grew and those she designed.  And her advice is superior to the many wordy, current 'how to' books on gardening because that advice comes not only from a botanist but also a  naturalist.<br /><br />This lavishly illustrated book contains some lovely old painting reproductions in super color and on quality paper.  Appearing like a Valentine yet containing solid sage advice on horticulture, this book is a treasure house of information and reveries.  And perhaps that is why it surfaces so comfortably during Spring to linger on the coffee table year round.  A Gift.  Grady Harp, April 05	2005-04-25
265150:US	52496677	R2DGI0PV6FMKP4	1556592019	897385256	Delights & Shadows	Books	5	17	19	N	N	The Gift to be Simple	Somewhere in our critical language the word 'simple' gained negative connotations, as though the word should be hyphenated with suffixes like simpleminded, simpleton, etc.  Ted Kooser has resurrected the true meaning of that word and uses it with grace and aplomb in his poetry and his prominence in the arena of American Poets (he is the Poet Laureate of the United States) proves that his creative decision has been correct.<br /><br />DELIGHTS & SHADOWS is a brilliant collection of his recent poems and for those unfamiliar with Kooser's writing, this small book is an excellent starting point.  Kooser takes the most mundane 'simple' topics, observes them, mulls them like brewing a pot of tea and then serves them back to us in the quietest, leanest way, a manner that causes pause.  And if ever a poet defined his reason in a word for writing,  'pause' would be high on the list.<br /><br />He can be gut wrenchingly poignant as in FATHER 'Today you would be ninety-seven/if you had lived, and we would all be/miserable, you and your children,/driving from the clinic..........I miss you every day - the heartbeat/under your necktie, the hand cupped/on the back of my neck, Old Spice/in the air, your voice delighted with stories./On this day each year you loved to relate/that at the moment of your birth/your mother glanced out the window/and saw lilacs in bloom.  Well, today/lilacs are blooming in side yards/all over Iowa, still welcoming you.'  No lovelier eulogy could be imagined from a son for his father.<br /><br />Kooser writes of Flow Blue China, cancer clinics, tattoos, starlight, grasshoppers - and so many more of the unnoticed beauties that pry into the cracks of our crowded lives.  Reading Ted Kooser is a reorienting experience, one that is a powerful, quiet salve.  Grady Harp, April 05	2005-04-25
265157:US	52496677	R2Y3M5J04CGIAK	1585424099	751465574	Letters to a Young Artist: Building a Life in Art	Books	3	9	10	N	N	The 'X' Files readdressed	Julia Cameron is a fine writer and has been a valuable inspiration to many writers of all ages and degrees of development.  Her famous book 'THE ARTIST'S WAY' has been absorbed in classrooms of literature and in lonely dens of minds bumping on writer's block.  She has always afforded straightforward, tutorial advice that defined the path the young artist should follow to realize success.<br /><br />It is therefore with some concern that LETTERS TO A YOUNG ARTIST: BUILDING A LIFE IN ART seems less supportive and more self-indulgently punitive than one would expect from this author.  Perhaps it is the manner in which the book is formatTed.  Cameron states in the beginning of this slim book that she has condensed (?homogenized) emails from her readers and students and has placed them in the form of responses to queries, each addressing \\"X\\" as the writer.  There is some humor here and some instruction, but the lines of response to questions about state of mind, about philosophy, and need for nuRturing tend to veer more toward  the caustic end of the spectrum.<br /><br />In other words this book seems out of sync with Cameron's previous writings and for those who are looking for more solid pointers or tactics to approach - whether literarily or spiritually - then returning to the author's other books is recommended.  Grady Harp, April 05	2005-04-25
267898:US	52496677	R2KOOM0WKZLSQP	0385512775	155016412	Articles of War: A Novel	Books	5	21	24	N	N	The Bestiality of War: First Person Singular	In ARTICLES OF WAR Nick Arvin has, in this first Novel (he has previously published short stories under the name of 'In the Electric Eden: Stories') stepped into the echelon of writers who are able to credibly recreate the horrors of war without finding the need to justify the concept of war as a viable means for resolution of issues.  This is an exceptional novel that relentlessly defines the passion, the fear, the atrocities, the visceral responses to the annhilation of fellow human beings,  and places those responses squarely in the body of one terrified eighteen-year-old boy.  The effect is devastating and the result is one of the most vehement antiwar novels ever written.<br /><br />George Tilson, nicknamed 'Heck' because of his refusal to use profanity, is a simple Iowa boy who by draft enlists in the Army to please his newspaper publisher father.  He has no political fervor, no adolescent need to prove his virility: Heck simply knows how to follow orders, place training camp in the role of playacting, and accept his shipment to Omaha Beach, Normandy in 1944.  A loner by nature, Heck observes his environment, is shipped to various campaigns, and remains a passive severely frightened youth.  Once he is in battle he is horrified by the killing, the strewn dead bodies, witnessing the implosion of a recruit from a land mine, the stinging deaths of fellow soldiers, the look in the eyes of dead Germans, discovering the bodies of French victims, inadvertently sludging through corpses, the decimation of the landscape, the filth of living in rain-gutted foxholes.  At one point he encounters  a French family who befriends him and he is shown kindness by the young Claire with whom he finds momentary solace in the caves of France, becoming tangent to his emerging sexuality yet fearful of fulfilling his desires. The little family disappears and his quests to find them again are useless. His encounter with Claire and her gift of a tiny silver music box are his constant attachments to hope, to the concept that he may survive to find Claire again.<br /><br />The war eats Heck's soul and mind and eventually he follows the urge to find a way out of the battlefield by arranging his own gunshot wound to the wrist inflicted by a German sniper. This act of cowardice joined by his inability to find justice in the idea of war weakens Heck to the point that he is unable to eat without vomiting, and unable to hide from his shame of being a coward.  Heck begins to harden after a certain incident and when he is assigned to a secret mission, he consents to go.  The mission is to be a part of the firing squad that will execute deserter Pvt. Eddie D. Slovik, a mission that will forever haunt young Heck.  (This incident is based on fact, as the author informs us at the beginning and end of the book.)<br /><br />How Heck deals with all these inward damages inflicted upon him by the war forms the final chapters of this intense book.  The war ends and Heck is so incapacitated by his guilt that he signs up for another tour of duty in France and it is during this tour that the unsettling events of the post-war effects take on significant meaning and draw an end to the story.<br /><br />Nick Arvin writes  in spare sentences, much the way his main character would process information.  But that is not to say that Arvin cannot wax eloquent or burn images into our minds that become as indelible as the effects of the war on Heck. \\"Heck began to understand that this was hell: a rainy woods, a place of mud and standing water and deep cold, made complete by the explosions that forced you to burrow into the muck and lie in it and be glad for it....The damaged trees were stricken, ossified.  When it rained the trees dripped, providing no protection.  A fog was trapped or confused in the forest and dwelled there all day, at its thickest creating a white darkness. The mists seem to absorb the night, and eventually night reconquered the mists, and in this fashion the idea of sunlight was erased.\\"<br /><br />As poetic as the writing just quoted is, Arvin can also conjure the unimaginable.  \\"At one time he had expected the war would go by like a snake whose tail he would eventually see, and that would be the end.  But now he saw it to be more like a river that is always going by and of which one expects no end.  One day he watched a GI urinate into the open mouth of a German corpse.  The next day he entered a town recently abandoned by the Germans and found the body of an American soldier who had been literally crucified.\\"<br /><br />ARTICLES OF WAR places the reader in the midst of WW II and never spares a moment of grisly detail.  For this Vet from another war, this book, more than most other novels about war, captures the harsh realities of battle on the line and in the minds of those sent to fight.  If ever there were an antiwar statement in the form of brilliant prose, this is it.  This is a tough book to read, but an inordinately important one, and an exceedingly fine novel by a gifted poet.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, April 05n the idea of sunlight was erased.\\" <br /> <br />As poetic as the writing just quoted is, Arvin can also conjure the unimaginable.  \\"At one time he had expected the war would go by like a snake whose tail he would eventually see, and that would be the end.  But now he saw it to be more like a river that is always going by and of which one expects no end.  One day he watched a GI urinate into the open mouth of a German corpse.  The next day he entered a town recently abandoned by the Germans and found the body of an American soldier who had been literally crucified.\\"  <br /> <br />ARTICLES OF WAR places the reader in the midst of WW II and never spares a moment of grisly detail.  For this Vet from another war, this book, more than most other novels about war, captures the harsh realities of battle on the line and in the minds of those sent to fight.  If ever there were an antiwar statement in the form of brilliant prose, this is it.  This is a tough book to read, but an inordinately important one, and an exceedingly fine novel by a gifted poet.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, April 05 <br /> <br />	2005-04-22
272699:US	52496677	R3S3ZBD0IH7WSD	1400040698	183415390	Enchantments	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Simplicity of Style Woven into the Wonders in a Child's Mind	ENCHANTMENTS is enchanting: Linda Ferri creates a touching novel out of fragments of a child's perception of the world in the throes of moving toward that fearsome state of adulthood.  And part of the beauty of this 'first novel', INCANTESIMA translated from the Italian by John Casey, is the simple writing style Ferri assumes as she looks as the world from the vantage of a young schoolgirl.<br /><br />Told in brief chapters (about the same length of the attention span of her narrator who remains nameless), this is the story of an Italian family of comfortable means whose story begins with the birth of Clara, the baby sister of our narrator, who with her two older brothers lead a happy life with their mother and variably magical or monster father.  From their time in their native Italy they soon move to Paris where the children must adapt to 'Frenchkids' and the new atmosphere of Parisian attitude - with the help of their daily nanny Dame Dame.<br /><br />Ferri literally strolls through childhood with these children and their friends and enemies, their moments of simple exaltation and the moments of humiliation.  Step by step we are made to feel the enlarging view of the world as the children become ever more observant.<br /><br />There is a long boat trip to America where once again the terrain and ambience of a strange place are molded through a child's perception.  Then once again the family returns to Paris and ultimately confronts the reality of the life cycle in a most touching way.<br /><br />Ferri is a wise writer and for those who have had the pleasure of seeing THE SON'S ROOM for which she wrote the screenplay, it should come as no surprise that hidden beneath the skin of each charming chapter is a suggestion of the influence of adult invasion: the life cycle is made a metaphor  by the molding years of preadolescence, before the vagaries of sex and finiteness appear.<br /><br />The best way to describe the pleasures of reading this brief novel is within the title.  This is a little book to cherish.  Grady Harp, April 05title.  This is a little book to cherish.  Grady Harp, April 05	2005-04-18
275971:US	52496677	RHQVZYDOCKHNF	185437480X	505591704	Turner and Venice	Books	5	19	20	N	N	The Most Important Resource on the Paintings of JMW Turner	JMW Turner goes in and out of phase as far as appreciation for his gifts as a painter.  There have been periods in history where his works were dismissed as irrelevant and of poor technical quality.  But despite the varying critical evaluations, Turner's inimitable style of finding the transparency of that plane where water and air admix has always been viewed by those who are fortunate enough to approach his great works as that of an idiosyncratic romantic poet.<br /><br />No subject better provided a venue for his vision than the mysterious and magnificent 'La Serenissima' - Venice, Italy.  It is in this city that floats like a transient tenant on the sea, laced with canals, bathed in fog and rain and mist that Turner found the essence of the spirit of Venice.  This lavishly designed and illustrated volume originally served as a catalogue for the exhibition by the same title that was staged at the Tate Museum in London and traveled thereafter.  Curator Ian Warrell is to be commended for this largest collection of Turner's paintings and drawings ever to be assembled, and to top his achievement he produced this monograph which not only illustrates in rich color separations the glories of the paintings and the detail of the sketches, it also is graced by excellent essays by travel writer Jan Morris, historian David Laven and Venice specialist Cecelia Powell.<br /><br />While there have been several fine books on Turner, this is the finest assemblage of works that inherently relate, a fact which induces a deeper appreciation for Turner's talent.  Setting his paintings in context with the works of other painters, both his contemporaries and others, shows not only the 'how' of Turner's techniques, it informs us of the context of the views both historically and artistically.<br /><br />The quality of the reproductions is first class and the quality of the paper of this book is of the highest order.  This is simply a magnificent book visually and educationally...and romantically!  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, April 05romantically!  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, April 05	2005-04-15
276342:US	52496677	R2JPB6BW6W9KE8	3791332139	310442325	Egon Schiele: Landscapes	Books	5	41	42	N	N	The Other Side of Egon Schiele: Sensual Landscapes	Egon Schiele lived for only a brief period of time and yet in that lifetime he, more than any other artist of the fin de siecle, made visual the probings of the human psyche as explored by Sigmund Freud. His inumerable portraits of young nude girls, his insistence on the viability of human sensual responses, and his lack of temerity in producing many self-portraits nude and aroused made him a sensation in his time and now has placed him in the echelon of the most collectable artists from the last century.<br /><br />But equally important to both Schiele and to the public who knew little of his full output are his avante garde landscapes.  This book, well written by Rudolf Leopold, serves to bring appreciation to these magnificent landscapes.  Leopold has the graciousness to include photographs of the areas in and around where Schiele lived, views which Schiele painted repeatedly but never with the same vantage or color effects.  Whether the views are vast horizons made puzzle-like with his drawing/painting technique, flowers flattened in perspective to emphasize design, or photo-like fragments of streets and houses, they are all equally successful in proving that Schiele was a fine draughtsman and inventive colorist.<br /><br />This book is large in format that serves to lay the framework for the excellent color reproductions.  Some art books are ones that, once read, are relegated to the coffee table.  EGON SCHIELE: LANDSCAPES is a beautiful volume that begs for repeated readings and viewings.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, April 05	2005-04-15
276358:US	52496677	R2DNT6S9JEARER	0595326005	284863340	China Diaries: A novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Introducing a Fine New Author!	Louis Stannard pounces onto the scene of excellent fiction authors with this, his first novel CHINA DIARIES, and if this superb book is an indication of other works to come, Stannard is destined to be a best selling new author of popular highly charged action/intrigue/romance novels.<br /><br />It is refreshing to encounter a first novel of such range and capable writing.  CHINA DIARIES is a beautifully crafted novel that not only tells a terrific story, it also brings to light a portion of history that has been buried in the history books.  Stannard's main character Stephen Cannon is engaged in a detective mystery that focuses on his parents and his perception of his mother, one Anna Boreisha, a Russian &eacute;migr&eacute; from Shanghai and Nanking, who deserted him shortly after his birth to return to China.<br /><br />The bulk of the novel takes place in the latter part of 1941 when the Japanese bombed the Western Coast of China including Hong Kong and the many islands in the Pacific (Pearl Harbor, Wake, Guam, etc) on their way to mirroring in Asia what Hitler was accomplishing in Europe.  It is during this time of terror that Alex Cannon, a Pan AM pilot, meets Anna, they fall in love, marry, and become pregnant with Stephen.  The remainder of the story is how the couple returns to the USA and the way their lives merge and dissipate after that.<br /><br />But this is not just a significant love story, it is a deeply researched study of WW II as it affected the US intervention into the war following the bombing of Pearl Harbor, a very informative and extended expose' of how the Japanese carried out a Chinese genocide (the Rape of Nanking is only a small example) and how this has remained a controversial and occult secret throughout history.  And as if that weren't enough to peak the interest of any reader, Stannard explores the dissolution of Tsarist Russia and the subsequent rise of the Bolsheviks and Communism that drove Anna's family to flee to China as a country that would accept them without passports. This is Anna's past and brings to the novel the plight of the Russian &eacute;migr&eacute;s. Rarely has the history of the Whites versus the Reds during the Russian Revolution been so succinctly and beautifully described.<br /><br />If this sounds like a lot of information for a novel to carry, then reading this book will prove the gifts of Louis Stannard, for he is able to tightly weave details from history into a fictional search for family identity in a manner too infrequently encountered in young novelists.  This is a remarkable book, begging for a screenplay adaptation, and is a class calling card for an exceptional talent.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, April 05hat would accept them without passports. This is Anna's past and brings to the novel the plight of the Russian migrs. Rarely has the history of the Whites versus the Reds during the Russian Revolution been so succinctly and beautifully described. <br /> <br />If this sounds like a lot of information for a novel to carry, then reading this book will prove the gifts of Louis Stannard, for he is able to tightly weave details from history into a fictional search for family identity in a manner too infrequently encountered in young novelists.  This is a remarkable book, begging for a screenplay adaptation, and is a class calling card for an exceptional talent.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, April 05	2005-04-15
288704:US	52496677	R14S07LZAOTZR5	0976246201	876426753	Fumbling Toward Divinity: The Adoption Scriptures	Books	4	6	6	N	N	On the Brink	That Craig Hickman is a very bright man, well schooled, a fine investigator, and a man with a mission is obvious from the moment you open this excellent book.  Given his credentials as a performance artist, poet, cultural activist and author it is apparent he has the courage and conviction to write this book about the agonies, frustrations, and of course the joys of adoption, of gay relationships, of the search for identity when that identity is locked away with unknown birth parents.  The crown of this input is that this book is actually a memoir, a shared body of information that required more diligence and investigation than the toughest of PhD dissertations.<br /><br />For this reviewer Hickman's FUMBLING TOWARD DIVINITY: THE ADOPTION SCRIPTURES is uneven.  The first portion of this memoir is inundated with names, histories, paths, and intricacies that make the reading a bit tedious. Yes, it is written well, the language works, but it is the placement of the narrator in the third person (a time honored if beleaguered tradition of writing memoirs) that subtracts the immediacy of the information to the story - and it is the story here presented that is the fascinating aspect of this book.<br /><br />Once Hickman connects with all aspects of his families (birth, adopted, partner's family) then the grace of the writing is secure, the development of the avenues of the journey become warmly fascinating, and the book jumps into the welcome arena of entertainment.  I'm not sure if the substance of the book could have been altered in any way to make the entire volume as interesting as the latter half, but to the casual reader of literature (not those with whom ready identification with any of the multifaceted aspects of the author invite identification) the telling gets a bit trying at times.<br /><br />Hickman's prose is up with the best of writers.  If he occasionally calls attention to scripture-like verbiage, if key thoughts are repeated every other sentence for effect, if information is revisited a bit too often, then that is a style that Hickman may be in the course of developing.  Future books (and it would seem there WILL be future books) will finesse some of these sidebar distractions.<br /><br />There is every reason to believe that Hickman may evolve into another James Baldwin (a personal favorite author of mine), but it will take some forays into fiction to test those waters thoroughly.  So why only 4 stars for this book?  It is out of optimism that Craig Hickman has more to say and more talent with which to say it.  I think he is a fine writer and certainly is deserving of our attention. The 5 stars seem destined to come. Grady Harp, April 05e for effect, if information is revisited a bit too often, then that is a style that Hickman may be in the course of developing.  Future books (and it would seem there WILL be future books) will finesse some of these sidebar distractions. <br /> <br />There is every reason to believe that Hickman may evolve into another James Baldwin (a personal favorite author of mine), but it will take some forays into fiction to test those waters thoroughly.  So why only 4 stars for this book?  It is out of optimism that Craig Hickman has more to say and more talent with which to say it.  I think he is a fine writer and certainly is deserving of our attention. The 5 stars seem destined to come. Grady Harp, April 05	2005-04-05
292725:US	52496677	R2673FQL7TA8VJ	0874172853	183742608	Flying Over Sonny Liston: Poems (Western Literature Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	When Only  a Poet Can Explain	Gary Short is a fine poet who manages to visit places warily avoided by most.  His poems vary in subject matter, but his best poems find expression of loss, of grief, of finding solace in the vast prairie that is his living space.<br /><br />At his brother's funeral Short reflects on his brother's dying: 'It is his last day./ I watch him sleep. A death-drowse./ His thin fingers touch/ his penis, belly, chest,/ & his face, as if/  he is trying to memorize/ himself.'<br /><br />In an Elegy For My Mother: 'The sunflower/ all day long follows/ the light/ (heaven's eye)/ & even after its star has set,/ continues to look out/ until loss/ is realized. Then/ it can only stare into the ground.'<br /><br />Words such as these fine poetry make and Gary Short has found a direct line to our moments of vulnerability for which we can only be grateful.  This is fine poet.  Grady Harp, April 05	2005-04-02
292897:US	52496677	R27V9SEK83QDSZ	1560235179	55112161	Deep Water: A Sailor's Passage	Books	5	7	9	N	N	DEEP WATER: A New Writer's Passage into Fine Literature	EM Kahn.  Mark the name.  With this 'first novel' we are introduced to a writer who shows the gifts to join the ranks of those writers who tell stories about people who happen to be gay but whose sexuality is incidental to the overall aspect of the novel.  Think for a moment about the way the following  works affected us: Jamie O'Neill AT SWIM, TWO BOYS, Michael Cunningham A HOME AT THE END OF THE WORLD, Brian Malloy THE YEAR OF ICE, Andrew Holleran THE BEAUTY OF MEN, Alan Hollingsworth THE LINE OF BEAUTY.  Though Kahn is not yet in that special realm in which these authors create, given the beauty of DEEP WATER: A SAILOR'S PASSAGE he certainly has the promise of joining them.<br /><br />Though written as a memoir about a young man's experiences in Manhattan, Gene (our narrator) is a committed sailor, spending his spare time from his occupation as a woodworker learning the ins and outs of sail boats and the spectrum of guiding all manner of small craft along the waterfront of New York, Long Island, East River, Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard, and all the myriad odd islands that are the cores of mystery and history the sea breeds so well.<br /><br />Gene hires a young lad Kevin to work in his shop.  The two are committed to their work and gradually to each other as a tender relationship develops between them.  Kevin is emotionally needy, being the progeny of distant parents beleaguered by alcohol and wanderlust, and subsequently adopted by a loving couple when he was a teenager.  Gene is ten years older and wiser, and not the blond beauty that Kevin is, yet he sees his good fortune in finding Kevin and commits to this relationship wholeheartedly.<br /><br />The experience they share, one that solidifies their bonding, is the sea and sailing.  Gene teaches Kevin the ropes and they both set out on many watery diversions that, though terrifying at times (in keeping with the challenge of the sport), bring them together as one.  They include friends on excursions to Florida and the Caribbean, sharing their lives with those whose lives run parallel in many ways.  The memoir takes place from 1978 to 1995 - the era of the pestilence of AIDS - and Kevin contracts the disease, lives through it for four years, and finally succumbs, dying in the arms of his lover Gene.  The manner in which this journey proceeds is some of the more sensitive writing about loss in the time of AIDS that has been written.  After Kevin's death Gene carries on with the sturdy help of his friends and extended family and shows us how tragedy is part of the comedy of life: it is all in how we cope and proceed.<br /><br />Some readers my overlook this book at first encounter, finding it simply too full of sailing terms and lingo, but Kahn knows exactly what he is doing in his writing style.  He invites us into the realm of passion for the sea and for sailors buy teaching us the basics of getting out on the water, and by the mid portion of this immaculate novel, even the most landlocked reader will feel at ease with the mechanics that form the foundation of this tale.  It is at that point that the majesty of nature at its most raw underlines the threads of the happenings in Kahn's story.<br /><br />Books of this sort, books that deal with gay relationships and the presence of AIDS, can in the wrong hands become mawkish and tedious.  EM Kahn is a natural writer and he knows well the limits of his and our psyches, knowing how to insert a small paragraph here and there in the narrative, paragraphs that give us the spirit of the people we are getting to know, and the gradual insertion of the ugly tragedy of AIDS.  This is the work of a sensitive writer and is the reason why Kahn could progress to the ranks of the above mentioned fine writers - a gay writer who wholly understands perspective an is brave enough to talk to us about matters that just happen to be affecting the lives of gay people.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, April 05rida and the Caribbean, sharing their lives with those whose lives run parallel in many ways.  The memoir takes place from 1978 to 1995 - the era of the pestilence of AIDS - and Kevin contracts the disease, lives through it for four years, and finally succumbs, dying in the arms of his lover Gene.  The manner in which this journey proceeds is some of the more sensitive writing about loss in the time of AIDS that has been written.  After Kevin's death Gene carries on with the sturdy help of his friends and extended family and shows us how tragedy is part of the comedy of life: it is all in how we cope and proceed. <br /> <br />Some readers my overlook this book at first encounter, finding it simply too full of sailing terms and lingo, but Kahn knows exactly what he is doing in his writing style.  He invites us into the realm of passion for the sea and for sailors buy teaching us the basics of getting out on the water, and by the mid portion of this immaculate novel, even the most landlocked reader will feel at ease with the mechanics that form the foundation of this tale.  It is at that point that the majesty of nature at its most raw underlines the threads of the happenings in Kahn's story. <br /> <br />Books of this sort, books that deal with gay relationships and the presence of AIDS, can in the wrong hands become mawkish and tedious.  EM Kahn is a natural writer and he knows well the limits of his and our psyches, knowing how to insert a small paragraph here and there in the narrative, paragraphs that give us the spirit of the people we are getting to know, and the gradual insertion of the ugly tragedy of AIDS.  This is the work of a sensitive writer and is the reason why Kahn could progress to the ranks of the above mentioned fine writers - a gay writer who wholly understands perspective an is brave enough to talk to us about matters that just happen to be affecting the lives of gay people.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, April 05	2005-04-02
296624:US	52496677	R2WUUQ3LDWUO4C	6309161180	726633474	Debussy:Baudelaire Settings (Adams or	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Inimitable Susan Graham: Soprano!	Susan Graham continues to grow as an artist, both in her inimitable operatic performances but especially in her warmly human and bracingly communicative recitals with piano collaboration. With this very beautiful recording of songs cycles by Chausson, Ravel and Debussy she combines the two - operatic and recital - and the result is some of the most stunning collaborations with voice and orchestra on CD today. Gush? Well, just listen to this well-conceived disc and try to escape the trance of enchantment.<br /><br />The Chausson 'Poeme de l'amour et de la mer' is a series of heavily orchestrated songs whose protagonist is a young man who meets and falls in love with a girl and returns a year later to discover the girl no longer is moved by him - not unlike the doubt, lust, longing and memory of Resnais' film 'Last Year at Marienbad'. Graham communicates the longing and ecstasy and ultimate devastation of the young man with intense feeling and gorgeous rich sound. Yan Pascal Tortelier conducts the BBC Symphony Orchestra with sonorous swells of sound that never bury the voice and never completely give in to the excesses in Chausson's writing.<br /><br />Best known of the works on this recording is the 'Sheherazade ' of Maurice Ravel. Here, moving among the three songs well known to every concertgoer, Graham demonstrates her seamless range of tone and color: though a mezzo-soprano by range she transports her gorgeous instrument into the realm of soprano with complete ease. Her French diction is perfect and she makes the poems come alive. If this reading does not erase all memories of such singers as Regine Crespin or Victoria de los Angeles as far as breathy French sensuousness, the uncanny beauty of her sound and her immersion in the texts creates a new standard. 'La Flute enchantee' is from another place of rarefied air!<br /><br />The Debussy songs 'Le Livre de Baudelaire' are here performed with a new orchestration by contemporary composer John Adams! And if you fear that may be an incongruous pairing then fear not. The orchestral writing is in total sync with Debussy's haunting line. Graham again delivers lush, creamy tone with a true 'French sound'. It simply works.<br /><br />Apart from the beauty of Susan Graham's artistry and Tortelier's sensitive collaboration the major contribution of this recording is in the thoughtful programming - three cycles by three French composers whose lives overlapped. This is the degree of challenging and rewarding ventures that will maintain the importance of classical music recordings. Highly Recommended. Grady Harp, March 05ou fear that may be an incongruous pairing then fear not. The orchestral writing is in total sync with Debussy's haunting line. Graham again delivers lush, creamy tone with a true 'French sound'. It simply works. <br /> <br />Apart from the beauty of Susan Graham's artistry and Tortelier's sensitive collaboration the major contribution of this recording is in the thoughtful programming - three cycles by three French composers whose lives overlapped. This is the degree of challenging and rewarding ventures that will maintain the importance of classical music recordings. Highly Recommended. Grady Harp, March 05 <br />	2005-03-30
298314:US	52496677	RT6NDHH0XX14F	3861872412	602351080	Men of the World	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Refreshing and Reassuring to See this Book Widely Available	Kristen Bjorn is probably the most successful and highly respected creator of filmed male erotica.  He has traveled the globe searching and successfully finding the tanned and sculpted men of the Adonis category that fill the pages of this book.  Unlike many other photographers of the male physique, Bjorn goes beyond the at times plastic surface of gratuitous suggestion and allows his models to be grouped or isolated in poses that, while  never entering the realm of graphic interaction, do parade the men in the aroused state.<br /><br />Such subject matter is not without precedent: many of our famous contemporary artists such as Odd Nerdrum, Paul Cadmus, Robert Mapplethorpe, and Duane Michaels have incidental use of the male 'at attention'.  But it is Bjorn's sensitive eye for composition, lighting, and environmental locations that allows him to free his models to explore their natural state of sexuality.<br /><br />Sadly, there is no accompanying essay about the artist to accompany this full color portfolio, but hopefully with time authors will have equal courage as Bjorn to discuss what Kristen Bjorn courageously presents as art.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-29
298387:US	52496677	R30PA3ROHFZC1V	0595327826	125260983	Once in Kazakhstan: The Snow Leopard Emerges	Books	5	4	5	N	N	I Love This Book! The Lost Art of Journals	There was a time when our information about distant lands came from world travelers (remember Richard Halliburton?) who observed, participated in cultural miscegenation, and daily recorded their findings and feelings in journals which were later to become the informational resource for those folk who were able to visit the planet solely from the comfort of their home reading chair.  Now the media blitz puts us anywhere on the globe, and even off the globe, funnelng back photos and documentation that rarely give us story and even less rarely provide insight into the places and peoples captured and transmitted by satellite.<br /><br />Keith Rosten may be a lawyer and teacher by occupation, but by gift he is a humanist and a wise transmitter of information. In this very readable book (try putting it down!) Rosten provides a day by day journal of his experiences in Kazakhstan in a way that draws us not only into the history of this vast land of 'In the Steppes of Central Asia', but also into the people who have been part of this huge country, a country that preceded the USSR and was subsequently absorbed in that beomoth and now is regaining its own identity.<br /><br />There is much to learn about the fascinating social and political history of this land, but even more important to us as readers is the grace with which Rosten introduces us to the people: the customs, the language, the food, the living conditions, the customs and joys and tribulations of this fascinating band of survivors.  Rosten includes snapshots that enhance his observations and in general provides us with a crisp, intelligent, witty, wry and ultimately warmly informative diary.  Highly recommended for students of Russian culture, for those confused by the land mass diaspora post USSR, and for the gentle reader who is just curious about that other side of the world!  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-29
300254:US	52496677	R1T418QDPSXINK	3791330543	394004280	Male Bodies: A Photographic History of the Nude	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A Photographic History of the Male Nude of Great Dignity	Emmanuel Cooper has performed a significant service to photographers, artists, sociologists, and historians in creating this excellent folio of the history of photographing the male nude, from the mid 19th Century to the present.  Not only does this fine book contain many superlative photographs of historical and esthetic significance, it also provides insights into the men and women who created or documented these images.<br /><br />Coupled with each of well over a hundred photographs are essays or commentaries about each photographer.  The artists include Imogen Cunningham, Duane Michaels, Nan Golden, Edward Weston, Diane Arbus, Annie Liebowitz among many more and the information about the influence and photographic style of each contributor is enlightening. Whether  the photographers were using the male figure as a construct of sculptural beauty or as audience-specific titillation is more of casual interest than documentary importance.<br /><br />What does come through clearly on repeated perusing of this volume is the altered view of the male physique from the beginning of photography to the present.  Without preaching to the balcony Emmanuel Cooper merely lets the pictures and atmospheres speak for themselves.  This is a very important and very beautiful collection of images, and more importantly these images are given respect and credence as the art form they truly are.  Recommended.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-27
300555:US	52496677	R3IC358EWH71V0	0922233241	702503775	The Mutter Museum Of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Museum as Photography Studio:Treaties with the Aberrant	This beautifully designed, researched and photographed monograph is one of the most interesting journeys you'll likely encounter in the volumes of art and photography books.  Though not well known to the regular museum-visiting public, the Mutter Museum of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia is a richly rewarding sanctuary for the many forms of medical aberrations that have been collected since the museum's founding in 1858.  Housed in this museum are over 20,000 specimens, photographs, paintings and molds of patients and organs and remnants of the lives of people born with deformities, better described as variations from the norm.  It is much to the credit of director Gretchen Worden that she not only preserved this fine collection, but that she had the foresight to invite many of our finest photographers to enter this domain of the bizarre and create formal portraits of the materials there contained.<br /><br />Devotees of medical history, as well as those fascinated by the people from the past who made their living as part of 'freak side shows' in a time less compassionate than now, will find in this book some of the best renderings of nature's spectrum of anomalies.  Add to this plethora of model material the genius of such photographers as Joel Peter Witkin and the result is a collection of photographs so bizarre they defy credibility.  But real they are, and each specimen is presented with dignity and quality of format.  There are even descriptions of the etiology of some of the photographed abnormalites and a fine essay by Gretchen Worden, explaining the purpose of the museum, the monograph and the stimulus for the production of this fine body of photographs.<br /><br />There may be those that shy away from viewing variations from normal because of the backlash of the previous century's condemnation of 'voyeurism'.  Rest assured that this is a volume that maintains the dignity of the body and does not sensationalize these variations as grotesqueries.  Sensitivity prevails.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, March 05.  Sensitivity prevails.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-27
301113:US	52496677	R2ENKYURC0G195	0374222711	559470105	Now It's Time to Say Goodbye	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Dissection of Dichotomies	Dale Peck is a fascinatingly brilliant writer.  From his first work - \\"Martin and John\\" - and his later compelling \\"What We Lost\\", Peck demonstrated that he was able to stir up a colossal tale in a few pages, stories that were so pungent that extending them beyond his usual 250 page format seemed to suggest overkill.  Yet here in this 1998 epic, Kansas-Gothic novel, Peck proves that his imagination and courtship with the English language is fathomless. NOW IT'S TIME TO SAY GOODBYE is a long (460 page) novel that now suggests Peck could proceed in a Jamesian manner, further developing the myriad characters he has created for this fascinating tale.<br /><br />A story as complex as this defies reduction or outline, and I'm not sure that isn't part of Peck's drive.  He sets up a place in Kansas in the middle of the country and there creates a town bifurcated in name, in race, and in history.  Galatea is white, under the stringent influence of a matriarchal Rosemary Krebs who owns the territory both financially and through historical power.  Galatia is the other side of the tracks of the same town, is black, and since its founding many years ago has been a town where blacks were never slaves.  Both sides of this partitioned place have their secrets, misdeeds, histories of crime and sleuth, and both are populated with strong central characters as well as equal divisions of uncouth trashy folk.<br /><br />Into this microcosm enters (by invitation - a first hint of the many unresolved dilemmas in this story) a gay pair from New York - writer Colin Nieman and his lover Justin Time.  The town is home to a white painter (Wade Painter) and his black lover Devine (aka Reginald Packman).  The arrival seems to trigger all manner of collisions between the partitioned town and slowly we are introduced into the histories of both sides and how those histories continue to collide: an albino black boy Eric Johnson was thought to be lynched for rape of a white girl, mysteries abound about the disappearance of Lucy Robinson (the only person to whom old matriarch Rosemary Krebs could relate), and there are anti-gay, anti-black, and anti-white clashes that heightened the suspense.  The ultimate driving force of the story is the all-consuming need to discover all the facts behind the disappearance of Lucy Robinson as she seems to have touched the lives of all those living in the split town.  To push further down the path of story would be to sabotage the fresh reader's suspenseful journey Peck so adeptly paints.<br /><br />Peck's writing is such a pleasure to read, so lavish is his attention to atmosphere and play of words within the context of his story, that one can forgive the fact that certain of the multitudinous characters fail to develop beyond the first dip into the darkroom tray.  But he is so adroit at finding the right manner to use dialogue in a way that truly suggests accents and colloquialisms, so able to maintain our attention through this long epic, that this minor flaw can be forgiven. All of his many characters eventually intertwine.<br /><br />Peck continues his brave, outspoken manner of relating sexual scenes, of referencing social injustices, of probing the psyches of aberrant people in this novel.  For this reader the novel begs for cinematic transfer, but knowing Peck's social conscience, perhaps that is a fruitless wish.  After reading this novel, approaching Peck's acerbic HATCHET JOBS: CUTTING THROUGH CONTEMPORARY LITERATURE is all the more illuminating.  And while many laudatory critics have discussed his place among the ranks of writers like Flannery O'Connor, Richard Russo, and even James Joyce!, etc., Dale Peck remains uniquely Dale Peck.  Take your time with this opus: the book deserves it.  Grady Harp, March 05t the disappearance of Lucy Robinson (the only person to whom old matriarch Rosemary Krebs could relate), and there are anti-gay, anti-black, and anti-white clashes that heightened the suspense.  The ultimate driving force of the story is the all-consuming need to discover all the facts behind the disappearance of Lucy Robinson as she seems to have touched the lives of all those living in the split town.  To push further down the path of story would be to sabotage the fresh reader's suspenseful journey Peck so adeptly paints.<br /><br />Peck's writing is such a pleasure to read, so lavish is his attention to atmosphere and play of words within the context of his story, that one can forgive the fact that certain of the multitudinous characters fail to develop beyond the first dip into the darkroom tray.  But he is so adroit at finding the right manner to use dialogue in a way that truly suggests accents and colloquialisms, so able to maintain our attention through this long epic, that this minor flaw can be forgiven. All of his many characters eventually intertwine.<br /><br />Peck continues his brave, outspoken manner of relating sexual scenes, of referencing social injustices, of probing the psyches of aberrant people in this novel.  For this reader the novel begs for cinematic transfer, but knowing Peck's social conscience, perhaps that is a fruitless wish.  After reading this novel, approaching Peck's acerbic HATCHET JOBS: CUTTING THROUGH CONTEMPORARY LITERATURE is all the more illuminating.  And while many laudatory critics have discussed his place among the ranks of writers like Flannery O'Connor, Richard Russo, and even James Joyce!, etc., Dale Peck remains uniquely Dale Peck.  Take your time with this opus: the book deserves it.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-26
301821:US	52496677	RKJ1IC4RMJF6V	0595318908	141338329	Creator: A Superhero Epic	Books	2	1	2	N	N	At least it is a start...	CREATOR: A SUPERHERO EPIC is that kind of book that has an audience, obviously, because without an audience for the over the top science fiction whopper tales, where would the endless stream of movies such as 'Matrix', 'Spiderman I, II', 'Catwoman', to name but a very few find the people to fill the seats of the theaters?<br /><br />Perhaps this is 'escapist literature'.  One would hope not.  Why would we need to distort reality to such a degree as creating good guys versus mutants when tales based on life-sized people can create that same effect with elegant language, poetry, altered perception of known places - all the tools that good writing offers the reader as a path away from reality beyond the covers of the book.<br /><br />So, I am not a sci-fi fan and only read this book as an obligation to explore the works of young writers active today.  Sadly CREATOR depends on word warps, DNA distortions, fanciful names for characters and places and pedestrian dialogue to propel this engine.  Yes, the forces of good and evil are in play as they always are in these forays, but the overall story is so hampered with the style (or lack of) of writing that finishing the book is more an act of obligation than a source of pleasure.  Someone has to say these things...We are informed that the author Jaime Mera is a Military Intelligence Officer stationed in Korea who has assumed the pen name of Alexander B. Edwards and that this is the first book in a series of eight!  One hopes after this start that the remainder of the series tightens up a bit on writing technique and stance as worthy literature.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-25
301865:US	52496677	R1SIZ2DD2WOKQ6	0060193220	524015341	The Tao Te Ching: An Illustrated Journey	Books	5	14	16	N	N	As Visually  Beautiful a Journey as Spiritual	Lao Tzu's Tao Te Ching (The Book of the Way)  has long been referenced by those who seek to understand the Eastern philosophy of the harmony of the universe.  In simple, eloquent verse this collection of poems (though there are those who would object to the 'poem' label) the secrets to shedding the self with its attendant judgment, desire, and critique provide the guide for finding oneness with the cosmos.<br /><br />Steven Mitchell is the translator of these ancient texts and his sensitivity to the poetic flow of the concepts and instructions enhance this version of the TAO TE CHING.  And as if that weren't sufficient reason to make this your access to these ageless meditations, this book is an 'illustrated version', tastefully combined with old Chinese drawings and paintings that allow the eye to roam while digesting the moments of beauty of the words.<br /><br />This book becomes a constant companion for those who look to make sense of the world and its chaos.  If ever there were the perfect gift for the friends in your life, this elegant little book is surely one of the best.  Grady Harp, March 05.	2005-03-25
301867:US	52496677	R1D7VLQV3M87K8	B0006BTD3S	127844114	I Protest!	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Nearly Lost Little Volume That Roars	I PROTEST is a small book of photographs taken by veteran combat photographer David Douglas Duncan during eight days in February, 1968 in Khe Sahn, Vietnam.  Just the name of the combat zone has become a pillar of focus for those who protest the greed and absurdity of war.  It was a battle during which the American troops, the invincible ones, took a deafening beating by the Viet Cong and for many it remains the turning point or GI commitment to the war they were forced to fight.<br /><br />These photographs are like snapshots, so immediate is their sting.  There are cycles of views of individual Marines, fields of bodies, fires, bunkers, destruction of land and life that are difficult to view, but so necessary that we know about them.  In Duncan's own words \\"In these pages, if a man lies uncovered upon the ground he is a North Vietnamese soldier, just fallen, soon to be buried by the Marines.  If a man on the ground or a litter has been covered with a poncho, he is a Marine killed in action, awaiting evacuation to the rear and the journey to his family.  Not much more can be done, in war, for the dead of either side.\\"<br /><br />Upon Duncan's return to the States he published this book, bravely, in protest to the Vietnam War.  For everyone who was touched in some way by that regrettable mistake on the part of the US, this little book should be in your possession.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-25
302598:US	52496677	RVJKJOXVXVHFT	1880777053	600619000	Opus Deorum: Photography	Books	4	5	5	N	N	One of the Photographer's Finest Collections	OPUS DECORUM is a book without words.  This is simply a portfolio of the artistry of Jim French, one of the more respected art photographers of the male nude.  French's proclivity is for the massive muscular male captured wither in nature or in studio, always with an eye for light and shadow and settings that enhance the bulk of his models.<br /><br />These are powerful images from Fire Island to Hawaii to Malibu to the studio.  His models are graciously credited in the back of this portfolio along with the location and year when the photo session occurred.  French seems to favor the body in extremis as far as posing.  At times he allows his models to be at rest, but more often he has them engaging in some source of physical exertion that emphasizes the mass of the worked male physique.  They are truly the \\"Work of the Gods\\" of the title.<br /><br />The book is well designed and the photography is reproduced on the finest paper.  For those who admire the study of the nude, this is a valuable addition to the library.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-25
305804:US	52496677	R3FHI20J7R0UPX	0970576870	867870762	Afterwar: Veterans from a World in Conflict	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Visually Stunning, Emotionally Bracing, Informative Book	AFTERWAR: VETERANS FROM A WORLD IN CONFLICT  represents fifteen intensive years of photographing and interviewing veterans/survivors of the many wars of the past century.  These images and quotations  and quiet thoughts and outrages are not limited to the 'unpopular wars', but to all of the major conflicts, many of them undeservedly unknown to many readers: Sri Lanka, Liberia, Northern Ireland, Bosnia, Israel-Palestine, El Salvador, Cambodia, Eritrea-Ethiopia, Persian Gulf, Afghanistan, Lebanon, Falkland Islands, Vietnam, The Middle East, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Algeria, Indochina, Korea, China, World War II, Spain, World War I.  Staggering list: terrifying history of repetition and devastation of human lives and lands.<br /><br />Lori Grinker is a sensitive observer and interviewer.  She has created some images of people of all walks of life, social strata, sex, and backgrounds that are not only superbly executed professional photographs, they are incredibly engaging.  She has elected to design this book in a way that follows a timeline - from the present through the painful pages of the past. In doing so she has succinctly outlined each of the conflicts she is addressing and in doing so brings to our attention many facts about wars that have escaped our attention.<br /><br />She also has taken artistic license by creating images, such as the cover photograph, which at first glance seems to be a relaxing, floating, peaceful swimmer - or is this a patient in a treatment bath after losing the lower parts of his legs?  It is that kind of mental inquiry that sharpens her lessons of speaking about the effects of war. She does not preach, she does not prejudice us: Lori Grinker simply reports.<br /><br />The book's opening essay is a sensitive evaluation of Grinker's contribution, personalized just enough to make it extremely readable and poignant.  The essay opens the door to this volume of experiences that hopefully, through visualization and spoken word of those who survived, will help in the cosmic need to end wars once and for all.  All this is written as the war in Iraq beats on.  Buy, and read, this book.  Highly Recommended on every level.  Grady Harp, March 05.ho survived, will help in the cosmic need to end wars once and for all.  All this is written as the war in Iraq beats on.  Buy, and read, this book.  Highly Recommended on every level.  Grady Harp, March 05.	2005-03-22
310461:US	52496677	R9O1ELXUS93RJ	6308839175	935133957	Mozart Arias	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An artist who deserves wide attention	Soile Isokoski.  Remember that name.  This fine young Finnish soprano has a way with Mozart we've not heard in some years. The voice is not huge, but it is so well focused, so nuanced in sensitive phrasing, so completely committed to the text that size really doesn't matter!  Included in this collection completely devoted to the works of Mozart are concert arias ('Ch'io mi scordi di te' for example) as well as beloved arias from 'Cosi Fan Tutte' and 'Le Nozze di Figaro'.  Isokoski has an impeccable sense of line and color and communicates  these works with a nobility of style that has been lacking on the opera stages of late. She is beautifully supported here by Peter Schreier conducting the Tapiola Sinfonietta along with pianist Marita Viitasalo for the concert aria.<br /><br />If Isokoski is able to command a physical presence in the opera house the way she wholly commands her vocal presence on this disc, we have a major artist in front of us.  Highly recommended.<br /><br />Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-18
318783:US	52496677	R3FLDRU1SLK06A	1891024981	633474983	Robert Polidori's Metropolis	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Photography of Architecture as Archaeology	Photographer Robert Polidori is at once a journalist and an artist and combines these two elements of inspection and observation into a remarkably beautiful and touching book.<br /><br />Polidori is fascinated, even obsessed, with architecture as evidence of the presence or absence of man, praising the feats of the creators and the flaws of the destroyers.  Based on his photographs of devastated buildings in Beirut, Chernobyl, Pripyat, and the crumblings of Brasilia and our own New York tenement buildings, Polidori's photographs are at once beautiful images of execution and tragic reminders of the building up and tearing down of man's proof of his existence in this civilization.<br /><br />Adding to the drama of this touching portfolio are interviews with the artist sensitively conducted by Martin C. Pedersen (who just happens to be the editor of the magazine METROPOLIS).  These conversations illuminate the interstices of the buildings photographed, suggesting why the hidden back rooms, stairwells, and hallways tell as much about the life of the building as do the facades Polidori finds so fascinating.<br /><br />For students of Architecture, Photography, Sociology, Archaeology and for all who appreciate the fine art of photography, this is a book of rare distinction.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-11
318795:US	52496677	R1U37OTF0DZUQ9	1420800302	241480688	Seed's Sketchy Relationship Theories - A Guide to the Perils of Dating: (How Not To Become A Bar Regular)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wise, Wicked, Hilarious and Genuinely Sensitive Guide!	\\"The Seed & German Seed\\" may be just preposterous pseudonyms for now,  but with the publication of this unique, immensely readable book the true authors hopefully will step forward for a much-deserved bow!<br /><br />SEED'S SKETCHY RELATIONSHIP THEORIES: A GUIDE TO THE PERILS OF DATING [HOW NOT TO BECOME A BAR REGULAR]  is a long title that even in its length doesn't even begin to suggest what is in store for the curious, open minded reader.  This is not a 'self-help' or a 'how to' manual: Seed and German Seed have taken a long look at our present world condition, with a special emphasis on individual evaluation and interaction with the universe, and have come up with some very thoughtful ideas and precepts by which the reader can jump in and start over at this bizarre process we call living.<br /><br />Starting out with ways in which we can alter our priorities to focus more on the preparation of our inner (and outer) self, Seed offers constructive advice without preaching.  One aspect that may alter the way some readers approach the wisdom contained in this book is Seed's excessive use of a particular expletive.  But as he explains so soundly, language is what it is and to fancify words can at times alter the wholeness of the concept - and certainly the comedy to be found in living life honestly.<br /><br />Other reviewers have singled out portions of this book as favorites - an enviable task I find difficult at best! -  but there is one recurring area that deserves special attention: Seed's manifesto about gay folk is sensitive and wise and well written even for the most committed phobic folk.  He does this with high comedy (lists for women to use to determine if their men have proclivities versus full time commitment) all the while reassuring everyone that we all need is to live and let live and take care of our own variations of normal before raising the hatchet toward those of others.<br /><br />After about two thirds of the way through this entertaining and at times illuminating book the authors lose focus and the last third feels a bit like a standup comic filling time.  But in these pages are also suggestions that there will be more works from this duo coming down the pike and the pathways they are choosing sound most intriguing.<br /><br />Get ready for a good time, put away your censorship for toilet mouthed humor, and open your mind (and yes, heart) to the shenanigans herein.  It is a fine piece of work!  Grady Harp, March 05ng and at times illuminating book the authors lose focus and the last third feels a bit like a standup comic filling time.  But in these pages are also suggestions that there will be more works from this duo coming down the pike and the pathways they are choosing sound most intriguing. <br /> <br />Get ready for a good time, put away your censorship for toilet mouthed humor, and open your mind (and yes, heart) to the shenanigans herein.  It is a fine piece of work!  Grady Harp, March 05 <br /> <br />	2005-03-11
319425:US	52496677	R2HORDIBW8E3QV	3905514877	675116920	Broken Spirits	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Still Life and Photographic Composition	BROKEN SPIRITS is a short but urgent study of the sanctity of 'nature morte'.  Eberhard Grames works are composed still lifes that use dead objects - animal and vegetable - and instead of photographing these objects as they are found, Grames brings them into the studio and arranges disparate objects in fascinating tableaus that are as beautiful as they are sad.<br /><br />There is much to be said about the centuries old tradition of painting still life imagery: it has been the means by which artists continue to hone their skills as observers since the early 1500s.  Many photographers have embraced the memento mori genre since the invention of the camera, but few have raised this odd emphasis on lifeless objects to the level of poetry that is here evident in these works by Eberhard Grames.  Highly recommended for art students as well as photography buffs.  Grady Harp, March 2005	2005-03-11
321042:US	52496677	RR1V0QZ4JL7BT	1904563015	153669180	Open Wound: Chechnya 1994-2003	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Stunning and Disturbing...and Ongoing	Stanley Greene is a fine photojournalist - with a heart.  In this disturbing portfolio he has captured the grisly details of the ongoing war in Chechnya.  This book is limited to the years 1994 through 2003 and one of the areas of emphasis is the destruction of Chechnya's capital city of Grozny.  But Green doesn't stop there.<br /><br />Some could argue about the varying concepts of responsibility and political 'correctness' of this simmering cauldron of a war.  But no one who reads this book can deny the too familiar aspects of what is captured here in photographs.  War, whether confined to small countries or vast regions, is still a hungry and insatiable beast, and we can never view enough of the atrocities such as Greene is showing us that serve as constant reminders that we MUST find a viable alternative means of resolution of differences than the horror of the war machine.<br /><br />Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-10
321131:US	52496677	R3FPVKUFJY8PHH	3908247713	571343759	The Dr. Ikkaku Ochi Collection: Medical Photographs from Japan Around 1900	Books	5	19	20	N	N	As Important a Document as it is Fascinating!	It is rare that the public has the opportunity to view 'medical abnormalities' in a platform that is not related to sideshows/circuses.  This beautifully presented collection of people born with aberrant bodies, or who developed the sequelae of diseases once thought of as 'unclean' and therefore not to be observed, is the work of the Japanese physician Dr. Ikkaku Ochi a quiet genius who not only had the medical foresight to capture these stoic and brave patients on film, he also had the ability to compose images that are at once realistic and artistic.<br /><br />True, other photographers such as Diane Arbus sought out similar subjects and it is through those portfolios that we have a bit of an introduction to the myriad treasures of this volume.  But given the fact that these photographs were all taken in the decade around 1900 and that they were taken by a consummately humanistic physician allows us to study and appreciate all the variations that nature can produce - in a manner of sanctity and respect for the human soul.<br /><br />This may not be a book for everyone, but for those who are devoted to photography and to medicine and to all the studies in between, this volume of Medical Photography from Japan circa 1900 is a humbly and warmly fascinating book.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-09
321303:US	52496677	R2CGKTXXO0MTVM	0822318687	145169831	Disappearing Acts: Spectacles of Gender and Nationalism in Argentina's "Dirty War"	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Not a First Resource  Seeking Information on The Dirty War	Diana Taylor is a brilliant writer and an obviously informed expert on the Dirty War of Argentina (1963 - 1976), a writer who has composed a Doctoral Thesis approach to her well-informed information about this misunderstood atrocity that nearly destroyed Argentina.  Yet sound as her thoughts are and intensely well documented though her theories prove to be, this book is not recommended as the first line of information about this subject.<br /><br />Taylor's premise involves theories as to how the Dirty War, or the atmosphere under the military juntas that replaced Peronism, are based on her observations as to how the public remained fearfully silent during this time of concentration camps, torture, atrocities, and most importantly the 'desaparecidos' (or disappearing ones) whose only voices were in the quiet marches of the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo. She informs us that the use of plays and spectacles attended by the Argentinians were in their own way a show of defiance to the manipulative military juntas. Performance, theatre, and poetry were the elected means of tacitly protesting the totalitarian military rule that choked this country until the fall of the juntas in the war over the Malvinas/Falkland Islands with Great Britain.<br /><br />While all of what Taylor has to say is interesting and novel and important, what is needed to gain the most from this heady book is more time spent educating the reader about the political and social history of Argentina.  Though the \\"Dirty War' is at times referenced in conversations about South American politics, sadly most of what we as the general public know of what lead up to the military takeover of the government is what we glean from such feeble resources as the musical EVITA!  Though Taylor attempts to reference the state of Peronism in contrasting the fall of Juan and Evita (and subsequently Isabelita) Peron as a period of hallowing the feminine influence of the 'weak' but loved leaders, she jumps too quickly into the theory of the military overthrow as a reaction to the feminine, the desecration of the female standard so  toppled by the military in its abusive treatment of women and children.<br /><br />Where Taylor particularly shines (and there is MUCH to appreciate in this turgid, difficult to read book) is in her extended discussion of the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo.  Here her theories all seem to gel. What is copiously discussed in the plays, poetry, and public spectacles (and Taylor is an experienced performance artist herself) is very important information, but draws excessive focus to the sedentary response to the Dirty War.<br /><br />This book is doubtless an important document about a too little understood period of Argentinean history and Taylor is careful to point out similarities of public response in the US and in other countries whose governments seem less and less For and Of and By the people.  I would recommend starting with  more basic book about this period in time to reap the rewards that Diana Taylor has to offer in DISAPPEARING ACTS: SPECTACLES OF GENDER AND NATIONALISM IN ARGENTINA'S 'DIRTY WAR'.  Grady Harp, March 05the theory of the military overthrow as a reaction to the feminine, the desecration of the female standard so  toppled by the military in its abusive treatment of women and children. <br /> <br />Where Taylor particularly shines (and there is MUCH to appreciate in this turgid, difficult to read book) is in her extended discussion of the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo.  Here her theories all seem to gel. What is copiously discussed in the plays, poetry, and public spectacles (and Taylor is an experienced performance artist herself) is very important information, but draws excessive focus to the sedentary response to the Dirty War. <br /> <br />This book is doubtless an important document about a too little understood period of Argentinean history and Taylor is careful to point out similarities of public response in the US and in other countries whose governments seem less and less For and Of and By the people.  I would recommend starting with  more basic book about this period in time to reap the rewards that Diana Taylor has to offer in DISAPPEARING ACTS: SPECTACLES OF GENDER AND NATIONALISM IN ARGENTINA'S 'DIRTY WAR'.   Grady Harp, March 05   <br /> <br />	2005-03-09
321397:US	52496677	R1QKLLU6WD815E	0312264305	221949368	Man: Photographs of the Male Nude	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Celebrating the Male Nude	MAN: PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE MALE NUDE is not trying to be an erotic book of suggestive poses or innuendoes.  The works of four male photographers -Trevor Watson, Tony Butcher, and Toni Catany - and the lone female photographer Za-Hazzanani are well presented in both black and white and sepia toned images and are more sculptural than expository.<br /><br />The apparent intent of these photographers (or of the editor) is to present the nude male form as an art object and in doing so each of these fine photographers has succeeded in exploring muscle mass as it reflects or absorbs light and shadow.  The models are of the 'ideal' sort and there is no pretense to encourage us to get to know the inner workings of the models' response to the art of photography.  These fine photographs are more about Objective then Subjective, and in that stance they  flow in this beautiful portfolio with an elegant sophistication.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-09
321402:US	52496677	R1UI9G964VKF29	0942642414	487265209	Collaboration: The Photographs of Paul Cadmus Margaret French and Jared French	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Moments in the lives of Intricately Related People	This book is one of the rare photographic essays that concentrates on the lives of artists whose lives were so intertwined that the history of it all is like a novel.  Margaret French and Jared French were particularly fine photographers and were able to capture the special moments of intimacy and extroversion such as that seen on Fire Island in such a way that each picture is woven into the framework of occult affairs!  There are many photos of painter Paul Cadmus as well as Jared French, Lincoln Kirsten, George Platt Lynes that suggest a filial society not unlike that of Auden and his crew or Bacon and friends.<br /><br />Included in this survey of candid and not so candid photographs are reproductions of some of Paul Cadmus' paintings that are only now enjoying the popularity they justly deserve.  This is a peek into a private party that is a voyeur's dream: would that we could capture the interlocking lives of every group of artists who influenced each other's works and lives!  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-09
321472:US	52496677	R1AGYSJOU61FMM	0934418594	264179744	Francis Bacon: The Papal Portraits of 1953	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An Important  Examination of the Oeuvre of Francis Bacon	Just when you thought you had every treatise about the edgy painter of confrontational imagery from the brush of Francis Bacon, up pops this well designed and written book on just how this amazing artist approached an image, an idea, and carried that to completion.  Written by Bacon scholar Hugh Marlais Davies and including an interview with the artist that to my knowledge finds its first publication in this volume, this small but impressive book served as a catalogue for the exhibition FRANCIS BACON: THE PAPAL PORTRAITS OF 1953 presented by the Museum of Contemporary art of San Diego in La Jolla, California in 2001.<br /><br />The exhibition, and this accompanying catalogue, was powerful in that it focused on eight studies for the papal series (emphasizing the response to Velasquez' popes) that Bacon painted in three weeks time in 1953.  Here is all of the energy and agony, the distillation of Bacon's view of the Church and the Universe, and the opportunity to scrutinize Bacon's technique of drawing to painting that makes these portrait studies so important to artist, scholar and art lover alike.<br /><br />As in the exhibition, the portraits are ordered in a circular fashion in the main hall, and this installation is reproduced well in this volume.  Then each portrait study is individually presented with the exceptionally educational essay by Davies. One leaves this books the same way the exhibition impressed the visitors - informed, appalled, fascinated and moved.  An important document in the books on the life and works of Francis Bacon.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-09
321673:US	52496677	R1ADH8B7N66RQ2	0679427449	351623462	The Face of Mercy: A Photographic History of Medicine at War	Books	5	1	1	N	N	War from the Eyes and Hearts of Medical Workers	THE FACE OF MERCY: A PHOTOGRAPHIC HISTORY OF MEDICINE AT WAR is a powerful compendium of images and responses to the hungry monster of war that still stalks this sadly ignorant planet.  For those who need to evaluate the madness and destruction of war unchanged since the beginning of time, this volume forces us to SEE via photographs taken from the time the camera was invented to the present: here is irrefutable evidence, uncensored by the media, that war is a pitiful response to those who fight and those who wait at home and especially those who are called to tend to the wounded and dying on the fronts and in the residual hospitals housing  fragments of human lives that always follow war.<br /><br />The photography is for the most 'amateur' in execution, but that only emphasizes the immediacy of the brutality of the machine of death.  From the opening photographs of Mathew Brady who froze the Civil War in the nineteenth century, through the horrors of World Wars I and II, the 'small wars' fought in civil conflicts in smaller countries, the Russo-Japanese War, the Korean War, the Vietnam tragedy, observations captured by Salgado, and the images from  Somalia and Croatia which were the most recent wars at the time of publication of this book in 1993 - all are documented visually with enormous power.<br /><br />Writers of the quality of William Styron, Ward Just, and Stuart Nuland add to the impact of this paean and plea for peace.  Yet some of the most touching elements of this important book are the asides from the soldiers and the medical workers in the field captured in utter simplicity by the author Matthew Maythons.<br /><br />If this book were in the homes of every family on the globe, perhaps the resultant response would be strong enough that mankind might be forced to witness that War is the Enemy, not People.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-09
321679:US	52496677	R13UKXUVONIAL2	0821227912	844264235	Dorothea Lange: The Heart and Mind of a Photographer	Books	5	13	13	N	N	At Last, the Definitive Work on Dorothea Lange	DOROTHEA LANGE: THE HEART AND MIND OF A PHOTOGRAPHER for the first time documents more completely the life and creative output of one of the most influential photographers of the 20th Century.  Including photographs of Lange in her childhood and then progressing through the formal studio fashion photos that started her career to the stunning documentation of the dust bowl migrant workers of the 1930s to the final images in the 1960s, this compendium includes essays and comments by AD Coleman, Ralph Gibson, and Sam Stourdze that enhance the viewers' experience.<br /><br />Dorothea Lange was as much a sociologist and commentator on the human condition as she was a consummate photographer.  She moved through the world of disenfranchised peoples with a tenderness and vision that was never cloying: honesty as captured in her famous photographs was also from her view of the people she sought to memorialize.  Her contribution to the knowledge of the plight of the poor is unfathomable.<br /><br />Yet given all of this, the power of page after page of her works form the massive archives of the Oakland Museum, including many works never before published in book form, makes a statement no words can match.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-09
322170:US	52496677	R1KHVAZDV0417Z	1576872297	875129492	Celebrating Women	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Kaleidoscopic Survey of the Magnificence of Women!	Paolo Gianturco is not only a VERY fine photographer, capable of capturing some of the richest color panoramas available in print today, she is also a woman with a mission: Gianturco opens doors, windows and any available aperture to celebrate the glory of Woman.<br /><br />Gianturco traveled the world, with obvious extended stays in China, Thailand, Spain, Poland, Bolivia, Finland, and the USA, and found a phenomenal number of festivals and events that allow us insights into the various cultures of the world and their particular  means of paying tribute to Women.  Whether the festivals honor women as goddesses, athletes, healers, warriors, lovers, or heroes, Gianturco photographed these festivals in all their grandeur and then focused on individuals and small groups to make each event a personal conversation.<br /><br />Her writing is of the highest order: Gianturco shares secrets and cultural pride in her reporting of interviews and personal responses to what she has observed.  This is a gifted artist both in photography and written word.  To saunter through these pages is to visit peoples, places, and customs new to most of us (with the possible exception of her folio on the Miss USA contest!).  Her CELEBRATING WOMEN is successful on every level.  Highly recommended for all libraries. Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-09
322235:US	52496677	R2HFIWTU1RHOML	3791326007	988683075	Blood: Art, Power, Politics, and Pathology	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Provocative and Fascinating Dissection of Life's Essence	This book accompanied an exhibition at the Museum fur Angewandte Kunst und Kunsthalle Schirn, Frankfurt am Main in 2002: reading this enthralling book makes one wish that the exhibition had traveled!<br /><br />James Bradburne is the primary author of this treatise on the vital body substance Blood - a fluid that has challenged the imagination of philosophers, scientists, clergy and artists for centuries.  Beginning with the paintings from the Middle Ages preoccupied with the blood of Christ as a symbol for both death and life, this survey is wonderfully illustrated with high quality reproductions of paintings, etchings, sculpture from the past down to contemporary art of video and installation performances that focus on blood as the single most important source of life, death, sickness, health, miracles, power, domination and subjugation.<br /><br />Not always for the faint of heart, Bradburne includes images of Gunther Brus in his self-mutilation performances, drawings of the elements of blood, references to blood as the transmitter of AIDS and other past and present atrocities.  The spectrum of the topic extends from the art houses and cathedrals to the media and cartoons and is fairly complete in the resonance it creates in the dichotomy of positive and negative.<br /><br />Would that there were more exhibitions of this quality and bravery! But what remains is a book that makes for fascinating reading and looking, and more than that an isolated exhibition cannot hope for as an extended life!  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-09
322387:US	52496677	RN91G03P2DB9Q	0893819190	333948150	Flor Garduo: Witnesses Of Time	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sentinels to the Passage of Time	Flor Garduno is a mystical artist. She travels about the Americas pausing to observe and conserve rituals of the sacred and profane nature as embodied in the native peoples of Mexico,<br /><br />Guatemala, Peru, Bolivia, and Ecuador.  At times her photographs may seem stark or frozen in time or posed to minimize interaction with the surrounding landscape/homescape, but this technique only adds to the mystical element Garduno celebrates.<br /><br />There is something timeless in these moments of ancient ritual, as though Garduno wants us to revere the passage of time as reliquaries for 'lost' civilizations.  Yet her subjects and objects are extant: there is no gathering of elements from museums to authenticate these images.  These are people and places that time passes by with respect and with reverence.<br /><br />Some of the beauty of this portfolio is Garduno's concentration on the landscape as an equally important component of her travels.  She captures the land of these remote regions in a manner that regards its holiness, its sanctity, its durable presence despite the shift of the winds and the ravages of weather.<br /><br />This is a book for contemplation.  The photographs are accompanied by an illuminating essay by none other than the brilliant Mexican novelist Carlos Fuentes. This is a book that is highly recommended for personal libraries as well as for deeply thoughtful gifts.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-09
323326:US	52496677	RSBLSQP51FZHL	0944092381	45189655	Disfarmer: Heber Springs Portraits, 1939-1946; From the Collections of Peter Miller and Julia Scully	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Shining Reality	Mike Disfarmer was a commercial photographer in Heber Springs, Arkansas and devoted his studio time to capturing completely unfettered, natural, no props, no nonsense formal photographs of the folk who lived in Heber Springs.  These photographs were for personal use - mementos, pictures to send to soldiers away at WW II, pictures to document families.  As such these photos are some of the most tender presentations of small town folk in middle America.  They are honest and in that honesty they are extraordinarily beautiful.<br /><br />The presentation of the photographs on matte black background serves to enhance the classically poetic feel of this work.  This is a mesmerizing portfolio, guaranteed to stir many memories of faded dreams.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-08
323876:US	52496677	R1SYXG8KQMU8IA	1892041553	876665345	Hollywood Cowboy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Youth Lost in Dreams, Vanity, and Solitude	HOLLYWOOD COWBOY is a perfect companion work to Paul Jasmin's LOST ANGELES.  Jasmin is a sensitive observer whose camera seems to gravitate toward romantically inclined casual portraits of beautiful people in enchanted environs. Here is a full mixture of males and females, nude and clothed, all seeming to have that intransigence of the private or public desire to 'become' in Hollywood.  There are actors and actresses, models, hustlers, loners, and crowd leaners captured by Jasmin's dramatic focus in moments of ultimate vulnerability.<br /><br />Though not all of the subjects for these photographs are what we would consider 'beautiful', there is an innocence that is beguiling.  Whether captured inside decorous or smarmy rooms or out on the streets and parks, these people find their way into our own dream factories, whether or not those dreams ever were realized or not.  A beautiful collection with excellent color and black and white reproduction.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-07
324558:US	52496677	R1WKIKB7RI8TA1	082295866X	747573505	A Century Of Heroes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	True Heroes, Unsung until Carnegie	This beautifully produced book is an official publication of the Andrew Carnegie Hero Fund Commission, a foundation started by Carnegie to honor those among us who risk their lives in heroic efforts to selflessly save fellow human beings.  Each 'chapter' is devoted to one of these recipients of the Carnegie Hero Medal from 1907 to the present.<br /><br />The most moving aspect of this wholly satisfying book is the fact that each of these heroes is one among us, a person who when confronted with potential tragedy, forgets self to render help to unknown others.  This sort of sensitivity  goes unnoticed, or is quickly scanned by the media as the story du jour to spark newspaper sales and then is forgotten.  Not so with the Carnegie Hero Medalists. They are here captured with photographs that often include the incident of note, but also speak to the genuine humanity found in the most unexpected places and people.<br /><br />Wars and blights and political strife are always resources for the finding of heroes.  The fact that these heroes may be standing next to us in the simple life of America is deeply touching.  Grady Harp, March 05	2005-03-07
328297:US	52496677	R3SGXO8P7SC3JC	0805066756	56637585	Sylvia and Ted	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Most Decidedly, a Mixed Bag	SYLVIA AND TED, a strangely designed blue-gray book with a flower whose petals are grasped by fish hooks on the cover, a short novel by one Emma Tennant, sat with multiple copies on the table of \\"drastically reduced books for sale\\" at a local bookstore.  Interest in the poetry of Ted Hughes and also that of the last works of Sylvia Plath made me curious enough to buy it without much thought.  And it sat on my desk for months until one rainy evening it served to usurp my time for about three hours of reading.  It is a strange book.<br /><br />Emma Tennant (despite her apparent connections with Ted Hughes) is a curious writer.  In SYLVIA AND TED she seems more intent on creating an atmosphere for the odd love story between two poets than in committing a biography to paper.  In doing so she succeeds on some levels.  The book is divided into years of importance in the lives of Sylvia Plath, Ted Hughes and Assia Wevill - and in this manner she seems to be in awe of Michael Cunningham's THE HOURS, so intense is her exploration into the dark moods of each of these moments in time. And had she remained focused in this style then this book would have had a better chance at succeeding.<br /><br />Tennant's problem is her self-indulgent verbiage, waxing literary in mythology and in symbolism that is more of a distraction than a significant modifier to the tale of two suicides over a single poet.  To her credit she does manage a style of reportage that constantly keeps her in a position of close observer to the creative mind of Sylvia Plath.  There is enough information about the disintegration of Plath's mind to make her suicide seem credible, no mean feat for a writer.  But why include Assia Wevill from the very first of the book, weaving her in and out of the story at will as though setting Assia up a  trope for all of Ted Hughes' well-documented assignations?<br /><br />Quibbling?  Perhaps. This is not the book to read for a biography of these well known subjects: this is a theme and variations on the lives of artists heavily weighted with poetically inclined diversions.  It has its moments.  Grady Harp, March 2005s is a theme and variations on the lives of artists heavily weighted with poetically inclined diversions.  It has its moments.  Grady Harp, March 2005	2005-03-04
332533:US	52496677	R1D9AT9DU3R9HH	0595311849	125282483	Out of the Blue: Book One of Project Infinity	Books	4	2	2	N	N	When Science Fiction Becomes a Credible Threat	Tom Inabnet knows what he is about in his first fiction novel.  With a background in Information Technology and having at least two works on scientific technology published (\\"Anti-Gravitational Propulsion Devices\\" and \\"LASER Dynamics in a Magnetic Field\\" no less!) he knows how to construct 'science fiction' with authority.  And since the full title of his first book includes the words 'Book One of Project Infinity', we can assume there are other installments to come in this seemingly proposed 'series' of stories.  That is good to know, because for the few inherent weaknesses in this 'first novel', we are assured that here is a writer who seems to have found his metre.<br /><br />I'm not a fan of science fiction, being one of the few who doesn't queue up for films like MATRIX etc.  I am a fan of informed scientific daydreaming and creativity and Inabnet falls comfortable into that category.  The 'Infinity Device', the focal object in this fast paced thriller, is a 'matter transmitter' - a creation that given sufficient energy input can shift a mass of matter of any kind from one location to another without the usual means of transportation - commercial or warheads.  Is that possible?  Well, read this book and you'll think so...and tremble.<br /><br />The story, by means of fulfilling its obligations as a novel, involves scientists, the military, espionage, intrigue, and the requisite love interests to pull it along.  Inabnet writes well and can create believable folks on all sides of his story dilemma while suffusing the style of his novel with short chapters and subchapters that bounce the reader from one group of activity to another in preparation for the final coming together of all the disparate groups in the finale.<br /><br />It is a given that science fiction novels must ground themselves with peripheral people and their interactions/trysts/betrayals etc in order to keep the main object of focus afloat.  If the characters Inabnet molds are a bit on the expected trope side, then this is a trait he can easily polish as he proceeds into his next novel.  For this reader the major problem with this book is that we as non-scientific minds need MUCH more information about the Infinity Device: Inabnet describes it well albeit briefly and the device is so interesting and significant that the story would sail along even better if we had more technical information to grow into as the story progresses.<br /><br />Some of the above comments may appear 'picky', but they are made out of respect for the overall worthiness of this book.  The one glaring mistake in this particular publication is a cover photograph that looks like a fashion magazine ad or a series of headshots for nice looking models, but in no way suggests to the browsing reader that OUT OF THE BLUE is book worth reading.  And sometimes it is the little things that keep potential audiences away from books as fine as this one.  Grady Harp, March 2005xpected trope side, then this is a trait he can easily polish as he proceeds into his next novel.  For this reader the major problem with this book is that we as non-scientific minds need MUCH more information about the Infinity Device: Inabnet describes it well albeit briefly and the device is so interesting and significant that the story would sail along even better if we had more technical information to grow into as the story progresses. <br /> <br />Some of the above comments may appear 'picky', but they are made out of respect for the overall worthiness of this book.  The one glaring mistake in this particular publication is a cover photograph that looks like a fashion magazine ad or a series of headshots for nice looking models, but in no way suggests to the browsing reader that OUT OF THE BLUE is book worth reading.  And sometimes it is the little things that keep potential audiences away from books as fine as this one.  Grady Harp, March 2005	2005-03-01
334657:US	52496677	R1JU9K6G8HNM2A	1841956252	523968789	Tamburlaine Must Die	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Taut  Tale of the Mysterious Death of Christopher Marlowe	\\"The dead are equal.\\"  \\"The dead are dead.\\"<br /><br />Louise Welsh knows how to distill a potion of historical mystery into a novella of such power that it compels the reader to read this treat in one sitting.  Unlike many authors who fictionalize history as the basis for novels, Welsh merely takes an isolated idea and expands on it like a theme and variations, all the while creating an atmosphere so vivid that he reader is utterly transported to the time, the place, and the consequences of her story.<br /><br />Based on the fact that the death of playwright Christopher Marlowe has never been explained, Welsh focuses on a theory based on a character created by Marlowe - one Tamburlaine, a man of scandal and impetuous actions who was Marlowe's most evil concoction - explains the bizarre facts behind the mystery.<br /><br />Set in 1593 when the Plague was eating London alive, Christopher Marlowe is summoned form the bed of his wealthy patron Thomas Walsingham to the Privy Council of the Queen where he is questioned about acts of heresy (in actuality a witch hunt to explain the dire etiology of the Plague!). Notes have been left throughout the city of London in the name of Tamburlaine and Marlowe has 72 hours to discover the plot behind the lies that implicate him as a traitor against the kingdom.<br /><br />Populated with fellow actors (especially Blaize, a former lover and popular actor on the stages of London), writers, booksellers, and even figures such as Sir Walter Raleigh, this romp through the filth and pestilence that Welsh so well paints as London is as tense as any thriller, as illuminating as any psychological study, and as entertaining as history can be in the hands of a great novelist. She is an accomplished wordsmith and as creative a writer as any writing today.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, February 2005	2005-02-27
339417:US	52496677	R1CUOQLMGNUSEE	1582341249	754361498	Guernica: The Biography of a Twentieth-Century Icon	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Learned, Fascinating Paean to the Importance of GUERNICA	Gijs van Hensbergen has contributed a fine volume to the libraries of books on the Atrocity of War, on the History of Spain under Franco's dictatorship, on the influence of Pablo Picasso on the development of the US as an art center after centuries of living in the shadow of Europe, of the Development of the very American art school of Abstract Expressionism, of the<br /><br />rise and fall of Communism and its attendant 'McCarthy Era' of American isolationism, and ultimately of the journey of the infamous painting 'Guernica' from its creation in Paris to its world tour, its home in New York's Museum of Modern Art to its eventual return to the country that stimulated its creation - the Prado Museum in Madrid, Spain.<br /><br />Long first sentence: long journey.  The author of this fascinating book packs so much information into the well-illustrated story that 'Guernica' reads like a novel yet informs like a treatise.  Initially painted by Picasso in 1937 in response to Franco's Nazi-assisted 'training lab' annihilation of the city of Gernika in the Basque region of Spain. 'Guernica\\" has become a symbol of the atrocity of war, the capability of man's inhumanity to man, and the global fear of self-destruction if we are not more in guardianship of the forces of war machines that continue to grind down the surface of this planet.<br /><br />van Hensbergen writes so well that the amount of information contained in this readable tome never overwhelms: it is just there as backup for every statement he makes.  He firmly believes that 'Guernica' is the most important painting of the 20th Century, not only because of its critical breakthrough in the art world of the changes in representation (the Cubist movement), nor because of the rally against totalitarian force wherever it occurs (including the My-Lai atrocity with which the US bruised mankind in the Vietnam conflict, etc), but also because of the profound impact this painting had upon entering the USA, in easy access to the artists who responded to its power by developing  the first truly original American art movement - Abstract Expressionism.<br /><br />It is often said that the artist is the ultimate philosopher.  Nowhere is this better stated than in this absorbing book about the power of a single painting on the course of history in the 2oth Century.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, February 2005he artists who responded to its power by developing  the first truly original American art movement - Abstract Expressionism. <br /> <br />It is often said that the artist is the ultimate philosopher.  Nowhere is this better stated than in this absorbing book about the power of a single painting on the course of history in the 2oth Century.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, February 2005	2005-02-23
340440:US	52496677	R2JUPZ7OL3KZP9	3822822582	342700872	Kula	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Bow to Artistic Freedom and Sexual Awakening	Vlastimil Kula breaks about every one of our social and sexual mores by simply photographing his subjects without censorship.  While the ballad of sexual freedom of the 20th Century has opened the printed material that explores human sexuality to include just about every variant imaginable, along comes Kula with his wide ranging palate of simply observing the human sexual animal at rest and at play and we have here a survey of uninhibited photographs that are anything but pornographic: these pictures may be on the edge but they are always illuminating.<br /><br />Using both male and female subjects in about every variation or combination available, Kula even photographs himself photographing subjects, giving the viewer the option that there really is no reason not to see what we are seeing. The people we observe enjoying nearly every bodily function do not suggest morality/immorality so much as freedom.<br /><br />Odd how in painting these images are usually abstracted or pushed into the periphery, becoming part of the fabric that the artist may choose to drape the central concept of a work.  Here Kula makes these variations on a sensual theme the focus and as such he may cause discomfort in some viewers, but with exposure to repeated imagery the message is clear:  critique is in the mind and eye of the observer.  Kula is more interested in unlocking those tiny doors of censorship that prevent our minds from experiencing the full spectrum of sexual awareness. Grady Harp, February 2005	2005-02-22
340486:US	52496677	R23CN4JE05DI36	0740747134	793756691	Diana: The Portrait	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	The Compleat Princess Di	Given this book as a gift made me pay more attention to it than if I were browsing to buy it in a bookstore.  Not being one for media blitz I have not paid attention to many books of this sort (and there certainly are many of them).  However, seeing that this is a compendium of a significant human being's life in pictures and interviews, accolades, and heartfelt memories makes one feel the mighty impact this beautiful woman had on the lives of those she touched.  The photography ranges from snapshots to formal portraiture and focuses more on the person behind all the blitz than on the royal facade.<br /><br />Rosalind Coward is to be commended for compiling all of these photographs that literally cover the entire life of the Princess of Wales.  But even more so, she is to be lauded for presenting a book that is not mawkish but encourages the Princess' many fans to carry on the work dear to her heart.  A fine memorial to one of the luminaries of the 20th Century.  Grady Harp, February 2005	2005-02-22
342864:US	52496677	R1M3YEY9MYOBAF	067003343X	206446430	A Bit on the Side: Stories	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Tinkering with Secrets and Other Hidden Things	William Trevor guides us through streets and dank parlors and weakly lighted public places where his characters guard or choose to unravel those darker aspects of living he understands so well. In A BIT ON THE SIDE Trevor has written twelve short stories that could have been written by no one else.  His prodigious gifts as a writer make him privy to the musings we all hold in private, knowing that voicing them would doubtless find misunderstanding glances in parting eyes of the people in retreat from our confessions.<br /><br />Where does Trevor find these thoughts, much less these subtly drawn characters?  In lonely corner tables in pubs, in the shy fears of wives of husbands departed in body or in spirit, in expectations of young Irish girls dreaming of better lives in America, or of poor pregnant mothers willing to offer their incipient child for adoption to spare their husband's jobless humiliation?<br /><br />While William Trevor is a demanding author, one who graces his stories with subtle time lapses or changes that require the reader to be on the alert for the assured nuances of his craft, he is never less than amazing in his ability to paint portraits of people so odd in their ordinariness that ending a short story does not allow us to leave them alone.  This is writing of the highest order - challenging, enriching, plangently longing, unforgettable.  These are twelve treasures.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, February 2005	2005-02-21
344220:US	52496677	R26SAM22S6UC0P	1888332107	890170313	The Nude In Contemporary Art	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Richly Diverse, Informative and Entertaining Catalogue	THE NUDE IN CONTEMPORARY ART is a catalogue from an exhibition staged in 1999 at the Aldridge Museum that is still one of the most informed discussions and well-curated statements about the controversial approach to the Nude in art.  For all of the 'enlightment and openness' of the 20th century much of the art from that time (and still) reflected warped and phobic thought processes about the public perception and acceptance of frontal nudity.  This very fine publication addresses those issues well.<br /><br />The Introductory essay by Harry Philbrick \\"The Nude in Our Time: A Brief rumination on the Nude in Contemporary Art\\" concerns the intial impetus for this exhibition - an idea and conversation with artist Karen Finley - and serves to discuss the various artists represented. The second essay is by Karen Finley herself and is self explanatory in its title \\"Drawing from Life\\": her part of the exhibition was  'real time' figure drawing installation art piece.  The final erudite essay is by David McCarthy titled \\"The Nude: That Darling of the Artists, That Necessary Element of Success\\".  All three written portions are not only readable and informative, they are enlivened with wit that enhances this collection of works of art that deal with the nude.<br /><br />Artists included are Jenny Saville, Hanneline Rogeberg, Laura Aguilar, Lucian Freud, Andres Serrano, Lisa Yuskavage, John Currin, Michael Leonard, Andres Serrano, Laura Aguilar, Paul Cadmus, Brett Bigbee, William Beckman, Chuck Close - to name but a few.  The works include photography, drawing, sculpture, and painting and while the sizes of the reproductions are small (the catalogue itself is only 5 1/2\\" X 6\\"!) they are well reproduced.<br /><br />As one who is devoted to representational art with an emphasis on the figure, I can recommend few other small publications more highly.  This book should be in the library of every art school, artist, and art collector who collectively scratch heads as to the ongoing controversies of the nude in fine art.  Highly recommended reading and viewing.  Grady Harp, February 2005ongoing controversies of the nude in fine art.  Highly recommended reading and viewing.  Grady Harp, February 2005 <br /> <br />	2005-02-19
347641:US	52496677	R1EMOW1EBKILOB	0374128715	689175313	The Confessions of Max Tivoli (Today Show Book Club #22)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	"Be what they think you are."	These words are the Rule given the strange main character by his mother as a means of survival. THE CONFESSIONS OF MAX TIVOLI is surely one of the most beautifully creative and poetic novels in contemporary literature. Author Andrew Sean Greer not only has an imagination for unorthodox characters and tales: he has the gift to write his idiiosyncratic novel in words that surpass prose to become poetry.  This is clearly one of the great novels of the 21st century and serves to feed our appetites for more from this artist.<br /><br />A creative twist to the memoirs of an old man reflecting on his youth as he lays dying, THE CONFESSIONS OF MAX TIVOLI sets that construct in reverse.  Born in 1871 to a family of means in San Francisco, Max Tivoli is an aberrant creature, an infant born in the reverse of time, occupying the physical characteristics of an old man, destined to live his life backwards until he dies in 1941 in the form of an infant.  In his bizarre life he meets the one woman he will love throughout his span of time on earth, first as a child (to his elderly appearing body) through his first sexual encounter with Alice's mother (more age appearance appropriate), his courtship and marriage and eventual loss of his wandering Alice in the reaction to the great earthquake of San Francisco and her mother's needs in Pasadena.  Alice marries multiple times and between marriages has a reunion with Max and conceives a male child.  Max Tivoli goes through changes in names as well as changes in physical appearance and follows his beloved Alice across America were as a youth he is ultimately adopted by Alice and lives with his own son Sammy in the form of a smaller brother.<br /><br />Max's only constant through his life is his childhood friend Hughie who ages normally as Max ages in reverse. It is this tender relationship thqat carries the book through to its tender conclusion.  And though some who have not read this miraculous little novel may find this explanation redolent  of science fiction or some other incarnation of the tawdry, it is the language of the author that not only carries the tale with care but with some of the most simply perfect writing today.  \\"Death makes children of us all; I learned this in the war.\\"  \\"It is a brave and stupid thing, a beautiful thing, to waste one's life for love.\\"  \\"As for that new identity, Asgar Van Daler.  Well, I was no stranger to playing a part that did not belong to me.  A father, for instance, my young father standing fresh and smiling in the pleasure gardens of his youth, watching the girls and tossing rye bread to the swans, my Danish father in those happy years before he changed his name. Asgar Van Daler.  This inheritance was always mine to claim.  After all, I do live life backwards as a saint; like all the beatified, I consider it my duty to restore the world its losses.\\"<br /><br />Andrew Sean Greer.  Watch for this next novel.  But in the meantime read this one slowly, like sipping a fine wine.  This is treasureable writing.  Grady Harp, February 2005redolent  of science fiction or some other incarnation of the tawdry, it is the language of the author that not only carries the tale with care but with some of the most simply perfect writing today.  \\"Death makes children of us all; I learned this in the war.\\"  \\"It is a brave and stupid thing, a beautiful thing, to waste one's life for love.\\"  \\"As for that new identity, Asgar Van Daler.  Well, I was no stranger to playing a part that did not belong to me.  A father, for instance, my young father standing fresh and smiling in the pleasure gardens of his youth, watching the girls and tossing rye bread to the swans, my Danish father in those happy years before he changed his name. Asgar Van Daler.  This inheritance was always mine to claim.  After all, I do live life backwards as a saint; like all the beatified, I consider it my duty to restore the world its losses.\\" <br /> <br />Andrew Sean Greer.  Watch for this next novel.  But in the meantime read this one slowly, like sipping a fine wine.  This is treasureable writing.  Grady Harp, February 2005	2005-02-16
347777:US	52496677	R3NZ9V8MA6H6LW	1931885117	966775410	Anthony Goicolea	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Exponential Alter Egos!	ANTHONY GOICOLEA makes art that is as much about beautiful photographic compositions as it is about the investigation of pubertal psyches.  Using himself as model, Goicolea creates moments frozen by his camera to create Renaissance-like staged retablos that deal with the childlike approaches to adult dilemmas and situations.  There are pranks, there are episodes of bad behavior, there are surprisingly tender moments of self-exploration.  The artist's imagination is fertile and his ability to create these pictures by manipulating his own physical presence is a bit mind boggling!  But the overall effect is fun and thoughtful and never cloying.  How he is able to do all of this is another bit of magic beyond the resultant fine photographs.  A beautiful book for the art lover's collection.  Grady Harp, February 2005	2005-02-16
349928:US	52496677	RDEIP0XKT5D0O	0975402137	562758865	Mitchell Johnson (2004)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Richly Elegant Monograph of an Important Artist	Mitchell Johnson may not be a name many people in the art world recognize - yet.  But given this young artist's talent and consisitent quality of painting, his time is certainly at hand.  This very beautiful monograph not only gives ample examples of his paintings (with a very fine variety of subject matter and quality of color reproduction), it is accompanied by an essay by poet Peter Campion that not only enhances the viewer's appreciation of the aura created by the paintings, it stands as a fine essay on art in general.<br /><br />Mitchell Johnson's paintings are based on observed landscapes and sites from Italy to California, always parcelling the lush color with divisions of light and shadow that serve to approach abstraction. This manner of presenting observed details and then processing those observations though the mind and eye of the artist committed to color and compositional variations is somewhat suggestive of the best of early Diebenkorn, of Wolf Kahn, of Neil Welliver, and others.  Not that these subtly executed canvases imitate: all of art is appropriation if the sensitive artist lives truly in the moment of the world processed by painters for centuries.  Johnson's world as he sees it draws attention to the geometry of vague blocks of color and space but never obliterates the associated evidences of life there.<br /><br />This is a book to obtain before the edition is gone.  Monographs of this sensitivity are all too rare these days!  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, February 2005	2005-02-14
350537:US	52496677	R1G8D4P9IX7CHD	1418486884	260613340	The Perfect Stock: How A 7000% Move Was Set-up, Started And Finished In An Astonishing 52 Weeks	Books	3	2	4	N	N	But is it a novel?	THE PERFECT STOCK serves as a fine, if somewhat ponderous, course in the ins and outs of the stock market.  Author Brad Koteshwar is obviously well grounded in the basics and interstices of the stock market, and for most of us who quake at the mere mention of Wall Street, this is a fairly accessible introduction to that ever increasingly important corner of our universe.<br /><br />Given all of that, Koteshwar has some difficulty with the basics of creating characters that are more than figures on the ledgers.  It seems that his interest is more in driving home the points of his 'miracle deal' than in  molding his motives into a novel form.  It feels like he will eventually get there, and perhaps with his next book we'll have more story and less statistics!  Grady Harp, February 2005	2005-02-14
355737:US	52496677	R2T1YJAZGAH32D	0962460230	358867747	Representing LA: Pictorial Currents in Southern California Art	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Solid Survey of Representational Art in Los Angeles	REPRESENTING LA is a well-produced catalogue that accompanied an exhibition curated by Gordon L. Fuglie for the Frye Museum in Seattle but then traveled extensively.  As a catlogue it ranks with the finest for a multiartist, survey type of exhibition.  The key interest here displayed and discussed in Fuglie's fine essay is how important traditional values in painting are reseected in the land of Los Angeles, a Lotus Land considered by many to be the hub of intransigence to anything but the current fleeting trends.<br /><br />This survey and accompanying exhibition is divided into the following categories: The Artist, Portraiture, Identity and Self, The Body, Narrative, City, Landscape, Still Life, and Spirit.  These subdivisions blur in the accompanying imagery but then the attempt to categorize paintings from one period in time is always fraught with such judgment problems.  The art varies from excellent to passable, but he content is pungent and there are some reproductions of very important paintings here.  The quality of color reproductions is excellent.<br /><br />For a different 'view' of the art of Los Angeles, this book (74 pages) is highly recommended.  Though many of the artists honored in 2001 are no longer producing work and many of the 'neglected/ignored' artists have gone on to become shining lights, this is a solid survey and well worth the art lovers' attention.  Grady Harp, February 2005	2005-02-09
356131:US	52496677	R1ZMCFEVLMX1JW	188015465X	899653376	Jenny Saville & Glen Luchford: Closed Contact	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An exercise in corporeal exploration	For those who are in awe of the majestic paintings of large nude women by Jenny Saville, this catalogue from an exhibition at Gagosian Gallery in 2002 may be a disappointment. Saville used her own corpulent body pressed against glass that distorts the expected round planes into flat surfaces. The large photographs were done in tandem with photographer Glen Luchford and they are impressive just for the size alone.  But the works don't hold interest the way the paintings with Saville's sculptural use of paint on canvas do.<br /><br />The book is well presented in an oversize scale to echo the size of the photographs.  Katherine Dunn adds an essay that is more about Saville and her inspirations than it is about art history - very conversational and enlightening.  Again,  if you are expecting to see Saville's paintings here then look further.  She is an important and gifted artist. Grady Harp, February 2005	2005-02-09
358678:US	52496677	R9VK5V8I10ZT0	158234146X	51612915	Sarah: A Novel	Books	4	4	9	N	Y	Out of the Curiosity Shop Comes a Sustained Intrigue	JT LeRoy made a noisy splash on the literary scene when SARAH was published in 2000 when he was a mere 19 years old.  Something of the nature of a cult was born and was encouraged by his subsequent work THE HEART IS DECEITFUL ABOVE ALL THINGS and now HAROLD'S END.  This reader read them in reverse order and perhaps that is the reason for a 4 star vs a 5 star rating.<br /><br />LeRoy has talent: there is no question about his skills at writing interesting fiction.  The subject matter is certainly edgy, provocative, and seems bound to ply the shock treatment of his works as the main driver.  But the same has been said about many fine writers in the past who successfully grabbed the audience by the collar and demanded to be heard.  Genet, Lawrence, Gide, Burroughs, Rechy, etc. come to mind.  Having read the three books of his output there does seem at this point to be a sameness that one hopes will dissipate into other arenas, enough to justify his '15 minutes of fame'.<br /><br />SARAH, simply, is a young boy, son of a truck stop prostitute, who has managed to survive his 'home culture' by dressing as a little girl and pandering to the lusts of his mother's tricks and of pedophilic truck drivers at truck stops in West Virginia.  It is a tale of survival, of tenuous dreams misguided, of sexual promiscuity and perversion, and of the 'family' of lizards (prostitutes) and pimps who manage to exist in a squalid environment.  The language is razor sharp, the characters are well drawn if at times caricatures, and LeRoy manages to gain the readers' compassion for nearly every person who populates this strange curiosity shop of living.<br /><br />LeRoy is at his best when he waxes poetic and it is those passages that his latent talent feels most secure.  Young writers like LeRoy are fascinating to watch, to see if the initial burst of flame is sustainable.  I hope it is.  Grady Harp, February 2005	2005-02-07
362157:US	52496677	R1C9UTUHHFVTVK	0399152482	673912589	Run the Risk	Books	5	5	9	N	N	A Pungent New Voice for the Thriller Genre	Scott Frost makes his formal novel debut with a scorchingly fascinating, roller coaster ride of a story set against the background of Pasadena, California during the time in which all eyes are on the sunny and elegant vestige of yesteryear - the New Year's Day Rose Parade.  Frost understands the city and its environs and even for those of us who live here, he opens vistas with his word painting that bring into focus the 'city of perpetual New Year's Day sunlight' and makes that atmosphere add to the fine story of this first novel.<br /><br />Frost has established writing credentials: he has been a scriptwriter for \\"Twin Peaks\\" and \\"Life Goes On\\".  And perhaps that is why this particular novel feels so cinematic.  Few writers can top his conversational tone, written in such distinctive voices that the out-of-quotes 'he said/she said' become obsolete.  Every character in this book is so well defined that were they to pass us on the street we would gasp and think 'I know him'.<br /><br />Frost places the narration of RUN THE RISK in his main character Alex Delillo, a divorced/widowed mother of a teenage girl Lacy who just happens to be a Homicide detective on the Pasadena Police Force.  Alex and Lacy are in the expected struggle that occurs between mother/daughter in the daughter's high school years. The tone of this story is set when Lacy, a Pasadena Rose Queen princess, jolts the proper Pasadenans by spraying pesticide on the crowd as her name is called in the crowning proceedings.  This 'environmentalist' gesture sets into motion a series of incidents that begin with bombs and murders in the florist environs closely associated with the incipient Rose Parade.  Lacy disappears and Alex begins her investigation of what becomes an intensive and razor-sharp search for a man thought to be a terrorist bomber bent on gaining world recognition by setting off a bomb on millions of television screens observing the famous Rose Parade.  But Alex in tandem with a bomb expert Harrison slowly realize that they are not dealing with a terrorist but a serial killer.  Lacy is being held hostage and the one person who can bring this all to a climax is Lacy's terrified but determined mother Alex!<br /><br />How all this weaves into a running series of shocking events, each surprising the reader with gory details and propelling the speed of page turning, is the structure of the novel.  But in contrast to other writers of this genre, Frost has created a protagonist in Alex Delillo who holds not only our attention but our complete empathy, a character so real in her emotions that she quashes all previous perceptions of the hard woman cop.<br /><br />And as this weren't sufficient to place Frost in the prominent arena of fine thriller writers, he also generously displays his sensitive observations of a city and environs like few other writers.  \\"Driving through the garment and jewelry districts of downtown L.A. is like stepping back into a fifty-year-old Kodachrome home movie of Mexico City. Garish colors of cheap clothes and custom jewelry spill out of storefront onto the sidewalks like a street festival. The sweet smells of corn tortillas and diesel fumes drift in the air.  Salsa music competes with mariachi, which competes with sirens and street crime and broken dreams carried from dirt shacks south of the border. It's a place unknown to most inhabitants of the City of Angels, as distant from the gated homes of the Hollywood Hills as a Third World shantytown.\\"<br /><br />In the end Frost sets us up for a sequel but does so in a way that avoids our frustration that we are being milked, replacing that with an intense interest in just what more can Alex Delillo accomplish.  This is a well-written, exciting, tense novel that suggests that Scott Frost will be an increasingly vital force in contemporary fiction.  Grady Harp, February 2005Harrison slowly realize that they are not dealing with a terrorist but a serial killer.  Lacy is being held hostage and the one person who can bring this all to a climax is Lacy's terrified but determined mother Alex! <br /> <br />How all this weaves into a running series of shocking events, each surprising the reader with gory details and propelling the speed of page turning, is the structure of the novel.  But in contrast to other writers of this genre, Frost has created a protagonist in Alex Delillo who holds not only our attention but our complete empathy, a character so real in her emotions that she quashes all previous perceptions of the hard woman cop.   <br /> <br />And as this weren't sufficient to place Frost in the prominent arena of fine thriller writers, he also generously displays his sensitive observations of a city and environs like few other writers.  \\"Driving through the garment and jewelry districts of downtown L.A. is like stepping back into a fifty-year-old Kodachrome home movie of Mexico City. Garish colors of cheap clothes and custom jewelry spill out of storefront onto the sidewalks like a street festival. The sweet smells of corn tortillas and diesel fumes drift in the air.  Salsa music competes with mariachi, which competes with sirens and street crime and broken dreams carried from dirt shacks south of the border. It's a place unknown to most inhabitants of the City of Angels, as distant from the gated homes of the Hollywood Hills as a Third World shantytown.\\"  <br /> <br />In the end Frost sets us up for a sequel but does so in a way that avoids our frustration that we are being milked, replacing that with an intense interest in just what more can Alex Delillo accomplish.  This is a well-written, exciting, tense novel that suggests that Scott Frost will be an increasingly vital force in contemporary fiction.  Grady Harp, February 2005	2005-02-04
368031:US	52496677	R21DMYY7YHFW6C	0595335772	184887545	Small Matters: A Year in Writing	Books	5	2	2	N	N	And 'Matters' is a Verb as well as a Noun	From the photograph on the cover of this important little book - a small child standing by his RadioFlyer reaching for a California orange on his backyard tree - to the collection of weekly newspaper columns to the final musings of memoirs, author Joe Woodward enters an arena of writing that immediately thrusts him into the company of Mark Twain, Jack Smith, Susan Sontag and other names which will doubtless surface to other readers as they slowly enjoy the thoughts of a quiet Everyman.<br /><br />Joe Woodward (again, notice this is not a \\"Joseph\\" Woodward who addresses us) writes from his home in Claremont, California, words gleaned from a weekly column in the LA Times sectional newspaper for his area, about the kinds of issues that folks in the homier locations outside the city gates of the megapolis of Los Angeles face and incorporate into their modus operandi of daily living. Woodward feeds the fires of public resentment about racial profiling accusations of the protectors of the city, about the noise from the freeway that burrows into the calm sought in the periphery of the city, allows his own emotions to surface and share about the extended super market strike that affected both workers and shoppers alike.  These things may sound like 'small matters' in the milieu of Iraq and tsunami and train derailments/drive-by shootings/suicide bombers etc.  But if you read his core responses carefully, you will find that Woodward uses these 'minor issues' of his columns to carefully mold his readers' thoughts as to what things in our lives are important.  These issues, while not equal to the major events internationally, these issues do 'matter': these issues reflect how the individual relates to his immediate environment and that immediacy that shapes global coexistence.<br /><br />Alert!  This is not just a series of crises that afflict one suburban location: for every bit of anger or sadness there is a partner celebration of the little things (other small matters) that make life joyous. Woodward knows how to celebrate as well as how to tackle human foibles and corporate emulsification. To this reader he uses his Claremont focus as a microcosm: lift your eyes from the pages and glance over the newspaper and the metaphors become obvious.<br /><br />Small towns, whether isolated in the prairies of the great Midwest or conjoined with the panoply of suburbia around great cities with increasingly ill-defined cores, are special places quiet enough and walkable enough to know neighbors, care about personal tragedies down the block, support grassroots revolutions against loss of schools or community grocery gatherings or parks or peaceful air.  And like the other writers who have this Norman Rockwell way with words, Joe Woodward proves in this little matter of a book that he is a man of sound gifts as a writer, an observer, an entertainer, and a pickle barrel philosopher.  This is a 'first book' that pleads for subsequent writings.  Highly recommended reading. Grady Harp, January 2005ous. Woodward knows how to celebrate as well as how to tackle human foibles and corporate emulsification. To this reader he uses his Claremont focus as a microcosm: lift your eyes from the pages and glance over the newspaper and the metaphors become obvious.      Small towns, whether isolated in the prairies of the great Midwest or conjoined with the panoply of suburbia around great cities with increasingly ill-defined cores, are special places quiet enough and walkable enough to know neighbors, care about personal tragedies down the block, support grassroots revolutions against loss of schools or community grocery gatherings or parks or peaceful air.  And like the other writers who have this Norman Rockwell way with words, Joe Woodward proves in this little matter of a book that he is a man of sound gifts as a writer, an observer, an entertainer, and a pickle barrel philosopher.  This is a 'first book' that pleads for subsequent writings.  Highly recommended reading. Grady Harp, January 2005	2005-01-30
369907:US	52496677	R16U2P7Y8010W5	1582342113	306204897	The Heart is Deceitful Above All Things	Books	4	6	14	N	Y	Notable Footprints, but where do they lead?	JT LeRoy is a phenomenon, a writer who began putting words to paper at the impressionable age of sixteen and immediately shook the literary world with his raw style bathed in an understated honesty and vulnerability.  The impression left by this work and the prior novel SARAH was that a powerful new voice in literature had arrived, a novice compared to Jean Genet, Andre Gide, Hubert Selby, Jr. to name only a few.  Certainly LeRoy's style is indelibly his own and is shocking and powerful, but whether it is durable is a question that has yet to be answered.<br /><br />Reading THE HEART IS DECEITFUL ABOVE ALL THINGS  becomes an obsession - is all of this possible, this endless degradation of a young child, born to a 14-year-old Sarah, daughter of wretched bible pounding brutal parents, who has no home except for shanties and truck cabs and foster homes and other dumps in which he is forced to endure physical abuse, drugs, rape, and cross-dressing to appease his mother's ever-changing tally of male lovers?  Is this diary of the underbelly of society sustainable?<br /><br />Whether it is media manipulation or some degree of distortion of the truth makes little difference in deciding whether these stories are autobiographical.  LeRoy is clearly a fine writer able to make even the most appalling incidents of child abuse credible. Just when the reader begins to suffer form overkill of dastardly deeds, LeRoy digresses into some flights of poetic imagery that show this is not sensationalism per se.  He knows how to write, how to peel open dark arenas feared by many other writers, and at the same time maintain compassion for his narrator Jeremiah and even provide some insights into the boorishly mad behavior of his Sarah and her many boyfriends, and even his grandparents.  No pulp fiction this: this is narrative writing of high impact.<br /><br />Though this book is apparently 'stories', it reads like a novel, save for the finesse of the material that would join these stories with a thread that pulls us into the next story without merely the seductive  suction of the subject matter.  JT LeRoy's latest book is an art book HAROLD'S WAY that is in many ways a continuation of 'Jeremiah's' life, but at a later age.  Those of us who watch for new voices will await a full novel from JT LeRoy to see if there is more to this apparent talent than these early \\"All parade and no Circus\\" books.  I think there is. Grady Harp, January 2005ories with a thread that pulls us into the next story without merely the seductive  suction of the subject matter.  JT LeRoy's latest book is an art book HAROLD'S WAY that is in many ways a continuation of 'Jeremiah's' life, but at a later age.  Those of us who watch for new voices will await a full novel from JT LeRoy to see if there is more to this apparent talent than these early \\"All parade and no Circus\\" books.  I think there is. Grady Harp, January 2005	2005-01-28
372329:US	52496677	R2RVH5GO0DO63Y	1591134935	760253015	SIX HOURS PAST THURSDAY	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Finely Honed Examination of Maelstrom of the 60s	Jack Payne understands the dollar, has professional experience in dealing with it, in understanding the mythology of it, has observed the volcanic eruption of obsession with it.  This kind of insider's knowledge, when coupled with the ability to write terse imagery and pull exaggerated characters out of a seemingly endless barrage of imagination, places Payne in a fully loaded position to deliver a gripping and harshly brutal novel out of that peculiar period of time from 1966 to 1968 that changed our world indelibly.<br /><br />SIX HOURS PAST THURSDAY pummels us along the journey of the transformation of a character - Steve Draves - whose double life (the 1966 standard of married man with kids and wife enjoying a successful climb up the ladder of success versus the deceptive lothario who would cheat anyone at anything if he ended up on top) leads him to the Don Juanian end.  This story makes big time crime understandable, adultery seem mild, greed and lust seem almost pass&eacute;, and the insatiable desires of a man obsessed with his own delusions feel like someone we know.<br /><br />Payne writes very well. His use of blending sentence fragments and extended flow of thought adds to the pounding rhythm of a story that the fact that we don't like the main character an incidental finding in the manner in which this story seduces and unfolds at breakneck speed.<br /><br />Many of his secondary characters are well fleshed out and identifiable as they intersect in Draves self-forged path toward destruction.  But the more important aspect of what Payne has done in writing this novel is make us all take a closer look at what was happening in our lives, and what has happened TO our lives, since that fission that occurred between 1966 and 1968.  And that is an aspect of any book, let alone a first novel, that signals the arrival of a writer of distinction.  One hopes that next time around the main character, here the  'Don Juan' of the bedroom and the moneybags, will be more a character about whom we can feel some empathy.  But then that may be another of Payne's intended points.....  Grady Harp, January 2005re a character about whom we can feel some empathy.  But then that may be another of Payne's intended points.....   Grady Harp, January 2005	2005-01-26
375084:US	52496677	R3OJR2KZXBAQYC	1893798283	611166122	Booby Trapped: Men Beware! The Dirty Seven Sisters: A Dating Guide for the 21st Century	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Were it not written by a woman, this book would be a scandal	BOOBY TRAPPED  is a 'self-help' book for men seeking mates and as such it outlines all of the types of women to avoid when men go a-hunting!  The author is June Marshall - yes, a woman telling all the ugly secrets of women to avoid - and she writes with such candor and wit AND clarity of intent that it is difficult to ignore her warnings.<br /><br />Marshall's message: don't let male sex drive override observation of female types that are bound to end in quashed relationships, whether those be legally married commitments or entrapment live-ins.  She describes the Dirty Seven Sisters' to avoid: the PMS (Perpetual Menstrual Shrew) Queen, Needee Nellie, Material Girl, Shopaholica, The Wedding Belle, The Mom, and Psychobabbler.  Each of these types to avoid she discusses in separate chapters, outlining the personality traits that make them venomous, the signs and symptoms of each type, and the reasons they do not make good partners.  She pushes the envelope a bit heavily by using celebrities to illustrate each of the Dirty Seven, and mentioning those in a review would rob the reader of some of the fun of discovery!<br /><br />June Marshall writes well and for some light entertainment, in addition to some sage and sound advice, this book is recommended for the predatory male and for those men who have made the judgment errors so comically exposed in this wry book.  Grady Harp, January 2005	2005-01-24
376350:US	52496677	R9FPLHNMA2FJH	158648303X	138356146	Auschwitz: A New History	Books	5	45	50	N	N	Definitve Book Unveils the  Horrid Significance of Auschwitz	Laurence Rees is a fine scholar and a fine writer and has the courage to present an historical summary of the one of the most horror-laden atrocities of the twentieth century - the Nazi camp called Auschwitz. Even the name conjures up loathing and nausea and near disbelief that such unimaginable mass killings, human medical experimentation, torture, and genocide could have possibly been real.  But without denying any of the truths well documented since the Nuremberg Trials, Rees explores the initial beginnings of the concepts for the camp and the events that lead the Third Reich to push this Polish town site into world memory.<br /><br />World War I laid the seeds for the rise of German resentment for the loss of a war they felt was turned against them.  At the core, in search for a causative factor, the Jews were perceived as the evil reason for Germany's losses.  Not that anti-Semitism was limited to Germany: Rees wisely shows that those feelings were fairly widespread throughout the world.  Yet it took the early fanatics that included Adolph Hitler to strive to purify Germany, rid the fatherland of the useless consumers of food that robbed the Germans of their rightful needs, and repatriate lost Germans to the fatherland at any cost.  Rees postulates (with excellent quotations from both Nazi perpetrators and concentration camp survivors throughout this book) that the primary goal of creating concentration camps such as Auschwitz was to provide way stations for gathering non-Germans for deportation to make room for the return of 'lebensraum' for those of pure German blood.<br /><br />The progress from these initial postulates to the eventual conversion of the concentration camps as places for extermination of not only Jews but also any 'outsiders' ending with the gassing and cremation of millions of human beings is the trail Rees outlines for the reader. He also uses his hundreds of interviews with camp survivors to explore the inner workings of the camps, from the hierarchy of the Capos, the survival techniques, the trading issues with the Poles outside the camps, the brothels within the camps that serviced not only the Guards but also the inmates, and the day to day mechanisms of progressive annihilation of the inmates.<br /><br />This book is not easy reading: the approach is scholarly yet fascinating and the subject matter can induce waves of nausea in even the most iron-willed reader.  But the book is terribly important.  If our response to the Nazi genocide camps is only one-sided horror without the information as to how such camps evolved from first idea to ultimate tragedy, then we stand to see history repeat itself. We need only to look at Abu Ghraib, Sudan, and other contemporary mini-counterparts to see how feasible this line of thought is.  This is a very important book and recommended to everyone who cares about the human race.  Grady Harp, January 2005rom the hierarchy of the Capos, the survival techniques, the trading issues with the Poles outside the camps, the brothels within the camps that serviced not only the Guards but also the inmates, and the day to day mechanisms of progressive annihilation of the inmates.  <br /> <br />This book is not easy reading: the approach is scholarly yet fascinating and the subject matter can induce waves of nausea in even the most iron-willed reader.  But the book is terribly important.  If our response to the Nazi genocide camps is only one-sided horror without the information as to how such camps evolved from first idea to ultimate tragedy, then we stand to see history repeat itself. We need only to look at Abu Ghraib, Sudan, and other contemporary mini-counterparts to see how feasible this line of thought is.  This is a very important book and recommended to everyone who cares about the human race.  Grady Harp, January 2005	2005-01-23
381097:US	52496677	R3M0UDPZGR6OQH	0595318827	612917860	The Gift of Life	Books	3	1	1	N	N	'Rage, rage against the dying of the light..'	THE GIFT OF LIFE is clearly author Jean Lynch's  memoir to place in written form the tragedy of losing her 43-year-old  daughter Linda to the consequences of a genetic disorder that ultimately destroyed her lungs and caused her death.  Lynch is an RN who for years worked with fragile patients in hospital settings and it is this background that contributes to the harsh tenor of this short book of profound anger with the apparently hardened interns, physicians, nurses, and attendants who accompanied the last years of her daughter's life.<br /><br />Loss of a loved one, especially an offspring, is surely one of the most difficult trials to endure.  Couple that with the fact that the gene causing the death was transmitted to the child by the mother compounds the agony with guilt and being a part of the 'healing arts profession', knowing first hand that there are no absolutes in the art of medicine, makes this particular memoir understandably a rage not unlike that described by Dylan Thomas.<br /><br />Jean Lynch acknowledges all of these facts in the preface to the book and bravely proceeds to publish this purge intact, knowing and now understanding her anger.  Her stated purposes in writing THE GIFT OF LIFE are 1) to acquaint the public with the rare disorder of Alpha 1 Antitrypsin Deficiency (a genetically inherited inability to produce a substance that protects the lungs from the ill effects of white blood cells against the microanatomy of lung tissue, resulting in the slow deterioration of the lungs and an entity that could be easily diagnosed if only physicians tested for it early on in patients with pulmonary problems); 2) to encourage her readers to sign up as organ donors for transplants; 3) to bring discussion about the Hospice Program that is little known, understood, and at times misused.<br /><br />The book details the special quality of Lynch's daughter, her life and strength of character in facing a terminal illness, the delayed diagnosis, the coldness of the medical profession, the trauma (and some praise) for the organ transplant program (lung transplants remain rather infrequent), and the gradual dying process and the fears and terror associated with the responses and responsibilities of Hospice nurses, physicians, and family. The closure conflicts that accompany death provide the final chapter of this straightforward document and Lynch does indeed accomplish the missions of her original intentions.<br /><br />There is a fine line between sharing personal experiences as a purge for a writer and creating a written work that is more universal in perspective, one that becomes less a diatribe of unique issues and more a common ground that allows the reader to identify and personalize in order go beyond reportage.  Perhaps allowing more time to elapse before putting a memoir such as this into publication would have given more perspective to being more healing in nature instead of the rage, which while no one could deny the validity of such response especially from an RN, seems just a bit too external rather than internalized philosophy.  This book is definitely informative and to that end it deserves reader attention.  The more that is said and written about the full cycle of life, whether natural or interrupted, the better the understanding for each of us as to the gift that truly is life.  Grady Harp, January 2005ness of the medical profession, the trauma (and some praise) for the organ transplant program (lung transplants remain rather infrequent), and the gradual dying process and the fears and terror associated with the responses and responsibilities of Hospice nurses, physicians, and family. The closure conflicts that accompany death provide the final chapter of this straightforward document and Lynch does indeed accomplish the missions of her original intentions. <br /> <br />There is a fine line between sharing personal experiences as a purge for a writer and creating a written work that is more universal in perspective, one that becomes less a diatribe of unique issues and more a common ground that allows the reader to identify and personalize in order go beyond reportage.  Perhaps allowing more time to elapse before putting a memoir such as this into publication would have given more perspective to being more healing in nature instead of the rage, which while no one could deny the validity of such response especially from an RN, seems just a bit too external rather than internalized philosophy.  This book is definitely informative and to that end it deserves reader attention.  The more that is said and written about the full cycle of life, whether natural or interrupted, the better the understanding for each of us as to the gift that truly is life.  Grady Harp, January 2005  <br />	2005-01-19
383181:US	52496677	R3OSDR29RZJ1FC	1932124268	588213007	The Meeting of Anni Adams: The Butterfly of Luxembourg	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An Author in Awe	THE MEETING OF ANNI ADAMS: THE BUTTERFLY OF LUXEMBOURG is a beautiful tribute to a lady who obviously has made a profound impression on one Lonnie D. Story, the author.  This is the sort of biographical reportage that is penned by a long-term friend or relative of the subject of the story. Not so in this case: Lonnie Story met Anni Adams in 2003, just a year before the publication of this homage, and while that may seem insufficient time to reflect the power this woman's life story, it also gives evidence of the impact of lives crossing at the right moment.<br /><br />Anni Adams survived the Nazi occupation of her native Luxembourg, maintaining her sanity and sanctity through that occupation chiefly through her religious faith, and became one of the numerous war brides that entered America seeking the American dream after Europe had been so profoundly scarred by World War II.  The adjustment to her new homeland and the impact of her naturalization on the people with whom she has come into contact serves as the basis for this story of the indomitable human spirit.  It is a story worth telling and a warm reading experience.<br /><br />Lonnie Story writes well for a first outing.  He seems to have an eye for the path a story must take and certainly pauses frequently enough for descriptions of mood and place and nature that indicate there is a poet within.  Some readers may become fatigued by all of the biblical quotations and introduction of religious layering that weighs down the narrative. And at some point the use of the metaphor of Anni Adams as a butterfly unfolding from the 'cocoon' (when in fact MOTHS are housed in cocoons while butterflies would unfold from a chrysalis!) becomes so redundant as to be intrusive.  Also, in subsequent books Lonnie Story may realize it is unnecessary to talk down to the reader by providing parenthetical pronunciation guides to names and words: such devices tend to move the book into the textbook arena.<br /><br />But despite these 'writing flaws', this book is a well-paced, interesting, docudrama approach to the life a woman each of us would love to know.  It is indeed a writer's tribute to a muse of heart and soul.  Grady Harp, January 2005ok is a well-paced, interesting, docudrama approach to the life a woman each of us would love to know.  It is indeed a writer's tribute to a muse of heart and soul.  Grady Harp, January 2005	2005-01-18
384592:US	52496677	RFPD9F2X1E1BW	0595329179	193464535	Waiting for the World to End	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Gifted Writer and the afterburn of Personal Agendas	WAITING FOR THE WORLD TO END  is an exceptionally fine first novel by Nicole Hunter.  She writes beautifully, creates atmospheres for the locations of her story that are palpable, paints characters so completely that they become visual, and spins a tale of love and life that is simple and direct in manner while complex in detail.  She comes to this first novel well schooled and with the added currency of a devotion to her craft: she is the founder of Literacy Through Literature and when not writing, she volunteers as an adult literacy tutor with Project: LEARN in her home in Cleveland, Ohio. She is thoroughly grounded in poetry, philosophy, the great debate over the Right to Life, even the ins and outs of the game of basketball! All of this information serves as an introduction to an important new voice, but it also poses the conundrum of why this first novel doesn't become 'great'.<br /><br />But first the story:  Thomas Olsen is a 41 year old English and Literature teacher AND winning basketball coach at Indian River High School in Indiana, a man loved by his students, their parents, his fellow teachers, his team,  even is elderly neighbor Mr. McCormick who shares Olsen's sense of isolationism in a world busy with 'success'.  Olsen's life has been one of aching to find meaning and love: his parents were distant and cold, and he continues to live in the regret of agreeing to the abortion of his high school sweetheart's pregnancy, a deed which has prevented him from finding a life partner.  Olsen is particularly drawn to one of his top students and players, Ben Wendling, who represents everything Olsen would want in the son he never had and whose mother Mary touches his longing for love but remains a married woman inaccessible to him.  A near fatal sports accident occurs and Olsen saves Ben's life, bonding him tightly to Ben's family and to Ben. Events occur and Ben goes to Tucson, AZ on a full college scholarship and serendipitously  Olsen accepts a new job at the same university as JV coach.<br /><br />Time passes, circumstances change, and when climactic events occur back in Indian River, Olsen returns to be in Ben's wedding and to discover facts that bring Olsen to major decisions about his own life choices and changes. It is to Hunter's credit that she treats her readers with great intelligence and does not stoop to romance pulp fiction happy endings.  She seems to understand the cycle of life and the consequences of choices and plays these to sensitive conclusions instead of pie-in-the-sky soap opera.<br /><br />Having said all of that, the one thing  for this reader that keeps this novel from entering the pantheon of great books is the author's tendency toward the evangelical religious convincing that she places in the mouths of not only the clergy, but also in Mary and in the important character Ben.  For example, the following is well written, but...\\"It doesn't matter what happened before...and it doesn't matter what happens later. God gave us free will.  Whatever happens, you don't have to fight it - you can just keep writing your own story, your own way, no matter what's going on around you. And it's never too late; you must just make your life exactly what you want it to be, starting today.  Like mom says - Begin; the rest is easy.\\"  Too frequently the answers to questions raised by the author are attributed to God's will, and while there is validity in this response, it seems to prevent further fleshing out of story challenges.<br /><br />But that is only a small point of contention that for this reviewer withholds a star in this otherwise five star book.  Hunter is so fine a writer that her future success seems assured.  One last point about the publisher:  the cover of this book is a rather odd, unflattering photograph of what appears to be a young lad putting the shot, an act that has nothing to do with the story and suggests that the contents between this distracting cover may be dealing with physically or mentally challenged children, which it most certainly is not.  Small promotional glitches such as this may serve to prevent eager book shoppers from approaching this novel for the fine work that it is.  Grady Harp, January 2005cally or mentally challenged children, which it most certainly is not.  Small promotional glitches such as this may serve to prevent eager book shoppers from approaching this novel for the fine work that it is.  Grady Harp, January 2005	2005-01-17
385172:US	52496677	RLRDHV37IAYMM	0974575038	148349185	Goodbye Gutenberg: How a Bronx Teacher Defied 500 Years of Tradition and Launched an Astonishing Renaissance (Designer Writers)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	'Much madness is divinest sense to a discerning eye'	This hallowed quotation from the penulitmately creative writings of Emily Dickinson succinctly describes the passionate volume GOODBYE GUTENBERG: HELLO TO A NEW GENERATION OF READERS AND WRITERS, a zealot's call to revolution in creating books of significance for the 21st Century by the enormously gifted Valerie Kirschenbaum. Armed with a background armour of teaching students in midcity Bayard Rustin High School for Humanities in Manhattan, having struggled with the youthful products of the visual generation influenced by television, video games, music videos, wildly mad animation feature films - Kirschenbaum came upon the idea that kids got bored with the written word, the blocks of black and white monotonous words that failed to generate not only their attention but also their hunger to learn.<br /><br />Valerie Kirschenbaum has created a book of enormous visual beauty matched only by the scholarly investigation of her premise that Gutenberg's invention of the press may well have made books more readily available through mass production, but the advent of the mechanical press all but destroyed the magical magnificence of illuminated manuscripts that are now relegated to museums. Kirschenbaum proposes the idea of utilizing our most sophisticated technology now widely available to everyone - the Computer with all of its abilities to extract creativity from the person at the keyboard - to make books in color, employ design, assimilate art, import images and treasures from the past, all with the endpoint of energizing students of all ages to rediscover the joy of reading.<br /><br />Spend many hours with this fascinating book and find yourself not only completely absorbed in Kirschenbaum's 'novel' concept, but utterly mesmerized with the various areas of investigation she offers to support her discovery. Here, lavishly designed and richly colorful and cleverly written, are chapters addressing neuroscientific postulates about brain cell receptor sites that tie visual stimuli to emotional response, explorations of Egyptian and Mayan hieroglyphics, Greek and Roman scrolls, Sanskrit, Chinese, Islamic, and Hindu writings and visualizations of the Divine, analyses of fonts and the Male Domain of book production, the philosophies of Plato, Nietzsche, Descartes, Wittgenstein et al, the paintings of van Gogh, Rubens, Raphael, Michelangelo, the writings of Emily Dickinson, William Blake, Proust, Joyce, Dickens, and numerous other discoveries such as the life and art of Christine de Pisan!<br /><br />While it is obvious that Kirschenbaum has thoroughly researched the material for her book, she still manages to write in a manner so communicative, so warmly personal, yet so infectiously passionate that it is not possible to avoid falling under her spell! She is a consummate Teacher, a richly imaginative designer, and a compassionate human being. And if it sounds as though this description of GOODBYE GUTENBERG covers more territory than you can believe, then just explore this wondrous volume for yourself: there is far more here for your absorption and continued pleasure than the space of a review permits telling. Toward the end of her book (written by the way in her own designed elegant font!), she shares this: \\"My journey has been, I am sure, full of errors and omissions. But I hope that younger, more gifted souls will forgive them and see in my pages the seeds of a beautiful new future.\\" \\"..to write in the vernacular today is to choose not only the right words, but also the right colors and the right designs. Our vernacular is visual. Soon our books will be visual, too.<br /><br />\\"From the stance of one committed to the arts, this book is a revelation. Read it for the discovery itself, for the sheer beauty of design and content, for the product of a successful dreamer. This book will be around for a long time as an aid to teachers, readers and other disciples of Valerie Kirschenbaum! Grady Harptional response, explorations of Egyptian and Mayan hieroglyphics, Greek and Roman scrolls, Sanskrit, Chinese, Islamic, and Hindu writings and visualizations of the Divine, analyses of fonts and the Male Domain of book production, the philosophies of Plato, Nietzsche, Descartes, Wittgenstein et al, the paintings of van Gogh, Rubens, Raphael, Michelangelo, the writings of Emily Dickinson, William Blake, Proust, Joyce, Dickens, and numerous other discoveries such as the life and art of Christine de Pisan!    While it is obvious that Kirschenbaum has thoroughly researched the material for her book, she still manages to write in a manner so communicative, so warmly personal, yet so infectiously passionate that it is not possible to avoid falling under her spell! She is a consummate Teacher, a richly imaginative designer, and a compassionate human being. And if it sounds as though this description of GOODBYE GUTENBERG covers more territory than you can believe, then just explore this wondrous volume for yourself: there is far more here for your absorption and continued pleasure than the space of a review permits telling. Toward the end of her book (written by the way in her own designed elegant font!), she shares this: \\"My journey has been, I am sure, full of errors and omissions. But I hope that younger, more gifted souls will forgive them and see in my pages the seeds of a beautiful new future.\\" \\"..to write in the vernacular today is to choose not only the right words, but also the right colors and the right designs. Our vernacular is visual. Soon our books will be visual, too.    \\"From the stance of one committed to the arts, this book is a revelation. Read it for the discovery itself, for the sheer beauty of design and content, for the product of a successful dreamer. This book will be around for a long time as an aid to teachers, readers and other disciples of Valerie Kirschenbaum! Grady Harp	2005-01-16
385223:US	52496677	R2XGX96IWF1H1K	1400049350	362558610	Barefoot in Paris: Easy French Food You Can Make at Home	Books	5	5	7	N	N	More than a Cookbook - A Parisian Experience	Ina Garten knows how to win the hearts and stomachs of her readers.  True, this book is meant to be an informative path to French cuisine preparation, but it is so very much more.  Garten takes the reader on a stroll of Paris, not only showing where to buy the various foods and delicacies, but she also visits the flower shops and the vendors that color the streets of the City of Light.<br /><br />Her approach to recipes is not the usual dry 'shop here, buy this, do that, avoid this' method that can make French cooking appear a daunting task.  Instead, Garten seduces us into the secrets and pleasures of creating the foods she has had so beautifully photographed for this elegant volume.<br /><br />This fine book could easily serve as a guide to the tasty land of Paris, whether the reader cares about recipes or not.  There is much to glean from this warm little tour of France: the food is simply and deliciously additive.  Grady Harp, January 2005	2005-01-16
388133:US	52496677	R1GZUOSLLIXRX0	1570613168	188231237	Cass Turnbull's Guide to Pruning: What, When, Where, and How to Prune for a More Beautiful Garden	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Before biting the garden bullet, read this!	Cass Turnbull is to pruning and informed gardening today what Thalassa Cruso was to the 1970s and 80s - a botanical Julia Child whose depth of knowledge is matched only by her common sense and wit.<br /><br />In this inexpensive, indispensable book subtitled \\"What, When, Where & How to Prune for a More Beautiful Garden\\" Turnbull takes the no nonsense approach to both the inexperienced and highly skilled gardener, and with her straight forward writing explains in easy to understand terms how to make plants, bushes and trees look and feel their best.<br /><br />One could quibble with the paucity of illustrations, but that may just be part of Turnbulls' technique:  if you are serious about learning this art of pruning, then invest the time in the reading.  She has a profound respect for plants (she is the founder of PlantAmnesty based in Seattle) and encourages the fearful first-cutter to look, feel and tend to plants and their shaping needs like a caring surgeon.<br /><br />There are few dos and don'ts that Turnbull doesn't cover in this helpful manual.  And in the end she instructs us with such wry wit and goodwill that we feel we've communed with Mother Earth! Grady Harp, January 2005	2005-01-14
388728:US	52496677	R3UN7RHR3URRQF	0881926019	388524793	An Illustrated Guide to Maples (Illustrated Guides)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	The Connoisseurs Guide to the Maple Family	THE ILLUSTRATED GUIDE TO MAPLES is far more than the definitive book on all of the 250 species of this favorite tree for all seasons.  It stands solidly as an art book for environmentalists, arborists, and lovers of color photography.<br /><br />In his Introduction Antoine Le Hardy De Beaulieu presents a warmly written history of the maple trees, with special attention to the areas of the world where this ubiquitous genus appears.  Then follows a beautifully organized guide to each of the many species, with not only lush color photographs of the trees in the environment but also with close up views of specifics that assist the gardener in identifying each tree. Then at the end of this large volume considerable space is devoted to landscape placements of these magnificent trees that not only offer suggestions to planners, but also can be viewed as fine art photography.  Highly Recommended volume.  Grady Harp, January 2005	2005-01-13
388792:US	52496677	R3LHGCK57JOKBT	1420800191	723069400	Crude Bedfellows: How the Insiders Set-Up, Started and Finished a Bull Market Run in Crude Oil.	Books	4	2	3	N	N	If the shoe fits....Ouch!	CRUDE BEDFELLOWS is a short, terse, concise red flag warning about the ins and outs of the effect of the market on government - and vice versa.  Author Sean Hewitt is a commodities trader with in-depth experience in such pertinent areas as crude oil trading.  Given his perspective, this short novel about 'fictional people' is pungent and intelligent and educational while concurrently being a tale of intrigue that blows the lid off the hidden agendas of those who control the stock market and the Big Powers.<br /><br />The first portion of this book is a brief but very digestible and informative overview of how crude oil trades work, what they mean, how they influence political movements, and  how they wield such a mighty hand in today's oil dependent world.  Once Hewitt assures his readers that the basic tools of understanding the stock market are in hand, he develops a 'story' that sharply mimics current world conditions.  The driver of this fast-paced tale is the fact that the commodities market influences world government, that changes in the movement of crude oil prices actually determine subsequent political events.<br /><br />Though Hewitt provides a disclaimer as a preface to this book, it is readily apparent that what this fine author has to say is far more pertinent to conditions that the past four years have shown in the conflict and underpinnings of the relationships between Saudi Arabia and the Middle East and the US Government. This book is important food for thought, and invaluable guide to gaining insight into the commodities market, and in the end a very fine read!  Grady Harp, January 2005	2005-01-13
390805:US	52496677	R3DFGJQKCHJOC3	0867196149	592624280	Harold's End	Books	4	6	14	N	Y	An Accomplished Marriage of Text and Visuals	JT LeRoy is not an unknown entity; his SARAH and THE HEART IS DECEIIFUL ABOVE ALL THINGS have garnered not only international recognition but also a following not unlike the HARRY POTTER clan.  He writes about street life in an intelligent, engaging way, joining the pantheon of writers who are able to bring to light the seamy side of life and in doing so engage our empathy if not our sympathy.<br /><br />HAROLD'S END is a brief story about a group of kids addicted to heroin and the streets, each of whom has a pet (dog, snake, rat) over which they may shower the love and attention missing in their own lives.  All except Oliver, who not only has no pet, he has little direction beyond the next fix.  Enter Larry, a dweeby older guy who befriends the street kids and finds an attraction to Oliver in particular.  Offering him food and shelter, Larry soon gives Oliver a special gift - a snail in mesclun lettuce that Oliver names Harold.<br /><br />In the continuum of heroin daze and the relative comfort of Larry's home in the Castro, Oliver passes his days until Larry's particular sexual proclivities change the situation. Oliver goes along with Larry's bizarre requests only to find that Larry, once satisfied, has little use for Oliver.<br /><br />Back on the streets Oliver's primary drive is to protect Harold and to that end Oliver's obsession with his pet results in his undoing.<br /><br />Artist Cherry Hood has created exquisitely beautiful watercolor renderings of each of the main characters and their pets and in the design of the book, these full page watercolors are placed in such a way that they not only enhance the beauty of the book, they also bring LeRoy's lost children to life.  This is a very fine little art book as well as another good yarn from the pen of JT LeRoy.  Grady Harp, January 2005	2005-01-12
391276:US	52496677	R3I78UBSX08A7Y	0743497155	728706271	In Search of Pretty Young Black Men: A Novel	Books	5	1	4	N	N	An Stunning Novel by a Significant New Voice in Literature	Stanley Bennett Clay is one fine writer!  Not only does he have the ability to create an intensely fascinating story, he does so within an arena of Black culture that has neither been tapped or portrayed with such insight as in this revelation of a book seductively and successfully titled IN SEARCH OF PRETTY YOUNG BLACK MEN.  From the cover jacket art to the rollercoaster ending, this short novel is on fire with passion, lust, pansexuality, atmosphere, mystery and just plain superb interaction of story and technique that may just be the crowning example of 'new Black literature', while simultaneously standing strongly on its own as simply exquisite contemporary writing without the need of the sobriquet of 'Black literature'.<br /><br />Though woven like a fine loom of dazzling threads that ultimately bind together the lives of every character depicted in this story, the main character is one Pretty Young Black Man named Dorian Moore who lives among the wealthy Black community of the Baldwin Hills area of Los Angeles and makes the most of his inordinately perfect physical charms by providing sexual pleasure for both men and women. The setting is 1989 and for the first half of the book we see the exploits of Dorian through the eyes of a disillusioned housewife Maggie Lester-Allegro and her quartet of friends, one of whom is a 'Madame' who sets Dorian up with her clients (including Maggie), promising these rich ladies of the suburbs the perfect joys Dorian always delivers.  Maggie's husband Lamont Lester-Allegro is distant emotionally but provides Maggie with the accoutrements  of superficial happiness while tending to his own diverse needs elsewhere.  Events unfold revealing secrets and crimes that bind this section into a cohesive and fascinating series of twists and turns.<br /><br />The second half of the novel is devoted to Lamont Lester-Allegro<br /><br />and how his relationship to the proper family expectations governed by his powerful father contrast to his own inner life secrets: Lamont, too, has fallen under the spell of Dorian Moore. Again, Lamont's story takes as many twist and turns as Maggie's and while it is obvious that the common denominator of these life altering experiences is the ubiquitous Dorian Moore, the core of the story reveals just how compounded are the vagaries of fate.<br /><br />Clay's means of relating this tightly cohesive drama is the poetry that is his gift.  He is at once able to integrate the cultural idiosyncrasies of Black phraseology with this perspective of the moneyed Black community in a way that updates Faulkner and Baldwin.  He is able to write as through a woman's sensory perceptions as easily as he is able to describe the wholeness of the male sensory responses to both women and men.  If ever there was a writer who could define bisexuality, Clay is the man.  Here is some of the most erotic writing  available and its presence has poetic significance to drive this unique story to an unrivalled conclusion.  This is simply great story telling by a man with a secure future in literature.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, January 2005n inner life secrets: Lamont, too, has fallen under the spell of Dorian Moore. Again, Lamont's story takes as many twist and turns as Maggie's and while it is obvious that the common denominator of these life altering experiences is the ubiquitous Dorian Moore, the core of the story reveals just how compounded are the vagaries of fate. <br /> <br />Clay's means of relating this tightly cohesive drama is the poetry that is his gift.  He is at once able to integrate the cultural idiosyncrasies of Black phraseology with this perspective of the moneyed Black community in a way that updates Faulkner and Baldwin.  He is able to write as through a woman's sensory perceptions as easily as he is able to describe the wholeness of the male sensory responses to both women and men.  If ever there was a writer who could define bisexuality, Clay is the man.  Here is some of the most erotic writing  available and its presence has poetic significance to drive this unique story to an unrivalled conclusion.  This is simply great story telling by a man with a secure future in literature.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, January 2005 <br />	2005-01-12
392230:US	52496677	R14BV3R61FI7CY	1932586121	135681198	Crippled Dreams	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Fine Story Well Told by an Exciting New Author	CRIPPLED DREAMS is a short novel, easily read in an hour's time, which proves that the gift of writing absorbing tales can be even more important than the craftsmanship of producing a complex and polished tome.  David Rehak is a name to watch and though this book is my first exposure to his output, there is enough idea base here to merit exploration of his other novels and poetry.<br /><br />Placed in Abbeville, France in 1870, a time when the Prussian army is besieging France, this story begins with a young woman who is pregnant with her first child, alone because her husband is on the warfront, who is beaten and abused by the Prussian soldiers resulting in a slightly premature birth of her young son Alexandre.  As the child grows his parents realize he is crippled and surround him with love and caring.  In time another child Gustave is born and matures into a fully normal, handsome, athletic youth who easily captures the eye of the town beauty Marie-Anne.  From his wheelchair and bed Alexandre watches his altered life with sadness, then anger, and then rage against God for allowing him to be a cripple.  He becomes a recluse, only occasionally accompanying his mother to church to hear the words of the priest attempting to reconcile each individual's plight and sanctity of soul.<br /><br />Alexandre reaches his twenties and sees Gustave courting Mare-Anne, resorts to reading portions of the Bible that celebrate sensuality and other books that speak of sexual fulfillment until he finally resorts to visiting a brothel where he succeeds in finding satisfaction of his desires yet realizing sex without love is meaningless.  His brother loathes him, flaunts his physical acumen, and eventually announces his betrothal to Marie-Anne, the very person with whom Alexandre has also fallen in love! Tragedies occur, each one seeming to drive Alexandre further toward his nihilism, until he once again seeks the wisdom a priest and the purported comfort of the philosophy of religion.  Still fighting to understand his plight he has a powerful conversation with his mother over the his soul:  \\"Oh mother, how much longer do you plan on being drunk off the wine of self deception?  It's a cozy escape....You must realize that scientific positivism is the safest avenue of belief. All we know, all we ever hope to know about anything, is completely represented by observable phenomena and scientifically verified fact......Science does have its limits. I suppose you're right.  But so does religion.  I suppose the limits of science begin where religion begins, and the limits of religion begin where science begins...what if, perhaps, the truly profound answer lay outside of both science and religion?...I believe that God is an enigma whose existence can be proven no more than it can be disproven....mankind ...becomes disillusioned...He turns to art or literature, or friends, and the good things in life without which many of us would turn suicidal.\\"<br /><br />As the story winds down, the events that take place result in Alexandre's ultimate changes that prove to be the fine reason for writing this story.  One may quibble with the contemporary phraselogy and dialogue misplaced into the timeframe of the 1870s. One may find sections of this book to be a bit preachy, or of a religious zealot nature. One may long for more lingering on written descriptions of place, of characters, of atmospheres - all the things that grace fine writing.  But no one can deny that for an author this young, he has a fine talent for creating memorable people and stories.  I think his other skills will easily expand as he lengthens his stories into novels.  He is a refreshing talent.  Grady Harp, January, 2005Still fighting to understand his plight he has a powerful conversation with his mother over the his soul:  \\"Oh mother, how much longer do you plan on being drunk off the wine of self deception?  It's a cozy escape....You must realize that scientific positivism is the safest avenue of belief. All we know, all we ever hope to know about anything, is completely represented by observable phenomena and scientifically verified fact......Science does have its limits. I suppose you're right.  But so does religion.  I suppose the limits of science begin where religion begins, and the limits of religion begin where science begins...what if, perhaps, the truly profound answer lay outside of both science and religion?...I believe that God is an enigma whose existence can be proven no more than it can be disproven....mankind ...becomes disillusioned...He turns to art or literature, or friends, and the good things in life without which many of us would turn suicidal.\\"<br /><br />As the story winds down, the events that take place result in Alexandre's ultimate changes that prove to be the fine reason for writing this story.  One may quibble with the contemporary phraselogy and dialogue misplaced into the timeframe of the 1870s. One may find sections of this book to be a bit preachy, or of a religious zealot nature. One may long for more lingering on written descriptions of place, of characters, of atmospheres - all the things that grace fine writing.  But no one can deny that for an author this young, he has a fine talent for creating memorable people and stories.  I think his other skills will easily expand as he lengthens his stories into novels.  He is a refreshing talent.  Grady Harp, January, 2005	2005-01-11
395259:US	52496677	R2ZY7NKULURVGH	1400062500	585019467	The Egyptologist: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	'All that glisters is not Gold'	Arthur Phillips is a fine wordsmith and a gifted technical craftsman of the letters.  While nearly every page of his two novels (PRAGUE and now THE EGYPTOLOGIST) reinforce his skills as a writer, those same skills have a tendency to draw too much attention to themselves, leaving the story line of a novel at times tedious and taxing to read.  Yet, given these inherent 'flaws', THE EGYPTOLOGIST is an entertaining read, an acceptable mystery whose other face is comedic, and a serious commitment on the part of the reader to stay with him to the (seemingly interminable) end.<br /><br />The plot is well described on this site: suffice it to say that the story involves two versions of one Ralph Trilipush, an Egyptologist of questionable origins, who corresponds to his Boston 'sweetheart' (who just happens to be 1) the daughter of a wealthy entrepreneur subsidizing Trilipush's Egypt digs and 2) an opium addict), while concurrently a Private Investigator is exploring odd deaths and inheritance issues and is bent on unmasking Trilipush's credentials and identity.<br /><br />Subplots abound and tend to muddy the waters at times, but the bifurcation of the two-voiced narrative is ultimately worthwhile as we learn a lot about archeology, the fascination with Egyptian Pharaohs' tombs, and the universal preoccupation with immortality.<br /><br />While it is evident that Arthur Phillips is a gifted writer, at times it feels like the end does not justify the means.  It would be very informative to read a group of short stories by this young star and see if the story would become more primary in his focus. THE EGYPTOLOGIST makes demands on the reader, and if you are one who doesn't mind a bit of work, then this is a book for you.  Grady Harp, January 2005	2005-01-09
401334:US	52496677	R1F6QPK96SHNEE	0300102755	43139374	Painters of Reality: The Legacy of Leonardo and Caravaggio in Lombardy (Metropolitan Museum of Art Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	When a Catalogue Becomes More Then A Catalogue!	PAINTERS OF REALITY: THE LEGEND OF LEONARDO AND CARAVAGGIO IN LOMBARDY may have been design to accompany an exhibit by the same name in both Italy and in the United States, but the quality of this publication goes far beyond the usual museum catalogue into the realm of important art history books for the permanent library.<br /><br />Curator Andrea Bayer has assembled plentiful examples of the drawings of Leonardo and the paintings of not only Leonardo and Caravaggio along with painters less well known to the public such as Savoldo, Ceruti, Moroni and others, and in doing so she opens the windows of artistic light that resulted form the new vision of painting the real in the region of Lombardy.  Not only are the reproductions of the paintings and drawings of the highest caliber, the accompanying essays by Bayer, Mina Gregori, Martin Kemp, Linda Wolk-Simon, Enrico De Pascale, Giulio Bora, Mario Marubbi, Keith Christiansen, Laura Lanzeni, and Robert S. Miller are elegantly and resourcefully written and add tot he stature of this beautiful book.<br /><br />Even for those who feel they have sufficient material on this exciting time of painting will want to add this exemplary volume to their libraries. Highly Recommended for art lovers at every level.  Grady Harp. January 2004	2005-01-04
401431:US	52496677	RO8D2B4NZDD2G	0500542929	118766631	Anonymous: Enigmatic Images from Unknown Photographers	Books	5	16	16	N	N	"What, in short, makes a photograph good?"	The answer to the question posed by William Boyd, who with Robert Flynn Johnson has gathered and commented on this portfolio of fascinating photographs, lies between the covers of this enthralling book.  None of the photographers represented herein are known for their artistry: actually they are not known at all and hence the title. But the images in this book touch nearly every human emotion and do so all the more powerfully because their are 'incidental' glimpses at the human condition and the planet earth.<br /><br />Photographs of the footprints of love, birth, war, death, joy, celebration, fantasy, surrealism, faith - all are here among the 200 odd images that fill these pages.  Reading this volume is akin to revisiting childhood (both the good and the evil vantages) or rummaging around trunks of forgotten moments someone captured for posterity on film, moments that can bring chuckles as easily as gasps, memories that are both extremely personal and universally participatory.<br /><br />But as with all fine photographic volumes, viewing the images is far stronger in impact than lumpy words, especially comments from an isolated observer.  Read this book for the personal reasons that initiated these pictures and open your mind to the myriad experiences that constitute life.  Grady Harp, January 2004	2005-01-04
401764:US	52496677	R15TZF4ICPB4FM	0821228439	800270227	What Remains	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Ethereal Meditations on Mortality	WHAT REMAINS is an apt title to this extraordinary photographic portfolio by the sensitive, ever inquisitive, gentle spirit of Sally Mann.  Though often criticized for her 'audacity' of material she elects to photograph, Mann is never less than creative and challenging.<br /><br />This well designed book is divided into sections that explore life and especially death in its many guises - accidental, violent, natural - and the remains of the deed, matter with which we the living must deal.  There is the death of a family greyhound shown with grief and simplicity, the violent death of a criminal killed on Mann's property and the gore of that event and aftermath, a series of views of dead bodies in a morgue, and dark landscape survey of Antietam (a battlefield fro the Civil War) that is haunting and all too reminiscent of ongoing battlefields we still create, and finally some views of her own children's faces.<br /><br />The camera techniques include ambrotypes and modes of developing that are both difficult and rewarding.  One is left with the impact of the fine line between life and death and that vacuum that exists when one becomes the other.  Some may find this particular portfolio difficult to see, but perhaps those people will gain the most from Sally Mann's meditations on life and death.  Grady Harp, January 2004	2005-01-04
401984:US	52496677	R16C0L9QAL5L18	0715319043	223016915	Five Thousand Days: Press Photography in a Changing World	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Dramatic View of the Past 14 Years by the British Press	Press photographers have long been the source of some of our most dramatic photography: simply pick up any newspaper any day and see the tragedy of the latest tsunami, the devastation of the war in Iraq, the coverage of the viscera of sports events, and more.<br /><br />The British Press is less scrutinized for public acceptance than is the American Press and the result is a closer, unedited view of world events that populate the pages of this enormously interesting book.  In his forward Harold Evans explains the differences between British and American photojournalists and invites the viewer to gasp and be prepared for some of the grisly events as well as to be exhilarated by some of the more joyous ones.<br /><br />FIVE THOUSAND DAYS: PRESS PHOTOGRAPHY IN A CHANGING WORLD covers the period from 1990 to 2004 - 14 years of events that justifies the content from the revolution in Prague to the winning of the Gold Cup. In this melange we see the battlefields of Chechnya strewn with corpses, devastated homes, soldiers on the front lines, terrorists from Moscow down to the Middle East - sites of suffering and misery that could never be staged except by war-driven means.  But just as quickly we are given many close-up views of British Royalty in both traditional and unsanitized form: there is a picture of Margaret Thatcher in garishly white makeup after the close of her regime!  Likewise the photojournalists have celebrated the masses of common folk in the stadiums of sport games, extraordinary in-action shots of the boundless energies of sportsmen at work/play, and even an extended look at the world of the Arts and Fashion.<br /><br />This is one of those books that intrigues the eye and the mind, for between these two covers exists a relative short period of time so full of events, casualties,  political upheavals, and celebrations that 14 years seems a lifetime.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, January 2005	2005-01-04
402120:US	52496677	R28O9Q64I46TK1	3865210260	392295443	Lost Angeles	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Mesmerizing Look at Los Angeles	At last someone has created a photographic portfolio that examines and celebrates the City of the Angels with all the fulfilled and aborted dreams of life in the golden spotlight that this city represents.  Paul Jasmin is a sensitive photographer and in these plentiful works in both luxurious color and soft duotones he has sought and found youths in search of the rainbow, capturing them in pensive hopeful moments and private sad stances as the pot of gold either absorbs or eludes them.<br /><br />Jasmin's settings are imaginative yet never contrived and the people he photographs are at once beautiful and intransigent.  Some are in Hollywoodesque costume while others are nude. No matter the pose, Jasmin retains a respect for the model and for the models' intact or bruised dreams.<br /><br />Opening the book are comments by Bruce Weber, one of the finest photographers of the male nude, and by Sofia Coppola, a sensitive director and `friend' to the hopeful vagrants and to Los Angeles as a city of dreams.  Together with Jasmin's photographs they have created a book that is a beautiful art piece as well as a gentle psychological reverie about Los Angeles.  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp	2005-01-04
405302:US	52496677	R30FU6PSSBPO2J	0312334583	609945884	Venice Sketchbook (Sketchbook Series)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	In Praise of Serenissima	Whether you have traveled to Venice and are already under its magnetic, elusive spell or whether you plan to visit...or even if your fantasy world includes bits of Serenissima, VENICE SKETCHBOOK is bound to please.<br /><br />Artist Fabrice Moireau travels Europe with his sketchpad, rendering quick sketches in watercolor that capture the light and moment as reflected by the architecture of the place.  This book is his prolonged visit to Venice and he has visited every island, canal, bridge, and hidden place that make this wonderfully decaying old Queen of the Adriatic a romantic paradise.  His sketches are beautifully executed, not always with scholarly perspective, but capturing the Venetian light, an amalgamation of sun, water, fog, and mist, like few others have in this medium.  Sensitive hand written notes on each page by the important 'models' make the sketches come even more alive.<br /><br />The book is graced by a fine Introduction by Deborah Howard who teaches architectural history at Cambridge and has written extensively about the architecture of Venice, Veneto, and the Italian Renaissance.  In her elegant writing she sets the mood for viewing the sketches with an abundant but concise discussion of the history of Venice.<br /><br />The book is divided into sections of the city and writer Tudy Sammartini, who lives and works in Venice, opens each sector with fascinating comments about the history of the buildings, the churches, the monuments, and all the sights that sector holds. Her background in the history of her beloved Venice enhances the value of this book beyond the simple coffee table picture book.  Her writing is warmly readable and very informed.<br /><br />Marry the contributions of these three talented people and the result is a book that is not only visually attractive and lovingly published on 'watercolor paper', but is also an informative and meditative volume of praise for the city known as Serenissima.  Grady Harp, January 2005	2005-01-01
405996:US	52496677	R3V5CMBS8MHRTC	1931788537	925038307	Fear This	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Photojournalism In Progress - An Astounding Book	Anthony Suau is a brave photographer who has won not only the Pulitzer Prize for his coverage of the famine in Ethiopia but also a prize for his coverage of the war in Chechnya.  Thus is it with credentials such as these that we are forced to pay close attention to this startling folio of black and white photographs of the response of Americans to the war in Iraq.  It is work such as this that may bring the country to seriously ponder the situation in Iraq that daily appears to darken into yet another war of error not unlike the Vietnam experience.<br /><br />The power of Suau's visual statement lies in the apparent simplicity of his extemporaneous views of the Americans' responses to the preemptive invasion of Iraq, its effects on the families of soldiers killed, the political outbursts of citizens in opposition to the war, the photographs transmitted from Iraq as seen in context of US newspapers and postings, the response to the capture of Saddam Hussein, etc. The photographs are as dark as is the cloud that hangs over this country in the wake of the war that should have never happened.<br /><br />This is photojournalism of the highest order.  FEAR THIS, succinctly stated, translates to \\"fear our stance\\", and without preaching or pamphleteering, Suau calls for an awakening of response to call an end to this war.  This is a very powerful book that hopefully will find wide audiences.  We all need to see this documentation.  Grady Harp	2004-12-31
406262:US	52496677	RHQLPSBD8USWZ	1888054840	174816675	Body Art: The Human Canvas - Ink and Steel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another Art Form Well Presented	One of the aspects of contemporary art that is most striking is the choice of matrix on which artists elect to create art: Goldsworthy us the earth's surface, the Christos wrap buildings, graffiti has been considered art since Basquait brought it to our attention in the 1980s, animal skins, streets, etc - the list is endless. In this very handsomely photographed book of richly colored images, authors Gary Lee Heard and David Culturra celebrated the ever-growing fad of tattoo and piercing as an art form n this country.  And in this volume not only is the art well documented, but the 'matrix' talks: the various models who posed for these fascinating photographs are given some space to comment on their motivations and beliefs in what they have chosen to do or have done to their bodies.<br /><br />Not that tattoo and piercing are new elements of body decoration: Heard is quick to demonstrate that many tribes of peoples other than whose whom he elects to photograph have been using these techniques as ritual adornment for centuries. But the point of the book is to display the at times extraordinarily beautiful compositions that use the human body as canvas, using the popular techniques available in every city of the USA.<br /><br />This is basically a picture book, but one that bears repeated viewing to absorb all the intricacies of the art of tattooing and piercing.  A valuable addition to the art library literature.  Grady Harp, December 2004	2004-12-31
406435:US	52496677	R1AMJ1BDSXHS1O	0810948052	977402952	At Ease: Navy Men of World War II	Books	5	21	25	N	N	And this is how tender Maleness can be	Without a doubt this book will touch the memories and hearts of everyone who pauses to slowly peruse these casual photographs of men at sea in World War II.  Without the overtones of trying to make a statement about the camaraderie that accompanies men off at war, these photographs simply follow a healthy group of sailors resting on board ship, working at their tasks, bonding in the bunk rooms and in play on the decks and the foc'sle.  There is an obvious physical relationship that is transmitted in the gentlest ways, further proof that men together find the emotional and physical support so needed in the time of isolation from the world.<br /><br />It is to Evan Bachner's credit that he shares this truly sensitive body of work with the public at a time when we all need to understand not only the plight of the men away at war today, but of the common threads of pansexuality that have never been a threat but only a solace in a world infected with prejudice.  Grady Harp, December 2004	2004-12-31
408544:US	52496677	R2FB0EW37MYDFB	081183252X	981946345	Cape Cod Stories: Tales from the Cape, Nantucket & Martha's Vineyard	Books	5	6	6	N	N	"On this fragile piece of land..."	Alice Hoffman has written an Introduction to this treasure chest of poems, diaries, stories, and musings about Cape Cod that makes the reader plunge into the many atmospheres and moods of this special place.  Her seduction proves worthy, for this collection of prose and poetry edited by John Miller and Tim Smith manages to uncover memories and a long history of this unique haven for artists.<br /><br />Cape Cod and its neighboring Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard have long been a place for writers to visit, to live, and to incorporate into some of the most important literature of this country.  Herman Melville writes about the oddities of the Nantucketer.  Among the writings is a Falmouth Whaling Log  from the early 1900s.  There are moments from the works of Henry David Thoreau, Edgar Allen Poe, Benjamin Franklin, Helen Keller, poems by Marge Piercy, Edna St. Vincent Millay, and Sylvia Plath, and fresh stories from Adam Gopnik, John Updike, Kurt Vonnegut, Norman Mailer, and Edmund Wilson - twenty five entries in all - that bring back memories for those who have had the special joy of Cape Light.<br /><br />This is a fine selection of quick reading stories that remind us how important (in its own quiet way) that this eastern most point of the United States has been - and continues to be: this fragile piece of land has inspired more beauty of words than almost any other idiosyncratic spot in the country.  Grady Harp, December 2004	2004-12-29
411266:US	52496677	R1UAMIS0L03WLK	067003178X	316403309	The Kitchen Boy: A Novel of the Last Tsar	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Mystery, Intrigue, and Fascination: End of the Romanovs	Few royal families in history have consistently been the focus of as much discussion, literature, stage plays, movies, and even music as the fall of the Romanovs - the end of the Tsars of Russia.  Not only is the period of Russian history fascinating because of the wealth of cultural information now known, but the fact that the fall of the Tsars was due to the influence of Lenin and the birth of the Bolsheviks and the subsequent rise of Communism through the Mighty Revolution to the fall of Communism as late as 1991.  The history of Mother Russia is at last celebrated in the great museums of St Petersburg - not the least of which possessions are the much traveled jewels that were the sole surviving evidence of the Romanovs after their brutal slaying in 1918.<br /><br />Robert Alexander has obviously spent extensive research into this period, uncovering documents of significance and achieving bits of detective work in a quest to explain the still unresolved questions about the July 18th slaying of the Romanov family. To our good fortune Alexander has elected to transform all  of his research  into one of the more fascinating of the many novels about those perilous times, and in doing so he has created a concise, immensely readable, short novel that breathes new life into Russian history.<br /><br />Told through the eyes of Leonka the Kitchen Boy, who was 14 years old (the same age as the Heir apparent Aleksei) and observed the night of the slaughter of Nicholas and Alexandra and their five children and few servants, THE KITCHEN BOY is a fresh look at an important event and its sequelae.  Leonka (now called Mischa as a very old and soon to die man living in America - the land of his refuge after the fall of the Romanovs) relates the inside story of the daily routines in the Ipatiev House (aka The House of Special Purpose), the final home in Siberia of the  royal family.  We learn the dynasty tradition and the errors made by Nicholas that lead to his fall, the Rasputin affair, and the idiosyncrasies of all the family members and their servants, forced to dwell in the heat of Siberia without the comforts of even ordinary people.  The story of the events leading up to and including the unbelievable slaughter of the members of this household and the subsequent multiple burials of their remains are all part of Mischa's story he is leaving on a tape for his sole survivor Kate, his grand daughter.  But the real reason for Mischa's final story on tape is to reveal the truth of what truly happened on the fateful July night in 1918 so that Kate might return the sequestered jewels of the Romanovs to Russia, assured that the Romanovs have been given a proper interment and that Communism has failed.<br /><br />Thought the entire story is written in such a way that makes putting this book down very difficult, the best is saved for the last few chapters where surprises abound and at least one explanation for all the intrigue associated with the fall of the Tsars is explained. To reveal the ending would be a disservice to the inquisitive reader, whether that reader be an avid Russian history scholar or simply a lover of mysteries and intrigue novels. There is much to learn in this compact book and much to enjoy as a fine read by a talented writer.  Grady Harp, December 2004utin affair, and the idiosyncrasies of all the family members and their servants, forced to dwell in the heat of Siberia without the comforts of even ordinary people.  The story of the events leading up to and including the unbelievable slaughter of the members of this household and the subsequent multiple burials of their remains are all part of Mischa's story he is leaving on a tape for his sole survivor Kate, his grand daughter.  But the real reason for Mischa's final story on tape is to reveal the truth of what truly happened on the fateful July night in 1918 so that Kate might return the sequestered jewels of the Romanovs to Russia, assured that the Romanovs have been given a proper interment and that Communism has failed. <br /> <br />Thought the entire story is written in such a way that makes putting this book down very difficult, the best is saved for the last few chapters where surprises abound and at least one explanation for all the intrigue associated with the fall of the Tsars is explained. To reveal the ending would be a disservice to the inquisitive reader, whether that reader be an avid Russian history scholar or simply a lover of mysteries and intrigue novels. There is much to learn in this compact book and much to enjoy as a fine read by a talented writer.  Grady Harp, December 2004	2004-12-27
415511:US	52496677	RGMDMXVGQ2XLO	0595205232	650293944	The Islander	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fact As Better Than Fiction	John Allen has taken a daring step in researching the diaries of a 19th century young woman, Maximilienne Carpentier, who washed ashore in 1877 on the coast of Denmark babbling utterances about an island, a woman named Emilie, and other bits of minutiae until she died soon after from exposure.  She had strapped to her body a diary that survived her long time at sea following a shipwreck and that diary was saved, most people thinking this strange young woman was simply mad.  It is much to the credit of John Allen and his wife that after extensive research into the details outlined in the diary that this fascinating story surfaces as a novel based on historic fact.<br /><br />\\"The present cannot be slave to the past, for then the future would rise up our master\\" Maximilienne Carpentier (1855 - 1877).<br /><br />And so begins the tale of the Carpentier family - mother Agathe, father Pierre and child Maximilienne - who were brought to an island by a shipping captain Claude Besson as a safe refuge for Pierre who had been imprisoned in France for stealing a jug of goat's milk for his infant daughter (shades of Les Miserables).  The three make the island a paradise of familial bliss until the death of the mother and the subsequent death of the father that leaves young Maximilienne to grow up knowing her father's history and yet determined to live alone on her island.  Captain Besson has continued to bring supplies to the Carpentiers and now comes ashore to meet Maximilienne and bring her the distressing news that she has enemies in the family in France who plot to take her home island.<br /><br />The remainder of this page-turner story is one of high intrigue with the arrival of the dreaded aunt Camille with her children Victor and Emilie. Maximilienne is forced to struggle for her life and in doing so she discovers the many dark and heinous secrets of the aunt and even of her supposed benefactor Captain Beeson.<br /><br />How this all works out is a spiraling mystery that proves that fact outdoes fiction anyday!  Were this novel just fiction it would probably fall into the pulp category, but with John Allen's adept writing we are transported to another era when family fortunes, class status, piracy, and munitions daring-do were de rigueur.  From a dairy of a young woman Allen has fashioned a fine novel that pleads for more information about his fascinating subject.  A fine read!  Grady Harp, December 2004hat proves that fact outdoes fiction anyday!  Were this novel just fiction it would probably fall into the pulp category, but with John Allen's adept writing we are transported to another era when family fortunes, class status, piracy, and munitions daring-do were de rigueur.  From a dairy of a young woman Allen has fashioned a fine novel that pleads for more information about his fascinating subject.  A fine read!  Grady Harp, December 2004	2004-12-22
417676:US	52496677	R2IQ3ETK4OCFR9	0679408525	35731960	Field Guide to the Night Sky (National Audubon Society Field Guides)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	'Out on the lawn I lie in bed...'	For those who remain spellbound by the canopy of night with all the beauty and mythology and mystery gazing at the stars brings to mind, this book is a godsend.  Without requiring previous courses in astronomy and without spending hours cross referencing words to match constellations to match positions to match meanings, this book comfortably and beautifully offers maps and photographs, essays and information that make looking heavenward all the more exciting.  The writing is accurate, updated, understandable to the novice, and makes a terrific companion to seeking answers and directions to the stars and the planets.  A valuable aide to your appreciation of the universe!  Grady Harp, December 2004	2004-12-20
417696:US	52496677	R8EJLH9O8GZ9N	0062700162	502276386	The Highly Selective Thesaurus for the Extraordinarily Literate (Highly Selective Reference)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Swimming your way out of word soup!	Though this little Thesaurus will never replace Roget's, it certainly is an entertaining and often surprisingly useful source for those who wish to test the limits of their vocabulary.<br /><br />Part jabberwocky and part expanded horizons, this easy to use reference is a particularly fine adjunct to those who are repeatedly asked to write essays on subjects nearly exhausted from prior attempts at creativity.  Poets, arts writers, and perky correspondents beware! There ARE more words out there to play with than even the grandest personal verbal sandbox!  A fun and useful book.  Grady Harp, December 2004	2004-12-20
421833:US	52496677	RMHL7CLLMPE0Z	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	5	11	12	N	N	An Astonishing, Soulful  Journey	THE KITE RUNNER, incredibly the 'first' novel by Khaled Hosseini, makes such an impact on the reader that the history of Afghanistan, the many characters of this tale, and an appreciation for the power of love, honor, tragedy, and the rendering of healing guilt for past commissions become an indelible part of our psyche.<br /><br />While this novel is the story of two devoted childhood friends separated by the caste of society (wealth vs servant), the setting is such that for the first time we are able to understand the changes that occurred from the 1970s when Afghanistan was under the  rule of the king, through Russian occupation, through the heinous rule of the Taliban, to the US entry into the brief war following 911.  But this is not primarily a history book: Housseini adroitly uses the cultural aura and the warring background to explore the relationship of the two boys - Amir and Hassan - whose lives are far more intertwined than either would have ever thought.<br /><br />As kite running happy children, boys who are in the rarefied atmosphere of imagination and dreams and camaraderie, an incident occurs that causes an abrupt schism and leads the cowardly Amir into a distancing from the needy Hassan, an act which eventually separates them as Amir and his wealthy father Baba move to the USA to escape the evils of the Taliban.  The guilt that controls Amir's life ultimately drives him back to Afghanistan where he is able to find redemption for his past deeds in a most miraculous way. In the author's words: \\"Life goes on, unmindful of beginning, end, crisis or catharsis, moving forward like a slow, dusty caravan.\\"  \\"I wondered if that was how forgiveness budded, not with the fanfare of epiphany, but with the pain gathering its things, packing up, and slipping away unannounced in the middle of the night.\\"<br /><br />Telling any more of this utterly charming and stunning novel would be a great disservice to new readers.  Suffice it to say that not only is Khaled Hosseini a gifted writer, writing in a style so simple and unfettered that it fits his narrator perfectly, he has written a book that acts as a magnet among readers: friends are gifting friends with this book after the impact of their experience between these covers.  There may be greater writers with more finely honed writing skills (Michael Cunningham, Colm Toibin, TC Boyle, E Annie Proulx, etc etc etc): there are few writers who have a equal ability to completely capture the attention, the mind, the heart, and the spirit as well as Khaled Hosseini.<br /><br />Recommendation: Read this book, honor your spirit, and then share it with those you love.  Grady Harp, December 2004Khaled Hosseini a gifted writer, writing in a style so simple and unfettered that it fits his narrator perfectly, he has written a book that acts as a magnet among readers: friends are gifting friends with this book after the impact of their experience between these covers.  There may be greater writers with more finely honed writing skills (Michael Cunningham, Colm Toibin, TC Boyle, E Annie Proulx, etc etc etc): there are few writers who have a equal ability to completely capture the attention, the mind, the heart, and the spirit as well as Khaled Hosseini.   <br /> <br />Recommendation: Read this book, honor your spirit, and then share it with those you love.  Grady Harp, December 2004	2004-12-16
424410:US	52496677	RODPBKHGHI89T	0810934957	903570147	Earth from Above	Books	5	1	1	N	N	WHERE PICTURES ARE WORTH FAR MORE THAN WORDS	EARTH FROM ABOVE is a massive tome that can be carefully read or just used as a beautifully constructed volume of aerial photographs by the French photographer Yann Arthus-Bertrand.  The overwhelming result of this volume is a statement that simply cannot be ignored: our planet is in danger from both natural causes and the hideous manipulations of insensitive man on his environment.<br /><br />Arthus-Bertrand shows aerial photographs of great beauty - as photographs (\\"There is beauty in the bellow of the blast!\\").  Forests, plains, oceans, rivers - all are examined along with the other surface areas of the earth to document dangerous evidence about our ignorance of ecology.  Though there are ample written sections to explain each of the photographs, in the end it is the visualization of those heretofore platitudes by the few committed to ecology that drive the message home to us all.<br /><br />This is a beautiful book: this is also a book that demands our attention to our planet.  A Fine addition to any library and a caring gift for friends and cohabitants of Earth.<br /><br />  Grady Harp, December 2004	2004-12-14
424539:US	52496677	RXW641P8HJJIG	0810944499	903570147	Earth From Above: 366 Days	Books	5	10	10	N	N	And for those who want a daily reminder....	EARTH FROM ABOVE, the important photographic portfolio with accompanying essays by Yann Arthus-Bertrand, has met with such a wide receptive audience that the publishers have created this small scale 'calendar book' EARTH FROM ABOVE: 366 DAYS which gives a photograph and essay on each of the works viewed in the larger tome on separate pages for each day of the year.  The message remains the same - and here it is one for daily contemplation: we are the caretakers of the planet Earth and these stunning visual reminders will hopefully alert us all to the importance of our guardianship.  A perfect gift, especially to the young ones on your list!  Grady Harp, December 2004	2004-12-14
426550:US	52496677	R1P3A284SL58NM	3865210155	997215353	A Portrait of Dorian Gray	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Skillful Diversion	Karl Lagerfeld finds other venues for his creative mind in this photomontage inspired by the Oscar Wilde story 'The Picture of Dorian Gray', and while there is nothing profound or earth shattering about this photographic foray, the book does hold its own as an art piece.<br /><br />Lagerfeld has selected some beautiful models, arranged them in progressively extroverted and erotic moods, while always pulling focus to the young beautiful central man who is his Dorian Gray. As in the story, Dorian doesn't age: Dorian's portrait ages. But the whiling (perhaps wasting?) away of the golden years of youth are captured with great finesse by Lagerfeld. About two thirds of the way through this pictorial monograph Dorian and a female model begin to age in front of our eyes until the death of youth is explored in the wasting and wrinkling that is the burden of old age.<br /><br />While there have been plays and movies drawn form Wilde's infamous adoration of everlasting youth, this use of the fashion camera has a real sting in that it comes from the mind of a man (and models) whose life depends on youthful appearances. That extra warning makes this book even more significant. Grady Harp, December 2004	2004-12-12
427330:US	52496677	R18OHKJLD7CC7Q	8248901211	260384608	Odd Nerdrum: Paintings, Sketches, and Drawings	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A Generous Bounty of the Self-Acclaimed King of Kitsch	Odd Nerdrum is a painter who polarizes viewers and critics.  This very beautifully designed and produced and written tome shows more than just an enormous amount of paintings by the Norwegian giant; this book contains one of the finest essays by Richard Vine about the artist and his place (or misplace!) in contemporary art.  It is provocative, haughty, seductive, and honest and as such gives a realistic picture of one of the enigmatic artists of today.<br /><br />Nerdrum decided early on that he wanted to paint in the fashion of the Renaissance painters and though he had formal training, he soon progressed to self-taught techniques to enter his world of artic terrains which harkens back to the beginning of man as the hunter, gatherer, and sexually obsessed monolith.<br /><br />The book is generously graphic, giving not only full page and two page spreads of the large works, but accompanying pages of details from these massive canvases.  Nerdrum's characters and scenes have changed little since his foray into the tundra landscapes populated by limbless warriors, infants, hermaphrodites, couples and choreographed folk who dance to Nerdrum earthy tunes.  The most recent works shown and discussed reveal a loosening of his brush technique but little else changing in the works of the past 25 years.<br /><br />The term 'kitsch' is usually used as a derogative adjective, but not so with Nerdrum.  He feels that most paintings today have nothing to do with gut level reality and it that sort of representation is 'kitsch', then he proclaims himself the king of kitsch.  Use that information as you will: critics are still debating the issue.  But no matter the titles or the content or the repetition of the themes, there is no denying that Nerdrum has become a household word in the art salons, and this fine monograph certainly justifies much  of the clan-like adoration he has gained.<br /><br />Grady Harp, December 2004	2004-12-11
427782:US	52496677	R2HJH2MS25HY5G	0810949571	887087907	Lisa Yuskavage: Small Paintings 1993-2004	Books	3	8	15	N	N	A Glimpse at the Seeds of the Mind of Lisa Yuskavage	For an Artist Monograph this book is very well done.  The reproductions of paintings are excellent and are the actual size of the small paintings.  The commentary by Tamara Jenkins is comfortably readable and informative.  The pros and cons of this volume are really dependent on your views of Lisa Yuskavage's art.<br /><br />Yuskavage paints cartoon like women with huge breasts, impossibly small waists, and googly eyes.  Her message is fairly clear: she is presenting the female figure as the sex symbol and mindless Barbie Doll which in any other artist's hands would have feminists up in arms.  But since these well-crafted but pungent tongue-in-cheek portraits are painted by a woman, that makes it all an insider's joke.<br /><br />Lisa Yuskavage and John Currin are the two most well known artists working in this Pop Movement distorted realism that pokes fun at the old Vargas girls and pinups.  That is working for them: they both sell their works well.  It is just that these works are one-note songs and they produce ennui after the first quick viewing.  This book at least lets us see the initial ideas of an artist who knows what she is doing - and making a lot of money doing it!  Grady Harp, December 2004	2004-12-11
433354:US	52496677	R82F5IVJKNLR0	1555950752	945859383	The Primacy of Touch: The Drawings of Peter Milton: A Catalogue Raisonne	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Master's Touch	Peter Milton has long been respected for his exquisite drawings and subsequent etchings for many years. This catalogue raisonne of his drawings offers fine evidence of why he is so widely respected.<br /><br />Milton draws in black and white, creating large scale images that are excruciatingly detailed n their realism, yet he goes beyond reality and suffuses his drawings with ethereal otherworldliness as though making dreams visual. Drawing with graphite on Mylar makes much of this impossible draughtsmanship possible, though his works on paper (and in his etchings) are equally as delicate.<br /><br />Milton works in series: 'Country Pieces', 'La Belles et la Bete', 'Interiors', and the incomprehensibly evocative and beautiful 'The Aspern Papers' based on the work of Henry James.For each of the series in this fine book, Milton offers his written thoughts and the book opens with a thoughtful introduction by Rosellen Brown.<br /><br />This book is a must for Milton admirers and for anyone who appreciates the gift of drawing. Highly recommended.<br /><br />Grady Harp	2004-12-06
434368:US	52496677	R2Y011AIBG5YY2	1859846165	90076623	Irish on the Inside: In Search of the Soul of Irish America	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Feisty Flag Waver Teaches Us Much About Ireland's Image	IRISH ON THE INSIDE is a fast-paced, entertaining and lucid look by long-time activist Tom Hayden at the history of the Irish immigrant image and the role of the Irish in American politics/business as well as an excellent survey of the seemingly unsolvable schism between Northern Ireland and the country of Ireland as a whole.<br /><br />Hayden is somewhat of a fanatic in his style of writing and that only adds a tasty morsel of Irish to the flavor!  He is out to challenge misconceptions of the Irish image (drunken, wild living, fighting, wife beating, lower class citizens) that is a welcome addition to the literature.  Though the numerous famous writers, playwrights, and poets from Ireland have tended to play up the Irish wild side, Hayden looks at history and fact and seeks to prove that though the Irish have definite life ties to their mother country no matter where they emigrate, their contribution to global welfare is a positive.<br /><br />Hayden spends a lot of this book giving us insight into the history of the longstanding political fighting in Northern Ireland and does so in a manner that is more illuminating than most essayists.  But it is Hayden's feisty commitment to restructuring the worldview of the Irish people that is the most heartwarming and entertaining aspects to this bubbly book. A worthy read, this, no matter what your previous opinions of Tom Hayden's own political career might be!	2004-12-05
437038:US	52496677	R1XRC1YJWX443W	0060737883	438090618	Singing Bird: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Ask no question for which you might not want the answer...	SINGING BIRD is lovely, singing novel by Roisin McAuley. A debut novel, this, though one would never guess that were it not for the jacket mini-biography.  McAuley has a grace with words, a gift for writing conversation that has few peers, and at the end of the day she is one fine storyteller!<br /><br />Here is a manner of writing that is fluid, conversational, terse, yet always incorporating mood and locale and atmosphere, all of which serve McAuley well in telling this story about seeking personal history/genetic identity/familial belonging.<br /><br />Briefly, we meet a happy British family unit, composed of Lena (herself an adopted child who never was bale to connect with her birth parents), Jack (her loving husband who spends much of his life on business trips), and Mary (the daughter adopted at birth from a home for wayward girls in Ireland).  When Lena receives a mysterious message from one Sister Monica, who ran the Catholic home offering Mary for adoption, wheels are set in motion that encourage Lena to attempt to discover the birth parents of her Mary - a love mission she was never able to accomplish for her own parents.<br /><br />Mary is a gifted young opera singer and has a life (somewhat secret) of her own. Circumstances collide when Mary calls from San Francisco Opera that she will be leaving her engagement for an important European tour with the Frankfort Symphony.  Lena, accompanied by her close friend Alma (finishing an affair with a married man), travel to Ireland for a holiday with the goal of hearing Mary in concert in Dublin, but with the true quest to search for Mary's birth parents.<br /><br />McAuley whips this intrigue into a complex puzzle of discoveries and their consequences - facts that her detective work uncovers feats and defeats and result in information about Lena's world that challenges her  belief system, her religious views, and her personal life.  Enough said: more hints would taint this finely wrought tale.<br /><br />McAuley has some of the powers of such varied authors as Agatha Christie, Alice Munro, E. Annie Proulx - to mention only a few who are well known for their ability to churn up exciting, suspenseful yet human tales.  One of the glories of this book is McAuley's ability to address contemporary issues that affect us all without a hint of preaching.  She creates characters (even her minor characters are well carved creatures) who are wholly credible, three dimensional, and pertinent to  the course of the complete tale.<br /><br />Roisin McAuley has the gift and from the seeds sewn here, it would appear there are many more fine stories in her beautifully tended garden just waiting for their moment to bloom.  Highly recommended.<br /><br />Grady Harphas some of the powers of such varied authors as Agatha Christie, Alice Munro, E. Annie Proulx - to mention only a few who are well known for their ability to churn up exciting, suspenseful yet human tales.  One of the glories of this book is McAuley's ability to address contemporary issues that affect us all without a hint of preaching.  She creates characters (even her minor characters are well carved creatures) who are wholly credible, three dimensional, and pertinent to  the course of the complete tale.<br /><br />Roisin McAuley has the gift and from the seeds sewn here, it would appear there are many more fine stories in her beautifully tended garden just waiting for their moment to bloom.  Highly recommended.<br /><br />Grady Harp	2004-12-02
438104:US	52496677	R37BEUAYT6YXRW	097080203X	587781895	Adam Raphael : Friends and Brothers	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Adam Raphael Is Becoming A Major Presence in Photography!	For those connoisseurs of fine photography who happened upon the refreshing work of Adam Raphael in his successful debut monograph FRIENDS, this new collection appropriately entitled FRIENDS & BROTHERS will come as no surprise.  Raphael's vision of the male form differs from those of better-known photographers:  he is more concerned with the vitality and natural beauty of his models than he is in creating dramatic, titillating portraits.  And as a result his images capture more of the essence of youth, of the radiance of the young males at their most fit moment in life, that elusive but eloquent Walt Whitman Presence.<br /><br />Working with primarily non- (or pre-!) professional models, Raphael avoids the practiced pose, opting for the transient moment of interaction both between groups of beautiful young men and between individuals and the photographer.  At times he captures technical virtuosity as in #83 Sven Florida where the whiteness of the undershirt appears almost otherworldly against the more natural tonality of flesh and leather ball.  In the opening portfolio #2 - 5 Brian & Gerard Florida, two men are at play on the beach in a captivating progressive motion of game that echoes Muybridge pioneering studies that have influenced artists for the past century. In #21 - 26 Justin, Sven & Curtis Florida and in # 61 - 63 Buddy & Paul Florida the joys and tenderness of male bonding is fresh and robust and never cloyingly sentimental. And as for sensual celebration of masculinity the closing portfolio of John New York is about as fine as it gets.<br /><br />Adam Raphael grows as an artist with each book and each exhibition: FRIENDS & BROTHERS is satisfying on every level for the ever-growing wide audience for appreciation of the fleeting joys of the male form at its zenith.<br /><br />Grady Harp	2004-12-01
442690:US	52496677	R11D0TJRO2Z4OX	1883573068	390675834	Art: Behind the Scenes: One Hundred Masters in and out of Their Studios	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Quality Survey of Art History for both Beginner and Scholar	Joan B. Altabe, art critic and art teacher, has written that little book about art history we've all been waiting for.  In one succinct volume, Altabe manages to cover Western art from the 14th to the 20th Century in a manner that is immediately accessible to all readers yet with enough added information that scholars of art history will find some enlightenment also!  No simple feat, this, as those who have consistently tried to digest the sociopolitical timeline with concomitant visual artists of each era.  What Altabe has produced is a key to the door of understanding how art of the Now came to be, and in the process she has painted in words some dazzlingly fine images!<br /><br />The book is divided into chapters designated as follows:<br /><br />1 - 14th, 15th Century: Renaissance - \\"Rather than heavenly harmony, the earthly variety became the lesson of the day....[artists] paid attention to the way people looked and felt.\\" (da Vinci, Ucello, Fra Filippo Lippi, Mantegna, Raphael, Michelangelo)<br /><br />2 - 16th Century: Mannerism - \\"Mannerists wanted their art to stand for the human condition of struggle and conflict, not perfect perspective and ideal proportions.\\" (Botticelli, Corregio, Pontormo, Romano)<br /><br />3 - 17th Century: Baroque - \\"Baroque artists piled on the emotion, heightening it, and making it more melodramatic. They took stagy lighting and theatrical gestures to the extreme.\\" (Carravaggio, Rubens, Ribera, Velasquez, Rembrandt)<br /><br />4 - 18th Century: Rococo - \\"Artists...weary of the Baroque style and its heavy, histrionic dramas, sought a less weighty look...fun and frivolity al fresco.\\" (Watteau, Tiepolo, Hogarth, Chardin)<br /><br />5 - 18th Century: Neo-Classicism - \\"...the end of frivolity and a return to order, simplicity, even austerity\\" ...accompanying the age of revolution.  (Sir Joshua Reynolds, Gainsborough, David, Ingres)<br /><br />6 - 19th Century: Impressionism - \\"artists...sought to liberate the French art by getting out of their studios and painting in the great outdoors...vivid strokes of color side by side...made Impressionist works appear more alive.\\" (Pissarro, Manet, Monet, Degas, Renoir)<br /><br />7 - 19th Century: Post-Impressionism - \\"imitation of nature is not the aim of painting...an artist's job is [not] to copy nature, but rather to evoke it, and make one feel it.\\" (Cezanne, Gauguin, van Gogh, Seurat, Matisse)<br /><br />8 - 19th - 20th Centuries; Expressionism - The unseen world and the way artists feel about what they see is Expressionism's disinguishing characteristic.\\"  (Klimt, Munch, Nolde, Schiele, Kokoscha, Kahlo, Bacon)<br /><br />9 - 20th Century: Surrealism - \\"freed images from their ususal association by placing the disparate side-by-side...flouting of logic created by a new reality.\\"  (Rousseau, Ernst, de Chirico, Chagall, Magritte, Dali)<br /><br />10 - 20th Century: Abstract Art - \\"aims to reflect that part of life beyond the observable, but which is no less real: the underworld of feeling.\\" (Kandinsky, Hofmann, Rothko, Malevich)<br /><br />Altabe's method is to briefly describe an era, then gives examples of artists of the time, discussing a bit of each artist's output coupled with Behind the Scenes quotes from historians such as Vasari et al and notes form the artists themselves which enhance the human aspect of each artist discussed.  This survey covers 100 artists and every reader will question some inclusions and some exclusions: that is of little concern to Altabe.  Her mission is clear - write about art history in a manner easily understandable, focusing on cogent facts, offering just enough subjective stance to make the information lively and propulsive.<br /><br />If there is one aspect that would make this very fine book even better, it would be to offer more visuals of the works Altabe describes in words so well. But then the book might sink in weight into the same category as those magnificent massive tomes and monographs that are more used aspictorial reference and entertainment than in learning.<br /><br />Altabe has given us what we all have been waiting for - a small book that makes the exploration of art and its place in history available on every level. This is a must-have book for students, collectors, historians, writers, critics, and for those who yearn for more understanding of the genius of making art!an in learning. <br /> <br />Altabe has given us what we all have been waiting for - a small book that makes the exploration of art and its place in history available on every level. This is a must-have book for students, collectors, historians, writers, critics, and for those who yearn for more understanding of the genius of making art!   <br /> <br />	2004-11-28
443188:US	52496677	R30OM6F926RG02	0670033448	9843603	The Inner Circle	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A Magnificent Obsession	TC Boyle is one of the finest storytellers around and his consistent output of never less than fascinating books ('Riven Rock', 'Drop City', 'A Friend of the Earth', 'The Road to Wellville', etc - 10 in all) establishes him as an appropriate novelistic biographer of the life work of Dr Alfred Kinsey.  Kinsey's enormously important contribution - THE KINSEY REPORT - to the edification of knowledge of human sexual behavior is well known, well documented, and now even 'playing in a theater near you'. So we have a running start in reading this book.<br /><br />TC Boyle capitalizes on our knowledge of the Sex Doctor to provide the matrix of this elegantly written, attention-consuming novel.  Yet in his typical style, Boyle uses fact to create fiction, and in doing so he focuses on the Inner Circle of those dedicated people who spent countless hours touring the country taking individual sexual histories from students, prostitutes, male hustlers, prisoners, known perverts, as well as 'respectable' upper and middle class men and women.<br /><br />Chief among these investigators is the young, naive, intrinsically wholesome, innocent John Milk.  By using Milk as the Kinsey-devoted and obsessed narrator Boyle allows us to understand the impact of Kinsey's revolutionary findings on the 'regular citizen'.  Opening with a Prologue dated August 25, 1956 and closing with an Epilogue dated August 27, 1956 (creating the time in which Milk is writing memoirs after Kinsey's death), John Milk takes us through the period from 1939 to 1953 when he grew to be Kinsey's first and primary assistant.  Milk describes not only the unraveling of Kinsey's work, but also the consequences of working with the obsessed biologist.  Milk, his new wife Iris, and his coworkers Corcoran and Ruttledge (with their wives) become increasingly involved in the secrets Kinsey uncovers to the point of participating in voyeurism, homosexual affairs with Kinsey, group sex, filmed sex, and wife swapping  - including sleeping in a planned manner with Kinsey's wife, Mac.<br /><br />It is this inner circle dynamic that makes THE INNER CIRCLE a fine novel fed by reality, woven by reportage and observation, and written in a flowing graceful manner that defies putting the book down.  The book is wisely divided into two parts - 'Biology Hall' (the beginnings of the controversial investigative stage of Kinsey's studies) and 'Wylie Hall' (the headquarters for the burgeoning success of Kinsey's first book on the male and the continued work on his second volume on the female). And that takes care of the scientific side of the story.<br /><br />The overriding theme of the book is a love story - primarily that between John Milk and his bright wife Iris, who struggles with the strains of her husband's obsession with his 'god' Kinsey and always attempts to keep her life with John grounded in love rather than solely in animal behavior.  We care about this couple and while we learn a lot about Kinsey (his physiognomy and infamous anatomy, obsessive compulsive behaviors, powers as a public speaker, and near hypnotizing methods of interviewing), he remains an emotional outsider at the end of the day.<br /><br />Boyle has succeeded in enlightening us, in entertaining us, in challenging us - and in achieving yet another fine novel to a career as one of our more important American writers.  Grady Harp, November 2004uding sleeping in a planned manner with Kinsey's wife, Mac. <br /> <br />It is this inner circle dynamic that makes THE INNER CIRCLE a fine novel fed by reality, woven by reportage and observation, and written in a flowing graceful manner that defies putting the book down.  The book is wisely divided into two parts - 'Biology Hall' (the beginnings of the controversial investigative stage of Kinsey's studies) and 'Wylie Hall' (the headquarters for the burgeoning success of Kinsey's first book on the male and the continued work on his second volume on the female). And that takes care of the scientific side of the story. <br /> <br />The overriding theme of the book is a love story - primarily that between John Milk and his bright wife Iris, who struggles with the strains of her husband's obsession with his 'god' Kinsey and always attempts to keep her life with John grounded in love rather than solely in animal behavior.  We care about this couple and while we learn a lot about Kinsey (his physiognomy and infamous anatomy, obsessive compulsive behaviors, powers as a public speaker, and near hypnotizing methods of interviewing), he remains an emotional outsider at the end of the day. <br /> <br />Boyle has succeeded in enlightening us, in entertaining us, in challenging us - and in achieving yet another fine novel to a career as one of our more important American writers.  Grady Harp, November 2004  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-11-27
450302:US	52496677	R187LXGCLBBVTB	6305398615	909145969	Penderecki:Credo	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Recent Penderecki Work Magnificently Performed	Kudos to Helmuth Rilling and his ongoing success with the Oregon Bach Festival.  This CD is the World Premiere performance and recording (1998) of the CREDO by Polish composer Krzysztof Penderecki, once the bad boy of avant garde composition in Europe.  Since eclipsed by Gorecki, Lutoslawski, et at this version of the Mass is strangely romantic and quite accessible.  Though one misses the originality and risks of his inimitable \\"St Luke Passion\\" and other works from his earlier years, this mighty Credo is a solid piece of workmanship that will hopefully gain more performances.<br /><br />The CREDO is divided into seven sections, all under the sole Credo portion of the traditional Mass.  But by dwelling on the 'I believe in one God...' Penderecki has been able to introduce a more universal appeal by using the usual Latin texts, Polish hymns, and German chorales.<br /><br />The sections are as follows: I. Credo in Unum Deum, II. Qui Propter Nos Homines, III. Et Incarnatus Est, IV. Crucifixus (the central and most extended portion), V. Et Resurrexit Tertia Die, VI. Et In Spiritum Sanctum (the most 'modern' of the movements), and VII. Et Vitam Venturi Saeculi.<br /><br />Penderecki's scoring is diverse, rich and satisfying both for the large orchestra and for the chorus, boy's choir and soloists. Rilling holds this work together magnificently and has graced this premiere and subsequent recording with exceptional soloists: Thomas Quasthoff (!), Marietta Simpson, Milagro Vargas, Juliane Banse, and Thomas Randle.  The overall effect is an emotional one and while this is rather tame Penderecki, there is enough creative risk to make it exciting!  Highly recommended.  Grady Harp, November 2004	2004-11-20
450308:US	52496677	R2X1I0J3Z87Z7I	158479125X	989244667	Dogs in Their Gardens	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Every Garden Deserves a Dog	Page Dickey is not one to favor animal types.  Known as an authority on gardens, she has selected gardens of homes across the country to photograph - gardens that just happen to be the homes of a wide variety of Dogs! (Her other similar book gives the position of honor to Cats). In this series of garden vistas Dickey focuses on a wide assortment of garden styles while keeping her photographer's eye attuned to the resident dog of each garden.  The combination of running commentary about the plants and trees, paths and resting places, with observations about how dogs can enhance a garden's atmosphere makes for a readable and visually delightful little book.  A fine gift for those who love either gardens, or dogs, or hopefully who love the combination!  Grady Harp, November 2004	2004-11-20
450465:US	52496677	R1ZQGQB4T636WE	1584791608	693184256	Cats in Their Gardens	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Gardens and their joys	Page Dickey has compiled a series of visits to gardens of various types and climes and demonstrates in this lovely little gentle book that not only does she know her horticulture, but also she has a fine photographer's eye for the quirky personalities of cats.  In a matter a few pages, Dickey acquaints us with the 'owner cats' of the various gardens and has captured whimsical and languorous moments in the lives of these felines blessed with gardens of great beauty.  Each garden (and cat!) visit is accompanied by editorial comments that range form humorous to informative to a bit cute.  This is one of those 'perfect gift' ideas for you and for friends who love their gardens and the feline guardians of the property.  The fact that this book is available in the best gardening stores speaks highly for Dickey's reputation among horticulturists!  A fine gift idea for the holidays.  Grady Harp, November 2004	2004-11-20
452311:US	52496677	R2YVULVTQYB517	0595318673	655494008	Dreamtime: A Collection of Short Stories	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A  Stroll Along The Filmy Line Between Fact and Fiction	Robert Steiner has gathered some of his finest short stories in DREAMLINE: A Collection of Short Stories and in doing so gives evidence of a very exciting new writer!  Although Steiner has spent his long and productive life in the sciences, he has apparently been observing the animas of the subjects of his investigation.  In this wholly enjoyable group of varied and inventive stories Steiner proves that his retirement years may just be the beginning of a separate and equally successful career!<br /><br />Each of these creative stories is written with simplicity of style, most being narrated in the first person format.  No puff or fluff of literary pretense here - just sound story weaving.  And as if that weren't sufficient to mark him as a writer to watch, each of these tales comes across as intimate sharings of the author's own experiences!<br /><br />Grouping these tales under the title DREAMLINE is wise, as these stories wander through realistic settings, opening doors into fantasy or science fiction, nightmares or dreams, and Steiner wisely leaves most of the conclusions to us.  He has the ability to spark controversy about politics, about prejudices, about the narrow thread that holds in balance in scales of sanity and insanity.  Twice his stories deal with 'reincarnation' or deja vu (we're never quite certain) when a character finds himself in a classroom with the appearance of such disparate characters as Rembrandt and Edgar Allen Poe.<br /><br />Perhaps the beauty of this work is enhanced by Steiner's years as a researcher and teacher in the fields of medical investigation.  Perhaps his imagination has been enriched by his travels in Europe, Asia and Latin America or his involvement with Amnesty International.  Whatever the source of his florid resources, he has used them well in an area of writing that this short book makes us eager for more.  Highly Recommended.  Grady Harp, November 2004.	2004-11-18
455158:US	52496677	R2ED85OVZPLR2N	0847826376	26318848	One Hundred & One Beautiful Small Towns in Italy (101 Beautiful Small Towns)	Books	5	74	78	N	Y	A Must for Devotees of Italy and Italian Culture	ONE HUNDRED AND ONE BEAUTIFUL SMALL TOWNS OF ITALY is a lavishly illustrated insider's look at the Italy as known to Italians. Writer Paolo Lazzarin took on this project of focusing on the secret treasures within Italy and wrote it for Italians.  Now Rizzoli has released it internationally and all of us who love this most romantic of countries are the richer for this guidebook.<br /><br />Lazzarin has divided his book into the multiple regions of Italy from the north to the south and shows us all the hidden small towns that are in the regions of the famous cities such as Venice, Milan, Florence, Siena, and Rome.  He is careful to acknowledge the influence of these cities we all know, but at the same time he graces each of the 101 towns with descriptions of the land the architecture, the artisans, the foods, and the special places that provide a strong magnet to the reader.<br /><br />Many of the towns names are familiar, but only because the names appear on cheeses, wines, olive oil, and trinkets!  Yet in this book the towns of Spoleto, San Gimignano, Arezzo, Gallipoli, Portofino, Gubbio, Ischia, Modena, Aosta and all the others come to life in warm prose and breathtaking photography.<br /><br />This special book is illuminating as a resource guide for the next voyage to Italia; it also is one of the more beautiful gift books for treasured friends and loved ones on the market today!  Grady Harp, November 2004.	2004-11-16
455394:US	52496677	R3AJ85S79QO459	1582345082	570121918	The Line of Beauty	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Accolades for the lines of beauty in The Line of Beauty!	Alan Hollinghurst has consistently written intelligent and sensual novels (\\"The Swimming Pool Library\\", \\"The Folding Star\\" and \\"The Spell\\") that have found a readership that crosses over from his initial audience of readers of Gay fiction to the audience of readers who simply appreciate fine literature.  And with THE LINE OF BEAUTY his merits have been rewarded not only by the acclaimed Booker Award, but also by a rather phenomenal presale demand.  Hollinghurst is simply one of the best of the current writers.<br /><br />THE LINE OF BEAUTY is more than a finely tuned story about class differences, the foibles of the wealthy and ruling class of England, the hypocrisy of the Thatcher era in the 1980s, the recognition of the media watch dogs gobbling rumors about the government and the concurrent homophobia /rise of AIDS/druggie culture as seen through the proscenium arch of London.  This book is very much a character study of one Nicholas Guest, a young middle class lad, graduate of Oxford, who (much like Ripley!) yearns for the luxuries of the wealthy and gentried such as Gerald and Rachel Fedden who live in a mansion in Notting Hill with their troubled (read 'speaks her mind') daughter Catherine and son Toby, the object of gay Nicholas' infatuation since their shared years at Oxford.<br /><br />The novel follows Nick's absorption into the Fedden family, being accepted as an aesthete, his first same sex affair with a handsome black clerk whom he encounters through a personal ad in the gay rag, his dalliances with the famous (including Margaret Thatcher herself), with a millionaire closeted playboy Wani who introduces him to drugs and more, and with creating a magazine with Wani which is the pinnacle of glossy aesthetics cum hoity toity.  The various characters in this 'rake's progress' remain threaded through this story until all of the misguided judgments and turns of fate crumble Nick's world of fantasy.<br /><br />Yet as if this strong and fascinating story weren't enough, it is Hollinghurst's intelligence and writing style that mesmerize. He has the ability to begin phases of his tale with peripheral information that causes the reader to wonder exactly where he is taking us: he creates a stage setting with scenery and props that must be in place before the first character speaks the lines that define so cogently where the author has arrived.  His quality of prose is exquisite both in describing the beauty seen and imagined and the 'squalor' intermittently encountered.  He fleshes out each of his characters with such skill that we feel inside their heads even before they speak their lines.<br /><br />If there is a flaw in this tome it is a minor one:  unless the reader is a thorough-going anglophile or has lived in some part of the UK, the various aspects of class distinction and governmental abbreviations require a bit of stalling to decipher.  But then what is reading all about, if not for pleasure and for edification?  THE LINE OF BEAUTY is a brilliant novel by a gifted writer and deserves the attention of everyone who loves great books.  Grady Harp, November 2004weren't enough, it is Hollinghurst's intelligence and writing style that mesmerize. He has the ability to begin phases of his tale with peripheral information that causes the reader to wonder exactly where he is taking us: he creates a stage setting with scenery and props that must be in place before the first character speaks the lines that define so cogently where the author has arrived.  His quality of prose is exquisite both in describing the beauty seen and imagined and the 'squalor' intermittently encountered.  He fleshes out each of his characters with such skill that we feel inside their heads even before they speak their lines. <br /> <br />If there is a flaw in this tome it is a minor one:  unless the reader is a thorough-going anglophile or has lived in some part of the UK, the various aspects of class distinction and governmental abbreviations require a bit of stalling to decipher.  But then what is reading all about, if not for pleasure and for edification?  THE LINE OF BEAUTY is a brilliant novel by a gifted writer and deserves the attention of everyone who loves great books.   Grady Harp, November 2004 <br /> <br />	2004-11-15
458022:US	52496677	RDM7OU0MEJH7X	6306441867	793953395	Schumann:Symphonies 1-4	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Worth searching for this set	THE COMPLETE SCHUMANN SYMPHONIES is a 2 CD set of the four symphonies of Schumann as performed by Christoph Eschenbach and the Bamberg Symphony. Few conductors can match Eschenbach's vision of these very special romantic symphonies and very few can elicit such cohesive performances from orchestras. Though the Bamberg Symphony lacks the sheen that is present in some of the other orchestras who have been guided by this fine conductor/pianist, until he inevitably re-records all four symphonies this set is certainly viable. Here is a conductor who scales his interpretations with obvious insight into the smaller more intimate song cycles of the composer and it is that virtue that marks him as one o the upper echelon of the 'new conductors'. Recommended. Grady Harp, November 2004	2004-11-12
458186:US	52496677	RYC9SAAGHMTJI	0792278380	354021888	Voices of War: Stories of Service from the Home Front and the Front Lines	Books	5	14	16	N	N	War and Americans Spanning a Century	VOICES OF WAR is the product of the Veterans History Project form the Library of Congress.  It is a book of letters, notes, memoirs, paintings, drawings, photographs, and other memorabilia from World War I through World War II through the Korean War through the Vietnam War to the Persian Gulf War.  The quality of paper is the highest obtainable for books, the photograph and art reproductions are superb, and the graphic layout of the letters and memos and interviews are excellent.  So as a book it ranks as an Art book.<br /><br />But that is only the superficial gloss that binds this body of thoughts that have survived a century of warfare.  Here are the responses of men and women who volunteered or were drafted, the families and sweethearts left on American soil to keep vigil for those who would return and those who would not.  Images of entertainers such as Bob Hope and Martha Raye and the countless others who brought some sense of credibility to the 'cause' worth fighting for are juxtaposed with photos of buddies, of backhome families, and with posters and paintings that accompanied those wars.<br /><br />The most impressive portion of this book is the interviews conducted by volunteers, young men and women who listened and recorded countless hours of reminiscences from veterans, nurses, families - the spectrum of those stamped with wars' tattoos. Some read as though script for Audie Murphy films: some read with hidden pain and permanent wounds like those of British poet Wilfrid Owen.<br /><br />And in the end this book simply bears witness to the horror of the history of WAR.  How timely for this book to arrive on the shelves when yet again we as a nation that should have learned from history are capturing more material for, unfortunately, another volume.  When will we learn?  Perhaps if everyone reads this excellent book, there may be hope.  Grady Harp, Veterans' Day 2004	2004-11-12
458945:US	52496677	R1SGKN6O45KB9U	6306552693	586202989	Complete Schumann Symphonies	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Worth searching for this set	THE COMPLETE SCHUMANN SYMPHONIES is a 2 CD set of the four symphonies of Schumann as performed by Christoph Eschenbach and the Bamberg Symphony.  Few conductors can match Eschenbach's vision of these very special romantic symphonies and very few can elicit such cohesive performances from orchestras.  Though the Bamberg Symphony lacks the sheen that is present in some of the other orchestras who have been guided by this fine conductor/pianist, until he inevitably re-records all four symphonies this set is certainly viable.  Here is a conductor who scales his interpretations  with obvious insight into the smaller more intimate song cycles of the composer and it is that virtue that marks him as one o the upper echelon of the 'new conductors'.  Recommended.  Grady Harp, November 2004	2004-11-12
463214:US	52496677	R1X8AKK1IU1G	1413743404	270849493	AZCARS SWEET HOPE: Her Story Continues	Books	5	2	3	N	N	And the story of Azucar grows richer and better	For all the numerous admirers of Alan Cambeira's exceptionally fine novel AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar ......... welcome to the next installment!  Authors who have the courage to carry the characters of their creation beyond the initial story often disappoint: the infectious energy of the initial book is difficult to sustain.  Not so with Alan Cambeira.  AZUCAR'S SWEET HOPE not only equals the success of its predecessor, it in many ways surpasses it.<br /><br />Cambeira's ability to create exotic imagery is obvious from the opening chapter in which he describes with extraordinary visual language the beauty of the Caribbean island on which his story is staged.  He also has the uncanny ability to write in a fashion that fills in all the details of his first book without the need for the reader to start with AZUCAR!  And in a story so rich in history, ethnic diversity, interweaving of four languages (English, French, Spanish, Creole), and complex genealogies, this is no simple task.  Yet each time another character enters the stage we are almost parenthetically brought up to date with a cogent history of that character's past and then interaction with the present story.  The fine-tuned storytelling ability of this fine author keeps the momentum going without confusion and always with compassion for the reader.<br /><br />But to the story.  Azucar is the child from the batey slums of the sugar plantation, abused by the squalor of living in filth, impregnated by the demon Mario with twins who are then ritually sacrificed, protected by a grandmother who is in close touch with the island spirits, spirits who accompany this gifted child throughout her life, and ultimately is rescued by Marcelo and his lover Harold and moves to Canada where she finds love and fulfillment with Lucien (another islander who escaped) and establishes a concept of tourism for her native island that she believes will bring an end to the hardship life of her childhood. All this happens in the first novel!<br /><br />Now, it is ten years later and Azucar and Lucien have returned to the island where they are enormously successful in establishing a luxurious tourist paradise based on the innate beauty of the Caribbean atmosphere.  But what was once an island of hardship for the populace of the poor workers, even though suffused with the new wealth and prosperity of the resorts, slowly is shown to have its own brand of caste system.  The various ethnic groups that populate the island are steeped in tradition and untrusting of Azucar's new role.  Old secrets surface, ritual murders take place, the long-standing bifurcation between the Haitian Blacks and the Spanish and French people plays into extraordinary factions, workers' strike, and the government is self-serving and greedy.<br /><br />In short, the solution to the evils of the sugar plantation business, replaced with the new tourism fantasy, shows evidence of seeds of the same worker discontent.  But in the course of the story we encounter all of the characters from the first novel embellished by the appearance of mature adults from the sugar plantation days who have grown into three-dimensional personas.<br /><br />The intrigue woven by Cambeira is so tensely written that it is next to impossible to put this book down once it is started!  To reveal the ending would be a disservice to the reader: suffice it to say that there likely (and hopefully) will be another installment to the endlessly fascinating story of Azucar!<br /><br />Cambeira is not only a superlative storyteller; he is also able to instill in his stories some universal morals that are never cloying, but very pungent. In the words of the old Don Anselmo, `All things are connected.  Men and women didn't leave the web of Life without taking a strand of that web with `em.  That's what makes us human...a person is a person through other persons; a person belongs to a greater whole and is diminished when others are diminished or treated as if they wasless who they are.\\"  And who can read AZUCAR\\"S SWEET HOPE and not relate to the plight of the undocumented workers throughout the world?<br /><br />To this reviewer, Cambeira's true gift as a writer is not only his ability to make a story rational and historically correct: his poetic language transports the reader to the exotic atmosphere with all of the perfumes, foods, folklore, spiritualism, melodies, and lyricism of the Caribbean better than anyone writing.  He certainly ranks high in the echelon of that realm of `magical realism' that too many of us thought was confined to Latin American writers' works.  Stepping into the pages of AZUCAR'S  SWEET HOPE is a move toward finding a paradise - if only for the moment of the book.  And that is much needed!  Alan Cambeira tells a fine story, fills it with wisdom, and in the end gives us all courage in the simple adoration of the concept of Hope.  Grady Harp, November 2004as if they was less who they are.\\"  And who can read AZUCAR\\"S SWEET HOPE and not relate to the plight of the undocumented workers throughout the world?   <br /> <br />To this reviewer, Cambeira's true gift as a writer is not only his ability to make a story rational and historically correct: his poetic language transports the reader to the exotic atmosphere with all of the perfumes, foods, folklore, spiritualism, melodies, and lyricism of the Caribbean better than anyone writing.  He certainly ranks high in the echelon of that realm of `magical realism' that too many of us thought was confined to Latin American writers' works.   Stepping into the pages of AZUCAR'S  SWEET HOPE is a move toward finding a paradise - if only for the moment of the book.  And that is much needed!   Alan Cambeira tells a fine story, fills it with wisdom, and in the end gives us all courage in the simple adoration of the concept of Hope.  Grady Harp, November 2004 <br />	2004-11-08
464923:US	52496677	R14WUGHJL45REK	0821227513	751013820	La Dolce Vita: Living in Italy	Books	4	24	24	N	N	O To Live In Italy!	Catherine Fairweather has honed her skills as a writer from her days as a contributing editor to House and Garden and here joins forces with photographer Mark Luscombe-Whyte to present a volume of life in Italy that not only makes for a beautiful and informative book, it makes the reader long for the pleasures of living in what surely is the world's most romantic country.<br /><br />Separated into chapters - Grand Style: classic villas and country estates; Bohemian Chic: rural and island retreats (Tuscany, Lazio, Puglia); Urban Elegance: city apartments and townhouses (Milan, Rome, Venice) - Fairweather enters private homes of the rich and famous and describes how the regions and the atmosphere dictate the home's ambience.  The photographs are gorgeous: full views of each home entered as well as separate views of rooms and bibelots, both inside the home and from the garden make us feel as though we have at least spent a full day in each location.<br /><br />For a coffee table tour of the places rarely seen in Italy, this book is as fine as they come.  Other volumes may offer more sophisticated history and cultural input, but Fairweather and Luscombe-Whyte take the personal approach - and that works very well!  Grady Harp, November 2004	2004-11-06
467659:US	52496677	R1Q9X2S7JCU9EL	1400042909	737768410	Villages	Books	5	56	62	N	N	The Life of Owen Mackenzie as an American History	John Updike has since the 1950s been the chronicler of the American mind.  His twenty-one novels, poems, short stories, and essays have examined the American Dream and its vagaries, the inner and outer lives of the men and women living through the 20th century, the dichotomy between classes, ethics, sexual maturation, big business, politics as seen from both sides of the fence - name it and Updike has explored it.  But John Updike also happens to be a gifted, eloquent wordsmith who can make small observations in a few words that become instantly branded on the brain as epiphanies.  Reading Updike is a complete pleasure.<br /><br />For those questioning whether this first man of letters has anything new to say, then VILLAGES is a must read.  By the literary means of separating chronological 'biography' with evenly interspersed chapters that pause to explore the sexuality of the main character (\\"Village Sex I - VI\\") Updike's writing is refreshing and affords a better scrutiny of the life of a man as influenced by his gradual sexual awakening, underlining how those basic needs alter his movement through the stages from childhood through adolescence through adulthood to old age.<br /><br />Owen Mackenzie was born during the Depression in Willow, Pennsylvania, (the first Village) a child of minimal means whose every discovery becomes a preparation for the Rake's Progress ahead.  His introduction to the glories of the female body are bumpily naive and it is this 'frozen adolescence' the propels him through a marriage to a fellow student Phyllis) at MIT whom he marries and has four children, and upon graduation moves to Middle Falls, Connecticut where he slowly becomes a guru in the nascent computer industry.  His various acts of adultery/affairs include a cornucopia of women of different types and values, and as his age and company and life in this village progress, he eventually must face his choices.  He finally divorces Phyllis and marries another odd type (Julia, recently divorced from the town minister) only to end up in a retirement 'village' of Haskells Crossing, Massachusetts.  A fairly simple story, and much in line with Updike's previous works.<br /><br />The joy of this book is in the asides addressing issues few authors face head-on.  \\"Capitalism...asks only one thing of us: that we consume. The stupider we are, the better consumers we are...You don't need to understand anything to watch television; they want you so stupid you keep staring at the commercials.\\"<br /><br />\\"A village is woven of secrets, of truths better left unstated, of houses with less window than opaque wall.\\"<br /><br />\\"Not for the rich the scattered wandering, the flight from ill-equipped nuclear family into America's wasteland of tawdry entertainments, of shopping-mall parking lots as large as lakes and seedy roadside bars advertising karaoke on Wednesday nights, of deserted downtowns and razed forests, of roving from job to job and mate to mate, amid such meagre electronic distractions as heist movies featuring car wrecks and fireballs and television comedies that reflect as in a fuzzy, fizzing mirror the awkward comedy of our desperate daily improvisations beyond the ordering principals of church, village, and family hierarchy...Only the rich - and not all of them, for some turn rebellious and others topple through self-neglect into lower castes - can afford the old structures that carry us from cradle to grave, well-fed, well-clothed, and well-respected.\\"<br /><br />\\"There are fewer and fewer somewheres in America, and more and more anywheres, strung out along the highways.\\"<br /><br />\\"It is a mad thing, to be alive.  Villages exist to moderate this madness - to hide it from children, to bottle it for private use, to smooth its imperative into habits, to protect us from the darkness without and the darkness within.\\"<br /><br />The only summation of this book worthy of the writer is simply to encourage everyone to read it.  An extraordinary journey is between these covers.  Grady Harp, November 2004An extraordinary journey is between these covers.           Grady Harp, November 2004	2004-11-04
470144:US	52496677	RZ10J012ZCP0F	0821228552	295289189	Amazing Men: Courage, Insight, Endurance	Books	5	2	2	N	N	And beyond the Baby Boomers.............?	Joyce Tenneson respects her subjects, whether they be flowers, women or men, and after her illuminating book WISE WOMEN in which she photographed and quoted women over the age of 60 she now gives us an equally elegant survey of Men over the age of 60. In this youth oriented culture where physical beauty is celebrated and chased by Botox, plastic surgery, laser and herbs, it is refreshing to read and view this beautiful book which goes beyond surfaces to souls.<br /><br />Beginning with the cover photograph of Sir Ben Kingsley, Tenneson has photographed a large sector of men in the latter portion of the cycle of life. Her photographs are real, not manipulated, and survey all manner of men. Associated with each photograph is a tidbit of wisdom from the subject and the format is touching and warm. Appearing in this book are such disparate subjects as Robert DeNiro, Tom Brokaw, Patrick Stewart, Bill Cosby and John Kerry. But the list goes on, weaving in and out of the lives of people we know and some we should. A very tender book, respecting an increasingly large part of our population that deserves out attention. Grady Harp, November 2004	2004-11-01
472151:US	52496677	RFUE6OBG5199P	1904563007	72896122	Ghetto	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the Most Powerful Artistic Documentaries Available	GHETTO takes us places we never knew about or ever thought we could go. But with COLORS Magazine editors Adam Broomberg and Oliver Chanarin there is now a beautifully designed and executed portfolio of twelve contemporary 'ghettos' from a Leisure World in the USA to Psychiatric Hospitals in Cuba and Italy, to prisons in Pollsmorr South Africa and and Italy, Star City military compound in Russia, gypsy camps in Macedonia, and Cigre, Kurdistan and Hong Kong. Over the months this project absorbed the editors approached each ghetto with the same process: identify the individuals there, ask the same basic questions about their needs, feelings, survival and at the same time photograph those interviewed and the surroundings in which they found themselves.Rarely has a volume been so non-biased and empathetic as this valuable journal. There is no sensationalism of subject matter, no abuse of individual privacy, only a thoroughly artistic survey of ghettoized groups of people and their responses to their conditions. A Very powerful document - and a very beautifully designed and constructed volume. Grady Harp, October 2004	2004-10-30
472347:US	52496677	R3063K5EP9BDRD	0500284989	209918553	Pornoland	Books	4	9	9	N	N	An Adventure Book!	PORNOLAND is not what you would imagine from the title: this is not a down-and-dirty expose of the seamy exploitation of pornography.  This book is a running commentary on the world of making Porn movies, an industry that has flourished since the first movie camera was made (and indeed, in etchings and drawings that date back centuries in time!).  Photographer Stefano de Luigi has traveled to Los Angeles, Milan, Budapest, Prague, Tokyo,  and Dortmund and captured the process involved of making low budget, negligibly scripted, one-movie-per-day pornography flicks: his photographs are more about color and atmosphere on set than they are about the actors at work.  The impact of this voyeuristic journey is made more solid by the accompanying writings of Martin Amis (whose novels such as the current 'Yellow Dog' continue to be best sellers).<br /><br />There are no moments of revelation and certainly no judgments made.  Instead this is one of those photography books that is satisfied to inform without editorial comment. And the adventures described are worth the ride!  Grady Harp, October 2004	2004-10-30
472556:US	52496677	RGRU4OBTC0FM8	0711222193	510085058	Flowers	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Beauty for the sake of Beauty	Jo Self is a British artist who paints flowers.  That may not seem too out of the ordinary, but this book, simply and aptly titled FLOWERS, is a very special experience.  Self was given a two-year fellowship at Kews where she spent her time observing gardens and painting flowers.  These paintings are over-large (6 foot by 6 foot) blossoms that are celebratory and investigatory at the same time.  The sheer magnificence of some of her selected blooms are overpowering yet very beautiful.  Her observations and renderings of flowers on the wane are some of the more memorable works in this volume.<br /><br />Accompanying this portfolio (of very fine color reproductions) are essays by author Will Self, art critic Sarah Kent and garden expert Elspeth Thompson, each of which adds a new dimension to the appreciation of nature from varied stances.  A lovely book, this.  Grady Harp, October 2004	2004-10-30
472650:US	52496677	RM5H2YB9OZM4I	0714839086	76793384	Ed Ruscha	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Noble Monograph of an American Icon	With the recent news that artist Ed Ruscha has been selected to represent the USA at the 2005 Venice Biennale, it becomes even more important to access the impact of this consistently important artist. ED RUSCHA is a book to accompany the important retrospective of the artist's works throughout his career - from his introduction in the 1960's POP ART movement to the present. The book is lavishly illustrated with excellent reproductions of Ruscha's work and not only repeats the images we have all grown to associate with Pop Art (especially in California) such as his infamous Hollywood sign and Standard Gas Station, images that have endeared him to America much in the same vein as Edward Hopper: it also explores the single word paintings and the artistic comments on our environment that grow more pertinent every day.In addition to this fine book as a full compendium of Ruscha's painting and prints, it is also a wisely written treatise by author Edward D. Marshall in a series of essays that are as fine as any in print in today's museum catalogues. This is a definitive volume on an important artist: it is also a book that would be enjoyed by every guest sitting near your coffee table. Here is a bit of Americana of which we can still be proud!<br /><br />  Grady Harp, October 2004	2004-10-30
472819:US	52496677	R3EXTO2SM7U6C9	0500092923	232462157	Wayne Thiebaud: A Paintings Retrospective	Books	5	11	11	N	N	'What is America To Me?"	Remember that old Frank Sinatra song that served as an inspirational film for rainy day grade school entertainment in the 50's?  Well, if there is an artist who has captured the imagination and dreamy reveries of life in the past century, the quieter, more ebulliently committed time to joy and the simple treasures here, that man is Wayne Thiebaud.  WAYNE THIEBAUD: A PAINTINGS RETROSPECTIVE is a beautifully designed catalogue raisonne of the pop artist's oeuvre that toured the country a few years ago.  Organized by curator Steven A. Nash of San Francisco (the artist's home) this book is beautifully illustrated with all of the iconic images of pies, cakes, candy apples, etc. that everyone associates with Thiebaud. Yet it gives equal time to the inimitable 'landscapes' of the hilly terrain that is San Francisco, valleys of Northern California, and beaches.  Thiebaud's ability to flatten vistas into geometric patterns can be compared to Richard Diebenkorn's purely abstract Ocean Park Series of paintings: both artists understand space, color, and the excitement of the line.<br /><br />Accompanying this 'delicious' array of Thiebaud paintings are essays by both Nash and by Adam Gopnik of 'New Yorker' who aptly praises Thiebaud as a man in the same company of Americana as Walt Whitman, William Carlos Williams, and John Updike!  That about sums it all up and this essay alone would be reason enough to buy this important volume of American art history.  Simply superb.  Grady Harp, October, 2004	2004-10-30
477037:US	52496677	RMQSDWJYPJVO9	1586483196	387128378	The Abu Ghraib Investigations: The Official Independent Panel and Pentagon Reports on the Shocking Prisoner Abuse in Iraq	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Documentation of the Greed, Horror, and Inhumanity of War	THE ABU GHRAIB INVESTIGATIONS may not be a book readers will elect to purchase and read, but this finely edited treatise by Steven Strausser is a document that should be part of the history books and of the information presented to the American public at this particular time.<br /><br />While Americans were shocked by the incredibly agonizing photographs of prisoner abuse in the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq, little information as to the extent of this atrocity has been readily available.  After an informative and well-written introduction by Craig Whitney, the actual Department of Defense Detention Operations Abu Ghraib Report is presented in complete form.  The now infamous photographs, which devastated the American image throughout the world, are presented here.  The Investigation of the Abu Ghraib Detention Facility and 205th Military Intelligence Brigade  include not only the physical and sexual abuses and drug problems in the prison, but also the frightful lack of control over the soldier's in charge of interrogations and prisoners.  Frequent references to the situations at Guantanamo Bay prisons and the trail of responsibility for prisoner abuse leading all the way to the White House make for fascinating though very disturbing reading.<br /><br />Time will deal with these documents and what they represent in our history, but at the present one wonders if the conditions at Abu Ghraib prison were much different during the reign of Hussein.  Much food for thought here and a prayer for action to prevent such atrocities of war in the future.  Strasser is to be commended as an editor for his refraining to add comment, but to let the horror on these pages speak for itself.	2004-10-26
477893:US	52496677	R3EICWKP5HJPO3	0760761507	766355223	Intimacy: The Sensual Essence of Flowers	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Floral Reveries	Joyce Tenneson is not only a gifted photographer, she is also in touch with the secrets of nature as documented in this extraordinarily beautiful, understated book of photographs of flowers. Using a monochromatic background (usually black) Tenneson focuses her eye and lens on the most fragile parts of flowers, irresistibly bringing us into the stamens and pistils at the core of creation or perpetration of flowers. There is something very sensual (in the finest sense of that word) to her work: she is not trying to make her subjects appear as metaphors to human anatomy a la Mapplethorpe - she just lets the flowers inner workings speak eloquently for themselves. Hence the title INTIMACY. But Tenneson does not limit her attention to the reproductive origins of her flowers: simple shots of petals and whole blossoms add to the journey or cycle of life. And sparingly inserted fragments of poetry from the likes of Rachel Carson and ee cummings comment just enough to keep the viewer in tune with the flow of the volume.This is an exquisite book, an ideal gift for those people in your life who flesh out your existence and enhance your world.	2004-10-25
478064:US	52496677	RW24EAL7TVBG1	0714842230	978619905	The Devil's Playground	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Nan Goldin's Magnum Opus	DEVIL'S PLAYGROUND is a lap-heavy, huge tome of the creative photographs of Nan Goldin, many of which have never before been published.  Goldin is know throughout the museums of the world as a photographer who knows no barriers for her subject matter: AIDS victims, mental patients, transvestites, poor families, rural landscapes, constructed still lifes - these are but a few of the categories studied and captured by Goldin.  For this full color volume Goldin selected the layout and the progression of sections, making the flow of the book even more fascinating; the book is one where she is both artist and curator and the result is a powerhouse of statement.<br /><br />For devotees of Nan Goldin's work, this book is a must.  And for viewers marginally approaching photography as an art form then look no further.  A magnum opus of the work of one of America's more significant contemporary artists.	2004-10-25
478254:US	52496677	R1H3C023QHWOAN	1576872106	633561588	Precious	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An Intimate Question Posed to Famous Subjects is Revealing	PRECIOUS is a unique and very fine book of photography by Nigel Parry and Melanie Dunea who came up with the idea of approaching the luminaries they usually photograph with a single question: \\"What part of you is precious?\\". The result is a series of close-ups of eyes, lips, and mouths - all body parts considered by the subjects to be the most precious part of their appearance, life, and career. Each page is given full play to even a small part of the body designated by the subject and an added short comment by the subject accompanies the elegantly designed layout. The subjects are wide ranging: Renee Fleming, Johnny Depp, Twyla Tharp, Tommy Hilfiger, Lukas Haas, Elijah Wood, Harrison Ford, Meg Ryan, Paul Theroux, Paul Giamatti - the list goes on covering not only Hollywood stars but also figures from the dance, theater, fashion, model, music, and literature worlds. This is a fascinating coffee table book that is probably more intimate than any single monograph of any one of the subjects!	2004-10-25
480660:US	52496677	R1D3AJI9L8NCTP	0595320856	369836599	Diving The Seamount	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An adventure for the mind, the spirit, and the soul	DIVING THE SEAMOUNT is a terse, intricately woven tale of the effects of shedding the world-weary outer skin by communing with nature and the core whispers of healing that surrender offers.  Set in La Paz, Baja California, author Tom Rapko tells - no, shows - us a place called the Seamount which is a ancient volcano under the waters off Baja, a site known by legend to be the source of spiritual renewal. Rapko  intertwines the lives of disparate people, each of whom needs a moment of life renewal, as they dive and photograph and experience the wonder of the seamount.  By juxtaposing the lives of the peasants in La Paz with the lives of the 'outsiders' who come to La Paz to dive, the author makes numerous comparisons and metaphors as to what is the essence of being.  Without succuming to being preachy, Rapko delivers meaningful moments in an easy to read format, moments that linger for reflection long after the reader finishes this book.  Recommended.	2004-10-23
483216:US	52496677	RNU9SNKLE3WSV	1595262741	696833744	Dreaming of Amerika	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Brave, Sincere, Warmly Inspirational Statement of Pride	DREAMING OF AMERIKA is a book each of us needs to read just about now, when our view of the country is at twists and turns as we reenact the Vietnam blunder in Iraq and find ourselves embarrassed by the way the world outside is viewing us.  Times such as these challenge those 'feel good moments' that usually surface on July 4th during a fireworks display and the music of Aaron Copeland and the poetry of Walt Whitman. Gabe G. Kubichek has the gift to alter present perceptions.<br /><br />Kubichek's messages are many, but his apparent reason for writing this memoir is to tell us exactly what happened during the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, a terrifying moment in history in which he was in the center of the horror and managed to escape his native Hungary to flee with the thousands of refugees to the land of freedom - America.  As background to this expose, Kubichek returns to his childhood and the dreams of American cowboys and Indians courtesy of the movies.  His story progresses through the Communist domination of Hungary after WW II, his service in the military, his convictions that Communism was simply not the answer to Hungary's poverty and political unrest with his subsequent imprisonment for his beliefs, and his eventual presence in the massacre of Hungarians during the infamous revolt of 1956.<br /><br />Kubichek escaped first to Canada, then to the US and even volunteered as a citizen to spend time in Vietnam teaching helicopter mechanics to the Vietnamese. Throughout all of his life to the time of this writing at age 70, he is driven by his love for the Freedom in America, a right he sees us, as people who have never lived nder a dictatorship, as taking for granted.<br /><br />Kubichek writes simply yet eloquently, not depending on grand prose to relate his convictions as illustrated by his memoirs, but electing to share his life as though he were writing us a personal letter about his past.  If he spends a bit too much time on his sexual conquests or his obsession with women, this only enhances his reality as a man at once simple in his drives, yet heroic in his life choices.  This is a book that is well worth the attention  of our weary state in America today.  It is warming to read the thoughts of a man who has kept his eye on our much taken for granted rainbow of freedom.r his obsession with women, this only enhances his reality as a man at once simple in his drives, yet heroic in his life choices.  This is a book that is well worth the attention  of our weary state in America today.  It is warming to read the thoughts of a man who has kept his eye on our much taken for granted rainbow of freedom.	2004-10-20
485536:US	52496677	R2V4ZXDL1TWIL7	1400041651	298157737	Port Mungo	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Art with a Darker Palette	Patrick McGrath finds genetic seeds for characters who border on the edge of maladaptation or evil or amorality.  PORT MUNGO follows the line of his successful THE ASYLUM, DR. HAGGARD'S DISEASE, MARTHA PEAKE, and SPIDER,  and despite the fact that he can be considered the progenitor for unlikable characters, he explores the psyches of these odd creatures with such skill that their darker sides often mesmerize us.<br /><br />Jack Rathbone is a 17-year-old youth in the UK who aspires to be an artist and lives with his sister Gin (the narrator of the story) who is devoted to her younger brother in a near pathologic manner.  Jack encounters Vera Savage, an exotic bohemian painter from Scotland who is well shown in the UK, and falls under the spell of his older chanteuse/alcoholic/free love personage.  The two become entwined as sexual partners and Jack encourages Vera to move to New York where they will open an 'American Studio' in the wildness of a new country and Jack will learn painting (and other lessons) from Vera.<br /><br />Once in Manhattan their painting is delayed by Vera's insatiable need to be the center of attention among new artsy acquaintances and her alcoholism triggers periods of absence.  Feeling confined by New York the two decide to seek other locations to pursue their art, and after a brief stay in Havana, Cuba they find the perfect isolation in Port Mungo - a seedy, smarmy, decadent Maughamesque spot in the Gulf of Honduras.  There they paint, drink, carouse, and while Jack develops a painting style of 'tropicalism', Vera begins to follow her sexual needs in adventures away from Port Mungo.  Always reuniting after these trysts and fights, they eventually have a daughter Peg and some years later another daughter Anna.  Vera soon deserts her family, leaving Jack (and on occasion his sister Gin) to raise the girls. Peg is more in the mold of her mother and is worshipped by Jack, but Peg dies in a quasi-mysterious fashion plunging Jack into a deep depression.<br /><br />Jack returns to New York to live with his sister Gin, and scathing rumors result in daughter Anna being adopted by her uncle who sees Jack as an inadequate parent.  Time passes until Anna returns as a young woman to re-enter Jack's life - older, wiser, and needy.  From this point on the story passes rapidly, enriched by characters who all deftly interplay with the strange history of what really happened in Port Mungo. Vera's absence is explained, Peg's death is clarified, and the true nature of each of these fascinating characters is painted before our eyes.<br /><br />McGrath leaves no one free of fault, of the ability to have a dark side, or to demonstrate that their chameleon lives can shed a dermis to reveal the core animal beneath.  He writes so well that once the story is started it is difficult to put aside, so wary are we of the tension always mounting.  He understands art and the artistic mind and has depicted the artist/model relationship as well as anyone writing today.  You may not like the characters in this book, but they will remain indelibly stamped on your mind.  Here is another fine work by one of our better novelists writing today.p depression. <br /> <br />Jack returns to New York to live with his sister Gin, and scathing rumors result in daughter Anna being adopted by her uncle who sees Jack as an inadequate parent.  Time passes until Anna returns as a young woman to re-enter Jack's life - older, wiser, and needy.  From this point on the story passes rapidly, enriched by characters who all deftly interplay with the strange history of what really happened in Port Mungo. Vera's absence is explained, Peg's death is clarified, and the true nature of each of these fascinating characters is painted before our eyes. <br /> <br />McGrath leaves no one free of fault, of the ability to have a dark side, or to demonstrate that their chameleon lives can shed a dermis to reveal the core animal beneath.  He writes so well that once the story is started it is difficult to put aside, so wary are we of the tension always mounting.  He understands art and the artistic mind and has depicted the artist/model relationship as well as anyone writing today.  You may not like the characters in this book, but they will remain indelibly stamped on your mind.  Here is another fine work by one of our better novelists writing today.	2004-10-18
486540:US	52496677	R1V2L8ZBANFA26	0618509283	528177434	The Plot Against America: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Intensely Interesting Question of 'What If'...	Philip Roth continues to challenge us in his novels with pithy concepts (the classic 'Portnoy's Complaint', 'Goodbye Columbus', 'The Dying Animal', 'The Human Stain', 'American Pastoral' etc - about 25 in all) written with such acerbic verve, wit, and investigation that he keeps his readers questioning 'how much more can there be?'. In THE PLOT AGAINST AMERICA, Roth appropriates facts from American history, and in doing so provides a new form of insight into the plight of the Jews at the time of World War II.<br /><br />To add credibility to his revised version of history he places his story in the household of the Roths - his own family, where he as Philip is the youngest member living in Newark, New Jersey, sensing the storms of being Jewish in America.  Though his family is wholesome and thoroughly 'American', they are aware of the degrees of isolation: wealthy Jews appear miscegenated whereas middle class and lower class Jews are ghettoized.<br /><br />It is 1940 and FDR as President is deeply concerned about Hitler's encroaching activities in Europe and Japan's mirror image conquests in Asia and the pacific.  Roosevelt is encouraging assisting Allied Forces to protect Russia, France, and England against the march of Nazis and Fascists.  At the same time aviator hero Charles Lindbergh has captured the hearts of Americans not only with his flying feats but also with the famous tragedy of his son's kidnapping.  Lindbergh (along with Henry Ford and others) has publicized connections with Hitler and is encouraging the United States, still shaken by the losses of WW I and the Great Depression, to stay our of Hitler's war in Europe - isolationism.<br /><br />It is at this point that Roth's postulate begins: by means of well-paced and documented incidents, Roth has Lindbergh defeat FDR and become the 33rd President of the US.  Once in office Lindbergh develops alliances with Hitler, initiates means of anti-Semitic segregation with what appears to wiser Jews to be a means of eliminating American Jews much as Hitler is decimating European Jews.  How the Roth family weathers this period of time and terror is the crux of this beautifully constructed, wholly credible novel.<br /><br />THE PLOT AGAINST AMERICA is not solely about pogroms and 'What if it happened here': Roth uses this matrix to explore the bonds of family, of friendship, of ethnic individuality, of commitment, of tackling fear for survival at the personal level.  Though we as the readers know how WW II ended, Roth convincingly introduces new variations to the equation and in doing so has created a suspenseful story that introduces characters whom we grow to love and others for whom we can acknowledge pity for paths inadvisedly taken.  This is a story of history revisited from a different vantage, told through the lives of some of Roth's more unforgettable characters.<br /><br />Wisely at the end of the novel, Roth recapitulates sources, facts, the actual histories and outcomes of all the people he uses in THE PLOT AGAINST AMERICA and in doing so provides a succinct and intelligent Coda that is refreshingly helpful in appreciating the 'novel' he has written.  A worthy read!be a means of eliminating American Jews much as Hitler is decimating European Jews.  How the Roth family weathers this period of time and terror is the crux of this beautifully constructed, wholly credible novel. <br /> <br />THE PLOT AGAINST AMERICA is not solely about pogroms and 'What if it happened here': Roth uses this matrix to explore the bonds of family, of friendship, of ethnic individuality, of commitment, of tackling fear for survival at the personal level.  Though we as the readers know how WW II ended, Roth convincingly introduces new variations to the equation and in doing so has created a suspenseful story that introduces characters whom we grow to love and others for whom we can acknowledge pity for paths inadvisedly taken.  This is a story of history revisited from a different vantage, told through the lives of some of Roth's more unforgettable characters. <br /> <br />Wisely at the end of the novel, Roth recapitulates sources, facts, the actual histories and outcomes of all the people he uses in THE PLOT AGAINST AMERICA and in doing so provides a succinct and intelligent Coda that is refreshingly helpful in appreciating the 'novel' he has written.  A worthy read!	2004-10-18
493685:US	52496677	R3K6BSX13IMTZT	1932133593	345250920	A Brief History of Disease, Science and Medicine: From the Ice Age to the Genome Project	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Return of Humanism in Medicine: Hope for the Future!	In this litigious time when physicians and all medical care workers tend to live under an umbrella of suspect brought on by the intervention of the media, vast lawsuits, big business (pharmaceutical companies) intervention, and computer access to data, there has occurred a response in the medical facilities to promote 'defensive medicine' to instruct the nascent students how to cope with the antagonistic world outside the halls of the teaching hospitals.  This has resulted in less emphasis on the learning of the skills of the time honored Doctor-Patient relationship and in creating the aura that physicians dwell in glass dome sanctuaries of science: the quiet moments of sharing personal fears and concerns and relieving the pain in the souls of the patient and patients' families seem  relics of the past house-call/caring-physician image.<br /><br />Michael Kennedy in his book A BRIEF HISTORY OF DISEASE, SCIENCE & MEDICINE has done more to rectify this widening gap between physician and patient than any volume I have read.  This meticulously written, dignified yet very warm and honest look at medicine from the Ice Age to the era of molecular and genetic concepts for the present and the future reads more like a fascinating novel than an academic treatise. There are facts and histories discussed here which will enlighten not only the general public but also the men and women of medicine - from premed student to retired doctor. It is simply an amazing source of knowledge while simultaneously being an honest, no-holds-barred review of how we came to this point in healthcare.  And if ever there were a time when this book was needed, it is certainly now.  Read this fascinating tome and learn not only the extraordinary progress made in the mystery of disease and physical meanderings away from the 'normal', but at the same time see just how vulnerable is the scientist and physician in dealing with new aspects of the art of practicing medicine through time.  Kennedy and his colleagues have added an important adjunct to the re-entry of humanism in the teaching of medicine at his alma mater: this book demonstrates that journey of commitment to resurrect the precious healing relationship  between the doctor and those who approach him for succor.  Read this book for a highly dignified history of medicine, for some amazing insights into disease process, and for reassurance the perhaps the return of the sanctity of healthcare delivery is a possibility. A fine and very important achievement, Dr. Kennedy!s colleagues have added an important adjunct to the re-entry of humanism in the teaching of medicine at his alma mater: this book demonstrates that journey of commitment to resurrect the precious healing relationship  between the doctor and those who approach him for succor.  Read this book for a highly dignified history of medicine, for some amazing insights into disease process, and for reassurance the perhaps the return of the sanctity of healthcare delivery is a possibility. A fine and very important achievement, Dr. Kennedy!	2004-10-11
493961:US	52496677	R3IAP7KA7E7D0J	0974946648	113240706	A Brief History of Disease, Science and Medicine	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Return of Humanism in Medicine: Hope for the Future!	In this litigious time when physicians and all medical care workers tend to live under an umbrella of suspect brought on by the intervention of the media, vast lawsuits, big business (pharmaceutical companies) intervention, and computer access to data, there has occurred a response in the medical facilities to promote 'defensive medicine' to instruct the nascent students how to cope with the antagonistic world outside the halls of the teaching hospitals. This has resulted in less emphasis on the learning of the skills of the time honored Doctor-Patient relationship and in creating the aura that physicians dwell in glass dome sanctuaries of science: the quiet moments of sharing personal fears and concerns and relieving the pain in the souls of the patient and patients' families seem relics of the past house-call/caring-physician image. Michael Kennedy in his book A BRIEF HISTORY OF DISEASE, SCIENCE & MEDICINE has done more to rectify this widening gap between physician and patient than any volume I have read. This meticulously written, dignified yet very warm and honest look at medicine from the Ice Age to the era of molecular and genetic concepts for the present and the future reads more like a fascinating novel than an academic treatise. There are facts and histories discussed here which will enlighten not only the general public but also the men and women of medicine - from premed student to retired doctor. It is simply an amazing source of knowledge while simultaneously being an honest, no-holds-barred review of how we came to this point in healthcare. And if ever there were a time when this book was needed, it is certainly now. Read this fascinating tome and learn not only the extraordinary progress made in the mystery of disease and physical meanderings away from the 'normal', but at the same time see just how vulnerable is the scientist and physician in dealing with new aspects of the art of practicing medicine through time. Kennedy and his colleagues have added an important adjunct to the re-entry of humanism in the teaching of medicine at his alma mater: this book demonstrates that journey of commitment to resurrect the precious healing relationship between the doctor and those who approach him for succor. Read this book for a highly dignified history of medicine, for some amazing insights into disease process, and for reassurance the perhaps the return of the sanctity of healthcare delivery is a possibility. A fine and very important achievement, Dr. Kennedy!ed an important adjunct to the re-entry of humanism in the teaching of medicine at his alma mater: this book demonstrates that journey of commitment to resurrect the precious healing relationship between the doctor and those who approach him for succor. Read this book for a highly dignified history of medicine, for some amazing insights into disease process, and for reassurance the perhaps the return of the sanctity of healthcare delivery is a possibility. A fine and very important achievement, Dr. Kennedy! <br />	2004-10-11
495991:US	52496677	R2E99LRHL3Y13B	0595316808	139504047	A Song From An Empty Forest: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Some promise here...and a good little fast read	A SONG FROM AN EMPTY FOREST succeeds because of the integrity of the author's purpose: Kathleen Ann Anderson structures her first novel with propulsive force and advances the story of an abused 'orphan' who has the desire to find her true history and begin a life away from the abusive all-male environment of her Grandfather's home.  Anderson has structured her novel well - events are first suggested, then happen, then have consequences and there are enough characters inhabiting the atmosphere that fall into focus to make the journey credible.  This is a good story to read in your leisure, easily read in an evening's diversion.  Perhaps in her next ventures Anderson will grow into a more polished developer of three-dimensional characters, and maybe the language will become more elegant and a little less 'fact begets fact' that keeps this novel grounded as opposed to taking flight.  The promise is there, especially for a first novel.	2004-10-08
498107:US	52496677	RJIZ55S2LEQ71	1931982325	328523192	The Soft Room	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Wondrous Novel that Explores and Celebrates Individuality	Karen Heuler arrives on the fiction novel scene with excellent credentials as a short story writer. It is rewarding to read such a fine extended novel from a writer who has specialized in the terse, concise, brief span of the short story mode: many who excel in that arena find the challenge of a long novel daunting.  Not Karen Heuler.  From the original concept of a novel about identical twin girls whose only apparent disparity is the analgia (inability to feel pain) of Meg, a 'defect?' which twin Abby does not share, Heuler has opened the bestiary of life at large and introduces fascinating character after character, each of whom comes to figure in the endlessly creative drama that unfolds.  The twins' parents devote their lives to protecting Meg from harm, creating a 'safe' environment that Meg brazenly ignores only to be victim to falls, cuts, bruises, fractures, and deformed limbs despite the omnipresent guardianship of her identical other, Abby.  The family's ability to survive this bizarre scientific variant is further complicated by the mother falling victim to a virulent cancer, a twist of fate that further burdens the finances of the family, ultimately forcing the father to move his family to the Institute where researchers welcome the ability to study Meg as a guinea pig while providing the mother with medical care. Life at the Institute includes at least one new friend, Greif, a girl whose mother has a genetic propensity to madness, a gene Greif assures the twins she will inherit.  That friendship provides ventures into the dark interstices of the research facilities of the Institute where the girls are made aware of animal experiments on human disease states. Of note, the agonizing pain  the twins' mother feels in response to her disease state and chemotherapy serve only as a trigger to make Meg flee the 'un-understood' pain of her mother.  After the mother's eventual death and the re-marriage of the father, Abby and Meg drift apart: being unable to live without each identical other ultimately results in strains neither can endure.  Abby marries and leads a normal home life , collecting cats and dogs, and aberrant needy homeless children in her workplace while Meg returns to the Institute to serve as a research assistant.  Meg herself begins occult-type treatments for her analgia in the form of injections and medications by one of the staff researchers.  By other twists of coincidence Meg, Greif and Abby reunite and discover their true individualities in a most absorbing and mysterious ending.<br /><br />If this all sounds rather odd - well, it is, and therein lies the magic of Karen Heuler.  Not only does she paint her characters with such realism that we can see them on the page and in the room around us, she also surveys psychological, medical, genetic, and scientific issues with such clarity that reading her book informs as well as entertains. \\"Science is a great adventure; so much is still undiscovered.  Every autopsy, every microscope slide - there could be anything there.  Doors.  They are all little doors. Some of the doors go nowhere, some lead back to the start. But there's always a door somewhere that takes you someplace totally new.\\"  \\"I want the exact moment when death occurs...The clinical picture. I believe there's part of the brain that signals death; that death itself is an organic response, not just a sort of loss of power.  I believe there's a point at which the brain - or the mind - refuses to live any longer because it recognizes that the destruction is overwhelming.\\"  \\"Thoughts are chemical - or at least thoughts tied to a physical impulse are.  Maybe it's true for all thoughts, even the thought for a play, a poem, a painting, a song.  All of it is capable of being induced. I really think everything is, even scientific breakthroughs, energy solutions, cures for cancer.  The idea is enormous!\\"  And suggesting the novel's conclusion (without giving it away!), \\"The mind is at its best when distracted from itself.  Such a tragedy, although I see in it a parable of sorts.  It is interesting, isn't it, that when [Meg] was immune to pain she had no purpose; it is only now, when she must lock herself up in a soft room, that she can focus.\\"<br /><br />And though I find myself quoting the more scientific aspects of Hueler's novel, it is her beautiful prose and vivid characterization that make this alluring novel a page turner.  This is a writer of exceptional talent, a writer who is a joy to read.  It is also important to comment that the care in choosing the cover of this book seduces you into the mysteries and joys between the covers. On the book's cover is a superb design by Helosia Zero which focuses on the very beautiful painting of twins by the artist David Fratkin.  Boy, as a curator and art writer I would certainly like to see more of his work!  Highly recommended reading and an especially fine choice for book clubs and other intellectual pursuits!cted from itself.  Such a tragedy, although I see in it a parable of sorts.  It is interesting, isn't it, that when [Meg] was immune to pain she had no purpose; it is only now, when she must lock herself up in a soft room, that she can focus.\\"<br /><br />And though I find myself quoting the more scientific aspects of Hueler's novel, it is her beautiful prose and vivid characterization that make this alluring novel a page turner.  This is a writer of exceptional talent, a writer who is a joy to read.  It is also important to comment that the care in choosing the cover of this book seduces you into the mysteries and joys between the covers. On the book's cover is a superb design by Helosia Zero which focuses on the very beautiful painting of twins by the artist David Fratkin.  Boy, as a curator and art writer I would certainly like to see more of his work!  Highly recommended reading and an especially fine choice for book clubs and other intellectual pursuits!	2004-10-07
499250:US	52496677	R2D7I3WL1430CF	0972429557	721840104	The Weight Of Nothing	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Meticulously Crafted, Inordinately Consuming Novel	\\"There's a point in every piece of music when the melody completes itself and what's left is a final refrain. Occasionally an aria will vary its rhythm just enough to reinterpret the music through a less predictable finish, and other times an arrangement ends so suddenly the audience isn't quite sure  the music's over until the last echoing notes have faded and the room falls eerily still.  Either way, the song is done.\\"<br /><br />Steven Gillis quietly set the literary cognoscenti on alert with the publication of his first novel WALTER FALLS last year.  As always the question arises when a `first novel' suggests a talent of depth: Is there more?  With the writing of THE WEIGHT OF NOTHING Gillis proves that his prelude, no matter how accomplished that was, served as only as intimation of the talent of this new American writer of substance.  Gillis is that rare breed of writer who understands how to grasp the reader's attention, secure a train of thought in content and technique, assuring that once the written journey has begun, the only choice is to hold on with mind and emotion to the anticipated conclusion.<br /><br />THE WEIGHT OF NOTHING intertwines the lives of several young people in quest of the answer to the universal question of `Who Am I?' in a way that avoids the predictable and in essence incorporates their ephemeral acts with paired explorations in philosophy, art, music, religion, and global socioeconomic problems.  In short, this is a story of two men whose early lives were set in motion by traumatic confrontations with loss and the aimlessness that accompanies that unleashed spectre.<br /><br />Bailey Finne is a gifted natural musician, Secretly learning piano from his musical mother until she is lost to him in childhood in a freak death that pushed his alcoholic father further away from his two sons (Bailey's older brother Tyler responds to this death by fleeing into a life crime, the military, and eventually terrorism).  Descrying his father's flaccid, empty life, Bailey embraces music, being able to play all manner of music by ear but settling for entertaining folks in a bar rather than pursuing a career in classical music.  He eventually becomes an art history major in college and blithely approaches his dissertation on an obtuse recluse of an artist (L.C. Timbal) with the same glib attitude that has become his life signature.  He has girlfriends who try to encourage his gifts, but none more significantly than Elizabeth, a music major/pianist/composer who lost her right arm in a vicious dog attack.  Bailey's obsession with her after she leaves him because of this immature, slothful attitude towards things she considers important propels Bailey on his journey to discover what is meaningful in life.  \\"It's the conflict between what ends and our need to continue that causes trauma.\\"<br /><br />Niles Kelley is the only son of a megalomaniac capitalist who unsuccessfully attempts to mold Niles into a template of his design, seeing no value at all in Niles' preoccupation with literature and philosophy - especially his `hero' the nihilist Camus - nor his relationship with Jeana, a free spirit who encourages Niles' dreams and sees the evil in the capitalistic empiricism of Niles' father.  In a auspicious moment of time Niles loses Jeana as she enters the building where Niles' father controls industry: the building is exploded with terrorist bombs placed there by one Tyler Finne and his roommate, the Muslim Oz, a lad who loathes American capitalism and has grown disenchanted with his own father's superficial use of religion to camouflage his own power brand of capitalism.  The result of this tragic loss of his beloved Jeana and the collapse of his father's influence drives Niles into a state of self-mutilation, an illness for which he seeks the advice of a Muslim philosopher/healer who encourages Niles to go to Algiers to better understand the writings of Camus and find healing for his malady and his need for forgiveness for Jeana's useless death and his father's `part' in that calamity.  In Algiers he hoped to find \\"the surrounding silence Camus wrote of  as weaving together the hopes and despairs of human life.\\"<br /><br />Bailey and Niles, fellow students at a university, grow close at the funeral for Jeana and eventually accompany each other to Algiers, Niles to seek forgiveness and healing through Camus, and Bailey to finally focus his diasporic creative mind on finding the elusive painter Timbal - the subject of his long avoided dissertation.  Bailey tends to Niles' somnambulistic wanderings and self-mutilations while Niles encourages Bailey's efforts to bring closure to his fragmented life.  As Bailey discovers Timbal and confronts his own vacuous artistic and spiritual life, Niles wanders the desert and encounters Aziz, a man who assists him in finding the perpetrator of Jeana's death and Niles' life ends in a way that brings him into the ring of closure of his author hero Camus wrote in A Happy Death.  Devastated, Bailey returns home, begins therapy with Emmitt who slowly helps Bailey become grounded into finding peace through a long series of self-imposed deprivations meant to clear the slate of his life and allow him a starting point afresh - \\"to achieve a point of nothingness and return to a natural state of being.\\" \\"The idea that examining our past will lead us to a clearer understanding of ourselves, and in turn a more constructive life, is egocentric....Self-knowledge is unreliable at best and at times a danger.  The emphasis should be not on remembering but forgetting and returning to a point where no wounds exist.\\"<br /><br />Steven Gillis draws such exquisite characters that each becomes wholly believable, even at their obtuse edges.  The story is told in a series of explanations introduced very slyly by a page or two of what we eventually realize are on-going therapy sessions with Emmitt for Bailey and Massinissa Alilouche for Niles.  But the real wonder of Gillis' writing stems from his obviously profound depth of knowledge about art (here is a fine synopsis of the works of Bacon, Gorky, Diebenkorn, the abstract Expressionists, etc), of music ( Bailey's turning point in his break with Elizabeth is his ability to play an Etude by the obscure composer Nikolai Roslavets (1881-1944), a Russian composer who did exist and married the styles of Debussy with Scriabin and Rachmaninoff and Shostakovich with his own Messiaen-like sense of atonality), of the very current schism between American imperialism and the view of the Muslims we are now breathing, of the great literature of the 20th Century, of terrorism, and of world politics.  He writes poetically about the smells and vistas of Algiers in a way that would suggest that he has lived there extensively.  At the same time he is able to make wry tongue-in-cheek diversions by naming the buildings that housed the fathers of Bailey and Niles \\"Ryse and Fawl\\" and \\"Reedum and Wepe\\"!  It is this sophisticated mixture of parody, metaphor, depth of factual material from disparate fields of knowledge, and impressive sense of structural detail that makes his fascinatingly unique and timely story and characters burst off the page.  Steven Gillis enters the ranks of the important writers and thinkers of the 21st Century.  With THE WEIGHT OF NOTHING he assures us his future is solid.need for forgiveness for Jeana's useless death and his father's `part' in that calamity.  In Algiers he hoped to find \\"the surrounding silence Camus wrote of   as weaving together the hopes and despairs of human life.\\" <br /> <br />Bailey and Niles, fellow students at a university, grow close at the funeral for Jeana and eventually accompany each other to Algiers, Niles to seek forgiveness and healing through Camus, and Bailey to finally focus his diasporic creative mind on finding the elusive painter Timbal - the subject of his long avoided dissertation.  Bailey tends to Niles' somnambulistic wanderings and self-mutilations while Niles encourages Bailey's efforts to bring closure to his fragmented life.  As Bailey discovers Timbal and confronts his own vacuous artistic and spiritual life, Niles wanders the desert and encounters Aziz, a man who assists him in finding the perpetrator of Jeana's death and Niles' life ends in a way that brings him into the ring of closure of his author hero Camus wrote in A Happy Death.  Devastated, Bailey returns home, begins therapy with Emmitt who slowly helps Bailey become grounded into finding peace through a long series of self-imposed deprivations meant to clear the slate of his life and allow him a starting point afresh - \\"to achieve a point of nothingness and return to a natural state of being.\\" \\"The idea that examining our past will lead us to a clearer understanding of ourselves, and in turn a more constructive life, is egocentric....Self-knowledge is unreliable at best and at times a danger.  The emphasis should be not on remembering but forgetting and returning to a point where no wounds exist.\\"  <br /> <br /> <br />Steven Gillis draws such exquisite characters that each becomes wholly believable, even at their obtuse edges.  The story is told in a series of explanations introduced very slyly by a page or two of what we eventually realize are on-going therapy sessions with Emmitt for Bailey and Massinissa Alilouche for Niles.  But the real wonder of Gillis' writing stems from his obviously profound depth of knowledge about art (here is a fine synopsis of the works of Bacon, Gorky, Diebenkorn, the abstract Expressionists, etc), of music ( Bailey's turning point in his break with Elizabeth is his ability to play an Etude by the obscure composer Nikolai Roslavets (1881-1944), a Russian composer who did exist and married the styles of Debussy with Scriabin and Rachmaninoff and Shostakovich with his own Messiaen-like sense of atonality), of the very current schism between American imperialism and the view of the Muslims we are now breathing, of the great literature of the 20th Century, of terrorism, and of world politics.  He writes poetically about the smells and vistas of Algiers in a way that would suggest that he has lived there extensively.  At the same time he is able to make wry tongue-in-cheek diversions by naming the buildings that housed the fathers of Bailey and Niles \\"Ryse and Fawl\\" and \\"Reedum and Wepe\\"!  It is this sophisticated mixture of parody, metaphor, depth of factual material from disparate fields of knowledge, and impressive sense of structural detail that makes his fascinatingly unique and timely story and characters burst off the page.  Steven Gillis enters the ranks of the important writers and thinkers of the 21st Century.  With THE WEIGHT OF NOTHING he assures us his future is solid. <br />	2004-10-06
503186:US	52496677	R35RT8E35SF9W2	0802117732	166279916	True North	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A Strange but Intoxicating Journey to Delayed Adulthood	Jim Harrison is a writer's writer and a reader's writer and quite simply one of the best yarn spinners writing today.  TRUE NORTH is a fine work of fiction that not only tells an intensely interesting story, it also exudes some of the more poetic prose and contemplative spiritual psychology that touches an audience of readers longing for books about environmentalism, about contemporary sexuality, about dysfunctional families, and about seeking sanity in a world apparently bent on squashing it.<br /><br />Briefly, this is the story of David Burkett, born to Robber Barons in the Upper Penisula of Michigan who gained their wealth at the expense of destroying the timber lands which in turn deprived the Native Americans of their space and created a desecration of the land through logging and mining that permanently altered the target of their greed.  But David wants revenge on his family's history, a history which includes his immediate family - a mother so lost in pills and alcohol and high society that she is unavailable, a father who is also an alcoholic, a pedophile, and in general a detestable boor who buys his way out of recurring run-ins with the law for raping young girls only to spend and squander the family fortune for his insatiable hedonism, and a sister Cynthia who, though younger than David, is brassy enough to escape this detestable family and run off with a half breed to disgrace the family she loathes.  David attempts to avoid his genetic disposition by committing to right wing religion, but eventually fails in that and finds himself lusting after every female he encounters - never finding love, but never really knowing how to love.  He finally decides his only salvation is to write a book that tells the public the truth about the environmental murderers of his family and his attempts to accomplish this mission fill the pages of this wondrous novel.  How he finally arrives at a stage of self-realization and leaves his obsession with destroying the influence of his family's influence to discover that wearing the sins of his father around his neck has prevented him from looking up and ahead and seeing the beauty of nature and the connection with the meaning of life that this allows is the remarkable journey Harrison creates.<br /><br />This story is never less than interesting and absorbing as a novel, but it is in the language of writing that Jim Harrison excels.  His style includes free-association of sometimes a dozen thoughts and memories and observations in one paragraph.  But he never loses us as readers.  At times he stops for poetic words and the reader is strongly tempted to underline favorite passages as poems for re-reading later. \\"When you're sixteen your world is small and events easily conspire to make it even smaller. You have glimpses of greater dimensions but this perception easily retracts.  Eros enlivens another world but not the simple world of masturbatory trance...Naturally during the act of love you're undisturbed by reality, a grace note I also found in trout fishing, but then lovemaking and fishing don't manage to dominate your life like you wished they could.\\"  \\"[Laurie] didn't so much die as withdraw, and her body under the sheet was still but there was an aura of departure that made me feel cold despite the warm room.  Instead of pressing the button to call a nurse I listened to an aspect of emptiness I hadn't heard before as if her passing had stopped all other sound....When it was over I had nothing left about which to draw conclusions. My incomprehension was total. She was there and then she wasn't and though I understood the biological fact of death the whole ballooned outward from the mute sum of the parts.\\"  \\"...I recalled how a wonderfully cynical history professor had pointed out that when we came to America we were always discovering something like the source of the Mississippi that the Natives were already well aware of, but then our attitude to the Natives was not unlike Hitler's attitude toward the Jews.  And the history of my family was not unlike the history of he United States.  We were among the leading conquerors of a region and when we had thoroughly depleted its main resources we mythologized our destruction.\\"  \\"(Boating) With each stroke I'd think of something, say how all religions seemed to imitate and sacrifice themselves to temporal powers thus allowing greed to wrap itself in a semi-holy mantle, then after each strong stroke there was a long glide when I'd become utterly submerged in the sheer 'thingness' of life around me and be incapable of thought let alone comprehension: lake, water, sky, bird, my feet, my breathing.\\"  \\"I kept thinking that throughout the world  there are sons and daughters with distorted wishes for what their parents should be, or hopeless wishes for what their parents should have been.  Some of the most critical of us are afflicted with a paralysis over this, our brains too active with resentment to solidify function....My reaction had nothing to do with anger or curiosity but a mute acceptance of the human condition, the brain spinning tales before which we are quite helpless.\\"<br /><br />But one could continue quoting Harrison's writing and never touch on the moments of hilarity, of pathos, of tenderness, of unimaginable cruelty, all of which are blended in this amazing story.  This is a novel to read again - like returning to your childhood to see if it really is what you remembered, or imagined. Highly recommended reading.itler's attitude toward the Jews.  And the history of my family was not unlike the history of he United States.  We were among the leading conquerors of a region and when we had thoroughly depleted its main resources we mythologized our destruction.\\"   \\"(Boating) With each stroke I'd think of something, say how all religions seemed to imitate and sacrifice themselves to temporal powers thus allowing greed to wrap itself in a semi-holy mantle, then after each strong stroke there was a long glide when I'd become utterly submerged in the sheer 'thingness' of life around me and be incapable of thought let alone comprehension: lake, water, sky, bird, my feet, my breathing.\\"  \\"I kept thinking that throughout the world  there are sons and daughters with distorted wishes for what their parents should be, or hopeless wishes for what their parents should have been.  Some of the most critical of us are afflicted with a paralysis over this, our brains too active with resentment to solidify function....My reaction had nothing to do with anger or curiosity but a mute acceptance of the human condition, the brain spinning tales before which we are quite helpless.\\" <br /> <br />But one could continue quoting Harrison's writing and never touch on the moments of hilarity, of pathos, of tenderness, of unimaginable cruelty, all of which are blended in this amazing story.  This is a novel to read again - like returning to your childhood to see if it really is what you remembered, or imagined. Highly recommended reading.	2004-10-02
515720:US	52496677	R1JSMXWXM0KJ1E	1400062047	930250694	Sweet Land Stories	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Doctorow Delivers Gripping Stories about the Ordinary Man	SWEET LAND STORIES is another superlative venture for E.L. Doctorow, one of the very finest writers in the country.  Though known best for his larger tomes that mingle history and fiction as well as anyone has ever done, this small book of five stories reveals a master in creating characters and stories in a few pages that become indelible in the reader's mind.  In his hands the most apparently simple settings become backdrops for complex, extensive tapestries that reveal how the 'little man/woman'  can be pitched and tossed into the most bizarre tangle of events and yet somehow survive.  In a time when many of us worry about the spiritual vacuum of life in the 21st Century, when the individual seems buried in the media pile of homogenation, look to Doctorow's fertile mind to remember and perhaps redefine the role of the Everyman.  These stories are varied and extraordinarily well written:  'A House on the Plains' seems to be a tale of survival found in fleeing an urban center to a new life for a family on the plains, only to become a wholly different surprising macabre tale in the end: 'Baby Wilson' focuses on a couple who walk out a hospital with someone else's baby, flee, and watch their lives mutate; 'Walter John Harmon' concerns a community of brainwashed folk under the influence of a Spiritual Leader and the consequences of manipulation in the religion realm; 'Jolene: A Life' follows the course of an abused orphan through the country as she moves from one bad husband to the next - holding our hearts in her hand; 'Child, Dead, in the Rose Garden' is Doctorow's indictment of the credibility gap in the White House management of Intelligence sharing - a different and terrifying aside on terrorism so much in focus today.  Doctorow tells these stories with elegant prose, terse and delicate economy, and once again proves he can spin a yarn better than most writers active today.  A Brilliant Collection!	2004-09-20
517363:US	52496677	R27NNTEM27TQP	0595316239	107840623	The Jihad Virus: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Searingly informed,elegantly crafted,timely terrorist tale	THE JIHAD VIRUS is one of those rare books that pack so much understandable information about matters scientific that the reader benefits form an enriched education while still being \\"entertained.\\"  Thomas P. Hopp reveals himself to be a fine writer, able to use his obvious depth of knowledge (he is schooled in immunology and virology and has made a significant impact on the fields of genetic engineering and vaccine production) and go beyond those elements of content to create a novel that is enriched by three-dimensional characters about whom we care very much.  He wisely introduces his story with a quiet press conference about a problem at the Canadian/US border that his inquisitive reporter  Fin Morton investigates and finds that the 'problem' is a genetically altered form of smallpox virus that has been engineered by Islamic terrorists to be a weapon of vast destruction not unlike the plague of the Middle Ages!  Just how he proceeds with his investigative reporting, enlisting a genius immunologist, becoming infected with the deadly altered virus, and eventually uncovering the deadly plot, makes for page-turning reading.  Yes, similar topics are rampant in both the movie theaters and on the shelves in bookstores right now: we live in the time of fear and anxiety about germ warfare among other forms of terrorism.  But few writers have the ability to create so credible a scenario as Hopp.  This is a fascinating book to read, a wakeup call to those who think 'it can't happen here', and a tribute to the talent of a fine scientist who has successfully crossed the bridge into quality literature!  Recommended Reading!	2004-09-18
522084:US	52496677	R371QQ8VUCOLB9	0813922704	582147712	Beloved Boy: Letters to Hendrik C. Andersen, 18991915	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	The Pleasures of Reading the Intimate Henry James	Amazon.com wisely recommends HENRY JAMES: BELOVED BOY Letters to Hendrick C. Andersen, 1899 - 1915 as a suggested companion book to Colm Toibin's THE MASTER.  Fine work on their part!  This rather slim volume is a delight to read.  The Introduction by both Millicent Bell and especially by Rosella Mamoli Zorzi (who had introduced the initial printing of these letters in Italian in 2000) set an interesting backdrop for the window into Henry James life and love, though both are a bit too cautious  in reassuring the reader that just because the letters from the 56+ year old Henry James and the 27-year-old Norwegian American sculptor Hendrick Andersen 'sound' passionate, that they really don't indicate a sexual history between the two!  That fact, to this reader, is inconsequential.  Few who linger through the elegant and at time effusive prose written by the Master author to a fledgling sculptor cannot dismiss that there was a commitment of passion there: whether or not that passion was physically consummated is entirely secondary and certainly may remain in the realm of privacy.  Henry James writes of his obvious attraction to the handsome, muscular sculptor who had rather grandiose dreams of creating monumental nudes for a utopian World City. James' letters prove him to be a rather astute art critic and mentor as well as a December/May epistolary (at least) lover.  He encourages Andersen's talent over the 15 years of letter exchange, looks out for the career turns of attempting to market massive sculptures instead of the ready market for smaller works such as busts, and in general gives moral support to a young artists struggling with seeking success.  We unfortunately do not have Andersen's responses here: the recipient of the letters' response is evident only in the subsequent letter critique from James.  These letters should be read for the elegant prose of Henry James and for a closer insight into his ambivalent sexuality that informs many of his novels.  Read this side by side with Toibin's wondrous novel, as a footnote to The Master.s side by side with Toibin's wondrous novel, as a footnote to The Master.	2004-09-14
523356:US	52496677	R16GRV20BAU79Y	0743250400	372341668	The Master	Books	5	71	74	N	Y	The Genesis Seeds of Genius: Meditating on Henry James	Colm Toibin's fine novel THE MASTER is an act of art in and of itself.  This is a well-researched biography of one of America's greatest novelists but it is also a novel, a great work of literature that sifts through all the extant data found in the copious letters between Henry James and his brother (the equally famous William James) and others of his family and acquaintances, other biographies, and the vast writings about this extraordinary family .  But what Toibin has achieved is more a dissection of the mind of a man who produced so many great books, showing us the gradual development of influences that, once digested, became such great books as 'The Turn of the Screw', 'The Portrait of a Lady', 'Washington Square', etc.  THE MASTER opens with the expatriate James' embarrassing failure as a playwright ('Guy Domville') while his compatriot Oscar Wilde is enjoying tremendous success in another nearby London theater.  This parallel plays significantly throughout the novel as a point of reference for James' periods of self doubt, fear of his own like sexual longings that ended Wilde's career in a famous trial, his odd transplantation from America to the United Kingdom and Italy, etc.  Toibin's novel (by inference of his chapter titles) takes place from 1895 to 1899, but using the flashback and flash forward technique we are privy to the whole history of the James family (the premiere intellectual family in the latter 19th century), Henry's childhood and avoidance of serving in the Civil War, and all of the famous people who surrounded him (and at times slept with him in the case of Oliver Wendell Holmes).  In a sensitive way, Toibin addresses the ambiguous sexuality of Henry, touching reverently and yet sensually on his platonic relationships with a manservant Hammond, his houseboy Burgess Noakes in Rye, England, and his magnetic attraction to the Norwegian sculptor Hendrik Andersen.  Yet Toibin devotes equal energy to exploring Henry's long-term friendship with the writer Constance Fenimore Woolson who committed suicide in his beloved Venice, his sister Alice who dies young and has a suggested lesbian relationship, Lady Wolseley who decorates his home in Rye, and his own brother William.  Along the way are hints and digressions about novels in gestation and in final form.  And as if this tome of information weren't enough to satisfy the reader, Toibin writes with such magnificent prose that the book literally sings.  \\"As an artist, he recognized, Andersen might know, or at least fathom the possibility, that each book he had written became an aspect of him, had entered into his driven spirit and lay there much as the years themselves had done.  His relationship with Constance would be hard to explain; Andersen was perhaps too young to know how memory and regret can mingle, how much sorrow can be held within, and how nothing seems to have any shape or meaning until it is past and lost and, even then, how much, under the weight of pure determination, can be forgotten and left aside only to return in the night as a piercing pain.\\"  And in the final chapter:  \\" 'The moral?' Henry thought for a moment. 'The moral is the most pragmatic we can imagine, that life is a mystery and that only sentences are beautiful, and that we must be ready for change, especially when we go to Paris, and that no one,' he said, raising his glass, 'who has known the sweetness of Paris can properly return to the sweetness of the United States.' \\"<br /><br />Erudite, elegant, and sensual.  Colm Toibin has mastered it all in this exceptional book.  Read it slowly - to absorb over a hundred years of history and the development of the intellect, and to savour the seeds of genius in a great mind.  Highly Recommended.e writer Constance Fenimore Woolson who committed suicide in his beloved Venice, his sister Alice who dies young and has a suggested lesbian relationship, Lady Wolseley who decorates his home in Rye, and his own brother William.  Along the way are hints and digressions about novels in gestation and in final form.  And as if this tome of information weren't enough to satisfy the reader, Toibin writes with such magnificent prose that the book literally sings.  \\"As an artist, he recognized, Andersen might know, or at least fathom the possibility, that each book he had written became an aspect of him, had entered into his driven spirit and lay there much as the years themselves had done.  His relationship with Constance would be hard to explain; Andersen was perhaps too young to know how memory and regret can mingle, how much sorrow can be held within, and how nothing seems to have any shape or meaning until it is past and lost and, even then, how much, under the weight of pure determination, can be forgotten and left aside only to return in the night as a piercing pain.\\"  And in the final chapter:  \\" 'The moral?' Henry thought for a moment. 'The moral is the most pragmatic we can imagine, that life is a mystery and that only sentences are beautiful, and that we must be ready for change, especially when we go to Paris, and that no one,' he said, raising his glass, 'who has known the sweetness of Paris can properly return to the sweetness of the United States.' \\" <br /> <br />Erudite, elegant, and sensual.  Colm Toibin has mastered it all in this exceptional book.  Read it slowly - to absorb over a hundred years of history and the development of the intellect, and to savour the seeds of genius in a great mind.  Highly Recommended.	2004-09-13
532883:US	52496677	R18CACT7MGFWPC	9057033216	580774766	Contemporary Art in Southern California	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	And after the passage of five years...	When Mark Johnstone's CONTEMPORARY ART IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA was first published in 1999, it was supposed to be a survey of the greats and the might-be greats in Southern California Artists. One of the reasons the book didn't enjoy wide popularity is because of the artists chosen to include, but more important the obvious giants that were excluded and not even mentioned. Five years later some of the 'greats' have faded into near obscurity and many of the might-be greats cannot be found in galleries or museums. But that is part of Johnstone's initial premise: great art does indeed exist outside New York City (especially in the culturally vital Los Angeles) and yet taste and trends are acceleratingly transient in this overmedia-ized part of the country. It would be a welcome addition to the current art book library to take another look at art in Southern California, this time including some of the giants in representational art excluded from this book. Johnstone seems to emphasize the artists on the edge rather than the well-schooled craftsmen who continue to challenge the mind and eye with a foot remaining on the academic ground. History, even if it is only five years worth, continues to teach us valuable lessons. And so does art!	2004-09-04
534449:US	52496677	RLC7FLK6R3DW5	1400042143	595064094	The Lemon Table: Stories	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	A Most Eloquent Collection of Stories About Life's Cycle	Julian Barnes is an elegant, profound, humorous,  sensitive, intelligent, and incredibly gifted writer!  THE LEMON TABLE is a collection of eleven short stories that probe the concept of aging and death in an endlessly inventive fashion.  Each of these well-crafted stories is unique: rarely have the concerns of the elderly been verbalized with such insight.  The way these characters who populate this variety of tales embody mental deterioration, illness, frustration of waning body functions, coping with changes imposed by the cycle of friends and loved ones dying - these are the insights that in Barnes capable hands are never cloying but revelatory. In 'Knowing French' an eighty something lady in a 'Old Folkery' corresponds with the author:  \\"Main reasons for dying: it's what others expect when you reach my age; impending decrepitude and senility; waste of money - using up inheritance - keeping together brain-dead incontinent bad of old bones; decreased interest in The News, famines, wars, etc.; fear of falling under total power of Sgt. Major; desire to Find Out about Afterwards (or not?).\\" Yet a later letter: \\"I suppose, if you are Mad, and you die, & there is an Explanation waiting, they have to make you unmad first before you can understand it. Or do you think being Mad is just another veil of consciousness around our present world which has nothing to do with any other one?\\"  Or in another story 'The Fruit Cage' a son is trying to understand the problems his aging parents face when after fifty years of marriage the husband wants to live with another woman; \\"Why make the assumption that the heart shuts down alongside the genitals?  Because we want - need - to see old age as a time of serenity?  I now think this is one of the great conspiracies of youth.  Not just of youth, but of middle age too, of every single year until that moment when we admit to being ourselves. And it's a wider conspiracy because the old collude in our belief.\\"<br /><br />Even though Barnes' subject of age and death may seem a morbid topic, these beautifully written stories have a wealth of humor and warmth and dreamy substance.  The final story relates a composer's inability to finish his 8th symphony (?Sibelius?) and uses symbols of death (the lemon, flying cranes) in a most poetic way.  This is one of the finest collections of short stories I've read this year.  Highly recommended on every level.nes' subject of age and death may seem a morbid topic, these beautifully written stories have a wealth of humor and warmth and dreamy substance.  The final story relates a composer's inability to finish his 8th symphony (?Sibelius?) and uses symbols of death (the lemon, flying cranes) in a most poetic way.  This is one of the finest collections of short stories I've read this year.  Highly recommended on every level.	2004-09-02
537891:US	52496677	R2SVXMD9KBVVMA	0595664679	972500834	Smiles and Cries	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Golden Heart Hidden In The Banal	SMILES AND CRIES is a collection of 86 very short poems by one LeRoy Robert Allen, a man who  through his life symbolizes the American Dream: he began is life in poverty, progressed through reformatories and a time with the Merchant Marines, and even was a smuggler of arms and people in the Far East,  but now he lives in wealth in Texas, the creator of Hawaiian penthouses and plantations.  The ideas for these poems reflect his mobility through his own life and his memories and expectations here written illicit admiration for a survivor.  Yet the poems themselves are basically rhyming couplets, incorporating slang and singsong manners that are more related to Hip Hop than to classical poetry.  Just when you think there may be a deep thought coming, it seems to slide by in words and rhymes that are written for effect. It would be good to see Allen just right in free form poetic fashion to see if his content can overcome his execution.	2004-08-31
541111:US	52496677	R1YDFNVJ4VBLN	0975546104	947635528	"I'm Staying with My Boys..." The Heroic Life of Sgt. John Basilone, USMC	Books	5	24	37	N	N	An Extraordinary Biography  and Full Frontal View of War	Author and Film Producer Jim Prosser has created a richly detailed, raptly written, devastatingly powerful book about the life of American War hero John Basilone.  This book is especially pungent at this time in history because it revives a lost tradition of the country's view of maritime heroism.  Since the atrocities of the Vietnam mistake to the present harrowing details of a similar (or worse) war in Iraq the concept of war is now very much in a negative light.  Even the words 'war hero' seem an oxymoron, so strident are the feelings about America's latest aggressions.  But to appreciate this fine book requires a return to the mindset of the US during World War II when not only was Europe under the vile threat of Hitler and Mussolini, but the Japanese  warriors were annihilating China, Korea, and ultimately the Philippines in the mission to own the Pacific Ocean.  And even in those early years the threat seemed frightening but distant until the Japanese successfully decimate the US Pacific Fleet on December 7, 1941.  That incident unified the country, creating a fighting force and support system at home that eventually resulted in the defeat of the massive evil outside the borders of the USA.<br /><br />Given that atmosphere of over a half century ago, author Proser has created one of the most convincing portraits of a military hero in literature.  And the intensively researched and detailed approach results in a biography that fully restores the ambience of WW II.  John Basilone was a nice Italian boy form Raritan, New Jersey, a lad who quit school to follow his recurring visions.  He caddied for Japanese businessmen at a country club, seeing in his prophetic mind that at some day he would be at war with Japan. After trying multiple jobs he finally enlists in the Army, makes the best of boot camp by gambling and boxing, and is shipped to the Philippines where he spent time waiting, boxing (becoming a champion nicknamed Manila John), running a little bar with his Island sweetheart, and finally returning home.  Frustrated once again with the boredom of work and the embarrassment of not having finished his education, Basilone finally returns to the military by signing on with the USMC, trains hard at Quantico, Cuba, and other US training camp swamps, and finally is shipped to Guadalcanal where his brilliance and dedication to his commanding officer (\\"Chesty\\" Puller) through one of the most devastating battles in the Pacific arena earned him not only the respect of his men, but also the Medal of Honor - the highest commendation offered by his country.  Returning home form this mission he ride the waves of adulation form the American people, hobnobs with movies stars, sells War Bonds, and falls in love, only to be shipped out once again to the Pacific where he is killed in action in the battle for Iwo Jima.<br /><br />The amazing (that is, ONE of the amazing) aspect of this book is that Proser has elected to write it in the first person of John Basilone.  Everything is told as Basilone perceives it, lives, feels, and survives it.  Rarely has a story been written with such clarity and perception:  we truly feel that Basilone has written his memoirs.  The language of the period is exactly right, the descriptions of the various battles and conditions of being a soldier under tremendously adverse conditions are vivid, and the soldiers' mentality of being in the thick of war are written with such bulls-eye focus that no matter what the reader's opinion of War might be, this book makes it all understandable form the point of view of the soldiers who fought.  Some of the battle passages are tough to read: \\"On October 23, a light tank and infantry attack across the mouth of the Matanikau ran right into the teeth of Vandegrift's defenses. It was chewed up in short order with over 600 Japs killed, many of them trapped in a jungle clearing where US tanks just drove over them instead of wasting ammunition.  They ground the poor bastards up like sausage under the tank treads until the entire clearing was covered in gore and left to rot in the sun.\\"  And a soldier's impressions: \\"We all heard a lot about the bravery of the Japanese soldier before we got on the island.  They were supposed to be the most fearless warriors ever to fight.  But I kept thinking what kind of bravery it was that sent them, one after the other, right into the same guns that mowed down dozens before them.  I don't know if that was bravery.  I don't know what it was.  Either they were crazy or they just didn't care.  So I didn't care either.  They weren't even men anymore.  They were dumb animals who wanted me dead and had killed all my friends.\\"<br /><br />Proser very cleverly weaves snippets of Iwo Jima from the opening of the book to its finish, which in an act of brilliance makes the whole story more pungent in retrospect.  There is little doubt the Sgt. John Basilone was an extraordinary soldier and military hero along with the thousands of others who lost their lives in the incomprehensibly vast WW II.  I think this is a very important book that everyone should read, and I say that as a pacifist, as a Vietnam Veteran convinced that war on any level is simply not an option.  This book is vastly important, well written, and contains a story and moment of history we all should face and incorporate.  And perhaps then we can all better empathize with soldiers form throughout history to the very present.  Recommended without reservation!ds up like sausage under the tank treads until the entire clearing was covered in gore and left to rot in the sun.\\"  And a soldier's impressions: \\"We all heard a lot about the bravery of the Japanese soldier before we got on the island.  They were supposed to be the most fearless warriors ever to fight.  But I kept thinking what kind of bravery it was that sent them, one after the other, right into the same guns that mowed down dozens before them.  I don't know if that was bravery.  I don't know what it was.  Either they were crazy or they just didn't care.  So I didn't care either.  They weren't even men anymore.  They were dumb animals who wanted me dead and had killed all my friends.\\" <br /> <br />Proser very cleverly weaves snippets of Iwo Jima from the opening of the book to its finish, which in an act of brilliance makes the whole story more pungent in retrospect.  There is little doubt the Sgt. John Basilone was an extraordinary soldier and military hero along with the thousands of others who lost their lives in the incomprehensibly vast WW II.  I think this is a very important book that everyone should read, and I say that as a pacifist, as a Vietnam Veteran convinced that war on any level is simply not an option.  This book is vastly important, well written, and contains a story and moment of history we all should face and incorporate.  And perhaps then we can all better empathize with soldiers form throughout history to the very present.  Recommended without reservation!	2004-08-27
552436:US	52496677	RW0VCUI3ZPGBG	039302038X	383299946	Strangers: Homosexual Love in the Nineteenth Century	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Thoroughly Satisfying Book by a Genuine Original Thinker!	STRANGERS: Homosexual Love in the Nineteenth Century as written with consummate skill and wit by Graham Robb is a fascinating insight about the history of homosexuality through the ages. Though particularly addressing the 19th Century, uncovering letters, notes, books, and facts vs. fiction by some of the more luminous writers and thinkers of that time, Robb takes multiple asides to Greece, the Middle Ages, and the centuries before his chosen example, allowing us to realize that Gay Rights Movements did NOT start in 1969 with Stonewall. His exploration of pan-sexuality includes the Church and spirituality in general, Medicine, Psychology, the fraternities and sororities, the balls and brothels, and private lives of Henry James, da Vinci, Ludwig II of Bavaria, Gide, Alexander the Great, Marcel Proust, Walt Whitman, Lord Byron, Shelley, Oscar Wilde et al,  Michelangelo etc without ever becoming just a book of gossip. Quite the contrary, this is serious literature, albeit written in an often hilarious tongue-in-cheek mode. Robb's main purpose seems to establish the fact that `homosexuality' has been around and popular for far longer than the historians, sociologists and physicians believe would have us believe: it is not a discovery dating to Kraft-Ebbing, Freud, or Hirschfield.  Read it for history, read it for stories about people you venerate, read it for historical information, read it as elegant prose, but by all means read this immensely successful book!	2004-08-18
558129:US	52496677	RTT40FBXXJ3UY	0595218431	368195914	Duck Blood Soup	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Enormously Successful Novel - despite the hype!	Some first novels bounce on to the scene so tainted with gimmicks to get the reading audience to buy that the reverse happens: committed readers tend to disdain jacket hype, breaking the code that if so much promo is necessary, then the content must be weak.Well, despite wading past the explosive star on the cover reading \\"Based on Actual Events\\", the preparatory misnomer that this book is \\"The Shocking Story of a Real Dr. Jekyl & Mr. Hyde\\", and someone's idea that adding the MD after the author's name would necessarily make folks buy this book, DUCK BLOOD SOUP wins out completely on its own as a finely written novel. The hype is distractingly unnecessary, because Joseph Molea (please, leave off the MD on a book that is a novel and not a textbook!) is an exceptionally gifted writer. He knows his way around his subject so thoroughly that every character he creates is wholly credible and meaningful to the flow of the story. Whether this information for writing comes from his life experiences makes very little difference since he writes so well. This is not a 'memoirs', though there may be 'actual events' herein. DUCK BLOOD SOUP is as fine a novel about addiction - to alcohol, to prescriptions drugs, to street drugs, to aberrant lifestyles, to conscience-prisons of dysfunctional families - you name it and the addictions are there. What makes this novel so terse is the fact that some of the addicts are physicians, and despite the newsy items about the frequency of drug abuse among, say, anesthesiologists, the general reading public finds it nigh on to impossible to believe that physicians are, after all, humans - humans that happen to be in a profession that is one of the most stressful in existence.But given all of that, Joseph Molea just plain writes well! The method in which he admixes his timeframes, divides his chapters, pauses for moments of past history (much like the patients who just happen to remember a clue of earth-shattering significance that evade the original medical history), and knows how to pick up all the incidental references from page one to the final page so that we have a sense of knowing all the facts, though the ending of the book lies open-ended. Molea is able to write about passion, about psychophysical phenomena that accompany the mind-altering drugs he injects into his characters, and about lingering pains of childhood that mold our future and demand attention before they destroy the adult form.One comes away from this exceptionally fine novel wishing the editor and publisher had spent more time on correcting spelling errors and unfinished words that occur far too frequently to ignore than on the distracting, wholly unnecessary and vapid hype. Joseph Molea is a physician, and from the jacket it seems he is a highly significant practitioner of his art (he is an addiction professional who teaches about substance abuse prevention, education, evaluation, and treatment in Florida). But the man who wrote this fine book is also a Writer and an Author and a wordsmith and a talent to watch. And that is more than enough! Read this book and you'll see why. Let's hope there are many more gestating in this writer's rich mind.inal medical history), and knows how to pick up all the incidental references from page one to the final page so that we have a sense of knowing all the facts, though the ending of the book lies open-ended. Molea is able to write about passion, about psychophysical phenomena that accompany the mind-altering drugs he injects into his characters, and about lingering pains of childhood that mold our future and demand attention before they destroy the adult form.One comes away from this exceptionally fine novel wishing the editor and publisher had spent more time on correcting spelling errors and unfinished words that occur far too frequently to ignore than on the distracting, wholly unnecessary and vapid hype. Joseph Molea is a physician, and from the jacket it seems he is a highly significant practitioner of his art (he is an addiction professional who teaches about substance abuse prevention, education, evaluation, and treatment in Florida). But the man who wrote this fine book is also a Writer and an Author and a wordsmith and a talent to watch. And that is more than enough! Read this book and you'll see why. Let's hope there are many more gestating in this writer's rich mind. <br />	2004-08-12
566123:US	52496677	R3KVZI5VS7ZCI0	0802788386	242956900	Fabulous Fluttering Tropical Butterflies	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of the Best in the Patent/Jubb Series of Books!	In a series of books that are placed in the &quot;Children's&quot; category, even when they are by the uniquely matched team of author Dorothy Hinshaw Patent and artist Kendahl Jan Jubb, there is usually a tendency for the initial impact to wear thin. Not so with FABULOUS FLUTTERING TROPICAL BUTTERFLIES! Patent writes with wisdom and excellent teaching skills, while Jubb is obviously in love with the subject. Jubb is a painter of nature and when required to include the human species in her works she is less successful. Oh, they LOOK like the people under scrutiny, but turn you attention to the actual butterflies and their various forms for morphing and you'll see the difference. This little book flies off the table with dazzling color: when Jubb is illustrating the owl butterflies of South America, she subtly includes paintings of owls to make her artistic point. And her phases of caterpillar to chrysalis to emerging butterfly are stunning. This little book reads well and is bound to be a favorite with children of all ages.	2004-08-04
566437:US	52496677	R1UR5MJTUU31W5	0802788629	434783952	Colorful, Captivating Coral Reefs	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Beautifully Illustrated, Smart Book for All Ages!	Though COLORFUL CAPTIVATING CORAL REEFS is geared toward school children from grades 1 - 4, this continuation of a series of sensitive, artful books by author Dorothy Hinshaw Patent and artist Kendahl Jan Jubb is a handy reference book for those of us who haven't a 'deep' knowledge about this topic - life on the sea floor.  The information here is valuable and straightforward in style.  The illustrations by the always resourceful Kendahl Jan Jubb are a delight.  She not only accompanies the text, she makes it dance!  And while her original watercolors on the subject of fish are far more rich and brilliant (and highly collectible), given the restrictions of the book format these pictures still come to life.  A good book for your coffee table - and nature study table.	2004-08-04
566515:US	52496677	R39DQNMNIXFEZJ	0385507615	400682657	Blackbird House	Books	5	25	26	N	N	For the Beauty of the Word	Alice Hoffman is a conjurer of prose.  She understands human frailty, vulnerability, self-conscious loathing of birth abnormalities, the need for feeling love, and other acts of living.  She writes about New England as well as anyone writing today - her pages are filled with visual stimuli that hang so closely to the retina that though they are often repeated (the color red as embodied by pears, berries, blood, leather, etc.), each repetition serves only to magnify the original richness of impulse.  BLACKBIRD HOUSE spans 200 odd years of life on Cape Cod, and while many are calling the chapters 'essays' or 'short stories', they seem more like a cohesive novel about the land and the endurance of the sea and time than anything so disjointed as individual stories.  Each of the chapters is connected and it is this connection of odd characters and their progeny that propels the reader nonstop from the early days of the colonies to the present.  Hoffman creates dark characters: pain, bruise, emotional devastation and fate are woven like a continuing tapestry, passed from generation to generation.  The seeds of all the characters, no matter from where they may be speaking (from the Cape, Boston, London, etc) all are firmly planted in the sweet peas, nettles and bramble that surround the sturdy house that makes the title.  Here are witching, blackbirds that become white like ghosts, the ocean, and every type of family dysfunctional unit imaginable.  BLACKBIRD HOUSE is not unlike the magical realism of our Latin American writers, but with a thoroughly American twist that makes it even more delicious!  An excellent book, this!	2004-08-04
571439:US	52496677	R9834C5NUKIJF	0970421044	998504609	Thirteen Ways to Water and Other Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fables, Foibles, and a touch of A Child's Garden of Verses!	Bruce Holland Rogers may be a writer new to the bookstores but his gifts as a short story teller and 'social philosopher' have been gracing the internet and literary journals for some time now.  At last we have a 'hold in your lap' collection of his collected short stories and it is a welcome addition to the library of anyone hungry for new talent!  Holland's writing style is succinct, free of wandering diversions, focused on the main point of a tale as all good short stories should be, and enjoys a rather wide spectrum of topics.  He seems to favor the technique of re-telling fables or stories we may have heard, dozing off to sleep in the sanctity of our childhood memories, placing them in  quirky contemporary settings that for the most part are successful.  But recasting fables can become wearing, if that is all there is to a book, and Holland recognizes this and serves us stories of such odd diversity as  Vietnam flashbacks, Golf, marauders in communication with Chief Seattle, cats as comrades, etc.  Holland is at once funny, tender, insightful, and always creative.  There is one aspect of this book that may be part of Holland's style but that to this reader is distracting:  for some reason he finds it necessary to provide us with a paragraph on a separate opening page before each story as though he needed to explain what is in store.  Really good stories (such as these) stand solidly on their own and intros (such as these) can spoil the effect.  Perhaps a general introduction at the beginning of the collection would accomplish the same end and would not disrupt the joy of progressing through this thoroughly entertaining group of shorties.	2004-07-30
573464:US	52496677	R1VENQ52QM55G5	0312329032	259424112	Carl Melcher Goes to Vietnam	Books	5	14	16	N	N	EVERYMAN and War: The Sanctity of the Human Spirit	CARL MELCHER GOES TO VIETNAM is about as unlikely a title for a book as one can imagine. It sounds like a running byline in a newspaper, or a children's 'learn about this' story, or something that borders on corny.  But after reading Paul Clayton's very strong novel, the title could not seem more apt.  This is the tale of a lad from Philadelphia who enters the military in the late 1960's when the nation was at war in Vietnam and the kids of that generation were being eaten by induction into training camps then shipped via classy commercial airlines to Vietnam where they adapted to one of the ugliest wars in our history: Vietnam was an enormous mistake and the young men sent there to die or serve their year In Country  returned home with either physical or indelible mental wounds.  Making the narrator of this book (that is so very real a look at that war called Vietnam) a simple, nondescript person brings a powerful Everyman theme to the book.  Carl Melcher lands in Vietnam without much in the way of history, he likes to read Hermann Hesse, he gets along with most everyone despite the ethnic barriers superimposed on the inductees - he just wants to survive.  Clayton creates a group of likeable characters, gives them time to bond, and then begins to send them out on patrols where slowly most everyone is consumed by the greed of the war effort.  There is no beginning or end to this story and that is so sensitive on the part of Clayton, a man who gathered his information form his own tour of duty in the Nam.  He writes in straight forward, simple prose, much the way one would expect Carl Melcher to observe the world.  Unlike most authors who have written about the Vietnam experience, Clayton shies away from the crude expletives that served as pan-communication in Vietnam: there are few curse words (the common language then) and the writing almost benefits from this trait.  Some of the African American characters have their persistent phrases that Clayton uses with both solid humor and intense agony.  By keeping his story so free of 'special effects drama' the tragedies are more tragic, the moments of camaraderie are more true.  This is a war story that concentrates more on the indomitable human spirit than on 'strike and fall back' episodes.  Not that the brutality and hideous waste that abounded in Vietnam are not addressed: they are very present and terrifyingly memory jolting.  Clayton, I think, prefers to give us a version of what war does to the young people of the world.  Writing in this manner he gives us one of the more subtle and lasting antiwar novels in some years.  Highly Recommended!solid humor and intense agony.  By keeping his story so free of 'special effects drama' the tragedies are more tragic, the moments of camaraderie are more true.  This is a war story that concentrates more on the indomitable human spirit than on 'strike and fall back' episodes.  Not that the brutality and hideous waste that abounded in Vietnam are not addressed: they are very present and terrifyingly memory jolting.  Clayton, I think, prefers to give us a version of what war does to the young people of the world.  Writing in this manner he gives us one of the more subtle and lasting antiwar novels in some years.  Highly Recommended!	2004-07-28
578234:US	52496677	R1HHY0F5FLEODP	0974575011	849807869	.Thinketh: As A Man Thinketh Beautifully Designed for the Internet Age	Books	5	6	9	N	N	'Much madness is divinest sense to a discerning eye'	This hallowed quotation from the penulitmately creative writings of Emily Dickinson succinctly describes the passionate volume GOODBYE GUTENBERG: HELLO TO A NEW GENERATION OF READERS AND WRITERS, a zealot's call to revolution in creating books of significance for the 21st Century by the enormously gifted Valerie Kirschenbaum. Armed with a background armour of teaching students in midcity Bayard Rustin High School for Humanities in Manhattan, having struggled with the youthful products of the visual generation influenced by television, video games, music videos, wildly mad animation feature films - Kirschenbaum came upon the idea that kids got bored with the written word, the blocks of black and white monotonous words that failed to generate not only their attention but also their hunger to learn.<br /><br /> Valerie Kirschenbaum has created a book of enormous visual beauty matched only by the scholarly investigation of her premise that Gutenberg's invention of the press may well have made books more readily available through mass production, but the advent of the mechanical press all but destroyed the magical magnificence of illuminated manuscripts that are now relegated to museums. Kirschenbaum proposes the idea of utilizing our most sophisiticated technology now widely available to everyone - the Computer with all of its abilities to extract creativity from the person at the keyboard - to make books in color, employ design, assimilate art, import images and treasures from the past, all with the endpoint of energizing students of all ages to rediscover the joy of reading.<br /><br /> Spend many hours with this fascinating book and find yourself not only completely absorbed in Kirschenbaum's 'novel' concept, but utterly mesmerized with the various areas of investigation she offers to support her discovery. Here, lavishly designed and richly colorful and cleverly written, are chapters addressing neuroscientific postulates about brain cell receptor sites that tie visual stimuli to emotional response, explorations of Egyptian and Mayan hieroglyphics, Greek and Roman scrolls, Sanskrit, Chinese, Islamic, and Hindu writings and visualizations of the Divine, analyses of fonts and the Male Domain of book production, the philosophies of Plato, Nietzsche, Descartes, Wittgenstein et al, the paintings of van Gogh, Rubens, Raphael, Michelangelo, the writings of Emily Dickinson, William Blake, Proust, Joyce, Dickens, and numerous other discoveries such as the life and art of Christine de Pisan!<br /><br /> While it is obvious that Kirschenbaum has thoroughly researched the material for her book, she still manages to write in a manner so communicative, so warmly personal, yet so infectiously passionate that it is not possible to avoid falling under her spell! She is a consummate Teacher, a richly imaginative designer, and a compassionate human being. And if it sounds as though this description of GOODBYE GUTENBERG covers more territory than you can believe, then just explore this wondrous volume for yourself: there is far more here for your absorption and continued pleasure than the space of a review permits telling. Toward the end of her book (written by the way in her own designed elegant font!), she shares this: &quot;My journey has been, I am sure, full of errors and omissions. But I hope that younger, more gifted souls will forgive them and see in my pages the seeds of a beautiful new future.&quot; &quot;..to write in the vernacular today is to choose not only the right words, but also the right colors and the right designs. Our vernacular is visual. Soon our books will be visual, too.&quot;<br /><br /> From the stance of one committed to the arts, this book is a revelation. Read it for the discovery itself, for the sheer beauty of design and content, for the product of a successful dreamer. This book will be around for a long time as an aid to teachers, readers and other disciples of Valerie Kirschenbaum!tie visual stimuli to emotional response, explorations of Egyptian and Mayan hieroglyphics, Greek and Roman scrolls, Sanskrit, Chinese, Islamic, and Hindu writings and visualizations of the Divine, analyses of fonts and the Male Domain of book production, the philosophies of Plato, Nietzsche, Descartes, Wittgenstein et al, the paintings of van Gogh, Rubens, Raphael, Michelangelo, the writings of Emily Dickinson, William Blake, Proust, Joyce, Dickens, and numerous other discoveries such as the life and art of Christine de Pisan! <br />  <br /> While it is obvious that Kirschenbaum has thoroughly researched the material for her book, she still manages to write in a manner so communicative, so warmly personal, yet so infectiously passionate that it is not possible to avoid falling under her spell! She is a consummate Teacher, a richly imaginative designer, and a compassionate human being. And if it sounds as though this description of GOODBYE GUTENBERG covers more territory than you can believe, then just explore this wondrous volume for yourself: there is far more here for your absorption and continued pleasure than the space of a review permits telling. Toward the end of her book (written by the way in her own designed elegant font!), she shares this: &quot;My journey has been, I am sure, full of errors and omissions. But I hope that younger, more gifted souls will forgive them and see in my pages the seeds of a beautiful new future.&quot; &quot;..to write in the vernacular today is to choose not only the right words, but also the right colors and the right designs. Our vernacular is visual. Soon our books will be visual, too.&quot; <br />  <br /> From the stance of one committed to the arts, this book is a revelation. Read it for the discovery itself, for the sheer beauty of design and content, for the product of a successful dreamer. This book will be around for a long time as an aid to teachers, readers and other disciples of Valerie Kirschenbaum!	2004-07-24
580663:US	52496677	R2686I21XFC59R	0767913981	594225595	On the Down Low: A Journey into the Lives of 'Straight' Black Men Who Sleep with Men	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Sensitive, Informative Book	ON THE DOWN LOW by JL King is a well-written book about a &quot;Secret&quot; in the African American community that is creating a close evaluation of the increasing HIV/AIDS crisis among African American women and men. Part candid memoir, part thoughtful researched 'expose', this book could provide some significant changes in the quality of life and battle against HIV as it seems to be addressed to a large reading audience. And for that reason it is wise to recommend it to readers.<br /><br /> The Down Low (or DL as it is abbreviated) refers to the secretive acting out of bisexual needs of some African American males, a group of men that is far wider spread than previously thought possible according to the author, himself a 'recovering DL'. The sexual needs to act out bisexuality is, from the author's interviews, research, and public speaking engagements, pandemic among African American men spanning age groups from teenagers through grandfathers, professional men, clerics, teachers, politicians, through blue collar workers and even 'thugs'. JL King addresses his information to African American women who may be 'victims' of the DL men, stressing the fact that most DL activity is unprotected random sex acts that could and has lead to bringing home STDs and HIV. His case presentation is thoughtful and alarming. King is obviously a man of strong religious background and he is also pleading with the churches - so central to African American culture - to address not only his issues but to open the arms of acceptance to its gay congregation, hoping to remove the stigma that drives men with bisexual cravings into secrecy.<br /><br /> This is an important and brave book, but one hopes that JL King will write a second volume that more closely examines the actual traits of the DL men. He is very careful to point out that not ALL African American men are on the DL, but he hedges in actually investigating the psyches of homophilic drives and acting out of the men on the DL. After reading the book it is obvious that JL King has focused on a current topic of importance: Bisexuality is now more accepted as a variation of human sexuality and is present is all men no matter their ethnic background. This is reflected in the media, literature, movies, TV, etc. And perhaps King's fine book will be one more door opening on the new vision of human sexuality that will reduce prejudices at many levels.r reading the book it is obvious that JL King has focused on a current topic of importance: Bisexuality is now more accepted as a variation of human sexuality and is present is all men no matter their ethnic background. This is reflected in the media, literature, movies, TV, etc. And perhaps King's fine book will be one more door opening on the new vision of human sexuality that will reduce prejudices at many levels.	2004-07-21
585858:US	52496677	R14UOKIU8IDS79	0345441419	785773306	You Remind Me of Me	Books	5	4	8	N	N	A Meditation on Life, Death, and the Meaning of it All	Everything promised in Dan Chaon's short stories in the cherished AMONG THE MISSING collection comes to full fruition in this incandescent novel YOU REMIND ME OF ME. Without question Dan Chaon is emerging as one of the more important writers of the 21st Century, so gifted is he at creating unique characters and then guiding them through the crusty terrain of the earth in search of the meaning of existence.  He is a consummate storyteller, a master of the English language, and a social observer along the lines of the greatest thinking writers of the last century.<br />YOU REMIND ME OF ME, significantly distilled, is the story of two men who share the same biological mother Nora, a woman so fragile that at age 16 she gives the first born son (Troy) for adoption, never marries, keeps her next son (Jonah) born four years later, only to descend into mental illness and guilt of her actions with her first born son and the disaster of her second born  being mauled to death by her dog, reviving as though resurrected to a life of physical distortion and loneliness. Thus separated by Nora's decisions, the two boys grow into adulthood without significant direction: Jonah fears relationships because of his physical scarring creating a self concept of appearing a  beast and spends his youth as a loner,  while Troy's adoptive parents disintegrate, allowing him to bond with a young couple who introduce him to the life of drugs, and his downward swirl ends in a life as a bartender, divorced from a junkie wife and left with a son (Loomis). Jonah longs for the 'brother' he never knew and after Nora's suicide he strikes out to find his only blood relative.  All of this happens on the plains of middle America - St. Bonaventure, Nebraska and Little Bow, South Dakota - and Dan Chaon knows these vast stretches of lonely terrain and the isolation of small prairie towns well.  He uses the places like a stretched sheet over a morgue bench to dissect the fragile lives of his characters and the folk who populate these spaces. It seems as though reducing the matrix of the novel to such places erases the distractions of life so that he can meditate on the important things.  &quot;The true terror, Jonah thought, the true mystery of life was not that we all are going to die, but that we were all born, that we were all once little babies like this, unknowing and slowly reeling in the world, gathering it loop by loop like a ball of string. The true terror was that we once didn't exist, and then, through no fault of our own, we had to.&quot;  And the thoughts come not only from the young men but from the life experiences of the elderly, such as Judy - the grandmother of Troy's son Loomis: &quot; She is aware of herself dividing.  There is a reasonable self, floating above her perception, a practical mind that observes the sensual organism.  She is aware of herself as muscle and fat wrapped in a damp skin, aware of herself as a dry, yellow-tasting tongue, aware of the matrix of sounds that spreads out from the center point of her body, the interstate of blood moving, the grasping tendrils of the spirit, seeking purchase.&quot;<br />The story progresses to Jonah's finding Troy, desperately seeking connection to someone, finding that connection through  distorted lies about his life that promise a bond with Troy, and the manner in which the earlier referenced 'baby' (Loomis) provides that bond is the odd resolution of this engrossing tale.  Jonah's desperate need to connect with Troy finds words from a inebriate mouth: &quot;People seem to think it's all either nature or nurture, or some combination, but you know what?  I think it's even worse than that. It's all...random.  It's all chaos and luck and whether you're like...stupid and cowlike , like YOU, or else you have some inkling of how deluded it all is.&quot;  These searchings for meaning close the book in a flashback to the time when Nora was in labor with Jonah:  &quot;It's hard to believe that this is how it's done.  That this is how we get here into the world, by accident or design, the microscopic pieces of ourselves bourne by fluids and blood and growing into a tiny kingdom of cells inside someone else's body.  It seems so difficult to become alive.  So improbable.&quot;  &quot;How can you be alive when every choice you make breaks the world into a thousand filaments, each careless step branching into long tributaries of alternate lives, shuddering outward and outward like sheet lightning.&quot;<br />Yet in addition to all of the profoundly philosophical diversions Chaon writes, he is also deeply concerned with his characters - ALL of them - like the guardian of a small town of disparate citizens, each of whom has a semblance of life  and each of whom finds validation from each other.  He makes the beauty of nature visual with his poetry, he uses subtle techniques of style to enhance the momentum of how he unfolds the depth of his story, and he leaves us inextricably bonded to some of the most memorable characters you are likely to encounter in any author's books.  Savour this jewel of a book with a slow and addictive read.  Dan Chaon has the gift.it's done.  That this is how we get here into the world, by accident or design, the microscopic pieces of ourselves bourne by fluids and blood and growing into a tiny kingdom of cells inside someone else's body.  It seems so difficult to become alive.  So improbable.&quot;  &quot;How can you be alive when every choice you make breaks the world into a thousand filaments, each careless step branching into long tributaries of alternate lives, shuddering outward and outward like sheet lightning.&quot;<br />Yet in addition to all of the profoundly philosophical diversions Chaon writes, he is also deeply concerned with his characters - ALL of them - like the guardian of a small town of disparate citizens, each of whom has a semblance of life  and each of whom finds validation from each other.  He makes the beauty of nature visual with his poetry, he uses subtle techniques of style to enhance the momentum of how he unfolds the depth of his story, and he leaves us inextricably bonded to some of the most memorable characters you are likely to encounter in any author's books.  Savour this jewel of a book with a slow and addictive read.  Dan Chaon has the gift.	2004-07-17
596565:US	52496677	R2SHPA91UY6KJS	0316919810	392375238	Oblivion: Stories	Books	3	2	4	N	N	An Acquired Taste	David Foster Wallace is a unique writer and has developed a following who seem enchanted with the emperor's new clothes. That is in no way a put-down:  there are many writers who have a style of writing that appeals to certain readers and not others, and  that does not discount those writers' gifts.  For example, there are many readers who have yet to wade through all the volumes of Marcel Proust's &quot;A la Recherche du Temps Perdu (In Search of Lost Time),&quot; or have struggled through James Joyce's &quot;Ulysses&quot; or &quot;Finnegan's Wake&quot; , or have been frustrated with TS Eliot's phrasing, Virginia Wolff's and Gertrude Stein's styles, etc.  My frustration with reading David Foster Wallace in general, and OBLIVION in particular, is that it all seems so self indulgent.  Yes, we all love to be challenged into following thought lines that meander for pages, sometimes as a single sentence, if the thought pursued is additive.  Wallace is obviously bright and is most assuredly clever and can write hilarious insights into the foibles of living in 2004.  Some of these stories are uncommonly terse and complete: &quot;Incarnations of Burned Children&quot; is a masterpiece of short story development in a matter of a few dense pages.  But for the most part, for this reader, Wallace puts us on a roller coaster ride that feels more like an intellectual sideshow gag than one concerned with a story.  &quot;Mister Squishy&quot; is more a novella that just doesn't seem to know how to get where it wants to go.  Yes, a healthy dollop of patience and indulgence and extended periods of time will uncover some excellent wordsmithing, but Wallace is an acquired taste.  I just haven't acquired it.	2004-07-09
600507:US	52496677	R37U90MVD8LV2H	0974363677	241033046	Chasin' It	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Brave and Very Talented Author!	Tony Lindsay is a gifted writer.  This is the first of his books I have read, but if CHASIN' IT is any indication of what this man can write, then he deserves our attention.  Brave, he is, taking on an entire novel about the underbelly of society and creating a novel so engrossing that it is almost impossible to put it down once started.<br />While many other very fine authors have written about street life and made credible characters, few have pushed that genre as close to the edge as Tony Lindsay.  Terri, the main character, is male who has always perceived himself as a female.  He just happens to have been born to a drug addicted prostitute who in turn was mothered by another drug addicted prostitute and Madame, and all along his fascinating life of being a street whore, an 'exotic dancer', a crack head, a thief, a prison inmate, and a murderer, Terri is a survivor.  Chicago's mean streets are the background for this story and Lindsay writes so vividly that he must have done extensive research into not only places, atmospheres, lighting, streets, houses, etc, but also the street types and gangsters that run the grunge locale.  Lindsay tells his story of the life of Terri in wholly believable flash backs and forward sequences in a style that is the equal of the best writers.  In novels of this sort the tendency is to allow them to become picaresque pulp fiction, each page challenging the reader's ability to stomach more grit.  But somehow Lindsay tells it all with such natural candor that the story just propels along, 'chasing it'!  Every one of his characters is completely three-dimensional: they become people we would recognize if we met them on a night street in the surly neighborhoods of any big city.  But another big difference in Lindsay's gift as a writer is that he can create a main character who is a cross-dressing black male and never even come close to making him vulgar or repulsive or used or off the wall.  No matter your previous perceptions of transgender people, gays, blacks of the Down Low, addicts, pimps, etc, Lindsay will take you on a ride you will not want to end.  This is a motion picture waiting to be made.  If only there were film directors with the courage of Tony Lindsay.....  This book is an exciting piece, even if you happen to shy away from the darker side of life.  Lindsay lets us understand and respect a culture we have never before known! Bravo!gender people, gays, blacks of the Down Low, addicts, pimps, etc, Lindsay will take you on a ride you will not want to end.  This is a motion picture waiting to be made.  If only there were film directors with the courage of Tony Lindsay.....  This book is an exciting piece, even if you happen to shy away from the darker side of life.  Lindsay lets us understand and respect a culture we have never before known! Bravo!	2004-07-07
608994:US	52496677	R3D6MEIY6KWYRA	1592400876	436381860	Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation	Books	4	0	3	N	N	For Sheer Enjoyment of the English Language	EATS, SHOOTS &amp; LEAVES is a little breath of fresh air and while it does not seem a book that merits all the hype it is receiving, it is most certainly an entertaining read and an embarrassing reminder to those of us who write and read (or is that &quot;read, and write&quot;?) that punctuation is a notable contributor to the success or failure of the written word.  How many times have we been stopped cold in the progress of an interesting tale when we are confronted with punctuation errors that are so glaringly wrong that the thought processes collapse?<br />Lynne Truss is a fine writer and has found a means to capture our attention (and funny bone) on a subject no one has previously had the insight to address.  In a time when creative writing - poetry and fiction and non-fiction - in this country relies heavily on its own rules, a time when writers often completely ignore grammatical rules for effect, this little volume brings a bit of Anglophilic mirth.  Editors alert!  Recommended reading.	2004-06-30
612808:US	52496677	RIUTZ15K5X0CT	0674012933	192062848	The Gardens of Emily Dickinson	Books	5	27	28	N	N	"Beauty crowds me till I die"	Emily Dickinson continues to fascinate the literary world, not only because of her unique, eerily beautiful poetry, but also because of the delicious mystery that cocoons her life well over one hundred years after her death.  Some have painted her as a looney eccentric, some as a recluse shrouded in sexual ecstasy: she has been seen on theatre stages throughout the world as the Belle of Amherst, and her works have been incorporated into songs and symphonies - the most poignant being John Adams' \\"Harmonium\\".<br />Yet few investigators have the quaint, informed pique as the highly admired Dickinson scholar, Judith Farr.  This book THE GARDENS OF EMILY DICKINSON maintains the level of biographic study that began with her THE PASSION OF EMILY DICKINSON in 1994 and continued with the elegant, aptly eccentric epistolary novel I NEVER CAME TO YOU IN WHITE in 1996. Like the previous books, Farr does not confine her writing to academia (though she obviously has consumed every bit of available information on her subject and footnoted these books extensively): Farr prefers to open doors and windows of imagination to make the factual data supplied have a semblance to the radiance of Dickinson's gifts to posterity.<br />During Emily Dickinson's lifetime (1830 - 1886) the poet was better know for her commitment to the oh-so-proper Victorian art of gardening. Books on Botany from that period held dominion over reading tables and bookshelves and Dickinson was as astute a garden scholar as the best of them. Flowers are frequently referenced in her poetry, her letters, her life, and Farr has used this other half of Dickinson's life as a means to explore the meanings of her poems.  'Flowers - Well - if anybody/Can extasy define -/Half a transport - half a trouble -/With which flowers humble men:...'  She divides her writings into chapters 'Gardening in Eden' (the more spiritual aspect of the garden), 'The Woodland Garden' (the exploration of her natural garden on the grounds of the Homestead in Amherst, Massachusetts), 'The Enclosed Garden' (the conservatory where exotic looms were coddled), and 'The Garden in the Brain'.  In each of these chapters Farr takes almost every reference to flowers in Dickinson's poems and discusses their significance both herbally and philosophically and passionately.  The characters that played significant roles in Dickinson's odd life are all addressed (Susan Dickinson, Bowles, Higginson, etc) by referencing letters to and poems about each , and each bit of evidence breathes floral dimensions.  Almost as an intermission to this theatrical diversion, Farr has placed a chapter by Louise Carter \\"Gardening with Emily Dickinson\\" which is well written and serves to ground the ongoing growing tales of the Belle of Amherst with a sophisticated diversion on the techniques of the Victorian Gardener - a chapter which could easily find its way into all Garden books!  And aptly, in a manner that would no doubt find Dickinson's approval, Farr ends her book with an Epilogue, which indeed places all of her information in perspective and is enlightening to both the scholar and the occasional reader of the Poetry of Emily Dickinson.  Judith Farr is a solid scholar, a fine writer, and if at times she cannot resist the tendency to 'personalize' her data, then that is merely her style and for this reader is only additive.  The preface page of her book quotes the words of Thomas Wentworth Higginson: \\"There is no conceivable/beauty of blossom/so beautiful as words -/none so graceful,/none so perfumed.\\"  This lovely thought is a fitting introduction to the writing of Judith Farr, too. I wonder which aspect of Emily Dickinson she will explore next....mestead in Amherst, Massachusetts), 'The Enclosed Garden' (the conservatory where exotic looms were coddled), and 'The Garden in the Brain'.  In each of these chapters Farr takes almost every reference to flowers in Dickinson's poems and discusses their significance both herbally and philosophically and passionately.  The characters that played significant roles in Dickinson's odd life are all addressed (Susan Dickinson, Bowles, Higginson, etc) by referencing letters to and poems about each , and each bit of evidence breathes floral dimensions.  Almost as an intermission to this theatrical diversion, Farr has placed a chapter by Louise Carter \\"Gardening with Emily Dickinson\\" which is well written and serves to ground the ongoing growing tales of the Belle of Amherst with a sophisticated diversion on the techniques of the Victorian Gardener - a chapter which could easily find its way into all Garden books!  And aptly, in a manner that would no doubt find Dickinson's approval, Farr ends her book with an Epilogue, which indeed places all of her information in perspective and is enlightening to both the scholar and the occasional reader of the Poetry of Emily Dickinson.  Judith Farr is a solid scholar, a fine writer, and if at times she cannot resist the tendency to 'personalize' her data, then that is merely her style and for this reader is only additive.  The preface page of her book quotes the words of Thomas Wentworth Higginson: \\"There is no conceivable/beauty of blossom/so beautiful as words -/none so graceful,/none so perfumed.\\"  This lovely thought is a fitting introduction to the writing of Judith Farr, too. I wonder which aspect of Emily Dickinson she will explore next....	2004-06-27
619719:US	52496677	R3BONHF6HZLOOR	1593760175	665339178	For the Beauty of the Earth: Birding, Opera, and Other Journeys	Books	5	8	8	N	N	In praise of simple things	Thomas Urquhart is a 'rara avis' - a true intellect who has used his skills in scholastic research, personal avocations of reading great literature, studying languages, the many faces of music and poetry, and bird watching to create a book that defies description.  FOR THE BEAUTY OF THE EARTH: BIRDING, OPERA AND OTHER JOURNEYS is not a memoir in the dictionary sense of the word.  Yes, these are shared observations by a Naturalist who has visited his native England, Mali, Provence, Italy and America (now his home) and simply absorbed all the natural, at times rapidly disappearing, beauty of nature.  For the reader who must have linear writing to enjoy a book, then this beautifully written volume is still accessible by reading only a chapter at a time. All of Urquhart's 'journeys' are descriptive of place, of people, of customs, of history, of local and universal mythology, of all the music in the songs of birds and the symphonies of natural wonders. While he celebrates and guides us a fellow travelers to embrace the wonders of the earth, he gently encourages us to heed his warnings.  &quot;...we have yet to internalize our recent discovery that the earth is fragile and finite.  Although our ancestors understood how to live in nature far better than we do, they had not discovered this important fact...The  scale of the disconnect between how we have conceived of the earth in cultural memory and just how much we need it now to support our species for the future is beginning to sink in.  It is a chasm we must cross before we are pushed over the edge by the demons we have unleashed in our wake.&quot;  &quot;..our natural systems are at once source, symbol and symptom of our quality of life;  their wise stewardship must be the standard by which any government is judged.&quot; Yet Urquhart,  for all his convictions that we must preserve our natural resources, does not preach to us in this book. His primary concern is to awaken in us a renaissance of the wonder of nature.  Walking the Provencal countryside he muses, &quot;The play of pagan and Christian, nature and man is finally distilled into pure delight, a whimsical descant that decorates the physical testimony of the timeless dance of man and the earth.&quot; Along his travels he has many diversions into his appreciation for the symphonies and songs of Gustav Mahler, the Ring cycle of Richard Wagner, Schubert and other composers whose music holds evidence of the naturalist's view, poets and writers. Urquhart's knowledge of the density of  history, language, mythology, botany and ornithology of his visited places is astonishing.  There is more to learn in this volume of musings than in libraries of dry reference books.  Why?  In his words, &quot;I have searched all my life for a practice that would allow me to celebrate Earth and nature as they deserve, to penetrate their wonders in the least branch, pool or leaf.  It is a personal quest for something ecstatic or revelatory, something that will make my cheeks tingle or bring tears to my eyes.&quot;  This lovingly and eloquently written diary of the earth is a joy to read and is food for thought as our society continues to chomp large bites out of hte earth's crust and atmosphere. Thomas Urquhart  is a poet, a philosopher, and a simple birdwatcher with a profound message.  Everyone should read this treasure!Walking the Provencal countryside he muses, &quot;The play of pagan and Christian, nature and man is finally distilled into pure delight, a whimsical descant that decorates the physical testimony of the timeless dance of man and the earth.&quot; Along his travels he has many diversions into his appreciation for the symphonies and songs of Gustav Mahler, the Ring cycle of Richard Wagner, Schubert and other composers whose music holds evidence of the naturalist's view, poets and writers. Urquhart's knowledge of the density of  history, language, mythology, botany and ornithology of his visited places is astonishing.  There is more to learn in this volume of musings than in libraries of dry reference books.  Why?  In his words, &quot;I have searched all my life for a practice that would allow me to celebrate Earth and nature as they deserve, to penetrate their wonders in the least branch, pool or leaf.  It is a personal quest for something ecstatic or revelatory, something that will make my cheeks tingle or bring tears to my eyes.&quot;  This lovingly and eloquently written diary of the earth is a joy to read and is food for thought as our society continues to chomp large bites out of hte earth's crust and atmosphere. Thomas Urquhart  is a poet, a philosopher, and a simple birdwatcher with a profound message.  Everyone should read this treasure!	2004-06-22
623815:US	52496677	R27BC0RWXA73CK	0060576057	282010593	Death in Venice	Books	5	38	41	N	N	A New Translation: DEATH IN VENICE more radiant than ever!	For those legions of readers who consider Thomas Mann's DEATH IN VENICE one of the pinnacles of 20th Century literature, welcome to the feast!  Michael Henry Heim has restudied and again translated this brief but poignant novella with an English version more in tune with Mann's novella and certainly, finally free from all the societal homophobic restrictions that have shrouded previous translations.  This is the  tale of a writer - Gustav von Aschenbach - in his fifties who feels the need for exotic travels to break his writer's block,  and after many aborted attempts to find the right place, comes to Venice and not only falls under its spell but also finds his sublimated desires for pure beauty as focused on young men awakened in his encounter with the young Polish boy Tadzio.  This story has been translated into other languages, transformed into film by Luchino Visconti and made into the last opera of Sir Benjamin Britten.  But though the simple story has captivated our minds for many years, it has never been presented in so eloquent a fashion as in this Heim translation.  To wit: \\"On a personal level, too, art is life intensified: it delights more deeply, consumes more rapidly; it engraves the traces of imaginary and intellectual adventure on the countenance of its servant and in the long run, for all the monastic calm of his external existence, leads to self-indulgence, over refinement, lethargy, and a restless curiosity that a lifetime of wild passions and pleasures could scarcely engender.\\"  When he first encounters Tadzio \\"...he was infused with a paternal affection, the attraction that one who begets beauty by means of self-sacrifice [a writer] feels for one who is inherently beautiful.\\" And \\"Was it not common knowledge that the sun diverts our attention from the intellectual to the sensual?  It benumbs and bewitches both reason and memory such that the soul in its  elation quite forgets its true nature and clings with rapt delight to the fairest of sun-drenched objects, nay, only with the aid of the corporeal can it ascend to more lofty considerations.\\"<br />Once von Aschenbach accepts the fact that he is in love with the idea of Tadzio he sets about to quash rumors of the threat that cholera is invading Venice to keep his Polish lad from leaving the city (and von Aschenbach) with his family.  \\"Thus the addled traveler could no longer think or care about anything but pursuing unrelentingly the object that had so inflamed him, dreaming of him in his absence, and, as is the lover's wont, speaking tender words to his mere shadow.  Loneliness, the foreign environment, and the joy of a belated and profound exhilaration prompted him, persuaded him to indulge without shame or remorse in the most distasteful behavior, as when returning from Venice [to the Lido] late one evening he had paused at the beautiful boy's door on the second floor of the hotel and pressed his forehead against the hinge in drunken rapture, unable to tear himself away even at the risk of being discovered and caught.\\"<br />Has Heim 'changed' Mann's story in to a more titillating one? No, indeed not! But he has rescued it from the mere Apollonian/Dionysian rhetoric with which  other translations have cloaked the sensual aspects of the story.  Here von Aschenbach becomes a fully three-dimensional character, one whose life up to the entry into Venice is understood and appreciated as a writer of brilliance, and one whose epiphany of the Eros submerged in this intellectual psyche blossoms in the most credible, tender way that far from being transformed into a 'pedophile', he is instead in that wondrous plane where awakened emotions of love and longing dwell.<br />Michael Cunningham has written a beautiful introduction to this new translation and, as we have come to expect from this contemporary gifted man of letters, his words are warm and befitting his admiration for this work by Thomas Mann.  This is a book to be read and read again, and should you have other versions of DEATH IN VENICE in your library, that is all the more reason to pleasure your mind with the genius of this translation.  Highly recommended!er versions of DEATH IN VENICE in your library, that is all the more reason to pleasure your mind with the genius of this translation.  Highly recommended!	2004-06-19
633790:US	52496677	RDBZ7M6BSLMCX	1568543387	496884421	Letter to Artists (Meeting House Essays)	Books	3	4	8	N	N	A beginning	Pope John Paul II wrote a LETTER TO ARTISTS on the occasion of Easter, 1999.  The fact that the Pope would address Art and those who create it (painters, sculptors, writers, poets, architects, composers of music) is reason enough to read this very brief little book.  But what begins as a gesture of embrace for the life calling of artists  too quickly becomes a platform for the importance of the Catholic Church in the history of art.  He reviews Humanism, the Renaissance, the place of art within the cathedrals and churches, and the thought that the genius of the artist is to be compared to the creativity of God as he created the Universe in 6 days time.  He quotes the Second Vatican Council in the following words: &quot;This world in which we live needs beauty in order not to sink into despair. Beauty, like truth, brings joy to the human heart and is that precious fruit which resists the erosion of time, which unites generations and enables them to be one in admiration!&quot;  Nice to read such words.<br />Pope John Paul II quotes Polish poets and syntax in admiration of the two millennium bond between the church and art, and it is at these points where he steps away from clerical discourse and approaches personal thoughts. Would that the entire LETTERS TO ARTISTS  have contained more of this tender side of an important man's thoughts.	2004-06-11
635561:US	52496677	R2ENRHEMST6XQB	0375506209	619428462	Diane Arbus: Revelations	Books	5	22	23	N	N	The Monograph as Art Form	DIANE ARBUS: REVELATIONS is one of the most beautiful monographs of an artist I have ever seen or read.  This over-sized, beautifully bound, highest quality paper, extraordinarily fine reproductions of photogravure, and sensitively designed and written catalogue for the touring museum exhibition of Diane Arbus Photographs is simply magnificent and well worth the rather steep price.  But a state-of-the-art monograph would be of little consequence were it not about one of the most controversial and phenomenally gifted photographers of the last century.  Arbus had an affinity for capturing people she encountered because they produced a source of wonder in her.  Her eyes were attracted to the edges of normal appearance and anatomy where she captured luminously tender photographs of developmentally challenged fellow human beings.  There are countless images of children and adults who have survived a life of 'non-normalcy' and she framed them in her camera's eye with no sense of the voyeur, but instead with a great sense of humanism.  Here are portraits of giants with their parents, patients from mental institutions, carnival folk, transvestites, anatomic wonders, as well as simple twins, people she found fascinating, populated places that struck her imagination.  The photogrpahs of Diane Arbus have become icons and the contributors to this volume help to propel her already praiseworthy status to that of a genius: Sandra Phillips' essay 'The Question of Belief', photographer Neil Selkirk's intimate 'In the Darkroom' (Selkirk is the only person allowed to develop prints of Arbus' output), and the beautifully conceptualized and constructed Chronology by Doon Arbus and Elisabeth Sussman bringing to us rarely seen portions of Arbus' output and thoughts - all of these are rendered in the best of taste and finest of scholarship.  Finally, here is a volume that fleshes out the magnificence of the art of Diane Arbus.  This bibliophile's dream of a book deserves awards and most important, deserves your attention.  Highly recommended as a true collector's item.portant, deserves your attention.  Highly recommended as a true collector's item.	2004-06-09
636371:US	52496677	R3RNUY9MTFYNLT	1400061644	454274354	A Chance Meeting: Intertwined Lives of American Writers and Artists, 1854-1967	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Relax and Set Sail on  Artistic Adventures with a Noble Cast	Rachel Cohen has created a diversion in A CHANCE MEETING: INTERTWINED LIVES OF AMERICAN ARTISTS, 1854 - 1967  that is more a series of illuminated daydreams than it is a sourcebook for biographical data on the important artists in American over a century spanning 1860s through 1960s.  No, this is not a code of secretive encounters between unlikely and disparate writers, photograpahers, and artists, nor is it a professed series of inside stories meant to reveal the truths about those we deem as gifted.  Cohen writes splendidly, and though she documents with copious bibliography and chapter notes the instances she encountered in her survey of 'chance meetings ' by a diversity of disparate artists, she seems more intent on using fact as springboard to create cadenzas of intricately woven possibilities to stimulate the reader to enter the wonderful world of 'what if?' than in declaring new-found discoveries of data/gossip.<br />Here in short and terse chapters we meet Matthew Brady, Walt Whitman, Henry James, Marcel Duchamp, Langston Hughes, Hart Crane, Mark Twain, Willa Cather, Alfred Steiglitz with and without Georgia O'Keefe, Charlie Chaplin, Richard Avedon, Gertrude Stein with and without Alice B. Toklas, etc., etc. - you get the picture.  The joy of Cohen's writing is the possibilities created by perseverating on the conversations that might have occurred among these people, whether in duet or in orchestrated outcome.  My bet is that if the casts of characters here discussed were to read these informative and provocative pages, they doubtless would smile, swoon, curse, or laugh, but in some way react to the vision and imagination of Rachel Cohen.  This is a delightful book for devout readers and lovers of artistic history.  There is so much to learn about artists who even today are on the periphery as well as the giants we all 'think' we know!  This wonderful book is for relaxation and diversion and the rewards are many.	2004-06-09
650468:US	52496677	R3JX44QDRWCATK	0595296173	695411145	Being A Dad: The Stuff No One Told Me	Books	5	0	1	N	N	ATTENTION: A Bright New Comedian Has Arrived!	Dale Alderman has the gift for comedy - in excelsis!  In BEING A DAD: The Stuff No One Told Me he offers real life experiences about the uncommonly hilarious (in retrospect, mind you) instances that color the life of young families.  He relates his own moments of madness with his two sons (three years apart) and his wife in a way that is usually found in the territory of stand-up comedians on Comedy Central.  Embarrassing situations  - such as standing in line to buy nipple cream and breast pads, changing his first diaper, the 'real inside story' on vasectomy, potty training, the body changes that occur after babies enter the family space - changes for both mother AND father - and on and  on in an endless protracted heartfelt chuckle to guffaw.  Not only is Alderman funny; he knows how to write.  This book is for everyone  - not just commiserating Dads.  Much like David Sedaris, Alderman is a naturally gifted writer of comedy.  Let's hope he pursues more books about more topics because few authors relate the absurdity of everyday incidents better than Dale Alderman!  A wonderful little book, this.	2004-05-29
650576:US	52496677	R2SU7R0O02H7OH	0595300855	852164963	Face of a Stranger	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Book Primarily for the SciFi Fans	Dan Roentsch writes well, as his first novel FACE OF A STRANGER suggests.  Coming from a background of theater (directing and producing edgy Off Broadway works), the genre of science fiction seems a bit alien to him (!), but if you are a SciFi devotee then I think this book is for you.  Short at only 126 pages, FACE OF A STRANGER manages to pull up some interesting language, very creative terminology for a story in the 24th Century, and make some observations about heroism that are actually more timely than expected.<br />Briefly, the story takes place on the now habited planet Mars, inhabited by both people who immigrated there from Earth as well as the ones born on Mars.  A plague threatens life on Mars, a disease caused by a virus that can be eradicated only by the Earthling Doctor, Harold Sevillus, who dies before his 'secret cure' is spoken.  The doctor brought his young son Maric with him to Mars , under the auspices of one Eric Sheel - the dictator of Edom, Mars, who adopts Maric and encourages Maric's bonding with his own daughter Ursina.  Sheel controls the planet by keeping Edom under dome and providing donors who produce antiserum for the plague virus, making him fully in control of the existence of the population.  Sheel believes Maric to have an implanted at his father's death a  secret for a synthetic cure for the plague and he seeks to gain access to that secret.  Maric is hounded with dreams of 20th Century Earth heroes  who face death.  He is studying the history of his parent planet Earth, has few friends and those he does have include Joey, a childhood friend who has joined Sheel's bodyguard, Kelby his professor, Ursina his lover and Krace, his new found love in the classroom. Maric's obsession with his dreams eventually leads to his discovery of the information planted in his brain and the results throw Sheel's master plan and Maric's choices into a climax.<br />Where the author succeeds best is in his creation of a dialogue that matches the 24th Century.  But that same success in writing his far-reaching projections of science, of communication, and space travel and life on Mars is also one of the problems of the book.  Perhaps for SciFi fans this sort of gobbledy-gook terminology goes with the territory and is expected and therefore accepted. But for the readers new to this genre, names like  SDNAs, holomode, New Kasei, scansole, Earther etc act as stumbling blocks to the flow of the story.  Antiquated as it may seem, perhaps offering a Glossary before or after the novel would avoid confusion.  But that is a small point.  Roentsch very capably creates atmosphere of places we know not and has a cast of characters who, though a bit one dimensional, populate this neverland well.  The quality of heroism is thoughtfully explored and for this reader that alone justifies the writing of this entertaining book.entury.  But that same success in writing his far-reaching projections of science, of communication, and space travel and life on Mars is also one of the problems of the book.  Perhaps for SciFi fans this sort of gobbledy-gook terminology goes with the territory and is expected and therefore accepted. But for the readers new to this genre, names like  SDNAs, holomode, New Kasei, scansole, Earther etc act as stumbling blocks to the flow of the story.  Antiquated as it may seem, perhaps offering a Glossary before or after the novel would avoid confusion.  But that is a small point.  Roentsch very capably creates atmosphere of places we know not and has a cast of characters who, though a bit one dimensional, populate this neverland well.  The quality of heroism is thoughtfully explored and for this reader that alone justifies the writing of this entertaining book.	2004-05-29
655841:US	52496677	R1JWBNSJKJKPXM	1401366635	978240588	All That Is Gone: Stories	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Fine Collection of Stories, A Fine Author	Pramoedya Ananta Toer is an Indonesian writer who lives in Jakarta and has garnered many prizes for his work.  I was surprised to read that he is considered by some to be in a class with James Baldwin, Graham Greene, Bertolt Brecht, and John Steinbeck.  Perhaps in his thirty novels he may rise to those standards, but as for ALL THAT IS GONE: Stories (my first introduction to his writing) he emerges as a talented story teller, but one of many such writers active today.  Not that this collection is not noteworthy - far from that.  Toer has a style that is deceptively simple (he likens stories to the tradition in his native Indonesia of depending on the spoken tales by storytellers instead of the written word) and while the content of his stories may seem simplistic, the after-burn of the message is unusually pungent.  The stories appear autobiographical in nature and range from tales as seen and told through a child's eyes to those of young adult and mature elders.  In the title story the narrator is a small boy who is observing his family disintegration.  In &quot;Inem&quot; one of his 'foster children family' who share the narrator's home is sold into marriage at age 8 and the story concerns her fantasies of 'being someone' and her ultimate acceptance of reality.  &quot;Circumcision&quot; is gently humorous and simultaneously tender as our narrator gains the courage for the tradition of circumcision making him an adult.  &quot;Revenge&quot; (the strongest of this collection) is a story about the young man's need to participate in the glory of becoming a soldier in order to become a man and to honor his homeland, only to come face to face with the realities of War in all its horror. &quot;Defeated troops are always silent, but that night I thought I could hear the men's hearts screaming out to be remembered.&quot;  &quot;...there came to me my life's first revelation: that life is actually very simple, but that man, lake a wind in the dry season filling the air with debris, turns simplicity into chaos.  It is this self-induced state of chaos that causes men to kill one another.&quot;  &quot;War is war, no doubt about it - a constant cycle of man's evil toward man.&quot;  The other stories deal with how prisoners are ill-treated (!) and how Indonesia has moved through the maze of colonialism and independence with lasting imprints from the line of captors - the Dutch, the Japanese, the revolutionaries.  Toer's manner is straightforward and incorporates a lot of Indonesian history and culture. For some this will be revelatory, for others it will be a confusing stumbling block.  In all, these are well-written stories (and in the case of &quot;Revenge&quot; , brilliant).  No doubt Toer is an important writer, but I think it will take more than this collection to justify the eager praise on the book jacket cover.debris, turns simplicity into chaos.  It is this self-induced state of chaos that causes men to kill one another.&quot;  &quot;War is war, no doubt about it - a constant cycle of man's evil toward man.&quot;  The other stories deal with how prisoners are ill-treated (!) and how Indonesia has moved through the maze of colonialism and independence with lasting imprints from the line of captors - the Dutch, the Japanese, the revolutionaries.  Toer's manner is straightforward and incorporates a lot of Indonesian history and culture. For some this will be revelatory, for others it will be a confusing stumbling block.  In all, these are well-written stories (and in the case of &quot;Revenge&quot; , brilliant).  No doubt Toer is an important writer, but I think it will take more than this collection to justify the eager praise on the book jacket cover.	2004-05-25
658481:US	52496677	R2Q3VWJBSO1NDK	0393052095	556688731	Inside the Victorian Home: A Portrait of Domestic Life in Victorian England	Books	5	90	91	N	N	What It Means When We Say &quot;Victorian&quot;	Judith Flanders has written a book that is not only well conceived, well written, enlightening and informative, it is also a window to focusing the definition of the much maligned adjective 'Victorian'.  Flanders writes with a fluid, novelesque style that cements her references and investigations into a fascinatingly powerful indictment of what many of us have believed to be a Golden Age.  Using the unique format of going room by room through a middle class (and please note, this is not a book about the wealthy or the poverty stricken homes) English Victorian house, describing  (and well illustrating!) the emphasis on appearances in the 'public sections' of the homes ( reception halls, parlors, dining rooms, libraries, living rooms) and the disparate Spartan appearances of the 'private rooms' such as the kitchens, bedrooms, bathrooms, maids' quarters, Flanders is indeed describing the social mores of that era. Everything is caught up in appearances:  a woman's place is in the home preparing for the return from work of the husband, keeping the children at bay, overseeing the 'help' and paying lip service and public display to the superficialities of charity work.  Men's live are public; women's lives are private.  One of the many interesting aspects Flanders investigates is the crudity of coping with the filth of the homes - from the gaslight lamps, the soot from Industrialization, the lack of knowledge about bacterial contamination in food handling, the disgust of the mud and manure encrusted streets and shoes, etc.  If ever there were explanations for the dichotomies that inhabit the literature, art, music, politics, gender problems of the late 19th century, they are here well documented by a first-rate writer.  No matter your reasons for wanting to investigate the Victorian Era, this wise and very entertainingly informative book is an excellent resource.  An excellent book on many levels and well worth your reading time!	2004-05-22
661224:US	52496677	R36IN55JVS9VHT	094267927X	648587365	Purple Sun: An epic tale of war and redemption	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Life Distilled: A Richly Rewarding Novel	With extraordinary simplicity and resolute direction of purpose, Lawrence McAuliffe has, in PURPLE SUN, written a novel of immense importance.  Not only is this a tale so well told that it begs for the visual incarnation of a film, it is a story so finely spun that is becomes an instant classic.  Though many years have passed since the Vietnam Conflict and though many writers have approached that sad error in American history with significant success both in prose and poetry, few have found the universal spiritual plane that McAuliffe allows (no, beckons) us to experience, that place where &quot;meaning&quot; is an unimportant as well as impossible word to assign to Vietnam and to war in general.<br />PURPLE SUN, though written in a flashback and flash forward manner that enhances the drama and the visualization of the characters, is a straight forward story about two men - a Sergeant committed to the military ways and a Lieutenant out of synch with the war in service as an inquiring journalist - and their encounter  with an enlisted lad from Kentucky who narrowly misses being killed in action only to return to duty and disappear into the mountains of Hue in Vietnam.  The year is 1968 when it all begins and 1998 when the mystery of the missing soldier is solved.  In the interim the Sergeant and the Lieutenant become  friends and share an obsession to see this mystery through to its end, and that end includes a return to Vietnam and the escort aid of a former Viet Cong soldier who represents the change in time and circumstances from war to peace time.  To say more would be to deprive the reader of the glow of discovery.  But this story, as fine and as well told as it is, is only a platform for McAuliffe's gentle meditations on life and death. &quot;Things happen at times...and you do not know why.  Sometimes you never do. If you let it get to you, it can kill you.  To survive, you have to forget.&quot;  &quot;One has to surrender oneself fully to the realization that there can be no life without death.  Dying each day, dying for one's self and for others is necessary, in order for this life to reach its fulfillment.  Without that, fulfillment cannot be attained.&quot;  &quot;...no journey should be undertaken without accepting the possibility that one may not be able to finish it or that at journey's end, if it is reached, one might find what one had not expected.  Some things should always be shrouded in mystery, mystery beyond our limited human understanding.  With time, understanding may come, an understanding that is a dawning and is always a gift.&quot;  &quot;He remembered  the poet who said one should, first of all, strive to see with the 'eye' and not the 'I'. Let the images enter pure before you soil them with interpretation; if you can do that, you will have a hint of the eternal.&quot;  These are just a few of the memorable words I found myself marking for return at another time.  And that is the hallmark of a fine book: a great book feeds the reader and nourishes the mind and the heart and the soul.  And I don't think this is only from the response of one who was there in Vietnam at the time of this story.  This book is far more universal than that.  In these times when our belief systems are being tested past the limit of elasticity, Lawrence McAuliffe has provided a foundation for making sense of what can be made sense of - and that goes beyond the scope of the excellent novel that is PURPLE SUN.at there can be no life without death.  Dying each day, dying for one's self and for others is necessary, in order for this life to reach its fulfillment.  Without that, fulfillment cannot be attained.&quot;  &quot;...no journey should be undertaken without accepting the possibility that one may not be able to finish it or that at journey's end, if it is reached, one might find what one had not expected.  Some things should always be shrouded in mystery, mystery beyond our limited human understanding.  With time, understanding may come, an understanding that is a dawning and is always a gift.&quot;  &quot;He remembered  the poet who said one should, first of all, strive to see with the 'eye' and not the 'I'. Let the images enter pure before you soil them with interpretation; if you can do that, you will have a hint of the eternal.&quot;  These are just a few of the memorable words I found myself marking for return at another time.  And that is the hallmark of a fine book: a great book feeds the reader and nourishes the mind and the heart and the soul.  And I don't think this is only from the response of one who was there in Vietnam at the time of this story.  This book is far more universal than that.  In these times when our belief systems are being tested past the limit of elasticity, Lawrence McAuliffe has provided a foundation for making sense of what can be made sense of - and that goes beyond the scope of the excellent novel that is PURPLE SUN.	2004-05-20
670712:US	52496677	R227CR79EP9KWD	0060542535	835099649	Lives of the Circus Animals: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Word from the Other End of the Spectrum of Critics	Christopher Bram is simply one of our best writers of fiction today.  His previous works have met with well-founded acclaim (\\"The Notorious Dr. August: His Real Life and Crimes\\", and \\"Father of Frankenstein\\"), but for some reason THE LIVES OF THE CIRCUS ANIMALS isn't popular with most readers.  I'm not at all sure why.  This beautifully constructed book has vividly drawn characters, humor, scandal, absurdities, love form all sides of the sexual spectrum, tenderness, warmth, and a Ringmaster's viewpoint of just how untamable 'animals' can be.  The plot centers around the misadventures of groups of theater people in New York City - actors, playwrights, critics, and wannabes - and Bram manages to stir the cauldron of these characters with such sensitivity that in the end - the Grand Finale of a birthday party - the whole extravaganza comes to a pitch perfect boiling point.  The coda to the book shows very subtle resolution of all the lives.  Bram's title comes from a poem by William Butler Yeats entitled \\"The Circus Animals' Desertion\\" and at one point out main character, the playwright Caleb refers to it  \\" Where he says he gave his heart to the theater, but he's all burned out and his animals have run off.  It's the poem with the lines 'I must lie down where all the ladders start,/In the foul rag-and-bone shop of the heart.'\\"  Bram runs with this terrific quote and has created a novel that, for this reader, is equal to his other fine works.  Highly recommended.	2004-05-12
687004:US	52496677	R2OC8QJJ6SNVRI	0375421998	74069672	In Ruins	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	A Walk Though Paradise Garden	IN RUINS by Christopher Woodward is one of the most genteel, warmly evocative, yet scholarly extended essays about beauty that has appeared in a while.  Only a true artist could 1) come up with the idea of meditating on ruins of past civilizations and  2) recreate historical places not only through his own perceptive eyes but also through the eyes and writings and drawings and paintings of artists for the past two hundred years.  Woodward finds beauty in the &quot;neglected&quot; ruins, the old sites where nature has nudged the surfaces with wild flowers, mosses, crawling vines, and ground swells, preferring this respect for times past to the wild flurry of the preservationists who seek to 'restore' these treasures to their 'original glory' but often invite tourism with its adjunctive sales, stands, and souvenirs.  He has visited the ruins of Rome, of Sicily, Cuba, England, etc and is distraught when he finds these various havens for poets sequestered  with guardrails and other implements of distraction. &quot;..the artist is inevitably at odds with the archeologist.  In the latter discipline the scattered fragments of stone are parts of a jigsaw, or clues to a puzzle to which there is only one answer, as in a science laboratory; to the artist, by contrast, any answer which is imaginative is correct.&quot;  &quot;What [poet] Shelley's experience shows is that the vegetation which grows on ruins appeals to the depths of our consciousness, for it represents the hand of Time, and the contest between the individual and the universe.&quot;  Of the 'Picturesque Movement' in England, Woodward writes referring to the latter day artist John Piper &quot;I know perfectly well I would rather paint a ruined abbey half-covered with ivy and standing in long grass than I would paint it after if has been taken over by the Office of Works, when they've taken of  all the ivy and mown  all the grass.&quot;  Woodward talks about even the transporting of ruins from, say, Libya to England (as per King George IV in 1827 importing the Roman ruins of Leptis Magna to his Gardens at Virginia Water).  &quot;A ruin is a dialogue between an incomplete reality and the imagination of the spectator.&quot; And finally in his thoughts on war monuments and memorials he writes &quot;Is it ever possible to preserve the 'strange beauty' of war, to capture the moment of 'dust in the air suspended'?&quot;<br />Each of these eloquently written thoughts and musings  is unlike anything else you will find in books on art history, architectural history, or even philosophy.  Christopher Woodward has graced our libraries with a little volume that holds dear the intangible, the corporeal transience, the lasting loveliness of man's time on this planet as protected by nature.  This is truly a beautiful book that begs for moments of your indulgence, away from the madding crowd.d (as per King George IV in 1827 importing the Roman ruins of Leptis Magna to his Gardens at Virginia Water).  &quot;A ruin is a dialogue between an incomplete reality and the imagination of the spectator.&quot; And finally in his thoughts on war monuments and memorials he writes &quot;Is it ever possible to preserve the 'strange beauty' of war, to capture the moment of 'dust in the air suspended'?&quot;<br />Each of these eloquently written thoughts and musings  is unlike anything else you will find in books on art history, architectural history, or even philosophy.  Christopher Woodward has graced our libraries with a little volume that holds dear the intangible, the corporeal transience, the lasting loveliness of man's time on this planet as protected by nature.  This is truly a beautiful book that begs for moments of your indulgence, away from the madding crowd.	2004-04-29
687853:US	52496677	R1QXCRG74K891Z	0595307566	524152868	King of Cats	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Wandering back through the truths of a tale of relationships	Blake Fraina (note, and remember, the name) bounds onto the literary scene with a finely written, mesmerizing story that is as much an occult visit to an Analyst's Office as it is beautifully written story. KING OF CATS: A LIFE IN FIVE NOVELLAS is, in retrospect after reading the book, a suggestion of what Fraina seems to be about. The 'expected' meaning of \\"Novella\\" is extended short story, usually addressing completely different subjects and ideas. Not so, here, as Fraina suggests in his wise Preface. He has written five non-consecutive years in the life of a Rock star - one Jimmy 'Strange' Lyons - and the development of this main character from the barely suggested character in the first novella to the gradual disrobing and analyzing the whole person by the end of the book is in keeping with the book's premise: \\"Ultimately, it's our secrets that define us\\". Fraina places his character on the prosector's table and then proceeds to reverse the time machine in a most satisfying way.<br />The first installment \\"King of Cats\\" Fall 2002 deals with a narrator Sam (presumably the author) who becomes obsessed with an exhibition at New York's Metropolitan Museum of the paintings of Balthus - one painting in particular being 'The King of the Cats'. During the course of his involvement with understanding the seductive aspect of this painting, he encounters a young man, Elliott, as elusive and enigmatic as the painting, and eventually has a torrid affair with him. By the end of this novella we discover that Elliott is not the inexperienced 'first-timer' Sam thought and the concept of Elliott's past rises from the fog in the persona of Jimmy Lyons. In the subsequent novellas, Sam is not longer present as a person (though one thinks he is in actuality the writer). Instead we are gradually shown Jimmy Lyons in \\"The Bargain\\" Spring 2001 and how he became involved with the strange Elliott as he attempts a straight life with Lisa. In \\"Kissing the Gunner's Daughter\\" Winter 1995 we find that our Jimmy Lyons, as an established Rock guitarist, has entered a relationship with Adam who to this point has been a verbal homophobic member of Jimmy's band - the Mogs. Elliott remains in the picture as a shared love interest but by the end of the fourth novella \\"My Father's House\\" Summer 2003 the triangle plays to an unfortunate but not unexpected end. The handsome, popular, famous, drug dependent Rock star Jimmy Lyons, who has seemed to be utterably and almost cruelly self-sufficient, is explored in the final novella - \\"Hidden History\\" 1987 - where we discover the roots of Jimmy Lyons in his poverty belt in England, his abusive-parented childhood and his break into the escape world of popular music. How this tortuous manner of story telling plays out is left to the reader to discover, as telling the ending would remove one of the pleasures so abundant in this book.  Described by one of his would-be female lovers Cass, upon seeing the scars from his father's repeated beatings, \\"It occurred to her that he wasn't unlike one of her flea market finds, seemingly so flawless yet secretly damaged.\\" \\"His public persona...was merely a defense mechanism. Inside he would never lose his fear of being exposed, used, humiliated, hurt.\\" And so by shifting back and forth in time, stumbling on clues of who the real Jimmy Lyons might be, Fraina has painted an indelible image, a character that will stay with you long after the 'Novellas' are over.<br />Yes, this is a book about gay relationships and Fraina writes as well about the intimacies and the varieties of lifestyles as anyone writing today. He does not make it a point to scream out that this is a 'gay novel': it is simply a novel that is peopled with a significant number of gay people. No AIDS traumas here: the sex scenes, while sensuous, are an integral part of the storyline, not lurid decor. Blake Fraina, first and foremost, writes extremely well. And for a first novel, this book is quite extraordinarynd that our Jimmy Lyons, as an established Rock guitarist, has entered a relationship with Adam who to this point has been a verbal homophobic member of Jimmy's band - the Mogs. Elliott remains in the picture as a shared love interest but by the end of the fourth novella \\"My Father's House\\" Summer 2003 the triangle plays to an unfortunate but not unexpected end. The handsome, popular, famous, drug dependent Rock star Jimmy Lyons, who has seemed to be utterably and almost cruelly self-sufficient, is explored in the final novella - \\"Hidden History\\" 1987 - where we discover the roots of Jimmy Lyons in his poverty belt in England, his abusive-parented childhood and his break into the escape world of popular music. How this tortuous manner of story telling plays out is left to the reader to discover, as telling the ending would remove one of the pleasures so abundant in this book.  Described by one of his would-be female lovers Cass, upon seeing the scars from his father's repeated beatings, \\"It occurred to her that he wasn't unlike one of her flea market finds, seemingly so flawless yet secretly damaged.\\" \\"His public persona...was merely a defense mechanism. Inside he would never lose his fear of being exposed, used, humiliated, hurt.\\" And so by shifting back and forth in time, stumbling on clues of who the real Jimmy Lyons might be, Fraina has painted an indelible image, a character that will stay with you long after the 'Novellas' are over.   <BR>Yes, this is a book about gay relationships and Fraina writes as well about the intimacies and the varieties of lifestyles as anyone writing today. He does not make it a point to scream out that this is a 'gay novel': it is simply a novel that is peopled with a significant number of gay people. No AIDS traumas here: the sex scenes, while sensuous, are an integral part of the storyline, not lurid decor. Blake Fraina, first and foremost, writes extremely well. And for a first novel, this book is quite extraordinary	2004-04-29
694500:US	52496677	R353WLYO9VJF5Q	1413407102	300153729	Pledge of Honor	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The Care and Tending of a First Novel	Lori L. Anderson is a young novelist whose first work, PLEDGE OF HONOR, is a bit of a puzzle. Anderson knows how to tell an interesting tale and knows how to keep her audience involved in the process.  The genre of sci-fi/mythology/action-adventure/pop romance has a vast audience: the shelves of book stores and the screens of movie theatres are full of escapist stories, giving credence to the fact that the world as we are experiencing it currently demands some sane escape routes no matter how temporary.  It would seem Anderson is embarking on a MATRIX-type, HARRY POTTER-type, LORD OF THE RINGS-type, even SHREK-type journey.  From the way people are responding to this first work it seems she may have a populist success on her hands.<br />But there is another aspect of critiquing a 'first novel' that is part of the total picture.  Many of the weaknesses in writing technique can be overlooked by the fact that the story of alien capture of earthlings who are piloted through a fairytale adventure by a girl willing to give her all for the cause and a boy who is the spiritual hero in the genealogy of The One, etc moves along well without impediments.  But the writing style varies from simple tale spinning to pop culture slang to superficial attempts at philosophizing about cataclysmic ends and Enlightenment - Good versus Evil.  Minor errors of name selection, such as assigning &quot;Keenu&quot; (just too annoying a play on Keanu Reeves name from Matrix, etc fame) as the name of her hero, allowing dialogue to lapse into current slang that dates the story - these are aspects of Anderson's writing that need attention if she is to become a writer to be taken seriously.<br />But given the many books out there that never find an audience, PLEDGE OF HONOR has found a tolerant and enthusiastic group of readers that will likely assure her of tales of further installments in this fairytale.  And for that, and her inherent good intentions, this book is a refreshing little excursion for a quick read for those who love this magic world!for a quick read for those who love this magic world!	2004-04-23
706233:US	52496677	R1OT1BQ38L7F2P	0316740845	887528533	You Are Here: A Memoir of Arrival	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Place This Book  High On Your Must-Read List!	Wesley Gibson is an extraordinarily fine writer.  YOUR ARE HERE: A Memoir of Arrival is that rare breed of book that combines autobiographical information filtered through a storyteller's gift of fiction that enhances the presence of the written word.  And Gibson is such a finely tuned wordsmith that he is able to, within the space of one page, make the reader howl with laughter and then feel the internalized, longstanding turmoil that makes his characters so vital.<br />Raised in the South (Richmond, Virginia) with all of its odd family values, social codes, religiosity, and homophobia, Gibson concentrates  his memoir on his transplantation to New York City,<br />the \\"HERE\\" of the title.  Quite different from the end-of-the-rainbow aura that Gotham has for most writers and readers and artists and dreamers and, well, all of us, Gibson peels the layers off the city that never sleeps, letting us know just how difficult it is to exist there.  His many jobs, his apartment hunting through the gay roommating service, his over the edge hypochondria, his work as a telemarketer, his endless attempts to be the writer he knows he can be... all of these themes are populated with curious people (few characters drawn in contemporary fiction are as hilarious-yet tragic as the morbidly obese Mr. McNally he has to rescue from the toilet seat).  Curious, and yet tragic also: John his male nurse roommate whose horrendous cough ultimately is diagnosed as lung cancer, his other roommate Alan who is seen only briefly between the sounds of tricks, joyful Jo Ann his dearest friend, his own PWA dates from whom he attracts scabies, and the rest of the co-players in this novel.<br />Gibson peppers his memoir with many insights on being a gay man.<br />\\"To be gay is to live, with a certain hesitancy, however slight, out there in the world.  Even when it only flickers through you, you can't help wondering how the day thing is going to play itself out with your sister's new husband, in that class you're teaching, at some stupid party.  It's born from the understanding that the simple act of walking down the street could be enough to instigate the day of your death. etc\\"  \\"I'd never been much of a theater queen, but I had my own longings of a literary kind, and as far as I knew, no amusing caricatures of me had ever appeared in the New York Review of Books, my Broadway.  That was the problem with bars.  Everyone's dreams seem to leak and get all over the floor.\\"  \\"In the mirror , I was still recognizably human; but the icy and amphibious blood of a New Yorker trying to survive was beginning to course through my veins.\\"  And \\"It seemed like a fitting inheritance for  a world where friends were family, and family were strangers, and you might find yourself helping someone else to die because you'd been yoked to them by accidents of commerce and the mysterious trick of your own sexual nature and some fumbling attempt at compassion.\\"<br />As usual, excerpts chosen from an excellent novel serve as the best criticism and notice of a writer's genius.  Reading YOU ARE HERE is a joy and clearly one of those I-can't-put-it-down books that come around all too seldom.  Highly recommended!you're teaching, at some stupid party.  It's born from the understanding that the simple act of walking down the street could be enough to instigate the day of your death. etc\\"  \\"I'd never been much of a theater queen, but I had my own longings of a literary kind, and as far as I knew, no amusing caricatures of me had ever appeared in the New York Review of Books, my Broadway.  That was the problem with bars.  Everyone's dreams seem to leak and get all over the floor.\\"  \\"In the mirror , I was still recognizably human; but the icy and amphibious blood of a New Yorker trying to survive was beginning to course through my veins.\\"  And \\"It seemed like a fitting inheritance for  a world where friends were family, and family were strangers, and you might find yourself helping someone else to die because you'd been yoked to them by accidents of commerce and the mysterious trick of your own sexual nature and some fumbling attempt at compassion.\\"<br />As usual, excerpts chosen from an excellent novel serve as the best criticism and notice of a writer's genius.  Reading YOU ARE HERE is a joy and clearly one of those I-can't-put-it-down books that come around all too seldom.  Highly recommended!	2004-04-14
710478:US	52496677	RWDR015EV9NO2	006056198X	832249848	Bleachy-Haired Honky Bitch: Tales from a Bad Neighborhood	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Hilarious &quot;scripts&quot; for a 1st rate standup commedienne!	Hollis Gillespie is one of the funniest, wittiest, brightest writers around. BLEACHY-HIRED HONKY BITCH: TALES FROM A BAD NEIGHBORHOOD reads like hearing a standup comedienne play to an audience for all its worth. Though I have never heard her on her gigs as NPR commentator on &quot;All Things Considered&quot; or read her &quot;Mood Swing&quot; column for Atlanta's CREATIVE LOAFING weekly, I am in awe of her craftsmanship with words, her outrageous analogies and metaphors, and her ability to find humor in the most mundane of circumstances and events. Yet despite the corrosive title, Gillespie does not come across as a weirdo to be avoided at all costs: if all that she writes is based on truth then she has to be one of the most endearing friends and observers around. Perhaps this richness of material comes from the fact that in addition to her 'cultural side' as an NPR commentator, she actually is a flight attendant and a linguist, so put all that background together and the sky is not even the limit for this talented writer's imagination. She peoples her 'memoirs' with friends (gay Brian and Grant whose own lives are rich in hilarity, Lary who is looney and plies her with drugs, her rocket scientist mother - who dreams of being a beautician! - and alcoholic ne're-do-well trailer salesman father, and her brothers and sisters who provide material from her incredibly weird childhood to her normalcy-challenged adulthood. The book is an easy read: chapters are rarely more than two or three pages and peppered with photos of her friends and family. Because of the nature of the layout of the book, it is a terrific traveling companion or bedside icon for chuckling the day's troubles away before sleep.<br />I'd like to see Gillespie write a full-fledged novel, so keen is her word craftsmanship. Examples: &quot;I never had a pussy-pet dog. Once I temporarily inherited two Labradors named Gracie and Amber. They were sisters, and both of them were the most comical, slobbery, eye-booger encrusted, walking wads of psoriasis you ever saw. Having birthed three litters, they each had hefty leftover dugs that dangled from their underbellies like big balls of soft warm dough. Amber had a problem with her left ear too, which occasionally swelled up like an eggplant and stuck straight out from her skull, making her look like she had a furry party balloon taped to her head. etc.&quot; and &quot;There must be something really wrong with the world when you can't get a buzz off your codeine cough medicine. Christ if that doesn't just suck all the fun out of being sick.&quot; You get the picture.<br />If there are episodes of repeated information, read them like reminders of some of the previous laughs in the book. Oddly, too, for a book format such as this, the quickie memoirs hang together with clever continuity: Gillespie usually sums up each short remembrance with an introspective bit of tenderness. This is a refreshing, well-written bit of welcome satire of our world &quot;and welcome to it!&quot;ooger encrusted, walking wads of psoriasis you ever saw. Having birthed three litters, they each had hefty leftover dugs that dangled from their underbellies like big balls of soft warm dough. Amber had a problem with her left ear too, which occasionally swelled up like an eggplant and stuck straight out from her skull, making her look like she had a furry party balloon taped to her head. etc.&quot; and &quot;There must be something really wrong with the world when you can't get a buzz off your codeine cough medicine. Christ if that doesn't just suck all the fun out of being sick.&quot; You get the picture. <BR>If there are episodes of repeated information, read them like reminders of some of the previous laughs in the book. Oddly, too, for a book format such as this, the quickie memoirs hang together with clever continuity: Gillespie usually sums up each short remembrance with an introspective bit of tenderness. This is a refreshing, well-written bit of welcome satire of our world &quot;and welcome to it!&quot;	2004-04-12
715285:US	52496677	R2ZRGBS5D1DB35	0385093888	933371981	The Nude: A Study in Ideal Form	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Kudos to Amazon.com for keeping an important book available!	THE NUDE: A STUDY IN IDEAL FORM, a classic investigation and summation, is one of scholar/historian Kenneth Clark's finest works - and that is high powered praise in view of all of his contributions to literature. Few writers inform with such dignity of prose, style, and warmth as Clark and THE NUDE is no exception. This handsome and illuminating volume dates back to 1953 and is based on six lectures given by Clark for the A. W. Mellon Lectures in Fine Arts at the National Gallery in Washington, DC. Clark opens his book with a lyrical treatise \\"The Naked and the Nude\\" in which he not only introduces his manner of examining the use of the nude as pictorial image for artists from ancient Greece through the Renaissance to the present, he wraps his scholarly information with personalized psychosocial commentary that is uniquely his own and allows the reader to settle in for the exploration ahead.<br />Approaching first the male nude [\\"Apollo\\"] from the Kouros of 600 BC through the vases, sculptures, reliefs, and paintings from all periods of history, he then moves to two views of the female nude - Venus I [the celestial female form] and Venus II [the woman of earthly form]. Having laid the foundation for the use of the nude in general, he then addresses the artistic emotions of Pathos, Energy, and Ecstasy in a manner that is near novel-like in reading. He closes his lecture series/book with a thought-provoking discussion of how man has viewed the nude through history, vacillating between laud and honor to the depiction of guilt, of the human stain. And finally he demonstrates in \\"The Nude As An End In Itself\\" both the occult appropriation of repeated forms and the acknowledged plagiarism of the nude studies from the earliest to the current. The Book is generously illustrated but in the paperback version available the illustrations are in black and white only. This profound and warmly human book is a must for artists and art lovers alike. Highly Recommended.  And as is so often the case, Amazon.com does its readers a great service by finding ways to make books of such importance as this available to the public.often the case, Amazon.com does its readers a great service by finding ways to make books of such importance as this available to the public.	2004-04-07
723289:US	52496677	R1O24W7PQKS3OE	0385093888	933371981	The Nude: A Study in Ideal Form	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Classic Investigation and Summation	THE NUDE: A STUDY IN IDEAL FORM is one of scholar/historian Kenneth Clark's finest works - and that is high powered praise in view of all of his contributions to literature.  Few writers inform with such dignity of prose, style, and warmth as Clark and THE NUDE is no exception.  This handsome and illuminating  volume dates back to 1953 and is based on six lectures given by Clark for the A. W. Mellon Lectures in Fine Arts at the National Gallery in Washington, DC.  Clark opens his book with a lyrical treatise \\"The Naked and the Nude\\" in which he not only introduces his manner of examining the use of the nude as pictorial image for artists from ancient Greece through the Renaissance to the present, he wraps his scholarly information with personalized psychosocial commentary that is uniquely his own and allows the reader to settle in for the exploration ahead.  <br />Approaching first the male nude [\\"Apollo\\"] from the Kouros of 600 BC through the vases, sculptures, reliefs, and paintings from all periods of history, he then moves to two views of the female nude - Venus I [the celestial female form] and Venus II [the woman of earthly form].  Having laid the foundation for the use of the nude in general, he then addresses the artistic emotions of Pathos, Energy, and Ecstasy in a manner that is near novel-like in reading. He closes his lecture series/book with a thought-provoking discussion of how man has viewed the nude through history, vacillating between laud and honor to the  depiction of guilt, of the human stain. And finally he demonstrates in \\"The Nude As An End In Itself\\" both the occult appropriation of repeated forms and the acknowledged plagiarism of the nude studies from the earliest to the current.  The Book is generously illustrated but in the paperback version available the illustrations are in black and white only.  This profound and warmly human book is a must for artists and art lovers alike.  Highly Recommended	2004-04-01
730583:US	52496677	R1Z9K66UA24434	3822816620	214573569	Sculpture	Books	4	35	36	N	N	Magnum Opus!	SCULPTURE FROM ANTIQUITY TO THE PRESENT DAY is a huge and beautiful book  published originally in four volumes, but here those volumes are compounded into one heavy but articulate book.  The writing is varied yet for the most part not only informed but readable and the number of illustrations is overwhelming.  Both in black and white and in color, they are sharp and color-corrected and accompany the writing with specificity.<br />The book is divided as follows: Part 1 - THE GREAT ART OF ANTIQUITY From the Eighth Century BC to the Fifth Century AD;  Part 2 THE GREAT ART OF THE MIDDLE AGES From the Fifth Century to the Fifteenth Century; Part 3  THE GREAT TRADITION OF SCULPTURE From the Fifteenth Century to the Eighteenth Century;  Part 4 THE ADVENTURE OF MODERN SCULPTURE In the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries.  Each period is examined with scholarly precision but at the same time the essayists are allowed subjective response, a factor that makes the reading more enjoyable.<br />For the artist and art lover who are looking for a fine reference book on Sculpture through the ages, this is a very fine work - and very affordable.  One minor complaint: though Picture Credits are listed, there is no Index for the works in the book.  If you are looking for a particular work to review you must know the era in which it was created and then work your way through that section until you happen on it.  Were it not for this frustrating omission, this would definitely be a 5 star recommendation.	2004-03-26
733521:US	52496677	R3LP1RT3MXACPM	0972429522	87790266	Reel and Rout	Books	4	3	5	N	N	THE AMERICAN OBSERVER	Robert A.G. Monks comes to the novel like a creature born to the medium.  His lifetime activities as a shareholder's activist in the world of corporate finance and his obvious knowledge of Finance and The Corporate Monster serve him well in writing REEL AND ROUT.  As one reader who does not inherently find the milieu of Big Business of much cultural interest these days, I was not immediately attracted to this novel: the subject seemed to border on boring.  Well, first impressions can be incorrect.  Reading REEL AND ROUT can be not only an educational experience for those uninformed about the corporate world of mergers, takeovers, and greed, it proves to be a fascinating story about the ultimate value of the individual who finds success by means of his own endeavors.  One aspect of this novel that makes for interesting reading is the author's use of actual historical events and real people to add credibility to his tale:  Monica Lewinsky, Bill Clinton, William Westmoreland and many others populate this tale and lend insight as to what is news and what isn't.  Monks' use of naming chapters by dates and times also adds momentum to this driving obsession with power and greed.  Yet the chapters that prove most interesting are those in which he takes a 'stage aside' to give biographical information about his main players.  In these chapters he waxes poetic, depends on elegant images and renderings of periods of times past that are the equal of many fine novelists writing today.  If the other chapters become mired in unnecessarily redundant abbreviations which are meaningful only to those corporate types about whom he writes or if he bangs the drum of CorporateTalk too loudly to sustain interest, then he is forgiven by his ultimate resolutions that make the story satisfying.  Being South African both as an author and as the main character, the subject of the book is the ultimate takeover of the revered magazine The American Observer.  And to this reader the subject radiates out into the 'outsider' view of American ways - a belief system for which we should all be made aware.  This book is well worth the reading and work it takes to make it through.s out into the 'outsider' view of American ways - a belief system for which we should all be made aware.  This book is well worth the reading and work it takes to make it through.	2004-03-24
740563:US	52496677	R3JF63UCZG57JN	1560233826	90955928	The Big Book of Misunderstanding	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Looking for all the pieces of the puzzle - and finding them!	I loved reading THE BIG BOOK OF MISUNDERSTANDING!  There it is, out in the open, and writing a critique of Jim Gladstone's first novel is colored by that sort of passion for writing that happens all too infrequently.  Gladstone writes with an elegant wit and grace and obviously fell hopelessly in love with all his varied characters of this absorbing novel.<br />The book opens with what appears to be a suicide decision on the part of our 22-year-old hero Joshua Royalton only to recede immediately into the formative years of this lad and his inimitable family.  Gladstone constructs a 1970s family that is headed by Harris Royalton the lawyer father who is obsessed with happiness, and 'inappropriately  sensual' with his wife Becca, who weathers the slings  of family secrets and misadventures and eventually becomes a psychologist, Joshua our latent closeted gay hero, and his brother Lewis, the athlete and macho man who tolerates the happy-wappy family far less than Joshua.  The \\"Misunderstandings\\" are sprinkled throughout the progression from childhood glow to teenage angst and we are audience to the disintegration of this Philadelphia family unit which molds the now and future lives of everyone oconcerned.  Lewis flees to California's hippy scene, Becca puts all the lunacy into finding her psychologist chair, Joshua tries love with a girl and eventually uncaps his true sexuality and dreams of writing.  Only Harris, the softly lovable but deluded 'perfect father' remains on homebase and the 22-year-old Joshua breathes submission then denial to the phrase \\"You can't go home again.\\"  To say more than that would be to deprive you of the tangible joys of turning the pages and falling into the lure of Gladstone's characters.  His style of writing is infectious: \\"Riding the currents of Melville's ocean late into the night, I felt waves of meaning come crashing down.  Submerged messages floated to the surface, eddying through my mind.  In quicksilver words flashing round a whirlpool, I glimpsed reflections truer and more elusive than mirrors had ever offered.  At two in the morning I laughed, exhausted, my pages and my figertips all solid, screaming pink.  Having tried to highlight every significant detail, I had drenched the entire story in phosphorescent ink.\\"  And when it comes to describing carnal senses, Gladstone is able with a very few words to completely paint the bizarre world of sexuality.<br />This is a coming of age and awareness of a young gay man, but this is much more than that.  This BIG BOOK OF MISUNDERSTANDING is one of the finest dissections of American family life, presented on the prosector's table with love, style and tender wisdom.  Turning the last page made me return to the opening page and start reading all over again. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED for everyone.lpool, I glimpsed reflections truer and more elusive than mirrors had ever offered.  At two in the morning I laughed, exhausted, my pages and my figertips all solid, screaming pink.  Having tried to highlight every significant detail, I had drenched the entire story in phosphorescent ink.\\"  And when it comes to describing carnal senses, Gladstone is able with a very few words to completely paint the bizarre world of sexuality.<br />This is a coming of age and awareness of a young gay man, but this is much more than that.  This BIG BOOK OF MISUNDERSTANDING is one of the finest dissections of American family life, presented on the prosector's table with love, style and tender wisdom.  Turning the last page made me return to the opening page and start reading all over again. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED for everyone.	2004-03-18
741272:US	52496677	R1RP27SSS4GVYP	8589992012	605175220	Rio for Partiers: The visual travel guide to Rio de Janeiro, 6th edition	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Classy and Very Thorough Guide to Rio de Janeiro!	RIO FOR PARTIERS is not just a travel book for tourists looking for info about the party capital of the Americas: with writer/editor/art director Cristiano Nogueira's multiple talents this is a witty, entertaining, very informative, and indispensably useful guide to discovering the myriad delights of Rio de Janeiro.  Though written for the twenties-something crowd who apparently travel primarily for the party scene, Nogueira manages to scan the city with all its sights and delights from the vantage of a Hang/Para Glider and his invitations to the various sights both partywise and culturewise are keen, thoughtful, and to the point.  Acknowledging that there are indeed areas and street types the tourist needs to avoid, Nogueira maps out recommended daily outings, illustrates local foods/restaurants, sporting adventures, and enough history of the city to draw us like a magnet.  Aided by richly colorful photography (both his own and his partner Joao Penoni's) this book abounds in up close and personal views of the places recommended as well as some lushly romantic vistas that seem more beautiful than the routine guidebook stock shots.  Nogueira adds a special touch: in this book for EveryTraveler he devotes a section to \\"Gay Rio\\" as written by Claudio Sampaio and this section is an indicator of just how glowing the spirit of Brazil truly is - the city of Rio de Janeiro invites everyone and treats the visitors well.  RIO FOR PARTIERS is not only a terrific party-guide - it is an excellent and wonderfully readable seduction to a city that promises about everything you'd want.  Highly recommended!	2004-03-18
748629:US	52496677	RSEE75IHQGY3W	0743237927	82609319	The ABCs of Life : Lesson One: The Skills We All Need but Were Never Taught	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Wise Words From A Caring Thinker	LESSON ONE:THE ABCs OF LIFE is a wonderfully readable, sensitive approach to teaching children of ALL ages how to live in a world so in need of compassion, understanding, cooperation, and mutual respect and love.  Until reading this wise book I was unaware that LESSON ONE  is a widely used educational adjunct created and fostered by the writer Jon Oliver.  With the assistance of Michael Ryan Maestro Oliver reveals his learned life lessons on how to instill in children the ability to not only co-habit universally, but how to find happiness within themselves.  Sound simplistic?  Well, then you need to read this book.  Some ideas we all pay lip service to are reiterated in a concise teaching technique that applies to adults equally strongly as to children. The sections are powerfully titled:  The Pledge for Success, dealing with Golden Rule elements, respect for diversity, self-motivation to be the best you can be; Self Control with mega-important periods of Self-Control Time out; Self Confidence building; Responsibility for one's own actions and consequences; Cooperation.  Each of these helpful categories is presented with stories from the author's experiences as well as examples that are global. The result is a stimulating book intellectually, a resource for self improvement, and a joyous addition to the lesson plans of teachers, parents, all children and all adults. The possibilities of a world changed by the incorporation of these vital lessons is a dream of joy, not only to the authors, but to  all those who take the time to read and practice the teachings in this valuable book.	2004-03-12
753978:US	52496677	R19OWDM4O4826G	0872864243	566252347	Signal Hill	Books	3	7	8	N	Y	In time.......	Five Stars for effort: Three stars for result.  Alan Rifkin knows how to write.  He comes to this minor collection of short stories with credentials in journalism and creative writing.  And it seems he has an idea of where he eventually hopes to arrive - in the peopled tarmac called Los Angeles.  But in these stories (actually four short stories and a novella from which the collection derives its title) Rifkin pens sketches of ideas of personalities and psychology that in the end are fairly shallow.  True, the very isolated psyches of people living on the freeways headed to momentary entanglements with other isolationists might just be a valid view of Angelinos.  But to make us care about them we need more fluid style of telling and a few sidebar mirrors to reflect the hollow faces of these folk, perhaps finding a home within our memories when the book is finished.  Not quite there yet.  But sounds like real stories may come down the multiple off ramps!	2004-03-08
754042:US	52496677	R1SMW9FWLNWCDU	067003214X	177308601	Patriots: The Vietnam War Remembered from All Sides	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Summation in Retrospect	Christian G. Appy has, for this reviewer, provided the most comprehensive evaluation of the Vietnam War that has been published.  Appy holds a degree in American Civilization, which indicates a degree that encompasses more than history, more than the melting pot beginnings of a country comprised entirely of emigrants whether contemporaneous or historical, more than comparative religions, ideologies - more than each of these components alone. And this umbrella of 'American Civilization' knowledge suffuses this large tome with a yearning for coming to grips with how we as a nation have inflicted and suffered wars.<br />By introducing each of his sections and subsections with terse, cogent essays of historical fact, Appy opens the doors for understanding the 135 interviewees he recorded both here and abroad (abroad in this case emphsizes Vietnam).  Part One: Introductions  leads us into the tenor of the book, allowing the words of high military personal from both the US and the Vietnamese forces from South and North to be interspersed with words of victims, reporters, doctors, corpsmen, spies, and citizens from both sides.  Part Two: Beginnings 1945 - 64 utilizes this broad spectrum of interviewee  types and shows the errors in judgment and philosophy bilaterally that inexorably marched toward war.  Part Three: Escalations 1964 - 67 throws us into the fray of the atrocities of the battles on the field and in the minds of all involved.  Part Four: The Turning Point 1968 - 70 begins with the infamous TET offensive and its subsequent effects on the moral of the troops and the antiwar demonstrators at home.  Part Five: Endings 1970 - 75 addresses the obvious futility of the war, the peace talks gone awry, the lies about My Lai and the Christmas bombing of Hanoi and those in Cambodia and Laos, and the Watergate termination of Nixon's reign. Part Six: Legacies 1975 to present examines the whole bloody error of the worst historical mistake and defeat on the part of the US government and military. The voices of writers Tim O'Brien, Oliver Stone, reporters, veterans, generals, Vietnamese vistims, Daniel Ellsberg, Westmoreland, Alexander Haig - all ultimately speak to the war that should have never been.<br />Appy writes cogently, documents his interviews and his facts well, and gives a more rational history of this War than most who have written about it.  This is not an easy read: the book is long (600 pages), dense, and at least for this Vietnam Veteran a painful review of the complete picture.  PATRIOTS: THE VIETNAM WAR REMEMBERED FROM ALL SIDES is timely in its publication.  Hopefully enough people will read this book to awaken to the similarity between Vietnam and Iraq. War is simply NOT an answer.ernment and military. The voices of writers Tim O'Brien, Oliver Stone, reporters, veterans, generals, Vietnamese vistims, Daniel Ellsberg, Westmoreland, Alexander Haig - all ultimately speak to the war that should have never been.<br />Appy writes cogently, documents his interviews and his facts well, and gives a more rational history of this War than most who have written about it.  This is not an easy read: the book is long (600 pages), dense, and at least for this Vietnam Veteran a painful review of the complete picture.  PATRIOTS: THE VIETNAM WAR REMEMBERED FROM ALL SIDES is timely in its publication.  Hopefully enough people will read this book to awaken to the similarity between Vietnam and Iraq. War is simply NOT an answer.	2004-03-08
761201:US	52496677	R289UB9S6RG76V	0972429530	835516174	Ira Foxglove	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Gift of Wit, Whimsy, and Wonder	Thomas McMahon is much missed.  Not only was his demise untimely in 1999, but he left a legacy of  the marriage of science and art  that promised much more for the future and we are the lesser for his absence.  McMahon trained at Cornell, MIT, and Harvard where he was a professor of biology and is created with founding the field of biomechanics.  A brilliant and creative scientific thinker, he penned books on science (On Size and Life 1983 and Muscles, Reflexes and Locomotion 1984) as well as his novels of great distinction - Principles of American Nuclear Chemistry: A Novel (1970), McKay's Bees (1979), and Loving Little Egypt (1987).  Brook Street Press now publishes this novel, Ira Foxglove, posthumously and while it is the first of his novels for this reviewer, I find it hard to imagine that it is not one of his best.<br />McMahon's joint thinking lines of scientist and artist are not unique: Michelangelo was both architect and writer (among other gifts) and William Carlos Williams joined a medical career with writing poetry.  But unlike most minds whose focus is on both the analytic and the sensual - the Apollonian and the Dionysian - Mc Mahon delves into the surreal, plays with dreams and other imaginings, and creates stories that embrace humor, fantasy, whimsy, satire cum wit, and a very human pathos.  The term `magical realism' has been attached to his work and while there are similarities with the works of Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Kurt Vonnegut, such a `classification' seems confining to his style.<br />IRA FOXGLOVE is the narrator of this novel - a man who has rather suddenly come to face his mortality when his heart weakens and alters his entire life. An example of Mc Mahon's wit: Foxglove is the common name for the primary heart medicine - the digitalis plant.  Ira is an inventor and has had several good ideas that he allows to escape to other's hands, one of these being inflatable fabrics that never get dirty.  Ira's wife Portia, who measures her life by her swimming sessions, leaves Ira and flies to Europe for adventurous escape, landing eventually in London with Dawlish Warren, a strange lover of sorts.  Ira's daughter is studying in Paris with an artsy group of bohemians.  Finding himself without much future Ira decides to fly to Europe in an attempt to reconcile his diasporic family.  His mode of transportation: a blimp piloted by his friend Neptune who has a penchant for fishing in odd locations en route.  Once in London Ira observes Portia's life, decides to visit his daughter Henley in Paris where he is oddly at one with her bohemian housemates.  He surrenders to Henley's bizarre lifestyle, even participating momentarily in one of her plays.  He feels an awakened passion for one of Henley's friends, Peaches, and in his becoming reacquainted with lust he \\"invents\\" an artificial heart that would not require implanting inside the body (oddly based on a tomato skin!) which promises to provide him with a solution to his own weakened heart.  The pace of events speeds along disastrously resulting in his becoming truly aware of his daughter's love and wins back Portia's interest and passion and departs his European journey a resurrected man. The precise way in which the ending is brought about is left for the discovery of the reader; giving it away would lessen the joy of reading.<br />This tale may seem slight but it is in the telling that the magic abounds.  Mc Mahon writes with a singing poetic voice (\\"We talked her whole childhood away.\\") that hints of his informed scientific mind yet soars beyond, as though knowing how things `work' allows him the luxury of disregarding facts in favor of fantasy.<br />This novel secures Mc Mahon's permanent place in the realm of great American writers.  Would that there were more!by her swimming sessions, leaves Ira and flies to Europe for adventurous escape, landing eventually in London with Dawlish Warren, a strange lover of sorts.  Ira's daughter is studying in Paris with an artsy group of bohemians.  Finding himself without much future Ira decides to fly to Europe in an attempt to reconcile his diasporic family.  His mode of transportation: a blimp piloted by his friend Neptune who has a penchant for fishing in odd locations en route.  Once in London Ira observes Portia's life, decides to visit his daughter Henley in Paris where he is oddly at one with her bohemian housemates.  He surrenders to Henley's bizarre lifestyle, even participating momentarily in one of her plays.  He feels an awakened passion for one of Henley's friends, Peaches, and in his becoming reacquainted with lust he \\"invents\\" an artificial heart that would not require implanting inside the body (oddly based on a tomato skin!) which promises to provide him with a solution to his own weakened heart.  The pace of events speeds along disastrously resulting in his becoming truly aware of his daughter's love and wins back Portia's interest and passion and departs his European journey a resurrected man. The precise way in which the ending is brought about is left for the discovery of the reader; giving it away would lessen the joy of reading.<br />This tale may seem slight but it is in the telling that the magic abounds.  Mc Mahon writes with a singing poetic voice (\\"We talked her whole childhood away.\\") that hints of his informed scientific mind yet soars beyond, as though knowing how things `work' allows him the luxury of disregarding facts in favor of fantasy. <BR>This novel secures Mc Mahon's permanent place in the realm of great American writers.  Would that there were more!	2004-03-03
775593:US	52496677	RLE8E57Q97KBL	067401197X	15213451	Homosexuality and Civilization	Books	5	66	76	N	N	A Brilliantly Researched, Illustrated and Written History	Louis Crompton has produced in HOMOSEXUALITY & CIVILZATION a definitive book about same sex relationships from the beginning of civilization to the present.  Not only is this 624 page compendium thoroughly documented with copious footnotes, bibliography, valuable indices on both written content and illustrations, it is presented in an elegant format by Belknap Press of Harvard University Press - all of which become s additive but secondary to the brilliance of Crompton enlightened writing style.  No dry treatise this, though the scholarly ethic is always in evidence.  Crompton relates his reportage and commentary in a fluid, highly readable fashion, a fact that makes this book read like the great historical novel.<br />Although others have written excellent 'justifications for homosexuality' on various platforms that usually seem to border on glorified gossip for a hungry audience of fellow travelers, Crompton relies on myriad quotaions from historical documents, poetry, stories, myths, histories, and intact evidence of teachings of the great minds from twenty-four centuries.  He wisely begins with Early Greece then Classical Greece where love between males was glorified and honored, to Rome where same sex relationships were an integral part of the Roman warriors' lives.  He quotes liberally from the poetry of Sappho, Homer, Plato, Ovid, Cicero etc and integrates the lyrical with the writings of Caesar and Alexander and other emperors and leaders.<br />Then comes the change.  With the introduction of 'Christianity which was born when Rome was stood at the peak of its power and Greek culture still dominated the Mediterranean world.' The single most destructive concept of homosexuality as an abomination and a crime worthy of (and receiving) the death penalty is the brief story of Sodom and Gomorrah.  Even though Crompton demonstrates that the inception of the hate campaign resulting from this Judaic story may have originated from an incorrect translation from the Bible, this Levitical evidence was the reference used to torture, imprison, slaughter, and burn at the stake  countless men and women who were even suspect of same sex love or who engaged in the act of sodomy.  The Story marches forward like a pestilence through the Middle Ages and the Renaissance with the Inquisition only an example of the fury that the Church used to destroy sodomites, considered to be the cause of all misfortune in battles, disease, and civic unrest because of God's fury at peoples who allowed this crime.<br />Make no mistake; Crompton does not march against the Church as the source of all evil in telling the story of the homosexuals' plight. He writes lyrically of the wonders of the Renaissance and the Papal patronage of the great master works of art in the history of Western Civilization. He quietly continues to demonstrate that these holy works were from the minds and hands of homosexual artists such as Michelangelo, da Vinci, Caravaggio, Botticelli, and Donatello. He talks about the Popes, the kings, the emperors, the famous men and women of the political and religious and artistic world who were known to be homosexual.<br />Crompton does not exclude Eastern Civilization in his massive book.  As a matter of fact his beautifully written accounts of Chinese and later, of Japanese histories provide a welcome breath of dignity to the ongoing slaughter and genocide of the homosexuals in Western Civilization.  Because the Judaic Bible was not part of the culture of these civilizations, there was no rule or law against same sex relationships.  Influenced by the Oriental mind being at one with nature include being at one with all beings in nature, and while it was accepted that unions between man and woman were necessary for the proliferation of their civilizations, more often than not the purer 'love and passion' stories were those between men.  The Samurai are shown to be deeply involved with male lovers who were the driving force for valour on the battlefield.<br />Once the atrocities of the Inquisition began to fade and the Age of Enlightenment and Reason altered man's view of the law as at least equal to the dogma of both the Papal authority and the Protestant Reformation, Crompton writes of the gradual decriminalization of homosexuality, examining the differences between the timelines of  France, Spain, the Netherlands, England and the United States and leaves his thorough investigation in the Supreme Court ruling of June 26, 2003.  \\"Our story concludes here, at the moment when executions finally cease in Europe. Looking back over twenty-four centuries, what pattern can we see in the dozen societies we have examined?  Most striking, certainly, is the divide between those that called themselves Christian and those that flourished before or independently of Christianiy. In the first we find laws and preachings which promoted hatred, contempt, and death; in the second, varying attitudes, all of them (barring Islam, which, like Christianity, inherited the lethal tradition of the Hebrew scriptures) to a radical degree more tolerant.\\"<br />This book is not a light read; reading one chapter a day is about all we can fully absorb and relate to our own knowledge of history.  But Crompton is both knowledgeable and a thoughtful writer.  His book is generously illustrated with examples of paintings, sculptures, images of the people under discussion, and extant documents.  One could comfortably use this book as a text for the general study of Civilization.  The fact that Louis Crompton has added the parallel history of homosexuality to his intellectual tracing is a welcome addition to scholars and to all readers who long for an understanding of a topic that has rarely been more relevant than it is today.  This is a brilliant book and an extraordinary achievement.  Highly Recomended!!!battlefield.<br />Once the atrocities of the Inquisition began to fade and the Age of Enlightenment and Reason altered man's view of the law as at least equal to the dogma of both the Papal authority and the Protestant Reformation, Crompton writes of the gradual decriminalization of homosexuality, examining the differences between the timelines of  France, Spain, the Netherlands, England and the United States and leaves his thorough investigation in the Supreme Court ruling of June 26, 2003.  \\"Our story concludes here, at the moment when executions finally cease in Europe. Looking back over twenty-four centuries, what pattern can we see in the dozen societies we have examined?  Most striking, certainly, is the divide between those that called themselves Christian and those that flourished before or independently of Christianiy. In the first we find laws and preachings which promoted hatred, contempt, and death; in the second, varying attitudes, all of them (barring Islam, which, like Christianity, inherited the lethal tradition of the Hebrew scriptures) to a radical degree more tolerant.\\"<br />This book is not a light read; reading one chapter a day is about all we can fully absorb and relate to our own knowledge of history.  But Crompton is both knowledgeable and a thoughtful writer.  His book is generously illustrated with examples of paintings, sculptures, images of the people under discussion, and extant documents.  One could comfortably use this book as a text for the general study of Civilization.  The fact that Louis Crompton has added the parallel history of homosexuality to his intellectual tracing is a welcome addition to scholars and to all readers who long for an understanding of a topic that has rarely been more relevant than it is today.  This is a brilliant book and an extraordinary achievement.  Highly Recomended!!!	2004-02-22
778965:US	52496677	R20FTAA4VLOBWT	0842373624	806511644	The Passion: Photography from the Movie "The Passion of the Christ"	Books	4	48	55	N	N	And let the debates begin!	Rarely has the level of hype for a motion picture reached the heights (or depths!) being engendered for THE PASSION as directed by Mel Gibson.  The camps of religious groups both pro and con await the Ash Wednesday opening of the film, but in the meantime Tyndale House Publishers has released this book THE PASSION apparently to assuage the fears of the public, but more to prepare the audiences for the quality of the film before it opens.  The book is brief, with an introduction by Mel Gibson that reads from the heart of a devout man, portions of (coincidentally!) the Tyndale New Living Translation of the Bible, along with Aramaic and Latin quotes that reflect the language used in the film<br />The photographs of the Garden of Gesthemane, the trial before Pilate, and the various stations of the cross, and the final crucifixion are expressionistically gut wrenching in their demonstrating the brutality of which man is capable.  Jim Caviezel is agonizingly real: it is difficult to imagine a response other than pain and pity at the very least when viewing this event that altered the course of Western Civilization.  Each image is classically framed and artistically created.<br />If anything, this book will more than likely draw more doubting viewers into the theater to see what Mel Gison has achieved.  A beautiful art book - with a message.	2004-02-19
780724:US	52496677	R35KB9N1HZAVES	1887178511	958703317	Lament for the Makers: A Memorial Anthology	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A Fine Sampling of Some of Our Best Poets	W.S. Merwin curated single poems from the works of poets who had lived and died during his lifetime and published them under the title LAMENT FOR THE MAKERS: A Memorial Anthology.  Himself a Pulitzer Prize winner in 1971, Merwin begins this tasty anthology with an extended poem in which he memorializes (or rather crystallizes) each of the twenty-three poets he has selected.  Though not his best poem, it is an apt introduction to works by TS Eliot, WH Auden, James Merrill, Ezra Pound, Sylvia Plath, Robert Graves, Elizabeth Bishop, William Carlos Williams, etc.  Reading poems selected by a poet is a lesson in itself.  This small anthology will encourage readers, new to some of the poets here, to pursue more complete anthologies (the isolated works are not among the poets' best).  A nice bedside book for ending the day in beauty.	2004-02-18
789580:US	52496677	RF8H7RZ8ZDHZC	0374166447	82302003	The Great Fire: A Novel	Books	5	81	88	N	N	A Labor of Love, from both author and reader - and worth it!	One expected the long awaited novel from Shirley Hazzard to meet with adulation.  Hazzard enjoys the reputation of writing award winning books over a considerable period of time.  She also is her own person and defies classification as a novelist, so unique is her style.  THE GREAT FIRE was twenty years in the writing and reading it reveals why that is so.  Hazzard writes with thick, pungent, fragmented prose.  Her manner is one of revealing bits and pieces of a story in non-linear fashion: at times within one page she has covered several decades of reference without even a demarcation of a paragraph or inserted space.  This technique demands total concentration from the reader and at least with this reader requires retrograde reading, reviewing previous paragraphs and sentences to assure that the story is intact!<br />And of course it is.  Any time spent re-reading Hazzard's luminous prose is time twice blessed. Few other authors can bathe in phrases so articulate and wise that not only are they descriptive and additive, but they also can be read as isolated poems. \\"Our pleasures.  He and I have killed, hand to hand, and have absorbed it.  Can recall it, incredulous.  Our pleasures were never taken that way, as by some in battle.  Once, after a skirmish in the desert, a fellow officer whom he had never considered vicious had remarked. 'A man who hasn't killed is incomplete, analogous to a woman who has never given birth.' Embracing the primitive; even gratified.\\"<br />The story: \\"The Great Fire\\" references the global devastation of WW II with particular empahsis on the nuclear attack on Japan.  The year is 1947 and the characters are two men forever bonded by their experiences in battle. One is writing a book on the effects of the war on Asia and the other is trying Japanese war criminals. The lives tie and untie in the most fascinating ways. There is a family spilt asunder by the times - a brother and sister cling together, he with a degenerative nerve disease, she with the commitment to caring for him. There is a love story; no, there are love stories, and each fragment of story unveils the damage inflicted upon bodies and souls by a War without equal.  Hazzard captures the post-war fallout that has become all too familiar in the past century as well as the present one.  And it is this weaving together of disparate souls in a tapestry of fire and smoke and eventual vacuum that is the driving force of this novel.  Romance has never been written so bittersweet. \\"As she walked, she put her hand to her mouth to hold his kiss, and to her breast to enclose his touch.  The man, instead went to his own room and to his table - to those papers where the ruined continents and cultures and existences that had consumed his mind and his body for years had given place to her story and his.  He could not consider this a reduction - the one theme having embroiled the century and the world, and the other recasting his single fleeting miraculous life.  Having expected, repeatedly, to die from the great fires into which his times had pitched him, he had discovered a desire to live completely; by which he meant, with her.\\"<br />No, this is not a novel for a quick read on a plane or to keep in the car for unexpected delays.  This is a rare gem that deserves full attention.  The rewards are inestimable.  Think Virginia Woolf. Think Reliquary.he with the commitment to caring for him. There is a love story; no, there are love stories, and each fragment of story unveils the damage inflicted upon bodies and souls by a War without equal.  Hazzard captures the post-war fallout that has become all too familiar in the past century as well as the present one.  And it is this weaving together of disparate souls in a tapestry of fire and smoke and eventual vacuum that is the driving force of this novel.  Romance has never been written so bittersweet. \\"As she walked, she put her hand to her mouth to hold his kiss, and to her breast to enclose his touch.  The man, instead went to his own room and to his table - to those papers where the ruined continents and cultures and existences that had consumed his mind and his body for years had given place to her story and his.  He could not consider this a reduction - the one theme having embroiled the century and the world, and the other recasting his single fleeting miraculous life.  Having expected, repeatedly, to die from the great fires into which his times had pitched him, he had discovered a desire to live completely; by which he meant, with her.\\"<br />No, this is not a novel for a quick read on a plane or to keep in the car for unexpected delays.  This is a rare gem that deserves full attention.  The rewards are inestimable.  Think Virginia Woolf. Think Reliquary.	2004-02-11
796142:US	52496677	R195RJYI2FKZ2G	1930051999	562028801	Eternal Treblinka: Our Treatment of Animals and the Holocaust	Books	5	17	21	N	N	'Let him who is without sin cast the first stone'	Reading Charles Patterson's THE ETERNAL TREBLINKA: OUR TREATMENT OF ANILMALS AND THE HOLOCAUST is a shattering experience. If Patterson's postulates are true, and he has carefully researched and documented with copious footnotes the facts he so bravely reveals here, then we as a global society need to take responsibility for the horrors against fellow man we so willingly assign to 'others', never ourselves. The parallel of man's treatment of animals from Genesis to the present and the recurring genocides of humans is stated early on in this wise book: \\"Not only did the domestication of animals provide the model and inspiration for human slavery and tyrannical government, but it laid the groundwork for western hierarchical thinking and European and American radical theories that called for the conquest and exploitation of 'lower races,' while at the same time vilifying them as animals so as to encourage and justify their subjugation.\\" And later, \\"Throughout the history of our ascent to dominance as the master species, our victimization of animals has served as the model and foundation for our victimization of each other. The study of human history reveals the pattern: first, humans exploit and slaughter animals; then, they treat other people like animals and so the same to them.\\"<br />Patterson traces our carnivorous society to the Ice Age when plants were no longer available for food and animals became the source of staving off hunger. From this beginning he traces the gradual herding, forced breeding, selective trashing of the weak and infirm, sterilization techniques, American Indian genocide and slavery practices throughout the world as well as in America, slaughterhouse productions lines (suggesting that Henry Ford who made assembly line production popular and who was one of Hitler's few heroes forged the way for models for the extermination camps of the Nazis) - all steps from the abuse of animals to the extermination of peoples in such a way that we as readers are forced to reflect on what we have always considered as atrocities that shamed other countries and societies are actually rooted in our own history.<br />Good books make us think. Patterson writes so well that despite his historical didactic approach to this uncomfortable subject, it is difficult to put this book down. Many may not wish to finish reading his tome, but everyone should be made aware of its postulates. In the midst of his documentation of his theory he places an utterly poetic tribute of a chapter to Isaac Bashivus Singer, the Nobel Prize laureate for literature in 1978. Singer was a vegetarian and a poet of kindness and Patterson seeks to imbue hope in his readers by emulating Singer's visions.<br />THE ETERNAL TREBLINKA is an important book and if we are to learn from history to prevent repetition of past sins then this surely stands as one source of instruction. Would that schools could include this as recommended reading for all students - form Junior High to high school to college.are forced to reflect on what we have always considered as atrocities that shamed other countries and societies are actually rooted in our own history. <BR>Good books make us think. Patterson writes so well that despite his historical didactic approach to this uncomfortable subject, it is difficult to put this book down. Many may not wish to finish reading his tome, but everyone should be made aware of its postulates. In the midst of his documentation of his theory he places an utterly poetic tribute of a chapter to Isaac Bashivus Singer, the Nobel Prize laureate for literature in 1978. Singer was a vegetarian and a poet of kindness and Patterson seeks to imbue hope in his readers by emulating Singer's visions. <BR>THE ETERNAL TREBLINKA is an important book and if we are to learn from history to prevent repetition of past sins then this surely stands as one source of instruction. Would that schools could include this as recommended reading for all students - form Junior High to high school to college.	2004-02-06
804992:US	52496677	RCYQGSP5B9SDX	0767913337	204176887	Christopher: A Tale of Seduction	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Comedy and Tragedy and Why They Relate	Allison Burnett bows onto the First Novelist Stage with a novel that is hilarious, witty, intelligent, acerbic, and warm, tender, and loving all at once.  Burnett very obviously possesses a keen wit and is well read: one of the perks of reading CHRISTOPHER: A TALE OF SEDUCTION is frequent literary references and puns that stimulate the brain as well as entertain the mind.<br />The tale of seduction storybook is narrated by BK Troop, an endlessly provocative, caustic, overweight and unattractive bipolar gay man in his forties who has just fled his Manhattan apartment under threat of decapitation by his schizophrenic landlady and takes up residence in an apartment that just happens to be next door to 25 year old straight Christopher Ireland, a handsome but unlucky in love and marriage wannabe novelist on the skids.  Convinced he can seduce this 'victim' BK begins a story that takes place during the entire year of 1984.  Christopher has needs that date back to his comically/tragically crazy childhood, his problems with relating to women are colored by his relationship to a madcap banshee of a psychiatrist mother.  During this significant year of 1984 BK Troop observes, connives, cajoles, fantasizes and otherwise attempts to lure the sad sack Christopher into his lair only to discover that something he never has found - love - topples his house of cards philosophy of life and sexuality.  In the span of a year BK and Christopher grow to find a kinship that serves them both well and the multiplicity of events narrated by the brilliant BK become gradually less preposterous and more human.  This change in BK's role as the seducer of record is explained: \\"In my madness, I felt that I was as ugly a human being as had ever lived.  A monster really, whose life was a giant sham, a fey intellectual burlesque, designed to distract others and myself from the truth, which was that, although I dreaded loneliness more than anything else, I had come to earth to die of it.\\"  And his opinion of Christopher as the object of his game of seduction alters: \\"For is it not a fact of our modern age that the family we cherish most is the not one who shares our noses and tempers, but the one with whom we share the minutia of our daily lives.\\"<br />And from January through December 1984 we a taken on a commedia dell'arte ride, learning much about wild cap Manhattan, the vagaries of human relationships, all manner of bizarre adjustments and lack of adjustments to living in the world today, all with more insight into the differences between the gay vs. straight psyche than most novels deliver. Burnett Allison is a refreshingly fine writer and he leaves an indelible stamp on our minds.  This book deserves a much wider audience!pinion of Christopher as the object of his game of seduction alters: \\"For is it not a fact of our modern age that the family we cherish most is the not one who shares our noses and tempers, but the one with whom we share the minutia of our daily lives.\\"<br />And from January through December 1984 we a taken on a commedia dell'arte ride, learning much about wild cap Manhattan, the vagaries of human relationships, all manner of bizarre adjustments and lack of adjustments to living in the world today, all with more insight into the differences between the gay vs. straight psyche than most novels deliver. Burnett Allison is a refreshingly fine writer and he leaves an indelible stamp on our minds.  This book deserves a much wider audience!	2004-01-30
808606:US	52496677	R2U1ZXPGNOQDFI	0847822230	542709122	Hidden Tuscany: Unusual Destinations and Secret Places	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Great Treasures We Don't Know in Tuscany	HIDDEN TUSCANY: UNUSUAL DESTINATIONS AND SECRET PLACES is a title that explains this beautiful book well.  Even to the traveler who frequents Tuscany often there are little known but extraordinary treasures that author Cesare Cunaccia and photographer Massimo Listri unveil in a most conversational and sensitively visual display.  Yes, it takes many visits to Florence, Sienna, Lucca, etc to see absolutely everything found  in the art history books, most of which is in the confines of the Uffizi in Florence and even more of which is reflecting the rich Renaissance era of art. The lines just to see Michelangelo's David, for example, attest to their well-won popularity. But this book points out that there are great examples of the Romanesque architecture, of buildings and gardens that date back to the 1300s, that one of the best-kept secrets of Florence is its Silk Factory.  For those art lovers who seek examples of the Mannerist Pontormo look no further than the lavishly illustrated section on his decor for the Santa Felicita.  The magic found in the geometric designs that adorn San Miniato defies credibility.  Listi is not a documentary photographer and that is a compliment:  his photographs are bathed in light and shadow and are reproduced in this splendid volume with great respect for color value.  For those not already addicted to the romance of Tuscany this volume will certainly weight the case for its preeminence in the traveler's world.	2004-01-28
812827:US	52496677	R196USFXPCRXQK	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Coetzee and the Nobel "Ideal of Direction"	DISGRACE is a fascinating novel, easily read, clearly traversed. JM Coetzee has won the Booker Prize, the 1999 National Book Critics Circle Award for Fiction, and now he has been awarded the 2003 Nobel Prize in Literature for DISGRACE. Yes, this is a fine novel which, though transparent in appearance, delves into major issues of academic impropriety, racism, rape, animal abuse, and the South African political arena. It is an important book.<br />What defines the Nobel Prize in Literature? We all know the Nobel Prize for Peace and how it is awarded. But in investigating how for more than one century since Nobel's Will created the highly regarded Prize named for him, the types of books awarded seem so varied and we discover that there is no ONE direction for selecting which is the best book. Alfred Nobel himself deemed the award \\"for the person who, in the literary field, had produced 'the most outstanding work in an ideal direction'\\". In truth the prize is awarded to an author who demonstrates this 'ideal direction' for his output, not just for the novel cited. That being said, JM Coetzee seems eminently qualified for his Nobel Prize. He continues to write books that may be about particular tales but are in essence global metaphors challenging us to carefully compare our own microcosms and see the relationship to the universals nascent there.<br />DISGRACE, briefly, follows a year in the life of David Lurie, a University professor of poetry teaching in the governmentally reduced liberal arts portion of education in Cape Town to a group of less than interested students, students who mirror the ennui now present among the universities of the world who place Computer Programming and peripheral sciences and economic courses shelves above the importance of the arts. At 52 Lurie has failed in two marriages, spends his frustrated spare time in ... for hire afternoons, and cruising the young female students on his campus. When in a moment of foolishness he has a brief affair with a young student which of course is discovered and results in his expulsion from the university - his Disgrace for his appetites of the flesh - Lurie elects to take leave to the Eastern Cape where his sole child, a Lesbian daughter Lucy, has set up a hippie existence on a farm. Unable to cope with the country life Lurie decides his goal is to write an opera about Lord Byron in Italy but has not the talent to create his ideal. He gradually adjusts to the rural life until a vicious attack by three South African men joltingly alters his and his daughter's life , and Lurie is both physically and emotionally scarred. How he pulls himself together, repairs his relationship with his daughter, comes to grips with the \\"new\\" South Africa and its requisite parceling of land reforms, etc and finds the window to his own soul which has been fogged (and even denied) throughout his life - these elements make up the bulk of the novel.<br />Coetzee's ability to maintain with extreme clarity the flow of his story is only one of the many graces of his talent. His way with words is terse yet poetic. \\"..in my experience poetry speaks to you either at first sight or not at all. A flash of revelation and a flash of response. Like lightning. Like falling in love.\\" \\"..we cannot live our daily lives in a realm of pure ideas, cocooned from sense-experience. The question is not, How can we keep imagination pure, protected from the onslaughts of reality? The question has to be, Can we find a way for the two to coexist?\\" \\"War, Atrocity: every word with which one tries to wrap up this day, the day swallows down its black throat.\\" \\"The blood of life is leaving his body and despair is taking its place, despair that is like a gas, odourless, tasteless, without nourishment. You breathe it in, your limbs relax, you cease to care, even at the moment when the steel touches your throat.\\" And these are but a few of the moments that make us stop in awe of the gifts of a wordsmith such as Coetzee.<br />DISGRACE, then, is first a fine novel, second, a work of poetic beauty, and third, a doorway into exploring many of the challenges in thought we all face on daily. Knowing that our perceptions are in like study in such unknown regions and cultures such as South Africa merits the Nobel nod for \\"ideal of direction\\". We are one universe. A reminder of that is prize-worthy.RACE, then, is first a fine novel, second, a work of poetic beauty, and third, a doorway into exploring many of the challenges in thought we all face on daily. Knowing that our perceptions are in like study in such unknown regions and cultures such as South Africa merits the Nobel nod for \\"ideal of direction\\". We are one universe. A reminder of that is prize-worthy.	2004-01-24
814217:US	52496677	RYJAK6W7W1FQU	0060523883	518686539	Call Me the Breeze	Books	5	0	2	N	N	An Irish Feast by the Inimitable Patrick McCabe!	Patrick McCabe has long established himself as one of the more gifted contemporary writers and certainly one of the more creative.  His writing style takes some getting used to for the novice McCabe reader, but despite what appears to be a confusingly insurmountable task in his first chapters, perseverance pays off and McCabe's gifts are stunning!<br />CALL ME THE BREEZE, aptly titled, traverses the fanciful, quasi-delusional life of one Joey Tallon from the 1970s to the present. Joey lives in Ireland, is surrounded by a throng of characters that could be either real or drawn from his imagination.  His adventures run the gamut from drugs, to crime and subsequent incarceration, to poetry, to screenplay writing, to Don Quixotesque, Don Juan-like  meanderings with multiple Dulcineas, delusional inamorata - all the fantasies we have grown to appreciate form McCabe's mind - along with piquant and tender moments of actual introspection and intellectual diversions.  Joey Tallon is a newly created figure that McCabe now places in the sanctum sanctorum of unforgettable literary 'heroes'.  Yes, he is manic, contagiously enthusiastic about everything he encounters (or fantasizes), recklessly susceptible to heroes from Charles Manson to Hermann Hesse to Joni Mitchell, given to obsessive ambitions, yet he at all times is wholly lovable and believable to the reader.  Think Stephen Daedalus, Holden Caulfield, etc.<br />Gratefully there are many authors writing today with abundant talent: Patrick McCabe is toward the head of the line. He is not an easy read, but delving into this book will be an adventure you are unlikely to find elsewhere.  For those new to his style perhaps reading THE BUTCHER BOY first will allow you to jump in to CALL ME THE BREEZE without the struggles that may face first time readers of his books.  A significant novel and a true joy!	2004-01-23
822900:US	52496677	R2TWY1M2N7AZ2N	0786877723	481806638	Five People You Meet in Heaven, The - 12 Copy Floor Display	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Five Suggestions Why This Book is a Best Seller	Mitch Albom seems to have captured the attention of the reading public with FIVE PEOPLE YOU MEET IN HEAVEN much as he did with the still best-selling TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE.  Through a simple tale of the death of a lonely old man whose life has been a series of 'disappointments and failures' who upon entering Heaven discovers what his life really meant, Albom is able to communicate matters spiritual and  corporeal.  It seems to this reviewer that there may be five reasons for the success of this book. 1) It is short, readable-in-a-small-amount-of-time view from a man in the Media (yes, we all fear the media is usurping our individuality..) 2) It is written with a simplicity that allows the ideas expressed to be easily accessed 3) It draws characters who seem like old friends we all have known 4) It spans a history of Americana over 83 years  - the life of the main character - in a 'good old days' manner and 5) It offers a plausible explanation for an afterlife, in a world that is teetering on the edge of spiritual vacuum.  In other words, Albom has once again given the public a time of quiet repose to make sense of the world now and later, and as with TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, he is able to confront us with the idea of death and help us come to a certain peace.<br />Those are enough reasons for a little book to justify its best-seller status.  Great literature this is not. Profound new philosophy this is not.  But is is a thoroughly enjoyable, popular reminder that there is a meaning to life on earth. \\"..each affects the other and the other affects the next, and the world is full of stories, but the stories are all one.\\"	2004-01-17
823490:US	52496677	R3DMUROFQC6IBS	1586638831	593443393	Paris: Timeless Places	Books	4	0	0	N	N	La vie Parisienne	Judith Mahoney Pasternak understands Paris:  she not only is well-schooled in the history of the City of Lights, she is also acquainted with the intimate side of Paris.  This is the type of book that will prepare the nascent visitor to Paris with an insider's view and will also substitute for a personal scrapbook for frequent visitors. The book is divided into two parts: L'Histoire (with sections on 'The City of Yesterday', 'A City of the Mind', 'A City of the Senses', and 'The Living City') and Les Images.  The photography is atmospheric, elegant and informative, mixing the requisite grand buildings with intimate photos of the Parisians sitting along the Seine, wrapping cheeses, in the flea markets.  This book truly contains the spirit of Paris and belongs in every traveller's library.	2004-01-16
823701:US	52496677	R3UNGLA0LXRX68	1586638807	758125338	Tuscany: Timeless Places	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Everyone's Desires	TUSCANY has almost every facet of living that the wanderer could desire - serene countrysides, ancient cities filled with the most important treasures of Western Art, museums, incredible vistas of mountains, vineyards, coastlines, and skies punctuated with spires of buildings as old as civilization.  Author Alexandra Bonfante-Warren wisely edits her writings about Tuscany to be a bit different than her other volumes in the Timeless Places Series: TUSCANY is less concerned with historical data than it is with the magic of the four seasons as they caress this magnificently beautiful region of Italy.  Historical references are many, though they merely enhance allusions to the magic of Florence, Sienna, the small villages, and the immeasurably beautiful photographs of the foods of Tuscany.  Here are fruits and vegetables in the fields, hanging in villages, cooked to sensual perfection on old pots.  The photographs are rich in color and in variety of subject and, to the credit of the photographic editor, we are presented with an unsually rich and different vantage of this favorite region.  A delightfully written and lovingly produced book.  This is, as is the entire series of travel books &quot;Timeless Places&quot;, a wealth of beauty at an unbelieveably low price!	2004-01-16
823886:US	52496677	R1M14KNKFQ18YP	1567997880	959997641	Venice (Timeless Places)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Venice - Enduring Mystery	VENICE is another in the Timeless Places series written by Alexandra Bonfante-Warren and again she has produced a book that makes us feel as though we are observing her city from the gently rocking gondola, from amid the pigeons in St Mark's Square, and from private tours to the glass-blowing houses deep in the city of canals.  Part 1 (Storia) begins with a healthy if succinct history of the sinking city, proceeds through sections entitled 'Il Dogado', 'La Dominante', and  'The Splendid Decline', all preparing us for Part 2 which is images of the city that by rights should not even exist, so anchored to the lagoons and pilings that the sea penetrates regularly.  But before the further sinking of the city she introduces through pictures the uniqueness that is Venice.  Even for visitors who know the city well, for readers who cling to every novel (and they are legion!) about,  set in, or referencing Venice, here is Venice as splendidly protrayed as any travel book.  A must for those captivated by the city that knows no time.	2004-01-16
824086:US	52496677	R3E7FEU0LT7PT3	1586638815	456801428	Provence: Timeless Places	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Pungent Slice of France	PROVENCE is so much more than a travel book - though if ever there were a book that would seduce even the most blase traveller then this is it.  Alexandra Bonfante-Warren writes with a tasty wit and respect for a region of France that holds many mysteries and countless pleasures.  She opens her book with a tale of religious relics and their origins that make you feel as though you are begining a novel! Then she scopes picturesque Provence from the vantage of history from mountains to valleys to plateaus to the sea.  In the second half of this generously illustrated book there are vistas of fields of grains and lavendar,vineyards of course,  rivers and falls that challenge the supremacy of the sea, and elegantly composed visits into the old buildings, abbeys, cloisters, grottos, mountain villages, marketplaces, etc.  This is  a splendid introduction to a region of richness rarely observed so well.	2004-01-16
829546:US	52496677	R2YWMMWDBGDHI9	1410784312	358277294	I'm On My Way	Books	5	30	35	N	N	A Work of Honesty, Power, and Extraordinary Promise	Christopher David in I'M ON MY WAY has written a first novel that demands respect and attention.  Rarely has a young writer pounced on the scene with such a pungent, searing understanding and commitment in writing a book about a slice of life that has for years been no man's land.  Other African American writers have addressed gay life in their community from James Baldwin, Lee Hayes, Caesar Brunswick et al, but as far as placing the reader deeply within the milieu, the language, the special struggles that surround the gay black man, Christopher David has the edge.<br />David divides his book into chapters that are named for the individual characters - Jared, Jason, Kevin, Diogenes - and it is through their eyes and words that the story of searching for the perfect relationship  unfolds.  The primary character is Jared and he is the one around whom all the varied tales of love and disappointment, grief, lust and need swirl.  Each of these men are interesting, different, and as they each reveal their personal histories we are given insight into just what determines a successful relationship.  David addresses the African American styles, the lingo, AIDS, spousal abuse, family acceptance/rejection, the need for friendship and extended family, and in each of these areas he leaves no stone unturned.  We grow to love these men, loathe some of their ex-loves, and finally we grow to understand the importance of loving one's self as the most potent requirement in forming lasting and meaningful partnering.<br />This is a first novel and Christopher David tackles a theme that is at first seemingly isolated to a special group.  He eventually leads us to universals and closes his book with an author's note that is from a truly beautiful soul.  In time he will spend less time on \\"in-group dialogue\\" and more time on plot.  What is missing here is an editor more attentive to spelling and punctuation and the details that surround a first book.  All of that will come.  Christopher David will succeed where some others have failed.  It is in his will and his passion.  A very fine first novel!vid will succeed where some others have failed.  It is in his will and his passion.  A very fine first novel!	2004-01-12
833152:US	52496677	R331E0KM2QANO1	0847825868	222053078	Germaine Greer : The Beautiful Boy	Books	5	34	46	N	Y	A Beautiful and Engrossing Book	THE BEAUTIFUL BOY by noted writer, critic and feminist Germaine Greer is one of the more refreshing art volumes to grace the shelves in the past decade.  Yes, this is a lavishly illustrated portfolio of paintings, drawings and photographs of boys before they become men, but the point of departure here is that Greer is examining a perception process among women paralleling the historic depiction of the beautiful boy. This, then, is an historic survey, but it is also a psychosocial treatise written with careful attention to detail, wry humor, and joyful discovery.  This book deserves a very wide audience.<br />Setting the mood for her lovely thought process, Greer opens her introduction with  these words: \\"Part of the purpose of this book is to advance women's reclamation of their capacity for and right to visual pleasure.  The nineteenth century denied women any active interest in sex, which was only to be found in degenerate types.  By the end of the twentieth century female appetite for sexual stimulus had been recognized and platoons of male strippers mobilized to take commercial advantage of it.  That health appetite should now be refined by taste.  If we but lift our eyes to the beautiful images of young men that stand all about us, there is a world of complex and civilized pleasure to be had.  Delight in the boy can only be sharpened by the pathos and irony of his condition of becomingness.  What we see in life is gone before we have had time to appreciate it.  It is only in art that the compelling evanescent charm of boyhood can be preserved against the ravages of time.\\"<br />Greer then proceeds to present her illustrated point of view of the prominence of the boy nude as the epitome of beauty, drawn from life long before the idealized female nudes were depicted from artists' imagination. She studies the sculpture and paintings of the Greeks, the paintings of the Baroque and Renaissance, the Romantic period, and the Contemporary art which now includes photography.  In each period she manages to suffuse the images with her inimitable thoughts of the slow development of Feminisim in a way that every reader at last can understand. No preaching here, just a gradual unveiling of opportunites for women (and men alike) to really SEE the male body in that transient period between chubby child and muscular postpubescent man.  She summarizes:  \\"If, as I have argued, art is fundamentally narcissitic and elegiac, the female artist could only celebrate herself when young by painting and photographing younger women......When the body a woman artist is contemplating is so obviously not and never hers, because it is male, her approach is necessarily conflicted, even confrontational.  Simple sensuality is able to function as a medium through which to see and celebrate the child but not, it seems, the man.  The boy is the forgotten middle term.  The boy Eros would bring the sexes to a reconciliation, if we would only acknowledge him.\\"<br />Couple these words of wisdom with first class color reproduction and printing of art both familiar and unfamiliar and we have a book that should appeal to the entire art loving community - feminists, gay men, scholars, and students at all stages in creating art.  THE BEAYTIFUL BOY is a beautiful book!phy.  In each period she manages to suffuse the images with her inimitable thoughts of the slow development of Feminisim in a way that every reader at last can understand. No preaching here, just a gradual unveiling of opportunites for women (and men alike) to really SEE the male body in that transient period between chubby child and muscular postpubescent man.  She summarizes:  \\"If, as I have argued, art is fundamentally narcissitic and elegiac, the female artist could only celebrate herself when young by painting and photographing younger women......When the body a woman artist is contemplating is so obviously not and never hers, because it is male, her approach is necessarily conflicted, even confrontational.  Simple sensuality is able to function as a medium through which to see and celebrate the child but not, it seems, the man.  The boy is the forgotten middle term.  The boy Eros would bring the sexes to a reconciliation, if we would only acknowledge him.\\"<br />Couple these words of wisdom with first class color reproduction and printing of art both familiar and unfamiliar and we have a book that should appeal to the entire art loving community - feminists, gay men, scholars, and students at all stages in creating art.  THE BEAYTIFUL BOY is a beautiful book!	2004-01-10
837379:US	52496677	R2EDD3MHKF6UXX	1592580335	197501207	Erotica: The Fine Art of Sex	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	A Reprise	Edward Lucie-Smith continues to write books that embrace all aspects of art and this current release is not exception.  Originally released in 1997 by Rizzoli having been produced by The Ivy Press in the UK with the title ARS EROTICA: AN AROUSING HISTORY OF EROTIC ART, this book remains intact in the St. Martin's Press release.  The quality of the paper and the quality of the art reproductions is of the highest nature.<br />Lucie-Smith has the gift to inform conversationally as he writes about the history of eroticism in art. His writing includes excerpts from poems, novels, articles, and quotations that are liberally reproduced throughout this extremely visual book.  The overview of erotic art is divided into chapters: Sex in the Head, Naked as Adam, Naked as Eve, Loves of the Gods, Down to Earth, Looking On (voyeurism), Boys will be Boys, Women in Love, En plein Air, Solitary Pleasures (onanism), Coming Together (group sex), All Change (gender alterations as well as costumes), and Love Hurts (sadomasochism).  He has selected a wide range of artists - painters, sculptors, printmakers, photographers - who truly span the timeline with titillations form Egyptian and Greek imagery to present day practitioners of Eroticism.<br />Lucie-Smith may concentrate on potentially over-the-top images, but he never loses sight of his mission to inform.  His writing is lucid, often humorous and equally often deeply thoughtful when challenging the mores of our time.  A fun and very informative book.	2004-01-07
837784:US	52496677	R1M8JEWJPW6TKN	0374227306	836307290	Genesis: A Novel (Crace, Jim)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	And after all the quashing there remains a tale	GENESIS may not live up to Jim Crace's monumental peak of writing he reached with BEING DEAD, but I think it deserves much more examination than those who dismiss it as a work of Ego onanism.  The very nature of the story of an Actor who struts the stage and movie screen but is shackled in his personal life by his inability to connect to the women with whom he finds himself is perhaps too obvious a metaphor for men today, but it is a well developed metaphorical journey none the less.  The majority of the action takes place in a 'magical realism' atmosphere - The City of Kisses - which is besieged by bizarre police activities, odd floods, and bohemian eateries and bars that bounce us back and forth in time as well as place. Our Actor (Lix, to give him his name) is cursed with being hyperfertile, so much so that every women with  whom he copulates becomes pregnant immediately.  How Lix manages these various (six in number) affairs and marriages and the offspring that result from his curse is the line of story we follow - or try to.  Were it not for the glorious word working such as 'Love is enacted by small things.  Love is what you do with what you've got.' and 'No one's to blame, but passion is not intended to endure.  The overture is short or else it's not the overture. Nor is marriage meant to be perfect.  It has to toughen on its blemishes.  It has to morph and change its shape and turn its insides out and move beyond the passion that is the architect.  Falling in love is not being in love.  Waiting for the perfect partner is self-sabotage.' then perhaps this book would not deserve our close attention.  And I think it does.<br />When passages such as these are used for a moment of meditation, then GENESIS has a lot to say about how we are functioning in this discombobulated world.. And if Jim Crace does only that - makes us stop for a moment and observe the Human Comedy - then reading this book has its rewards. Let's see where he goes next.	2004-01-07
849822:US	52496677	R1MHCYS8SBY08R	1843430355	372015365	By Night in Chile	Books	5	97	105	N	N	A wondrous reverie - rich and strange.........	Roberto Bolano, alas, died this year.  BY NIGHT IN CHILE is his only work translated into English (very sensuously and beautifully by Chris Andrews) despite the fact that he wrote nine novels, short stories and poetry in Spanish.  Chilean by birth, but expatriated to Barcelona and Mexico City because of political issues, Bolano is an enormously gifted, unique voice.  Hopefully Chris Andrews will continue to translate his other works for us as I know the reading public will demand more Bolano after reading this short novel.<br />In a brief but densely packed 130 pages, Bolano takes the voice of Fr. Urrutia who on his deathbed tries to organize the chaotic thoughts that have represented his life before he enters the ultimate climax of death.  We learn of his childhood as a poor boy who longed to be a poet, his conversion to the priesthood, his contribution to the literary world of not only his own poems but literary criticism or other writers, and his rather bizarre ramblings of this life adventures - his 'assignment' to unravel the workings of the Opus Dei (with an hilarious metaphor of each church throughout Europe training a falcon to destroy the pigeons  in order to keep the buildings free of pigeon excrement only to realize they were destroying the universal symbol of the Holy Spirit!), his conversations with the Chilean critic Farewell, meetings with Pablo Neruda, and his assignment to teach Marxism to Pinochet and the Junta after the fall of Allende, and more. All of this glowing stream of conscience is delivered in words and phrases that stand with the finest of writers - James Joyce, ee cumings, Ezra Pound, Neruda, Marquez - but at the same time they retain  flavor which makes them uniquely Chilean. &quot;...I cannot have been properly awake, for deep in my brain I could hear the voices of popes, like the distant screeching of a flock of birds, a clear sign that part of my mind was still dreaming or obstinately refusing to emerge from the labyrinth of dreams, that parade ground where the wizened youth [himself as a child] is hiding, along with the dead poets who were living then, and who now, against the certainty of imminent oblivion, are erecting a miserable crypt in my cranial vault, building it with their names....&quot;  or: &quot;...flocks of starlings....appeared again like a lightening bolt, ...and stooped on the huge flocks of starlings coming out of the west like swarms of flies, darkening the sky with their erratic fluttering, and after a few minutes the fluttering of the starlings was bloodied, scattered and bloodied, and afternoon on the outskirts of Avignon took on a deep red hue, like the colour of sunsets seen from an aeroplane, or the colour of dawns, when the passenger is woken gently........and lifts up the little blind and sees the horizon marked with a red line, like the planet's femoral artery, or of the planet's aorta...&quot;<br />These are but too brief abstracts of Bolano's luxuriant writing ( and Andrews' equally gifted translation!) that flow unceasingly from this richly succinct masterwork.  This is easily one of the more rewarding new books I have read and I could not recommend it more highly.  Read it all in one sitting..and I would gently wager you will immediately re-read it.that parade ground where the wizened youth [himself as a child] is hiding, along with the dead poets who were living then, and who now, against the certainty of imminent oblivion, are erecting a miserable crypt in my cranial vault, building it with their names....&quot;   or: &quot;...flocks of starlings....appeared again like a lightening bolt, ...and stooped on the huge flocks of starlings coming out of the west like swarms of flies, darkening the sky with their erratic fluttering, and after a few minutes the fluttering of the starlings was bloodied, scattered and bloodied, and afternoon on the outskirts of Avignon took on a deep red hue, like the colour of sunsets seen from an aeroplane, or the colour of dawns, when the passenger is woken gently........and lifts up the little blind and sees the horizon marked with a red line, like the planet's femoral artery, or of the planet's aorta...&quot;<br />These are but too brief abstracts of Bolano's luxuriant writing ( and Andrews' equally gifted translation!) that flow unceasingly from this richly succinct masterwork.  This is easily one of the more rewarding new books I have read and I could not recommend it more highly.  Read it all in one sitting..and I would gently wager you will immediately re-read it.	2003-12-29
850315:US	52496677	R1T2DFYAKIZG63	0972082115	845551770	Azucar! The Story of Sugar	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Introducing A Masterful Storyteller !	AZUCAR! The Story of Sugar is one of those 'first novels' that is so naturally excellent that it suggests a mind gifted for writing.  If ever there was a novel that captured the rhythms and flavors of the Caribbean, the historical clashes and traumas of the quasi-slave market industry of sugar production, all as a stage setting for the introduction of some of the more unforgettable characters you are likely to meet in a modern novel, then this is clearly the book to read and the author to watch.  Few authors can weave the interactions of such dissimilar characters as the child Azucar, her grandmother guardian who lives with the spirits of the islands richly imbedded in her personality, the multiethnic workers gathered from all the Caribbean Islands to live in the squalor of the 'batey' and be at the mercy of the plantation owners who for the most part abuse them daily, the bestiality of the sons of the Don, to the special souls of those who give Azucar succour in her journey from raped motherhood to intellectual and spiritual supremacy.  Alan Cambeira glues us to the pages of this spellbinding story until the final page.<br />Here are characters we can love, characters we can loathe, and most importantly here is a story about the value of the individual spirit in tune with the magical spiritual world of the islands.  Cambeira wisely mixes his pages with phrases in Spanish, French, and Creole, and allows us to learn the music of these languages as they enhance his tale. Unlike some authors he willingly either translates the languages directly or indirectly so that the reader is never at a loss for appreciating this technique.  He addresses such issues as 'slavery', ancestry, gay relationships,...and manages to be convincing in every arena.<br />At times Cambeira drives his stories of the abuse of the sugar workers a bit too far and perhaps dwells a bit too long on descriptions of table settings and food of the well to do, but these are minor faults in telling a fine story.  One wishes for a more assertive hand from an editor to polish this special gem so that every facet is appreciated, to soften the too perfect resolution of the story,  but that will come.  Kudos to Julio Belen for publishing and promoting this enormously fine book.  There is very definitely an audience for this richly eloquent book...and a film of his story seems a natural!ine story.  One wishes for a more assertive hand from an editor to polish this special gem so that every facet is appreciated, to soften the too perfect resolution of the story,  but that will come.  Kudos to Julio Belen for publishing and promoting this enormously fine book.  There is very definitely an audience for this richly eloquent book...and a film of his story seems a natural!	2003-12-29
850507:US	52496677	R277K6BTMP9WWQ	0810957310	870273643	Sensational Bouquets by Christian Tortu: Arrangements by a Master Floral Designer	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Indulge your Eye and Insight	SENSATIONAL BOUQUETS BY CHRISTIAN TORTU is a visual treat as well as a learning inspiration for approaching that most personal craft of bringing the garden into the home - gathering and arranging flowers.  Christian Tortu apparently has a following in Paris where he has a florist shop which has emphasized his creed of &quot;All plants are born free and created equal.&quot;  Having learned his craft and his passion for the natural garden from his parents as he matured in the Anjou gardens, gathering flowers from nature to place at the disposal of clients who yearn for the beauty of the garden to enter their home in ways other than window views, Tortu doesn't believe in the traditional 'sprays' of flowers place in an expensive family heirloom vase on a sterile table.  Instead he combines fruit, vines, all phases of a flower's life ( bud, blossom, denuded vestige ) with grasses and all the elements found in the natural setting of his flowers.  The results are lush, compact, original thoughts that are startlingly beautiful.<br />This is writer Corine Delahaze's first outing and she shows promise of a fine observor and poet.  The photography is by Sylvain Thomas and emphasizes the closeup details as well as the free-standing wonders of Tortu's designs.  The combination of text and photographs balances well with Tortu's creations.  There is much more to learn about nature than just an ordinary treatise on flower arranging here.  In Tortu's words &quot;Nature is a place of  total freedom.  All plant life is accepted as equal.&quot; And from this humble belief Tortu lifts the spirit as well as the imagination with his artist's gift.	2003-12-29
858929:US	52496677	R34E67IP5JFTGL	1585671320	643154476	Venice 697-1797: A City, A Republic, An Empire	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Serenissima: Venice from an Insider's Vantage	VENICE 697 - 1797: A City, A Republic, An Empire is as satisfying an overview of the supreme city of Venice, Italy as is available. Other books may be more academically researched, written and presented and other books on the various aspects of this ageless city - its art, architecture, Carnivale expositions, idiosyncratic glass, music - are definitely more complete.  But the primary reason for the success of this book is in the writing by Alvise Zorzi, a resident of Venice who treats us to a personal tour of what makes Venice so magical.  Richly illustrated, wisely paced with interesting sidebars during the history portions, Zorzi relates the treasures of Venice with an endearing love that makes both known and new facts a joy to visit. At the end of this book he has created glossaries of terms, of the lineage of Doges, a fine chronology, and (with a tender bit of pride) a list of the Venetian Patriciate that of course lists existing families of noble birth as of 1999!  Quite frankly Zorzi has the gift to crystallize the stages in Venice's development as a capital of Europe more meaningfully than other writers' compendia. We can only hope that he elects to present us with &quot;Venice 1797 to 2004&quot; and help us understand this enigmatic, slowly sinking jewel that has attracted lovers, poets, painters, musicians and writers for centuries from his present day stance. A beautiful book for any collection!	2003-12-20
860043:US	52496677	R3H4KAHAH27R7U	0801874270	514124525	Mortal Secrets: Truth and Lies in the Age of AIDS	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A worthwhile project, but less a Book than a Dissertation	MORTAL SECRETS: Truth and Lies in the Age of AIDS is a book that is much needed as we read about the disheartening upswing of the AIDS pandemic. Now that so many new drugs are available and now that living with AIDS is a reality instead of an unachievable goal (as we all wait for a vaccine and a cure), this is an opportune moment for addressing the psychological and ethical issues faced by both HIV positive and HIV negative persons. What Drs. Klitzman and Bayer (a Psychiatrist/Bioethicist and a professor of sociomedical sciences) set out to do is make observations based on interviews with gays, bisexuals, straight people with histories involving drug use and prostitution (or partnered with one from these groups) on several topics: transmission of the disease, attitudes about getting tested, about being positive, about disclosure to partners, parents, extended family, co-workers, and the public at large, and the painful struggle about making moral judgments as to when to disclose positivity to sexual partners, etc.<br /><br />The introduction is levelheaded, the interviews are isolated paragraphs instead of two-way conversations, and the presentation of the data and the opinions of the writers is fairly dry and flat. Knowing this is an investigatory, extended paper makes the reader finally absorb the material as though for a class in college. Not that this is at all bad: I think this book will provide a good reference for future works whether they be fact based or novel enhanced. One wishes for more writing like the following sentence in the closing paragraph: \\"Shame, desire, passion, fear of abandonment, lures of secrecy, vicissitudes of moral character, and qualities of relationships all mold private life and individuals' willingness to talk about HIV. Policy Makers can shape the context of private choice, but the exercise of such choice remains beyond their control.\\"<br />In writing about this most devastating of diseases one hopes for more passion on the part of the writers. How do these men really feel about the pandemic? There really are no \\"Conclusions\\" here. But then, again, this is more a dissertation than a support session.e writers. How do these men really feel about the pandemic? There really are no \\"Conclusions\\" here. But then, again, this is more a dissertation than a support session.	2003-12-19
869241:US	52496677	R84OR441BFBUX	3822889040	416357073	What Great Paintings Say: Old Masters in Detail, Vol. 2	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Looking at Paintings and Seeing History	Rose-Marie and Rainer Hagen have done their research in examining paintings throughout time and have created two extraordinary volumes that invite us into the Art Appreciation Theater of an honored university of learning. Their biographies are strangely missing from these books: we can only surmise that these two fine art historians have spent countless hours in the museums of the world. The fruit of their labor is a world of revealed details secreted within the masterpieces we 'thought' we knew.<br />The technique: Introduce a complete painting, give a thorough background about the time in which it was created and the artist who created it, and then from isolated windows, fill the remaining pages about that painting with details that not only address the painter's technique but also make commentary on the social mores, theological and philosophical concepts often at odds with the casual audience perceptual skills, and in general open vistas of enjoyment and insight to even the most experienced viewer. The Hagens have managed to gossip a bit, chide and joke a bit, and in the end offer us insights into exactly 'what great paintings say!.'<br />Most of the paintings scrutinized are the large panoramas of, for example, Rembrandt ('The Anatomy Lesson of Dr Tulp', 'Balshazzar's Feast'), Rubens ('The Love Garden' with the foggy details of Venus milking her breats as fountains!) van Eyck ('Adoration of the Lamb') Poussin, Goya, etc. In addition to famous masters, the Hagens bring to light such lesser known greats as Francisco Pradilla y Ortiz, a &quot;Netherlandish master,&quot; Johannes Heinrich Wilhelm Tischbein, and Ilya Repin to mention only a few.<br />One of the marvels of this collection is the consummate attention paid Courbet's 1855 &quot;The Studio&quot; which depicts a painter at easel, his model, the commissioners of the painting, royalty and peasants - all painted with adoring detail. It definitely is a statement of the artist's political standpoint!<br />Technically the books are rich in color, creatively designed and close to color-correct. There is much to be enjoyed here and even more to advance the understanding and appreciation of art. A true gift!ly the books are rich in color, creatively designed and close to color-correct. There is much to be enjoyed here and even more to advance the understanding and appreciation of art. A true gift!	2003-12-10
869719:US	52496677	R1RLON9MMF22IQ	3822813729	248050533	What Great Paintings Say, Vol. 2	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Looking at Paintings and Seeing History	Rose-Marie and Rainer Hagen have done their research in examining paintings throughout time and have created two extraordinary volumes that invite us into the Art Appreciation Theater of an honored university of learning.  Their biographies are strangely missing from these books: we can only surmise that these two fine art historians have spent countless hours in the museums of the world.  The fruit of their labor is a world of revealed details secreted within the masterpieces we 'thought' we knew.<br />The technique:  Introduce a complete painting, give a thorough background about the time in which it was created and the artist who created it, and then from isolated windows, fill the remaining pages about that painting with details that not only address the painter's technique but also make commentary on the social mores, theological and philosophical concepts often at odds with the casual audience perceptual skills, and in general open vistas of enjoyment and insight to even the most experienced viewer. The Hagens have managed to gossip a bit, chide and joke a bit, and in the end offer us insights into exactly 'what great paintings say!.'<br />Most of the paintings scrutinized are the large panoramas of, for example, Rembrandt ('The Anatomy Lesson of Dr Tulp', 'Balshazzar's Feast'), Rubens ('The Love Garden' with the foggy details of Venus milking her breats as fountains!) van Eyck ('Adoration of the Lamb') Poussin, Goya, etc.  In addition to famous masters, the Hagens bring to light such lesser known greats as Francisco Pradilla y Ortiz, a &quot;Netherlandish master,&quot; Johannes Heinrich Wilhelm Tischbein, and Ilya Repin to mention only a few.<br />One of the marvels of this collection is the consummate attention paid Courbet's 1855 &quot;The Studio&quot; which depicts a painter at easel, his model, the commissioners of the painting, royalty and peasants - all painted with adoring detail.  It definitely is a statement of the artist's political standpoint!<br />Technically the books are rich in color, creatively designed and close to color-correct.  There is much to be enjoyed here and even more to advance the understanding and appreciation of art.  A true gift!>Technically the books are rich in color, creatively designed and close to color-correct.  There is much to be enjoyed here and even more to advance the understanding and appreciation of art.  A true gift!	2003-12-10
872034:US	52496677	RDRGI0A13284O	0060530758	743465468	Art: A New History	Books	5	26	28	N	N	A Joyfully Fascinating Guide to Looking at Art	As the attendance at museum shows increases each year, at least attendance to the blockbusters like Impressionism, Van Gogh, Lucien Freud, John Singer Sargent, etc, there seems to be an encouraging awakening to the importance of art here in the USA.  And for those who have boarded the bandwagon as well as those who are intimidated by the vastness of knowledge believed necessary to enjoy art, welcome to Paul Johnson's immensely readable tome ART: A NEW HISTORY.  The operative word here of course is 'New' and plays a fine bit of anachronism; how can 'History' be 'New'?  Read the opening page of this huge tome and the answer (as a consistent beginning to a novel-like history book) is there. \\"I argue here that art predated not only writing but probably structured speech, too, that it was closely associated with the ordering instinct which makes society possible, and that it has therefore always been essential to human happiness.  The artist was the first professional.....if we succeed in recovering the context [of art], we still have to see through the work into the mind of the artist who made it.  This is where the real business of appreciating art begins.  Artists are real people....etc\\"<br />And so Johnson begins his magical journey through the entire history of art.  \\"...it must never be forgotten that art was instinctively created by humanity to assist the process of ordering, and so understanding and mastering, the wild world of nature....For once art loses its fundamental order, it becomes disorderly and therefore ceases to sustain a moral society and may, in  fact, become a menace to our happiness.\\"  He then sums up his very personal views about the book he has created by stating: \\"..the love of art is a subjective phenomenon, which comes to us through our sympathetic eye, and no expert should be allowed to mediate......We should use our own eyes, train them, trust them.  This book is specifically designed to aid the process.\\"<br />From this warm and encouraging stance, Johnson then launches into a thorough, historically accurate survey of art history.  He does this with a profound understanding of History of Civilization and embroiders his discussion of artists and art pieces, architecture, sculpture, etc with this rich background while he visits many individual artists with humorous and very personal insights.  While extolling the majesty of such greats as Michelangelo, da Vinci, Caravaggio, Eakins, Hockney etc he slips in tales of their sexual preferences and how those preferences affected their art and their lives. And he always keeps his writings in the context of the times he is visiting. For instance,  \\"It was one of the virtues of the Italian ruling class, and a great source of strength for her artists, that rulers loved them, understood their work, gave them not only money but friendship and support in times of need - indeed, often put up with tantrums and rages.\\"<br />It is this style of writing that allows, indeed encourages, the reader to discover the magnificence of art while learning enough about the creators to find memory associations that will make the contents of this massive book last far beyond the closure of the last page. He chooses his well-reproduced illustrations wisely. His discussion of Caravaggio's visceral vision, of Sargent's preoccupation with light source and reflection, of Turner's preference for watercolor over oil, of many 20th century artists forgetting the paths to representing order when it was most needed - all of these become conversations that read like a fine novel.  One could write for pages praising the warmth of this very significant book, but the better choice would be to simply encourage everyone who is in any way involved with art and art appreciation to buy this book.  Here are hours of re-readable information that will serve us well for years to come.  VERY HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!stance, Johnson then launches into a thorough, historically accurate survey of art history.  He does this with a profound understanding of History of Civilization and embroiders his discussion of artists and art pieces, architecture, sculpture, etc with this rich background while he visits many individual artists with humorous and very personal insights.  While extolling the majesty of such greats as Michelangelo, da Vinci, Caravaggio, Eakins, Hockney etc he slips in tales of their sexual preferences and how those preferences affected their art and their lives. And he always keeps his writings in the context of the times he is visiting. For instance,  \\"It was one of the virtues of the Italian ruling class, and a great source of strength for her artists, that rulers loved them, understood their work, gave them not only money but friendship and support in times of need - indeed, often put up with tantrums and rages.\\"<br />It is this style of writing that allows, indeed encourages, the reader to discover the magnificence of art while learning enough about the creators to find memory associations that will make the contents of this massive book last far beyond the closure of the last page. He chooses his well-reproduced illustrations wisely. His discussion of Caravaggio's visceral vision, of Sargent's preoccupation with light source and reflection, of Turner's preference for watercolor over oil, of many 20th century artists forgetting the paths to representing order when it was most needed - all of these become conversations that read like a fine novel.  One could write for pages praising the warmth of this very significant book, but the better choice would be to simply encourage everyone who is in any way involved with art and art appreciation to buy this book.  Here are hours of re-readable information that will serve us well for years to come.  VERY HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!	2003-12-08
875667:US	52496677	R2PZWLFJD1R802	1593090064	123521476	Passion Marks: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The Sanctity of a First Novel	Lee Hayes: make note of the name. In PASSION MARKS we have a first novel that manages to hurdle most of the bumps associated with the initial, anxious bow of the novice and that gives solid introduction to a man who obviously has the gift of writing.<br />Lee Hayes writes very well. He knows how to find a storyline, embroider the edges with apropos incidents and character introductions that he never forsakes but instead incorporates them into his driving technique of development.  There is little wasted verbiage here: those diversions that may appear as self-serving when first encountered are all melded to a crescendo effect in bringing the story to a fast-paced climax.<br />Hayes bravely opens the door of his career by writing about topics that most writers fear: the African American  gay community (down-low brothers), spousal abuse, right to life choices, corporate greed and folly, suicide - it is all here.  Writing about a young man grieving for the loss of his identical twin (Keevan) whose death we learn has painful overtones, an idealistic gay man (Kevin) who happens to partner with a powerful executive man (James) with a tragic childhood history who in a bipolar way moves from wealthy and passionate lover to incredibly brutal abuser, this setting makes for tough reading for the naive.  But for those willing to jump on the roller coaster ride, this is one of those stories that almost demands nonstop reading until the finish.  Along the way we meet beautifully drawn extended family members who are rightfully given prominence as the people who truly care for the torn Kevin. When Kevin finally gathers the courage to end the abusive relationship with James and find happiness with a decent man, the story propels with such velocity that it is truly a page turner.<br />This is a very fine first novel and I feel Hayes will gain stature with every 'next book' he is bound to write.  I would hope that his next story would take the lead character out of the first person stance; there are many times when this story feels like a memoir and as such the character's continuing battles with what seems obvious as a bad relationship makes him a Victim - and that is unfortunate.  Perhaps the story would have less need to mention 'brand names' in clothing, shoes, cars, cologne etc that create a sense of unnecessary 'decoration'<br />to the plot.  One would also hope that the Editor (and bless her for believing in this talented young author) would have better copyreaders and avoid the many typos and misspelled words that have the tendency to stop the eye and hence detract from the story.<br />But riding over these bumps is so very much worth the journey.  Lee Hayes has a good story to tell, and he tells is with clarity, insight, and all the promise of fine technique. For a first novel this is hallowed ground. I am very happy to see the ranks of African American writers (James Baldwin, Toni Morrison, E. Lynn Harris, etc )grow with writers of the potential of Lee Hayes.ance; there are many times when this story feels like a memoir and as such the character's continuing battles with what seems obvious as a bad relationship makes him a Victim - and that is unfortunate.  Perhaps the story would have less need to mention 'brand names' in clothing, shoes, cars, cologne etc that create a sense of unnecessary 'decoration'<BR>to the plot.  One would also hope that the Editor (and bless her for believing in this talented young author) would have better copyreaders and avoid the many typos and misspelled words that have the tendency to stop the eye and hence detract from the story.<br />But riding over these bumps is so very much worth the journey.  Lee Hayes has a good story to tell, and he tells is with clarity, insight, and all the promise of fine technique. For a first novel this is hallowed ground. I am very happy to see the ranks of African American writers (James Baldwin, Toni Morrison, E. Lynn Harris, etc )grow with writers of the potential of Lee Hayes.	2003-12-05
880408:US	52496677	R2IGJN04BGSOCQ	0972429514	657192826	No Revenge So Complete	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Simplicity and all its complications	Sarah Foulger is a name to remember, a writer of incredible sensitivity, a wholly human being who has the power to communicate the most basic aspects of the human spirit in poetic prose.  NO REVENGE SO COMPLETE is her first novel (though she has written short stories) and in this touchingly contemporary story she manages to make a case for survival, no easy task with the world in such a chaotic state.  This book is a beacon of comforting light, a story skillfully written that goes far beyond the chapters of her novel.<br />Foulger sets her characters and storyline with consummate ease, seducing us into an atmosphere of an apparently calm family in a quiet Long Island town.  The family she creates  - Stephen, a father whose ordered life seems a solid foundation for Corrine, his wife who blithely carries out her duties as mother while tending to patients as a Pediatric Nurse, and for his daughters Jane the attractive achiever and Helen the pudgy/gawky underdog - could be any family in anyplace in today's society, a sort of `Everyfamily', and therein lies the power of what Foulger follows in sensitively, thoroughly woven resolution. This microcosm of contemporary Americana crumbles when Stephen is discovered to not only have been adulterous but also has impregnated his lover - daughter Jane's highschool friend.  The repercussions of this act dismantles the family, causes powerful changes in all concerned, and in general seems to have produced insurmountable complications of anger, fear, loathing, desertion, and pain.  The remainder of the book slowly reveals how each member of this complicated cast finds strength and resolution through the act of forgiveness - both of others and of themselves.<br />What Foulger has done is quietly (and with remarkable skill) show us redemptive paths in dealing with our growingly chaotic lives, world, and universe.  Other authors have attempted to describe introspection and spiritual nurturing, but the results are usually preachy or so saccharine that the story collapses into the maudlin.  Few writers in this genre have the observation and communication skills Foulger retains throughout this book.  Her description of the sea, a garden, the wonder in children's hearts, and her development of wholly three-dimensional characters as disparate as any novel's cast is unique in its simplicity. Nothing is pushed, not even the dangerous entry of `a word from the wise clerics' which act as effective pivot points in her story.  This is a fine novel, an engrossing story, and a resource for regaining our sense of faith in mankind so needed at this time.  One hopes the public appeal  is wide for this fine book.saccharine that the story collapses into the maudlin.  Few writers in this genre have the observation and communication skills Foulger retains throughout this book.  Her description of the sea, a garden, the wonder in children's hearts, and her development of wholly three-dimensional characters as disparate as any novel's cast is unique in its simplicity. Nothing is pushed, not even the dangerous entry of `a word from the wise clerics' which act as effective pivot points in her story.  This is a fine novel, an engrossing story, and a resource for regaining our sense of faith in mankind so needed at this time.  One hopes the public appeal  is wide for this fine book.	2003-12-02
880619:US	52496677	RSERB3P685Y93	0786712473	182111504	The Real Tadzio: Thomas Mann's Death in Venice and the Boy Who Inspired It	Books	4	28	30	N	N	A Fascinating Approach to Art as Life vs. Life as Art	Thomas Mann's novella \\"Death in Venice\\" written in 1911 has proven to be one of the more enduring, widely read stories in all of 20th Century literature. Originally published by Mann in a selection of short stories, the tale is one of the clash of the Apollonian and Dionysian conflict in the guise of one Gustav von Aschenbach, dropping his wholly cerebral life, to fall in love with a young Polish lad (Tadzio, who represents earthly Dionysian beauty at the stage of puberty) in Venice, Italy when the threat of cholera threatened the life of the city. The story has captured the imagination of philosophers, readers, historians, thinkers concerned with gender studies - and musicians and filmmakers!<br />The story has been published in many languages, served as the subject for Luchino Visconti's hauntingly beautiful film (1971) by the same name, and resulted in Benjamin Britten's last opera (1973) also with the name \\"Death in Venice\\" in tact. Gender studies writers claim this novella to be one of the most successful stories of same sex love, and other famous writers took the lead from Mann in putting into novel form the 'unspeakable subject'. Gilbert Adair, a successful British writer (\\"Love and Death on Long Island\\" is a stunning book and was made into a fine film with the brilliant portrayal by John Hurt of the Thomas Mann-inspired character) has treated us with a significant bit of investigation and shows in well written prose and illustrated by many photographs that the story of \\"Death in Venice\\" is actually Mann's reporting on an incident that really did happen: Mann was in Venice in 1911, encountered a rich young Polish boy (one Wladyslaw Moes) while staying on the Lido, met all the same characters he later depicted, escaped the cholera epidemic that threatened Venice, felt the desire for the beautiful lad, but in Mann's case he did not die on the beach watching his desired young dream lad wandering away into the sea waves.<br />Adair then follows the life of the real 'Tadzio' through his wealthy years in Poland, his trials during the time between WWI and WWII, his loss of all of his wealth in the post war period including his incarceration in a POW camp, his marriage and subsequent loss of his son, his response to seeing himself depicted in Visconti's movie version of Mann's novella, and his subsequent death in 1986. This is a fine bit of history, well presented with accompanying photographs of \\"Tadzio\\", his friends, his family, and his disappearance into obscurity while his impetus for Thomas Mann's novella lives on. Adair also examines the Visconti film and the Britten opera and manages to tie a century's worth of information into a short, eminently readable book. This is a must read for everyone who has fallen in love with this famous story.'Tadzio' through his wealthy years in Poland, his trials during the time between WWI and WWII, his loss of all of his wealth in the post war period including his incarceration in a POW camp, his marriage and subsequent loss of his son, his response to seeing himself depicted in Visconti's movie version of Mann's novella, and his subsequent death in 1986. This is a fine bit of history, well presented with accompanying photographs of \\"Tadzio\\", his friends, his family, and his disappearance into obscurity while his impetus for Thomas Mann's novella lives on. Adair also examines the Visconti film and the Britten opera and manages to tie a century's worth of information into a short, eminently readable book. This is a must read for everyone who has fallen in love with this famous story.	2003-12-02
882359:US	52496677	R33AVYPU1EQQO7	0786712473	182111504	The Real Tadzio: Thomas Mann's Death in Venice and the Boy Who Inspired It	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A Fascinating Approach to Art is Life vs. Life is Art	Thomas Mann's novella \\"Death in Venice\\" written in 1911 has proven to be one of the more enduring, widely read stories in all of 20th Century literature.  Originally published by Mann in a selection of short stories, the tale is one of the clash of the Apollonian and Dionysian conflict in the guise of one Gustav von Aschenbach, dropping his wholly cerebral life, to fall in love with a young Polish lad (Tadzio, who represents earthly Dionysian beauty at the stage of puberty) in Venice, Italy when the threat of cholera threatened the life of the city. The story has captured the imagination of philosophers, readers, historians, thinkers concerned with gender studies - and musicians and filmmakers!<br />The story has been published in many languages, served as the subject for Luchino Visconti's hauntingly beautiful film (1971)by the same name, and resulted in Benjamin Britten's last opera (1973) also with the name \\"Death in Venice\\" in tact.  Gender studies writers claim this novella to be one of the most successful stories of same sex love, and other famous writers took the lead from Mann in putting into novel form the 'unspeakable subject'.  Gilbert Adair, a successful British writer (\\"Love and Death on Long Island\\" is a stunning book and was made into a fine film with the brilliant portrayal by John Hurt of the Thomas Mann-inspired character) has treated us with a significant bit of investigation and shows in well written prose and illustrated by many photographs that the story  of \\"Death in Venice\\" is actually Mann's reporting on an incident that really did happen: Mann was in Venice in 1911, encountered a rich young Polish boy (one Wladyslaw Moes) while staying on the Lido, met all the same characters he later depicted, escaped the cholera epidemic that threatened Venice, felt the desire for the beautiful lad, but in Mann's case he did not die on the beach watching his desired young dream lad wandering away into the sea waves.<br />Adair then follows the life of thereal 'Tadzio' through his wealthy years in Poland, his trials during the time between WWI and WWII, his loss of all of his wealth in the post war period icluding his incarceration in a POW camp, his marriage and subsequent loss of his son, his response to seeing himself depicted in Visconti's movie version of Mann's novella, and his subsequent death in 1986.  This is a fine bit of history, well presented with accompanying photographs of \\"Tadzio\\", his friends, his family, and his disappearance into obscurity while his impetus for Thomas Mann's novella lives on. Adair also examines the Visconti film and the Britten opera and manages to tie a century's worth of information into a short, eminently readable book.  This is a must read for everyone who has fallen in love with this famous story.	2003-12-01
883867:US	52496677	RH56NN94DRERZ	0060534621	330114902	The Movies of My Life	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Joy of Discovering	THE MOVIES OF MY LIFE is an introduction to this reader of the enormously gifted Chilean writer, Alberto Fuguet.  Just when you think you are aware of the majority of the truly gifted writers of today (and with a personal philosophy of being an audience for new music, new performers, new films, and first books I try to stay abreast of what is happening at this moment in history)up pops someone of the magnitude of Fuguet to offer a sense of wonder at the seemingly endless line of creativity that bubbles around us.<br />This book is classified as a 'novel' but it is so richly detailed and so closely parallels the life of the author (as far as where he has actually lived, traveled etc) that it feels more like a memoir.  Be that as it may, it is the style of writing that is unique, wholly entertaining, successful on every level of communication with the reader, and inventive in technique that enhances the story.  Well-outlined by other reviewers, the story is centered on one Beltran Soler who as an adult seismologist begins the book with a telephone conversation with his sister Manuela, who is in Chile, that hints at a family that is in disrepair.  Beltran appears to have put away his past in favor of studying earthquakes, concentrating on the subterranean fault lines that shift and destroy the earth's surfaces (in Chile, California, and in El Salvador ...etc)  In a layover in Los Angeles on a trip to Tokyo to lecture on earthquakes he encounters a woman who provides the stimulus for Beltran to re-examine his past life by comparing it to his favorite 50 movies.  At this point the book becomes a 'scientifically documented' list of a wide range of movies with names, cast, theater where viewed, year of movie, year of viewing - each only a matter of a few pages that stimulate Beltran to reassemble his past.  He lives in Encino, CA as a child then suddenly his family moves to Santiago de Chile where he does not know the language (despite his inheritance), has no friends like those who surrounded him in Encino acting out the movies that were the center of his life.  Through these brief memory capsules we learn this boys' entire life, his longings, his approaching into puberty, first love, and the surprising dismembering of his family unit.  The memories are at times hilarious, touching, dreamy, tragic and maturing.  And beneath it all is his early preoccupation with earthquakes.  As he begins his book he writes: &quot;People think these milestones are like earthquakes, the moments in which it all comes down, but the reality is that things are always rumbling.  During an earthquake, people feel all the fear they don't feel when, in their everyday lives, the ground is often taken for granted.  This is natural.  The human body was designed like an anti-seismic building; at most, we intuit that we're moving only because some bad's happening, but something else prevents us from grasping its true dimensions.  So, for all practical purpose, for most of us, nothing much happens.  Nothing. Some end up with damaged foundations, though the majority manage to weather if well enough.  It's only years later that we realize just how much of a tragedy it was that befell us, but by then it's too late.&quot;  And at the end he writes: &quot;Some people think that we fall out of touch with old friends or lovers or colleagues or relatives because they no longer have much in common with us. But that's not it.  We fall out of touch - we avoid them - because they remind us of a time that we have no desire to remember.&quot;  Small samples of this writer's gift with words and philosophy.<br />In this thoroughly entertaining 'story' of a family bounced back and forth between Chile and California propelling the move from childhood to adulthood of a sensitive child,  Alberto Fuguet manages to impart a rich dose of observations about all of our interactions with our past, our present, our memories and our current realities.  It is difficult to find words to express the wonder this young author stimulates on reading this book. A stunning introduction to an author of great importance.s the wonder this young author stimulates on reading this book. A stunning introduction to an author of great importance.	2003-11-29
887394:US	52496677	ROQFLRKKU9ZY1	3822817341	36117419	Leonardo da Vinci: Complete Paintings and Drawings	Books	5	14	17	N	N	A Magnificent Addition to the Library on Leonardo Da Vinci	LEONARDO DA VINCI: THE COMPLETE PAINTINGS AND DRAWINGS is a mammoth undertaking in concept and the product of this undertaking is physically mammoth!  The very large, heavy tome sets out to explore the history of one of the greatest minds, artists, thinkers, and seers of all time and in doing so we are presented with all of the paintings down to the brushstroke, all of the drawings which include notes and paper quality, and the many writings of this giant of a man.  Frank Zollner is an entertaining writer as well as a fine scholar.  The facts are all (mostly) here and they are related in an enormously readable fashion.  No dry data crunching here, just elegant prose that accompanies more visuals than you could ever imagine.<br />The three parts of the book are presented with equal importance: Part One is Da Vinci's life and his place in the historic and retrospective setting and contains many of his writings.  Part Two is the catalogue raissone for the paintings, both those well known and extant and some images of paintings that no longer exist. Part Three is devoted to the fascinating drawings of just about every subject imaginable.  Each is presented with grace, a touch of humor, and a sense of profound respect.<br />Other books on Da Vinci may boast better/more correct color reproduction and choices of cropping and layout, but for the sheer splendor of this great artist's output and influence on the world of art, religion, sociology and science, this book is going to be the benchmark for years to come.  A magnificent book for your table and a particularly elegant gift for your friends!	2003-11-26
891941:US	52496677	RVW2LC77QZ52O	0847825809	953032849	These United States	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Just when we desparately need this book	THESE UNITED STATES,  with a brief and tender and appropriate two page forward by Walter Cronkite, is a breathtakingly beautiful panorama of everything that is beautiful about America.  Beleaguered though this country may be in the eyes of its citizens and the eyes of the world beyond our shores, take respite and restoration in the large color photographs of the magnificent landscapes from Atlantic through the Midwest to the Pacific, from every season in our woods and forests, the snow-capped towers, the buildings and monuments, and the little town celebrations and very personal gifts that remind us of how magical is America the Beautiful.  Photographer Jakes Rajs is highly regarded for his photography from all the major magazines in the country and it seems he has culled the finest examples of his vision for this moving, tender, majestic portrait of The United Stetes.  Given its Limited Edition status I would urge all gift givers of art books to consider this very special volume both for your own home and for those you love.	2003-11-22
893004:US	52496677	R29O5XR7LTMX0U	0954459903	634146330	The Truth Will Set Us Free:  Armenians and Turks Reconciled	Books	5	4	7	N	N	The Power of the Written Word	Perhaps the most solid signal that communication among people who care about the world condition is the amount of attention the reading, interested, concerned people who take the time to read and respond to the reviews posted here on Amazon.com.  This international forum ignites the minds of all manner of thinkers and is obviously not simply a platform for finding books to read or films to view or recordings to hear.<br />After reviewing THE BURNING TIGRIS I have received beautifully constructed and emailed opinions from both sides of the 100 year old discussion of the Armenian genocide.  Now we have a book written in quiet, scholarly fashion that places these two poles on the same gaming table.  George Jerjian's terse but touching book THE TRUTH WILL SET US FREE: ARMENIANS AND TURKS RECONCILED may seem like a plea for a midground end to the argument as to whether or not the 'genocide' was indeed a genocide.  His book is conversational, backed by not only footnotes but by photocopies of documents he quotes.  He first relates the historical facts from as nonpartisan a view as he is able to construct about what happened in the first two decades of the 20th Century, when the Turks of the Ottoman Empire and the Armenians of Eastern Anatolia were in conflict.  He does this through an examination of known documents as well as a family history that reflects direct association  with the events (an Armenian family who was befriended by an important Turk during that time).  He then addresses the steps the world has taken to discover the truth about the occurrence of the Armenian genocide.  Having stated his case he commits the last third of his book to his &quot;dream solution&quot; which he hopes to resolve this painful bit of history: He believes that if the Turks admitted to the genocide and asked for forgiveness and offered compensation to the victims, then there could finally be a reconciliation of this divisive issue and perhaps a chance for peace at last.  In his words: &quot;Will this be enough to reach reconciliation? No.  Armenians will need to overcome their high expectations of what Turkish recognition of the genocide will mean and in turn, the Turks will need to overcome the serious limitations of their high school syllabus. Reconciliation can only take place when truth and truce are declared.  What happened cannot be undone, but we need not be prisoners of the past. The truth will set us - Armenian and Turk - free.&quot;<br />Perhaps some readers will find this little book simplistic.  But perhaps this book will infuse a positive influence on the way we all view what we perceive as Wrong vs Right.  At times it is the candle burning in the soul that gives the greater light.  Very much worth reading, no matter your current perception of Turk/Armenian dialogue.ds: &quot;Will this be enough to reach reconciliation? No.  Armenians will need to overcome their high expectations of what Turkish recognition of the genocide will mean and in turn, the Turks will need to overcome the serious limitations of their high school syllabus. Reconciliation can only take place when truth and truce are declared.  What happened cannot be undone, but we need not be prisoners of the past. The truth will set us - Armenian and Turk - free.&quot;<br />Perhaps some readers will find this little book simplistic.  But perhaps this book will infuse a positive influence on the way we all view what we perceive as Wrong vs Right.  At times it is the candle burning in the soul that gives the greater light.  Very much worth reading, no matter your current perception of Turk/Armenian dialogue.	2003-11-21
895476:US	52496677	RFDSEIPVNMCX3	0394580281	603262524	Goya	Books	5	72	79	N	Y	The Paramount Artist Biography	Throughout history we have examples of biographers so committed to the works of their artist subject that the reporting of the writer seems like the visual becoming oral.  Such is the case of James Lord and Giacometti, David Sylvester and Francis Bacon, and now  Robert Hughes and Jose de Goya y Lucientes.  Hughes new publication entitled simply GOYA is the zenith work in the line of brilliant art history writing, books that include 'The Shock of the New' and 'American Visions' as well as definitive books on artists Frank Auerbach and Lucian Freud.  His knowledge is both technically sophisticated and psychologically sound and he is a gifted writer in about any m&eacute;tier.<br /><br />But there is something more to this book than biography.  Goya has been important to Hughes throughout his life: his first art purchase as student in Australia was one of the etchings of Goya's `Capricho' series.  It wasn't until 1999, when Hughes came close to meeting death from an accident, was in a coma, then gradually recovered through a long series of debilitating therapies, that Hughes was able to overcome his writer's block and actually set about to write the biography of the artist who had become his obsession for years.  Hughes admits that it was probably this experience coupled with a vision of Goya himself that made him truly comprehend and incorporate Goya's life of reactionary to the Church, to the absurdity and viciousness of War, to the Inquisition, and to the social injustices he observed. And the interesting parallel of course is that Goya suffered physically not only due to complete deafness, but also to undiagnosed maladies that made his life a trial but did not stop his painting.<br /><br />Hughes writing style is urbane and conversational, informed and witty, impeccably researched and yet related as though the reader were sitting at the feet of an old longtime acquaintance of Goya.  He obviously is in awe of Goya's works, allows him the court portraits and tapestries that Goya endured for money, and makes it a point to examine each painting with fine scrutiny - finding every self portrait of the artist in paintings most other scholars have missed.  Rather that writing the life of Goya from his birth chronologically through to his death and epilogue, Hughes examines a life that is inevitably destined to paint the darkness of the Black Paintings and the Caprichos with frequent asides, a style that creates incredible energy in the telling of the life of this amazing artist.  Example: In 1980 Goya applied to a \\"proper institution\\" - the Royal Academy of Fine Arts of San Fernando  and his entrance exam was a painting entitled  \\"Crucified Christ\\".  Hughes:  \\"It is without much doubt the worst painting he ever did.  How could a man who would emerge, some thirty years later, as the most powerful reporter of human  anguish in all of Western art have produced this soapy piece of bondieuserie?  The ladylike body, unmarked by torment; the absence of any kind of empathy with what real bodies underwent in the course of flogging and crucifixion; the enervated \\"correctness\\" of pose - all this combines to convey a sort of sickly, moaning piety that, if it were not for the relative liveliness of the paint and its impeccable provenance, would make you doubt it was by Goya at all.\\"  These are not damning critical flagellations: these are the responses of a writer who knows his subject well.<br /><br />This richly illustrated volume (one only wishes the plates were larger) is well designed to keep pace with history, psychology, and a world timeline and it should be in the libraries of students, artists, art lovers, and scholars. In a line of important books, GOYA is most assuredly the finest product of the gifted Hughes' mind and pen.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.for money, and makes it a point to examine each painting with fine scrutiny - finding every self portrait of the artist in paintings most other scholars have missed.  Rather that writing the life of Goya from his birth chronologically through to his death and epilogue, Hughes examines a life that is inevitably destined to paint the darkness of the Black Paintings and the Caprichos with frequent asides, a style that creates incredible energy in the telling of the life of this amazing artist.  Example: In 1980 Goya applied to a \\"proper institution\\" - the Royal Academy of Fine Arts of San Fernando  and his entrance exam was a painting entitled  \\"Crucified Christ\\".   Hughes:  \\"It is without much doubt the worst painting he ever did.  How could a man who would emerge, some thirty years later, as the most powerful reporter of human  anguish in all of Western art have produced this soapy piece of bondieuserie?  The ladylike body, unmarked by torment; the absence of any kind of empathy with what real bodies underwent in the course of flogging and crucifixion; the enervated \\"correctness\\" of pose - all this combines to convey a sort of sickly, moaning piety that, if it were not for the relative liveliness of the paint and its impeccable provenance, would make you doubt it was by Goya at all.\\"  These are not damning critical flagellations: these are the responses of a writer who knows his subject well.    This richly illustrated volume (one only wishes the plates were larger) is well designed to keep pace with history, psychology, and a world timeline and it should be in the libraries of students, artists, art lovers, and scholars. In a line of important books, GOYA is most assuredly the finest product of the gifted Hughes' mind and pen.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.	2003-11-19
897713:US	52496677	R3HF71BJ23UTVC	3822863238	926281631	Vermeer	Books	5	20	23	N	N	A succinct but dazzling portfolio of Vermeer	Norbert Schneider has written many excellent books on art and among them is this small volume in which he addresses ALL of the paintings of Vermeer.  Though the book is short (96 pages) it mirrors the output of the artist - he only painted thirty five works!  Schneider's commentary is intelligent, brief, and in obvious adoration of the Dutch School of painting and Vermeer in particular.  Not only is each painting reproduced with surprising accuracy of color and clarity, but Schneider provides many details of each work, opening the Pandora's box of each of these little masterpieces with microscopic precision.  As is gratefully the tradition at Taschen Books, the price is so affordable that in addition to adding to your own library, this very special art book can be an elegant and  dignified gift for your friends!	2003-11-17
898073:US	52496677	RF4XLG9SEZKVQ	1567996647	315402747	Mythology: Tales of Ancient Civilizations	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Fundamental Reader Regarding Mythology	In this beautifuly designed and illustrated book the mythologies of the ancient civilizations of the world are related in very readable fashion, capturing just the right amount of drama to create the feeling of reading a novel.  There is a major emphasis on drawings and paintings of all eras that either directly reference particular myths or use those myths as subtle references for more contemporary depictions.  The quality of research and writing is excellent.  If there is one major shortcoming in this book it is only in the relatively small amount of discussion about controversial myths and the variable historical validity of myth referencing.  But then what are myths if not arbitrary explanations for the mysteries that  helped explain the universe before the advent of modern science?  This is a fine reference book, a lovely art book, and an affordable coffee table book I would place on a list of &quot;Books as Gifts&quot; for the art lovers.	2003-11-17
899896:US	52496677	R1FK2D3WOKEO9T	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	An escapist's dream	THE DA VINCI CODE has been on the top of the best-seller list for so long that I finally decided to read it and see why. The story of the book is common knowledge by this time so that much  of the mystery author Dan Brown traces so well is now a bit passe.  But THE DA VINCI CODE brings to light a few important lessons that inform about the reading public: first, there is obviously a large audience for 'who-dunnit' mysteries, second, there must be at least a little interest in matters ecclesiastic for a novel based on the Catholic Church/Knights Templar/Holy Grail/Opus Dei etc, and third (thankfully) there is evidence that the public is willing to dig in to a bit of art history and controversy that is in fact much more interesting that the information in the media today.  As far as a book is concerned, Dan Brown begins his &quot;Novel&quot; with a FACT sheet: &quot;All descriptions of artwork, architecture, documents, and secret rituals [Opus Dei, Priory of Sion, Vatican, etc]in this novel are accurate&quot;.  That alone makes this book in evidence of a lot of research.  The action takes place in approximately 24 hours but the pace of the tale from France to England and back is breathless.  While the delivery of the story is at the speed of breaking the sound barrier, with the accompanying 'can't-put-it-down' reading situation, Brown doesn't really write with elegant prose, or make his caper characters much more than chessboard pawns as far as fleshing them out into people about whom we care.  This is not a book for those who love to languish in the beauty of the English language: there are no truly memorable passages that beg to be re-read because of their beauty of expression.  But given that, this is an obvious crowd pleaser and seems a sure bet for a movie - if Mel Gibson's PASSION doesn't steal  all its thunder.<br />Writers write for different reasons; readers seek books for different needs.  THE DA VINCI CODE  is a fine escapist route to take on a plane trip or to devour when the world is too much with us.  Great literature it is not - and that really is OK!r to devour when the world is too much with us.  Great literature it is not - and that really is OK!	2003-11-15
901695:US	52496677	R36EC5T4NWAKUL	0966866509	558022410	No Hair Day	Books	5	4	6	N	N	To Life.....and its entire spectrum	NO HAIR DAY is one of the most sensitive messages about the value of living that I've ever encountered.  Portrait photographer Elsa Dorfman has created a portfolio with running commentary about three extraordinary women (Carol, Libby and Debbie) who have much in common: breast cancer, with concomitant experiences with mastectomy and chemotherapy, sparkling senses of humor, and a comraderie that glows from every page of this book.  Elsa Dorfman took on the potentially tough assignment of doing a portrait session with these three models in various states of adornment (or lack thereof) and with her large Polaroid camera was able to capture in a 23\\" X 36\\" format all the courage and rare insights that celebrate the durability of the human spirit.  Each of the three models (that is so much more appropriate a sobriquet that cancer victims!)is given space among the photographs to relate individual responses to the ordeal of the cancer/chemotherapy/alopecia demon.  The relationship among these three delightful women is examined and then matched by the incomparably rich moments on film that Dorfman has managed to capture.  This is not a morbid clinical treatise.  This book is about the importance of incoporating death into our world-view of life.  Death, birth, tragedy, disease, happiness, wigs, love, turbans, scarves, giggling, guffawing, and pizza.  It all becomes a cycle of circles in Dorfman's intelligent hands.  Technically speaking, as an art book this is a keeper: the quality of Dorfman's Polaroids is marvelous the layout of the book is well designed, and the writing (?recording?) is uplifting without any of the fakery that can often accompany books that attempt to laugh down death.  This is a book about Life and all its eccentricites.  What a fine achievement it is.  For everyone who cares about friends.	2003-11-14
907595:US	52496677	R3Q83BRO5UKAU3	1931686238	995501786	The Baby Owner's Manual: Operating Instructions, Trouble-Shooting Tips, and Advice on First-Year Maintenance (Owner's and Instruction Manual)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Refreshingly Unqualified Success of a Book!	THE BABY'S OWNER'S MANUAL by Louis Borgenicht, MD and his son Joe(who is listed as having the degree of DAD!) is as clever, as hilarious, and as expert as any parenting manual since the time of Dr Spock!  Written in the style of a manual that one would find inside the box of a computer or other mechanical product, this little book gives all the information needed in preparing to be new parents, in the first year of the baby's life, and in the care of baby in the new home into which the 'product' is introduced.  This book is so well written that it could be read merely as a comedy by people who have no intention of bringing home a new baby.  But is also a nearly indispensible volume for new parents.  This is one of the best 'prenatal' or shower gifts you can find for the expectant parents ( or grandparents). On every level THE BABY OWNER'S MANUAL: OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS, TROUBLE-SHOOTING TIPS, AND ADVICE ON FIRST YEAR MAINTENANCE is an unqualified success.  Learn and Enjoy!	2003-11-09
910211:US	52496677	R1664W3DMI38WY	0810932970	424290627	Great Cathedrals	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Altars to the Holy Roman Empire...and Art	GREAT CATHEDRALS is an elegant and eloquent, impressive large book that addresses in pictures, drawings and well-crafted research the magnificent cathedrals of France, England, Spain, Italy and Germany that represent the finest in Gothic architecture dating from about 1100 AD.  Bernhard Schutz knows his architecture and takes the reader on an informed tour of these incredible monuments, explaining with very helpful diagrams the architectural wonders and phenomena of each cathedral.  Just when you think you remember the Notre Dame in Paris as being the most exquisite example of European cathedrals, turn the page and study the beauties of the cathedral at Chartres in a way that few other books have captured its majesty.  The photographs of the buildings are beautifuly rendered with copious examples of the details such as the stained glass windows, the decor of the columns, and the variety of doors.  For readers who are looking for a book about the psychosocial development of the Holy Roman Empire and all the permutations and controversies of the life and times of the architects that surround these monuments, then this is not the history book one would expect.  Yet for concise, informed, and inspiring writing about these great cathedrals as art and architectural wonders, it would be difficult to find a more thorough presentation.  This book helps us remember that the roots of fine art are in the cathedrals and examining those roots has never been more captivating!	2003-11-07
910538:US	52496677	R7FVXCNLW3YKS	0883633310	572217586	Michelangelo : The Complete Sculpture, Painting, Architecture	Books	5	62	63	N	N	A Visual Excursion through a Genius' Life and Works	MICHELANGELO: THE COMPLETE SCULPTURE, PAINTING, ARCHITECTURE is one of those books that would be a generous addition to any art/art history lover's library.  This very large scaled volume is meant to be about the visual and not the stuffy, thesis-driven, dry tome words of biography.  William Wallace has excellent credentials as a writer and his style of writing is warm, thoughtful, insightful, and informative.  He has elected to begin his book with an abbreviated biography, knowing that most people know the general facts about Michelangelo's life, and then presents the artists' output in sections of scultpure, painting, and architecture.  It is said that Michelangelo never considered himself a painter, despite his glory in the frescoes of the Sistine Chapel.  It is his sculpture for which he wished to be known and surely there are few extant examples of heroic sculpture that are in his rarefied league.  The reproductions of the frescoes are color correct and the sculptures are captured with excellent photographic drama.  For those who wish to know more about the writings and sonnets of Michelangelo as well as the contorversies that colored his life, then look elsewhere among the many books available.  But for sheer joy of turning page after beautiful page that document Michelangelo's genius, then look no further. A perfect gift for yourself and for those who care about art.	2003-11-07
921368:US	52496677	R1XG95TQZ8R1E7	0060530383	805102411	The Kill Clause: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Form and Function: A Literary Example	Not being a reader of crime novels (unless the Hannibal Lecter series included in that genre)I came to this book with some resistance.  Could a story about killing and violence hold up as a novel for me?  Well, in the case of the talented Gregg Hurwitz's THE KILL CLAUSE the answer is decidedly YES.  This is an excellent example of what in the art world is an ongoing argument of Form following Function.  Does the style justify or validate the subject?  It is here that Hurwitz seems to be a master of sorts.  And for opening that door of appreciation of a different writing form I am very grateful.<br />The story, well reviewed on these pages, is one of the grisly murder and dismemberment of the young daughter of two law enforcement people (mother Dray is a deputy and father Jim is a US Marshall with an extensive background in special agent type activities).  The very clearly drawn focus of the story is how these two cope with their loss and more importantly, how they handle their roles as law enforcers when the temptation is to gut level respond to exterminating the killer.  Just how this all happens and how the couple work through the moral dilemmas they face is the crux of this well executed tale.<br />Hurwitz' writing style is terse, succinct, and maintains forward momentum right to the end (for a 'first crime novel experience' and for a 388 page book I was surprised to read it in one day, so involved does Hurwitz keep his readers).  He also has the unusual respect for the reader as to use the frequent all-cap abbreviations of law terms, which could leave the reader lost, and usually within the next sentence gently, and in context, state what these foreign terms mean.<br />In all, an excellent tale, though grisly, very well told.  A series of crimes and actions are related in a spare, gunshot tattoo writing style that still provides full-blown character and scene descriptions while maintaining the momentum of the story.	2003-10-29
922666:US	52496677	R38JZIRTK5KNIF	1410735990	73264453	Sam's Fight for Justice: School's Shocking Secret Naked Push-Ups for Punishement	Books	4	1	2	N	N	From the Heart, without fear	Betty Ann Herron has written a letter to the public, a letter which details the devastating effects of a highschool sports coach's concept of discipline on her 13 year old son 'Sam'.  Having moved to a small town (identify withheld) to seek care for her husband's physical deterioration, recover from some family deaths,  and find a home that was affordable, Mr and Mrs Herron enroll their three children in the public school. In a gym class her son Sam is found at odds with his gym coach over an innocent and playful gesture in the shower room and for this 'breech of rules', the coach irately makes Sam perform pushups, naked, over the drain in the middle of the shower - apparently resulting in the boys who were present mocking Sam with cruel epithets.  This quick incident becomes a powerful shock to the parents, to Sam and his siblings, and the Herron family finds themselves the brunt of ridicule in a small town setting.  The school will not follow through with discipline for the coach as he is important to the varsity teams, and the townspeople and highschoolers come to the defense of their beloved coach and lash out against Sam for reporting him.  Even with legal advice the family eventually has to move out of town because of bigotry.  This book is Mrs Herron's attempt to gather public support for this unfortunate incident and to help her in her tireless efforts to find justice.<br />This small book is printed by 1st Books and it is not clear to me whether the editors there decided to print the authors' words exactly as she wrote them for the emotional impact or whether the book just simply slipped passed by the Editor.  Technically the book lacks puctuation, correct grammer, spelling checks, and content advice.  But once these technical flaws are noted, the reader is more than committed to the message of the book, and in my view the crudeness of presentation enhances the emotional aspect.  AND it is entirely possible that this is a style Betty Ann Herron chose to convey one of the more pungent mother's pleas in literature.  Read this book and share this book and perhaps we can all help prevent such abuse at the hands of the coaches in our school system who find such 'discipline' to be the test of \\"Being a Man.\\"vey one of the more pungent mother's pleas in literature.  Read this book and share this book and perhaps we can all help prevent such abuse at the hands of the coaches in our school system who find such 'discipline' to be the test of \\"Being a Man.\\"	2003-10-28
923497:US	52496677	R3K399M5108CHY	0385500696	545684646	The Fortress of Solitude: A Novel	Books	5	9	15	N	Y	A Reviewer's Conundrum	A FORTRESS OF SOLITUDE has been praised in nearly every literary magazine and media form with so much adulation that it seems like a daunting read.  And it is.  Jonathan Lethem does not believe in letting his reader speed-read the thoughts he has so obviously and painstakingly scribed.  For starters this book is 511 pages long - and those pages are on thin paper with small font and mini-margins:  this is a major undertaking. But Lethem grabs us so tightly with his eloquent prose and picturesque/picaresque atmosphere that once past the first few pages we are his captives.<br />The story is one of childhood alienation, young lads groping for identity in Brooklyn in the period from 1970 through the 1990s.  Dean Street is an African American and Puerto Rican ghetto into which is dropped the nearly solitary white kid Dylan Ebdus.  Parented by a strange couple (who in so many ways represent the history of American art in that period), Dylan gradually finds his soul mate Mingus Rude, an African American offspring of drug abusing musicians.  The hidden loveliness of Lethem's epic includes the closeness of these two, working out their confrontation with the world by using comic book superhero magic via a ring from Aeroman (in reality a street person they think can fly) which places this adventure metaphorically with other epics like The Ring of the Niebelungen and the Tolkien Ring stories. These boys are lovers for all intents and purposes (even Mingus' father walks in on them during a sexual encounter and treats it with respect). But here all is not fastasy but is instead  more grit.  The three decades see Dylan pursue college in Vermont and then California while Mingus falls into the trap of crime, killing his own grandfather, and spends the better part this time in jail.  It is the final working out of the destinies of these two boys that makes this story not only work but makes it significant in American literature.  Many analogies to Huck Finn/Tom Sawyer etc pairings are being touted by readers and those can only be compliments.  Lethem lets us learn about street life in Brooklyn - the good and the bad - and also about the history of drugs in America and a solid history of the various movements in popular music and in art.<br />And it is lies the reviewer's conundrum: Lethem can become tedious and self-indulgent, seeming to be bent on destroying the architecture of his own molding.  It would have been possible, no - preferable - to confine this story to around 300 pages.  At times Lethem perserverates on a topic that is not additive to his story but seems more like establishing his credentials as a \\"with it writer\\" and an expert on jive and hiphop dialogue, and pop music scholar.  But stay with him (even though the temptation to just speed through copious pages of redundant detail is strong) and in the end, in the last few chapters  of the book he pulls every thread together in a cat's purse of intrigue and love that makes the arduous journey to that point well work the effort. An example: \\"For so long I'd thought that Abraham's [his painter father] legacy was mine: to retreat upstairs, unable or unwilling to sing or fly, only to compile and collect, to sculpt statues of my lost friends, life's real actors , in my Fortress of Solitude.\\"  But read the rest for yourself: no one can do this work - or this joy - for you.e being touted by readers and those can only be compliments.  Lethem lets us learn about street life in Brooklyn - the good and the bad - and also about the history of drugs in America and a solid history of the various movements in popular music and in art.<br />And it is lies the reviewer's conundrum: Lethem can become tedious and self-indulgent, seeming to be bent on destroying the architecture of his own molding.  It would have been possible, no - preferable - to confine this story to around 300 pages.  At times Lethem perserverates on a topic that is not additive to his story but seems more like establishing his credentials as a \\"with it writer\\" and an expert on jive and hiphop dialogue, and pop music scholar.  But stay with him (even though the temptation to just speed through copious pages of redundant detail is strong) and in the end, in the last few chapters  of the book he pulls every thread together in a cat's purse of intrigue and love that makes the arduous journey to that point well work the effort. An example: \\"For so long I'd thought that Abraham's [his painter father] legacy was mine: to retreat upstairs, unable or unwilling to sing or fly, only to compile and collect, to sculpt statues of my lost friends, life's real actors , in my Fortress of Solitude.\\"  But read the rest for yourself: no one can do this work - or this joy - for you.	2003-10-28
941233:US	52496677	RY923WXM0LVB8	0060198400	917355240	The Burning Tigris: The Armenian Genocide and America's Response	Books	5	42	53	N	N	Raising a Red Flag on a Hidden and Submerged Atrocity	We live in fragile times: while we look to other countries and shudder at the famine, mass deaths, suicide bombings, the ever bubbling curse of AIDS, we also sit and watch highschool killing sprees, 911 reactions, serial rapists and killers on the television nightly news and on the front pages of the following morning's papers.  We cannot avoid being aware of atrocities that surround our tiny planet.  One particular atrocity of the past is retold in frequent books, movies, musical elegies, paintings, poems, and theater - that incredible crime against humanity being the Holocaust of Hitler's Nazi Germany.<br /><br />But how many of us are aware of the magnitude of the Turkish Genocide of the Armenians that took place in 1915?  Or of the massacre of Armenians in the 1890's that became an American focus for humanitarian concerns, advancing Clara Barton and the Red Cross into action with all the backing of the press and religious support that was readily mustered?  The time has come to set the record straight on this submerged tragedy in hopes that bringing attention to this omission from American history books will alert the people of the world (and especially America) just how powerful our government's preoccupation with OIL and the countries that supply truly is.<br />Peter Balakian has written the definitive book THE BURNING TIGRIS: THE ARMENIAN GENOCIDE AND AMERICA'S RESPONSE - A History of International Human Rights and Forgotten Heroes and I would urge everyone to read this enormously well researched, documented, and readable volume.  Balakian starts his history with the early 1890's and traces the ever-increasing degradation of Armenians in Turkey by the Ottoman Empire.  The strangest aspect of this ongoing murder of innocents is that for many years it was a cause celebre in the USA.  The Women's Rights Movement led by such luminaries as Grace Kimball, Clara Barton, Julia Ward Howe, and Alice Stone Blackwell gave of their time, money and personal commitment to send relief to the Armenians and to keep the tragedy before the public eye.  Great thinkers and writers of the day like William M. Ramsey wrote &#34; Turkish massacre...does not mean that thousands are killed in a few days by the sword, the torture, or the fire. It does not mean merely that everything [the Armenians] possess is stolen, their houses and shops looted and often burned, every article worth a halfpenny taken, the corpses stripped.  It does not mean merely that the survivors are left penniless - without food, sometimes literally stark naked...Sometimes, when the Turks have been specially merciful, they have offered their victims an escape from death by accepting Mohammedanism.&#34; Yet this massacre was only a prelude to the Genocide that occurred in 1915.<br />The real horror of this history is the absolute drive of the Turks toward annihilation of the Armenians in 1914 - 1915.  This genocide was a mirror image of the Nazi Final Solution for Jews in WW II complete with  ghettos, mass murders, camps, slaughter of all men below age 50, then mass slaughter of the women and children.  A particularly heinous note is that the Turks identified, isolated and then exterminated most of the great philophers, teachers,artists, writers, and thinkers - leaving few to transmit the horror of the genocide to the future generations.<br />But despite the initial care and concern of the USA in sending aid to the Armenians and accepting thousands into the country here, the actual events of treaty signing, accords, agreements, and political stands at the close of WW I and WW II focused on the need to pacify Turkey in order to keep the flow of OIL Almighty flowing.  The embarrassment of this lack of courage to punish violations of  Human Rights is now felt acutely as  we are left to view our country's errors in Vietnam, the Middle East, our own 'ethnic cleansing' of the American Indians and our history of supporting slavery of the African Americans. Where in 1915 the New York Times wrote daily about the Armenian atrocities, equating the words 'Armenia' with 'atrocities', 'massacre', deportaion', 'outrage', 'race extermination',  when it came time in 1918 for President Wilson to revitalize the need to bring justice to the Armenian human rights violations by declaring war on the Ottoman Empire, he elected instead to ignore history and make the table of negotiation safe for Turkey.  Balakian is careful to footnote and give direct evidence for every statement he makes, harsh though they may be to read.  In his Epilogue he quotes Judith Herman: &#34;Criminal behavior is always defined by the perpetrator's compulsion to 'promote forgetting' &#34;. For this reader the might and power of this book is summarized by this quotation.  Balakian is careful to concede that men like Presidents Carter and Clinton have made public statements in support of keeping the Armenian Genocide by the Turks in the public eye.  It has not been enough. With this book perhaps we as a nation will read and hear about one of the greatest tragedies of history - and one of the most ignored.  Highly Recommended for students, for historians, and for everyone who believes in Human Rights.e Armenian atrocities, equating the words 'Armenia' with 'atrocities', 'massacre', deportaion', 'outrage', 'race extermination',  when it came time in 1918 for President Wilson to revitalize the need to bring justice to the Armenian human rights violations by declaring war on the Ottoman Empire, he elected instead to ignore history and make the table of negotiation safe for Turkey.  Balakian is careful to footnote and give direct evidence for every statement he makes, harsh though they may be to read.  In his Epilogue he quotes Judith Herman: &#34;Criminal behavior is always defined by the perpetrator's compulsion to 'promote forgetting' &#34;. For this reader the might and power of this book is summarized by this quotation.  Balakian is careful to concede that men like Presidents Carter and Clinton have made public statements in support of keeping the Armenian Genocide by the Turks in the public eye.  It has not been enough. With this book perhaps we as a nation will read and hear about one of the greatest tragedies of history - and one of the most ignored.  Highly Recommended for students, for historians, and for everyone who believes in Human Rights.	2003-10-14
945981:US	52496677	R2M0IL6K7MRRJY	0060542217	214694261	American Woman: A Novel	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Time Warp: An Inside View of the History of Radicalism	Susan Choi's first novel THE FOREIGN STUDENT signaled the arrival of a sensitive new voice unafraid to tackle tender issues of national guilt and immigrant isolation in the Land of Dreams.  In her new novel AMERICAN WOMAN Choi further establishes her credentials as an important American writer who manages to research historical data so well that turning that media blitz-hype into a novel results in a compelling probe of the minds of youth at odds with the society that raised them.<br />Succinctly based on the 1974 SLA kidnapping of Patricia Hearst and its aftermath, Choi has played out this tragic but intensely credible  bit of American history in the form of a series of character studies of those involved.  The main character Jenny is a Japanese American girl involved with the radical groups who struck out against the Vietnam War, the hypocrisy of a 'democratic' America, and the abuse of the police in neglecting the poor people of this country.  Choi's Jenny makes us re-examine the motivation that perpetrated the radicals of that period and if this book has no other result than to cause us all to re-think the important role of students who questioned the state of the Union, then that raised flag would be sufficient.  But this finely wrought novel goes beyond that exploratory surgery and finds analogies to the reactions to the interment of the Japanese during WW II (Jenny's father was one of those interred and greatly influenced her perception of right and wrong in America), to the effect of isolation  (read imprisonment/segregation) on young minds at odds with the status quo, to the power of bonding between individuals whose common needs may in fact be disparate.<br />AMERICAN WOMAN is a slow read: Choi knows how to create that pregnant ennui that encapsulates feral individuals awaiting the backlash of their actions.  But during those slow pages Choi manages to spread her canvas on the page and paint immaculate images of nature at rest and at fury.  In the end she gives us a group of people not all of whom we can admire (or even care for), but at the same time she molds thoughtful minds that accept abuse because of their beliefs, who continue to foster dreams against all plausible odds.  And just when you may tire of the shenanigans of Choi's 'cast', you are reminded that this story on a different level DID happen.  Stay with this book to the end and you will embrace or perhaps even question your own idealistic youth that dwells back there someplace in the 1970s.gives us a group of people not all of whom we can admire (or even care for), but at the same time she molds thoughtful minds that accept abuse because of their beliefs, who continue to foster dreams against all plausible odds.  And just when you may tire of the shenanigans of Choi's 'cast', you are reminded that this story on a different level DID happen.  Stay with this book to the end and you will embrace or perhaps even question your own idealistic youth that dwells back there someplace in the 1970s.	2003-10-10
947722:US	52496677	R2XARRY3COQMFB	0789300796	776420160	Naked Men : Pioneering Male Nudes 1935-1955	Books	5	3	5	N	N	This book just becomes more important with time	When David Leddick first published NAKED MEN: PIONEERING MALE NUDES 1935 - 1955 in the year 1997, many readers voiced the opinion that other photographers' books admiring the beauty of the masculine physique were far superior, more provocative, more erotic, and so forth.  What is becoming more evident now six years later is just how sensitive Leddick's writing is and how insightful this study remains.  His premise  - to address artists who either photographed, painted or drew the male nude in a period of time when the male nude as subject was verboten - reveals a brave period of history in gender studies.  Leddick shares many images of young men and pairs those images with current (at the time of his writing) views of those pictured models.  This could be a gimick if it stopped there, but Leddick has the sensitivity to focus on truly significant artists, allowing us insights not avialable elsewhere in the literature.  A long portion is devoted, naturally, to George Platt Lynes who more than most photographers devoted his camera to captruing the 'compleat' persona of artists such as Jared French, Christopher Isherwood, Yul Brynner and well established studio models.  What he shows us are the photographs taken  from 1935 - 1955 and then shares photographs of those models today.  He also visits Lincoln Kirsten, Paul Cadmus, Lew Christensen, and Tennessee Williams and has many interesting anecdotes which he shares in well written prose.  This is not a book of homoerotica (though the models both young and old are beautifully captured).  This is a vital volume of history that makes as interesting a treat for the mind as it does for the eye.  Especially recommended for the collector who has Leddick's later books - this preludes the spectrum of what is to come.	2003-10-08
949806:US	52496677	R3PDDBG8PMGZYU	0312209355	59052820	War Against the Animals: A Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	A Summer in the Zoo	Paul Russell, as we are coming to realize, is an author who is well beyond genre novels.  True, he demonstrates a sincere and  deep understanding of the gender epiphany that accompanies the approach to puberty -  the spectrum of fear, self-loathing, fantasy, desire, confusion and transcendence that weave in and out of every person who comes to grips with sexual preference. In short, he writes with great dignity and grace about 'coming out' whether that be in the parcels of memory of older men or in the active and onstage reality of young lads.  As in his highly successful novel THE COMING STORM, Russell explores community/family/bonding in a story of people who fear home either as a loss or as an escape.  \\"Home\\" as goal is intrinsically part of this story and it is because of that aspect that, while the story is one of gay men in a Redneck dislocation, that makes it universal. And it all is distilled into the events a one summer.<br />Cameron Barnes 'escapes' the choke of Manhattan in moving to Stone Hollow in upstate New York, leaving behind the memories of a love lost to AIDS, and starting life over with a new love that gradually dissolves into transcience.  Yet in the meantime (recovering from  brushes with death from his own AIDS) he has establishes himself as a fine landscape architect, encourages friends from New York to move to his Arcadia, and begins an encounter with a pair of homespun brothers whom he hires for a summer's work only to discover that the Redneck attitude of the town extends to their mentality.  Cameron's past introduction to love is revealed through gently drawn flashbacks and thoughts and it is the slow discovery of similarities that results in his aligning with one of the brothers in a journey towards the younger's (Jesse's) self discovery.  The words Russsell employs are never squandered: The title of the book, WAR WITH THE ANIMALS, refers not only to Cameron's struggle in the smalltown mentality of homophobia, but also with the demons of his virus, his past experiences and his present challenges.  Russell sublety divides the book into sections: \\"Et in Arcadia Ego\\" (and into paradise I go), \\"The Chaos Garden\\" ( a descriptor of his work project and his landscape), \\"Gethsemane\\" (or agony in the garden before Christ's betrayal), and \\"Under the Shadow\\". These subtitles suggest the delicacy of Russell's prose and style.<br />Technically, Russell draws characters that are not only three dimensional, but who, like all humans, have polarities of good and evil that round out their personalites. No one is thoroughly hateful despite some of their atrocious behaviors, and no one is without character flaws no matter how sincere they attempt to pretend.  WAR AGAINST THE ANIMALS (note: this is not entitled war \\"with\\" the animals) is a highly successful book, one that has much to say about how we choose to lead our lives and the choices we make being mindful of the consequences. Cameron's summer results in a leaping change in the lives of nearly everyone we have met in this story.  It is a brave book, a well-conceived story, and an entertaining read.  Paul Russell has kept his promise as to his talent potential.  I wait for the next novel!his virus, his past experiences and his present challenges.  Russell sublety divides the book into sections: \\"Et in Arcadia Ego\\" (and into paradise I go), \\"The Chaos Garden\\" ( a descriptor of his work project and his landscape), \\"Gethsemane\\" (or agony in the garden before Christ's betrayal), and \\"Under the Shadow\\". These subtitles suggest the delicacy of Russell's prose and style.  <br />Technically, Russell draws characters that are not only three dimensional, but who, like all humans, have polarities of good and evil that round out their personalites. No one is thoroughly hateful despite some of their atrocious behaviors, and no one is without character flaws no matter how sincere they attempt to pretend.  WAR AGAINST THE ANIMALS (note: this is not entitled war \\"with\\" the animals) is a highly successful book, one that has much to say about how we choose to lead our lives and the choices we make being mindful of the consequences. Cameron's summer results in a leaping change in the lives of nearly everyone we have met in this story.  It is a brave book, a well-conceived story, and an entertaining read.  Paul Russell has kept his promise as to his talent potential.  I wait for the next novel!	2003-10-07
955948:US	52496677	RRIMD6P7BU5NV	0786710462	667151428	Disturbance of the Inner Ear: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Musings on Messiaen's "A Quartet for the end of Time"	Joyce Hackett is a sculptural writer.  She obviously knows her music - both technically and the repertoire - and she uses this information to create a novel that continues to surprise until the final page.  This is a story about what we inherit from our parents, be that talent, guilt, revenge, vendetta, remorse, hunger for joy, or just the need to be, to survive.  The narrator of this finely honed novel is Isabel whose father survived the Nazi camp of Theresienstadt where he had wisely survived through his gifts as a pianist as a part of the orchestra that played as Jews and other unwanted people arrived at what they believed to be a Spa, discovering once inside that it was an extermination camp.  Yuri (Isabel's father) escaped death, but not before his musically gifted fingers were crushed by a guard on the day of freedom. Yuri concentrates all of his rage and frustration having escaped to Milwauakee, WI to raise his daughter,Isabel, a prodigy of the cello.  He drives his daughter to extremes of performance, always reminding her of the price paid for her gift.  After her successful Carnegie Hall debut her parents are killed in an accident and Isabel is unable to continue playing the cello.  She is alone except for her elderly mentor who takes her as his protege and lover to Milan, Italy.  There he dies and Isabel sets out to survive on her own. She soon finds employment as a tutor in a large house owned by an eccentric millionaire who demands his son be taught the cello on a rare Amati cello.  Isabel's sole contact with the outside world is a plastic surgeon (Guilio) who has as strange a mental hisory as does Isabel.  Through a long series of incidents, Isabel finally travels to Theresienstadt to end her tie with her father's past, intending to burn her invaluable cello in the ovens that threatened her father. \\"Because what Yuri lost was not two parents, or two fingers, not a musical community or a continent. What Yuri lost was a way of trusting the world, the ability to imagine that the world's immense silence contained any sort of listening.  What Yuri lost was the possibility of God.\\"  \\"Husbanding my talent was his way of making order out of chaos.\\"<br />DISTURBANCES OF THE INNER EAR sensitively evokes the traits we inherit form our parents and how we learn to cope with what our history and our contemporary life have dealt us.  Isabel finds passion - physical, erotic meaning to exisiting - and embraces that passion in carving her euology for all that was in her past. At the site  of Theresienstadt she once again performs for the survivors and the children of survivors the Messiaen  \\"Quartet for the End of Time\\", the piece that had been her last performance at Carnegie Hall and Messiaen's utterance he wrote for the inmates of the camps.  And she rises like a phoenix from that experience.<br />Joyce Hackett writes beautifully. Reading her book takes concentration as she has written without quotation marks, she melds the past and the present in one sentence and paragraph, and at times pushes her musical knowledge to the point of overindulgence of metaphor.  Yet she has written one of the more intense and sensitive memoirs about the Holocaust.  A reader recommended this book to me after reading my review of WG Sebald's \\"Austerlitz\\" and now I know why.  A very fine book.ity to imagine that the world's immense silence contained any sort of listening.  What Yuri lost was the possibility of God.\\"   \\"Husbanding my talent was his way of making order out of chaos.\\"<br />DISTURBANCES OF THE INNER EAR sensitively evokes the traits we inherit form our parents and how we learn to cope with what our history and our contemporary life have dealt us.  Isabel finds passion - physical, erotic meaning to exisiting - and embraces that passion in carving her euology for all that was in her past. At the site  of Theresienstadt she once again performs for the survivors and the children of survivors the Messiaen  \\"Quartet for the End of Time\\", the piece that had been her last performance at Carnegie Hall and Messiaen's utterance he wrote for the inmates of the camps.  And she rises like a phoenix from that experience.<br />Joyce Hackett writes beautifully. Reading her book takes concentration as she has written without quotation marks, she melds the past and the present in one sentence and paragraph, and at times pushes her musical knowledge to the point of overindulgence of metaphor.  Yet she has written one of the more intense and sensitive memoirs about the Holocaust.  A reader recommended this book to me after reading my review of WG Sebald's \\"Austerlitz\\" and now I know why.  A very fine book.	2003-10-01
963168:US	52496677	R178FGTZYXBU2G	0374281742	871556010	Plausible Portraits of James Lord: With Commentary by the Model	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	The Artist and Model Conundrum explored by a Master	James Lord has been an important essayist, writer, critic and observor of fine art since WW II.  An American by birth he has expatriated to France where he has been a frequent and eloquent commentator on painting and drawing gathered largely from first hand experience not only with the art works but with the artists themselves.  Well known for his definitive book on Alberto Giacometti and his books on Picasso, Lord is first and foremost a man of the pen and his writing reflects the grandeur of the craft as practiced a hundred years ago.  A first perusing of Lord's pages (in the Forward) may grant the importance of a dictionary/encyclopedia/thesaurus in order to proceed, but if the reader summons the patience of approaching the works of, say,  Henry James, Marcel Proust, or Virginia Woolf, then the journey will prove more than worthy.<br />Since his first encounter with Picasso in 1944, Lord has made it a practice to be available for sitting for portraits with artists whose work he admires.  This series of essays about these experiences are enlightening, conversational, and profoundly respectful of the concept of 'drawing from life'.  Lord's book contains examples of portraits of himself as rendered by such luminaries as Picasso, Jean Cocteau, Balthus, Giacometti, Cartier-Bresson (yes, he also was a draughtsman!), Lucian Freud, Theophilus Brown, Alessandro Papetti, and Dora Maar (one of Picasso's mistresses), but he also presents works by lesser known (yet very fine) artists such as Anthony Palliser,Thomas Cordell, and Jean-Baptiste Secheret, etc.  He even includes a drawing done by a Russian sidewalk artist while Lord was in St. Petersberg - nameless, yet very fine.  Each artist is observed with all idiosyncrasies and celebrity (or lack thereof) in tact making each encounter a brief biography of some very fascinating people.<br />In all of his discussions about the some thirty-seven portraits Lord finds the rare space of communication between the artist's observing eye and the model's pose and is able to describe that intangible experience better than any writer living today.  It is of great interest that Lord includes portraits from 1944 to 2001, a span of years that defies the changes in art's history and simutaneously describes with uncanny tenderness the change of the face of a man who has aged to his late seventies.  Seeing his last portrait included in this book he notes &quot;the accurate representation of a man inhabiting the shabby suburbs of old age could hardly be condemned as evidence of narcissism.&quot;  It is this self-effacing wisdom that makes Lord's writing so  ultimately ingenuous.  Perhaps the most tender of these 'essays with observations' is the one he writes about the portrait done by Gilles Roy, his companion of many years.  It is in this brief essay that he explores the fact that &quot;Sentiment can, and very often does, determine how a model appears to a portraitist, how the model's own sentiment effects the knowledgeable commitment of his appearance, and how the reciprocity of sentiments determines the appearance of a portrait.&quot;  The mystery of the Artist/Model experience has rarely been stated so eloquently.  This is a fine book merely to read for those interested in art history, or for those fascinated by representational art, or for those who enjoy exploring the magic of rendering a likeness.  A sophisticated, very enjoyable book.eye and the model's pose and is able to describe that intangible experience better than any writer living today.  It is of great interest that Lord includes portraits from 1944 to 2001, a span of years that defies the changes in art's history and simutaneously describes with uncanny tenderness the change of the face of a man who has aged to his late seventies.  Seeing his last portrait included in this book he notes &quot;the accurate representation of a man inhabiting the shabby suburbs of old age could hardly be condemned as evidence of narcissism.&quot;  It is this self-effacing wisdom that makes Lord's writing so  ultimately ingenuous.  Perhaps the most tender of these 'essays with observations' is the one he writes about the portrait done by Gilles Roy, his companion of many years.  It is in this brief essay that he explores the fact that &quot;Sentiment can, and very often does, determine how a model appears to a portraitist, how the model's own sentiment effects the knowledgeable commitment of his appearance, and how the reciprocity of sentiments determines the appearance of a portrait.&quot;  The mystery of the Artist/Model experience has rarely been stated so eloquently.  This is a fine book merely to read for those interested in art history, or for those fascinated by representational art, or for those who enjoy exploring the magic of rendering a likeness.  A sophisticated, very enjoyable book.	2003-09-25
965576:US	52496677	R1LVXXEGYDCPVZ	0060557540	5482241	The Known World	Books	5	12	15	N	N	An epic view of The Known World of black slavemasters	Edward P. Jones has succeeded - no, triumphed - in writing an epic scale novel about an aspect of American history little known to most of us.  Scholars of African American history are well informed that during the 1800s, when slavery was a way of life for both whites and blacks, there were many permutations of who is master and who is slave.  The fact that former slaves, granted their freedom by whatever means, purchased their own cadre of slaves may sound shocking to some readers and it seems that it is that audience of readers to whom Jones wishes to address this story.  Based on facts and related in a way that, however lyrically written is the story line, makes this novel seem like historical biography, Jones has created a novel that is compelling, beautifully composed, and very smart.  His characters are so vivid that they grow to inhabit our minds, engaging our empathy and disgust as well as any characters in fiction.<br />The story of Henry and Caldonia Townsend, Fern Elston, the Robbins, the Skiffingtons, mad Alice, Zeddie, Loretta, Elias, Louis, Dora et cetera has been well outlined in the other reviews of this major book.  But what takes this novel a step further than just being a fascinating tale is Jones' use of language.  He waxes musically in describing the boundaries and inner spaces of his Known World of the plantation (closed to the slaves by the boundaries of the land and the legacy of ownership). He manages to be so intimate with the lives of his characters that he even chances to suggest the homoerotic underpinnings between Louis and Elias without calling attention to the fact that he is doing anything more than creating complete people. His use of the vernacular goes beyond merely the very tersely studied dialogue and extends into the mindset of the character who is remembering or postulating. Some novelists would elect to find that vernacular voice and then force the entire novel into its cadence, a style choice that can make a story cumbersome.  Not Jones.  When the story is reportage or in the minds of the non-slaves, Jones writes in melodic and eloquent prose, not unlike an orchestra in collaboration with soloists.  This is a slow read and that is a good thing: speed reading THE KNOWN WORLD would deprive the reader of the warmly langorous pace of the times in which these wholly credible people &quot;lived.&quot;  A very fine book!me.  Not Jones.  When the story is reportage or in the minds of the non-slaves, Jones writes in melodic and eloquent prose, not unlike an orchestra in collaboration with soloists.  This is a slow read and that is a good thing: speed reading THE KNOWN WORLD would deprive the reader of the warmly langorous pace of the times in which these wholly credible people &quot;lived.&quot;  A very fine book!	2003-09-23
976712:US	52496677	R3L6P8DRQYANSL	086241850X	459924455	Nail and Other Stories ("Rebel Inc")	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Macabre tales and dirty little secrets	Laura Hird is a startlingly good storyteller.  Whether all of her literary output will continue along the lines of these macabre and hauntingly strange stories remains to be seen.  In this particular genre she is among the best.  Her stories embrace the dark spaces of our night minds, our visualization of the ill-defined fears that populate the nightmares of reality and illusion, and she has an extraordinary ability to make these weird tales credible.  There seems to be a running thread of exploring the possibilities of man's cruelty to man.  She molds brief visages of young girls abusing a mentally challenged boy (not unlike the famous 'Lord of the Flies' story), brutality to animals, numbing revenge, pedophila, molestation, and near-extraterrestrial body invasions by growths on the hands and face.  These stories may not be for the faint of heart, but Hird is a mastercraftsman at making these tales all seem like reportage.  The one flaw in her writing is her tenuous ability to end a story:  they often are left dangling like a half dead spider caught on our mind's brow.  Some may find difficulty in reading her Scottish brogue manner of conversation, but try reading it aloud and you will discover how additive it is in thinking through the story.<br />This is a fine short story collection.  One wonders what a novel by Laura Hird would feel like...........	2003-09-14
980605:US	52496677	R1HC84KMCV7CF5	0312422504	396161333	The Eagle's Shadow: Why America Fascinates and Infuriates the World	Books	5	18	24	N	N	Required Reading!	Mark Hertsgaard is a journalist, an astute observor and communicator, and a very fine writer.  Hertsgaard is also an American and his driver for gathering the information for this book appears to be a need to produce a 'wakeup call' for Americans. Well documented with conversations with people around the world, this book sets out to show how the people in the countries of the world relate to (and even mimic) Americans as people while finding our government, our consumerism, and our foreign policy (read empiricism) distasteful. Rather than driving this idea to a dulling end, Herstgaard manages to show how Americans can learn from the perceptions of people outside the USA, can examine the flaws present in abundance in our governmental control of the media, our \\"dumbing down\\" of our information about the rest of the world condition (social and environmental) by the corporate emesis of rampant consumerism and \\"fluff news\\" that flood not only our films but also our television, magazines and, sadly, our newspapers. He submits strong warnings of the sequelae of ignoring fundamental issues of human rights in our allowing the corporate homogenation of the world, depriving the growing lower class of jobs and much needed medical and monetary support. He writes about the embarassment of the 2000 presidential elections, the rush to war post 911, the frighteningly quick passage of the Patriot Act which dangerously impinges on human rights, and the growing negligence of the Global Warming Effect and other issues of Environmental significance.<br />But while Hertsgaard is complete in his serious warnings about the current state of the American Mind, he does not look at the future with a hopeless eye. \\"The first challege for Americans is to do a better job of informing ourselves about what is going on around the world and our nation's role in it. This won't be easy, because the most readily available information comes from the media......If we are passive in the face of America's official actions overseas, we in effect endorse them.\\" He concludes his excellent book with a question: \\"Why can't America be wise as well as powerful, generous as well as rich, magnanimous as well as great? For all its flaws, this country remains a place where amazing things can happen.\\"<br />This book comes at a critical time for the United States. Yes, Hertsgaard has a soapbox presentation, but reading a man's commitment to the betterment of America should be required reading for our populace who would rather sit numbly in front of mindless TV 'reality' and game shows than carefully observe what is happening in the global situation. Americans are not presented as Bad Guys, just uninformed lazy minds who need to change priorities before it is too late.ficial actions overseas, we in effect endorse them.\\" He concludes his excellent book with a question: \\"Why can't America be wise as well as powerful, generous as well as rich, magnanimous as well as great? For all its flaws, this country remains a place where amazing things can happen.\\"<br />This book comes at a critical time for the United States. Yes, Hertsgaard has a soapbox presentation, but reading a man's commitment to the betterment of America should be required reading for our populace who would rather sit numbly in front of mindless TV 'reality' and game shows than carefully observe what is happening in the global situation. Americans are not presented as Bad Guys, just uninformed lazy minds who need to change priorities before it is too late.	2003-09-10
981589:US	52496677	R3EJUQ7XIAQYBU	0811808424	632913221	Under the Tuscan Sun: At Home in Italy	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Solleone	The Italian suffix '-one' expands the noun.  Solleone = big sun.  And that is what this wonderful little book is about - the sun that floods the pages of this book about a renovation of a house in Tuscany, about growing in touch with the self, with what is important in the process of living, with what makes being apart of this universe a beautiful and  enigmatic.  Frances Mayes writes well and has captured the imagination of the dreamers of this country with her books about the simplicity of discovering the natural pace of life in the small towns of Italy.  She makes this 'journal' touching, informative, entertainingly funny, hostess-like in the sharing of the recipes for the inimitable foods of her Tuscan kitchen, and encourages us to observe, to while away our cluttered lives as the Italians do with a mid-day siesta, learn the land and the connection to history and past cultures. She is in her finest mode in her chapters 'Relics of Summer' and 'Solleone' where her gifts as a poet take center stage and she simply shares her re-connected life with us.  This is a bountiful book, one to be savoured in any season.  One hopes the soon to be released movie version of Frances Mayes' tender meanderings retains the glow of the original.........	2003-09-10
985436:US	52496677	R3FXIBDA38HV3R	0767900596	949485021	Earth Odyssey: Around the World in Search of Our Environmental Future	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Long Night's Journey Into Day	Having just read Mark Hertsgaard's THE EAGLE'S SHADOW I moved on to his much longer  and earlier book EARTH ODYSSEY.  Though not intending to read all of this important information in one sitting, I found this book so well written as well as informative that it became a page turner that happily usurped an entire evening.  Try to bed down after reviewing the state of the world's environmental crises!  Yet in the darkness, having finished the book, there was time to reflect on just how important it is to get this information to the entire public.  Not just the active Environmentalists, those who know intuitively the dangers we have bred and are still breeding, but the Everyman out there - all of us who glibly fill our multiple cars with gasoline, clog the freeways, allow the government to ignore Global Warming, remain uninformed about the terrifying diasters associated with the world's nuclear energy programs.<br />Hertsgaard is a fine journalist and as such he traveled the globe from 1991 - 1997 observing, breathing the noxious air in China, the extreme poverty in Africa, the filth in Russia, India, among the Third World countries, and reporting the complacency echoing in groups who live in this deteriorating world and do very little about taking action to guard our planet's future.  Currently the media (such as it is) is alerting us to the presence of an Asteroid a mile wide apparently headed for the earth from outer space. That incident, devastating though it would be, is only a possibility.  The more pertinent devastation ( our clamouring for \\"the better life\\" through industry and its concomitant wasting of our natural resources by knowingly turning them into poisonous by-products ) seems to go unnoticed. Hertsgaard intermixes reportage with  very readable converstaions with people around the world and the result is a book that feels as though it unites all of us, even though that core of unity may be a shared terror.<br />Had we more writers like Mark Hertsgaard who are brave enough and concerned as deeply about 'Whither mankind' perhaps our newspapers and magazines and television/radio news shows would feel compelled to report the important issues before us today rather than search for the latest movie star wedding or sex scandal or whatever sells commercial space. Take this journey with Hertsgaard and wake up to a morning of commitment to the guardianship of our fellowmen.who are brave enough and concerned as deeply about 'Whither mankind' perhaps our newspapers and magazines and television/radio news shows would feel compelled to report the important issues before us today rather than search for the latest movie star wedding or sex scandal or whatever sells commercial space. Take this journey with Hertsgaard and wake up to a morning of commitment to the guardianship of our fellowmen.	2003-09-06
990646:US	52496677	R33I1SSZCLVYAW	1585442372	449532288	The Other Side of Russia: A Slice of Life in Siberia and the Russian Far East (Eugenia & Hugh M. Stewart '26 Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Siberia and the Russian Far East unveiled	IN THE OTHER SIDE OF RUSSIA author/educator Sharon Hudgins manages to give us more insight into an area of the world most of us have known only as a destination for political prisoners from the Tsars on, a faceless frozen tundra where few (if any) of our fellowmen could possibly elect to live! than any other author I have read.  Hudgins and her husband were sent to Siberia and the Russian Far East as educators - transplanted from the University of Maryland to the universities (yes, they exist!) in Vladivostok and Irkutsk in 1993 and 1994.  In the pages of this enormously readable, educational, and fascinating book Hudgins manages to reveal much about the Russian people, the changes brought about by perestroika, the economy of the hinterlands, the pitiable (yet ofen hilariously related!) conditions of high rise living, the Trans-Siberian Railroad, the holidays, the drinking and eating, the educational system, and in short the day to day existence of a people little known to us.  Hudgins writes eloquently about the beauty of the terrain (her chapter on Lake Baikal is sheer poetry), the harshness of the winters contrasted with the beauty of Spring and Fall, and when it comes to her chapter on Feasts and Festivals she reveals her own proclivities of being a meticulously detailed, fascinatingly interesting food writer.<br />There are moments in Hudgins' book when it seems as though we are seeing a negative side of a people who are far behind the rest of the world in the areas of the 'excesses of capitalism' (read electricity, gas, heating, adequate food, sanitation, shopping conveniences), but within pages she turns the negative aspects of life as she and her husband survived it into a praise of the friends and the indomitable spirit of the people around her.<br />Others have written books about this area of the world and each author has a direction for justifying his/her investigation.  Hudgins writes as though for her own pleasure which easily extends to &quot;our&quot; pleasure.  Well written, well documented, funny, tender, and in general an all around excellent book.  Highly recommended!; pleasure.  Well written, well documented, funny, tender, and in general an all around excellent book.  Highly recommended!	2003-09-02
997958:US	52496677	R32I1TT4YGUA27	0375414312	589948387	Short People: Stories	Books	5	2	5	N	Y	Step into a new dimension	SHORT PEOPLE, the first book of stories by the very talented Joshua Furst, is more than just a superb collection of short stories - it is a unique format of exploring the minds of children.  Furst has written plays and his intensely pungent dialogue he writes for his characters reflects that experience.  Furst scoops out ordinary children (whose view of the universe is nascent if unsoiled by truth) and has them interact to suggest the way simple incidents of childhood can brew into adult character deviations.  He tells 'reports' of a dysfuntional family the way those dysfuntions are perceived by children and in doing so he makes 'mature deviant behavior' all the more terrifying.  There are stories that play for laughs (how well he knows the terror of guilt imposed by onanism, by sexual exploration, by body image perceptions!) and stories that are devastatingly sad. Interspersed between these ten tales are one page 'document statements' about such occult trials as incest, physical abuse, autism, hyperactivity, etc and it is only in one of the final stories that the reason for insertion of these strange small 'fragments' emerges.<br />In one of the most successful stories, \\"Failure to Thrive\\", a nurse describes the 'short people' in her care in a special care nursery: \\"They were the children of frail, wealthy women in need of extra recovery time, or poor women there without family, or women whose husbands were out at the bar, whose boyfriends were in jail, whose handful of lovers had no idea - and never would - that they'd just given birth; these were the children of children who would never see them, of women who would never want the, of parents already beginning to feel guilty for being less capable than they knew they should be.\\"<br />Powerful stuff, this.  Yet there is also much to just entertain in Furst's writing.  His ideas are so pregnant that they beg to be extended into full novels.  Despite the 'short story' nature of this first book, it still is a page turner that is very difficult to put down.  An excellent debut!ner that is very difficult to put down.  An excellent debut!	2003-08-27
1005906:US	52496677	R11DMPWZMCZ0QW	0375415408	811443692	The King in the Tree: Three Novellas	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	The Resurgence of the Romance Novel a la Steven Millhauser	Anyone who has had the pleasure of taking a journey between the two covers of a Millhauser book will approach this selection of three novellas with particular glee.  Steven Millahuser has revived the glory of Romance Novels and yet has done so with his unique skill and vision.  He has an obvious love for the Grand Epics of the past and here he delves deeply into the tale of Don Juan, transporting the Spanish lothario into the prim and measured world of England, finding a startlingly altered view of love among the proper Brits. His retelling of the legend of Tristan and Ysolt (Isolde) is even more beautiful than the versions we know so well.  His explorations of all the agonies of love's commitments overlay the exquisite longings in this tale of chivalry, fidelity, and passion.  It is impossible to read this novella without hearing Wagner's lush 'Liebestod' ringing through the air.<br />Millhauser is at his finest in the first of the three marvelously written and conceived novellas in this colection.  In what appears to be a simple tour of a house that is on the market he manages to tell us of a marriage troubled, doomed and revenged in a simply eloquent monologue by the surviving wife.  How much of this tale is purely cerebral, the workings of a mind gone mad, and how much is the actual distillation of revenge on the perpetrator of a failed marriage and death of a husband is left to us to determine.<br />Millhauser writes with elegant and eloquent prose, asking us to linger over his pages the way we might linger over a painting in a museum walk.  And indeed his stories are written as though derived or inspired from just such experiences.  Stunning writing this!	2003-08-20
1011981:US	52496677	R3MB824N5EGJEE	155583731X	512610018	Strapped for Cash: A History of American Hustler Culture	Books	5	36	37	N	Y	An Important Document, A Very Interesting Read	Mack Friedman has done his research very well indeed and has the ability to write historical data accurately and with style.  STRAPPED FOR CASH: A History of American Hustler Culture is not the usual titillating gossip book that the unfortunate choice of cover and format might suggest. Friedman has studied the history of sex workers from the 1600s to the present.  His emphasis is on male and transgender sex workers which he reports to be as old an industry as the 'world's oldest business - prostitution'.  He very smoothly and with considerable style writes about centuries of documents which reveal the fact that male sex workers (now known as hustlers) have been active throughout the world in the major cities.  His resources include many papers form the Kinsey Report and he follows the lives and reportings of a number of Kinsey's informants, pages of interesting and illuminating facts.  Friedman also devotes an entire chapter to the history of male nude photography, at times accompanying the photographs with notes about the models and the photographers.  He addresses the changes in the sex worker culture that accompanied the Industrial Revolution and both World Wars, the influence of the military on the sex market, the introduction of drugs as an accompaniment to the field, the use of the media ads including the Internet as a replacement for the brothels and street corners, and then adds the impact of AIDS and the gentrification or urban development in the major cities on the lives of those sex workers dependent on the streets for their livelihood.<br />Friedman closes his book with a chapter on first hand oral histories, sensitive interviews with all types of male sex workers.  He has the ability to reveal facts in a scientific way while making the reader understand the plight of the sex worker.  He does this in such a way that he is not disregarding the dangers of the occupation both to the workers and to the clients;  Friedman is able to demonstrate, through his careful historical evidence, that sex work is here to stay and pleads a powerful case for the sociological plight and for the care of those young men who enter this trade.  It is a quiet but plangent plea presentd in a way that causes thoughtful concern for the reader.<br />The book is well illustrated with both old and new photographs and each chapter is extensively footnoted with references.  It is an excellent contribution to gender studies.  And though the cover and format are likely to enhance sales of the book (for many of the wrong reasons), I think this tome deserves more dignity in presentation.areful historical evidence, that sex work is here to stay and pleads a powerful case for the sociological plight and for the care of those young men who enter this trade.  It is a quiet but plangent plea presentd in a way that causes thoughtful concern for the reader.<br />The book is well illustrated with both old and new photographs and each chapter is extensively footnoted with references.  It is an excellent contribution to gender studies.  And though the cover and format are likely to enhance sales of the book (for many of the wrong reasons), I think this tome deserves more dignity in presentation.	2003-08-14
1019145:US	52496677	R3A7PU02B8BNR3	0385509456	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	Creative writing about a heretofore unwriteable subject	Mark Haddon has captured the essence of the mind of an autistic child (Christopher) and has written a story that is more about the way the autistic mind needs to make the terrifying world concrete in order to exist within it than it is about the 'detective story' it purports to be.  To that end THE CURIOUS INCIDENT OF THE DOG IN THE NIGHT-TIME is a successful exercise.  Haddon understands that emotion and physical touch are beasts of prey to the autistic mind and electing to have Christopher set out on an adventure to &quot;make sense&quot; of a hostile and brutal act of murder of a dog opens the floodgate for the experiences ventured.  We are allowed to see how Christopher views marital battles and infidelities and manages the impossible task of running away from disorder in a small town in England to the even madder disorder of London.<br />All of this writing is accomplished and praiseworthy, but in the end I found the novel tedious and pushed beyond the level of tolerance in repeating number sequences, temper tantrum-like  behavior, etc.  We learn more how the autistic mind functions  than we learn the about intended detective story line.  Recommended with reservations: you need to know that you're in for some editorial extravagances and if you can get past those, then this is a unique and good book.	2003-08-08
1026096:US	52496677	R12BDVY91991LX	0972429506	254837785	Walter Falls	Books	5	3	5	N	N	On being the master of my fate, the captain of my soul	WALTER FALLS is one fine read!  Steven Gillis makes his first novel a major entry into the echelon of new and very important writers.  From the clever title to the closing sentence this most contemporary exposition of man's accepting responsibility for his actions, making choices, learning for mistakes and fighting for that final thread of recovering his soul Gillis has given us a character in Walter Brimm that is bound to become as indelible an icon as Daedalus, Caulfield, and Lomann.<br />Walter Brimm is an ordinary man, a mid-thirties investment broker who manages to hit on peripheral information enough times to become part of an important powerful firm.  He is deeply in love with his wife Gee, a university professor who has grown to the point in a stale marriage where she supplements her needs by writing for a literary magazine conceived and pitifully mismanaged by idealistic Tod.  Walter senses Gee's involvement with Tod to be more than comraderie and therein lies the thorn in his side that ignites the inception of his fall.  Normally a man of satisfactory ethics, his jealousy re his wife's increasing distance pushes him toward a 'contract with the devil' in the person of Jack Gorne.  Gorne as his nemesis states \\"Right and wrong are just words.  They're arbitrary abstractions at best.  The only ligitimate definition for what's fitting is that which gets us what we want.\\"  And here begins Walter's covert 'friendly' professional guidance for Tod's monetary management of his magazine:  through recommendations and wiles (superbly and scrupulously detailed by author Gillis in a way that even those uninitiated into the money market world can understand) Walter plots the financial destruction of Tod, a plan that will reveal to Gee the inadequacies of her 'hero' and force her return to Walter.<br />Of course it backfires and Walter's \\"fall\\" is total: his descent into his Mephistophelean pit breaks him and he loses everything. Once release from the hospital for his mental breakdown, Walter aligns with Janus ( a physician dedicated to his patients in a free clinic) and Myrian (Janus' artist lover) and slowly rebuilds his life.  Another encounter with evil in the person of Martin (a smarmy photographer and fraud investigator) drives Walter to the charging sword of making things 'right' this time, only to once again fall further - this time fully cognizant of his error and accepting responsibility for his motivations and actions. In an exquisite encounter with his 7 year old daughter who questions her father's actions, Walter expains his own life: \\"Sometimes men, and women, we - that is people - don't care as much about what happens to others and only react when something affects them directly\\"  \\"..there are rules we have to follow. Laws of conduct. ...People get what they deserve.\\"<br />In the final confrontation of Walter's Faust with Jack Gorne's Mephistopheles, Jack scolds Walter \\"Don't be such an innocent.  There isn't a man alive who doesn't act with self interest. Your friend did preciesly what he wanted.  No one was holding a gun to his head.  The only diference between you and him is that he had the balls to get what he wanted without moralizing over whether or not the means justified the end.\\"<br />Walter surveys his life, takes his due, and from his prison cell reflects \\"I think of my circumstance, and the way I came from there to here, and how in love and war, feast and famine, fair weather and foul, the distinction between one man's good fortune and another's ruin is not found in the arbitrary construct of the universe, but in the choices made day to day.  This is the order found at the heart of all dense matter.\\"<br />Getting to all of this illuminatingly simple philosophy and comment on 21st Century Everyman is the real pleasure of Steven Gillis' writing.  He has an astounding ability to create wholly three dimensional characters, people who we are allowed to examine intensively, making them understandable for even their most subtle quirks.  Walter Brimm should by all rights be a despicable person, but Gillis suffuses him with life so that for all his flaws, bad choices, misdeeds, failures, we still care deeply about this man.  Gillis writes with a flowing style that never lets the eye drop or the atention stray.  He is a beautiful wordsmith, a fine storyteller, and a soul of clarity and goodwill.  If this is a first novel, then we can all await the next trasure bound to flow from this gifted writer's pen. HIGHLY RECOMMENDEDtheir most subtle quirks.  Walter Brimm should by all rights be a despicable person, but Gillis suffuses him with life so that for all his flaws, bad choices, misdeeds, failures, we still care deeply about this man.  Gillis writes with a flowing style that never lets the eye drop or the atention stray.  He is a beautiful wordsmith, a fine storyteller, and a soul of clarity and goodwill.  If this is a first novel, then we can all await the next trasure bound to flow from this gifted writer's pen. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED	2003-08-02
1033586:US	52496677	R2637GBEMLZM9W	087923282X	344671427	String Too Short to Be Saved (Nonpareil Books, No. 5)	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	A Celebration of life - present and personal history	Donald Hall is a writer beautifully tangent to and cognizant of  the New England spine we all wish to immulate in our thoughts of the 'old American spirit', a spirit too seemingly on the wane at present -even on 4th of July celebrations this year.  His most recent collection of short stories , WILLOW TEMPLE , was my introduction to this Whitmanesque, Robert Frost-like wonder boy of observation.  In returning to his early work in the Nonpariel Books reissue of STRING TOO SHORT TO BE SAVED one wonders why he has remained in the background, and hasn't found the wide audience he deserves.<br />&quot;STRING...&quot; is a series of short stories of Hall's recollections of spending his summers with his beloved grandparents in New Hampshire.  All phases of farming and maturing from a small child to a young adult are addressed in a wholly readable, poetic, illuminating fashion.  Hall knows how to describe nature as well as anyone writing today.  He also revives an appreciation for his roots that we could all study as journeys toward  finding ourselves.  &quot;To be without history is to be forgotten&quot; he writes.&quot;My grandfather did not know the maiden names of either of his grandmothers. I thought that to be forgotten must be the worst fate of all.&quot;  Hall invites us to accompany him on his memories of haying, picking blueberries, visiting the odd group of people who have become indelible American daguerreotypes for him. &quot;The farm was a form: not a set of rules on the wall, but like the symmetry of winter and summer, or like the balance of day and night over the year, June against December.  My grandfather lived by the form all his life, and my summers on the farm were my glimpse of it.&quot;<br />Simple gifts, these.  And the simplicity of Donald Hall's writing is what makes it so readable and so memorable.  The book stands solidly on its own as a definitive New England memoir. In this new reissue there is an added Epilog which traces Hall's return to his Hew Hapshire memories and farm after many life changes. This Epilogue is worth the price of the book.  If only this edition weren't tainted by the crudely inappropriate pen and ink pictures imposed on the pages of each new chapter.  But that is the only unnecessary clutter in this otherwise tender book.ew Hapshire memories and farm after many life changes. This Epilogue is worth the price of the book.  If only this edition weren't tainted by the crudely inappropriate pen and ink pictures imposed on the pages of each new chapter.  But that is the only unnecessary clutter in this otherwise tender book.	2003-07-27
1038195:US	52496677	RAO8HF2CC4SGU	0374139806	915252712	Digressions on Some Poems by Frank O'Hara: A Memoir	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Much more than a memoir: a revelation	Joe LeSueur has provided the cultural history of American arts in the mid-20th Century with this seamlessly interesting and informative inside perspective on the important role of Frank O'Hara - poet, art critic, champion of the visual, musical, and literary arts par excellence.  DIGRESSIONS ON SOME POEMS BY FRANK O'HARA is not only a clever and viable means to writing a memoir: it provides insights into the growingly important works of O'Hara who some are now ranking as the 20th century version of Walt Whitman as Poet of the City.  While many of the poems introducing each chapter are well known to us, it is the window to the world of O'Hara's life and times that is so well served by Joe LeSueur's writing.  Frank O'Hara was bonded with such luminaries as Willem de Kooning, Elaine de Kooning, Larry Rivers, Joan Mitchell, Jackson Pollock, Grace Hartigan, Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper Johns, Lincoln Kirsten, WH Auden, Kenneth Koch - the list is endless.  O'Hara was a behind the scenes observor, never hogging the limelight and in fact avoiding it, always with his keen eye on good art, good music, good writing, and always turning out poems that only now are being read seriously by the general public.  Joe LeSueur live with O'Hara, joining O'Hara in his flagrantly 'Out' gay life, hobnobbing with all the other gay artists of his time in a way that makes him the recorder of that important preStonewall age, a time when even the giants such as Aaron Copeland, Leonard Bernstein, Samuel Barber, etc were closeted.  At times LeSueur borders on the gossipy side, but that only enhances his subject.  What we are left with here is a wonderfully composed tribute to a great artist and supporter of the arts.  The overall effect of this book is monumental, and at the same time exceedingly conversational.  Very Highly Recommended.	2003-07-23
1046087:US	52496677	R2GKARPLVQVTEE	0226042901	353865149	Juan Munoz	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An excellent document of an important artist's life	Sadly, Juan Munoz, the uniquely gifted artist from Spain, died far too early.  His gifts as a sculptor and a draughtsman and a sage were most impressive.  This catalogue which accompanies a travelling exhibition now in Los Angeles is in every way a fitting tribute to Munoz.  Not only are the essays included insightful, they also heighten the excitement engendered by walking in and around and through the works of the clever and tender Munoz.  No easy task this, as Munoz himself said 'much of the art is dependent on the interaction between the viewer and the pieces.'  The caliber of photography is uniformly excellent with as much sensitivity to the various arrangements of Munoz' &quot;Everyman&quot; figurative sculptures as to the &quot;Raincoat&quot; drawings.  When the catalogue was first published Munoz was very much alive and part of the exhibition at the Tate Modern in London.  Now we have only his notes, some videos of his installations which include conversations with the artist, and this elegant catalogue to document a meaningful life and body of work.  A Highly Recommended book on just about every level.	2003-07-17
1049695:US	52496677	R2TGGDQ7IX5TTL	2879392527	176988947	Art Tomorrow	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Wise, thoughtful,  stimulating treatise on 'Whither Art'	Edward Lucie-Smith continues to plumb the fields of the visual arts with excellent research, a seemingly endless library of images, candor, welcome opinion, and in short, provides insights into a field that at times defies verbal description.  He is an adept art historian (probably the most informed of all the writers creating art books today), a fine writer and is able to suffuse all of his commentary with wit and spice.<br />Lucie-Smith makes it clear from the first page that this book is meant to address only art of the 21st Century by limiting his examples and references to the visual arts since 1990 to the present.  Naturally he is not writing in a vacuum: he generously addresses Modernism, the movement that began the 20th century as a revolt against academian representational, figurative story art. He develops his line of thinking with superb observations and examples of how ( with the eventual obliteration of observed subject matter in the form of expressionsim, abstract expressionism, and finally minimalism ) artists traveled across this bridge of destruction to once again depict the, yes, 'human condition'. He divides this marvelously illustrated book into sections on the influence and roles of museums and public places art, on the vastly important (surprise) heritage of Pop Art on the development of intensely personal agendas of the artists, a re-evaluation of re-examining the past (art history) and appropriating art's foundations to suit the new tools of video, site specific art, art created to shock,  photography, three dimensional installation art, environmental art, feminisim and gay art, and a return to painting the figure no matter how distorted or altered. He also takes the time to view the influence of globalization on how all art is made: excellent pages about African, Australian Aboriginal, African Americam, Asian, Indian, and art from the new Russia and eastern European countries abound with superb, highly informative illustrations and commentary.<br />Reading this book - and I do mean READING which in the case of massively sized, color-pregnant art tomes is unusual given the fact that these coffee table books are used more for browsing than learning - is like attending a full museum-curated exhibition on the present state of art.  The advantage is that no musuem could be as inclusive of all the types of art herein represented.  No matter how seasoned the reader, this superb book will enlighten, inform, and impress.  There is so much to be absorbed here that this is a book that should become a staple in the libraires of all those who are committed to keeping abreast of the visual arts in the 21st Century.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED! Kudos, once again, to Edward Lucie-Smith and to TERRAIL Books.ary.<br />Reading this book - and I do mean READING which in the case of massively sized, color-pregnant art tomes is unusual given the fact that these coffee table books are used more for browsing than learning - is like attending a full museum-curated exhibition on the present state of art.  The advantage is that no musuem could be as inclusive of all the types of art herein represented.  No matter how seasoned the reader, this superb book will enlighten, inform, and impress.  There is so much to be absorbed here that this is a book that should become a staple in the libraires of all those who are committed to keeping abreast of the visual arts in the 21st Century.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED! Kudos, once again, to Edward Lucie-Smith and to TERRAIL Books.	2003-07-14
1051865:US	52496677	RG0JX2KK5AGKT	1902881478	162682246	The Dance of Geometry	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	Observation explored, dissected, and glorified	Brian Howell has written a 'novel' that is unique on many levels and on most of those levels he is eminently successful.  The concept of revealing how an artist of the stature of Vermeer developed his unique method of painting by first (Part 1), letting us hear his child's mind absorb all of the vagaries of light, visual planes, textures, and psychological feeding as young Johannes Vermeer follows his Delft family through the life of the 17th century Dutch atmosphere and training; second,(Part 2) placing us beside an outside observor recording all the intricacies of the adult and successful painter Vermeer became; and third (Part 3), bringing it all round through the tale of a 1980's painter who 'copies' paintings for a living, with all the 20th century information about art history, psychology, and the wacky weird world of business that surrounds art today.  If there are stodgy sentence structures and a penchant for the academe in the first part, these are more than compensated as Howell grows into the more readable dialogue  of parts two and three.<br />In the end, we are left with a fundamental explanation of how we, as viewers of art from any era, pass by a great painting, stop a few steps later, then return to truly enter the world the artist has left in front of our eyes and minds.  Reading THE DANCE OF GEOMETRY offers insights into the techniques behind fine painting and in doing so Howell has written a 'novel' that is equally valid as a textbook on art appreciation.  Well worth your time for either reason, or hopefully for both.	2003-07-12
1055371:US	52496677	R3272E8VV6G6GG	0312272057	433455404	Dry: A Memoir	Books	5	83	92	N	Y	Hilarious and Heartrending	Augusten Burroughs is one of the most entertaining writers on the current scene.  After reading his RUNNING WITH SCISSORS and accepting the fact that it was truly a memoir (ie, he really DID have that childhood!), most of us who loved that book couldn't wait to see if he would be able to maintain his particular level of genius dry humor.  Well, here it is.  DRY is the continued life of this amazing writer.  It is one of the most hilarious books around - Burroughs candid observations written sotto voce without quotation marks could be the dialogue for the best standup comedians on any stage. And he is not kidding!<br />A book about alcoholism, or rather about any kind of addiction (crack cocaine, alcohol, sex, heroine, etc), is not the expected basis for a comedic book. But Burroughs takes us through blitzkrieg drunkeness, living at the bottom of the toilet, commiting to rehab, then the whole process of AA meetings and therapy  and  manages to make us laugh uncontrollably.  His cast of characters includes his co-workers in his successful career in advertising, his pre-rehab friends, his acquaintances from his gay rehab group, his assorted roommates and quasilovers, and his real devotion to Pighead, a would-be lover now dying of AIDS.  Doesn't sound funny, does it?  But life has its own way of offering perspectives in bizarre focal fields and Burroughs knows just how to make it all work.  His life is a fantasy trip, and a dangerous one at that, but through all his highs and lows he keeps us on his side, and we willingly laugh and cry right along with him. This is a superb second book. Read them both - and then take a little time for introspection about how we all interact, knee deep in our foibles.	2003-07-09
1059672:US	52496677	R1SRGX1MZ2CBR8	0316738956	634639403	Hunger: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	A small kernel begets a mighty harvest of a book	Author Elise Blackwell understands minimalism: offer a minute corner of an idea and allow that to engender volumes of information to the senses. HUNGER is a physically small (123 pages, and tiny pages at that) book that is a reflection of a botanist recalling the actualities of the Nazi seige of Leningrad (from September 8, 1941 to January 27, 1944), focusing on the winter of hunger ('41-'42) when thousands died from hunger and cold, resorting to cannabalism, stealing, murder, and prostitution as a means of survival.  As a member of the Botanical Institute our narrator reveals his own stealing of the intitutes guarded seed, eating even a small portion that saved his life but could have saved the life of his wife had he shared.<br />And here begins a series of memories about his life before the seige, about his infidelities to his wife, about the various exotic ports he visited in the name of science (and indulgence).<br />And he shares his regrets, as he survives the seige and lives in New York years later in a house storing only unperishable food.  \\"I told myself that pain was the price of life, its absence was the step into death.\\"<br />Author Blackwell shares her legacy of a rich exposure to botany and an eqally rich knowledge of fascinating places of history such as her often used metaphor of Babylon as a perecursor to Leningrad.  She sets her visuals well: \\"...I saw a man on a stretcher, the left half of his head gone and stuffed with cotton wool, as if the the fabric could sort numbers, direct his limbs, feel pain, remember a beloved.\\"  And after the seige has ended and the people of Leningrad return to life, she places these words in the mouth of her botanist narrator:  \\"a bit of decency and the physical labor and small rewards of cultivating a garden from seed are the best we can strive or hope for to dull the pain of lost expectation, or to cover our vices of weakness, boredom, and need.\\"<br />This is a small book in size but the experience it engenders in the reader is mighty.  A most impressive first novel from a writer well worth watching.reader is mighty.  A most impressive first novel from a writer well worth watching.	2003-07-06
1060480:US	52496677	RZFNNRYXIQXCT	0805071709	515201292	What I Loved: A Novel	Books	5	9	14	N	Y	The Key is in the Title	WHAT I LOVED is a title that grips you only after reading the final page.  Siri Hustvedt is an enormously gifted writer, not only as a weel-turned craftsman with words, but a richly intelligent woman who shares a wealth of information about art, art history, about the history of psychology and the variations of 'moral insanity', all the while weaving a spellbinding story that digs its claws into our psyche until the closing words. The story of the novel concerns the interweaving of the lives of two couples (with additional persons as the story unravels) who interact on intellectual, sensual, and familial  levels.  There are two children who play major roles in this tale, but to explain those roles would be to destroy the page-turning suspense of a thriler.  Her narrator is an art historian and writer and it is through his eyes that we are allowed entry into the histories and lives of the others. \\"The recollections of an older man are different from those of a youung man.  What seems vital at forty my lose its significance at seventy. We manufacture stories, after all, from the fleeting sensory material that bombards us at every instant, a fragmented series of pictures, conversations, odors, and the touch of things and people.  We delete most of it to live with some semblance of order, and the reshuffling of memory goes on until we die.\\"<br />Not only has Hustvedt created fascinating poeple, she manages to bewitch us with the words and thoughts of artists, both refined and experimental.\\"..cliches are deadening, aren't they?... By their very nature they kill meaning.\\"<br />And after all is said and done with WHAT I LOVED the narrator  closes by saying \\"Every story we tell about ourselves can only be told in the past tense.  It winds backward from where we now stand, no longer the actors in the story but its spectators who have chosen to speak.\\"  It is the WHAT of the story, of our lives, that is within these pages ..not just the WHO. Writing a review of a book and giving so much space to the author's own words is the highest form of compliment. Highly recommended.ing so much space to the author's own words is the highest form of compliment. Highly recommended.	2003-07-05
1073593:US	52496677	R1LC3G77G685HE	0393323579	156190911	Servants of the Map: Stories	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Erudite, poetic, deeply enriching stories	SERVANTS OF THE MAP is a unique collection of short stories by the redoubtable Andrea Barrett.  While most of us felt she needed the space and stretched-canvas-epic-form to weave her magic, in this collection of six shortish stories she proves she is as adept at relating her tales woven equally with  Apollonian/scientific and Dionysian/sensual facets in tight, capsular fashion.  She still manages to create vistas rather than views and lineages rather than one dimensional lifetimes.  Now and then I find it necessary to break out of her luxuriously poetic language and take a laudatory appraisal of this women's depth of scientific information.  The research for such diverse stories pays off by giving the reader the pleasure of discovery of cartography, botany, medical diseases etc in a flowing, painless entry to the richly detailed minds of her characters.  This is nothing short of a wondrous book, on to be revisited often - one story at a time - like a treasured scrapbook travelogue!	2003-06-25
1089326:US	52496677	R3MK36FSFCVDS1	1585673994	969379628	A Night Of Serious Drinking	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	Astonishingly Timeless	A NIGHT OF SERIOUS DRINKING is an amazing, short novel written by Rene Daumal in French in 1938 and translated into English in 1978. It has now been reissued thanks to the vision of TUSK IVORIES, a publishing house committed to restoring classic books from Europe, Asia, and Latin America, books that are profoundly important but happen to disappear off the shelves of bookstores.<br />Rene Daumal was a poet, writer and philosopher who preceeded the Beat Generation by twenty some years, writing about the absurdity of life as we are leading it.  His title &quot;Night..&quot; refers metaphorically to the thirst we have to make sense of a world of endless intoxication.  He introduces characters/types who drown themselves in alcohol in order to expound on fantasy ideas of the meaning of life. He then takes us on a &quot;utopian tour&quot; of life as a fantastical house dismembered and reassembled in a bizarre series of levels of sci-fi porportions - an artificial Paradise which peels away to a Kafkaesque, rotten core. He finally addresses the pie-in-the-sky concept of mythology and religion as a means of purification/evolution only to call forth his fellow drinking partners to wake up to the possibility of change.  For all the surreal maelstrom of his intoxicated revelation of society as we are living  it, Daumal makes his narrator introduce hope 'seeing the myriad atoms of possibility'.<br />This is a profound little book that is richly written, understands the use of metaphor, and calls us  to step out of the dark hole of depression to view the 'available light' in the future.  Not a one-read book, this little treasure asks to be re-visited frequently. And now, thanks to Tusk Ivories, we can.	2003-06-13
1090734:US	52496677	R2LEEBEJ3TN62K	0674004612	517955623	Reporting the Universe (The William E. Massey Sr. Lectures in the History of American Civilization, 2000)	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	Inside the mind of EL Doctorow	For those who have loved the delicious novels of this inordinately talented writer (eg 'Ragtime', 'The City of God', etc) here is the opportunity to read some illuminating thoughts by a man who is as fine a philosopher and thinker as he is a novelist.  This collection of fourteen short essays range in topics from memoirs about what inspired Doctorow to become a writer, to probing and challenging forays into religion, to the sad state of our US government with suggestions on how we can regain control of a government no longer &quot;of, by, and for the people&quot;.  He frequently quotes Walt Whitman and Emerson and the Age of Enlightment, and embraces the idea of a God who is ever-changing as our society and world evolve. At times humorous, at times fearful of our direction as a country, Doctorow continues to reveal a fine mind as well as a consistly fine gift for writing. Recommended for the reader who wants to face universal questions.	2003-06-12
1092048:US	52496677	RGIVUKNXQW4RZ	0786885831	342022559	In the Company of Angels: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	"Behold I tell you a Mystery"	In times of wars throughout history (and we are in such a time at this moment) tales of miracles, reports of spiritual or celestial sightings arise out of the need to find meaning to the irrational state of fear, chaos, and terror.  If ever there were a need for guardian angels it is in such times.  And N.M. Kelby has created a clerical Mystery in her novel IN THE COMPANY OF ANGELS.  This novel tells a fine story but it is told almost in the form of an epic poem.<br />Tournai, Belgium 1940 is the setting and the characters who prepare this mystery play and perform it include a little Jewish girl (Marie Claire) and her grandmother/botanist, a chocolatier (Remy) and his wife (who is either mad or spiritually enlightened, depending on your stance)and daughter (Anne) who is a novitate in a convent decimated by the Nazi bombings leaving alive only Anne and Mother Xavier who head the Resistance in helping Jews escape the Holocaust. The other character is the Commander seeking destruction of the convent and the Resistance, little knowing that his much loved Anne known in his earlier times is part of the convent.  The entire story takes a turn from calamity to whispers of salvation when Marie Claire is rescued by the nuns and begins to work her angelic miracles on the town of a hundred bells, the holy place of God called Tournai.  The author weaves a beautiful web of intrigue, love, fear, passion, and resurrection among these unforgetable characters.  No words are wasted: every line, every poetic utterance enhances this small story about how we choose to live our lives and how we grapple with our destinies and our spiritual journeys.  In any other author's hands this would be a maudlin soap opera for a B movie.  In Kelby's intensely personal style it becomes a parable.  Highly Recommended. Thank you Sue, for introducing me to this experience.	2003-06-11
1093429:US	52496677	R3FJ3LUODH78GN	0618329811	150980591	Willow Temple: New and Selected Stories	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Tender yet unflinchingly real stories of Americana	Donald Hall is a fine, intelligent craftsman of a writer.  He knows how to distill volumes into a few pages, how to inform his reader about the spectrum of life from which he plucks his characters with a minimalism that in other hands would create a cold if not frigid climate. Hall is to short stories what Charles Ives and John Adams  and Aaron Copeland are to music, Richard Russo and E.L. Doctorow and E. Annie Proulx are to novels:  he has found the six senses in American life and weaves them into tapestries like few others.  There is a bit of Robert Frost, of Walt Whitman, of Wallace Stevens and of William Carlos Wiliams here, and their presence is honored and hallowed.<br />Donald Hall is concerned with the cycle of life, not only the reverent form, but also the rocks and boulders that our lives encounter.  He is able to speak in the voices of children and adults as narrators, wades through the toxicity of alcoholic parents, the foibles of those that have and those that have not, deals with the cold reality of dying and its aftermath on the living, and yet is able through his incredible gifts with words to make elegies and songs, instead of eulogies and bleatings.  These stories are brief in pages, nearly all of them have the terse no-nonsense New England psycheand stoicism, and yet each story brings a desire to sit and cogitate, assuring ourselves we will not forget the folks we've just met.  Read and weep, read and chuckle, but by all means .... read.	2003-06-10
1098168:US	52496677	RZAYH9V0OB17I	0375414819	366389334	A Fine Balance	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A stunning, mesmerizing, exceptional  achievement	A FINE BALANCE is a novel of epic proportions - in length and in subject and in creativity. Rohinton Mistry writes with magisterial style, weaving spells with the English language as a matrix for the languages of India, conveys with thunderous impact the incredible poverty and fragile line between living/existing/thriving in a country beseiged with political squalor and sociologic catastrophe of the extant caste system, and yet despite this cinerama canvas of 'life in India' in the mid-1970s his focus remains on the very personal lives of his four main characters - people we grow to love, identify with and fight for in this struggle for survival.  Not for a moment would I suggest that this is a novel of angst or of despondency, a book that will leave you only weeeping (though there is much of that well written here). A recurring phrase that Mistry places in the mouths of nearly all of  of his characters is &quot;This is only a small obstacle.&quot;  Now if that isn't the strongest hint of the faith of the downtrodden, then look to the title of this tome: A FINE BALANCE is the life search for understanding the 'slings and arrows of outrageous fortune' and finding that goodness comes through acts of kindness and caring, acts that can step over the vast abyss of a caste system.  This is a fine book, richly detailed in atmosphere and scents and tender humor and very human emotion.  A brilliant book that should be read by everyone who wants to understand India and its mysteries, universal truths, and who appreciate extraordinarily rich writing.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!	2003-06-06
1111900:US	52496677	RRO7XWEFM2YT1	0374208816	585984608	Middle Earth: Poems	Books	5	3	10	N	Y	A successful wandering into the strange world of Henri Cole	MIDDLE EARTH as a title is seductive, though not nearly so seductive as the always-near-the-point-of-revelation that these sensually beautiful poems deliver.  Henri Cole explores middle age, reflecting on his parents, his memories of childhood, and examines his responses to the return to the Japan of his youth, muses on longing, desire, beauty, and fear.  These poems are all personal, memoiresque musings and in the hands of less secure poets such revelations can seem more self serving than sharing.  But in Coles' rolling lines we come to understand or at least explore our own fears and delights as well as entering his middle earth of life.  This is a lovely and elegant collections of ethereal poems by a man who understands his craft.  And your intuition will lead you to the subterranean truths gently cloaked in his Middle Earth.	2003-05-25
1116207:US	52496677	R1Q6TEKEUQ2FVN	0374235201	959907601	Poems the Size of Photographs	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Murmurs from the Darkroom	Les Murray is an iconoclast poet. His style is very much his own and while his precedents are apparent in ee cummings, John Berryman, and even Gerard Manley Hopkins, his voice remains one of a singer on the plains of the Australian landscape.  This collection of short poems forces him (by choice) into brevity and for him this is not an easy assignment.  Each poem is indeed like a photograph of a captured thought or sight or flight of fancy that he then gives to us as though we are in his darkroom, watching the meanings alter with each bath solution.  Example:<br />&quot;THE MEANING OF EXISTENCE  Everything except language/knows the meaning of existence./Trees, plants, rivers, time/know nothing else. They express it/moment by moment as the universe.  //<br />Even this fool of a body/lives it in part, and would/have full dignity within it/but for the ignorant freedom/of my talking mind.&quot;  Terse, funny, touching, self critical.....this is a warm little volume of beautifully wrought poems.  Makes you want more.	2003-05-21
1116416:US	52496677	RTEZOZMY56226	0971031096	213864537	American Linden	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	The Joys of First Person Singular	Writing about poetry is ludicrous, especially when the poems are written by Matthew Zapruder.  The poems in AMERICAN LINDEN are intensely personal, not only in style of placing words on paper, but also in the spectum of ideas that flow through his brain. Many of these gems are about the actual attempt to write poems - aborted starts, frustrated beginnings. But when this poet sets foot outside and allows his kaleidoscopic gaze to pause on barns, birds, memories, imaginings, then his mastery of form and communication sets sail and the results are fresh and scintillating.<br />It is ludicrous to write about poetry....this poet distills beyond essence ideas that only tap at our imagination.  &quot;I try to be a good hillside/my eyesight salty and clear,/and hold still all night. /..../ All the next hours will be empty shelves./ Until I'm a storm,/ and only a flower knows me.&quot;  I suppose one has to say something in a review: Read these please.	2003-05-21
1119516:US	52496677	R36CO6CFXPFQK1	3908161517	438867732	Ideal and Reality: The Image of the Body in 20th-Century Art from Bonnard to Warhol	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Fine Collection of Drawings of the Nude	This handsome book was published as a 'catalogue' to accompany an exhibition of over 200 works of art at the Salzburg Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art in 1999.  IDEAL AND REALITY: The Image of the Body in 20th Century Art from Bonnard to Warhol - the title of the exhibition and the catalogue - describes well the feast that is in store for art lovers who crave a well integrated overview of how the human body was perceived by the artists of the 20th Century - the body being the only constant as subject in this panorama of rapidly changing schools of art. The introduction by the curator, Peter Weiermair, is brief but suggests the many expositions and contradictions that faced both artist and public during the last century.  One example line of thought embraces the turmoil of understated sexuality in the early drawings of Schiele, Klimt, and Rodin to the blatant freedom of expression of Paul Cadmus, Jared French, David Hockney, Francesco Clemente and Eric Fischl.  The real joy of this book is the fact that each of the art works illustrated (some 140) is given a full page with excellent color separations, and high quality paper.  And while most of the artists ae well known, there are some surprises that reaffirm the fact that we can't know ALL the gifted people who have drawn the model.  Some artist rarely included in such exhibitions (such as Horst Janssen, Francisco Lopez, Alfons Walde, Franz Wiegle) are given equal space with Picasso, Bonnard, Rodin, Beuys, Lucian Freud, Vuillard etc.  This is a book to add depth to every library that loves the figure!	2003-05-19
1119706:US	52496677	R13GVJYG2747SZ	0971341575	686625354	WILL@epicqwest.com: A Medicated Memoir	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Hilarious comedy unflinchingly exposing its dark side	Tom Grimes has a better handle on life as we are currently surviving it today than just about any author I have read.  ...Through the means of a novel he is able to give insights on this point in history. Our submersion in the pavillion of our computer(s) as a means of programmed thinking and responding and communicating; our universal reliance on drugs (the prescribed versions) to balance our perceptions and reactions to the world out there; our numbed and dumbed response to other people and to events at large; our homogenous vocabulary populated with email-quality words, often not even spellchecked or proofread; our dreamscheme altered view of the future and the educational tools to get there in a hurry.  Tom Grimes takes all of this potentially threatening view of present day reality and from it creates a comedy of 'epic' proportions.  You find yourself laughing till tears flow on nearly every fast-paced page of this short book, marvelling how bright and informed and clever it is written, only to relax a moment and realize that from another vantage all of this 'truth' that seems so entertaining is SCARY!  I think this author understands comedy so well that he has been able to create a very important book, an electron microscopic view of where we are and where that might just lead.  And in addition to this gift, he  has successfully created indelible characters with a story, taken on its own merit, that is a wholly satisfying novel.  What wit, what insight, and what writing gifts are here!  This is one fine new book.  ...	2003-05-18
1122156:US	52496677	R67P9L6KWQ1IB	0312239025	99203539	A Lynching in the Heartland: Race and Memory in America	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Important contribution to the studies of Racism in America	James H. Madison has provided us with a book about an incident that no one wants to know about - a bit of ugly history that we would rather not think, much less READ,  about.  A LYNCHING IN THE HEARTLAND: Race and Memory in America is a brilliant investigation and commentary on the heinous incident on August 7, 1930 in Marion, Indiana.  On that quiet night in the quiet heartland of America, far removed from the South with its long-standing history of racial clashes, two African American men were snatched from the jail by white mob frenzy and hung from a tree for the 'dastardly deed' of murder and rape of a white couple. No trial, no conviction, just an acting out of racial hatred, an act captured in the most famous photograph of a lynching in the American context.  Madison reports the events factually with a mesmerizingly accurate attention to detail.  But the story does not stop there. Madison has researched the history prior to the incident and the subsequent followup that identified brilliant African American leaders and challengers, one of whom was the third man not lynched on that hideous evening in 1930 - James Cameron.  Madison then reflects on the whole history of racism in this country, beginning with the equally offensive murders and tortures of the American Indians and extending down to extant incidences up to the time of the publication of this valuable, disturbing book.<br />Madison repeatedly makes the point that if we don't study our history and vividly recall our past then we are doomed to persist in unjust racial crimes.  This is a tough book to swallow, but a very important one for all of us to read.  Only by exposing ourselves to the ugly events of our history can we hope to learn and prevent such madness from recurring.  An eloquent, vital, and impressive contribution.	2003-05-16
1123938:US	52496677	R3OCJT8W1YL852	0803242972	469873863	In the Shadow of Memory (American Lives)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Amazing, Absorbing, Enlightening, Enchanting	Floyd Skloot.  An unlikely name, an incredible medical survivor, and a monument to the durability of the human spirit.  IN THE SHADOW OF MEMORY is a memoir by a man who by rights should be unable to have access to memory.  On December 7, 1988 ( a date he frequently references ) Floyd Skloot became infected with a virus that all but destroyed his brain.  He was left without the ability to ambulate, to process information, to remember from moment to moment what his intentions were in the most basic maneuvering things of life.  Prior to his illness he  was a writer and a poet and after fourteen years of heroic struggle, he has been able to write about his journey to acceptance of his condition, his childhood as a member of a family with a highly bizarre mother, a distant father and a gradually self-destructive brother.  So with all this permanent brain damage, how is Floyd Skloot able to produce this elegant, compelling, warmly humorous, insightful group of essays?  Well, VERY slowly - is the main answer.  He explains that it took about eleven months to write one essay, bit by fragmented bit.<br />And what essays they are!  The first half of his book is devoted to relating his struggle out of the abyss of an obliterated memory of his past. In his words &quot;Memory is what connects us and memory is what has torn us apart.&quot; It is a phenomenal, charismatic paeon to the strength of the human spirit.  In the last half we are treated to meditations (with much humor) on &quot;Kismet&quot;, &quot;Pal Joey,&quot; and &quot;Hamlet&quot; as well as other philosophical meanderings.  Finally he comes round the circle of a life that began with a cruelly obsessive-compulsive mother whose rigidity drives the family apart, to a point where he is recovering from an illness that has erased much of his unwanted past, and  to a quiescent, final stage of Alzheimer's Disease mother. The irony is at once humorous and touching.<br />To Skloot's credit as a writer, brain injured or no, he presents this wild ride with quiet compassion and sensitivity without ever becoming maudlin.  This is book for all of us who think we have had hard knocks in our lives:  the teacher, the mentor is here within these lovely pages.presents this wild ride with quiet compassion and sensitivity without ever becoming maudlin.  This is book for all of us who think we have had hard knocks in our lives:  the teacher, the mentor is here within these lovely pages.	2003-05-14
1132576:US	52496677	R2ITBEAVIGUWOY	0151007640	240499638	Crabwalk	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Crabwalking history as novel	Gunther Grass, a Nobel Prize laureate, continues to turn out books that are uniquely his own and invariably fascinating.  In CRABWALK (the name refers to the manner in which crabs ambulate, always moving to the right or left rather than forward)Grass brings to our attention a maritime tragedy that occured in January 1945 - the sinking of the \\"Wilhelm Gustloff\\" from Russian torpedoes, a tragedy that took the lives of 6,000 - 10,000 people, and a tragedy that has all but disappeared from the annals of history.  Grass uses this heinous incident as the fulcrum from which to give us the history of the building of the ship, the state of life in the German Reich that politically drove the creation of this 'people's boat', and the reaction of the German people at large to this hidden tragedy. He does this all through the narration of one man born on the night of the sinking, a man whose mother is a bizarre 'true believer' and through his failed marriage that resulted in a child who in adolesence replicates his journalist father's drive to uncover the facts of the story by creating a website on his computer.  Sound complex?  Well, by crabwalking his way through this format, Grass leads us on a fascinating mystery and psychological unpealing of dysfunction - German, Jewish, interpersonal, and familial.  Despite the magnitude of unveiling  (for many of us) the gross incident of the 'Wilhelm Gustloff', the overriding strength of the novel is the exploration of father/son relationships. \\"What can be done when a son takes possession of his father's thoughts, thoughts that have been festering for years under a lid, and even translates then into action?\\"  There is a profound statement in the telling of this story that will challenge every reader to examine how parents  influence their children and the active feedback of that interaction.  CRABWALK is beautifully written, wise, acerbic, rich in humor and philosophical overtones, and is a mighty fine read!	2003-05-07
1135472:US	52496677	R336ZWDJI1GOBP	1576751678	578761329	The Ultimate Competitive Advantage: Secrets of Continually Developing a More Profitable Business Model	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An approach from outside the corporate walls	THE ULTIMATE COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE is obviously a book written for companies, large and small, a sort of self help book on a grand scale.  Not being a corporate type I read this book more on the stance of evaluating the quality of writing and communication.  This is a very finely tuned book, rich with examples of what works and what hinders the race for success in today's market place.  The information presented is sound (very informative for the non-corporate types), well paced, and more important VERY readable.  It is rare for books of this type to extend their appeal beyond the targeted readership.  But I think Mitchell and Coles have created a user-friendly document that indeed has more universal appeal as a guide to even the most miniscule businesses - and by that I mean one-man operations such as the field of art galleries, etc....  Kudos to the writers for their sensitivity and tenacity in getting their freely shared ideas across to a needy public!	2003-05-04
1137634:US	52496677	R1942YWY0E61KR	0300098782	297684387	Leonardo da Vinci, Master Draftsman (New York Metropolitan Museum of Art Series)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	The Definitive Tome on da Vinci as genius	LEONARDO DA VINCI: MASTER DRAFTSMAN is a magnificent addition to the library about this extraordinary Renaissance genius.  Published as a 'catalogue' for the exhibition that just left the Metropolitan Museum in New York, the weighty book is successful on all levels.  The Curator and driving force fo the exhibition, Carmen C. Bambach, has firmly established her credentials in this vast survey of da Vinci's drawings of human anatomy, both precise observations (eg 'Abdomen and Left Leg of a Nude Man Standing in Profile page 556) and artistic distortions ( the grotesque faces on pages 684 - 693), of his 'inventions' as a scientist, of simple observations ('A Copse of Trees'on page 469 for instance), of the technical aspects of drawing and painting (brilliantly executed examples of draping the figure as on pages 289 and 563), and sketches for numerous painting proposals.  The first 225 pages of this elegant book are devoted to various essays about da Vinci, all written by erudite scholars who are immensely readable.  The last half of the book is an in-depth presentation of the catalogue of the show, serenely annotated by Carmen Bambach.  There are ample sections of documentation and easy references to the bibiliography and timeline for da Vinci's life.  The drawings and paintings are beautifuly reproduced on first quality paper and the book, (though heavy as a lap book!), is artistically designed and produced.  This magnificent volume will be the gold standard for da Vinci's drawings and should be part of every library on the Renaissance and on art history.  Highly Recommended.	2003-05-02
1138241:US	52496677	R2HVO2SR8Z2BUB	0374528799	104960926	A Short History of the Shadow: Poems	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Full of wonder shared with human frailty	Chales Wright is an amazingly fine poet.  How he is able to look and see things we fastscan everyday and in a mere few phrases turn that blink into quiet monument remains a wonder to all who read him.  Read?  No, luxuirate.  Wright's strange friendship with death introduces us to dark rooms, hand held in his lighted clasp, and gives meaning to all the mysteries nature giggles about in the corner.  He  is able to pluck the most mundane of ideas and place them in a land of myth and history and encourages us to think? Yes.  But also he encourages just to read his poems again and again..........along with the poems of others, he adds, smilingly.  Continuingly recommended.	2003-05-02
1140629:US	52496677	R510SC6CUEKQ0	0374173990	144062863	I Am Not Jackson Pollock: Stories	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Vagaries in the search of reality	John Haskell is a writer new to the reading (though not the performing) world and his voice is one that stirs interest, primarily because it is unique. He tells these nine 'short stories' - they seem more like extended meditations or themes and fugues - in a manner that combines known public figures (a particular penchant for old movie stars and old movies) with imaginary cast members to explore the thin line of reality vs fiction. He makes bizarre choices in combining such people as Orson Welles, Joseph Coton, Falstaff, Prince Hal and Janet Leigh to ponder self perception:\\"...once we think we know who we are, to change who we are means giving up what we love, even if we hate it.\\" The haiku poet Basho is intertwined with thoughts about John Keats;  Keats falls short of relating to Fanny Brawne until he faces his moment of death; Basho confesses he \\"...wants to find beauty and harmony, but something is always distracting him - people usually - pulling him off the road.\\"  Mercedes McCambridge, the devil voice of Linda Blair in \\"The Exorcist\\", struggles with alcoholism, Joan of Arc is recallled historically and through the various guises of the actress who portrayed her in the film.  Sound confusing?  Well it is, and sometimes the obtuseness of Haskell's technique borders on not the absurd, but the senseless.  I think we're seeing the early work of a mind that is rich in fluid imagination. I feel as though this author has a lot to say but is hiding behind the likes of Jackson Pollock and Joan of Arc and Ganesha for fear of not being noticed.  I don't think he needs this gimmick and I eagerly await his next novel. He WILL be noticed on his own rights.	2003-04-30
1145997:US	52496677	R24IOUBI8V2DYQ	0679420428	179043206	Mrs. Dalloway (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Worth Struggling, this Acquired Taste becomes Addiction	George softly sings WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA WOOLF? at the end of Edward Albee's play of the same name and his sotted, beleaguered wife Martha answers \\" I am, George, I am.......\\".  1962 that was, and Albee's erudite play sent us all to the library to find out who was this Virginia Woolf.  Those were college days when Woolf was known to the literati but somewhat of an interestingly enigma to the world in general. Now her century has passed and her works and life are being recognized for the importance they deserve.  Re-reading MRS. DALLOWAY reinforces past college memeories of just how dazzling a thinker, poet, writer, and personality she was.  In so many ways MRS. DALLOWAY could be a memoir, mirroring Woolf's personality, artistry, and her advanced inspection of same sex love, the decay of aristocracy, the thin line between memory and imagination, fantasy and reality, the loneliness of genius, desire and conscious commitment to the standards of the day.  All of these issues she compresses into one June day in London - a day for the preparation of one of the parties for which Clarissa Dalloway is so well known.  \\"Successfully\\" married to a politician, the mother of a 17 year old beautiful daughter, she allows her thoughts to ramble about love that could have been, mental illness that leads to suicide, brackish and acerbic words from the Lords and Ladies invited, and a lover from the past who rises like a smoldering injured phoenix, making Clarissa reevaluate internally all that has been her life.<br />There is story here, there are well drawn characters here, and the book can be read solely on the virtues of a novel construct.  But if you want to really experience the magnificent wordsmith gifts of Virginia Woolf, then savour each page for the grace of the English language stretched into a seamless, protracted poem.  This is book to read slowly, catching all the references to history as it blanketed England after WWI, when in 1923 the Bloomsbury group served as a quiet cocoon of intelligensia, when writing was an art in itself, more concerned with thoughts and ideas as words might mold them than in best selling, rapidly written and published transient pops in the vast sky of literature.<br />Then Martha's answer to George's/Albee's question will make so very much sense.iet cocoon of intelligensia, when writing was an art in itself, more concerned with thoughts and ideas as words might mold them than in best selling, rapidly written and published transient pops in the vast sky of literature.  <br />Then Martha's answer to George's/Albee's question will make so very much sense.	2003-04-25
1152054:US	52496677	R25KDCUAIF5N7E	0393051676	13463644	What I Saw: Reports from Berlin, 1920-1933	Books	5	42	46	N	Y	What Journalism Can Be	Joseph Roth was a master journalist from Vienna who moved to Berlin on 1920 to investigate and report first hand on what he feared was a doomed megapolis.  WHAT I SAW: REPORTS FROM BERLIN 1920-1933 is one of the most refreshingly original books to grace our shores in years.  Roth was concerned with newspaper writing but he was also a poet of rare distinction and courage.  These 'feuilletons' or short essays on observations reveal insights into the Berlin from the fall of the Weimar Republic to the rise of the Nazi reqime.  Calling these small essays 'readers for walkers' Roth wanders the streets and mass transportation of Berlin, looking into the backyards of common day people, the Jewish neighborhoods/ghettoes, the photographs in the police files of the unknown dead victims found in the gutters, the high wired clubs of decadent diversions, buildings of history and of future, and all the while he maintains a beautiful descriptive, poetic style while keeping his eyes wide open to the pathetic prophecy of the doom of the great city of Berlin.  His words: 'The story of how absolutism and corruption, tyranny and speculation, the knout and shabby real estate dealings, cruelty and greed, the pretense of tough law-abidingness and blathering wheeler-dealer stood shoulder to shoulder, digging foundations and building streets, and of how ignorance, poor taste, disaster, bad intentions and the occassional very happy accident have come together in building the capital of the German Reich...'  are balanced on other pages of describing the beauty of the sky above Berlin, the pathos of the lonely and neglected poor people on the trains, and the wonder of the vaguely temporary air that surrounded the bulding of a city after The Great War.<br />Roth is able to tell us so much history in so brief a space. Here are the beginnings of Isherwood's BERLIN STORIES, the birth of the style of the recent works of WG Sebald's books, and even the writings of Edmund White in THE FLANEUR.  Would that our newspapers could find the space AND the talent to place such insightful observations in our poetically vapid journalism of today!  This is a rare book of beautiful writing and we are indebted to translator Michael Hofmann not only for his lyrical English style, but also for his own insightful essay about the man who wrote these 'feuilletons'.  A sad parting note is that Joseph Roth died in Paris in 1939 from the effects of his alcoholism.  Such was the influence of Berlin on many artists of thetime.that our newspapers could find the space AND the talent to place such insightful observations in our poetically vapid journalism of today!  This is a rare book of beautiful writing and we are indebted to translator Michael Hofmann not only for his lyrical English style, but also for his own insightful essay about the man who wrote these 'feuilletons'.  A sad parting note is that Joseph Roth died in Paris in 1939 from the effects of his alcoholism.  Such was the influence of Berlin on many artists of thetime.	2003-04-20
1156185:US	52496677	RGTYHRQ8317WP	0743219651	845477731	Waiting for Snow in Havana: Confessions of a Cuban Boy	Books	5	36	43	N	Y	A New Purveyor of Magical Realism	Carlos Eire arrives on the literary scene with a tasty eye for the magical, a sense of humor that is ingratiating, an ability to capture the tenor of Cuba at the time of the Revolution, an adult's sense of tragedy as perceived through the trusting eyes of a child.  WAITING FOR SNOW IN HAVANA: Confessions of a Cuban Boy is wonderful rollercoaster of a ride that recalls the unimaginable beauty of Cuba before the fall, walks through the tangled streets of a city destroyed by a dictator, and finally looks back (and down) at the Cuba of today from a vantage in the United States.<br />Eire knows children well, so well that at times his writing is so convincingly that of a wide-eyed child that the reader needs to back up a few pages to realize this is a memoir and not a novel.  In the end he has  more thoroughly than any other writer given us an insider's view of Cuba in the 50's and 60's that it is possible for us to understand the mountainous changes that Fidel Castro effected on this lovely island.  To say more would be to spoil an E-ride in Disneyland.  Read this book for the joy of a child's perception, the insight of an expatriate's knowledge, and the philosophy of a man of heart and hope.  A fine Debut Novel.	2003-04-16
1170858:US	52496677	R19KXHC2NXYYMU	0758203489	368420266	Leave Myself Behind (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	A Dazzlingly Brilliant Debut Novel	Bart Yates, where have you been hiding?  According to the book jacket blurb he is a teacher and a freelance musician.  But somewhere along the line Bart Yates learned how to write extraordinarily well.  His first novel LEAVE MYSELF BEHIND is not only well written, it is at once hilariously comic, disturbingly sad, achingly profound, and just plain good reading!<br />Noah and his mother Virgina York (a poet) move to New Hampshire from the big city of Chicago when Noah's father has suddenly died.  Once transplanted to New England, Noah slowly comes to grips with his sexuality, Virginia as slowly becomes crazed with the house they've purchased since it is the former dwelling of another woman poet and contains mysterious Mason Jars within the walls that unravel an entirely different (and equally entertaining) novel!, and the small town of Oakland, New Hampshire peels away secrets of gay bashing, incest, rape, alcoholism, insanity and any number of bizarre twists.<br />The solid anchor of this book is the language and tone and insight of the narrator - Noah York - who at seventeen has a rich imagination, a wry outlook, a way of thinking and expressing himself that makes all the madness of the dysfunctional world fall into place for us, the readers.  This could be called a gay novel, but though it very sensitively and sensuously relates the blossoming of love between Noah and the boy next door J.D. and then incorporates the reality check of being openly gay in a small town highschool, it is much more than that. This novel has many rich and surprising stories and comments on our world today and presents all of this information not in an offensively preachy manner, but in a way that reveals exactly how vulnerable and needy we ALL are when it comes to loving and being loved, being without love and groping for it.<br />Some novels just get to you and this is one.  Bart Yates, please write another  and another.  You have so much innate talent and gift for story telling that it is simply mind boggling!  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED  reading for just about everyone who loves good books.t it is simply mind boggling!  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED  reading for just about everyone who loves good books.	2003-04-04
1173621:US	52496677	R1J80S6FWGMUEY	0374248583	274852501	Regarding the Pain of Others	Books	5	14	20	N	Y	Timely, wise and informed	When Susan Sontag prepared and wrote her newest book REGARDING THE PAIN OF OTHERS, she probably did not know that at the time of its release to the public the world would once again be at war.  Sontag remains one of our more inportant American philosphers and commentators and this book addresses the representaton of pain, war, agony, and injustice as captured by painters from Velasquez, Goya, Callot and others to photographers Matthew Brady, Capa, Bourke-White et al.  While she sees it as the responsibility for these people to capture the horrors of war in order that 'we' as observors will be informed and thus never allow such things to continue, she also now addresses how important it is for us to not have these images edited from public consumption - a very current feature that we are now seeing (or not seeing) in the TV and newspaper versions of the Iraqi war.  Sontag gives evidence that some of the more sensational photographs from the Civil War and the Vietnam War were actually staged; corpses were added or altered or assasinations were set for the photojournalist  much as the paintings of the 19th century were modified to gain impact.  She shows that the horrors if the Nazi concentration camps were best captured by the untrained camera rather than the images made famous by Bourke-White et al, manipulating the light and position of vantage to play on the message instead of simply reporting it.<br />She stimulates our anger when she reports such incidences  during the Gulf War as \\"American television viewers weren't allowed to see footage acquired by NBC (which the network then declined to run) of what superiority could wreak: the fate of thousands of Iraqi conscripts who, having fled Kuwait City at the end of the war, on February 27, were carpet bombed with explosives, napalm, radioactive DU (depleted uranium)rounds, and cluster bombs as they headed north, in convoys  and on foot, on the road to Basra, Iraq - a slaughter notoriously described by one American oficer as a 'turkey shoot'\\".  She shows that atrocities in foreign places are 'more acceptable' to view than cloistered photographic documents of our own history of the abuse of slaves, the poor, AIDS victims here in this country.  We can construct Museums for the reminders of the German atrocities of genocide, crematoriums, starvation etc, but we do not have a single Museum to remind us of the American abuse of African American slaves (lynchings, beatings, prisons etc).<br />There are many quotes to highlight; \\"It is because a war, any war, doesn't seem as if it can be stopped that people become less responsive to the horrors.  Compassion is an unstable emotion.  It needs to be translated into action, or it withers.  The question is what to do with the feelings that have been aroused, the knowledge that has been communicated.  If one feels that there is nothing 'we' can do - but who is that 'we'? - and nothing 'they' can do either - and who are 'they'? - then one starts to get bored, cynical, apathetic.\\"<br />Sontag urges us to be more in tune, more involved, more sensitive to the visual images that report the pain of others. \\"We can't imagine how dreadful, how terrifying war is; and how normal it becomes.  Can't understand, can't imagine.  That's what every soldier, and every journalist and aid worker and independent observer who has put in time under fire, and had the luck to elude the death that struck down others nearby, stubbornly feels.  And they are right.\\"  This is the powerful last paragraph in this intensely moving book.  It is a shame that some of the photographs and paintings to which she refers could not have been inserted in this book, but even without the visuals, this is a book that reveals myriad secrets and truths.  Highly recommended reading.icer as a 'turkey shoot'\\".  She shows that atrocities in foreign places are 'more acceptable' to view than cloistered photographic documents of our own history of the abuse of slaves, the poor, AIDS victims here in this country.  We can construct Museums for the reminders of the German atrocities of genocide, crematoriums, starvation etc, but we do not have a single Museum to remind us of the American abuse of African American slaves (lynchings, beatings, prisons etc).<br />There are many quotes to highlight; \\"It is because a war, any war, doesn't seem as if it can be stopped that people become less responsive to the horrors.  Compassion is an unstable emotion.  It needs to be translated into action, or it withers.  The question is what to do with the feelings that have been aroused, the knowledge that has been communicated.  If one feels that there is nothing 'we' can do - but who is that 'we'? - and nothing 'they' can do either - and who are 'they'? - then one starts to get bored, cynical, apathetic.\\"<br />Sontag urges us to be more in tune, more involved, more sensitive to the visual images that report the pain of others. \\"We can't imagine how dreadful, how terrifying war is; and how normal it becomes.  Can't understand, can't imagine.  That's what every soldier, and every journalist and aid worker and independent observer who has put in time under fire, and had the luck to elude the death that struck down others nearby, stubbornly feels.  And they are right.\\"  This is the powerful last paragraph in this intensely moving book.  It is a shame that some of the photographs and paintings to which she refers could not have been inserted in this book, but even without the visuals, this is a book that reveals myriad secrets and truths.  Highly recommended reading.	2003-04-02
1176309:US	52496677	R16MJ83WNFJ22R	0399233172	250903208	Sacred Places	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	A Book for Our Times	One of the joys of having Amazon friends is that they lead you to books that otherwise would not come into your sightline. I am indebted to Alejandra Vernon for introducing this little treasure to me.  Although this is a book \\"written for grades 4 - 6\\" it is much more than a children's book of beautiful pictures and brief introductory statements to accompany them.  This book gently opens the common pathways between the great religions of the world, showing, subtly, that Islam, Cristianity, Judaism, Hinduism, and Buddhism are all similar means to an end.  That said, the author and illustrator show the wondrous differences that enhance our appreciation and respect for religions many of us don't fully understand.  This book, beautifully designed and written, should be in the front of every bookstore across the world just now.  Were it required reading for all people, I think we would not be at war........	2003-03-30
1178955:US	52496677	RJA3O7Z29E85Z	0060928050	947209364	Heaven's Coast: A Memoir	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Finding Life from the Portal of Death	Mark Doty is one of the most sensitive poets and writers we have.  His books of poetry continue to garner awards, his memoirs are uniquely important literary pursuits, his meditations on art are becoming the Gold Standard.  HEAVEN'S COAST is on one level a penetrating diary of the diagnosis and progression of AIDS as it affects Doty and his lover of 12 years Wally Roberts.  Yes, there have been many books written about the devastation of this heinous plague, but few writers have found the path to beauty that such a universe-clanging calamity can bring.  No Pollyanna treatise here: Doty couldn't write that way under any outside direction.  He writes from his heart, from his experience of having loved so deeply that even death does not separate him from the bliss he has know with Wally.<br />From this elegantly written memoir we learn much about why Doty is able to see the world and its contents in such a special way.  He pauses to muse and observe where others would flee in terror.  He is able to relate the gradual physical decline of Wally as AIDS slowly but surely consumes his body.  He shares his feelings about the medical profession, about friends and family response, about the moments he identifies to incorporate into his soul for food after he is alone.<br />HEAVEN'S COAST is a factual representation of the course of a still unreal viral disease and its impact on the victim and those around the vitim.  But because this memoir is written by the brillant poet Doty is, this book is more about life, learning the meaning of life by embracing death, and ultimately connecting with the cosmos.  \\"Ongoingness, vanishing: the world's twin poles.  Each thing disappears; everything goes on.  The parts pour into nowhere, the whole continues.  And to be nowhere is to be in heaven, isn't it, in the boundless, loose from the limits of time and space?  Isn't the whole world heaven's coast?\\"<br />This is a book to read and re-read, to share with those whom you love, to offer to those who find no meaning to existence. In short, this book is a miracle.those who find no meaning to existence. In short, this book is a miracle.	2003-03-28
1179440:US	52496677	R3LQ08GC7AOCL3	0399149368	309604858	Prince of Lost Places	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Spectrum of Love	Kathy Hepinstall continues to introduce refreshingly new tales that are beginning to delineate a voice that is clearly unique.  As in her previous two novels PRINCE OF LOST PLACES takes us on a whirlwind journey that transplants a mother and son from a fearful society to a Plato's Cave.  The story is well outlined in both the editorial and reviewers' comments on this site.  Suffice it to say that Hepinstall is maturing in her language, her clarity of character delineation, and in her particular gift for creating atmosphere.  She is a solid writer and will hopefully have another novel on the shelves soon.  Follow this writer - she is terific!	2003-03-27
1183381:US	52496677	R2LZK17TQMPOY7	1555952143	594833725	Edwin Dickinson: Dreams and Realities	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	A Major Catalogue Raisonne	EDWIN DICKINSON: DREAMS AND REALITIES is a major work.  Again we have a catalogue for an exhibition (that started at the Albright-Knox Gallery in 2002 and is still traveling) that is so well written and illustrated that it becomes a standard reference for any library of art.<br />Dickinson is not a name that carries instant recognition outside the circles of art historians and artists.  He spanned (1891 - 1978) a period in American art history which jumped from academic Realism to Cubism and Abstract Expressionism and through all of these changes he retained his own style, pausing here and there to prove that he was thoroughly informed by all the new schools in the arts while continuing his mission as a representational artist.  His studios were in New York and in Cape Cod and it is here that he observed and painted the world as he saw it.  Some of his canvases took years to complete: other canvases and works on paper were dashed off in a most facile fashion.<br />This major book celebrates an artist who probably will always be an enigma in the history of American art and brings his entire oeuvre to our attention.  We are shown self portraits painted throughout his career, always a fascinating and valid way to track and artist's progress.  The color reproductions are a bit bland and tend to flatten the images. Oddly the black and white drawings suffer the same fate, becoming shades of gray rather than strong lines.  The various contributors to the book add a significant dimension of awe for this under-appreciated artist.  It is up to the viewer of this book to judge how visually important rather than hisortically significant was Edwin Dickinson.	2003-03-24
1185618:US	52496677	RDE4I5JQVN6QE	0295974184	191806418	Natural Light and the Italian Piazza: Siena, As a Case Study	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Light as Art as it Illuminates Architecture	In this modest sized book author Sandra Davis Lakeman has gathered her extensive research and fifteen years of investigation into 'Light as the provider of reality', using her multifaceted gifts in the roles of Architect, Educator and Photographer to produce one of the most creative art books in this realm of Architecture as Art.  Focusing on Siena, Italy and with special emphasis on the Piazza del Campo which serves as the &quot;living room&quot; for the city, Lakeman explains how an awareness of light intensifies our perception, allowing us to think and design with Light.  Her theories of how the qualities of light through the hours of the day add the finishing touches to the architecture of the city are demonstrated both by schematic drawings and through the utterly lush color photographs of this romantic Tuscan city.  The book is not only the culmination of her research into Light; it also served as a catlogue for an exhibition of these photographs in 1992.  Her thoughts, while well schooled, are even more impressive because of her ability to communicate in written word in a way that keeps her scholarly thesis engaging and even romantic.  'Light paints our world in beautiful shades of color, tones of chiaroscuro and patina enriched by life and time.'  This book is a must for lovers of Italian architecture, artists who long for a fresh perspective on the infulence of light in art, for architects who wish to add a significant theory to their knowledge, and for lovers of fine color photography.  This is a radiant book.  Highly Recommended.	2003-03-21
1188091:US	52496677	RSP2N5KE972KD	1591297583	577736145	Confusing Words	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Hermeneuntics as Novel	CONFUSING WORDS is a bizarre work, and that is not to use the 'confusing word' &quot;bizarre&quot; in a perjorative way. Author Peter Kipling Soteres has written a story ostensibly about an illegal immigrant American in Athens, Greece who is a poet at heart, and a writer for a sadistic woman publisher at pocketbook, whose world of seeking meaning to life is abruptly skewed by his involvement as a witness (='martyr' in Greek) to a motorcycle accident which incidentally involves him in the machinations of the Greek underground and the Greek Police. Whew!  And there is even more in this slender 209 page first novel. The title refers to many levels of meaning contained in the book, but it is also the name of a computer virus that plays a major role in the evolution of this story.  If you want a fine dollop of modern day Greece delivered with a healthy and finely tuned backup of Greek history and mythology, this is definitely the book for you.  Soteres has a rich vocabulary which he uses with sensitivity, dark humor, and convincing communication.  Some of his rich cast of characters could be better delineated, some of the story begs the reader's indulgence for lack of continuity, but the journey is very well worth it.  Finishing CONFUSING WORDS is like the end of a symphony whose last Mahlerian moment demands attention.  And having grown to understand Soteres' style, I think I'll immediately read this very fine little book again. Recommended.	2003-03-19
1193595:US	52496677	R399C1KOCQ7UU0	1931297908	434953103	Journeys of a Tortured Soul	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Tough Tale Tackled with Tenderness and Temerity	Caesar Brunswick is a writer to watch.  In JOURNEYS OF A TORTURED SOUL he has created an auspicious debut and appears to be a new voice that is probing, wise, and eloquent.  This book is a novel, though it is so successfully written that it sounds like a memoir.  Arthur Wilson is the product of a dysfunctional family who gets his girlfriend pregnant at the age of eleven, drops out of highschool at age 15 to escape to Atlanta and a life of surviving by street hustling only to be incarcerated, find his way back into the world where he succeeds in finishing school and proceed on to college and graduate school, finding an unexpected profound relationship with a man, a term of infatuation with a gifted diva, an enforced sexual laison with a woman from a family of means, ending up with a graduate degree and a glimpse of what he has always yearned for - a sense of belonging to his family.  And if that isn't the journey of a tortured soul, then the phrase begs explanation! This book is so tightly written that it demands being read in one evening.  Arthur Wilson, for all the seemingly  incredible events in his life, remains a character about whom we care vey much.<br />Few novels serve as reference volumes as does this one.  Within the short 200 pages, Brunswick explores race, prejudice, parental abuse, prostitution in the gay world by underaged boys, fully committed gay relationships, bisexuality, heterosexuality accompanied by fatherhood, and the drive to rise above humble beginnings despite the \\"slings and arrows\\" route underappreciated in today's society.  He does this ably, without resorting to maudlin victimization.  Part of the beauty of Brunswick's main character is that he relates his story in eloquent language - something authors too often feel requires the associated lingo of the times, a gimmick that can create a barrier between the reader and the story.<br />More books are promised by Brunswick, books that will further flesh out some of the interesting prototypes introduced in this book.  Good news for all of us. Hopefully the editor's eye will be more keen for those books.  But for all the small flaws in this first venture, this book stands solidly with the works of new voices in American literature.  Recommended.pes introduced in this book.  Good news for all of us. Hopefully the editor's eye will be more keen for those books.  But for all the small flaws in this first venture, this book stands solidly with the works of new voices in American literature.  Recommended.	2003-03-14
1196531:US	52496677	R8K036LDD7DT3	037541505X	98602710	Abandon: A Romance	Books	3	8	11	N	Y	Mind and Heart: Where they meet and where they don't	ABANDON is a book difficult to classify. It is nearly a textbook about Rumi poetry and Sufism - one of the myriad Eastern forms of 'religion' to which we have little access.  On the level of introducing a scholarly treatise about Islam, Muslims, and the selflessness of those religions as compared to the Western point of reference of the monotheistic, 'God as the Ruler of Creation' Christian religion author Pico Iyer succeeds valiantly.  His writing is effervescent, wholly with the incensed atmosphere of the beauty of the Eastern religious mind.  His knowledge of Rumi poetry is obviously rich and he shares that knowledge that makes this book an invaluable guide to understanding the differences that maintain a wall against understanding between the Middle Eastern countries and the United States - and as such the book could not be more timely!<br />Where this reader finds problems is the attempt to create a Romance novel that illustrates the mysticism of Sufism.  Iyer writes very well, but his creation of Camilla Jensen, the love interest of the narrator John McMillan as he writes his dissertation on Rumi, is hardly successful.  The character is a whining, dissociative, frightened creature who rarely assumes a countenance that would be able to attract ANYONE - inside or outside the novel.  She is a selfconscious, chronically late, afraid little bore.  Iyer paints some lovely encounters that have all the atmostphere to accompany a love song, but it is difficult to understand why he becomes so obsessed with her.<br />But despite the shortcomings as a romance novel, ABANDON is a book that deserves a wide audience for its introduction to Eastern religion in a format accessible to the American audience.  And that is far more important than yet another mindless love story.........	2003-03-12
1201859:US	52496677	R3HHYCPHBLZL6R	0375504842	549875058	On the Natural History of Destruction	Books	5	23	26	N	Y	A Posthumous Encore	WG Sebald died far too soon.  In the past few years this penultimately creative German writer graced us with four novels, or memoirs (\\"The Emigrants\\", \\"The Rings of Saturn\\", \\"Vertigo\\", and \\"Austerlitz\\") that created a hunger for more great writing from this gifted man.  Shortly after his untimely death \\"After Nature\\" was published and proved to us that the novelist so many of us regarded as a 'poet' was indeed a gifted Poet.  Now, with the relase of this collection of essays yet another aspect of WG Sebald is revealed - a critical philosopher unafraid to shed light on aspects of his German descent like few other writers have.<br />In \\"Air War and Literature\\" Sebald describes what the Allied Forces invasion and devastation of a country so reviled for its Nazi activities was like to the many Germans who remained after Hitler's time was over.  It is not easy reading, this, understanding that the goal of the non-German world was to annhilate the land which had bred such atrocities.  Yet Sebald does not plead the case for the German cities and people who were burned to the ground by Allied bombings.  He instead turns inward to scold the Germans for not writing about their own 'victimization', the lack of writers to speak out about accepting guilt yet leading a path out of the heinous past to a future of repair and hope.  He examines the effect of destruction on the great minds of the day, trying to find an answer why creative people were so intimidated by the terror of silence. To read about WW II from the German vantage is an experience few other authors have encouraged so tersly.<br />In the remaining three essays, Sebald the critic in turn lambasts the shallow glory-seeking work of Alfred Andersch (who considered himself a greater writer the Thomas Mann!) and the sensitive, soul-searching works of Jean Amery, both writers who have addressed the post-War Gaerman psyche.  And finally he critiques both the paintings and the late writings of Peter Weiss in one of the most tender homages imaginable.<br />Sebald was a brilliant writer and a sharp, demanding critic, and time will place him in a position too early to visualize, so recent is the sadness of his passing.  This is book that should be read by all those who love his novels, but also by those who want to further explore the incredible madness that once upon a time grew in Germany.tender homages imaginable.<br />Sebald was a brilliant writer and a sharp, demanding critic, and time will place him in a position too early to visualize, so recent is the sadness of his passing.  This is book that should be read by all those who love his novels, but also by those who want to further explore the incredible madness that once upon a time grew in Germany.	2003-03-08
1205153:US	52496677	R13Z6IMPBZST78	0789300222	169974172	Whitman's Men: Walt Whitman's Calamus Poems Celebrated by Contemporary Photographers	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The Essence of Walt Whitman	As we pass through another period in our history where unspeakable wars seem imminent, the great poets of the present and past draw focus, attempting to sound the alarm that might just possibly awaken us.  And always chief among those poets who felt the folly and shame of war is Walt Whitman.  So it is no wonder that collections of his poems re-surface and hopefully nourish a generation of young people who face the possibility of following the lifted sword.<br />Whitman's voice, in this collection from the Calamus poems, is turned toward a more personal declaration of intimacy between men rather than fist-shaking against war.  In a beautifully designed and curated format, David Groff has selected poems that are enhanced by Richard Berman's selection of photographic images to allow the reader to listen more carefully to the thoughts of the master.  Here we are not ask to weep as with &quot;The Wound Dresser&quot;: here we celebrate the comradery and love between the living.  The sensitive photographs are the contributions of John Dugdale, Mark Beard, Robert Flynt, Bill Jacobson, Russell Maynor, Frank Yamrus and Steve Morrison, and while none of these images is &quot;illustrational&quot;, each embellishes the poetry in a way one believes Walt Whitman would mightily approve.  A beautiful volume this.	2003-03-05
1209442:US	52496677	R1COKZWIL7HUGZ	0786711612	971563185	In the Absence of Men: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Daring, Brilliant, Utterly Absorbing Major Novel	And if there were more than Five Stars to rate this book, then the maximun number would be assigned!  Phillippe Besson's first novel, IN THE ABSENCE OF MEN written in 2001 and published in France before the English translation became available to us this year, is one of those wonders of a book that plead the question &quot;Why hasn't this concept been thought of before?&quot;  For all its brevity(a mere 166 pages) and enlightened style of writing, the story is what comes first: a wholly credible blend of fact and fiction. Yes, E.L.Doctorow and others have placed historic characters in a fictitious novel, but none to the enlightened  extent of Besson's use of Marcel Proust as a focal figure.<br />This novel is one of the more poignant coming of age stories to be written in the past few decades.  The title IN THE ABSENCE OF MEN was carefully selected to address many the issues that are cloaked in the intimate story.  Vincent is 16 years old, in 1916 he is as old as the century, and is a brilliant young aristocrat who has escaped involvement in the Great War. In 1916 all of the men in Paris are in the War leaving the city poplated by women and those men who either by reason of health, old age or the  luxury of wealth remain behind; Paris is in the absence of men. In one week's time Vincent discovers platonic love in the person of Marcel Proust - here portrayed as the wise, articulate writer we know from his magnum opus &quot;Remembrances of Things Past&quot; or &quot;In Search of Lost Time&quot; depending on whose translation you read, and as the longing would-be lover of men. Knowing the boundaries and responsibilities of amorous affliations between 16 year olds and middle aged men, Marcel serves to introduce Vincent to the poetic, Apollonian aspects of love between men. At the same time Vincent becomes physically aware of the sensual Arthur, the 21 year old son of Vincent's governess and separated until now by class distinction that only the presence of War can temporarily mutate.  Arthur, who represents the Dionysian aspect of love, spends a passionate, physical week in Vincent's arms and heart and is then off to war.  The remainder of the book takes the form of leters written between the lovesick Vincent and his mentor Marcel (who is away on holiday) and his lover Arthur who is on the battleground.  In this brief summer all of the smoldering private mental wars through which all youth must endure in the rites of passage become contrastingly opera and chamber music.  The novel ends in a surpise confession that brings all of the events of Vincent's epiphany summer to a life changing conclusion.<br />Besson's writing style excludes quotation marks and frequent paragraphs and reads more like stream of consciousness and thus takes some visual adjustment before getting involved in the story.  That process takes no more than a page and ultimately creates a feeling of glimpsing a private diary between Vincent and Proust and Vincent and Arthur. The other message beneath the story addresses the intimacy and bonding of soldiers isolated from the world, fighting a war while finding comfort and sensual release only among themselves, secretly: Arthur, physically separated from his new love Vincent, turns to a fellow soldier to nurture that gaping need for tenderness and his letters to Vincent confess this love in an incredibly poignant way.<br />This is a very fine novel and introduces an author of exceptional gifts of imagination and skill in writing.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDEDrarily mutate.  Arthur, who represents the Dionysian aspect of love, spends a passionate, physical week in Vincent's arms and heart and is then off to war.  The remainder of the book takes the form of leters written between the lovesick Vincent and his mentor Marcel (who is away on holiday) and his lover Arthur who is on the battleground.  In this brief summer all of the smoldering private mental wars through which all youth must endure in the rites of passage become contrastingly opera and chamber music.  The novel ends in a surpise confession that brings all of the events of Vincent's epiphany summer to a life changing conclusion.  <br />Besson's writing style excludes quotation marks and frequent paragraphs and reads more like stream of consciousness and thus takes some visual adjustment before getting involved in the story.  That process takes no more than a page and ultimately creates a feeling of glimpsing a private diary between Vincent and Proust and Vincent and Arthur. The other message beneath the story addresses the intimacy and bonding of soldiers isolated from the world, fighting a war while finding comfort and sensual release only among themselves, secretly: Arthur, physically separated from his new love Vincent, turns to a fellow soldier to nurture that gaping need for tenderness and his letters to Vincent confess this love in an incredibly poignant way.  <br />This is a very fine novel and introduces an author of exceptional gifts of imagination and skill in writing.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED	2003-03-02
1210473:US	52496677	R1GQEUIRHG7RBH	0312202318	601611030	A Home at the End of the World: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	The Debut of a Virtuoso!	Michael Cunningham seems assured a top position in the Important Writers of this Century.  Having won the Pulitzer Prize for THE HOURS and spawning one of the most respected films of the year makes us wonder if this level of literary magnificence can be sustained.  And that is a fine reason for returning to his earlier works to see if the seeds of greatness were well planted.  The answer: unquestionably!  A HOME AT THE END OF THE WORLD may have taken Cunningham years to write, but what a polished novel those years of patience and care  produced!<br />Cunningham is first a writer of astounding gifts: he can spin brief phrases describing a fraction of a moment of light or scent or air or internal feeling  that are so beautifully crafted they blink like diamonds on field of story.  His vocabulary is eloquent, his ability to paint characters is rich and uniquely his own, and his craft of storytelling is mesmerizing.<br />\\"A HOME......\\" deals with the yearning for finding a sense of family and a sense of love and meaning in the world we have inherited and are propagating.  His style?: each chapter is named for one of his characters and the story progresses from the different views of these interlocking people.  Very simply stated, Cunningham creates Bobby (the lone survivor of a family destroyed by the first born son's death), Jonathan (likewise a survivor of a family who finds a tolerable existence after a stillborn death of a potential sibling), and Clare (an escape artist from a family of means from whom she flees into a world of drugs and sex and loss of connectedness) - and from this melange we study three families and learn just what the term 'family' denotes.  Bobby is internally complex and bonds with Jonathan in highschool in what for Jonathan is  a homosexual craving and for Bobby is a deparate need for love at any cost.  After highschool in Cleveland, Jonathan moves to New York for college and for embracing the lifestyle he cannot find in Cleveland, and pairs with Clare in a sexless coupling that is glued together by mutual need and love. Bobby stays in Cleveland, lost, but bonds with Jonathan's parents (Alice and Ned), becoming a cook and restauranteur. When the effects of Ned's asthma require moving to Arizona, Bobby moves to New York, moving in with Jonathan and Clare, and the final family is born.  The intricacies of this menage a trois relationship open the doors for each of the characters to discover their real needs.  To tell more would not be fair to the new reader.  Suffice it to say that the story Cunningham creates touches nerves and creates chords of identification that make this novel compelling and fascinating to the final page. \\"...we owe the dead even less than we owe the living, that our only chance of happiness - a small enough chance - lay in welcoming change.\\"  Food for thought and certainly a seed of style that makes THE HOURS so magnificent a book.  Richly recommended.with Clare in a sexless coupling that is glued together by mutual need and love. Bobby stays in Cleveland, lost, but bonds with Jonathan's parents (Alice and Ned), becoming a cook and restauranteur. When the effects of Ned's asthma require moving to Arizona, Bobby moves to New York, moving in with Jonathan and Clare, and the final family is born.  The intricacies of this menage a trois relationship open the doors for each of the characters to discover their real needs.  To tell more would not be fair to the new reader.  Suffice it to say that the story Cunningham creates touches nerves and creates chords of identification that make this novel compelling and fascinating to the final page. \\"...we owe the dead even less than we owe the living, that our only chance of happiness - a small enough chance - lay in welcoming change.\\"  Food for thought and certainly a seed of style that makes THE HOURS so magnificent a book.  Richly recommended.	2003-03-01
1213599:US	52496677	R2D65HV74SCONP	0691113289	215120305	Sargent and Italy	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Appeals to the Eye and to the Intellect	SARGENT IN ITALY does what many catalogues set out to accomplish but few achieve - document a magnificent exhibition while creating an art history book of great substance.  The catalogue for the travelling exhibition SARGENT AND ITALY mirrors the elegance of the painter's touch, the intense infatuation and observation of the painter's favorite places (Venice in particular), and the intellectual atmosphere in which all of these works were created.  Everyone knows of John Singer Sargent's finesse with the portraits of the wealthy and with figure painting in the studio and out on location, but few have the knowledge that Sargent found just as much life and senusality in the landscape as he did in the beautifully gowned patronesses of his career.  Author Robertson is careful to include the treasurable quotes from the works of Henry James and other writers which flank many of the paintings in the exhibition and in the book.  James and Sargent were close friends and colleagues, and that quality of shared observation helps make this show and this book the successes they are.  The only minor flaw in the book is the quality of color reproduction which tends toward the muddy, dim  side - hardly what this painter of light was all about. But the paintngs here are in other volumes where they are not as graced with the written word as they are here.  A fine exhibition and a very fine catalogue/book.	2003-02-26
1214271:US	52496677	R1E6R5T4DSYZ2G	1588340554	901797046	Picturing Men: A Century of Male Relationships in Everyday American Photography	Books	5	44	46	N	Y	A Major Contribution to the Field of Gender Studies	Writing in an erudite, scholarly manner Professor John Ibson has managed to present a substantive survey of the evolution of male gender perception in his PICTURING MEN: A Century of Male Relationships in Everyday American Photography.  And for all its heavily researched scholarship, Ibson also has created a very tender elegy about the history of male intimacy, tracing the genuinely warm comraderie as depicted in extant studio and personal photographs rom the mid 19th Century to the gradual emergence of homophobia after World War II.<br />This is a book that probably is best read twice: the first 'read' should be a slow thumbing through the pages of wonderfully tender and humorous photographs of men in pairs, in poses, in groups of pageant/pantomime, in dorm rooms, barracks, and in nature. The second read should be on of thoughtful attention paid to the written word, an experience which is never cloyingly sentimental, yet ever mindful of the sad fact that our society has created a ban on  men expressing tenderness to other men.  He wisely shows the tendency to use rough-housing and elaborate greeting techniques to convey the feelings now considered not only 'inappropriate' but worse - as in the 'Don't ask, don't tell' stance of the military.  In the most sensitive chapter of this gentile book Ibson studies life in the military from the Civil War through World War II, pointing out both sides of the argument that war and its accompanying terror encourages men to bond, at least psychologically if not sexually. And in keeping with the tenor of the title \\"in Everyday American Photography\\" he references the manner in which Life Magazine - that pre-internet, pre-mass media resource which shouldered the burden of documenting for Americans how things were -  shows the intensity of male relationships during WW II and its waning in the 1950s.<br />Ibson is careful to remind us that his picture research comes from his own collection of photographs gathered from swap meets, antique stores, and auctions and that his own feelings are supported by such disparate sources as songs  (especially \\"My Buddy\\"), memoirs of soldiers, studies of wars by such men as Stephen Ambrose, John Horne Burns, Norman Mailer, and Allen Drury, and movies.  In other words, this book stands solidly as a statement about the sad loss of man's ability to accept intimacy, especially when it comes to his fellowman.  A beautifully written, highly readable, very valuable book and treatise.que stores, and auctions and that his own feelings are supported by such disparate sources as songs  (especially \\"My Buddy\\"), memoirs of soldiers, studies of wars by such men as Stephen Ambrose, John Horne Burns, Norman Mailer, and Allen Drury, and movies.  In other words, this book stands solidly as a statement about the sad loss of man's ability to accept intimacy, especially when it comes to his fellowman.  A beautifully written, highly readable, very valuable book and treatise.	2003-02-26
1216639:US	52496677	R2Y9YS9SI4T6R5	0312283709	994951933	Running with Scissors: A Memoir	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Fact stranger than Fiction stranger than Fact	Finishing reading the enormously entertaining RUNNING WITH SCISSORS, a 'memoir by Augusten Buroughs' poses the question \\"Can memoirs ever be fact when they are filtered by retrospection and memory distortion?\\"  The key word here is 'memoirs', and so we can accept this as not an autobiorgraphy but a series of memories written down in a cathartic swoop.  It really doesn't make any difference, this attempt to analyze the veracity of Burroughs' book.  It remains a very fine foray into exploring where our youth find themselves in the world as it presents itself today.<br />RUNNING WITH SCISSORS is filled with a cast of inimitable characters, and at times the characters become caricatures, so weird and bizarre their behavior.  But at the core of this explosion of madness is the young narrator who hilariously but tenderly discusses his acceptance of being gay, his adoration of the cosmetic empires, his need to perform makeovers on his closer associates, and his steadfastness in living a life bordering the incredible and surviviing it all.  Augusten Burroughs is a likeable kid and manages to influence all those who surround him: his thirtysomething lover (when he is but fourteen), a looney psychiatrist to whom his wholly mad mother deserts him, the Finch House wherein dwells the family of the new father/shrink in the midst of squalor and filth, his  'adopted' sisters, etc.  The joy in reading this wild ride of a story is the calm demeanor in which it is told.<br />I have no idea how much of this memior is true, but I don't really care.  There is so much of the way we live - in global alienation - spun into searing details that, like all good comedy, hits us at the end with a kick in the gut.  Recommended for the adventurous reader!	2003-02-24
1222186:US	52496677	R25ZJDFZD2UD79	0375422412	120680919	Three Junes	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	A Walk Among People Whose Histories Whisper, Quietly	THREE JUNES, for this reader, succeeds on many, many levels.  Julia Glass has written a cohesively intricate tale that picks up characters from a Whitman's Sampler and manages to make them all intertwine, alter, grow, and learn.<br />The story of a Scottish clan whose history and present tense span a decade has been well documented in the other reviews and in the editorial comments.  Read all of that - after you've immersed yourself in this lovely book - and come to your own conclusions.<br />There are many wonders in this gifted author's first novel.  For one, how as a woman she can write so sensitively, so innately intelligently about the psyche of her gay male narrator is proof of a humbling talent.  That is not a sexist observation: many male novelists have attempted to convey the fears of self acceptance, of living life as a gay male, of struggling with the need/repulsion of being in a meaningful relationship, of coping with the quiet knock of death that has accompanied the evolution of HIV, the will to be a whole human individual while fearing the shedding of the comforting skin of family history.  These are the only a few of issues that Julia Glass addresses in this eminently readable novel.  She has created unforgetable characters (the at once flagrant yet emotionally elusive Mal - a music critic whose true history is revealed to his closest friend only after he ends his life on an AIDS bed, the daunting Fenno whose life choices drive this maze of interconnected families and tangential friendships, the hilarious Dennis and his glowing French wife, two unforgetable parents in Paul and Maureen, the tender/vulnerable Lil whose connections to the clan into which she marries alters the story at every turn, the artist Tony who seduces everyone including the reader while he avoids living in the present by making photographic art of it all.<br />Glass seems to be addressing the fact that each of us pays mental and verbal homage to the concept of love but spend our lives trying to grasp it like the elusive gold ring on the carrousel.  This is a panoramic novel, delivering the sights and smells and air of Scotland, Greece and the New York as a wonderfully rendered backdrop to the human comedy of errors.  In her words \\"Never talk yourself out of knowing you're in love...or into thinking that you are\\" and 'Mind what you love. For that matter, mind how you are loved.'  This multifaceted story will linger in readers' minds long after the last page is turned.our lives trying to grasp it like the elusive gold ring on the carrousel.  This is a panoramic novel, delivering the sights and smells and air of Scotland, Greece and the New York as a wonderfully rendered backdrop to the human comedy of errors.  In her words \\"Never talk yourself out of knowing you're in love...or into thinking that you are\\" and 'Mind what you love. For that matter, mind how you are loved.'  This multifaceted story will linger in readers' minds long after the last page is turned.	2003-02-19
1223882:US	52496677	R2IZ5BUFBK8LSX	0810961296	33114586	Cy Twombly: A Retrospective	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A Fitting Homage to One of the Unique Artists of Our Time	CY TWOMBLY is honored in this very beautifuly designed and executed retrospective book.  Twombly has been incredibly consistent throughout his career showing us the subtle visual line between the innocence of the child's untutored mark and the angst-ridden metaphysical searching for meaning that his canvases can evoke.  Dismissed for a time as an artist who laughed as he displayed his large scribble paintings, Twombly has taken his place among the true greats of 20th Century art. And much of this stature is confidently examined and explained in Kirk Varnedoe's illuminating essay.  Twombly's close relationship with Robert Rauschenberg and the influences of Giacometti and Schwitters, Motherwell and Kline, and even dancer Merce Cunningham and composer John Cage are explored with candor and intelligence!  His life is sensitively followed and his paintings are given the honor they deserve by placing them with a great deal of negative space in this volume on fine paper and design.  The book, another catalogue for a 1995 exhibition at MOMA, is an artwork in and of itself. An elegant and lasting memoir of a fine artist.	2003-02-18
1223981:US	52496677	RWE0O59M2RANR	0520051939	145632573	Art in the San Francisco Bay Area, 1945-1980: An Illustrated History	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Durable Tribute to a Fine Art Critic	ART IN THE SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA 1945 - 1980 is the last written document by the highly regarded, departed writer and critic Thomas Albright.  Always an elegant writer, even when his message was quircky, Albright has left us with the definitve volume on the important art of San Francisco in the peak of its heyday.  The chapters each represent a lecture presented by Albright and include indepth studies of Clyfford Still and the Explosion of Abstract Expressionism, Before the Storm: The Modernist Foundation, The Watershed: Funk, Pop, and Formalism, &quot;Back to Nature&quot;: The Bay Area Figurative School, Conceptualism, Photorealism, etc.  The written word is well illustrated with selected examples, but therein lies the only weakness of this book.  In an overview this solid it would be so much finer were there double the number of examples of the artists being discussed.  Still in all this is a magnificent volume and should be a part of every art library.	2003-02-18
1224310:US	52496677	R3725QIVD54R7P	0520203631	708620655	Facing Eden: 100 Years of Landscape Art in the Bay Area	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Prototype for Museum Catalogues	FACING EDEN: 100 Years of Landscape Art in the Bay Area was created to accompany the 1995 museum exhibition of the same name at the de Young Memeorial Museum in San Francisco.  The fact that it retains popularity as a Book is a testimony of how fine the actual catalogue is.  Beautifully illustrated and written, the idiosyncrasies of the Bay Area topography are first addressed with photographs and maps and drawings dating back to the 1890s.  Then these seeds of ideas are followed through the great painters of the Bay Area and for many readers this will be the first exposure to the unique quality of composition, light, and stance that identifies some very major painters with a Regionalism that competes soundly with the Hudson River School!  Here are the works of Wayne Thiebaud, Richard Diebenkorn, Andy Goldsworth, Stephen deStaebler, and David Park along side less well known painters such as Gordon Cook, Jess, and Michael Gregory.  But the catalogue and exhibition are careful to include the three dimensional works of Bob Arneson,, Tony Cragg and Richard Shaw while introducing less well known works by such fine painters as Christopher Brown, Robert Bechtle, and Richard Estes.  The book is divided into seven sections, each accompanied by a fine essay by some very fine art historians. And just as the book begins with factual photographs of the area that inspired the art, it ends with a beautifully rich section on art photographs of the 'interpreting' the lovely facts of nature.  Highly recommended reading and looking.	2003-02-18
1227953:US	52496677	R1DH2LIQ30C21I	0385509529	830620243	You Are Not a Stranger Here	Books	5	10	13	N	Y	An uncanny imagination suffuses this collections of gems	Adam Haslett.  Keep the name in front of you and watch it sail.  This 'first book' is an astonishingly fine collection of stories that are peopled with folk we haven't met before, yet whom we know after these introductions like family skeletons.  Haslett has the ability to create characters teetering on the edges of sanity and social adjustment and pairs them with counterparts who are at the opposite poles of perception.  He knows the minds of schizophrenics, of awkward adolescents facing first sexual encounters, of men stuggling with both knowledge and fear of homosexuality, of people whose minds have evacuated their bodies and stretch for safe havens which at times imply death.  He seems to have figured out the lost generation and has even taken the time to explore its genealogy.  In a brief 237 pages he presents nine stories that are so well crafted that they become indelibly etched on our minds, and at the same time he leaves portals of escape for not only his characters futures on an unwritten further page but in our imaginations for musing long after finishing this book.  This is a stunning debut: we can only hope that his current status as a law student doesn't preclude his visiting us with more books of equal merit.  A rich mind, this, and much like the words of his final mental patient character \\"You and all the inheritors of wealth who think life is a matter of perfected sentiment.  You are wrong.\\"  This book is a keeper.	2003-02-14
1228435:US	52496677	R1OV7MQGRBUJAE	0811201325	582907995	The Collected Poems of Wilfred Owen (New Directions Book)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	If ever we need to heed this poet it is now	Seeing a posting for a new biography of Wilfred Owen reminded me to return to this anthology of his poems.  Every war has produced great poets and WWI was fixed in our minds by the sensitive words of Siegfried Sassoon and especially Wilfred Owen.  Writing from the trenches Owen managed to keep his eyes and mind and heart wide open while he witnessed the horrid plunder that surrounded him.. That he was able to transpose these experiences into the transcendentally beautiful poems that fill this book is a major wonder.  Yes, WWII had WH Auden et al and the hungry monster machine of war was again made into words.  And poets wrote of Korea, of Vietnam, and other countries' poets wrote of other wars.  But again the threats and facts cloud our lives and world, and their words seemingly fall on deaf ears.  Would that we could take heed of the poems of such perfection as those here by Wilfred Owen.  This is the time to study this book........daily.	2003-02-14
1230143:US	52496677	R18TJ6HRT54T8B	0853318182	902574050	The House Beautiful: Oscar Wilde and the Aesthetic Interior	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Significant Contribution to the Literature on Oscar Wilde	Though the theaters around the world continue to produce the plays of Oscar Wilde and even the Opera houses consider Strauss' adaptation of Wilde's &quot;Salome&quot; as a staple in the repertoire, and while biographies and films about this unique artist increase in number with every year, this book approaches yet another aspect of Wilde's genius.  Charlotte Gere has researched the Aesthetic Movement in England at the turn of the century and attributes the style and popularity of the 'new look' in home decor to Wilde and his entourage.  From paintings to furniture to wallpaper to fabric to book design - all the art nouveau trends were at times created by Wilde and at other times merely popularized by him on his numerous tours. The book is resplendent in illustrations of paintings, homes, photographs, and a lot of just fine biographical data about Oscar Wilde.  A thoroughly informative and entertaining slant on The Importance of Being Oscar!	2003-02-13
1231377:US	52496677	R2Y1P66HKI7K9Z	0300087446	361578928	John Singer Sargent: The Sensualist	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Fleshing out John Singer Sargent	The current re-evaluation of the contributions of John Singer Sargent to the art of the USA, as indicated by the impressive exhibition \\"Sargent And Italy\\" currently in Los Angeles, the steady flow of new books about his work, and the academic resurgence of emphasis on his importance in American art at the turn of the last century - this re-evaluation has been truly underscored by this very fine book by Trevor Fairbrother.  Written with great style and zest, the author explores the sensual nature of an artist once considered a 'society portraitist', a good painter but one more concerned with reaping the wealth from his gifts than in painting for art's sake.  Well, bury that prejudice, as Fairbrother reveals Sargent's preoccupation with the human body, not only elegantly clothed but sensually nude.  A fine example is \\"Nude Study of Thomas E. McKellar\\" in which Sargent paints his favorite African American model in a beautifully erotic pose.<br />But the sensuality does not stop with the plethora of nude figure studies.  Indeed, the author demonstrates how Sargent's compositions of landscapes and buildings as well as outdor and indoor groups of people are rendered with a sensual manipulation of light and pigment.  And much time and discussion focuses on the famous painting 'El Jaleo' of a flamenco dancer barely visible in the artificial light of the stage, making her sensual movements of the hands and wrists ring like the music accompanying her.<br />This well written book is lavishly illustrated with excellent color reproductions and gifts us with a significant body of work at book's end - a folio of male nudes called \\"Album of Figure Studies\\" which alone is worth the price of this superb volume.<br />Highly recommended.	2003-02-12
1235175:US	52496677	R3JN52ZPUM0ZEA	0810962675	551497142	Lucian Freud	Books	5	21	23	N	N	An In-Depth Survey of This Important Painter	LUCIEN FREUD is certainly one of the most talked about contemporary figurative artists around the world.  Most people are familiar with his greater than life-sized portraits of corpulent male and female nudes and of his much talked about protraits of friends such as Francis Bacon and David Hockney. But few of us have been exposed to the gamut of this artist's output to the extent that this very fine book by William Feaver investigates the entire career of the grandson of Sigmund Freud.<br />The book is a catologue for the exhibition currently in Los Angeles, having opened in London and travelled to Barcelona.  But to classify the scholarly and intensively detailed tome as an 'exhibition catalogue' simply does not do justice to the scope of this volume.  The writing by Feaver is wise, witty, and thoroughly readable - the essay portion that opens the book is more a  biography and an analysis of Freud's position in art history than a resume. The color reproductions are superb, spreading as they do across two pages for the very large paintings.  As a catalogue the editors can be forgiven for not including sufficient 'detail views' that enhance understanding, but this is a minor point.  The supporting data in the back of the book is as fine a catalogue raisonne as has been published to date.<br />Those of us fortunate enough to live in Los Angeles allowing multiple visits to this impressive exhibition can use Feaver's book as a Master Class on Lucien Freud.  But the book stands alone in its mastery of the life and work of this exciting painter.  Highly recommended.	2003-02-09
1235477:US	52496677	R3MMIT52WI5ETO	0670031542	730101042	The Story of Lucy Gault	Books	5	46	55	N	Y	When Less Is More	Reading the literature of Willaim Trevor is akin to listening to a string quartet rather than a symphony, to viewing a tiny Vermeer rather than massive Monet, to holding a seashell rather than viewing an aquarium.  THE STORY OF LUCY GAULT is a life of enormous experience distilled by Trevor's deft hand into a mere 225 pages.  The tale is an epic poem, a thoughtful elegy about love, forgiveness, sacrifice, and enduring kindness.  The writing contains the truest scents of Irish language, the tale unfolds with the sweep of a Victorian novel, the emotions elicited are penetrating and piercing, and on many a page there simply cannot be a dry eye - so sensitive and delicate are the human feelings expressed.<br />Willaim Trevor writes with the clarity and economy of a poet while painting his vivid vistas of Ireland, England, Italy, Switzerland........and the human heart.  Here is a book whose story is so fine that it is only on completing the novel that the reader can reflect on what a treasureable journey has been provided.  This story is a tragedy of sorts, but as the author writes &quot;Love is greedy when it is starved...Love is beyond all reason when it is starved.&quot;  The meaning of these lines is for each of us, as readers, to find.  Take your time with this book: the rewards are immeasureable.	2003-02-09
1239909:US	52496677	RSMRA3E204Z7X	0805067922	321580921	Dancer: A Novel	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Life Imitates Art Imitates Life	Colum McCann is creating a stir among critics and readers alike:  he is insisting that DANCER, his new, immensely successful story about the life of Rudolf Nureyev, is 'made up', that it is not a biography but a story inspired by the quixotic life of the famous and infamous premiere ballet danseur.  Whether that public statement being circulated is just a disclaimer, allowing the author to omit and embellish where he choses, or a portal for a more fleshed-out portrait of a controversial character, cannot detract from the fact that this is the work of a fresh writing voice.<br />Fact or fiction, DANCER is one fine novel!  Colum McCann has a keen sense for showing all facets of his main character:  he tells his story through the eyes of several of the important people in the life of one of the greatest dancers in the history of ballet.  And with each new narrator he alters his writing style to match the voice.  The childhood of Nureyev is told in a bleak introductory chapter that enriches our knowledge of post-Csarist Russia with all the atmosphere of the cold climate, tragedy of war upon war, poverty existence of a people caught up in the changes form Csars to Lenin to Stalin to Kreuschev.  Out of this milieu rises a lad who loves to dance, eventually rising to the Kirov then defecting to the West.  His artistic brilliance and media dominance add to the \\"created Nureyev\\" and with every turn in his development as a dancing star and as a libertine we hear the inside story from Margot Fonteyn to the hustler Victor to the lover Erik Bruhn in wonderfully elegant, soaring prose.  The result is a rich tapestry of a life, a boy of poverty rising to a world class star. The personlity quirks are all captured with fascinating, almost voyeuristic detail.<br />DANCER grabs your attention, holds you to the final page, and while painting a photorealistic portrait of Nureyev, the author teaches us much about Russian history, about the mechanics of ballet dancing (including a view of Nureyev's ballet shoemaker), and about he sordid atmosphere of the smarmy side of New York, Paris, London and almost any place where Nureyev lands.  Beautifully written, absorbing, enlightening and satisfying.  Who cares if the book is true biography or fiction!!!Nureyev's ballet shoemaker), and about he sordid atmosphere of the smarmy side of New York, Paris, London and almost any place where Nureyev lands.  Beautifully written, absorbing, enlightening and satisfying.  Who cares if the book is true biography or fiction!!!	2003-02-05
1245903:US	52496677	R32CSKY88PVNMM	0312289480	302465668	The Year of Ice: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	An incredibly fine novel from a welcome new voice	THE YEAR OF ICE by Brian Malloy has been recommended by more good authors than any book I've ever considered reading.  And the reason for all these referrals is that this book is JUST THAT GOOD!  A year in the life of a highschool senior in Minnesota embraces more universal truths and ordinary circumstances than a vast Joycean tome.  Brian Malloy, in his first full-fledged novel, has a gift for storytelling that is uniquely his own.  He lives inside his main character (Kevin) and manages to make all the dialogue parenthetically altered by what Kevin is thinking as he speaks the more acceptable words that form his reactions to the mad world in which he finds himself.  Kevin is closeted gay, thinking that he is only one of three other gays in the world (two being unacceptable role models!)  and his interactions with his classmates, neighbors, grocery store fellow workers, and family are often resolved by his imagination that he ends each day in the lovenest of his own creation with the one guy in school who embodies his private crush.  Malloy has indelibly created a family that includes a mother dead from accident/suicide, a father who has a history of sleeping around, an entourage of widows who prey on Kevin's father, an aunt who is Catholic incarnate, and friends who measure the world in booze, drugs, and getting laid, and more.  While there are a lot of potentially tragic moments in this year of 1978, bracketed as it is in the ice of Minnesota, Malloy manages to find the humor even in the darkest corners.  He has created a character about whom we not only care deeply, but one from whom we learn how to view the times of the world in 1978, and end up loving this idiosyncratic lad.<br />This is, simply stated, brilliant writing.  THE YEAR OF ICE is simultaneously a raucous and hilarious romp, a fresh take on coming of age, and book about tenderness that too often lies frozen under the surface of a cold world.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED to every reader.	2003-01-31
1248650:US	52496677	R17B9KTJV7M3KT	0345446089	219954488	Don't Mean Nothing: Short Stories of Vietnam	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Incoming!	Susan O'Neill's collection of short stories DON'T MEAN NOTHING is more than isolated thoughts about what being in Vietnam as a participant in that bloody political blunder.  This book reads like a novel in that the same characters weave in and out of these short thought/experiences and it does begin as a year of combat duty for a nurse and ends as that nurse goes back stateside.  Perhaps the term 'Short Stories of Vietnam' references the way life was lived during there - moments in between Incoming shellings, explosions, overwhelming Medevacs, moments when there was time for the simple acts of being alive like sex, comradery in the hooch bars, momentary communication with soulmates dressed/talking/feeling/fearing like you.<br />O'Neill is a master of terse statement; her economy of words, richly descriptive as they are, can click a photo thought or memory so precisely that even a few pages can burn an experience on your psyche that is indelible.  O'Neill knows her material, having served as a nurse in Vietnam in 1969-70.  Obviously a bright thinker and writer, she has elected to wait 30 years before committing to paper her responses to that most unpopular of 'wars': that distance adds a more sensitive quality to her stories than would an immediate visceral response after returning to the States, a time when absolutley noone wanted to hear about Vietnam, much less try to understand it from a participant's point of view.<br />Although the entire 'collection' of stories is well done, there are bound to be tales that hurt the heart more than others.  For this reader the Introduction is the most powerful of all, carrying with it flashbacks and images, thoughts and words that are so powerful they re-kindle nightmares.  'The Boy from Montana', 'Medcap', 'Prometheus Burned' are cogent, painful, and magnificent.  But O'Neill can also write comedy, especially the sick type of humor that maintained sanity in Vietnam. All of these stories, ending with a terific 'Commendation', flesh out the details of the history of the Vietnam conflict.  O'Neill is up there with Philip Caputo, Stewart O'Nan, Tim O'Brien and others who have dared write the truth.  Here is not just the feminine input, but the nurses' or noncombatants' view.  An excellent book by a sensitive, fresh writer.flesh out the details of the history of the Vietnam conflict.  O'Neill is up there with Philip Caputo, Stewart O'Nan, Tim O'Brien and others who have dared write the truth.  Here is not just the feminine input, but the nurses' or noncombatants' view.  An excellent book by a sensitive, fresh writer.	2003-01-29
1252446:US	52496677	R16A2XVL2DN5GN	0679439382	39256491	The Little Friend	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A daunting but ultimately worthwhile Magnum Opus	In the closing pages of Donna Tartt's controversial, 555 page novel THE LITTLE FRIEND the main character Harriet muses, in her hospital bed,  at the end of her futile search for her brother's unsolved murderer (in quoting Captain Scott's Antarctic final thoughts) 'that victory and collapse were sometimes the same thing.' And it seems to this reader that this postulate may be the summation of Tartt's second, much anticipated novel. Though at times lugubrious and meandering to the point of losing the story line, Tartt ultimately demonstrates once again that she is a fine artist painting from a rich palette and creating a massive symphony of words and ideas that beg comparison to such greats as Flannery O'Connor and Gustav Mahler.  Strange bedfellows? Perhaps in the Mahler column, but as far as O'Connor similarities are concerned the works mesh well: both are concerned with the darker side of each of us, of nightmarish consequences to everyday decisions, of the bizarre malfunctions of man in nature.  The comparison to Mahler symphonic structure may be more illusive...until you listen to a long Mahler opus, ride through his sidecars of folksong simplicity and grandiose Olympian climaxes, spiritual sublimation coupled with fist-shaking defiance of the heavens, and arrive at the end with a message that is strangely of your own choosing.<br />Tartt knows the aura, flavor, smarmy reality, and quixotic delusions of the South: she hails form Mississippi where she has set this story.  She creeps into the minds and imaginations of the people who populate her book - the remaining class differences, the poverty of soul in families that were once grand but have fallen in monetary deficit, the tattooed permanence of the perception of the African American, the Rednecks and the Bible thumpers alike.  Tartt is a lover of words and knows well how to sculpt atmosphere, character, language and suspense.  The story is essentially that of a 12 year old miscreant of a child who embarks on the journey to prove that she knows the identiy of the murderer of her brother, hanged when she a baby, a murder which has inalterably changed her immediate family, her extended family, and the population of Alexandria, Mississippi. A murder that remains unsolved. How she forges through her convictions proves a mixture of Joan of Arc, of Don Quixote, and the Mad Woman of Chaillot!<br />This skeletal outline is embellished with a richness of detail that many readers who want a quick, full-throttle detective tale have found irritatingly long-winded.  But there is the point of departure for Donna Tartt's similarity to other contemporary writers.  In the long run she seems more interested in the telling of the story than in the story itself, which may be why many readers feel that too many ideas are left unresloved. Tartt ends her novel of very grand schemes and diversions with a kind of personal soliloquy that is more in line with the way life just goes on, whether with reasons of consequences resolved or left for interpretation or dissolution into everlasting mystery.<br />Reading Donna Tartt requires a block of time, unrushed, of pledged indulgence.  Try reading her aloud and more of the magic surfaces.  A quick book with a terse tale this isn't.  And therein lies the beauty.he journey to prove that she knows the identiy of the murderer of her brother, hanged when she a baby, a murder which has inalterably changed her immediate family, her extended family, and the population of Alexandria, Mississippi. A murder that remains unsolved. How she forges through her convictions proves a mixture of Joan of Arc, of Don Quixote, and the Mad Woman of Chaillot! <br />This skeletal outline is embellished with a richness of detail that many readers who want a quick, full-throttle detective tale have found irritatingly long-winded.  But there is the point of departure for Donna Tartt's similarity to other contemporary writers.  In the long run she seems more interested in the telling of the story than in the story itself, which may be why many readers feel that too many ideas are left unresloved. Tartt ends her novel of very grand schemes and diversions with a kind of personal soliloquy that is more in line with the way life just goes on, whether with reasons of consequences resolved or left for interpretation or dissolution into everlasting mystery.<br />Reading Donna Tartt requires a block of time, unrushed, of pledged indulgence.  Try reading her aloud and more of the magic surfaces.  A quick book with a terse tale this isn't.  And therein lies the beauty.	2003-01-26
1260286:US	52496677	R39A5JTSC2MPOX	1590170199	883648352	A Sorrow Beyond Dreams (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	36	37	N	Y	A Sensitively Valuable Elegy	With thanks to the New York Review Books, Peter Handke's A SORROW BEYOND DREAMS is once again available.  This slim but pungent volume opens with an elegant introduction by Jeffrey Eugenides ( author of 'Middlesex' and 'The Virgin Suicides' ) and few writers could better place this memoir of Handke's response to his mother's suicide in 1971 in a more meaningful perspective.<br />Handke writes about his mother in a way that creates a story rather than a history of a life.  There is so much understantding of how the world changed from Pre-WW II through the post war emptiness of a desecrated Europe and its accompanying slow move toward healing that plagues burned countries after victories or defeats signalling the end of wars.  Handke's mother remains nameless which serves to make her a more universal figure than just another individual.  And using the word 'individual' is actually in contrast to the major problem of this tragic women's life.  Always a women of poverty, suffering the cruelties that that station in life suggests (a fatherless child, a marriage of convenience that results in a life with an alcoholic husban, self induced abortions, begging for food, the lack of simple luxuries like Christmas gifts, etc) his mother was not a woman who considered herself an individual: she was a daughter of a postwar poverty and gloom, aligning herself with Socialism which further negated her worth as a unique person.  Her gradual withdrawal in yet another group (those with 'nervous breakdowns') overtured her ultimate complete withdrawal from the world as she finds taking her own life the final solution to her grief.<br />Handke reserves his own response to the loss of his mother until the end of this memoir - a section of memories, flashbacks, regrets and tears that force him to place his final godbyes in the form of the written word.  The writing is powerful in its simplicity, unfettered by false emotions, straight forward in forcing both the author and the reader into confronting the tragedy of suicide.  Perhaps many readers will use this short tome to find healing of like experiences: others will read this book simply because it is a beautifully constructed story of the life on an Everyman/woman.  Highly Recommended.onfronting the tragedy of suicide.  Perhaps many readers will use this short tome to find healing of like experiences: others will read this book simply because it is a beautifully constructed story of the life on an Everyman/woman.  Highly Recommended.	2003-01-20
1265969:US	52496677	R2XNU917S5ANUF	0374199698	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A Fascinatingly Brilliant Book!	Jeffrey Eugenides has taken his time since his debut success with 'The Virgin Suicides' to ponder, create and elegantly write a story that almost defies telling.  The title MIDDLESEX is typical of his canny abilities:  it stands for the name of the Detroit home which is the ultimate dwelling of an extraordinarily interesting family of Greek emigrants, but it also refers the 'third gender' or hermaphrodite that is the embodiment of the main character.  From the first paragraph the author accompanies us on a journey of history of his genetic grandparents and that history just happens to include volumes of information about Greek mythology, the countries of Turkey, Greece, and the conflicts of WWI and WWII that changed the face of Europe.  His style is so engrossing that he never lets our attention stray: his complex family tales are always grounded by musings of the adult 'Cal' who has come to understand his particular physiognomy and gender identity.  The book is at once hilarious comedy and touching tragedy much like the Greek plays of the characters inheritance.  Eugenides has created indelible characters so well that  as they reappear through this lengthy book there is no need to turn back to remind ourselves of their origin.  MIDDLESEX is skillfully, intelligently written and is one of the finer major novels of 2002.  Highly Recommended reading.	2003-01-15
1280886:US	52496677	R64UTG0IKV4DZ	0375413936	964402622	A Brief History of the Flood	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A-Ha! A stunning breath of fresh air!	To the list of exciting 'first books' to be released in 2002 add this 'alledged collection of short stories' (really a novel) by Jean Harfenist to the upper portion of that list.  Though I'm not entirely sure of why Harfenist (or her editor) decided to categorize this amazingly fine tale of coming of age in Minnesota in the 1960s as a short story collection when the stories are so finely woven together, interrelated and ultimately climactic, that decision is unimportant if you get your hands and mind into this book.<br />Jean Harfenist is a gifted writer who can paint characters as brilliantly as many of the finest authors today.  Her lead character, Lillian, is the penulitmate odd child who simply doesn't fit into this tiny Minnesota family in Acorn Lake.  Her hilarious rebellion against what her family and town hold dear propels this book thru her Junior High and Highschool years, eventually resulting in a new adult who ultimately seems the only one of her crazy family to grasp the entirety of the bizarre nature of her maturation; she becomes and even in retrostpect has been the rescuer.  Harfenist writes from the heart, with a keen eye for details that define language, costume, atmosphere and impending doom.  Her creation of the mother figure is one of the most unique, hilarious, pitiful and well constructed silly-yet-sad ladies of American fiction.  This is a book that deserves wide attention from the critics and from readers: you can't help but feel assured that there is MUCH more where this treasure of stories came from.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!	2003-01-05
1290533:US	52496677	RR878GBXB4HEE	0060931973	865554927	Firebird: A Memoir	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Unfathomable memoir for ssuch a Poet of beauty	Mark Doty is one of the finest poets of our time, writing eloquent, informed poems, essays, books, and musings about life and art.  To read FIREBIRD: A MEMOIR almost breaches credibility, so stressful and trying was his childhood and youth.  But perhaps, and probably, this is why he is able to write with such sensitivity today.  FIREBIRD relates the coming of age of a chubby, nerdy, alienated, pre-gay, geeky kid who finds little solace in his family (a deeply disturbed alcoholic mother, a passive ne'er-do-well military type father, a sister headed for incarceration) yet manages to capture moments from this distorted childhood, like expressive dancing to Stravinsky's 'Firebird' and learning to paint from his mother, to head him toward the sucessful communicator he is today.<br />If this sounds a bit like a book you'd rather not endure, then think again.  This is one of rare memoirs that reveals all the pain and learning that life offers to the sensitive mind and then shows how the body that holds that mind can rise from the ashes (phoenix/firebird) and behold a world of art, music, and write about it like few others.  The book is immensely well written.  There are comic moments, childlike reveries, imagination blooming among the atrocoties of discovery of what is adulthood that are related so clearly and eloquently that they beg to be re-read again and again. Example: \\"A life hurtles forward, tumbles out and ahead from these twin poles: firebird and revolver, diametrical opposites like the yes and no which rule the Ouija board: twin magnetic poles which cause a kind of gyroscopic spin, advancing the motion of my tale.\\"  and \\"All along, the firebird watches, patient in ashes, smoldering till the hour to flame.  Just one dance teaches it to believe in the brightness to come.  All it ever needed was a practice run, in preparation for someday's full emblazoning.\\"<br />And with words like that this reader can only recommend this experience book to all who wonder whether they are of worth.  Highly and joyously recommended!they are of worth.  Highly and joyously recommended!	2002-12-28
1293664:US	52496677	R2W7XH306TLX70	3932565266	74803923	Venezia oscura (Edition Axel Menges)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Beauty Secrets	VENEZIA OSCURA is a photographic journey into the hidden and secreted delights of Venice. The opening essay gently invites us to explore those aspects of Venice that escape the tourists' view but instead are part of the spirit of the floating city.  The color photographs are magnificent glimpses of vistas of the canals and the open sea from vantage points not available to the casual photographer. The enters from stage left the masked cast of characters from the preLent Mardi Gras time when the city of history and mystery garlands itself in disguises as beautiful as the architecture that makes this destination so haunting.  A visual delight and a step into ome beauty secrets of Venezia.	2002-12-26
1297960:US	52496677	R333EW6OKSCK7Z	1560231858	207558900	Metes and Bounds: A Novel (Southern Tier)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Finely Written Novel of the South, the Sea, and  Love	Though METES AND BOUNDS has been out for a year now, gathering awards and mixed reviews, I finally took it from the shelf and didn't put it down until it was finished. It's that good. I'm not sure why some readers find no substance here: Jay Quinn knows how to delineate three dimensional characters, how to tell a story with a North Carolina vocabulary and drawl without making it get in the way of the readers eye on the story, understands the ambiguities of coming of age and coming out sexually, and writes some of the most sensuous erotic scenes that are on a par with the best writers of gay fiction. No need for apology about the latter: in a time when many writers skirt the passions of life in favor of the penchants of self-loathing and pity, it is refreshing to read a writer who can celebrate the sensations of sexuality with the skill of Jay Quinn.<br />This is a 'first novel' (though not a first writing venture) and some of the freshness of that station include a bit of overindulgence in side issues.  There is much talk about the ins and outs of surfing that will possibly alienate the non-surfing crowd, but as with any good writing if you pay attention to the writer's descriptions of the technicalities of the sport, you may just learn something new.<br />In the end this little novel has much to say about the importance of extended family.  The beauty of the relationship of the men gathered under one roof as a union bonded by outside world rejection is very tender and inspiring.  Would that more minds picked up on this 'global family unit' idea!  Not only has Quinn written a fine novel, he has sent up a banner for self-acceptance and more - the acceptance of every variation of individual in our tense world.	2002-12-20
1301147:US	52496677	R36DLT268DRINN	0375421068	725554985	Parallels and Paradoxes: Explorations in Music and Society	Books	5	31	35	N	N	A Book So Full	If there is a book that presents valuable and valid lessons in how to resolve differences, be they in attitudes towards the arts, the lack of music in our educational system, the etiology of the Israeli/Palestinian dichotomy, and so much more, then this collection of conversations between Daniel Barenboim and Edward W. Said as edited and synthesized by Ara Guzelimian is it.  This powerful but too brief book reaches for the Nobel Peace Prize in its courage, exploration of the state of man and the possibilities for the future, and in its tremendously accessible format that makes the workings of these three great minds available for us all.  Each of the extended conversations taped betaween 1995 and 1999 addresses an interesting topic that serves to open vistas that go far beyond the crux of the topic.  Hearing Barenboim expound on the fact that no one can exactly interpret a composer's score because the spirit is not on the page but in the making and experiencing the 'sound' that happens in a live performance rather obliterates all critics who descry individual interpretation of the great composers as &quot;not the composer's intention!&quot;  Said carries this into the realm of literature, suggesting that contemporary writers are where they are because of the giants of the past and that we, as readers, are influenced in our interpretation of new work dependent upon our exposure and digestion of works by the old masters.  Contemporary music by composers such as Carter, Schoenberg, and Birtwistle are discussed in a way that assists our concept of listening and learning in the concert hall.  Similar parallels and similar paradoxes in the international political arena are given the same level of inspiring dialog and paths to understanding.  This is a fine, fine book and we are indebted to Ara Guzelimian not only for his written and conversational contributions, but for persevering in having this volume published.  Read this and gain insight and intelligence on many streams of thought that will help us all save this planet.ms of thought that will help us all save this planet.	2002-12-17
1305813:US	52496677	R3BVWV1O335ZDK	0805054081	156310833	The Book of Illusions: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	An engrossing novel, rich in philosophical meditations	Paul Auster is a fine storyteller.  If the reader is unfamiliar with his other books, that does not hinder the appreciation, commitment and involvement to be found between the covers of this highly cinematic tale.  The story is well outlined by the other reviewers - a writer on the skids and in the depths of alcoholic depression after the accidental deaths of his family accidentally sees a silent film by an unknown actor and picks up his broken life exploring the myriad incongruities of his subject's art and life, accidentally following a detective mystery drama to the site of the actor's death bed only to discover resurrection from his own fallen life and then accidentally loses again.  A flimsy outline this, but to give much more detail robs the uninitiated from a story so well constructed and researched and written that it is one of the better novels of this fine author's career.<br />The philosophical questions are never hammered: they arise as naturally as evolution.  What are we as individuals?  What determines the past - our memory, reportage by third parties, glib gossip, acrid secrets?  How planned is our universe - is there a force that places tragedy in our paths as a positive trigger to alter our existence, or is everything that happens to us accidental, or is it choreographed by those people who love/hate us?  Can we truly recall our childhood or is it forever lost to adult-vantage restructuring, the only evidence we have being fading photographs that more often than not were artifically staged in the first place?<br />Wisely, Auster does not provide answers to these questions: his immensely interesting and engrossing story just raises them tangentially.  There is a clue in the theme of the book - the Silent Movie, a form of expression solely dependent on the visual without any of the other senses involved.  Is 'What we see what we get' the key to self exploration, or is that all just Illusion.  This is a splendid novel on all levels, written by a pro!!	2002-12-13
1310212:US	52496677	R1F7B7HU02IJJS	1883923158	707707483	Male Bonding (Fotofactory Anthology Series Book 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The many forms of male bonding	Though primarily a collection of young men in pairs and groups and in various stages of bonding, this little book takes the time and compassion to also look at the joy of all types of male bonding.  Fathers and sons, men in crazy outfits having fun, some very artistic, 'staged for effects' photos, and then the  focus on body parts conjoined just suggesting love making.  This is a refreshing group of black and white photographs that encourages return readings, just for the pleasure of men with men.  The range of photographers covers the very well known (Arthur Tress, Harriet Liebowitz, John Sonsini, Kristen Bjorn, etc) as well as the aspiring  young talents whose works are seen here for the first time.	2002-12-10
1310731:US	52496677	RDICLT4RJWZQC	0807614483	88155629	Another Language of Flowers: Paintings	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The Marriage of Painting and Poetry	ANOTHER LANGUAGE OF FLOWERS is a monograph of paintings, both finished and in preparatory sketches, each oil on canvas and rather large in size, that are gathered and presented with the titles assigned to each painting by poet friends of the painter.  Dorothea Tannning has created twelve elegant and dreamy blossoms and pairs each painting with a poetic response by some of our most gifted poets today - James Merrill, Adrienne Rich, John Ashbery among them.  The result is a beautiful little book that speaks quietly to our sense of beauty.  Here is a treasure book to not only add to your bedside stand to close the day with sweetness, but here is also that 'book for someone special' that is ever on the list for readers and art lovers alike.  Highly recommended.	2002-12-10
1317466:US	52496677	R28636WAJJYX7X	0151004145	289512427	The Cave	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	A Contemporary Journey to Plato's Cave and Back	Jose Saramago is a demanding, difficult, and immensely rewarding writer.  He seems to have endless access to metaphors for the human condition in the time in which he writes.  While his stories are not complex in surface content -  these are tales that are about people coping with life as it is in this time - they are told with a technique that requires much concentration from the reader.  He refuses to use quotation marks or even sentence breaks, creating extended pages of dialogue that become frustratingly confusing to the rapid scanner/reader.  Exploring Saramago requires time, thought, and introspection to appreciate the journey on which he takes us.<br />THE CAVE adresses the homogenization of life globally as current technology strips the world of the individual's creativity, family unit, concept of homeland, conventional marriage and relationships, and poetry of the unique. In place of these we have Centers (terrifyingly close to our myriad Shopping Malls across the world that all house the same stores selling the same goods to the brainwashed public) and a seemingly dark landscape of untended remnants of what we once knew as civilization and history.  Sound familiar? Well that is where Saramago places his novels, in that Kafkaesque netherland which appears to be daily encroaching our planet.  Yet his characters are drawn with such tenderness ( a craftsman potter, his daughter and her husband, a wandering dog they name Found, and a sweet widow who shares the simplicity of courting and tenderness with the potter)that belief in love and values are in safe hands.  The gradual dissolution of the potter's craft of making things unique, from the land, bludgeoned by the Practical Preference for Plastic, and the accompanying move from the beauty of the country home by the kiln and Mulberry tree to the sterility of the police state Center and the devastating effect this has on this simple family unity is basically the story here.  But it is the gripping surprise at the end of this novel -the epiphany of Plato - that makes reading this book so rewarding.<br />Saramago is a brilliant thinker and craftsman but he is definitely not for the casual reader of simple fiction.  This is a combination of philosphy and literature that demands much from the reader.  The rewards, however, far outweigh the time-consuming work!e end of this novel -the epiphany of Plato - that makes reading this book so rewarding.<br />Saramago is a brilliant thinker and craftsman but he is definitely not for the casual reader of simple fiction.  This is a combination of philosphy and literature that demands much from the reader.  The rewards, however, far outweigh the time-consuming work!	2002-12-04
1318344:US	52496677	R3B1PJJ83U92I9	3822865222	12546248	The Art of the Portrait (Masterpieces of European Portrait Painting 1420-1670)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	One of Norbert Schneider's finest books	THE ART OF THE PORTRAIT gives further stature to the quality of research and writing of art historian Norbert Schneider.  In this beautifully illustrated volume he not only explores the idiosyncrasies of portraiture in general, enlightening us as to the vagaries of time and social custom influencing the painters presented here, but he also presents highly entertaining and educational comparisons of the ways different artists have presented the portrait of a similar subject.  Example:  In presenting Rembrandt's 'The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp' he offers a full image of the painting along with well chosen details, then contrasts this famous medical experience with a woodcut from Johannes de Ketham (1493) of an anatomy section, a reference to Mantegna's 'The Dead Christ', Gerard David's 'The Flaying of Corrupt Judge Sisamnes' (1499), and with Rembrandt's own later 'The Anatomy Class of Dr. Joan Deyman'.  We are introduced to the diagonal penchant of composition of Holbein, the demand for group portraiture as in the examples of paintings as familiar as Rembrandt's 'The Night Watch', with those less famous commissions by Franz Hals, Thomas de Keyser, and Cornelis Anthonisz.  Preoccupation with self portraiture is studied with a wonderful sense of humor, and the idiosycrasies of Velazquez's preoccupation with dwarfs, and Arcimboldo's with vegetables and fruits as building blocks for his portraits provide insights that are refreshing.  There are discoveries for the novice art lover of the wondrous works of Lorenzo Lotto and Agnolo Bronzino and Quentin Massys as well as re-visits to the more famous da Vinci, Titian, etc.  In all, a treasure house of images and information!	2002-12-04
1319837:US	52496677	RLQV6DODK5H3K	0821228056	450140431	Chicano Visions: American Painters on the Verge	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An evocative and inspiring monograph of Chicano Art	Hats off to Cheech Marin for curating from his own collection, as well as museum and private and the artists' collections, a body of work that is one of the most interesting and challenging definitions of Chicano Art in the USA today.  Not only is the book well designed and lavishly illlustrated with superb<br />paintings, the accompanying essays by Marin, Max Benevidez, Constance Cortez, and Tere Romo are enlightening, thought provoking, and serve to answer many of the questions as to why Chicano art is so unique a contribution to the art world, not only here in Los Angeles but across the country.<br />The paintings by such luminaries as Frank Romero, John Valadez, Margaret Garcia, Gronk, Eloy Torrez, and the late and much missed Carlos Almaraz only hint at what treasures are in store for the aficionado as well as the novice.  The quality of color reproductions is good and the placement of the works in context with brief statements about the artist or the subject makes turning each page an adventure.<br />Chicano Art is recognized by the knowledgeable art critics as probably the most important single school of art to blossom in Los Angeles in the past 50 years.  These artists express the heritage of the Hispanic (if that word may be used...) population - the struggle of the dream of El Norte, the magical realism of folklore, the passionate use of color and light, the incomparably complex compositions that layer not only images but experiential feelings on a single canvas, the joy for living, the response to music.  Whether in the hands of photorealist John Valadez or the explosive expressionism of Carlos Almaraz or the grand scale and imagination of Frank Romero (whether dealing with his much collected Still Lifes or his panoramas of East LA past and present), these paintings leap of the page, involve us and demand attention.<br />This is an excellent homage to this excitingly rich art movement. It deserves to be in the collection of everyone who longs for validation of life as a reason for making and collecting art.  Bravo to all concerned!ation of life as a reason for making and collecting art.  Bravo to all concerned!	2002-12-02
1322332:US	52496677	RHGR4RUD5ZAP9	0231084269	396219168	Here I Stand	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Quiet but Convincing Evaluation of 'Perspective&quot;	Norris Kelly Smith has a point of view about art through the ages that may cause clangor among art instructors but will undoubtedly find compatible audience with artist and art viewers who enter the realm of looking at pictures with a hope for transcendence.  HERE I STAND: Perspective from Another Point of View is a lovely extended essay that postures the concept that mathematics and science probably have little to do with the way paintings have been constructed and executed from the Renaissance forward.  Texts on art emphasize the 'vanishing point', showing how artists use lines and graph squares to create a since of foreground and background, distance, and depth.  Smith explores the internal vision of painters and argues that such 'mathematical clues' had much less significance to artists than the presence of social, religious, and political values - insitutionsa of the times outweigh the scientifc dissection approach.  If grids are applied to, say Piranesi, then the matematical mind finds little but contradictions.  If however the paintings of castles, or battles, or even vistas of boulevards and cityscapes are observed from the eye of an artist who places more value on his view of man's place in the conteext of what is being represented, then 'perspective' just naturally develops.  Observation is a response to the eye and the eye relfects the mind and experiences of the painter.  This is not an earth-shattering postulate, but it is certainly a refreshing new way of observing paintings both from the past and from the present.  He closes his find little book by stating &quot;Architects cannot be pessimists, cannot give way to despair.  They can devise ways of making us more comfortable, of moving traffic more expeditiously, but  they cannot, any more than can deracinated painters, install the institutions that must, in the long run, be more important and more enduring than any work of art can possibly be.&quot; The book is generously illustrated and beautifully designed. Recommended for open-eyed artists and art lovers.signed. Recommended for open-eyed artists and art lovers.	2002-11-30
1324080:US	52496677	R1RALWITEQDDW1	1560233818	676107824	This Thing Called Courage: South Boston Stories	Books	5	6	7	N	N	What a Revelation!	Literary world take note: JG Hayes has arrived and with his appearance comes a voice utterly honest and unique, a style that carries signature traits that are never cloying, never 'au courant', and never for self indulgent effect. This gifted man knows that elusive skill of storytelling, a skill that is sadly lacking from many better known authors writing in this country today. For the uninitiated, and for the sport of comparison, think Jamie O'Neill ('At Swim, Two Boys'), K.M. Schoelein ('The World of Normal Boys'), and other writers of equal dollops of skill and courage in writing about gay culture, but the comparisons don't stop there. I think Hayes has opened the door to the ranks of Richard Russo, Annie Proulx, Seamus Heaney, Flannery O'Connor, Frank McCourt, JD Salinger, James Joyce, and a throng of others whose voices are unique and timeless.<br />THIS THING CALLED COURAGE: SOUTH BOSTON STORIES is a rich collection of short stories and novellas that dare to explore a corner of the world that includes a re-evaluation of the macho South Boston Irish image of a 'normal' man, challenging the Catholic Church from a stance of a believer instead of a critic, articulating the wholeness of mental and physical response of young lads coming to grips with their longings/lusts/fears and scintillations/passions/joys of that first encounter with same sex love. A huge bit of information to relate and explore, but Hayes does so successfully in this extraordinary first novel.<br />For this reader the amazing contribution here is his ability to tell seven stories about South Boston people, give each of the stories its own vocabulary and flavor, keep the stories tied together by soft references to names in other stories within the collections that gives the sense of community to the book, and tells each tale through the eyes of distinctly varied characters from Irish gang members to sexually repressed young adult males, to little girls, to narcissistic gym boys, to the mentally disturbed. Yet even more unique in the field of coming of age/coming out novels, Hayes knows how to describe the strange mixture of dreamy desire, sexual arousal, and abject terror that accompanies first physical encounters whether those encounters be heterosexual or bisexual or homosexual. This writing could never be construed as pornographic: this is sensual, erotic, and yet amazingly pure feeling that all authors attempt, few succeeding because of word traps like 'member' or 'manhood' or 'enter' that act as clods in the path of writing about sexuality. These 'clods' never even come into view with Hayes' stories. He maintains the dignity of his characters while allowing us to sense their passions.<br />To isolate a portion of this collection as 'best' is not possible for this reader. THE RAIN stands with the finest of tales about the various etiologies of mental illness (or reactive madness) in a completely credible manner. WHEN JESUS CAME TO TOWN slowly unfolds a richly charactered story as related by a cunning little sister with the courage to travel the tightrope of love for two brothers and the discovery of a family secret that threatens alienation from parents and church and the world at large. It is a graceful, tightly integrated story that ends this treasure trove book with lingering food for thought. Personal favorites will arise for the reader of JG Hayes: I was captivated with the title story (THIS THING CALLED COURAGE) and with JIMMY CALLLAHAN, MARRIED, THREE KIDS and REGULAR FLATTOP. I am left in deep admiration for this gifed writer and eagerly await his next book. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED reading for everyone.disturbed. Yet even more unique in the field of coming of age/coming out novels, Hayes knows how to describe the strange mixture of dreamy desire, sexual arousal, and abject terror that accompanies first physical encounters whether those encounters be heterosexual or bisexual or homosexual. This writing could never be construed as pornographic: this is sensual, erotic, and yet amazingly pure feeling that all authors attempt, few succeeding because of word traps like 'member' or 'manhood' or 'enter' that act as clods in the path of writing about sexuality. These 'clods' never even come into view with Hayes' stories. He maintains the dignity of his characters while allowing us to sense their passions.<br />To isolate a portion of this collection as 'best' is not possible for this reader. THE RAIN stands with the finest of tales about the various etiologies of mental illness (or reactive madness) in a completely credible manner. WHEN JESUS CAME TO TOWN slowly unfolds a richly charactered story as related by a cunning little sister with the courage to travel the tightrope of love for two brothers and the discovery of a family secret that threatens alienation from parents and church and the world at large. It is a graceful, tightly integrated story that ends this treasure trove book with lingering food for thought. Personal favorites will arise for the reader of JG Hayes: I was captivated with the title story (THIS THING CALLED COURAGE) and with JIMMY CALLLAHAN, MARRIED, THREE KIDS and REGULAR FLATTOP. I am left in deep admiration for this gifed writer and eagerly await his next book. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED reading for everyone.	2002-11-28
1326606:US	52496677	R1PAD1PMD5MOFH	0060922249	12294410	Care of the Soul : A Guide for Cultivating Depth and Sacredness in Everyday Life	Books	5	47	49	N	Y	A Light in the Universal Darkness	In a time when the communications in writing and on the radio and  television waves all appear to be proclaiming Armageddon, when crime is mounting not only in the terrorist activities throughout the globe but also on our hometown sidewalks, streets, neighborhoods and schools, and when lasting relationships and friendships seem to be taking on the semblance of extinction - in these perilous and sad times Thomas Moore's CARE OF THE SOUL glows with particular meaning.  In this wondrously simple book Moore reacquaints us with the self and the sacredness of our individual being (or soul).  He encourages us to be introspective, find the core of our being, honor the beauty of our uniqueness, love our human frailty, and in doing so we can grow to be a whole person, capable of loving our self and extending that love to all of mankind.  Does that sound banal in the year 2002?  Well, perhaps that is our universal failing.  Would that we could broadcast this book's message in place of all the media blitz  of war and death and terror and gloom!  And perhaps if we individually read and absorb Moore's thoughtful teachings then the sharing of this new self respect could alter the course of current events.  A beautifully written, incredibly valuable book, and a worthy gift to ones you love!	2002-11-26
1329130:US	52496677	R36L9ZGPWS5QQ0	0847806650	242405565	Antonio Lopez-Garcia	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Do what you can to learn about this painter!	ANOTONIO LOPEZ is profoundly respected in Spain and occupies rooms in the museums in Madrid.  Known primarily to atists and art historians in this country, Antonio Lopez is a painter who deserves world acclaim.  His style is representational with patience of observation of an object over long periods of time that imbues his work with an honesty that places him among the masters.  So true is his perception that a fine film has been made of his prolonged painting of a Quince, proping up the branch of the selected fruit as its weight increases with maturity solely for the purpose of completing his thoughts and painting without resorting to in-studio alterations.<br />Any book obtainable about this artists would be a must for every sensitive artist and collector.  The finest collection of his work is found in the catalogue of his exhibition in Madrid in 1993 and the elements of writing and reproduction are closely seconded by this volume by Francisco Nieve.<br />Antonio Lopez paints cityscapes, landscapes, protraits, still lifes, and large canvases that include some surreal elements.  His palette is subtle, and his degree of observation is uncanny.  If only someone would present this artist in the Americas!  Until then, do what you can to obtain any book about his work.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-24
1330617:US	52496677	RZVNAOBXD3F19	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A very good read!	I resisted reading Ann Patchett's BEL CANTO because it seemed that the recommendations came primarily from readers who don't want anything more in a book than a romantic escape from today.  Now I'm wondering what is so wrong with that sort of recommendation!  BEL CANTO is a good read: it captures your interest, creates a microcosm, populates the pages with people you would like to know, and keeps its story confined to one place so that the afterburn of the tale can be appreciated.  Patchett knows how to keep a storyline moving even though the premise of a terrorist coups taking over a birthday party in the Vice President's mansion in a South American country and holding the hostages for nearly a month seems to stretch credibility.  But given the tale (some suggest this is based on a true incident in Lima, Peru????) the author seems to want to demonstrate that within the confines of a claustrophobic camp of terrorists/hostages the saving thread is music - specifically Opera at the hands of a very Renee Fleming-like singer.  Being an opera addict, it is easy for me to see how whiling away the days of captivity listening to opera might be a satisfying refuge, but to stretch that feeling to a whole amalgam of types begs indulgence.  Love blossoms everywhere despite the circumstances.  The ending is abrupt and unexpected and a bit too tidy.  One can take umbrage with the author's spoon feeding us translations of famous arias, getting bogged down in vocal techniques, overusing the concept of a translator, etc,  but in the final analysis she creates a story that does have a fine moral statement about our state of being in a world surrounded by the threat of terrorism.  If somehow we can remember this little book when things turn against us, Patchett will have succeeded in writing more than the entertaining book this most assuredly is.	2002-11-22
1338627:US	52496677	R1P2WD0GL4Z1B0	0374523827	232917487	Watermark	Books	5	44	45	N	Y	Ode to a floating, perhaps transient city	WATERMARK is an apt title for this splendid collection of thoughts and fugues on the city of Venice, a place where Brodsky returned yearly for seventeen years and where in the solitude of the winter months in this most desirable of tourist destinations he composed some of his best poetry and translations.  Brodsky's title refers to the repeated traces (watermarks) the sea makes on the canals and decaying buildings of Venice, like pages from a book of history or of poetry, or a novel.  He writes extended soliloquies about the surfaces of the water in the canals and in the surrrounding sea that softly and surely continues to submerge Venice.  He also writes colloquies of conversations with Ezra Pound's widow and the subsequent memories and opinions of that controversial figure.  His rambling discourses while strolling the narrow streets that follow the canals inevitably to the sea are rich in observation and philosophy. His love for Venice is always palpable.  '...the whole city, especially at night, resembles a gigantic orchestra, with dimly lit music stands of palazzi, with a restless chorus of waves, with the falsetto of a star in the winter sky.  The music is, of course, greater than the band, and no hand can turn the page.'<br />Joseph Brodsky is at his finest in much of this small volume.  For those who love Venice by association or by dreams of history and the music of Vivaldi, Bellini, and the art of Tiepolo or Titian, this collection of reveries is a must. Elegant, charming, stimulating, and nostalgic.	2002-11-15
1341861:US	52496677	R30CI6AIBDF1T3	0375414657	321194841	The Piano Tuner	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Fascinating story that takes its time pulling you in	THE PIANO TUNER is medical student Daniel Mason's first novel: 'first' is the operative word here because this young man has a gift that will doubtless produce further adventures.  There are many aspects of THE PIANO TUNER that conjure such wide ranging predessors as Joseph Conrad[Heart of Darkness], Somerset Maugham, Richard Halliburton, Michael Ondaatje [The English Patient], C.S. Forster [The African Queen], and Rudyard Kipling.  Not bad company.  This novel takes a while to gain credibility; it seems the writer grows better as the novel progresses.  Doubtless that the author's experiences in Burma left not only an indelible impression on him, but also stirred the exotic atmosphere that lends itself to mysterious stories of places for the most part unknown to Westerners.  Edgar Drake is a piano tuner summoned to Burma to tune a French piano in a shangrila village at the behest of an English Surgeon Major.  An odd assignment, yes, and one that stretches credibility until once the journey to the ailing piano begins.  To add more to the outline of what happens within the pages of this quite beautifully written novel would be unfair to lovers of intrigue.  Suffice it to say that Daniel Mason - for his beginner's traits of occassional loss of focus, meandering, full character development, and preoccupation with letting us know the depth of his research into Victorian Burma/British colonialism - manages to write a poetic homage to the need we all feel to find the essence of life in the ordinary beauty of nature.  There is much lyrical Eastern spiritualism here, enough to last far beyond the covers of this book.  This is a real find and a fascinating read.	2002-11-13
1346032:US	52496677	R3EI5G8X0RZKQY	0810935406	19240664	Richard Avedon Portraits	Books	5	30	33	N	N	The Book as Art	RICHARD AVEDON PORTRAITS is a stunning work, not only because of the usual expected glory of his photographs, but because of the genuinely artistic concept behind this catalogue for a Museum Exhibition.  Slipcased, the book opens as an accordian with single and diptych/triptych photographs viewable by placing the unscrolled book on a tabletop or bookshelf.  Not that there are any new moments here: this is a collection of some of Avedon's famous faces and bodies, curated for a specific purpose.  But to view Andy Warhol together with his co-creators of his photos and films standing on one page clothed and on another nude intensifies the manner in which Avedon's manner of capturing the star's works so well.  We are treated to a full face of Francis Bacon and in the next panel a partial view of his entire body.  All manner of odd characters inhabit these deliciously synchronous pages.  The back side of this tableaux discusses Avedon, his influences and appropriations from painting and other art forms, and does what it sets out to do - make the pieces of the tableaux relevant in the history of the time in which they were photographed. This is a clever and rewarding book and the book itself becomes art.	2002-11-09
1346191:US	52496677	R337XAGQB0CQQ9	1857592662	472477935	John Koch: Painting a New York Life	Books	4	17	17	N	Y	Worth searching for	JOHN KOCH: PAINTING A NEW YORK LIFE was published as a catalogue for an exhibition and has become one of those fine  books that didn't last beyond the time of the exhibit.  Finding a copy is like searching for the end of the rainbow. But once found, you will wonder why this 'catalogue' wasn't converted into a book for the American libraries.  John Koch was a fine painter, in the manner of Sargent, Eakins, et al but confined his paintings to either myths from the past or myth-like settings in the current New York society that admired his works.  His talent was genuine, his sense of space and atmosphere among the best, and his figurative works stand with the best of them.  This book is rather short on information but rich on exposing us to the works of an under-appreciated painter.  Definitely worth going to the search engines for a copy.  I would highly recommend that the transition to a second printing (and beyond) be considered by the author and editor. It is just too fine a book to let disappear!	2002-11-09
1346509:US	52496677	R3DSTVS3GFJ70U	3905514982	533417630	Steven Arnold: "Exotic Tableaux"	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Kitsch as Art	Steven Arnold (died 1994) was a master of drama.  He used his camera to concoct bizarre fantasies rich in imagination and overflowing with props.  He had no fear as far as subject matter and he painted is often nude models, draped, positioned and manipulated them, and the results are like Rorschach tests - often bipartite views that serve to make the eye investigate while it is titilating.  Other phototographers have used the staged studio setup (Joel Peter Witkin is the most familiar of these), but few have pulled off the theatical, operatic, erotic images like Steven Arnold.  This is a priceless book that can be enjoyed on many levels. A definite collectors item!	2002-11-09
1346692:US	52496677	R6R3VMTJDE64J	0374158312	40491181	Joseph Brodsky, Leningrad: Fragments	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Opening the past and the mind of Joseph Brodsky	JOSEPH BRODSKY, LENINGRAD: FRAGMENTS succeeds on every level.  For those not familiar with Brodsky's brilliant poetry I would recommend that you spend time with WATERMARKS, his tribute to the city of Venice, before coming to this book.  Once the gentle subtleties of his poetry are in mind, then spending time perusing this pictorial essay of Brodsky's face and the scenes of Leningrad (the old name for St. Petersburg is used because that was the city's Soviet name used when Brodsky lived there) will form a complete picture of this amazing expatriate.  Mikhail Lemkhin addresses not only the pictorial influences on the poet, but also adds some words of wisdom.  The tribute at the end of the photographs, in some of Sunsan Sonntag's most eloquent writing, is  a fitting closure to this very lovely book.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-09
1349278:US	52496677	RZ5SFEWNFWUSM	0892366583	89433487	Seeing Venice: Bellotto's Grand Canal (Getty Trust Publications: J. Paul Getty Museum)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Venice, art, and being as only Mark Doty can illuminate	SEEING VENICE is a truly appropriate title for this small gem of a book that celebrates the presence of the Bellotto 18th Century painting 'View of the Grand Canal' which graces the collection of the Getty Museum in Los Angeles.  As in his earlier book STILL LIFE WITH OYSTERS AND LEMON Mark Doty writes succinct conversations with us about just looking at this elegant painting.  His intensely poetic vision accompanies us through the various aspects of not only the painting but of the history of Venice. He reminds us that Venice is essentially a relic from the past, loved by writers, painters, composers, and visitors.  Why is it so universally loved? 'Part of the world's love for this place must have to do with the fact that it has always seemed ephemeral, doomed.  Might the whole city drift away? Certainly it might go under.'  Taking us on a visual journey of every aspect of the painting (reflections, the boats, the people, the domes, the endless vista into space, etc.), Doty pauses to remind us how we in this country treat historical buildings and places differently.  'We like our evidence of time at a distance: quaint, pickled in resin or amber.  We don't want it near our bodies.' Poignant food for thought.<br />And as if this remarkably beautiful essay weren't enough the book is one of close details of the grand painting that spans the cover of the dust jacket: Doty's words are 'illustrated' by a careful art editor, unfolding in quality color, production and design. This is a stunning little work of words, history, art and poetry. Would that all great paintings could be so illuminated for us by this gifted man's eyes and words!	2002-11-06
1353352:US	52496677	R2INBY5ZJD149D	0060002093	122576315	Ignorance: A Novel	Books	4	15	20	N	N	On returning home	Milan Kundera continues his exploration of the most basic of human emotions in this brief novel that addresses how we deal with memory, internalization of fear of failure, and fear of commitment.  Though the story of IGNORANCE revolves around two people who return to Prague after an extended exile from their homeland due to the seemingly constant political upheavals and displacements of the 20th century global events, the core of this story encourages us to examine our fantasies of our past, our idealized childhood and first love experiences, and our vulnerabilities about aging, about returning to the 'home' we have altered to such a degree by distance and memory conflicts.  Kundera manages to capture the fragile spaces in his characters' minds and psyches and in doing so he holds a mirror up to his readers.  What were our formative years really like?  Can we recapture idealized pasts by returning to them?  The sad answers are 'no', we can't go home again.  Life and our accompanying maturity alters everything - places, old comrades, old loves, old hopes and pain.  Though this book is a quick read, easily an evening's read, it distills many sharply focused matters of life as we have lived it and life as we continue to grow.  This is  thought-provoking book, well written, and a must for lovers of Kundera's style.	2002-11-03
1358123:US	52496677	R1M74HCL0CTVHG	1555951414	755783062	Joyce Treiman	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Glowing Tribute to one of America's Finest Artists	JOYCE TREIMAN.  The name holds very special memories for those who have experienced this gifted artist of the last century either in person or in her drawings and paintings that grace the walls of the important museums in this country.  This Monograph is one of the most eloquent books in print about an artist of our time.  Though Joyce Treiman died in 1991 her contribution to the arts in America lives on and this lushly illustrated and informative book serves as a reminder of the degree of talent she embodied.<br />Joyce Treiman was both a draughtsman, an iconoclast, and a painter of such dexterity and creativity that even today she remains 'unclassifiable'.  Painting in the 1960s, 70s, and 80s, when figuration was considered retrogressive, Joyce Treiman painted magnificent canvases that paid homage to Eakins, Sargent, Bonnard, Tiepolo, and Rembrandt - all with a flare for homage and tongue-in-cheek wry humor.  Her later paintings almost always included an element of self portraiture and it is this aspect of her style which gifts the art students of today with a sublime example of 'The Painter's Progress'.<br />The essays in this magnum opus are erudite and entertaining.  Theodore F. Wolff writes lovingly of Treiman's life and talent while Michael Duncan details admiration for a woman who just went about her art of painting without regard to varying styles or schools.  Terrific examples of Treiman's drawings are interspersed with drawings by the masters to show the influences on her evolving technique.  The plates of her paintings are color-true and plentiful.  And the book includes an extensive biography and exhibition section.<br /><br />This is a magnificent volume on art of the 20th Century and for Treiman's cadre of devotees it is a heartwarming tribute. For those unfamiliar with her work, it is a startlingly fine introduction.  Highly Recommended!	2002-10-30
1367439:US	52496677	R1XYLX58QGKTS5	0811215059	771315561	A Heart So White	Books	5	44	49	N	N	A Humbling Experience	For those for whom reading fine books is an integral part of their lives, so much a part that the world of writers seems a comfortable neighborhood,  it is always a humbling experience to 'discover' a truly great author by chance.  Picking up A HEART SO WHITE by Javier Marias, taking it off the shelf of books meant to read when all the good recent purchases have been finished, in fact a  'filler' until you decide what you really want to read next - this is how I came to this book.  What a revelation that an author of this caliber and a book of this magnitude was 'unknown' until that moment.<br />A HEART SO WHITE is one of the more important books to come out of Spain, indeed out of the world literature in the last decade.  Javier Marias writes with a style wholly his own, a liquid use of words that create not only rich images, but experiences in time travel, in plumbing the soul of relationships, of the importance of our individual pasts, of the myriad ways a single instant of time can be metamorphosed by a variety of observors. He is able to write a theme and variations, a prelude and fugue, a sentence so musical that its incredible length serves only to endear us to his luminous mind.  The story is important - marriage, a conjugal bed as a theatre of discovery and exploration of the now and the then, and the terrible and beautiful ways a single moment can  alter a life.  But for this reader the joy of this novel is in the performance that awaits the eyes on every page, the depth of knowledge of the author, and the wonder of the magic of the written word.  This book is a masterwork, well worth the commitment it requires of a reader.  A Heart So White leaves you breathless, satisfied, yet hungry for more..in the next book.	2002-10-22
1376175:US	52496677	R2K1VWY48JX4KH	0312150601	240594756	Behind the Scenes at the Museum: A Novel	Books	5	78	81	N	N	The real imaginary world of Ruby Lennox	Friends sharing books they love usually means you're in for a treat.  Thanks, Anya!  BEHIND THE SCENES AT THE MUSEUM is a total triumph of a book.  Voted a Whitbread Book of the Year when published in 1995 this extraordinarily entertaining novel was the first novel by Kate Atkinson and she surely knows her stuff.  Not only is the writing of the first caliber, but the technique of storytelling is invigorating and fun and warm and tragic and in short, about as fine a coming of age novel as anyone has written.<br />Ruby Lennox narrates this delectable tale of her life in a dysfunctional geneology from the point of her conception ( thoroughly entertaining view of life from within the uterus) through her childhood and young adulthood up to the age of 41.  Atkinson divides her book into Chapters and Footnotes: the Chapters are the chronological tale of the wonderfully crazy Ruby and her sisters and bizarre mother and father and the Footnotes after each chapter explore the history of her English family for the past century.  This affords the reader with a history and an interpretation of that history by wily little girl who is wise beyond her antics.  Ruby knows there must be a Lost Property Cupboard (her theory of the afterlife) 'where (when we die) all things we have ever lost have been kept for us - every button, every tooth..library books, all the cats that never came back...tempers and patience...meaning and innocence..dreams we forgot on waking, nestling against the days lost to melancholy thoughts....'  That is just a sample of the beauty of Atkinson's writing gifts.<br />The world finally focuses for Ruby but to tell how would alter the joy of discovery this wonderful little character.  'I'm in another country, the one called home.  I am alive.  I am a precious jewel.  I am a drop of blood.  I am Ruby Lennox.' This is some of the best writing you'll find.  After you've spent a rewarding time reading it, share it with someone you love.  Again, Thank you Anya!	2002-10-15
1383383:US	52496677	R3PFTXQSDOGK6U	0801431611	430804742	Madness in America: Cultural and Medical Perceptions of Mental Illness Before 1914 (Cornell Studies in the History of Psychiatry)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A brilliant marriage of art and science	MADNESS IN AMERICA: Cultural and Medical Perceptions of Mental Illness before 1914 is a delectably readable, in depth investigation of mental illness during a time when few kind words for the clinically insane were in vogue.  Psychiatry hadn't really evolved into a respectable zone of medicine until Freud and people with now well-defined disorders of the mind were grouped into madhouses and insane asylums populated by tertiary syphilitics, victims of brain tumors, and mentally retarded unfortunates.  This 'untouchable' status left the population free to derive all manner of perverse etiologies from demonolgy to withcraft to religious punishment and that opened the door for not only charlatans but also for artists of every field to interpret whatever they wished.  As the keenly gifted authors Lynn Gamwell and Nancy Tomes have researched and described in this lavishly illustrated tome, madness was a much maligned yet rich source of inspiration for scientists and artists alike.  Extensive illustrations of the ghastly tools of the asylum doctors' trade are interwoven with beautiful and accurate renderings of the human nervous syatem and etchings, drawings and paintings by well known artists whose works were never thought to reflect madness until this volume.  This book could (and most assuredly does) easily stand on its own; the fact that it accompanied an exhibition showing the drawings, instruments, and art inspired by madness during a learned physical documentary in 1995 only adds to the richness of this venture.  Kudos to the authors, the publisher, and the curators for a true gift to the realm of scientifically artistic investigation.	2002-10-08
1383763:US	52496677	REFTW2M4F43JG	1401054676	61218267	Sacred Blood	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A superb story revealing a heinous truth	Bravo to Nelson Aspen!  He has written an engrossing novel that is as sharp as a two edged sword.  His use of historical data to set the stage for a tender love story stands with the best of the novelists who employ history with fiction.<br />SACRED BLOOD tells us all we need to ever know about the 'Lebensborn' program instituted by the Nazis to replenish the dwindling German population decimated by WWI.  Not a bad idea as Aspen is adroit to infer in the opening chapters of this book: where else could young unwed mothers find respect and honor in giving birth to their illegitimate children than in places such as the occupied French Chauteau Blanche, a dormitory ...maternity suite? The odious racial cleansing part of the program develops gradually.<br />A brief sexual encounter has imbedded our herione Anna with a baby sired by her beloved boyfriend Peter just prior to his leaving for the Eastern Front as an SS soldier.  Anna leaves her completely supportive family to take residence in the elegant Chateau where she is treated as a hero of the Third Reich.  Gradually she discovers through communication  with Peter, talks with the grocery delevery boy Henri, and hearing conversations in the Chateau that the mothers are just baby receptacles and the chance for a happy life after 'Lebensborn' is doubtful.  With page turning facility -Aspen writes simply, directly, and terrifyingly to the point where it is next to impossible to put this book down until the final surprising chapters.  This is excellent story telling technique - no technical treatise burden here, no vague poetic floundering, just the terse kind of talk that relates tales such as these - tales we'd rather believe never happened - in a wholly convincing manner.  A fine read, this!	2002-10-08
1387611:US	52496677	R2Q4T8DPBL1CFX	0907040764	685219664	Michael Leonard Paintings (English, French and German Edition)	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Pensively sensual works	Michael Leonard's art is well known to admirers of Figurative Art and this difficult to find book of his paintings justifies his place of importance in the currrent resurgence of representational art.  Leonard finds beautiful metaphors in the sanctity of the locker room and allows us a quiet view of young men ending or beginning physical nurturing of the body beautiful. The lighting effects are luminous and the brushwork is fastidious.  Much is left to the viewer as to the interpretation of these paintings but Lincoln Kirstein's commentary adds much to the pleasure of this book.	2002-10-04
1387650:US	52496677	R2EA9MVA7RCCNZ	0316739367	688687238	Martin Sloane: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	One of those Rare Books with phenomenal staying power	Accolades for a book of the quality of MARTIN SLOANE cannot match the intrinsic gleam of this mutifacteted jewel of creation.  Michael Redhill apparently spent 10 years from the time of first release of this novel in Canada revising, polishing, perfecting this extended poem-like novel and the energy he spent is apparent only in the fact that the end result is as close to perfection as a first novel can get.  This does not feel like a &quot;over-worked, struggling idea&quot; that some might expect of a novel revised a dozen times.  We are only aware of a lustrous story beautifully rendered.<br />MARTIN SLOANE is basically the story of a man who quietly tries to discover the events of his childhood by creating collage boxes - three dimensional constructions of art in the manner of Joseph Cornell.  A recluse, he is &quot;discovered&quot; by a Bard College freshman by the name of Jolene Iolas who invites him to exhibit the works she cannot purchase in the gallery of her college, an event that leads to a ten year relationship between the 54 year old Martin and the 19 year old Jolene.  Living in two cities they carry on a strange existence at once supportive and threatening.  When Martin suddenly, by night, walks away into obscurity, Jolene mourns his absence, then proceeds with her life in temporary zones, until she finally traces Martin's 'lost childhood' to his origins in Ireland.  This is a greatly oversimplified synopsis, excluding many twists and turns and characters, but that is basically our story.<br />The beauty of this book is in the writing, the poetic use of language, the sensitive interplay of flashbacks that at times take some work  on the part of the reader to determine which voice is narrating.  This is a paean to the universal feelng of loss of person when age reminds us that our childhood can never be retrieved, much less be completely and wholly known or understood.  Had we the ability to enter our child's space, get to know the 'me' hidden there, we might be more adept at coping with love and relationships.  The dance of memory with make-believe, reality with imagination, child truth with adult fiction - all these components make this story far more than simply the enormously well-told novel that it is.  This book is a work of great beauty and a gift to the fortunate reader who happens upon it.  A gleamingly fine novel.might be more adept at coping with love and relationships.  The dance of memory with make-believe, reality with imagination, child truth with adult fiction - all these components make this story far more than simply the enormously well-told novel that it is.  This book is a work of great beauty and a gift to the fortunate reader who happens upon it.  A gleamingly fine novel.	2002-10-04
1392488:US	52496677	R32OS14OYMZDEM	0971598118	760562009	T'ongil : the thirst for love	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A mesmerizing, illuminating journey into the spiritual world	T'ONGIL by Julian Winter is such  a unique story that it almost defies description. It definitely is a love story ( or rather a series of love stories) but it is far more than that.  By creating characters from opposite sides of the world (Korean and American Indian), placing them in life patterns that differ widely (Institute of Learning about animals such as jaguars, lions, tigers, leopards vs a house of prostitution) and blending these disparate elements into unified spiritual journeys, author<br />Julian Winter has given us one of the most unlikely tales out of which he creates wholly credible characters whose natures are in many ways other-worldly.<br />To reveal too much of this mystery would detract from the powerful impact that reading this book will have on the reader.  But simply put, Ainsley (or Fallen Feather as his Indian heritage reveals his loaded name) studies large cats (of the tiger type) and  has been through a near death experience - having been mauled by one of his cats while rescuing a child - that has bonded him spiritually/physically with his animals. He is a loner who encounters a beautiful Korean girl (Changmi or Rose or Ri as we learn during her character development) making a living as a prostitute.  How these two break through each other's shells and intertwine their hearts dominates the storyline.  But along the way we encounter deeply guarded secrets in both of them that are gradually unveiled until the true trial of loving is presented.<br />Winter weaves this strange tale with grace and a strong afinity for nature.  At times his poetry about sunrises and sunsets rhapsodizes a bit excessively, but again, this is part of the burgeoning spiritual awakening that drives steadily through the book to the final page.  He creates believable supporting characters, allows the crudeness of the world outside the realm of the main characters to intrude,  and introduces at least one character who seems palpably real (Nichole/Nick - a transgendered man becoming a woman ) evaporate into the air, never allowing us to know why she existed or where she went.<br />But these asides are insignificant criticisms and may even alter with second readings of this beautiful book.  Winter clearly has enormous talent and imagination and the tools to take us with him on his tender and tenuous journeys.  This is a book to read slowly, with patience and caring, knowing that in the end the time spent between the beautifull designed covers will be well rewarded.  A fine debut novel!man becoming a woman ) evaporate into the air, never allowing us to know why she existed or where she went.<br />But these asides are insignificant criticisms and may even alter with second readings of this beautiful book.  Winter clearly has enormous talent and imagination and the tools to take us with him on his tender and tenuous journeys.  This is a book to read slowly, with patience and caring, knowing that in the end the time spent between the beautifull designed covers will be well rewarded.  A fine debut novel!	2002-09-30
1396452:US	52496677	R1WGCRTY1LVHGT	0944092845	217173058	The Architect's Brother	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Indefatigable Dreams of Ordinary Men	THE ARCHITECT'S BROTHER is one of the most beautiful monographs of photography to be released in years. These 'constructions' created by the husband/wife team under the name of Robert ParkeHarrison meld painting, sculpture, stage props, photo-manipulation, collages of natural debris, and megatons of inspired genius to create staged photomontages that are at times amusing, melancholic, wistful, and spiritualy uplifting.  Speaking to the earth through a huge megaphone made of bark, anchoring clouds, flying suspended by lassoed birds - let your imagination take you there.  The quality of the book is up to the luxurious standard of format of Twin Palms Press.  There is an added three brief pages of comment in the form a quotaton by W.S. Merwin entitled 'Unchopping a Tree' which is what this entire collection is about - man's attempt to mimic nature....and the sweet sadness of the knowledge that he can't.	2002-09-26
1396594:US	52496677	RPBFP9W64XLPK	0345450280	210195387	A Breath of Fresh Air	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	An inspirational breath of fresh air	During the past few years we have seen an increasing number of fine novels by Indian writers and A BREATH OF FRESH AIR by new writer Amulya Malladi ranks with the best of them.  Perhaps the wonder of reading about a culture that has always been enigmatic and exotic is part of the draw.  Books like Manil Suri's accalimed THE DEATH OF VISHNU contained much of the atmosphere of India.  In the hands of Ms. Malladi, India is a formidable backdrop to the 'complexly simple' tale she relates about first love in all its oblivious blindness, the decisions we make and the milieu in which we make them, and the inevitable journey such decisions develop.  This is a story, beautifully told in the simplest of language without the cluttering adornments of extended artifice of place, about an Indian girl who marries for the wrong reasons, discovers her error in judgment, and has the courage to change it.  The permutations of that simple triad extend all the way into her subsequent life as a divorced woman in a country where that state of being approaches being a leper, her near-death experience during the infamous Union Carbide gas leak disaster, her second marriage to a simple teacher, the birth of her only child altered by her exposure to the poisonous gas trauma, her tribulations with her parents who place social correctness above individual love, and the eventual loss of her son.  Malladi uses a finely tuned manner in which to relate this story.  Divided into chapters that bear the names of each of the three main characters, she allows the novel to unfold from the perspectives of each of these people, and in doing so she gives us a set of characters so well-defined that we know we'll recognize them on the street.<br />This is not a monumental work (it is a brief 214 pages easily read in an evening), but the impact of Malladi's writing spills over into social, political, spiritual and psychological avenues, each of which is well served by this amazingly fresh first novel.  Recommended.nded.	2002-09-26
1398731:US	52496677	R32IJ94MXIFNWT	0789306786	725348023	Thomas Eakins : The Absolute Male	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Credibility of Observation Unveiled	THOMAS EAKINS: THE ABSOLUTE MALE is a beautifully assembled volume of the photographs and paintings of America's premiere artist.  The concept behind this very fine volume is to emphasize the importance of the strong-willed pioneer of figurative art in a time when the country was in the throws of Victorianism in art (have things changed in over a century?).  In his short but fine essay John Esten simply outlines the chronology of Eakins career and then lets the works speak for themselves.  Eakins trained both in America and in Paris, in the latter with the artist Gerome who insisted on classical perfection in his depictions of the human figure. This attitude rankled Eakins who believed that anything less than the observed representation of the body made it ugly.  \\"I see no impropriety in looking at the most beautiful of Nature's works, the naked figure.\\" And with that he absorbed all the good in the classes in Paris (which included the first use of photography in providing reference for drawing and painting) and returned to America where he resumed his sportsman activities,  all the while using his observing eye to reclaim the beauty of the human form in action. His photographs are now considered some of the finest wroks of their kind. He worked with the famous Muybridge, adopting his  technique of serial photography to study the nude male form. When he returned to teaching at the Philadelphia Academy he insisted on allowing fully nude models to pose for the students. His defiance of the mores of the day in requiring that the women students be given equality in this aspect of his Life Studies courses resulted in his dismissal as a teacher, but added to his importance as a mentor.<br />This excellent book includes Eakins many photographs of the nude male, posed and at play and sport.  Where applicable the photograph used as a reference is displayed adjacent to the subsequent canvas.  Here is the most singularly bold and creative presentation to the age-old, cloaked secret that artists should not use photographs as reference if they say they 'draw only from the figure'. If ever there existed an homage to the marriage of the photograph with painting it is here.  This is a very fine book, worth placing in all libraries both private and public.ecret that artists should not use photographs as reference if they say they 'draw only from the figure'. If ever there existed an homage to the marriage of the photograph with painting it is here.  This is a very fine book, worth placing in all libraries both private and public.	2002-09-24
1399380:US	52496677	R1CLA11U8Y2NIP	3823803654	553943772	Wilhelm Von Gloeden: Taormina	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An indispensible volume for the art of photography library	For over a century the art photographs of Wilhelm von Gloeden (1856 - 1931) have been admired and collected, maligned and banned, and have generally been a landmark in the study of the male nude in art.  This small (in size) volume of the artist's photographs represent all the photos taken in Taormina, Sicily, a near mythical spot where artsits have flocked for many years.  von Gloeden originally moved to Taormina on physician's orders, leaving his homeland of Prussia and his successful career as an actor for the warmer, healthier climes of Sicily.  While there he gradually converted his home into a backdrop where he could use his camera to captured Scilian youths in staged, classical poses - an homage to Greek and Roman myths and times.<br />This book is graced by a fine preface written by Ulrich Pohlmann, a terse essay which surveys the artist's life and makes a fine argument for the includion of von Gloeden's photograhs in the museums of the world.  And then come the actual jewels - sepia toned moments of classicism using the working class Scilian youths for his Golden Mean models.  Many of the photographs very comfortably present full frontal nudity of these young men and with the sexual revolution of the 1960's these photogrpahs abounded in books and calendars in support of the New Male Image.  But for whatever reason history will alter their use, these beautiful creations are true milestones in figurative photography.  It is a joy to have this collection available in its entirety.	2002-09-24
1400324:US	52496677	R2DBSO6INKR5KV	0375507876	530438268	Prague: A Novel	Books	5	7	14	N	Y	An auspicious debut novel	PRAGUE: A Novel is engendering so much polarization in critiques that for a first novel the author should feel gratified that readers have noticed his appearance on the literary scene.  This book can be taken on many levels - an anatomical dissection of the 'Generation X', a treatise on the impact of the fall of the Berlin Wall on the personality of the Eastern European Bloc, a careful exploration of the vacuous brains that the laundering by the media has created, and a humorous  and simultaneously terrifying expose on the state of human relationships during the past decade. Phillips displays a fine grasp of atmospheric painting of Budapest nascently nervous as Communism exited and Capitalism entered.  He is able to create the essence of natural phenomena like mists, and rain, and night and decay and seasonal alterations of the physical and spiritual world, writing with the acuity of a journalist which he is. He knows how to write and manipulate languages ['Plastically handsome and weekly coiffed, he stepped aside, weakly coughed, and allowed his boss to enter the cramped luxury enclave first.'] He has obvious witness to the conundrum that faced the world's Eastern bloc when the Berlin Wall fell ['A permanent institution is composed of impermanent humans, and each of them must contribute their very souls, their impermanent and unimportant lives, if the institution is to preserve its immortality.  This is true of a nation as much as a business.']  and ['The real and worst tragedy of twentieth-century Eastern Europeans: They had known they were old-fashioned before they could do anything about it.  Their politics, their culture, their technology, their lives were out-of-date, no problem as long as they didn't know, but they knew.']<br />Phillips uses this carefully constructed stage as a proscenium for introducing his five expatriated (from the US and Canada) 20-something characters - the Generation X people about whom we care very little until the book propels the story nearly to the end. The novel is an intertwining of the lives of these vacuous people, young men and women searching for a past in a newly emancipated Budapest while escaping from the genetic pasts that propelled them together to play such tedious games as Sincerity, whiling away time at coffee bars, night clubs, and empty streets. 'Five young expatriates hunch around an undersized cafe table: a moment of total insignificance, and not without a powerful whiff of cliche.'  Here lies the problem with this book that seems to alienate readers.  Almost without exception there is very little to like about this crowd other than the people they separtely and conjugally encounter: a wonderful old and elegant woman who plays bar piano in a Blues Club, an over-the-edge conceptual artist who serves as a tenuous love interest, and a enigmatic elderly Hungarian publicist who seems to retain the dignity of having actually &quot;lived&quot; a history.<br />In many ways this very beautifully written book is a panoply of metaphors: take any aspect of his description of Budapest, of the obsession by the characters to actually be in Prague (the true important center of change they all seek), the approach/avoidance tone of relationships, the ponderously slow demise of a familial business being usurped into Capitalism, the equally ponderous searching for identity not only in Budapest but in life  - any of these can easily form a line to follow this novel and make it the readers own.  If this book bogs down, becomes boring, seems tedious, then think carefully how wise this author is.  He has successfully pulled us into the moment of his creation.<br />This is a tough read.  The rewards of having stayed with it are significant:  just go back and read Part One Chapter Two after you finish this book and you will discover in quiet retrospect how significant this book really is.story nearly to the end. The novel is an intertwining of the lives of these vacuous people, young men and women searching for a past in a newly emancipated Budapest while escaping from the genetic pasts that propelled them together to play such tedious games as Sincerity, whiling away time at coffee bars, night clubs, and empty streets. 'Five young expatriates hunch around an undersized cafe table: a moment of total insignificance, and not without a powerful whiff of cliche.'  Here lies the problem with this book that seems to alienate readers.  Almost without exception there is very little to like about this crowd other than the people they separtely and conjugally encounter: a wonderful old and elegant woman who plays bar piano in a Blues Club, an over-the-edge conceptual artist who serves as a tenuous love interest, and a enigmatic elderly Hungarian publicist who seems to retain the dignity of having actually &quot;lived&quot; a history. <br />In many ways this very beautifully written book is a panoply of metaphors: take any aspect of his description of Budapest, of the obsession by the characters to actually be in Prague (the true important center of change they all seek), the approach/avoidance tone of relationships, the ponderously slow demise of a familial business being usurped into Capitalism, the equally ponderous searching for identity not only in Budapest but in life  - any of these can easily form a line to follow this novel and make it the readers own.  If this book bogs down, becomes boring, seems tedious, then think carefully how wise this author is.  He has successfully pulled us into the moment of his creation.<br />This is a tough read.  The rewards of having stayed with it are significant:  just go back and read Part One Chapter Two after you finish this book and you will discover in quiet retrospect how significant this book really is.	2002-09-23
1402906:US	52496677	R2G7HDP4O7RRC1	1580084168	646098066	Afghanistan: A Russian Soldier's Story	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A Powerfully Sincere Indictment Against War	Vladislav Tamarov served in the Soviet War in Afghanistan in 1984 and 1985.  The experience was devastating, the same devastation that has murdered the bodies, minds, and souls of countless soldiers for centuries.  In an attempt to shout out against War in general, Tamarov has written a journal lavishly interspersing his terse words with photographs - not great artistic depictions of battles or of atmospheres in a foreign land, but photos of his friends who at ages 18 - 20 years were thrown by their government into a land aginst which they had no personal vendetta or political musings.  This journal is a paeon to survival, enlisting our hearts to realize that war, any war, and no matter on which side of the no-man's land you stand, war is only about survival.  Kill in order not to be killed. Tamarov does not believe in any of the military/political platitudes that are supposed to justify murdering another people.  His heart is filled with pity and remorse at having even been in Afghanistan as a soldier.<br />So much can we learn from this book.  Would that it would be required reading for every highschool student, every young person who faces the possibility of conscription.  Those of us who have spent time in America's wars whether [with me] in Vietnam, or in Korea or Europe or the Middle East can only shed tears of shared memories while reading this emotional book.  Maybe with time enough voices such as that of Vladislav Tamarov will create a chorus loud enough to descry war of any kind. Until that time we stand in quiet unison behind those with the bravery of Tamarov to speak the truth.  Most especially now....	2002-09-20
1405119:US	52496677	R91D1JG7L1J7J	0151189781	320895570	T. S. Eliot: Collected Poems, 1909-1962 (The Centenary Edition)	Books	5	70	72	N	N	Return to the Source	Every now and then certain turns of phrase or glimpses of landscapes in special light or just buried memories of poetic lines surface and send us back to the source for more.  So often that source for this reader is TS Eliot and encountering this wondrous collection of his poems written between 1909 and 1962 reinforces the power of this great man of letters.  This collection includes the major poems, those works that impacted our philosophy and our art in ways we are only now beginning to appreciate.  From the ever fresh LOVE SONG OF J.ALFRED PRUFROCK &quot;I grow old...I grow old.../I shall wear the bottoms of my trousers rolled&quot; and &quot;We have lingered in the chambers of the sea/By sea-girls wreathed with seaweed red and brown/Till human voices wake us, and we drown.&quot;) to the great FOUR QUARTETS (&quot;In my beginning is my end&quot;), this poet rattled the universe and simultaneously whispered solace in our ears like few others have done.  While my own energies are always looking for the new in poets and in writers, finding that the throne of literature has never been so sought after, I am deeply moved by returning to the masters, the source of it all.  This is a fine collection for the Eliot devotees as well as for those who seek to appreciate the great voices of literature. Here are savoury moments in abundance!	2002-09-18
1407458:US	52496677	R1GZOKRR0RUCEV	0670882305	938794795	James Joyce (Penguin Lives Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Joycean Primer	As is almost consistently the case, the series of biographies produced under the collection of Penguin Lives has once again succeeded in providing a palatable doorway through which the hungry but busy reader can find the substance of an important if historically tough writer or artist.  Edna O'Brien, herself an accomplished writer, here provides us with a fellow Irishman's view of the incredibly important writer James Joyce.  Though most of us have at least read his 'Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man' and have seen plays and film adaptations of some of his other works, few of us feel we understand this complexly brilliant mind enough to say that approaching 'Ulysses' or 'Finnegan's Wake' would be easy reading.  O'Brien gives us not only the chronology of Joyce's life, she also picks up on individual instances in his youth and manhood that served as fodder for his detailed novels of his Irish heritage.  The writing is brisk, acerbic, challenging, and ultimately rewardingly educational.  Finish this brief history and you most probably will run to the book shelf for another go at the master!	2002-09-16
1407667:US	52496677	RCG46Q9HIMM64	0520217381	385515202	The Quick and the Dead: Artists and Anatomy	Books	5	5	6	N	N	From the inside to the 'in'-side	Gross Anatomy has always sounded to the lay public as some kind of perjorative about what medical students due, what pornographers do, and what artists perch above the cadaver to represent.  Actually nothing could be further from the truth.  For centuries artists and scientists have been joined at the hip - witness Vesalius and his immaculate engravings of the musculature and skeltons of the dissected bodies obtained by grave robbers under the umbrella of education.  In this superbly written and illustrated volume Deanna Petherbridge and Ludmilla Jordanova have gleaned some of the finest examples of the study and representation of the human body resulting from this still ongoing duplicity between anatomists/physicians and artists.  The journey here is well documented from the earliest forms to the latest depictions of how intensive visual and manual dissection of the human body has contributed to some of the finest art in the world.  Bravo to the authors for opening a door to the lay public to once and for all subsume the negative implications of the term Gross Anatomy.  Superb book!	2002-09-16
1409758:US	52496677	R12DW3UVJDFXGF	0198600127	22756656	The Oxford History of Western Art	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A step beyond the usual	Why should any art afficiando purchase yet another &quot;History of Western Art&quot; book? Answer: Because this one is thoughtful and user friendly.  Yes, electing to present the entire history of Western Art is daunting and often borders on stuffy: Martin Kemp has wisely recodified the presentation to maintain the flow of chronolgy but to this flow he adds the refreshing idea of grouping paintings into similar examples of each period, the effect of which provides entertaining and eye-opening disclosures that have not been readily available prior to this volume.  Example:  In a section on the Era of Revolution 1770 - 1914 he groups paintings into categories such as 'Romantic Quandries'  showing Goya's &quot;Third of May, 1808&quot; with Turner's &quot;Snow Storm: Hannibal Crossing the Alps&quot; and Gericault's &quot;The Raft of Medusa&quot; - combining a study not only of politial content but also of variations in landscape and figure painting. 'Disquieting Images' pairs Goya's &quot;Fire&quot; with Gericault's &quot;Severed Limbs&quot;.  At the end of this section of the book Kemp gifts us with photographic visions through the stereoptican and progresses through Julia Margaret Cameron's &quot;Lancelot and Guinevere&quot; to Alfred Stieglitz.  He ends this beautifully and generously illustrated volume with a fine Chronology pairing artistic events with concurrent events in that time's contemporary world.  The book is thorough enough to accompany any art student's passage through the academy, but more important this History is a quick reference, elegantly detailed, to refresh each of us when we encounter that newly uncovered masterpiece in the museums and magazines.  Excellent.	2002-09-13
1415992:US	52496677	R8H1AQQHUWA6X	0375420908	875097955	Flights of Love: Stories	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Promises met	Bernhard Schlink created a devoted following with the translation of his first novel THE READER. Opinion was divided among critics and readers as to whether or not this author was playing on simplistic heart-string tuggings or whether he really had somthing new to say and an equal talent to say it.  Being part of the camp of readers who were caught up in the story of 'The Reader' and waited eagerly to see just where this writer would/could go, I am happy to say that FLIGHTS OF LOVE is substantial proof that Schlink is a very fine storyteller.  This book of seven short stories, while a bit uneven, at least shows that the author can relate tales of interest, of introspection, of intrique, and in general can keep his reader flowing with his thoughts to the somewhat open-ended conclusions.  \\"The Other Man\\" is deftly told and has much more of a universal appeal than the isolated story would indicate. 'Girl with Lizard' is a mesmerizing tale based on a man's relationship to a painting! One of the unifying elements in Schlink's creative mind is examining how internalized perceptions, when maintained in the prison of an individual's mind, can alter the manner in which we live through relationships, ways that could have been more constructive had communication of these altered perceptions occurred. Sounds simple, but the way Schlink uses this tool to alter his characters reaction to not only each other but to everyone and everything in their lives is touching and rings true.  If at times his writing seems detached or cold, I wonder how much of that is due to the fact that we are reading translations.  Despite any of the negative points mentioned, here is a collection of short stories that merit attention and make us eager for the next full scale novel to come along.	2002-09-08
1416057:US	52496677	R3ACAZ49KBK4RD	0375504850	640272356	After Nature	Books	5	35	36	N	N	A Remarkable Epitaph	The literary world stil mourns the too early passing of W.G. Sebald, who died just as his fertile mind was being shared with us through his four novels.  Few people who experienced the power of his talent in reading 'The Emmigrants', 'Vertigo', 'The Rings of Saturn\\", and his final 'Austerlitz' have been able to reconcile the loss of a man so gifted having his career so shortened.  Sebald is a writer's writer but his book, while dense in content and style, spoke so clearly to our generation beseiged by media madness, global wars, terrorism, starvation, and mutilation of the environment that turning to his unique form of writing provided a great solace.  He asked us to explore the mysteries of birth, of death, of aging, of remembering and honoring our personal and cultural past.  Now, after his death, we are gifted by this amazingly beautiful volume of three poems he wrote at the inception of his writing career.  Knowing that these elegant and brilliant poems have been available all these years - just not translated - brings the circle of life round in a way I feel certain Sebald would have enjoyed.<br />The poems are in free verse and read easily; the content is typical of Sebald, in that he relates detailed histories of painter Matthias Gruenwald, botanist Georg Stellar, and himself - each man being described as one who explores life from his passion to understand his past and future and find meaning and peace at its core.  Rarely has language appeared so fluid, elegant, informative and lovely as in Sebald's informed hands.  This is a book to savour and to share........a magnificent volume.	2002-09-08
1416242:US	52496677	R2GF1AYOJFUO4M	1928791301	446412847	The Boy Who Invented Television: A Story of Inspiration, Persistence and Quiet Passion	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Timely, Richly Written Biography	Paul Schatzkin may have spent longer researching the subject of this fine new biography of Philo T. Farnsworth than any other single writer.  He has spent years of intensive research, finessing all the data and finally producing one of the more entertaining yet fully factual stories of a relatively uncelebrated man.  Philo Farnsworth very quietly invented Television, and while much intrique and quasi-scandal surrounds the facts of this 20th century giant, Farnsworth is finally gaining the recognition he deserves for his miraculous invention.  The author allows the story of his hero to unfold simply and without brouhaha, introducing this strange young inventor in a way that fully suits his life style.  There is much to be learned here about the very physics and technical aspects of the miracle of television - how the idea was born, tested, then all but stolen.  We come away from this fine book with a sense of the underdog genius who represents the finest aspect of 'The American Dream' and Schatzkin aptly subtitles his book 'A Story of Inspiration, Persistence, and Quiet Passion.'  That about says it all.  A must read for curious minds who thought they could never understand how television works.	2002-09-07
1419630:US	52496677	R3IJGZ9Y86MR5I	0741408430	948057118	Writing the Artist Statement	Books	5	32	38	N	N	A Superb Addition to the Artist's and Art Lover's Library	Ariane Goodwin is to be commended for tackling the improbable and previously impossible task of aiding visual artists in breaking the fear barrier of writing the ubiquitous Artist Statement.  This exceedingly well written manual has the wisdom to begin with discussing just why the artist statement is a valid tool in bringing artists of every kind to the highest professional level.  Goodwin knows all too well the negative view held by most artists that \\"If the viewer doesn't understand my work by looking at it, then why should I have to explain it in words?\\"  In a warm, supporting manner Goodwin proceeds to remove all the negative aura of using words to express the inner, soulful approach to art that many artists fear sharing for whatever reason.  She maintains that words are the tools of language, our means of expression, and that when artists overcome the fear of putting their 'private selves' into the written word, their own windows of exploration open and they are empowered to create better art because they are able to discourse with the outside world what heretofore was the inner sanctum labelled 'creativity'.  Goodwin is a fine teacher (she holds a doctorate in Human Development & Creative Behavior and teaches at Loveland Academy of Fine Arts, giving workshops for artists and even advises through her website ...and much of this book is a tightly composed course on teaching her methods of learning to write artist statements for the beginning and the seasoned artist.<br />But another aspect of this book that may just go unnoticed is the value of Goodwin's theories about the artist's psyche that is bound to be helpful to gallery owners, artist's representatives, and the collecting public at large.  We are exposed in a most supportive way to the minds of creative people, why they find it difficult to discuss their gifts, put words to feelings and visual responses, and why they find it difficult to meet the public at Artist Receptions for their work or to answer interviewers questions for the media in all forms.  This is where this 'self-help' book advances beyond a mere tool and instead becomes a thoughtful, thought-provoking treatise on Creativity.  Ariane Goodwin has succeeded where few have even ventured: she anchors the bridge between the artist and the viewer without any of the pompous pitfalls of other teachers (read 'frustrated artists').  This book is bound to be an invaluable text for all art schools, liberal arts schools, artists in every field of making art, gallery owners, writers, and art collectors.  Brava!erviewers questions for the media in all forms.  This is where this 'self-help' book advances beyond a mere tool and instead becomes a thoughtful, thought-provoking treatise on Creativity.  Ariane Goodwin has succeeded where few have even ventured: she anchors the bridge between the artist and the viewer without any of the pompous pitfalls of other teachers (read 'frustrated artists').  This book is bound to be an invaluable text for all art schools, liberal arts schools, artists in every field of making art, gallery owners, writers, and art collectors.  Brava!	2002-09-04
1420444:US	52496677	RFWM945OZBMDI	0971778973	188014364	The Prayer of Hannah	Books	4	7	13	N	N	Food for thought	Kenn Gividen has essentially given us the written form of a sermon about the power of prayer. In this modest little book we have the simple approach to understanding the concept of faith that provides fundamentalist Christians with the power to change their lives. Reading 'The Prayer Of Hannah' is similar in motivation as many of the Self Help books on the shelves. The surprising feature of this book is that what seems de rigueur contemporary psychology is really quite the same as the 'old time religion' - and that says alot about our understanding of each other. Whether the messages come from group therapy sessions, Eastern philosophy meditation, or from a return to the literal interpretation of the Bible, the trigger for inner growth may vary but the goals are the same. This book should appeal to a wide audience looking for a bedside guide to spiritual growth. The writing is simple but excessively referenced to chapters and verses in the Bible as though those references were necessary to justify the message. Better to just read this as one man's humble way of explaining his faith in prayer.	2002-09-03
1421424:US	52496677	R1ZQ2O7FE0QO8G	0312266936	497130324	What the Lotus Said: A Journey to Tibet and Back	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Notes from a Fellow Traveler	Eric Swanson has written a dialogue about his quest for understanding the spiritual life.  This is not a treatise on Eastern religion nor is it meant to be.  This very well written little book asks us as friends to learn the lessons of arriving at critical moments in our lives, that those moments are pregnant with the possibility for change, and that this journal is one man's notebook on encountering a more meaningful existence.  There is much to be learned here - about the humor that accompanies the most serious of engagements, the human foibles that are shared by all cultures, but also the vast unknown differences between Eastern and Western thought.  Swanson's journey to Tibet and China is one of humor, of frustration, and one of finding how self can only be understood in the context of the greater idea of a timeless and formless universe.  Without a page of preaching we learn a lot about Buddhist philosphy,  ancient history of China and Tibet, and about the order of the lama system of enlightment.  Don't expect a PhD in world religions from this book.  Do expect (and receive) a warm, joyful, tender, and humorous tour through lands and peoples that seem so far away...until now.	2002-09-03
1424645:US	52496677	R2KQCEAQKN3I8S	0375504567	862994848	Pasadena	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Saga Rich and Strange	David Ebershoff has entered the arena of current writers able to carry off The Big Story, his comrades in this arena being Richard Russo, Jocye Carol Oates, Annie Proulx, Cormac McCarthy among others.  PASADENA: A Novel  is epic in length at 500 pages and for those readers who find books of this length daunting, all fear of ennui can be put aside.  Ebershoff knows how to spin a tale and develop branches, twigs and fruit on his basic trunk of an idea that maintain the reader's interest in carefully following the unfolding of this saga of California from the turn of the century to mid 20th century.  Wisely he incorporates all the ethnic groups, the miscegenation, the influx of the Eastern US wealthy into a land of the pioneer spirit and in doing so he successfully defines what exactly makes his chosen locale of Pasadena unique.  The story is about people - men and women who strive for independence and social acceptance simutaneously, who drive their lives through pledges secretly made and just as secretly dismantled, who search for love for all right reasons but settle for less than their ideals, whose lives intertwine with the ever changing permutations of individuality only to come full circle to their own altered origins.<br />The characters Ebershoff creates are wholly three dimensional and do not stray beyond the boundaries of credibilty. Love, longing, lust, lying, and the building and destroying of dreams are on every page.  Bruder, an orphan from an unknown family is seen as trash as a child in Pasadena where the Top 100 percenters or accepted Society members determine the lives of too many people, but becomes the stalwart force that carries this tale of war, of greed, of the 'gold in California' spirit, and ultimately the arrival of the foundations of the freeways and housing developments that have transformed current day Pasadena from its origins as a winter haven for the East Coast wealthy who basked in the glory of the lush landscape of orange groves and the Sierra Madre mountains.  He is a giant of a man, but then he walks among equal giants in the personas of Linda Stamp, her father Dieter, her ultimate husband Willis Poore, and the myriad supporting cast of characters who weave in and out of this unfolding mystery with unflagging stealth. If the critical eye finds that the author at times pushes the descriptive language of the genus/species flora/fauna of his locales (he seems especially bent on informing us of the beginnings of many extant Pasadena families, businesses, and buildings) to the point of excess, then at the same time that eye must admit that few writers are so well researched in all the details that make us secure in the knowledge that this story could be a true tale.<br />Ebershoff is a full-fledged  novelist with the publication of this tome. He is one elegant writer! The promises made in his earlier 'The Danish Girl' and in the tightly detailed 'The Rose City' are not only kept but surpassed.  Here is a man who can spread his wings over a vast canvas and bring home a story that leaves indelible imprints of characters that are difficult to leave behind with the closing of the last page. This book is a worthwhile commitment of your reading time.  Highly Recommended!he Sierra Madre mountains.   He is a giant of a man, but then he walks among equal giants in the personas of Linda Stamp, her father Dieter, her ultimate husband Willis Poore, and the myriad supporting cast of characters who weave in and out of this unfolding mystery with unflagging stealth. If the critical eye finds that the author at times pushes the descriptive language of the genus/species flora/fauna of his locales (he seems especially bent on informing us of the beginnings of many extant Pasadena families, businesses, and buildings) to the point of excess, then at the same time that eye must admit that few writers are so well researched in all the details that make us secure in the knowledge that this story could be a true tale.<br />Ebershoff is a full-fledged  novelist with the publication of this tome. He is one elegant writer! The promises made in his earlier 'The Danish Girl' and in the tightly detailed 'The Rose City' are not only kept but surpassed.  Here is a man who can spread his wings over a vast canvas and bring home a story that leaves indelible imprints of characters that are difficult to leave behind with the closing of the last page. This book is a worthwhile commitment of your reading time.  Highly Recommended!	2002-08-30
1429656:US	52496677	R2H6XNUZ1L0OPD	0810963469	401835661	The Prado Museum: Collection of Paintings	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Magnificent Catalogue of a Magnificent Museum	Rarely have books of the nature of &quot;Museum Collection&quot; catalogues been so lavishly produced as THE PRADO MUSEUM published by Abrams in 1997.  The sheer size of this tome and the expense have probably put off some art lovers, but this is not a book to let slip into obscurity.  The organiztion of the book matches the layout of the museum: artists are treated to individual sections where there works can be most appreciated like the condensed  spaces of adjoining rooms in the museum itself and each is treated by essayists who know the works and thankfully know how to write!<br />The reproductions are first class, the number of color plates is astonishing.  For those who have not had the privilege of visiting the Prado Musuem there will be many surprises.  For those who know the art of Spain already, there will be embellishments that are enriching to the eye and the mind.  And for those who know the Museum, this book is a must for memory reference.  A brilliantly produced Magnum Opus.	2002-08-25
1432699:US	52496677	RC6A1R1Y27X9U	3861872390	718419236	On the Couch, Vol. 1	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	And now in living color.........	Tom Bianchi has been successfully producing collections of the male nude for some time now and in most bookstores across the country they are the best sellers of any in the genre.  I think there is solid reason for this.  Tom celebrates the male image and does so unabashedly.  While many other fine genre photographers emphasize the composition, the inner beauty, the interaction between the model and the photographer, the case for light and shadow concealing and revealing,  Tom consistently goes for the joy of living, of interacting with friends, the gutsy good humor and good times of just a bunch of men frolicking in the nude.  Refreshing to see.  In ON THE COUCH the setting is consistent - the oft mentioned leather couch which, knowing Tom's sense of humor, is rather an homage to the infamous 'casting couch' or 'therapist's couch.'  All things condisered this is a happy book, filled with beautiful men in rich color.  Reading and revisiting it is a joy.	2002-08-22
1435196:US	52496677	R3N8BQJ1KRMZWW	0192840126	13376649	Aspects of Wagner	Books	5	45	47	N	N	A Concise, Lucid Approach to Richard Wagner	Despite the fact that this book was first published in 1969, it is so well written in such reasonable language that it still stands as one of the most cogent introductions to the genius of Richard Wagner.  The bookstore shelves are full of volumes on the man many consider one of the most important composers ever. But many of those books are biased by quirks of each writer who  preach either a love-him-or-hate-him agenda.  Magee goes to the source, addressing the writings of the composer during his musical hiatus between Lohengrin and the Ring of the Niebelungen, a period  (1848 - 1851) when Wagner withdrew into the works of the great German philosophers and gradually formed his world view of Opera as Drama, or, a religous happening - quite a different stance from the 'Opera as Entertainment' that was the popular consensus of the time. Magee offers translations of Wagner's words that clarify the messages that so often are lost in the verbiage that Wagner labored as he responded to the importance of mythology as a universal language, to Shakespeare as the perfect man of words, to the music of Beethoven as the writer of music that ALMOST didn't need poetry ( even though he granted that Beethoven's 9th Symphony which includes poetry was the gold standard of his time and indeed opened all the Bayreuth Festivals with that Beethoven work before presenting his own operas), and to the writings of Karl Marx, et al.  Magee's essays include notes on the claims of AntiSemitism, on the influence of Wagner on the other artists of his time and after his time, and even on performance standards of his works.  All this, in a book just over 100 pages in length! An invaluable tool for those who want to better understand why Wagner's music continues today to cause such profound emotional responses.  Beautifully  written and informative.	2002-08-20
1438457:US	52496677	R39G9M7HDFZVQY	0810919419	191786066	American Realism	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	The Gold Standard on American Realism Painting	Edward Lucie-Smith's inimitable style of writing endears him to his readers who might just be buying art books for the pictures - the ubiquitous coffeetable book.  His approach to his subject (and his catalogue of published books on art is staggering in scope) is always 'Art first, Opinion second', which is another way of saying that he lets the work describe itself in the sensitive way in which he constructs his books.<br />AMERICAN REALISM is as much a sociological study of the American progress as it is a matrix to etch images that accompany that historical trek.  In his fine introduction he sets the tone for the journey, then addresses early American art and begins his intensive presentation with the works of Thomas Eakins and Winslow Homer.  Subsequent chapters find new insights into American Still Life, the Impressists in America (Cassatt, Sargent, Chase, Hassam), then proceeds on through the Ashcan School, Regionalism (one of the most creative chapters), through the Urban and Social Realism of the likes of Hopper, Marsh, Soyer and Shahn.  Here his style of writing diverges as he addresses the Revolution in American Art, or, what has America made that is uniquely her own.  Of great interest here is his emphasis on painters such as Paul Cadmus, Philip Guston, Jared French, George Tooker, Andrew Wyeth, bringing to their works a sensitivity rarely written prior to this book.  After Abstraction he once again returns to representational art and brings to life Fairfield Porter, Neil Welliver, Jane Freilicher, Larry Rivers, Richard Diebenkorn,Wayne Thiebaud, Chuck Close, John Nava, Alice Neel, Gregory Gillespie, Martha Mayer Erlebacher, Eric Fischl, Leon Golub, and yes, even Jeff Koons.<br />The sparkling and informative dialogue of this book is enhanced by superb reproductions of paintings in both color and black and white.  This book is somewhat dated now, having been published in 1994 and newly released in paperback.  One hopes that Lucie-Smith will write a sequel to this volume and bring the public up to date with the many artists who belong in this company, artists - like Wes Hempel, Gerard Huber, Michael Workman, Wade Reynolds, James Doolin, Willaim Fogg, Robert Peterson, Daniel Sprick..........and of course countless others.  A 'must have' for any solid library.l to this volume and bring the public up to date with the many artists who belong in this company, artists - like Wes Hempel, Gerard Huber, Michael Workman, Wade Reynolds, James Doolin, Willaim Fogg, Robert Peterson, Daniel Sprick..........and of course countless others.  A 'must have' for any solid library.	2002-08-17
1438800:US	52496677	R26I6EBFBW9SXR	0847806480	606559393	Blue Guitar	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Art from Art from Art	THE BLUE GUITAR is one of the most sensitive 'collaborations' or 'appropriations' or 'responsive inspirations' that has been published.  Wallace Stevens wrote THE MAN WITH THE BLUE GUITAR in 1936 as a response to the famous painting by Pablo Picasso called 'The Old Guitarist 1903'.  David Hockney discovered the poem and readdressed the Picasso in 1976 and the result of his encounter resulted in the 20 etchings he created. The work of all three artists is presented in this small book which feels more like a bibliophile edition than a standard text.  No need for explantion or essay or evaluation, this sensitve little tome speaks volumes.  A stunning publication.	2002-08-17
1441048:US	52496677	R1P54RTZQZ7VXE	0609609076	749778108	Land's End: A Walk in Provincetown (Crown Journeys)	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Homespun prose from an elegant voice	LAND'S END should find an audience among travelers who trek as frequently as possible to the inimitable Provincetown, among the poets who reference this quaint bit of yesteryear, and among those who are just magnetized by Michael Cunningham's eloquent writing. The subtitle &quot;A Walk Through Provincetown&quot; sets the tone of this little treasure book as Cunningham maintains a warmly generous spirit in sharing every aspect of what makes PTown unique.  For those of us who have spent vacations there we are allowed the insiders' view of how we transients are perceived.  There is much humor here, not of the malicious kind but rather of the droll New England style.  Cunningham is able to describe the physical beauty of the Cape like a painter, and at the same time he interjects the gossip of the small town to ground us in this survey of life in a different clime.  There is history here, and there are poems by friends of the author whose visions heighten the pleasure of the journal.  This is a wonderful read related by a sensitive and, of course, immensely gifted writer.  After reading LAND'S END you will feel as though you've been there........or possibly plan to go.  Highly recommended little book.	2002-08-15
1446498:US	52496677	R32G3IZNA62HWF	0767912357	574332407	Ciao, America!: An Italian Discovers the U.S.	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Ciao Bella!	At first reading of the first chapters, each named for a month of the one year of transplanted residence of the author and his wife from Crema, Italy to the Georgetown suburb of Washington, DC, the laughs come so readily that the beauty of the message seems secondary.  Beppe Severgnini relates his encounters with &quot;America&quot; with such finesse that it is jolting to realize that we are reading a translation (kudos to Giles Watson for his inherent understanding of aphoristic Italian!) instead of hearing the author just speak to us.  Once the comedic vein is established, then we are able to thoroughly enjoy laughing at our own American foibles.  What a bizarre culture we have when mirrored through the eyes of so astute an observor.  This is  a terrific little book to pass along to friends who are about to embark on a European sojourn....or better yet,  to share with new neighbors on your block who are recent imports to our crazy country.  Much to be enjoyed here: more to be learned about ourselves.  A fine summer read.	2002-08-09
1447301:US	52496677	R16BYAI4ZIO7OA	0964540290	850961903	Poison-Pen Personnel-Portrait Portfolio	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Higher Education Puzzles and Pundits	For all of those who have survived college, grad school, interviews for teaching positions, and for everyone who has ever even frustratedly browsed through a catalogue published by a center of higher learning, this book is a must!  Brian Kevin Beck emerges as a satirist par excellence in this hilarious but acerbic collecton of definitions, interviews, witicisms, and other madness issues that place many things in perspective.  The design of the book is a bit off-putting, although once you've mastered how to read it, the format enhances the rollercoaster ride of fun.  A welcome addition to satirist literature.	2002-08-09
1450848:US	52496677	R112FPFP3905ZR	0971468605	469315974	Lovers' Legends: The Gay Greek Myths	Books	5	43	47	N	N	A Courageous, Scholarly, Thoroughly Entertaining Book	Hats off to Andrew Calimach!  For the past century writers, poets, mythologists, historians and the public at large have  either ignored the sexual overtones of Greek myths and history, or have distorted or attacked this valuable body of information to mold their own prejudices.  This can be said for those who overplay the significance of the homoerotic aspect of myths as well as those who debunk it as gay delusions of grandeur.  In readdressing nine important and 'well-known' stories with fresh insight and with fine scholarly technique, Calimach gives us as clear an interpretation of these foundations of civilzation as can be found.  His introduction to the concept of myths is succinct and illuminating.  He wisely threads his tales with a debate  (Lucian's 'Different Loves') that places his reassembled fragments of myths as narrative, thus giving a sense of timelessness of reference to his subject.  Scholars and psychologists and philosophers and theologians and gender studies veterans have argued their perspectives ad infinitum.  Calimach has the good graces to simply piece together all the varying fragments of information about these nine myths and presents this reconstruction for us to interpret.  No preaching here, just a request for open minds, for acknowledging the fact that love between males can be documented as timeless.<br />My only reservations with the texts is in the language of their presentation.  Part of the word choices are intended to make the stories more updated in language (much like the new version of the Bible as opposed to the King James version).  At times, however, he resorts to slang which can cause an 'aha!' reaction to readers searching to disprove his facts [as in Narcissus: 'what a dish he was', and 'the most gorgeous guy he had ever seen'].  These rare phrases are all the more distracting because of the generally eloquent and elegant writing style of the book in general.  But this is a small criticism in what is destined to become a permanent volume of all librairies.  Excellent reading, a fine work of research, and a much needed resource book for writers, students, historians, and for those who are looking for an enriching and worthwhile book on the Greeks.  An excellent read and a satisfying moment of edification.permanent volume of all librairies.  Excellent reading, a fine work of research, and a much needed resource book for writers, students, historians, and for those who are looking for an enriching and worthwhile book on the Greeks.  An excellent read and a satisfying moment of edification.	2002-08-06
1454170:US	52496677	R581SMDIIL5MJ	0714530719	497984302	Waiting Period	Books	2	3	5	N	Y	Unique  but  heavy handed	Hubert Selby Jr has a style all his own.  Sometimes it works, sometimes it seems like art imitating art.  In his most recent book WAITING PERIOD, Selby constructs a 200 page story entirely based on interior monologue.  There is action except in the mind of the narrator, a character who has about as much charisma as a putrifying egg.  But that's the point, I think, that we are placed inside the mind of a misfit who seeks to resolve his victim role in life (after rejecting the plan of suicide)  by killing those people who represent the bureaucracy of America.  For example, his first victim is a benefits counselor at the VA hospital who refuses our narrator his benefits. When Selby infrequently steps out of the monolgue into a Greek Chorus moment of commentary we hear &quot;...a sacred plea from the man as he experiences the anguish of the human condition.  Have you not seen it everywhere, most especially within yourself? It is simply part of the dilemma............he is but a man.&quot;<br />Reading this book can become boring and repulsive unless you take it in small bits.  But again, I think this is the genius of Selby, for what are our minds when they go sour if not grounded by an intermittent dose of reality?  WAITING PERIOD refers not only to the time between purchasing a gun and being able to use it: that PERIOD can also represent the time from the inception of a foul thought to the premeditated acting out.  And if you've the stomach for that then this book will excite you. A well written experiment with words that is perhaps just too frightening to admit that even our own minds can conjure such tales!	2002-08-02
1454309:US	52496677	R176F90LNU4T2F	1582430357	64456713	Objects on a Table : Harmonious Disarray in Art and Literature	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Found Treasure	Whatever reason guides our quest for information to discover small treasures, the rewards of finding writing as quiet and yet celebratory as Guy Davenport's OBJECTS ON A TABLE are immeasurable. This small volume of four essays on the intransigence of Still Life paintings and their concommitant relationship to music, philosophy, literature, history, poetry, and simply Life is satisfying on every level.  While the art world strains to design the NEW trends/schools/movements that will incite or induce controversy and a step toward the now ubiquitous Warhol 15 minutes of fame, writers and lecturers such as Davenport (and Mark Doty, Norbert Schneider, et al) offer solace in the simplicity of beckoning quietly toward the centuries old yet very much extant art of the painted Still Life.  Meditations on the significance of baskets of fruit, on 'memento mori', on non-visual artists who attempt to capture the simplicity inherent in the Still Life spill over the pages of this beautiful little book, and in doing so enhance our vision of the world about us.  The writing here is superb, the pleasures of pausing to read solitarily the thoughts of a writer so well informed about so many issues makes this small volume a fine addition to the thinkers' librairies.  Beautiful!	2002-08-02
1454608:US	52496677	R1AT0KW2I9HU2A	1873362641	390020307	British Figurative Art: Painting, the Human Figure (Pt. 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	An Interesting Overview	BRITISH FIGURATIVE ART is basically a catalogue for an exhibition and as such there is a bit more curatorial edge than other surveys of current figurative painting.  The British have always taken the lead in representing the Figure so it is with much interest that we get a look at what the new painters are doing.  Not all of the painters are youngsters - there is a good smattering of the old guard like Kitaj, Hockney, Auerbach, Freud, and Weight to name a few.  But the interesting contributors to this show/book are Jenny Saville, Peter Blake, John Wonnacott, Alison Watt, Euan Uglow, Celia Paul, John Kirby, Ken Currie, and Humphrey Ocean among some others who retain the figure intact but push the edge to keep the painting fresh while fairly traditional.  The accompanying essay is mostly opinion rather than evaluation, but the writer enhances our looking at the few artists he describes.<br />British Art continues to amaze and set trends and this monograph certainly proves why.	2002-08-02
1454898:US	52496677	R15YG6EZR8ODAH	1858940591	160221624	When Time Began to Rant and Rage: Figurative Painting from Twentieth-Century Ireland	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Quintessential Ireland!	This very sophisticated book is far more than the accompanying catalogue for a travelling exhibition by Irish artists that took place in 1998 -1999.  Ireland is a country steeped in artistic tradition though most of us know that tradition in the guise of literature, poetry, and drama instead of painting. James Joyce, Oscar Wilde, W.B. Yeats, J.M. Synge, O'Casey, Seamus Heaney, and the McCourts to just tickle the surface. The wise editor Steward opens this volume with a thoroughly entertaining and informing essay 'The Irishness of Irish Painting' and then has the good graces to turn over the remainder of the written half of this book to fine essayists who write about 'Politics', 'Jack Yeats and the Making of Irish Art in the Twentieth Century', 'Irish Women Painters and the Introduction of Modernism',  and 'Madonna and Maiden, Mistress and Mother: Woman as Symbol of Ireland and Spirit of the Nation'.  All of these ( and there are more!) add a variety of style and perspective to the impressive pictorial catalogue which follows in the second half of this book.  Thus prepared solidly we are free to bask in the beauty of the works by Sir William Orpen, Willaim Leech, Sir John Lavery, Paul Henry, Roderic O'Conor, Jack B. Yeats, Sean Keating, Dermot Seymour, Patrick Graham, Christopher Campbell - the list is very large.  So many of these fine painters are instantly recognizable to the inveterate museum goer, but many do not enjoy the world fame of their contemporaries.  After spending time with this book I think you will wonder why.......  A very fine collecton and well conceived and produced book.	2002-08-02
1457893:US	52496677	R476XLZK1QKV7	1565122518	320531227	Boulevard	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Crazy Quilt of a Book	Jim Grimsley writes well - WINTERBIRDS, COMFORT AND JOY, DREAMBOY all attest to that.  His way with language is sure, his insights into the minds of his variously troubled characters is on target.  For this reader BOULEVARD does not slip into his usual category of novel development.  This novel is more four novellas loosely joined.  Yes, he once again has been able to conjure up a credible, likeable main character in Newell - the too often portrayed kid from the country who enters the city of evil and is consumed by it.  As long as that narrative stays on course this novel reads well, if tired.  It is the suppporting cast that begs question as to relevance.  Instead of being additive to the narrative each of the other characters tends to a story within a story.  Interesting people, yes, but tangential instead of integral.<br />But all novelists are allowed an aside now and then, a different turn similar to an olio act on the old stage, placed as comic relief for serious dramas.  Grimsley does capture a seedy stench of the endless day/night called New Orleans. He understands the South and furthers the Tennessee Williams  flavours.  We all await his next novel,  as surely this outing is just a out-of-town tryout for what he really is capable of writing.	2002-07-30
1461604:US	52496677	R1I2YC0MR9M187	0810963310	237919699	Contemporary Art in Asia: Traditions, Tensions	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Treasure Chest of the Exotic	In 1997 the Asia Society organized and presented a large traveling exhibition that began in New York , traveled to Canada and then to Asia.  The name of the exhibition, as the name of this book, was CONTEMPORARY ART IN ASIA: TRADITIONS/TENSIONS and we have a fine documentation of what must have been an extraordinary show in this sumptious, highly informed book/catalogue.  The art displayed is from India, Indonesia, the Philippines, South Korea, and Thailand. The curatorial thread is one of demonstrating how contemporary work in these very different countries is loosely united in each artist's use of traditional imagery to address contemporary tensions - gender, sexual, political, national, religious, and philosophical.  The book has beautifully concise and erudite essays by writers from each of the cultures and there has rarely been a selection of commentators so well selected.  Then come the visuals and the treats in store for those who do not know Asian art are endless.  Some of the artists are extremely well known: Cho Duck Hyun and Kim Ho-Suk from South Korea, ChatChai Puipia and Navin Rawanchikul from Thailand, Nalini Malani from India, etc.  But the real pleasure of this book is in the discovery of many lesser know, immensely exciting artists whose works are so gripping that the images jump off the page.  The color reproductions are superb and the design of the book is elegant. This leaves us with the hope that the Asia Society will soon again curate another exhibition of this magnitude.  This book is more than a fine art monograph - it is  a fine history and philosophy text, as well.	2002-07-26
1462234:US	52496677	R391H7GIYMR6LM	0525946519	688489875	The Real McCoy	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Sheer Virtuosity!	Darin Strauss is a new writer that is growing more important with each book.  His first novel, CHANG AND ENG, mingled history with fanstasy, seducing us with the bizarre but wholly credible tale of the lives of Siamese twins.  In THE REAL MCCOY he has again demonstrated that he has few peers in the genre of history manipulation in his semi-biographical novel of a midwestern kid who dreamed himself into the champion boxer of the 1900s.  I have never enjoyed the sport of boxing or stories about boxing and it was only my lingering excitement after reading CHANG AND ENG that encouraged me to read this book.  But the surprise is that this is not a biography of a boxer.  This brilliantly written, cativatingly interesting book is about flimflam artists, about the individual's identity in context with his times, about the question of reality versus fantasy.  But even more than that it is a 'documentation' of the idiosyncrasies of this strange country America at the turn of the 19th into the 20th century. Created like a richly painted mural that extends from Indiana to Manhattan, Darin Strauss has sensitively examined this vast melting pot of a nation and in doing so allows us to learn much about our past that makes our present more comprehensible, especially in light of the current globalization of  terror and the dangers of insular misunderstandings.  But as if this book isn't entertaining enough simply on the basis of a contemporary novel, Strauss throws us a curve a la Guy de Maupassant for an ending.  Only after some re-reading of certain important chapters and passages can we as readers appreciate the journey Strayuss has created.<br />To say more would be to diminish the rewards for the prople who have not yet had the privilege of this novel.  Darin Strauss is a meaty, graceful, gifted wordsmith whose every page contains sheer virtuosity.  BRAVO!	2002-07-26
1462454:US	52496677	RZBKB08SNJQCZ	0029273722	957817658	The Complete Printmaker: Techniques, Traditions, Innovations	Books	5	40	43	N	N	Just about definitive	Perhaps the current art market is not so preoccupied with the fine art of printmaking that thrived in the 1980s and 1990s, but the democratization of making available works by artists best known for their unique art will always have a justifuable niche among art collectors of all strata.  This well written and well illustrated volume about the various forms of print making is as fine as they come.  Though centuries old as an art form, &quot;prints&quot; are still looked at as &quot;copies&quot; by the neophytes.  The differences and techniques of etchings, lithographs, sereigraphs, etc are all discussed with great facility.  The examples are very fine.  This should be not only in every art school library, but also in the librairies of fine art collectors who want to really understand what Fine Print Making is all about.	2002-07-26
1465071:US	52496677	R27ORZ70GJANU9	1841952745	404279069	My Loose Thread	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	About being unique	Dennis Cooper is a writer who is creating his own niche in literature.  He is eloquent while being brutal, comprehendable while writing about insanity, tender while describing the most perilous of situations, and a master at living inside the heads of troubled youths.  MY LOOSE THREAD is more like an epic poem in dialogue than it is a novel.  There is story here - grand Guignol story - but the madness of the narrative comes solely through the voices of the participants in this far from normal setting.  And like an epic poem, this story begs to be read in one sitting.  The dialogue is intense but the depth of meaning behind even short phrases requires deep concentration on the part of the reader.<br />Some people may be put off by the style or the subject of this book - Cooper climbs inside the psyches of young gay boys and tries to sort out the confusion and challenges of the real versus the fantasy.  But get past whatever might disturb you about the story and you will be witness to a major talent.  It will be invigorating to read a long novel by this gifted writer.	2002-07-23
1467951:US	52496677	R15MPCT3HX0LJQ	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Good storytelling	Every year, usually in summer, there seems to appear a much heralded new book that everyone rushes to gush over and buy and it becomes a best seller and seems bound for the movies.  This summer's quirky winner is Alice Sebold's THE LOVELY BONES and while it rolls around the country gathering admirers it raises the question of \\"What will the book be a year from now?\\"  Sebold writes well and knows how to maintian interest in her characters, yet I think the main reason this little book is raising attentive eyebrows is its premise that Heaven is a place from which we can look down after death and follow all the paths less taken in life.  The beginning of the novel - a young girl's murder told in descriptive terms that border on maudlin - is a great attention grabber.  Can the dead Susie in Heaven help her disintegrating family rediscover each other as they cope with their loss and strive to find the murderer?  Once the setting is in place, what happens is entertaining to read but not wholly original or especially beautifully composed.  This is a good book, destined to increase the audience for this novelist's work, but the question arises as to her ability to find another gimmick for her next book. OR, does she really need one?  Only a year's time will provide us the answer. Not an Award Winner, but a terrific light read.	2002-07-21
1472440:US	52496677	R13U48ZKKEM462	0854491635	675555088	Luis Caballero: Paintings and Drawings	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another role of the artist	The paintings of Luis Caballero are now in the realm of shrines or altars to the plagues that merged as one in the form of AIDS in the 20th Century.  These paintings and drawings are not grotesque: these works are packed with the immediacy of facing a finite life whether that terminal state is due to disease as in the artist's case or to other horrors such as wars, brutality, homophobia, random acts of violence.  Caballero was a brilliant draughtsman and captured so much movement in his line that the figures, though languishing, still maintain a quality of constant movement.  Edward Lucie-Smith adds his usually fine comments to this monograph.  This is one collection of art that goes beyond just being art to being an homage to the artist's plight.  And isn't that what great art is, afterall?	2002-07-17
1472890:US	52496677	R3UZ0ATB4377C6	0821224387	106969625	Imogen Cunningham: On the Body	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fine Art Photography Finely Presented	The beauty of the works of Imogen Cunningham to this day remain staggering.  Knowing that the photographs are early contributions to the genre of nude photography is even more amazing.  Yes, compared to some of today's art photographers the poses may appear a bit static and stagey, but the quality of composition, of light and shadow, of clarity of vision is still hard to match.  This is an historically important volume and one of great beauty.  The accompanying essay is brief but sensitive and informative.	2002-07-17
1478310:US	52496677	R3F2MI9YK71LIG	0375411682	318932490	The Whore's Child: and Other Stories	Books	5	37	40	N	N	Russo has done it again!	Feet to the fire, short stories often examine an author's ability to get to the core of a tale in a few pages.  Russo is a hugely gifted author whose prior novels (like  the Pulitzer Prize winning EMPIRE FALLS) are lengthy and packed with details that always illuminate every aspect of his characters and stories, but sprawl over the page like a river over the dam.  Almost written (it would seem) to prove that he doesn't need a thick tome to capture his readers' imaginations, Russo here presents seven stories about wholy disparate subjects and manages to bring each tale to rich completion as though he had opened every door instead of just quietly peeking through the windows of the lives of ordinary folk and finding their secrets.<br />The title story is a deft a portrait of a old nun, married to God more by last resort than by preordained commmitment.  In Bouyance we see the results of a long marriage literally on the rocks of an island resort and how the polarities of  a life of misunderstanding can actually find some resolution in a remote and bizarre setting.  Joyride takes us on a Mother/Son journey from Maine to New Mexico - an attempt to escape an unhappy marriage that only such a played out fantasy can repair.  In another story another family reveals its dysfunction only when a trauma brings everything into focus, opening a door for renewal. To single out individual stories is difficult as they are all so well constructed that the task becomes one of selecting your favorite chocolate from a box of the best.<br />Russo writes so well that all of his characters are three dimensional.  His technique of filling the interstices of background of each person, each event with bits and pieces of information placed throughout the story allows the reader to gradually and steadily become fully informed and completely involved with the short story genre.  His characters and situations are painfully tangential to those we all live and observe and it is in this ability to hold a mirror to our own lives that he deftly yet tenderly engenders insight into life during the 21st Century. If you only know Richard Russo from his novel or the movies based on his novels, or even if you've never had these pleasures, READ THIS BOOK!  One of the best of the year and one of the most reassuring followups from a man who has just won the Pulitzer!a mirror to our own lives that he deftly yet tenderly engenders insight into life during the 21st Century. If you only know Richard Russo from his novel or the movies based on his novels, or even if you've never had these pleasures, READ THIS BOOK!  One of the best of the year and one of the most reassuring followups from a man who has just won the Pulitzer!	2002-07-12
1480634:US	52496677	R224PU76LVBLTU	0823055795	91670767	Understanding Paintings: Themes in Art Explored and Explained	Books	5	29	30	N	Y	A thorough grounding in art appreciation	For all the terrific essays, books, guides, museum publications and primers for the beginning art lover, this generously illustrated, thoughtful book presents one of the most practical and informative manuals on how to look at and truly see paintings.  The authors have divided this survey of painting not in the usual hisorical context, but instead they show us the various types of paintings and how to approach them and get the most out of the viewing experience.  By selecting categories such as Religious painting, Myth and Allegory, The Nude, History painting, Portraiture, Landscape, Still Life, and even Abstract painting they present samples from across the entire history of Western art, pointing out the hows and whys artists chose and painted each subject.  Religious painting, for example, uses examples from Giotto, Tiepolo, Michelangelo, Bosch and Rembrandt to Max Ernst, Dali, Gauguin, Stanley Spencer and Jackson Pollock.  By concentraiting on the subject of the painting we are guided into an understanding of the evolution of that type of painting and the result is that we are encouraged to look at every school and every period of history in a refreshed light.  The section on landscape shows that the beginnings of this genre can be found in the backgrounds of the medieval frescoes and progresses through various periods until the Landscape itself is the main subject.  The many interpretations of myths, allegories, Self Portraits, components of still life paintings are all explored and documented in the most user-friendly way.  This book is invaluable for teachers of Art Appreciation, for those people who want to know what to look for when they visit museums, and for artists who want a different slant on the history of composition.  The color reproductions are plentiful and of excellent quality.  This is a fine addition to the library of art lovers and afficiandos, students and hedonists!  A worthwhile investment, and a  fine reference book and tool.	2002-07-10
1481093:US	52496677	R27GR0PRUXP72M	1854107860	965840926	An Audience with an Elephant: And Other Encounters on the Eccentric Side	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Charming Diversion	Byron Rogers is a highly regarded British Press writer, much like the Human Interest editors of all the major newspapers in the USA.  He writes in a succinct, informed, yet chatty way that endears him to British readers and now with the appearance of AN AUDIENCE WITH AN ELEPHANT, a collection of his previously published observations, the American readers can delight in his gifts.  This small book is a perfect companion of light reading at the bedside or as an endlessly interesting collection for brightening moments during travels.  His topics vary widely - from the tortoise captured at Gallipoli, to a teenage elephant that toured the Bristish Isles as an honored guest at festivities, to the problems with being single  and coping with Singles Bars.  Though some my see this collection as a variation on Ripley's Believe It Or Not, it is nonetheless continuously humorous and tender.  Rogers eccentricites have a way of putting the world in which we struggle into comic relief and allows us to laugh at our own foibles.  Good medicine, this!	2002-07-09
1482360:US	52496677	ROICB2AAJ2YB9	1858940842	648880957	The Artist's Model: From Etty to Spencer	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Visually and textually informing	What some may see as just another pretty artsy coffee table book will be missing a truly educational experience.  THE ARTIST'S MODEL, though a catalogue of sorts accompanying an exhibition in England in 1999, is a fine historical documentation about the role of the live model in representational painting from the early 19th Century to the present.  Logically divided into four sections - 'From Academy to Art School', 'The Studio Model', 'Models and Muses', and 'The Naked and the Nude' - the four writers deliver historical data accompanied by copious visual examples.  Here are all of the well know British figurative artists  as well as some lesser lights that deserve more attention.  Yes, the book delivers the expected gossip of which artists did what with which models in a wonderfully British tone.  But more important is the survey of how the models in the academies and schools moved from being solely male to almost exclusively female and the sociological changes that accompanied this odd transition.<br />This book overflows with beautiful illustrations, but it doesn't stop at images:  each painting depicted is accompanied by a bit of history about the artist AND the model and the way in which this example illustrates each author's premise.  This is a wise, informed, and thouroughly entertaining book that deserves greater attention.	2002-07-09
1484097:US	52496677	RVVYLDU5Q3CRJ	0007141076	958226210	Unless: A Novel	Books	5	26	28	N	N	A Profound Novel under a Cloak of Simplicity	Carol Shields is a powerful writer, all the more so because she writes in such facile prose that she is accessible on every level - the &quot;story&quot; of a Canadian family coping with focus of despair in an otherwise comfortable world, the &quot;philosophy&quot; of how we arrive at the state of adulthood only when we are able to remember and incorporate our hazy past, the &quot;sociology&quot; of what is happening to feminisim, to friendships, to geneology and inheritance in a family, the &quot;spiritual&quot; haven where finding internal goodness is more than enough of a Journey, the &quot;didactical&quot; means of writing a book.  Now that covers a lot of ground!  Shields builds the tension of this short novel with such honesty that we are at first put off that a good mother could seem to put the trauma of her eldest daughter becoming a street person in such a niche that she can proceed with cooking, tending her hausband and other daughters, having tea with friends, translating  from the French the works of a Canadian femininist, and writing her own &quot;light entertainment &quot; novel while being confronted by editorial asides. It is just such a slice of ordinary life, living day to day because of and inspite of, that makes her final resolution of this marvelous novel so touching.  Shields assigns each short chapter with &quot;little chips of grammar (mostly adverbs or prepositions) that are hard to define&quot; such as &quot;therefore, otherwise, instead, already,&quot; etc.  Most tellingly she uses one of these 'chips' as the title of this novel, and it is only half way through that she tells us why.  &quot; 'Unless' is the worry word of the English language.  It flies like a moth around the ear, you hardly hear it, and yet everything depends on its breathy presence.&quot;  To attempt to review this novel with more words would be inadequate.  This is the work of a Pulitzer Prize winning writer, one of the strongest, and most honest voices writing today.  This is a treasure box of a book.  Highly recommended.his is a treasure box of a book.  Highly recommended.	2002-07-07
1487433:US	52496677	R1OQLO70PBBUO7	3822866202	685766049	Piranesi the Complete Etchings (Klotz)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	The Definitive catalogue raisonne of Piranesi	Despite the minimal written information, translated from Italian into both English and German, this very generous book does indeed live up to its title of The Complete Etchings.  Giovanni Battista Piranesi lived and worked in the mid 18th century, dreaming of architecturally recreating Ancient Rome.  Thwarted from his grandiose dreams by practical matters of living, he found a viable outlet for communicating at least his visions by means of making some of the finest etchings the printing world has known.  Concepts he could not translate into edifices became grand, eloquent and very personal prints which even today influence artists and stage designers, so atmospheric and rich are the renderings.  Piranesi thought on the grand scale, and these many etchings demonstrate how his sense of space, of dark interiors with penetrating shafts of light, of temples, of prisons and prisoners, and even details of architectural elements of decor could become fine art.  Though the amount of information about the man as written here is minimal, I doubt that there was much more to this man's biography, so absorbed he was with markings on copper plates.  But the lack of biographical data is more than compensated for in the accompanying information on the pages with each etching.  This is a fine addition to the libraries of artists, printmakers, architects, and yes, Dreamers!  Well worth the price.	2002-07-04
1491320:US	52496677	R3D44BHXU1RTHZ	0151005389	952654074	The Demon and the Angel: Searching for the Source of Artistic Inspiration	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Entering the nether world of inspiration	Flashes of inspiration, of originality, of that conjoining of synapses that transmit creativity to the mind/eye/hand/soul of the receiver and bring forth significant art have been assigned to a Muse, a connection with some other place, always indefineable until this eloquent little book by the intoxicatingly intelligent Edward Hirsch. As erudite as this well researched book is, it is more a companion to the learning eye and mind, much like his other forays into how to read poetry, etc. Using the centuries-old concept of the \\"daimon\\" or demon as best illustrated thorugh Lorca's \\"duende\\", Hirsch spends the first half of his book drawing us into a familiarity and asks us to be vulnerable to the concept of a mysterious spirit that enters from the bowels of the earth the body of the writer, poet, musician, composer, dancer,  and induces creativity. His examples and quotations from a wide range of artists are convincing. And just when we feel sure that we understand the creative source, Hirsch takes us a step further and discusses the Rilke belief that inspiration comes down from the heavens as an angel to soar through the mind of the receptive artist and provides that out of body, inexplicable touch that we call creativity. With both sources - one emerging for the bowels of the earth as a dark demon and the other descending through the firmament to transiently rest inside the soul - Hirsch addresses just what is \\"creativity\\" and how we can better find it and embrace it. This small book speaks volumes to artists and readers alike. This is not a \\"self help\\" book, but rather a source of inspiration as powerful as any canvas or poem or symphony. Read and improve your connection with art.	2002-07-01
1495869:US	52496677	RWL1T8JGR4ID7	0743222946	337618584	At Swim, Two Boys	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	A wondrous journey in words and passion	AT SWIM, TWO BOYS is one of the most innovative books to come along in years.  In this massive tome, writer O'Neill shows deep respect for the intellect of his readers: getting into this book requires a lot of work to become comfortable with all the Irish terms, the style of writing, the complex history of Ireland, and just the need for a handy thesaurus.  But what a poet he is!  O'Neill paints 1915-1916 Ireland the way few others outside of James Joyce have been able.  Within paragraphs he plays with rhyming, juxtapositions, partial phrases, repeated thoughts, all in a way that is unobtrusively additive to the experience of reading this story.  Given all the facility and beauty and complexity of the writing, it would be for naught if the story weren't there.  But it is here, in the groin of the book, that O'Neill is able to deliver the goods.  He has chosen to reveal a univeral process - the sexual awakening of two lads - in the context of all the joys of childhood (pranks, daring swimming in the cold ocean, finding home in the face of poverty) and all the fears of adulthood (the threat of war, the menace of the inner twistings of the Irish Catholic Church, the drive for nationalism, etc).  His characters are without exception realisticallly fleshed out, so much so that character development of even the smallest role is thoroughly and surprising unfolded as the story gains momentum. Nothing is as it first seems; everything is evolving as the working facades of people alter with probing and in conjunction with the plot development. The Gentry, the poor, the priests, the Volunteer Army, the land and sea all undulate and intertwine in O'Neill's wizardlike hands.  We end up caring for people we thought were one dimensional:  we grow to love the people who live within the covers of this book as much as the two young lads grow to love each other.<br />I am sad to observe that this brilliant book is not on the Best Sellers Lists in this country.  Yes, the book deals with same sex love, with a man who gently introduces the Greek Ideal of love so often quoted by Oscar Wilde to his proteges.  Buy it is time to bury homophobia and I cannot imagine a more sophisticated book to achieve understanding than this.<br />Brilliant!same sex love, with a man who gently introduces the Greek Ideal of love so often quoted by Oscar Wilde to his proteges.  Buy it is time to bury homophobia and I cannot imagine a more sophisticated book to achieve understanding than this.<br />Brilliant!	2002-06-27
1503446:US	52496677	R3MKW9EP2VERR1	0965486710	308130309	Dinner Behind the Lines	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Generous Sampling of the Genius of Stephen Ryder	There is a particular joy in discovering writers of the caliber of Stephen Ryder, writers who have been admired by peers and public alike, but who remain a too well kept secret from the public at large.  Such is the case for Stephen Ryder, a gifted poet, essayist, novelist and screenwriter who perhaps now has come into his own with the success of his screenplay for \\"L.I.E.\\", one of the finest independent films made last year.<br />DINNER BEHIND THE LINES is an anthology published in 1997 that includes seductive samplings of each of his talents. Here is an author so rich in background experiences from which to draw that finding his poetic messages so intensely honest becomes almost taken for granted.  His poems range from haiku-like distillations of human response to subtly covert expressions of the heart, leaving the reader to decide the person addressed.  There is a lot of Walt Whitman in this man, and few contemporary poets can approach Ryder's gift for cloaking male bonding in a way that maintains honesty while allowing universality for lovers of all ilk to relate. \\"My Bonnie Shipmates\\" and \\"Paris 1967\\" and \\"Perspective\\" are tender and simultaneously painful to read.<br />Ryder seems obsessed with the passage of time, of aging, often writing (as in \\"You\\" and \\"Azure Blue\\" etc) as though he were an old man looking back at a youth too quickly passed, too garbed in shadowed yet unspoken lusts, when in reality Ryder is not old  at all!  Hi soul is old, or better described, \\"aged\\".  Ryder's Essays such as \\"Half the Power of God: A Police Story\\" and \\"Grant's Monologue\\" should be included in every collection of 20th Century American writing.  His Letters call out his secrets rather boldly , yet remain cogent and irresistable. His short story \\"Thunder Hill\\" cries to be either extended as a novel or better, made into a film.<br />But nowhere in this collection of jewels are we prepared to face the devastating beauty of his poems influenced by his time in the Vietnam War - \\"Veteran's Day\\" reveals Ryder's psyche and encountering this man full face forward is a paralyzing experience that quickly infiltrates the memory bank of all who have served in wars.<br />Read this book.  Stephen Ryder will hopefully be giving us more screenplays soon, but meanwhile savour this treasure trove.- \\"Veteran's Day\\" reveals Ryder's psyche and encountering this man full face forward is a paralyzing experience that quickly infiltrates the memory bank of all who have served in wars.<br />Read this book.  Stephen Ryder will hopefully be giving us more screenplays soon, but meanwhile savour this treasure trove.	2002-06-20
1504065:US	52496677	R2V96QOQJQAROX	0374527024	897036913	Lorca: A Dream of Life	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A thorough if exhausting academic surveillance	Don't let the title of LORCA: A DREAM OF LIFE fool you into thinking that this book is about the fantasies that wove the character of the great Spanish writer/artist.  This is  a well researched document that should be an essential volume in all libraries.  There is much to be learned here:  how many Americans understand the magnitude of the Spanish American War which resulted in skeletonizing the empire of Spain, annexing the Philippines, Cuba, and Puerto Rico to the US?  It is this era of defeat into which Lorca was born - author Stainton begins her book this way and continues the entire biography uniting the changes in Lorca's development as an artist with the political upheavals of WWI and WWII.  This history in context technique at times absorbs too many pages, giving us less information about the soul of the subject than about the country of the subject.<br />Given this direction as her modus operandi, Stainton still manages to illuminate the works of Lorca and even has the courage to tackle his sexuality and the consequent influences on his work.  While other biographers have given us a more fleshed out image of one of the truly great writers of the 20th century, LORCA: A DREAM LIFE is written with consummate attention to detail and enlightens us as to the milieu which contributed to the intensity of experiences tha shaped Lorca's output. This is definitely a good read and recommended to round out your understanding of Lorca's Spain and Spirit.	2002-06-19
1517149:US	52496677	R25VPGA2AYP4FY	0810905647	858677214	Hunt Slonem: An Art Rich and Strange	Books	5	10	12	N	N	At last a Definitive Monograph for Hunt Slonem	For the last 20 or so years many of us have been in deep admiration for the lushly romantic paintings by the singular Hunt Slonem.  Here is an artist who truly lives in his work and we are the richer for it.  Slonem captures the magic in the exotic and makes even the mundane transporting.  His best known paintings are of his ongoing preoccupation with birds of the tropical vein: he lives with them, nurtures them, is obcessed with their spiritual stance as a meeting point between heaven and earth.  But his talents are not wholly absorbed by his aviary.  Slonem paints ocelets, monkeys, tigers, saints, mythical beings and other subjects, along with his passion for portraiture of exotic people.  Rudolph Valentino, go-go boys,  princesses, et al find their way into elaborate baroque frames that adorn not only the artist's home, but in collections and museums throughout the world.<br />Donald Kuspit does his usual fine writing in capturing the quintessence  of Slonem's visual messages.  The color reproductions are excellent and as lavish as the talent of the painter.  A truly beautiful Monograph!	2002-06-07
1517192:US	52496677	R3TTOCGF9DGOTQ	0195107608	363946724	Outlaw Representation: Censorship and Homosexuality in Twentieth-Century American Art (Ideologies of Desire)	Books	4	6	9	N	Y	A Well Written Research on an Interesting Topic	Richard Meyer has added a significant volume to the compendium of books on American art and its kinship to social mores.  Using Censorship as a topic should arouse the interest of all who value freedom of expression and it is to that audience that I think this books plays to best.  Yes, the art examined here is queer art, but it is art that is a significant part of the 20th Century, not just an isolated school.  His chosen artists are Paul Cadmus, Robert Mapplethorpe, Andy Warhol and Gran Fury and in presenting these artists he is concomittanly investigating the influence of such highly important social issues as AIDS, consumerism, POP culture, the whole Jesse Helms/Jerry Farwell/Christian Coalition debacle in a way that makes the reader look into the motivational behavior of the past century that continues into this century.  The book is well documented in images and footnotes, making it a must for school libraries and fellow scholars.  Despite the confrontational topic of the book, Meyer writes so well that he maintains interest even when extending his examples a bit too far.  He overall theme appears to be that there is some good to be found in censorship:  media attention derived from such art brings heightened awareness and eventually more prestige and longevity to the art and involved artists.  One major complaint about this book: the typeface point is so small that it makes reading the pages a visual strain.  In an otherwise expensive layout, one wonders why the typeface couldn't have been changed to one more user friendly.	2002-06-07
1527548:US	52496677	R2W50JH9W83MEZ	0679759263	127056417	The Soloist	Books	5	42	42	N	N	How many lives does Mark Salzman have?	THE SOLOIST is a fine novel, interweaving three stories that all center on the narrator: the rise and fall of a child prodigy cellist, the sole member of a jury at a murder trial who finds meaning in a defendent's case, and a teacher of a budding, gifted young Korean cellist.  Each story has its own cast of characters beautifully realized, but most important - each aspect of this tripartite novel is told with such informed authority that imagining the author in anything but an autobiographical mode is next to impossible.  Just as in his previous novel LYING AWAKE which dealt with  the inner thoughts of a cloistered nun, Salzman here shows us he has a thorough understanding of music, music making, and the sociology and philosophy of our court system and our education system.  Not that he stops at reportage. Hardly!  It is simply his depth of knowledge about everything he writes make his novels deeply committed and inspiring.  The reason for writing THE SOLOIST is probably one of encouraging his readers to live in the moment.  But it is the loving manner of relating his tale that gets us there, almost without knowing we've arrived.  A fine book to encourage a whole town (Pasadena) to read and share as is the goal here.  Well worth anyone's time.	2002-05-29
1534742:US	52496677	R247MKRLWUP0I9	0618173870	420660459	Everything Is Illuminated: A Novel	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A luminous new star, illuminating	Take note of the name Jonathan Safran Foer.  Here is a promising new writer.  And if you want to know more about him (more than the bizarrely designed book cover capsulizes) just read this innovative first novel, as the author makes himself the principal character.  EVERYTHING IS ILLUMINATED  sheds a lot of light on Foer's literary if not genetic background.<br />This short novel packs a wallop, mostly due to the method in which it is written.  For a quick synopsis of the story refer to the editorial reviews regarding the individual's search for obscure roots, in this case an American Jew travels to the Ukraine in an attempt to understand why his grandfather survived the Nazi invasion.  That's all you have to worry about, story wise.  But it is the manner in shich this tale is woven that Foer shines.  Some of the most hilarious abuse of the English language comes out of the mouth and pen of Alex, a Ukrainian lad who serves as translator for the author's quest in finding the obscure town of Trachimbrod.  For this reader, this endlessly creative foray of malapropisms is the highpoint of the book.  Foer peoples his escapade with Alex's cranky but lovable grandfather, a farting dog named Sammy Davis Junior, Junior, and a huge supporting cast of quasihistorical characters slowly uncovered in the surreal myth of a simple Ukranian shetl (village).<br />As with any first novel there are areas which need nurturing by experience to live up to the success as a whole.  Foer jumps around so much that at times he loses the reader and asks that we actually work (a little too hard at times) to keep up with his story, such as repeating phrases and words incessantly, creating conglomerate sentences/words, trickster verbiage, etc. This may be the author's way of conveying how the desparate mind functions when faced with incredible reality.  The design layout from cover to page is cutesy and tends to cheapen the content.  But these are personal responses, and afterall \\"Everything IS Illuminated\\"!<br />One thing remains clearly illuminated:  here is a young author who can handle comedy like a pro, tragedy with sensitivity and truth, who can write stories about people that make a difference in your heart, and who has STYLE!luminated\\"!<br />One thing remains clearly illuminated:  here is a young author who can handle comedy like a pro, tragedy with sensitivity and truth, who can write stories about people that make a difference in your heart, and who has STYLE!	2002-05-22
1537164:US	52496677	R2Q8ZNN40045Y7	1582431558	643966353	The Lantern Bearers	Books	5	5	6	N	N	THE LANTERN BEARERS is simply brilliant!	Closing the final pages of Ronald Frames' novel THE LANTERN BEARERS calls forth a spectrum of emotion: sadness that this wondrous novel is finished, awe for the genius quality of writing, profound respect for a writer who can so intuitively understand the processes of music making/collaboration/relationship dissections, and despair for the simple mistakes we all have made that can result in ruin and even death of others.<br />At the inception of this book Frame places the narrator of this tale of adolescent social, hormonal, emotional, discovery of love, foraging self, writhing into the threats of adulthood, and ultimately the meaning of taking responsibility for actions,  in the body of a cancer stricken adult who seeks atonement for a misled life by writing the penultimate biography of one Euan Bone, a composer of importance who died surrounded by mystery.<br />With this intriguing introduction Frame takes us back to a summer when the narrator served as apprentice and collaborator with a composer while on a summer hiatus from a strained family home in Glasgow.  In this short time Neil (our 14 year old narrator) discovers the magic of music, learns the intricacies of composition, of gay relationsips, of his own awakening of sexuality, only to have that tenuous bridge to adulthood betray his new world as his voice changes from child to man. His value to the composer at an end, Neil begins to stalk his hero and ultimately is driven to create a vicious lie of child molestation which he watches burgeon into the ultimate death of his beloved hero.<br />While some authors would need at least 500 pages to sort out all the implications and embellishments such a bizarre tale might require, Frame's glorious mastery  of words leads us steadily and compulsively through this story in a mere 224 pages, each page polished with thorough knowledge of music, of English and Scottish society, of literature, of regional terms and words that make this book so unique in flavor.  There are moments when the nature of a fruitful relationship between two artists suggests Benjamin Britten/Peter Pears,  Christopher Isherwood/Don Bachardy, et cetera.  But that is only one aspect of this stunning masterwork.  Yes, there are lessons richly deserving to be learned, insights into Scotland's beauties, hints of the creative forces in the minds of the blessed creators of the arts.  But mentioning these only grazes the surface of what to me is one of the finest books written in the last decade.  This book deserves a very wide audience.  By all means READ THIS!re moments when the nature of a fruitful relationship between two artists suggests Benjamin Britten/Peter Pears,  Christopher Isherwood/Don Bachardy, et cetera.  But that is only one aspect of this stunning masterwork.  Yes, there are lessons richly deserving to be learned, insights into Scotland's beauties, hints of the creative forces in the minds of the blessed creators of the arts.  But mentioning these only grazes the surface of what to me is one of the finest books written in the last decade.  This book deserves a very wide audience.  By all means READ THIS!	2002-05-21
1542752:US	52496677	R2GP6CDVZ8HKAW	1931561028	187658169	Letters to Montgomery Clift	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Profound in its simplicity	Noel Alumit.  Watch that name.  LETTERS TO MONTGOMERY CLIFT is his first novel and a \\"wonder-full\\" debut it is.  The story of a child (Bong/Bob) displaced from the horrors of Marcos' rule in the Philippines to Los Angeles and his subsequent journey through varying foster homes to recover his estranged parents is neatly and cleverly tied together with his self ruminations in the form of letters to his hero of movies, of heart and of love - Montgomery Clift.  This technique could be banal in the hands of writers not as sensitive as Alumit, but in his hands these short notes serve as a means to delineate a child's fantasy world, a map of longing that accompanies his coming of age, a means to relate to a world gone mad and taking him with it.<br />Alumit wins us over by beginning this short, immensely readable novel in a light tone, creating the idea that we are embarkng on a comic, youthful fantasia.  Once the characters are introduced in a way that they become photographically real, the book takes a turn toward the meat of the story.  Characters enter (much as movie extras....), evolve, and find an indelible role in Bong/Bob's saga.  Through these diverse people Bong begins to understand the world, to cope with his changing place, to discover his unique identity.  What begins as a light tale becomes a discovery of the cruelty inherent in both the home and the world at war.  Alumit succeeds to bringing his odyssey to a quasi-Hollywood finish which fits so well with the use of Montgomery Clift as his alter ego.<br />This is a first novel and shows passages and choices that will mature with further writing.  But this is a superb little book that will hold you between its covers until you finish this profound and simple tale.  Highly recommended.	2002-05-15
1551125:US	52496677	RAEMGCNOLW44J	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Staggering History: A Stunning Report	GHOST SOLDIERS is one of the most successful books about war, a scrupulously detailed academic scrutiny delivered in a briliantly captivating novelistic form.  Hampton Sides has produced a vivid reconstruction of what must be one of the most painfully forgotten episodes of WW II - the actual fall of the US Armed Forces in the Phillipines at the hands of the Japanese in the bloddiest excerpt of the Pacific Theater of WW II.  It is humbling to read this beautifully written volume, knowing that our own soldiers were subjected to such atrocities and yet most lived to overcome three years of Prisoner of War condition to return home, only to be quietly forgotten (&quot;ghosts&quot;) once the media took on Iwo Jima, Hiroshima, Okinawa, and Nagasaki.<br />Sides has a gift in working from oral histories, diaries, reports, and documents, turning those into so vivid a presence that he places the reader in the midst of the POWs, fully cognizant of the smells, the tension, the medical dilemmas, the interactions between prisoners and guards.  But he does not confine his account to the Cabanatuan prison camp: characters on the periphery are drawn with such clarity ( for example, &quot;High Pockets&quot; AKA Claire Phillips who bravely cajoled the Japanese officers in her dance club to glean information for the Army intelligence) that the world of the Philippines becomes a well-trod stage, heightening the drama of the POW story.<br />And last, but definitely not the least of this fine book's gifts, GHOST SOLDIERS makes no judgments. Sides is able to report in an incredibly engaging manner without all the gratuitous hoopla that often accompanies &quot;war books&quot;.  This is a stellar achievement and one that would be well served translated into a movie, solely for the enlightment of the world as to an isolated atrocity that stands as a symbol for all that is wrong about War.	2002-05-08
1558314:US	52496677	R735CL25D7WJI	0684831546	635179965	Accordion Crimes	Books	3	14	18	N	N	Not her best but still a treat	Annie Proulx is hard to beat as a writer who spins yarns and creates moods, places, and characters that live vividly in your mind long after the last capter of her always engrossing books is closed.  ACCORDION CRIMES, by any other author, would have been cited an unqualified success, but Proulx has spoiled her legion of fans with her other books that intensively dissect characters whose lives she unravels in an inimitable way.  In ACCORDION CRIMES all her gifts as a writer are intact but we lack a set of characters about whom we care.  This book is more of a Canterbury Tales or a Thousand and One Nights with the unifying presence being that of an accordian passing from hand to hand among a fascinating but essentially unrelated group of emigrants.  Proulx's immensely satisfying ability to inform us in detail about the most obscure subjects (such as the making and functioning of an accordion) alone satisfies the reader to  stay with her journey from century to century.  If there is a unifying element here it is the very heartbeat of the Americanization of foreign emigrants.  And after all, we all are just that, at varying lengths of living here!  A good read, if not up to Proulx's own high standards.	2002-05-02
1565372:US	52496677	R2OHGZYW0ZAYJL	0821225375	283646857	Wondrous Strange: The Wyeth Tradition	Books	5	15	16	N	N	An Important Overview of a Century of Americana	For many years it has been the practice of critics and art aficionados to relegate &quot;popular artists&quot; the likes of Norman Rockwell and the Wyeth clan to the bin of kitsch.  Time heals and alters and distance is kind as the current resurgence of appreciation of these and other artists of the land testifies.  Norman Rockwell now is considered an important American artist, sensitive to basic issues of what makes America the land of the common man's dream.  With this beautifully designed and written tome the same adulation should follow for the Wyeth clan.  The authors (Betsy Wyeth among them) had the good idea to show the seeds of the very familiar Wyeth imagery in the work of Howard Pyle, an artist known primarily as an illustrator along the lines of over the edge fantasy adventure books.  His pupil N.C. Wyeth took up the torch, primarily emulating Pyle's style but taking it to a new level.  His works of isolation, thwarted desire, and simple American traditions are absorbed by his son Andrew Wyeth who won favor among collectors of realist art during the time the country was running after Modernism, Expresionism, Abstraction. And finally Jaime Wyeth, son of Andrew, has been a constant presence with his quasi-surreal take on many of the same subjects as his progenitors.  The circle comes round with Pyle and Jaime  Wyeth embracing the more perverse subjects - an interesting century wheel turning round and round.<br />The color reproductions are generous and well selected.  Many of the well know Wyeth images are excluded, but in their place we are treated to images we have never seen.  This is a beautiful volume and a tender one, a memento of what our childhood in the 20th Century was like before the madness currently painted hit.	2002-04-26
1565481:US	52496677	R2O063M0CUADS5	1401033148	448346249	Inexquisite Eye	Books	3	11	14	N	N	A good study of our  state of communication dysfunction	THE INEXQUISITE EYE. Who wouldn't want to read a book by that title?  This is a very well written novel that furthers the investigation of the contemporary dysfunctional family and dysfunctional individual. Smith's writing style is liquid, moving along at a pace that begs us to read &quot;just one more chapter&quot; until the book is finished.  I would like to see what this author would do if he concentrated his talent on a main character that was more interesting and certainly more charismatic than the bitchy Elissa.  The supporting cast of characters is well drawn but, alas, failed to gain empathy or sympathy.  I think this author is gifted and should quickly move on to a more universally interesting story with which to display the promises here of a major writer.	2002-04-26
1566331:US	52496677	R15IWJ054D6OD5	0789202808	432653483	Reflections of Nature: Paintings by Joseph Raffael	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	A Monograph worthy of its Subject	REFLECTIONS OF NATURE: Paintings of Joseph Raffael is one of the most elegant monographs on a practicing artist I have had the pleasure of reading.  Yes, &quot;reading&quot; is an operative word here.  Too often artist monographs are coffee table picture books, lush and lovely to look at, enlightening as to a chronologial path of achievement, and even historically relevant - solely on the basis of the images: the written essays are seldom read and if they are read, they are merely perused.  Such is not the case with this warmly informative and evocative collection of the works of this fine realist painter.  Authors Amei Wallach and Donald Kuspit write with courage about techniques (use of the photograph as the springboard, method of appropriation form the photo image to the paper or canvas, etc) that would frighten most of our painters today, so revealing of secrets and methods publically scorned as &quot;copying&quot; or NOT &quot;representational&quot;.  But the real coups in this valuable volume is having the artist talk us through not only his techniques, but is personal history and vulnerabilites.<br />As for the paintings, there are splendid reproductions of those paintings we all know and love (koi, water, water lilies, flowers) but there are also many examples of Raffael's wildlife images, spiritual images, and those of his wife Lannis seeming to metamorphose out of her garden.  This book is a fine standard for future art books that stirve to inform as well as document an artist's work. Even if you don't know Raffael's paintings, I would recommend your adding this volume ot your library - for you eye's AND your soul's sake.  Outstanding!	2002-04-25
1567864:US	52496677	R22CCKQZESGXGP	0679432477	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Lessons in history, social studies and other yarns	Having never read a Russo book (though I had seen movies based on his books), being a bit put off by the daunting length of his small town meanderings, I picked up this book after it won the Pulitzer prize, more out of curiosity why this tome wiped out other books I considered done-deal winners than out of urge to read for pleasure's sake.  Like so many of Richard Russo's characters' bent toward making bad decisions I now admit I join those ranks.  This book is a terrific read.  Russo has earned his laurels as one of the better storytellers writing today, and if the Pulitzer seeks out books that focus on and dissect American life, then this book more than justifies the award.<br />EMPIRE FALLS may be a mythical town, but Russo creates such a well documented history in his prologue, italicized intervening chapters, and epilogue that this small town in Maine becomes wholly beliveable.  The span of character types touch every step of a class system denied by most as non-existent and in doing so Russo makes us explore motivations and explanations of why we all act out our lives the way we do.<br />The amazing gift of this writer is his subtle way of introducing a character as part of a scene, merely mentioning his/her presence at the moment, and later returning with a whole history of how that seemingly &quot;supporting cast&quot; person plays a major role in the unfolding of the grand kaleidoscope of a story that is Empire Falls.  He creates characters so well that they are instantly recognizeable when they enter a new development in the story, in a way that makes the reader continually say &quot;Aha!&quot;, &quot;Of course&quot;, as the story unfolds.  By the end of the book the people of Empire Falls are so well defined that they have become indelible presences in our minds.<br />While Russo doesn't bother with word painting or poetic glissandos about the settings or the atmosphere of nature that I usually treasure in other writers, his ability to capture small town claustrophobia is probably the best being written today.  EMPIRE FALLS catches you in a net and doesn't let you go until, wonder of wonders, you notice you have just turned the last page of this 500 page tome.  And I have to admit I have been missing the boat for years in not being caught up by Richard Russo.  Congratulations on your well deserved Pulitzer!n claustrophobia is probably the best being written today.  EMPIRE FALLS catches you in a net and doesn't let you go until, wonder of wonders, you notice you have just turned the last page of this 500 page tome.  And I have to admit I have been missing the boat for years in not being caught up by Richard Russo.  Congratulations on your well deserved Pulitzer!	2002-04-24
1580733:US	52496677	R2RYX2BNSL461C	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	38	45	N	Y	The Author leaves you breathless	In a time when we are blessed with a wealth of gifted writers, even though we still mourn the passing of the likes of WG Sebald, it is still a wonder to encounter a work of the magnitude of Ian McEwan's current masterwork ATONEMENT.  Aside from he fact that McEwan has been consistently placing his fine, terse novels such as AMSTERDAM and ENDURING LOVE before us, there is little to prepare us for the grandeur of his magnum opus ATONEMENT.  We have grown to expect this author's mastery of the English language, his uncanny sense of timing in creating stories that push forward fresh tales with the speed of a locomotive while finding beauty everywhere in the nature that he sees like few others.  But nothing has prepared us for this masterwork.<br /><br />The story of ATONEMENT is well told by others commenting at this website.  What makes this illuminating novel so momentous is the crux of a story at once seeming so simple but ending as an indelible landmark in contemporary writing.  This is a contemplation of morality, of love, of the unspeakable disaster of war, of the indefatigable resources of the human soul, of the staggering implications of a lie from the lips of a child of what ever age, and of mortality, of love.<br /><br />If the first chapters of this book feel slow, making the reader ask why are we detailing every move of what appears to be another languid, hot summer day in a 1935 English household, we are slowly discovering this is a well paced prelude to the brassy blast that WWII  exploded throughout the world.  A family gathering becomes a microcosm for exploring the thoughtless poisons that produce devastating wars.  Once the tale begins to unravel there is no turning back on the series of events that continue to surprise and amaze us and maintain a tension so great that only the interludes of McEwan's matchless descriptions of nature provide breathing room.<br /><br />The author creates characters so adroitly painted that they are destined to become enduring literary names to reference when describing archetypes like Stephen Daedelus, Holden Caulfield, etc.  His ability to draw us into the war plains of Dunkirk, the hospitals of war-torn England, the mossy lawns of English gentry is matched only by his ingenious ability to go back and forth from character to character, from chapter to chapter, showing all the retracings of thoughts and deeds as seen by his various characters.<br /><br />While reading this magical book I was tempted to remember phrases to use while reviewing, phrases that were such beautiful examples of how fine a wordsmith McEwan is, but that endeavor was quashed when I realized that such phrases and word pictures of drama and still lifes were on all 351 pages of this opus.  To try to entice raders by such quotations would be robbing them of the joy of discovery when this book falls hopefully in the hands of everyone who loves literature, who needs nourishment of the sould, who cherishes fine writing.  To say more would be unfair.  Read with welcome. Grady Harp, June 16uring literary names to reference when describing archetypes like Stephen Daedelus, Holden Caulfield, etc.  His ability to draw us into the war plains of Dunkirk, the hospitals of war-torn England, the mossy lawns of English gentry is matched only by his ingenious ability to go back and forth from character to character, from chapter to chapter, showing all the retracings of thoughts and deeds as seen by his various characters.<br /><br />While reading this magical book I was tempted to remember phrases to use while reviewing, phrases that were such beautiful examples of how fine a wordsmith McEwan is, but that endeavor was quashed when I realized that such phrases and word pictures of drama and still lifes were on all 351 pages of this opus.  To try to entice raders by such quotations would be robbing them of the joy of discovery when this book falls hopefully in the hands of everyone who loves literature, who needs nourishment of the sould, who cherishes fine writing.  To say more would be unfair.  Read with welcome. Grady Harp, June 16	2002-04-13
1592269:US	52496677	R2UYS3R5U47WNG	1585671967	736542120	The Royal Physician's Visit	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A brilliant case for the appeal of biographical novels	THE ROYAL PHYSICIAN'S VISIT is more than the sum of its parts - part history, part fiction, part novel, part social studies, part philosophy, part revolutionary probe.  The author has managed to capture that period in history when revolution from monarchy to democracy was pregnant not only in France and other countries in Europe but also in the United States. The late 1700s have been dramatized and filmed and sung and studied, but few have done so simple an explanation than Enquist's lifting the curtain on the rather obscure role Denmark played in  this cultural change.  Finally someone has managed to put The Enlightenment movement into sharp focus and demonstrate how the world changed because of those philosophers.<br />But this book is not only a brilliant historical treatise.  This book reads so beautifully as a novel that all of the political and social reforms play as background music to the presentation of how corrupt some monarchies could be.  The horror of how members of the court could quash a young future monarch into a pathetic, neurotic/psychotic abused child solely to maintain control over a kingdom is gruellingly depicted.  And the methods of capital punishment of \\"traitors\\" has rarely been so graphically described.  Yet within the framework of this gore and tragedy Enquist allows full glimpses of love, bonding, the need for security and affection that define all relationships, within and without of the Court of a Monarchy.  The only point at which the author seems to diverge from his classy writing style is his prolonged panting description of the \\"pulsing membranes\\" during the first intercourse between the Royal Physician and the teenaged Queen.  At that point the story seems to sink to pulp fiction.<br />But that said, this is a fine novel, well written, that serves to not only tell a fascinating story, but  to enlighten us as to Denmark's dark history in a way that makes \\"Hamlet\\" seem absolutely mild in comparison.  A true page turner, this.	2002-04-05
1604547:US	52496677	R20HZGSIWIBCNU	0465043089	98651750	The Hidden Hitler	Books	3	7	17	N	Y	Methinks the lady doth protest too much	Contrary to the abundant negative reviews of Lothar Machtan's THE HIDDEN HITLER there is something to be gained by reading this at times lugubrious treatise on the impact of Hitler's implied homosexuality in attempting to understand the singular horror of his existence. That \\"something\\" is a heightened understanding of the times and the events and the state of development of psychology that could produce such a beast. And after all is said and written, Hitler never could have existed in a vacuum: there were needs birthed by politcal and sociological climes that somehow needed a promised (read \\"messianic\\") figure.<br />If astute writers such as Christopher Isherwood were able to observe and report the decadence of Berlin, the \\"roaring 20's\\" atmosphere not unlike that concurrently throbbing in the USA, then the milieu in which the young misfit artist Adolf and his bohemian comrades seems conducive to the development of early indicators that the gay life was not to be ignored. The author of this historically based biography merely substantiates and documents evidences of Hitler's private life, later assigning some of the Fuhrer's bizarre rantings and misdeeds as attempts to conceal a factor that could have dethroned him and his Nazi Party.<br />Is the author saying that Hitler was a beast because he was homosexual? No, and as a matter of fact the extent to which this book is footnoted and referenced really ends up a seemingly pointless process without premise. Yes, it is interesting to explore the psyches of the monsters of history. But what, in the end, is the point? We are not enlightened as to why this man could become a genocidal maniac, and even more frustrating, we are not given clues as to why the gays of the period were incarcerated, tortured and burned in the same camps and ovens with the Jews.<br />This is probably a minor but meaningful addition to the exploration of Hitler and his time, but it is only for those who have a high tolerance for ambiguous minutia.tia.	2002-03-26
1616652:US	52496677	R17SRB8MCWYT4K	1566492254	458573740	Edinburgh	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A stunning debut by a thoroughly unique talent	There is a joy in discovering new novels by fresh young writers that compares favorably with the elation of returning to the works of the masters. Alexander Chee has burst onto the scene with a novel unique in language, in mode of storytellng, in nuances of imagery that the oft overused adjective \\"stunning\\" feels to be the only appropriate descriptor. Known only to this reader from his contribution to the touching anthology LOSS WITHIN LOSS, Chee emerges here in his debut novel EDINBURGH as fully groomed storyteller, wordsmith, poet, and excavator of the human plight. His ability to wrap a tough story in the atmospheric language that adroitly mirrors the onomatopoeia of the Asian language patterns while enchanting us with the beauty of Korean mythology and anthropomorphism takes what could be a loathsome tragedy and creates a sensitive coming of age and rites of passage tale.<br />The story is well documented on this site by the editorial and customer reviews and that is adequate to inform you of what lies between the covers of this seemingly short novel. But the story seems only a matrix to explore, with the metaphors of air/earth/fire/water that Chee so consumately weaves in this poetic tapestry, a young man's journey through the abyss and height of self discovery, of sexuality, of ancestral imprints, to the eventual knowledge of his pace in the cosmos.<br />Consider even the chosen title EDINBURGH: in the state of Maine (and in the state of youth) the main character  enters a safe haven library whose ceiling is a fresco of that city in Scotland struck by the Great Plague and whose library contents contain the centuries old last words of a man dying from that disaster. Chee takes that particular moment to let us envision the past and the future of a young man on the journey to self discovery. How perceptions and memories of childhood eventually inform our sense of adult self, how the choices of repetition of pain and old habits can lead to self destruction or, conquering them, foster a spiritual state of grace and resolved peace - these are the gentle lines of thought that tie this wondrously written book tighly together.<br />Reading EDINBURGH is an ultimate joy, like hearing a new piece of music on its opening performance. Chee appears securely destined to be a very important voice in American literature over the next decades. Read him now, at the beginning, and grow. This is a stunning book.quering them, foster a spiritual state of grace and resolved peace - these are the gentle lines of thought that tie this wondrously written book tighly together.<br />Reading EDINBURGH is an ultimate joy, like hearing a new piece of music on its opening performance. Chee appears securely destined to be a very important voice in American literature over the next decades. Read him now, at the beginning, and grow. This is a stunning book.	2002-03-17
1626225:US	52496677	R2SC3VSJ0V9L0N	185242513X	387171842	Who's a Pretty Boy, Then?: One Hundred & Fifty Years of Gay Life in Pictures	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A multifacteted overview	To dismiss this book as just an excuse to dredge up some titillating photographs for the purpose of publishing is an injustice.  This collection is an historical perspective on many levels - the camera as a art form since its invention, a survey of sociolgical transformations as to the perception of homosexuality,  the psychological sweep from the closet to the stage to Stonewall to the AIDS bedside and beyond.  There are many many captured moments that seem voyeuristic in the best sense of the word in that the spontaneity of individuals interacting as well as groups entertaining are fresh and often off guard.  Here is a portfolio of tenderness, of hilarity, and of tragedy.  Would that there were more essays interspersed to document the various periods traversd.  But then we must also pay homage to the phrase &quot;a picture is worth a thousand words&quot;.  Well worth your time.	2002-03-09
1627172:US	52496677	R1XCTIMJDGODRP	0415937132	825304948	Pictures and Tears: A History of People Who Have Cried in Front of Paintings	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	A compassionate validation of the individual spirit	Jame Elkins has written a book that should be in the librairies of schools, art historians, incipient and experienced art lovers. In a winning conversational style of writing Elkins makes the case for subjective response to paintings, both past and present.  And in doing so he gives a brief course in at history (he is an art historian, actively teaching) that is less a chronological evaluation of politics and sociology and techniques of painting than it is a survey of how people have responded to paintings through time.  His precis: we are in this century prevented from &quot;experiencing&quot; paintings, so immersed are  we in swallowing the opinions of scholars and critics and our own spiritual aridity. He examines why certain people are able to cry in their encounter with paintings, others are moved to physiologic reactions, while others speedily walk past image after image in their need to huury past another obligatory check point in claiming cultural awareness.  In many ways this is a sad treatise on the fact that we have arrived at a time when we don't embrace our vulnerability, don't admit that something so apparently inanimate as an old master painting - if given the quantity and quality of time to absorb it - can touch inner secret caves and cause us to light up our souls and our existence by responding with unfettered eyes and heart.<br />Elkins investigates the various responses (including his own) to the Rothko Chapel, to Giotto,  to Renaissance paintings, to the Romantics, to Friedrich, and to Picasso's &quot;Guernica&quot;.  These are in the form of summation of letters written to him in response to his question &quot;Have you ever cried at paintings?&quot; sent to previous students, art historians, and friends.  His findings show that art historians in general have encouraged us to examine paintings as examples of technique, of historical settings, of schools of thought in the past: such academic dissection has replaced the individual response to the visual image. And fortunately for us the author concludes that the visceral response to paintings is more important than the cell of academic cold shelter.<br />For those of us who have committed our lives to bridging the gap between the painter and the public, encouraging everyone to go to the museums, galleries, schools, and churches to experience the indefinable majesty of emotional response to art, this little book is a godsend.  Buy it, read it slowly, break down your own barriers, open your mind, and you will find validation of your inner artist.  This is a &quot;beautiful presence&quot; of an artistic expression and we are indebted to Elkins for his courage in writing it.visual image. And fortunately for us the author concludes that the visceral response to paintings is more important than the cell of academic cold shelter.<br />For those of us who have committed our lives to bridging the gap between the painter and the public, encouraging everyone to go to the museums, galleries, schools, and churches to experience the indefinable majesty of emotional response to art, this little book is a godsend.  Buy it, read it slowly, break down your own barriers, open your mind, and you will find validation of your inner artist.  This is a &quot;beautiful presence&quot; of an artistic expression and we are indebted to Elkins for his courage in writing it.	2002-03-08
1631285:US	52496677	R1DAP13EBCW71Z	0375407375	175582861	Half a Life	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Not the best of his output	The first half of Naipaul's much heralded HALF A LIFE makes a fine promise that this writer can spin delectable webs.  Perhaps a familiarity with the atmosphere and history of both India and England makes the gradual growth of this story delicious.  Then POW - we're off to Africa and for this reader the story becomes less important and less interesting, and yes, a bit preachy.  I think the premise of this short novel is well drawn - that what we as individuals inherit genetically and sociologically and philosophically creates a destiny that need not be folllowed.  There is much to be learned about the caste system of India, the concept of the class system in England, and the disintegration of race indentification in Africa: reading this book will certainly inform us of the sad state of affairs that retards our beliefs in equalization of all men.  Maybe that is enough for a book to accomplish.  But the characters mouthing these social blunders are less than fleshed out.  With the exception of Willie, the main character, the rest of the cast is vaguely painted and doesn't carry our hearts the way this writer usually reveals.  I'm not sure this is a good starting book for readers who want to know a Nobel Peace Prize recipient's work.	2002-03-05
1638376:US	52496677	R14XCLVRI4QRSF	1555973566	847465705	Interesting Monsters	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Much much more than meets the eye	Now and then books pop up that cause a stir in the naive reader - a stir that proves once again that good literature is as alive as an evolving medium as any of the arts. Visual arts are perhaps easier to categorize into schools or trends and such labelling often promotes more transient interest in works of questionable value than providing the mind expanding function of the new, the changed, the unique.<br />Literature is not so easily codified.  While the evidence of our current increased reading habits becomes more evident, the usual best-seller hype too often submerges unique new voices.  Such is the case with Aldo Alvarez.  Though acknowledged in circles of informed writers and critics and readers of literary magazines, Alvarez seems to explode on the scene with INTERESTING MONSTERS like a breath of fresh literary air.  Alvarez himself takes care to inform us of his position in the ReModernism school (and I'll let you read his precis about that without diluting the wit and bite!).  This is not a book of short stories: this is a theme and variations on the myth and reality and ultimate viability of interpersonal relationships.  Yes, the relationship explored is between two gay men, and in electing to fast forward, flash back, daudle, and pause for amusing roulades, Alvarez creates an atmosphere for self examination that is universal.  The \\"interesting monsters\\" of the title appear to be the schisms in each of our personalities that surface and retreat at times with disatrous/amusing results.  This little book is packed with humor, with tenderness, with  sheer professorial excursions into the English language.  Some readers may find it not well tied or a bit obtuse, but those \\"faults\\" are easily healed with subsequent reaings - once you understand the enormously invigorating new style passing before your eyes and seeping into your brain.  A fine book by a fine writer - and observor!	2002-02-27
1645245:US	52496677	R3GC3800ZKTR1X	0743212746	828831796	The Shell Collector: Stories	Books	5	70	73	N	Y	A new, fresh highly focused voice in American literature	Anthony Doerr is an amazing talent.  His chronological age (28) does not match his literary acumen,  for here is a new writer who knows his craft so well that he is destined to be one of the more important authors of his generation ... and beyond.<br />In THE SHELL COLLECTOR Doerr has assembled short stories that are wide ranging in locale and in content.  How he is able to convey with such clarity the terrain and atmosphere of Liberia, Finland, Bavaria, Ohio etc may be credited to his own travels, but I think it is more a credit to his gifts of creating backdrops for his dramas.  The young man is so in tune with nature that in a few words he is able to descibe the advent of spring, the caustic stillness of winter, the miracles of ocean life and seeds becoming plants as well as the domain of butterflies.  His characters are driven in a synchronicity with natural forces to the extent that at times we are left to ponder whether the human with a name is more the main character than the land wherein he dwells.<br />Another aspect of the excitement these stories generate lies in the incredible tales themselves.  There are no usual rehashs of familiar prototypes: each story is a cosmos rarely explored.  Combine the magic of his limitless imagination with the glory of his writing skills and see if you don't agree that this is a Major New Voice in American literature.  One waits for an extended novel without any concomittent fear that he will be able to produce it. Bravo!	2002-02-22
1648025:US	52496677	R31ZG9A89H6TX5	0066210135	369617055	Source	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Whose words these are I think I know.......	Mark Doty amazes again.  His latest collection of poems collectively titled SOURCE is just that: he takes us to the source of experience whether from the visual, the memory, the tactile, the visceral.  Doty's poems touch so many subjects they can be seen as preludes to stories, but then since they are poems, they are distillations of stories or thoughts or feelings, and extending beyond the poem form might alter their r beauty.  Doty's ability to create visual images in a few terse words is astonishing.  After reading STILL LIFE WITH OYSTERS AND LEMON  it is not surprising that he has the ability to observe and communicate art probably better than anyone writing today.  He has a distinctive voice tat is becoming as universally accessible as Sandberg.  This is a collection of diverse poems that are here to savour until he graces us with another book.	2002-02-20
1650378:US	52496677	R29ZD4ITG7YP2W	0805061479	277559952	A Prayer for the Dying: A Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	A staggering achievement in writing.	Stewart O'Nan continues to gather momentum in establishing himself as one of the master writers of our time.  His novel THE NAMES OF THE DEAD revealed insights into the Vietnam tragedy like few others have matched.  He is able to explore the interstices of human behaviour and response to unthinkable tragedy with such clinical precision that at times his stories must be read again to take note of the eloquent lyricism of his writing gifts.<br />A PRAYER FOR THE DYING is in ways a metaphor for the Christ figure: one man is sent to absorb all the sins of the world, knowing that the end will be his own sacrifice/loss.  Jacob Hansen strolls through his war-injured life as a constable/minister/undertaker in a small town of Friendship, WI post Cival War time.  Gradually that stroll becomes a march toward the evils of diphtheria and a ravaging fire until the march becomes a race toward the inevitable destruction of all that is dear to him.  Cosmic tragedy consumes him and it is this process where we find the heroism of the indomitable spirit.  In Jacob's own words \\"If all of this has taught you anything, its that hope is easier to get rid of than sorrow.\\"  This book is small in size, short in pages, but overwhelmingly important in content.  Here is a study in perspective for the harrowing times in which we now live.	2002-02-18
1654337:US	52496677	RWQ4CW2Z0GB3Z	0877014965	671207871	Stephen De Staebler: The Figure	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Quiet Genius	Stephen De Staebler is an artist's artist.  Few higher compliments can be assigned.  Not that his work doesn't speak to all of mankind for it most assuredly does.  It is just that being the presence of his figures, pulled from clay like the biblical creation of man then cast into bronze, there is a beauteous purity of vision that somehow connects us all.  Donald Kuspit writes eloquently and reverently of De Staebler's techniques, gifts and spiritual vision.  This book is beautifully illustrated with a vast assortment of the artist's output.  Thiis is a well made monograph...but it is so much more.  If you are meeting De Satebler for the first time, welcome to all that is meaningful in our time on earth.  If he is a familiar friend, the share your admiration - page after page.	2002-02-14
1655619:US	52496677	R1WINY4VBLJ739	1892430002	401520901	A Lone Red Apple	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A  lovely, lyrical  romp	A LONE RED APPLE is a fizzing potpourri of mythology, travelogue, Greek history, educational techniques, poetry, and a tidy little love story.  It is rare that an author can demonstrate this much pleasure while serving to enlighten the reader by reviewing the lives of the Greek gods and thoroughly painting the lovely Grecian islands from both an historical view and a contemporary setting for the story.  We are given travel guides in the guise of students and their teacher (and his duplicitious paramours) and it is through their interaction with the heavenly overseeing mythical gods that we find a veritable summer idle.  The love story is touching, though a bit too abbreviated, and we are not always clear about the identities of the incompletely fleshed out secondary characters (where was the editor?).  At times the dances and the food and the travelguide approach borders on being stiff, but this is a wonderful bit of fluff that in the end has taught us something about a lot of things.  Refreshing and a perfect book to take on the airplane to whatever lover's destination you choose!	2002-02-13
1660294:US	52496677	R3G6Q6UG7V50H4	0395902444	468218895	The Marble Quilt	Books	5	2	5	N	Y	A testing ground of new tales for an established author	David Leavitt is a gifted writer and storyteller, one of the best in his genre.  This book of novellas/short stories/preNovels succeeds on all levels for this reader.  Varied in content and style, these nine tales feel like a testing ground for works that may be brewing in Leavitt's fertile mind.  Where is the new thread to be found in each of these stories?  It seems that we are being introduced to the unspoken dialogue that holds the distance between apparently proximal characters, whether that proximity is a longstanding relationship being evaluated in retrospect, or a small cabin on a train holding related but highly disparate characters.  Leavitt seems to be taking an observor's distance, analyzing why things aren't as they appear.  Even relating history (Oscar Wilde's life as played out thorugh the adroitly drawn quasi-lover Bosie) or putting under the microscope the lives of a family of two women who were always thought to be sisters........, etc., or playing out the cruelty of gossip as filtered through the third person of email - each of these tales of misperception or variation of viewpoint are drawn with Leavitt's sharply polished skills with the English language.  The author proves yet again that his imagination is alive and well and shows only positive signs of continuing to mature as a potent literary force.  Well worth your reading time!	2002-02-10
1660879:US	52496677	R2DOERZ0LHFDE3	1880154358	222838653	Jenny Saville: Territories	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Geography of the Human Form	Jenny Saville is a focused contemporary painter who has been consistently driven to explore the myriad facets of the human figure.  She selects models of corpulant physiques, transgendered models, and self portraits as seen compressed against glass.  Her brush strokes are large but sure.  The very sizes of her canvases (many are wall-sized epics) imitate her models.  And yet what is the artistic statement about these huge works?  One of tenderness, of love for flesh, of respect for what some may consider unseemly.  Saville charts her territories with insightful grandeur, all the while making these huge canvases of huge women somehow vulnerable and noble.  The book contains little writing, allowing the pages to be filled with well reproduced paintings.  JENNY SAVILLE: TERRITORIES will go down as a landmark in the artists of the 21st Century dialogue about the way we see others...and ourselves.  A very beautiful monograph!	2002-02-09
1662729:US	52496677	R8S5VZOZJCW1Y	0140292020	33709423	Places Left Unfinished at the Time of Creation	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Magical Realsim: An Extraordinary Explanation of Definition	So often the essence of Hispanic culture, especially when addressing Mexico, Central and South America, is referred to as &quot;Magical Realism&quot;.  Whether referring to the literature of Marquez, Allende, Arenas, the paintings of Kahlo, Rivera, Bravo, Marquez, Borges, or the music of Ginestera, et al - the unifying element usually refers to this genre.  Few authors have been successful in describing the origins or even the meaning of the term...that is, until John Phillip Santos elegantly warm memoir PLACES LEFT UNFINISHED AT THE TIME OF CREATION.  Santos revisits his history through the immediacy of immigrant (yet unaltered) Old Ladies, creating from their tales a lush, incendiary canvas of passion, faith, commitment, hardship, and resilience. He adroitly mixes the two languages (Spanish and English) with finesse, at times translating for the non-Spanish reader, and at times allowing the beauty of his Spanish phrases to sing for themselves.  This book is a paean to the sanctity of the souls of the immigrants who have endured the agony of expatriation, who have entered El Norte to find, if not their fortunes, then their integrity as human beings.  This beautifully written book should be on the shelves of the libraries of schools throughout the USA...but it should also be in the library of everyone who wonders about the beauty of the Hispanic heritage - which for lack of a better name we call Magical Realism.	2002-02-08
1664535:US	52496677	R7VNLRH6DJEJH	0525945121	293422350	Chang and Eng: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Stranger than Fiction!	Darin Strauss has elegantly polevaulted over the difficult hurdle of writing a novel based on historic fact while keeping his story refined and tight enough that the novel stands on its own merits, as though the &quot;fiction&quot; is beautifully embellished by &quot;fact&quot;.  Not only does he make the history of the famous Siamese twins Chang and Eng read like a flawlessly constructed novel, he has obviously carefully researched his subject so that all of the peripheral data (pre-Civil War America, early New York, the Civil War, the stature of Siam in the 19th century, supporting cast that includes PT Barnum et al) ring true.<br />In writing about the twins whose life was supported by being a carnie show act Strauss is sensitive to the concepts of how people out of the groove we consider &quot;normal&quot; relate. These twins are wholly believable in their interaction with each other, with an estranged society, with their two wives. At first the curiosity factor may be the reason for buying and reading this book.  And for those readers who enjoy a sojourn into the bizarre, the incredible, this book supplies all that.  By alternating chapters of the twins' childhood to manhood histories with chapters devoted to their adult status as husbands and fathers this fascinating book charges our interest to read until the inevitable slides under our eyes.  Very fine writing, this, and a terrific lesson in human kindness and tolerance.	2002-02-06
1674586:US	52496677	R1WT3WH2EJR7GP	1559703830	514611459	Dreams of My Russian Summers	Books	5	21	24	N	N	A durable masterpiece	Time alters all things.  The resultant changes can be decay, or tedium/passe, or at the opposite end of the spectrum the changes can be enhancing as a patina on fine wood.  Andrei Makine's DREAMS OF MY RUSSIAN SUMMERS has happily acquired a literary patina that makes this brief but crystalline memoir of childhood even more of a joy to read after a few years on the shelf.  Makine has the rare ability to weave wholly credible stories with unforgetable characters while at the same time measuring his prose like poetry.  We are to suppose this is an autobiography, but it is far more than the journey of a nascent writer becoming a man.  This is the essence of the Russian mind embellished by the great fortune of having early exposure to the beauty of France by means of recalling summers with Charlotte, a French born grandmother who nourishes the imagination and history of the writer to the point of delirium.  All that has happened to and in Russia from the time of the Tsars to the present is presented in such a way that the grisly realities are always balanced by the homage to love of fatherland.  Makine is a stunning writer and is still adding to our contemporary literature in ways that secure him a place among the geniuses of the word.  Read and indulge your mind and your senses!	2002-01-29
1691760:US	52496677	R2C19CIXI74W0B	0140287825	977269962	Death in Summer	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Wonder of Words and Moods	Death in Summer is one of the more appropriate titles for a novel I've seen in a while.  William Trevor is a gifted writer, one of characteristic styles that are fascinating, illuminating..yet with a dark view of the world that begs for light. The stories of three deaths, bizarrely interrelated in a strange English place, is only a superficial tease of what lies within and beneath this fine novel. The real passings are about the deaths of life views that occur when indescribable losses alter our lives.  Trevor has an uncanny ability to vary  his vocabulary/tone/philosophical views/visceral descriptions adjusted according to which of his myriad characters is relating a view of the story.  Whether the description of a garden is eloquent when from the mind and mouth of the gentrified owners of the mansion where the story takes place, or the interior of a cafe is puncutated with the glassy views of a declining, bosomy &quot;loose woman&quot;, or the stagnation of a squalid orphanage is regarded with acceptance by the ne're-do-well young folks of the street - with each of these disparate voices Trevor allows authenticity beyond the abilities of most contemporary authors.  At times his stream of conscious style of writing causes the need to retrace pages to make sure where we are, but that is a glory in and of itself.  THAT is how submerged the reader becomes when reading this fine book.  It has its own life!	2002-01-16
1704094:US	52496677	R1ISLIDEPZP7PD	0375706410	663303744	Waiting: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A deceptively simple tale	After reading Ha Jin's collection of short stories (&quot;Bridegroom&quot;), I eagerly anticipated visiting a full novel, more to see if this writer of succinct, crystalline prose could maintain interest over the course of a complete tale. &quot;Waiting&quot; succeeds on every level. Not only does his clarity of vision and description of the most minute bits of beauty in his created world remain intact, he caresses his reader with simple people, simple situations, simple outcomes that make the overall effect of his novels simply heroic. The story of the ideals and frustrations of waiting for the right way only to find at the end of the day that the waiting dislodged the pleasure of what was already in place - this simple lesson is universal, tender, heartrending, and wholly understandable. Ha Jin distills life into a prism of words that reflect and refract life. What a rewarding and refreshing writer he is. The National Book Award was justly deserved!	2002-01-07
1716029:US	52496677	RXA7JO7MDMY7D	0520227921	854550694	Spectacular Bodies: The Art and Science of the Human Body from Leonardo to Now	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A spectacularly successful foray addressing Science and Art	In this extraordinarily interesting book, a catalogue that accompanied an exhibition in England in 1999 - 2000, the authors and curators present figurative painting and sculpting in a fresh and original fashion.  Dipping into the engravings of Vesalius and the amazingly detailed wax recreations of anatomic dissections which populated Medical Schools for centuries, we are introduced to an art form that preceeded drawing from the model in the studio.  Never meant to be &quot;art&quot;, these dissection models were high science at the same time serving to &quot;glorify the magnificence of God's creation of man&quot;.  Whatever the initial inspiration, when placed side by side with the Renaissance paintings of the various anatomy lessons (such as the fmous Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Tulp) from Rembrandt through the 19th century to the present day explorations by the likes of Bill Viola and Tony Oursler they serve to enhance our understanding and appreciation for our own bodies as corporal science and as vessels of art.  What a fine exhibition this must have been!  Fortunately the thought vested in this significant collaboration  has been captured in time in the form of this beautifully illustrated and documented book.  Only one complaint:  Why was this luxurious volume printed only in paperback form?  This is an art book worthy of any artist committed to the figure and to all of us who admire figurative painting, sculpture and the wonder of the human form.	2001-12-29
1717158:US	52496677	RJJ7OSH3E1XUV	068817762X	216433293	Music for Torching	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Something to read to deflate your depression	A.M. Homes has once again written a novel that, despite all of its technical and philosophically grim tendencies, reads like the page turner we all seek out for escapism.  If we are to try to identify with her bizarre characters I think we miss the point. Homes creates well fleshed out id-actors who explore the regions of minds gone mad or corrupt.  She makes her neighborhood response to the initial immolation scene so wonderfully wild that we do actually believe that such edgey people could be our neighbors.  Just about every twist of the spectrum of &quot;crime&quot; is explored - pedophilia, arson, infidelity, brutality, fraud, alcoholism, etc. - and because all of these facets of maladaptive behaviour occur in acquaintances of the lead id-couple, they seem part of the landscape.  No, this is not the great American novel, but is certainly serves as a window through which we are invited to view the world as we have developed it in the 21st century.  Kind of scary, but more frightening...kind of funny.	2001-12-28
1730791:US	52496677	RHDE5IWTY8GD7	0385501560	729613164	Choke	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mr. Palahniuk's Wild Ride	Chuck Palahniuk continues to startle us with his unique voice in literature.  During a time when the world is at a peak of madness few of us ever dreamed, most of us seek solace in works of wonder, of wisdom, of elegance in writing - books such as the ones by the late, much missed WG Sebald, or Jose Saramaga, or Jim Crace, or Mark Doty.  But that level of this sublime needs comic relief.  And here is the wildest ride of mayhem, madness, and just plain imagination that one could encounter!<br />Reviewed so many times in this section, it is unnecessary to outline the characters or the plot. In ways, though they are succinctly and cleverly drawn, the people of this opus seem less important than the afterburn that follows reading &quot;Choke&quot;.  Sifted through this intricate maze of a sexaholic's dealing with his questionable heritage, his Alzheimer's stricken &quot;mother&quot;, his meanderings through countless sexual encounters and interactions with a hooty group of friends...sifted through this are eloquent musings on where we are today, members of a world gone nuts, and what we can do to survive it.  In Palahniuk's words: &quot;Every ddiction, she said, was just a way to treat this same problem.  Drugs, overeating or alcohol or sex, it was all just another way to find peace.  To escape what we know. Our education.  Our bite of the apple.  Language, she said, was just our way to explain away wonder and the glory of the world.  To deconstruct. To dismiss.  She said people can't deal with how beautiful the world really is.  How it can't be explained and understood&quot;.  Beautiful writing like this in the background of a story of mental mayhem is indeed wondrous.......and it makes this book very much worth reading for just about any-thinking-body.	2001-12-16
1736207:US	52496677	R38BR43VGL80UR	0679436154	851243413	The Diagnosis: A Novel	Books	4	13	17	N	N	A book too hastily dismissed	As is often the case with writers of the magnitude of Alan Lightman who set a benchmark such as his &quot;Einstein's Dreams&quot; early in their writing career, subsequent novels are placed under such intense dissection that they can fall by the wayside, establishing the author as a &quot;one note song&quot; man.  Reviews that disparage &quot;The Diagnosis&quot; can prevent many readers from the pleasures (?) to be found in this book.<br />Lightman has chosen a theme that is terrifyingly real in 2001: what happens to the cloned automatons that have been produced by this age of information?  The main character starts out as being very familiar to us all - a man driven by exacting time frames, scheduled advances in a competitive career involving computer inormation, depersonalization to the point of communicating with his son by email, subject to his wife's infidelity via an online romance. In his highspeed race to continue competing he suddenly confronts nature in the form of a mugging with resultant amnesia and deterioration of his nervous system (his prior overactive network of neurotic adaptation) and gradually the complete deterioration  of his physical body.  Forced to confront all the demons created by his parental Information Age Wizardry (organized Healthplans, physicians who realte to computer screens rather than the patient, colleagues who are quick to point out his diminished productivity, etc.), he liquifies into an angry helpless drooling and empty man.  His only real conection to the son he &quot;loves&quot; is via an email pirating of a Plato Online course.<br />This is a sad but too true evaluation of where we happen to find ourselves in this cold, distant world of instant information and gratification.  Lightman writes beautifully and many pages of this novel read with fine poetic perception.  But the main reason to read this excellent book is to become aware of just how much damage we have done to our spiritual life - before we each step into the shoes of Lightman's characters.  Sobering and insightful.shoes of Lightman's characters.  Sobering and insightful.	2001-12-12
1751582:US	52496677	R3FHZRWCR14GUQ	0312267460	538222637	Headlong: A Novel (Bestselling Backlist)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	What  a  frolic!	Michael Frayn is very current with his plays &quot;Copenhagen&quot; and &quot;Noises Off&quot; delighting audiences bicoastally.  His facility for words, whether placed in the mouths of actors or on the page of a novel, makes him a delight.  &quot;Headlong&quot; is a witty, erudite frolic with the protagonist being an obscure painting by Breughel owned by an naive country bumpkin and coveted by his apparent art historian friend.  Frayn has a solid quartet of main characters that bounce across his net offering both sides of a dilemma as to whether knowledge about art provides real ownership over mere possession of a &quot;pretty picture&quot;. Doesn't much sound like an interesting plot, but in Frayn's facile hands this novel becomes endlessly entertaining and funny and wise and .... successful. He makes the light touch of comedy drive home some rather intense points of justice.  A fun book for scholar and light reader alike.	2001-11-30
1768714:US	52496677	R2SLX9O1NS6GSY	1573228710	81768402	Still Here: Embracing Aging, Changing, and Dying	Books	5	18	19	N	N	This book contains the antidote for troubled times	Ram Dass has once again established his role as mentor for those who seek solace at times of despair. The world situation at present set aside, this book dares to raise a mirror to our mortal fear of aging and dying. But that mirror doesn't reflect sagging skin, bruised egos, and loneliness of marching toward demise. Quite the opposite. Ram Dass re-cycles his always potent understanding of Eastern philosophy and focuses those tennants on our preoccupation with remaining youthful. His patient reiteration of the diferences among Ego, Soul, and Awareness leads him into a very warm, personal, sensitive aura of learning to embrace aging and dying as processes within the framework of the cosmos. The fact that he has had a debilitating stroke makes his words of nurturing and care all the more credible. This man knows how to write/think/share in a way that makes the reader feel as though this book is a private session with the guru. His personal experiences are good humored, delicate, and poignant. Here is a book we all need to read, to share, and to join in the obligation to enlighten our fellowmen about the entire cycle of being. It is food for contemplation, for immediate advice on how to help ouselves and our friends deal with &quot;tragedy&quot;, and for sharing. Please read it.	2001-11-16
1769436:US	52496677	R2H2IFIMIWLF8O	0789306352	668283124	Male Nude Now: New Visions for the 21st Century	Books	5	29	32	N	Y	A thoroughly entertaining, valuable addition	David Leddick has moved from his prodigious gifts as a photographer to establish himself rather swiftly in the realm of art historian/commentator.  In &quot;Male Nude Now&quot; Leddick opens this well designed book with a terse essay and then lets the artists speak for themselves.  The subject: The growing acceptance and interest in the male nude as depicted by photographers, draughtsmen, painters and sculptors in the 21st century.  In placing his subject approach in chapters/divisions such as Experimentalists, Fantasists, Neoclassicists, Sensualists etc he attempts to emphasize various approaches to the male nude.  It works.  Though the dividing lines are vague, they do set up a dialogue for the viewer.  One of the most gratifying aspects of this book is Leddick's finely researched coverage of artists who appreciate and celebrate the male nude.  There are the well known artists such as Don Bachardy, Duane Michaels, Tom Bianchi, Michael Leonard, Chuck Close, David Hockney, et al - all represented by fresh works not visible in other books.  But it is his inclusion of such fine young talents as Wes Hempel, John Sonsini, Graydon Parrish, Wolfgang Tillmans etc that make this a voyage of discovery.  The reproductions are true, divided bewteen richly colored images and all phases of Black and White photographs.  And in keeping with the documentary style, he includes photos and bios of each of the artists he has selected.<br />This is a fine addition to the literature of art, to the dialogue of the ongoing struggle of presenting the nude male frontally that faces all artists (and viewers), and to the sophisticated art books that grace the libraries and coffee tables of sensitive people.  Bravo!	2001-11-16
1778306:US	52496677	R2WE3Z1VCQTNAI	0374100128	647099960	The Corrections	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	A long verbal purgative	Whether we like it or not, books are introduced to the public after previewers and reviewers pass judgment in the Newspaper Book Reviews, on talk shows, and on the very jacket cover of the book in question.  We are a media driven nation and despite our need to feel that we think for ourselves the media influences how we perceive art and literature more than we appreciate.  When was the last time you read a book that was a virginal experience between you and the author?<br />I read a glowing review of Franzen's new book and was assured that it was the great American novel of the century.  Suddenly it was #1 on the Best Selling List, due in part to the parlay between Oprah Winfrey and the author.  Gossip.  But by that time I had ordered the book and was stuck with reading it.  For some reason (prejudice from reviewers whose opinions I respect) I had decided that this was not going to live up to the hype.  In the end I have to admit that despite its weaknesses, The Corections is a good read.<br />Problems: Franzen is giving us yet another dysfunctional American family (one wonders if there are any non-dysfunctional ones out there) and pushes for nearly 600 pages through the morass of just why each member of this five person family is a loser.  This does not create a setting in which we can identify with a group of maladjusted people about whom it is hard to care.  If you stop with that premise then the book is a tedious waste of your time.  BUT..............stay with this book to the final &quot;perfect Christmas&quot; of the mother's dreams (a gathering of a clan tainted by the prodigal life outside the midwestern town of St. Jude) and you wil be rewarded with some fine writing.  Franzen may dally too long over describing scenes that are of minimal importance, may probe character defects below the level of tolerance, but step back and read how this fine wordsmith manipulates the English language and I think you'll have to agree that this tome is important.  All plodding aside, the story does move along and takes us all over the globe, tainted by the universal misuse of the atmosphere and planet surface that has become commonplace in 2001. And even if we don't really care about this cast of characters, their stories ring with a resonance of our current state of civilization that makes us stop, take notice, and hopefully undergo some self metamorphsis.<br />Isn't the purpose of art just that?  Isn't it more important that something creates enough controversy that we find ourselves actually communicating with each other about our strong subjective feelings?  Even if you end up not liking this story I don't think anyone can deny that Jonathan Franzen has created a book important enough to make us think and react.  And for that reason I think this is a fine book!ing aside, the story does move along and takes us all over the globe, tainted by the universal misuse of the atmosphere and planet surface that has become commonplace in 2001. And even if we don't really care about this cast of characters, their stories ring with a resonance of our current state of civilization that makes us stop, take notice, and hopefully undergo some self metamorphsis.  <br />Isn't the purpose of art just that?  Isn't it more important that something creates enough controversy that we find ourselves actually communicating with each other about our strong subjective feelings?  Even if you end up not liking this story I don't think anyone can deny that Jonathan Franzen has created a book important enough to make us think and react.  And for that reason I think this is a fine book!	2001-11-09
1794795:US	52496677	R5P46E8FVT2RK	0374138591	982971945	The Devil's Larder	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	An extensive and exhilarating menu	Jim Crace has done it again!  This author's richly faceted mind manages to find succinct stories from the most bizarre premises.  Whether he is re-telling the Jesus-in-the-wilderness tale from the bible, or exploring the decaying bodies of an older married couple to dissect their premorbid lives, or, as in this instance, pausing on any number of theme and variations on the food fugue, he is extraordinarily successful.  Why?  The answer lies not only in the fact that he has a startlingly rich fantasy life, but that he is a consummately fine writer.  Many of the 64 flights of fancy which comprise &quot;The Devil's Larder&quot; suggest free association thoughts that each of us encounters when a visual or gustatory or aural stimulus springs us forward into a sea of memory - stories read before, moments of orgiastic pleasure or flight and fright response.  Crace uses such streams of conscious associations and brings them to the table for our feasting. The stories (or thoughts written) at first seem to be completely unrelated, but just as it is difficult not to leave fingerprints behind on the history of our fantasies, Crace creates or encounters wholly believable  characters in the space of a few paragraphs or sentences and these creations are indelibly Crace.  What a craftsman....and what a writer.  These pages contain some of the most visual poetry being written today!  Where will he take us next?	2001-10-27
1797539:US	52496677	R39K6PP80WBWDC	0811213382	256202992	The Emigrants	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Walking the curve of the globe	WG Sebald continues to show us that his gifts as a writer are not only unique but are consistently fine.  Having read all of his translated books I find that I never offered my thoughts about &quot;The Emigrants&quot; on this platform.  Perhaps that is because after reading this powerful little tome I was speechless, or in awe, or felt inadequate to the task of commenting on a masterpiece.  Having just read &quot;Austerlitz&quot; I returned to the Emigrants to see if all the promise of what his latest book brings was present in his first translated volume.  Without hesitation ........... it is.  The Emigrants weaves the lives of four people who wander the terrain of postwar world in search of discovering their true past in that nightmare of history they have survived.  Sebald is eloquent in his use of language, spare in his style of writing, and wholly individual in his method of presenting not ony the word but related photographs to mimic the melange of fragments that piece together to form our histories.<br />He is simply one of the literary treasures of our day.	2001-10-24
1803979:US	52496677	R15F08VEK3DWPM	0375504834	316489894	Austerlitz	Books	5	154	161	N	Y	A completely breathtaking experience	For those readers fortuate enough to have read W.G. Sebald's inimitable novels \\"The Emigrants\\" and \\"The Rings of Saturn\\" this latest book by one of the most unique and important literary voices writing today will only add to the admiration building for Sebald and his hauntingly beautiful \\"Austerlitz.\\"  That the work was written in German and translated by the sensitive Anthea Bell somehow adds to the universal impact of Sebald's mind and peculiar technique of telling stories.  There are no paragraphs, no chapters, and only an occasional inch of space to bring pause to the writing.  True,  the technique of placing photographs of \\"fictional places\\" encountered by the writer's characters does allow some visual pause, but those pauses are purely additive.<br />Sebald writes about a man (Austerlitz) who despite his lushly satisfying intellectual life of an architectural historian finds himself in search of his roots.  That those roots were blurred by the atrocites of Hitler's Kindertransport program (Jewish children were sent to England by parents hoping for their safety as the wings of evil flapped menacingly in the air) only makes Austerlitz' journey to self discovery the more poignant.  His revisiting the sites of his true parents in Prague and Marienbad and Terezinbad, Paris, and Belgium produce some of the most beautifully wrought elegies found in the written word.  His walking among the horrors of the obsessive compulsive Hitlerian Final Solution Program is devasting in the way that only researching one's history from time-lapsed memories and visual stimuli can create.<br />Some readers may be put off by the intial rambling technique of getting to the journey that fills the first quarter of this book, not helped by getting adjusted to the pages-long sentences and lack of chapters or pauses.  But reflect on the fact that our own minds never stop when obsessed with the desire to know and understand our place in the universe and these inital trivial roadblocks will fade.  Eventually Sebald's style ... you into not only a story of great magnitude, passion, and tenderness, it does so with some of the most liquidly gorgeous prose you are likely to encounter.<br />This is the finest of Sebald's books to date.  Here is an incredible talent who, thankfully, is steadily producing one fine book after another.  Astonishing!fade.  Eventually Sebald's style ... you into not only a story of great magnitude, passion, and tenderness, it does so with some of the most liquidly gorgeous prose you are likely to encounter.<br />This is the finest of Sebald's books to date.  Here is an incredible talent who, thankfully, is steadily producing one fine book after another.   Astonishing!	2001-10-19
1804333:US	52496677	R3VYDN4NKSKO8T	0854491651	289047215	Changing Two: Drawings by Michael Leonard	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	The art is beautiful but the book is short on inspiration	Perhaps it is the &quot;let's get it all in here&quot; mentality of this book of Michael Leonard's drawings that diminishes the overall impact of what could be an elegant homage to a fine artist.  Or perhaps it is the scale of reproductions  and quality of transfer that makes this inherently tender book seem sterile.  But past these deficiencies there is much to savour.  Leonard draws beautifully, celebrating the male form in his own vision of honesty of observation that leads to sensually satisfying images.  He has been drawing and painting the male figure for years now and few can match his softly lighted men changing and stretching.  Others in his class include Wade Reynolds, Paul Cadmus, Charles Beauchamp and Claudio Bravo - each with his signature style making it patently obvious that the time to return to the male nude has finally arrived.	2001-10-19
1820990:US	52496677	R10PZ571DD2D5Q	155970571X	854678952	Requiem for a Lost Empire	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	A century distilled	Andrei Makine adds another laurel to his impressive writing career with the release of Requiem for a Lost Empire.  In this short book (250 pages) Makine surveys the past century of change in Russia from the fall of the Czars and the rise of the people, through Stalin and World War II, through the Cold War with its ominous KGB into today with the undercover lives of common men striving to retain the promises of Communism.  Makine does this seemingly incredible feat through the eyes of one family - sons and fathers who lived through the various phases of critical change that Russia (empire, USSR, etc) has undergone. In nonlinear fashion he draws multifacted, complex characters with flashbacks and flashforwards in a way that makes this less a  history book (though it is valuably one) than the novel it is.  And as if that weren't enough, Makine writes with a grace and poetry that suffuse his tale with lasting visuals and ominous grit.  That the author left Russia to live in France and has written all his books to date in Frence means that we are also experiencing the work of a master translator.  This little book is a gripping masterwork - highly recommended reading.	2001-10-03
1833398:US	52496677	R3DI90GS1KM4LK	0345441621	70261650	Among the Missing	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	An Author with Finger on America's Pulse	Among the plethora of short story collections that thankfully are gracing our bookstores and libraries Dan Chaon's &quot;Among the Missing&quot; is among the best. These beautifully constructed, elegantly conceived and written stories are rare insights into the alienation and angst that blankets our population. For decades the families of America have been disintegrating by divorce, by substance abuse, by diminished parenting skills and we are left with a landscape peopled by young and middle-aged men and women who find it increasingly difficult to connect to their roots, to any semblance of family history, to significant realtionships - primarily because of the lack of consistent and reliable role models. This is not to suggest that Chaon is bent on telling depressing yarns that exceed the realm of &quot;ususal people&quot;. Quite the contrary, he creates people and parent/child tales that sorrowfully inform us just how universal some of our own fears and insecurites are. Chaon is not a preachy author: he pulls us in to stories that hypnotize because of the astonishing degree of interestingly creative tales. He paints landscapes and houses and faces with such deft strokes that were it not for the fact that these stories are fiction he could be labelled a literary photo-realist. For all the inherent sadness in his characters we are never drowned in depression. Chaon can make sinister and sad memories somehow tender connections to people about whom we've grown to care very much. We all await his upcoming novel!	2001-09-21
1841805:US	52496677	R1EOGT4WQJ654	0802116922	482494437	On the Water	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The magic of superlative writing	When an author can create a completely absorbing novel, peopled with finely tuned characters that stir us with tension and competition and longing, a novel that uses as its base a sport that few readers know enough about to connect, then that author has displayed credentials of an impressive talent.  ON THE WATER spends alomst every page in the preparation, practice and execution of a two man crew boat.  He gradually pulls us into that boat with an understanding of the rules of the game and the rigors of the men who row. Then, subtly and with great tenderness he unveils his two young men of polar diferences and weaves a story of the power of sporting competion and the greater power of finding a soulmate.  This bonding between lower class gentile Anton and upper class Jew David is engineered by a German Doctor in 1939.  This beautiful story of an exploration of place and love is set in the last summer before Hitler destroys Europe.  We are left to guess the fate of David while we discover the solitary wandering Anton who tells the story five years later along the banks of the river where they spent the most beautiful time of their lives.  This novel gleams with magical poetry and introduces an author  (and translator) who seems destined to find an important role in the 21st Century of literature.  Read this book!	2001-09-12
1842414:US	52496677	RNFK9X428WIQG	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fulfilling a promise	Kathy Hepinstall's first novel &quot;The House of Gentle Men&quot; was an astonishingly fine first novel and sent up a red flag to those of us who are committed to reading first works. That book is a genuinely original work and the inevitable question &quot;Can she keep this quality of writing going?&quot; was posed.<br />Now comes &quot;The Absence of Nectar&quot; and all hints of an important writer promised in &quot;Gentle Men&quot; have been fulfilled. Hepinstall KNOWS how to tell a story, but more than that - she knows how to capture the full attention of her reader to the degree that beginning her books guarantees that you'll stay with it to the end in as short a time frame as you can find. She sculpts a widely divergent cast of characters, finds the spectrum of personality traits that are intensely credible, and weaves all aspects of these variegated personalites into a tight tapestry that ignores not even a trace of extraneous debris. This book is a fine thriller of a mystery, an incredibly tender exploration of a family in disarray, and one of the better examples of the midwestern coming of age tales of its kind. Some critics may strike out at the overuse of the dysfuntional family tale, but Hepinstall uses it not as the focus of her story but as that setting that makes her tale of terror completely believable. Closing your eyes after reading a portion of this story only provides a vivid replay of events on the screen of your eyelids. With &quot;The Absence of Nectar&quot; (and the choice of the title summarizes the tale so well) Kathy Hepinstall establishes herself as one of the fine young writers to watch rise.	2001-09-11
1847024:US	52496677	R3409XSMP914R7	0670894834	489187539	The Rose City and Other Stories	Books	5	9	10	N	N	An Insider's Understanding	David Ebershoff is one of the more exciting new writers of fiction on the scene today.  In his latest book of stories he proves that not only does he write well, but he also has that rare ability to create characters so real that we can swear that we've met them.  And this is all the more unusual in that the people he creates are far from heroic.  They represent that part in all of us that just borders on malfunctional, traits that if pushed further would be gross fodder for the mental hospital.  And yet he makes us care for them....passionately.<br />Ebershoff also firmly understands Pasadena, California - a strange place watched by millions on January 1 each year as a haven for beautiful flowers, purple mountains, palm trees, and terribly affluent people. Without resorting to disdain Ebershoff lets us get to know these sequestered relics from another time who refuse to move out of their historic importance into reality. He takes on the guise of the very young, the aging closeted divas, the used up street walkers and wanabe sex toys, and with each narrator voice he seems to be intuitively right on target.  This is a superb collection of stories from a writer who merits our close attention.  His next novel will be eagerly awaited by a growing devoted readership.	2001-09-07
1849627:US	52496677	R162ZZPOLTV8WM	8881582724	248034683	Appearance	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Step into the bizarre	APPEARANCE is essentially a catalogue of an exhibition in Bologna in 2000, an indepth survey of the works of the &quot;bizarrists&quot; Mariko Mori, Yasumasa Morimura, Luigi Ontani, Andres Serrano, Tony Oursler, and Pierre &amp; Giles.  Each of these interesting artists begin with photography and transform their worlds via costume, settings, art history, and a heavy dollup of kitsch.  The results are variably gratifying and self serving.  But at least they are always interesting!  The text is in both Italian and English and is informative while not probative.  A good selection to add to your fine art photography library, but chances are it will decorate your coffee table more than your reading desk...........	2001-09-05
1849899:US	52496677	R1HA00Q9QPTR5Y	0766820777	859199914	The Book of Alternative Photographic Processes	Books	5	31	36	N	N	The Scholar and the Artist in Perfect Synchrony!	Christopher James has been satisfying the art world for 20+ years now, combining his gifts as a photographer (who has been pushing the creative envelope all along) with his equally successful foray into the studio of the painter. In both areas Christopher has started with the keen observing eye. Representing what those investigating eyes have captured has always included experimenting with the medium: watercolors are painted on a paper ground that has been altered with gum arabic/graphite/jade resist and photographs that have been pulled through a Diana camera or glazed and adroitly enameled so that viewing becoms a three dimensional experience. But Christopher is also highly regarded as a short story writer and it is this last variation of his artistic temperament that makes his new book so successful.<br />This is an invaluable book, an exemplary resource text about Alternative Photographic Processes. But, and here is the Christopher James rule of thumb, this &quot;text&quot; is deliciously readable. Even for collectors who are looking for some degree of insight into the magic of the medium this book has much to offer. I found myself actually READING the text, not just paging through a beautifully designed tome on great photographs.<br />Highly recommended for the artists who need to know these techniques.........and equally highly recommended for those of us who marvel at the variations of contemporary photography.	2001-09-05
1854451:US	52496677	RU8WE68PAGFFV	0805066934	180610521	The Collected Stories of Richard Yates	Books	5	20	23	N	Y	Homage to a Master Writer	Richard Yates succeeds at fulfilling every accolade heaped on his output of writing. This collection of short stories is like owning a full library of novels by one author. Each story, whether familiar to us who have admired this master or newly discovered because of being previously unpublished, place Yates in the rarified air of brilliant American authors. Without the need for flashy technique or creating a Look &amp; Style or preaching to elipitcal minds, Yates spins touching tales simply, clearly, and with a polish that few others can mimic. Yes, his stories are about those parts of our lives that we all usually try to keep private: few of us (or his characters) like to relate our insecurities, disappointments, frustrated dreams. But Yates opens windows for us to view the common man at his most vulnerable, and never once does he offer excuses for the individual's humanity. &quot;We took risks. We knew that we took them. Things have turned out against us&quot; may be the words of a polar explorer, but they so aptly speak to the stoic way Yates' people accept their plights. Praise can be made for every story, no matter how short or how long. Reading this collection of gems is entertaining, but it is also a chance to look at the ordinary world in a more appreciative way. Drop the prejudices. Forget your own bias as to what happiness is. Just get to know these people and you'll get to know yourself in the process. Magnificent addition to every reader's library.	2001-09-01
1867166:US	52496677	R10TI6IY5M6PJ8	0415032806	373728510	Fully Exposed: The Male Nude in Photography	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A solid overview	Emmanuel Cooper in FULLY EXPOSED succeeds in presenting a history, a fine argument for photography as a Fine Art form, and then proceeds to take us on a picaresque journey through the various aspects of photography of the male nude.  There is much more here than meets the perusing eye.  Cooper includes the anthropologic studies made by investigating photographers, takes the lid off the cauldron of the controversy of &quot;documenting&quot; maleness and of medical oddities (which in other hands could be voyeuristic), and then proceeds to fill his meaty document with generous illustrations.  Cooper's writing style, while very informed, is casual and reader friendly.  A good addition to the photography lovers' library.	2001-08-22
1875038:US	52496677	R1HTLHLXWOKPD6	0500017654	908767378	Male Trouble: A Crisis in Representation	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	Fine scholarly document but lugubriously written	Abigail Solomon-Godeau is clearly a bright and well researched scholar.  She takes on the strange task of examining the evolving appearance of the male nude from virile to fey in paintings at the close of the 18th century and into the 19th century and finds in this path of thinking some fascinating insights into the core of feminism.  Her premises are sound, her arguments are strong.  She has devoted much time and skill into opening the door on a problem that continues to vex us - why are we so terrified to paint the frontal male nude now?  Her book slowly unfolds a well documented, well illustrated exploration of why the French Revolution and its aftermath gave impetus to the feminist movement and  why, in turn, the male nudes in the paintings of the previous centuries were feminized and subsequenty replaced by female nudes.....a situation that persists into 2001. My only reservations with this book is that it reads so slowly, due to the style of writing.  As a Doctoral Thesis this might be expected.  But for the art reader it is hellish work wading through much of the verbiage.  But, stick to it and you will be handsomely rewarded in the end.  This is one very bright lady who has added considerably to a festering question in representational art.	2001-08-16
1882199:US	52496677	R1SFJE7QQD15E0	0967059844	823604772	The Well-Fed Writer: Financial Self-Sufficiency As a Freelance Writer in Six Months or Less	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A private workshop with a Pro!	Peter Bowerman has one up on those who travel around the country presenting &quot;How To&quot; seminars.  In his imminently readable book &quot;The Well-Fed Writer&quot; he warmly, casually, and with just the right amount of anxiety-reducing humor takes the reader step by step down the path of discovering self employment as a Free Lance Copy Writer. And all this in the form a book that can easily be digested at the readers home, yard, bedside, etc. No stone is left unturned in his user friendly technique of distributing practical wisdom.  Much of what he discusses (how to introduce yourself to the COMPUTER AURA, how to employ gentility and assertive techniques in salesmanship, models for all manner of letters and forms, etc) is information that is generally useful to all of us who strive to be independent, self-employed people.  He even offers usable advice on how to price our services, how to network with co-workers, and insights into the classes of potential clients' thought processes.  This is a thoroughly enjoy read, as well as being a fine guide to business independence.  Highly recommended!	2001-08-11
1893324:US	52496677	R2VDI8RND28SIG	0448231689	840696951	The Nude Male: A New Perspective	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	A refreshing historical tour - the travails of the male nude	At a time in history where there seems to be a long overdue exploration of the male nude in art, here is a book written in 1978 by a woman who has not only done her art history homework, she has the ability to communicate fresh thoughts about chronic prejudices. Walters is a scholar and documents her book with copious footnotes, assuring us that we are not being delivered a personal agenda. But then, at the same time, she is not afraid to introduce commentary that is warmly humorous and at times scathing. Using a healthy number of illustrations of the works from each of the centuries she examines, Walters starts with Greek BC statues and the introduces painting, drawing, and finally photography as she marches us enlightenedly forward to the last part of the 20th Century. Unfortunately the illustrations are all in Black and White and are irritatingly paced at the end of each chapter making reading the text disrupted by flipping around to find the object being discussed. She is astute in evaluating the ups and downs of male nudity through time as the results of sociologic and philosophic attitudes in each century. She ends her book with a chapter on gay photos and a chapter on women who deal with the male nude. The book really doesn't come to a concluding statement........but perhaps that is intention: what will the 21st Century do with the Nude Male? A very fine book, worthy of your searching for out of print copies.	2001-08-03
1908757:US	52496677	R2RKCQQA5AGOMS	0151004218	77621968	All the Names	Books	5	69	71	N	N	A brilliant, addicting read	Jos&eacute; Saramago is a genius wordsmith.  To the novice opening a first book by this Nobel Prize winning Portuguese novelist, Saramago may seem a bit mad, if not just frustratingly bizarre.  Pages without paragraph indentations, with conversations unpunctuated or without speaker identified, no use of quotation maeks, abrupt changes of time and place within one ongoing endless sentence.  These impediments to reading a novel often tend to make the reader begin to simply scan the way through the book, hoping to find the end to this strange means.  BUT!  It is precisely the \\"means\\" that places Saramago in the category of Greatest Living Writers. (More than a little praise is due his able translator!!) \\"All the Names\\" is a journey of obsession by a Kafaesque little nobody who works in a metaphorical General Registry that houses all the names of those born, married, and died in an unknown land/place.  Saramago pulls us like a powerful magnet into this meticulously ordered conundrum and we are walking beside (and sharing the inner side of the skull of) a little clerk determined to place an identity of one unknown woman.  This is at once a journey through Existentialism, through the anonymity of living in the world today, a study of the depersonalization of society. Yet out of this microscopic examination of details we come to understand the significance of maintaining individualism, of finding connection, of fighting against a meaningless passage on this earth.  Though no one is named in this novel, save the main character, Saramago paints the peripheral characters with such clarity that names are the least important designators. This is not an easy read: many great books are not easy reads.  But the work required to stay with the author to the end is compensated by luxuriating in a wordbath that is found only in strolling through the process.  I think this is a brilliant book by a unique writer who has descovered a style of writing that only enhances his uncommonly interesting tales. Spend time here.  You'll be rewared in countless ways.ng tales. Spend time here.  You'll be rewared in countless ways.	2001-07-23
1917438:US	52496677	R3N4G3ZFCP426P	0671024256	44310359	On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Personal Weekend with Stephen King	I've not been a consumer of King's novels..they usually appear as movies so quickly that I just settled for that (and those movies are excellent - The Green Mile, Shawshank Redemption, Misery, etc).  It was the opportunity of discovering clues to the art of successful writing by one of the most popular writers in America that drew me to this book.  I think I will be reading Stephen King novels from now on!<br />This man has an uncanny way of drawing you into a story, whether that story be bizarre fiction, or a memoir on how he became as well read and published as he has become.  The opening section of the book seemed at first a little self-serving....details of his childhoood attempts to write, his growing into the career, the influences of his Important Reader (his wife) and his break into stardom.  Once this memoir is passed (and it reads so quickly because of his style) it is very clear why he has started this book on Help for Incipient Writers in this way.  All of his &quot;teaching&quot; is so grounded in reality, common sense terms, usuable information. His tutorials in the &quot;dos and don'ts&quot; of writing make such good sense and immediately start to repair previous mindsets and writer's blocks in writers of every degree of experience.  This is pure, no nonsense, practical-as-the-state-of-Maine information that is so digestible and useful: you bond with this man in such a positive way that finishing the book stirs the need to go back and re-read it for a refresher course. I wondered why he chose to end the book by going back to memoirs.  But in that last short chapter he reveals again why he is a writer, why he loves the act of writing, how he overcomes obstacles to continue his craft, and how agian he is able to motivate his reader/student into commiting to the craft of writing.<br />This is a fine read, a practical help to everyone who wants to write better, and an homage to the art of writing.  Feels like I just had a private weekend with Stephen King, in his corner, taking in his interesting life and his intuitive techniques on writing. What a fortunate use of my time!ng, in his corner, taking in his interesting life and his intuitive techniques on writing. What a fortunate use of my time!	2001-07-16
1919298:US	52496677	R3AGUQTVNT30TI	0970802005	12705130	Friends	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The power of this work is in the honesty	FRIENDS by Adam Raphael is as refreshing a book of new photography as you are likely to enconter.  Though Raphael photographs fashion, sports/fitness, children, portraits both single and of couples, here he captures in almost chapter format his male friends.  And the friends make excellent &quot;models&quot; not so much because they appear to know how to react to a camera: they success of this portfolio is the apparent warm relationship of honesty between the photographer and subject. As Raphael says in his all too brief Forward, these sessions for each friend lasted from twenty minutes to several days.  The quality of the images is superb, the design of the book is clean and crisp, and the impact of re-reading FRIENDS is that we have encountered a photographer about whom we will doubtless hear more!	2001-07-14
1921268:US	52496677	R1JPBOUHJ744YF	3861870924	20794010	Massengill Men	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Frank, Honest, and Refreshing	Gradually, with the fine art stature achieved by photography, we are begining to see the male body in unashamedly homoerotic contexts.  Reed Massengill has gathered a bevy of beautiful young men, asked them to relax and enjoy the sensual pleaure of their youthful bodies, and recorded this activity with simple, casual, quiet elegance.  No manipulation here for artsy looks (gimmicks, overly dramatic lighting, fetishism).  These are simply beautiful men enjoying being beautiful.  Books like this help us overcome the national double standard of &quot;nudity is OK in advertising, TV, movies, but NEVER put it into art form&quot;.  Humbug!	2001-07-13
1922508:US	52496677	R31YSGB7LXTDML	0946708347	326379367	Rustin	Books	5	3	3	N	N	At least we have this	Edward Lucie-Smith has long been a champion of the Belgian artist Jean Rustin.  Until recently there was a very impressive (in size and content) monograph of Rustin's paintings and drawings by Lucie-Smith, but unfortunately that wondrous volume is out of print.  For those who are unfamiliar with the art of Jean Rustin, this little book  will be a fine starting point.<br />Rustin limits his subject matter to figures seemingly incarcerated in mental institutions or old folks homes.  Rustin doesn't pity these elderly people of questionable mental capacity; his paintings are tender, a bit voyeuristic at times, and explicit. His people seem to seek solace with each other, explore their bodies together and alone, seem sad and yet somehow complacent with or resigned to their plight.  The drawings shown here are good, but the paintings not shown are more poignant.  Rustin is not at all well known in the USA but should be.  In a time when we are groping with our inevitable mortality, when we are producing a prolonged life spans that will fill retirement homes, Rustin's commentary seems particularly piquant.  And as usual, Lucie-Smith pulls focus to an important painter with his terse commentary.	2001-07-12
1923284:US	52496677	RR2FWGQKA2OEP	0714835447	218434969	The Age of Elegance (Phaidon Miniature Editions)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	But what about scale?	One of the magical aspects of the portraits of John Singer Sargent is his cholce of scale.  At times his Grande Dames were painted larger than life, his bon vivants narrow and elongated like the models themselves.  Here all is compressed into home photograph size, as though these were taken during a visit to an exhibition in a crusty museum.  But the joy of having so many of Sargent's elegant people  greatfully reproduced in rich color and on fine quality paper makes the size more tolerable.  And it is fitting to have the &quot;commentary&quot; be conversational Henry James parcels, since they were very close friends.  This is not the definitive Sargent book, but until the price of the larger volumes is more accessible, this little book is a joy.	2001-07-11
1923545:US	52496677	RUYJHXBF4KAAJ	0312192843	571299369	Outrageous: The Photographs	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Purely for fun	Asked to give my opinion on this book by a reader of these reviews, I obtained the book and &quot;read&quot; it.  There really is very little to read....more magazine copy to titillate and keep the romp through these photos of contemporary pop icons rolling. Actually, once past the fact that this is not a serious message book or startle book or pretentiously arty book, this is a fun collection of stars having a campy hoot of a time.  The photography isn't always that great, but the mood is.  Definitely fluff category stuff, but fun at that!	2001-07-11
1923629:US	52496677	R2CCXZ1JDSV6P0	0789302616	922905706	John Singer Sargent: The Male Nudes	Books	5	10	13	N	Y	The glory of the nude male revealed despite the times.....	John Singer Sargent is admired as one of this country's premiere portrait artists and museums clamor for any new Sargent that comes on the auction block.  His stately Edwardian ladies and gentlemen are elegance personified.  Yet as we slowly discover the  private lives and portfolios of some of our nation's brightest lights in painting, we uncover other aspects of their gifts.  Sargent's Male Nudes are here displayed in all their brilliance of line and tenderness of demeanor that only emphasizes Sargent's fondness for the male figure.  Though the author (John Esten) does not dwell on the evidence of these homoerotic drawings and paintings, he gently offers the works themselves in the same context with the works of Thomas Eakins and the literature of Henry James and allows us to piece together the private, closeted lives they all shared.  This is a brief but elegant and tender collection of works that deserve a much wider audience.	2001-07-11
1924685:US	52496677	R3RDOICDE5WX7R	0299170705	261684947	Loss Within Loss: Artists in the Age of AIDS	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Far more than a collection of elegies	LOSS WITHIN LOSS is a most appropriately titled reminiscence of the black hole AIDS blasted in our art community.  Edmund White, always the sensitive observor and writer of tender memoirs, takes on the role of Editor here and has selected some very fine writers to personalize the contributions and deaths of their friends.  He has also written minibiobraphies of not only the artists who have been lost but also of each of the biographers.  Selecting artist/bigraphers to highlight in a review of a book of this total force seems almost incongruous, yet Chris DeBlasio is so beautifully defined by William Berger, and the polarities of the lives and deaths of Paul Monette and James Merrill who died within four days of each other are so adroitly observed by their mutual firend J.D. McClatchy, and Felice Picano's warm eulogy for Robert Ferro and all that surrounded the Violet Quill Club are all so fine that they shine especialy brightly.<br />The unexpected joyful aspect of spending time with this extraordinary book is discovering how much we didn't know about so many artists in every field - from poetry, to novels, to puppets, to architecture, to dance.  Yes, the names ring distant bells, but when the artists are put into context with the time in which they were creating AND that they were creating knowing that their corporal time was limited, the effect is staggering. I do not find this book at all morose; if anything it is celebratory.  And the method of presentation and quality of writing leaves the reader with one primary question:  What if AIDS hadn't destroyed so many brilliant minds, so many unborn ideas? As a document on the effect of  a devastating disease on the arts and as a resource book of what was happening in the forefront of culture in the 1980s and 1990s, this book will be the gold standard. Highly recommended reading  - on so many levels.	2001-07-10
1925775:US	52496677	R2IG2OUUWXFVEZ	0500276757	163820001	Frank Auerbach	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An indepth look over the painter's shoulder	Franz Auerbach, though well known in circles where figurative painting is important, has never pulled the attention of the art world in the way he should.  Robert Hughes tends to that oversight in his definitive monograph on this puzzling artist.  With insight and a true sense of kinship with the work, Hughes explains and then illustrates why Auerbach is worthy of admiration.  Few artists can pull the figure onto the canvas surface the way Auerbach can, using what seems to be the crude pushing of pigment with palette knife and heavy brush.  But these expressionistic faces groan with angst or shout their heroic stature powerfully.  This is in every way a fine book dealing with a superb artist.	2001-07-10
1937121:US	52496677	R2TH6DQYYAUHGS	0807066087	977220568	Still Life With Oysters and Lemon: On Objects and Intimacy	Books	5	30	32	N	N	A seamless merging of painting and poetry	Mark Doty has done the impossible. In STILL LIFE WITH OYSTERS AND LEMON he has not only written an extended essay (read epic poem) about his encounter with a simple Dutch Still Life painting, but he has also produced what must become the definitive map for looking, seeing, studying and describing the essence of art in a way that encourages us all to return to the pursuit of beauty. Doty has proved his credentials in art hisory and art technique so that he is able to find the essence of a still life, rhapsodize on the quality of light as captured by an everyday object that makes a centuries old painting seem immediate to our own home, and in doing so reveals his own history of memories, lovers, favorite objects, the passage of time as participants in the transitory moment we call life.  So many art critics and art historians have attempted to find this plane of understanding and enlightment with only minimal degrees of success. As a curator and essayist about art I am humbled and in awe.  Mark Doty is one of the finest poets in America today and knows his way with words, with phrases that illuminate his stances, with defining emotions inaudible to most of us.  But this small book is more than an homage to a particular still life painting (though on that merit alone he wins the competition!).  This is a tender, thoughtful journey toward discovering beauty that daily surrounds us, a call to accept the transitory nature in all things and to experience them while we may.  No fatalism here, just a door opened to appreciate the cycle of being alive...which just happens to warmly include the aspect of dying as part of that totality. As in Still Life painting: artists have selflessly recreated moments precious to them, frozen them in time to stave off the finite, and in doing so have left us with miraculous images to incorporate into our psyches for perpetuating beauty.  This book is a must for art students, for art lovers, and for everyone who yearns to understand the journey of the soul. As Doty informs us, paraphrasing poetry or a painting as focused as a still life is impossible; by nature the essence has been distilled.  Writing a review of such a book is near impossible.  Gift yourself with a book to which you will return as often as the author has returned to Still Life with Oysers and Lemon!ey of the soul. As Doty informs us, paraphrasing poetry or a painting as focused as a still life is impossible; by nature the essence has been distilled.  Writing a review of such a book is near impossible.   Gift yourself with a book to which you will return as often as the author has returned to Still Life with Oysers and Lemon!	2001-07-02
1939498:US	52496677	R1LU8OG4BZUMQ8	1573225819	443693985	Sex Death Enlightenment: A True Story	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A book for everyone who seeks to know life	Mark Matousek is a brave man and a generous heart.  This true story of his tragic childhood, his escape into trading/selling his body for semblances of love, his entry into the chaos of the corporate world of New York with all the attendant singes of dermal pain and empty heart, his jogging into AIDS territory personally and in the loss of loved ones.......all of this journey must have been difficult to tell.  But then he begins his odyssey of finding spiritual enlightenment and everything written before appears as preparation for his enlightenment.  That Matousek writes well is a given here, and has been further substantiated in his subsequent books (like The Boy He Left Behind), and because of his finely honed skills this book steps beyond the too frequently published &quot;self-help genre&quot;. SEX DEATH ENLIGHTENMENT could easily be a novel, so interesting and beautifully developed are all the characters at play here.  The fact that this is one man's true journey toward entry into the spiritual world just makes it that much more engrossing.  Though once on the bestsellar lists around the world, it seems that there should be a word of mouth compaign to bring people back (and find new readers) to this very special book.  This writer has given us what really could be the discovery of a  truely brave new world.  Recommended as an inspiring guide to those who seek to truly know life and the connectedness of us all.	2001-06-29
1939790:US	52496677	R1OGTBOAC5ZTI8	8203222722	548503371	Odd Nerdrum: Storyteller and Self Revealer	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Look no further than this	If you're an inquisitive art lover and want to gain insight into the mind of controversial contemporary figurative artist Odd Nerdrum, this is the volume to buy.  Not only does the author, Jan Ake Pettersson, write well: he has done his homework.  But re-reading this monograph repeatedly makes the written word so secondary to the way the designer of the book has opened up Nerdrum's puzzling canvases by giving us many &quot;detail&quot; pages of the paintings.  We are allowed to dissect the paintings not only for their symbolism and recurring existential themes, but we are also encouraged to examine brushwork, palette choice, and methods of depicting light that truly gives us the whole picture.  The subtitle of the book &quot;Storyteller and Self-Revealer&quot; sustains Pettersson's approach.  While many critics are beginning to take a second look at the repetitive tendencies in background landscapes and even in the use of twinned images, etc, Nerdrum's force as a painter can always be felt.  He does communicate, whether we want to know the story or not.  The book is filled with Nerdrum's copious self-portraits and studying these alone is a solid way to explore this artist's progress.  A very special volume with beautiful details and colors.	2001-06-29
1939832:US	52496677	R1P6S2LWMQ75G6	0847805816	848476019	The Male Nude: A Modern View : An Exhibition Organized by Francois De Louville	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A worthy topic  that demands more investigation	The Male Nude: A Modern View by Edward Lucie-Smith is actualy a high end catalogue for an exhibition curated by Francoise de Louville that enjoyed a London run from 1983-1985.  As is generally the case with books published by Rizzoli International, the design and color reproductions are of the highest quality.  Lucie-Smith's opening essay is informed and well written but it also shows signs of some censorship that usually tarnishes public exhibition catalogue writing.  More &quot;meat&quot; about the long standing reluctance to present full frontal male nudity in exhibitions would have made for better reading.  The art ranges in quality from sublime to barely acceptable, but in the case of the latter, the paucity of painters to portray male nudity is unfortuantely limiting.  There are many discoveries to be made here.  While we all are familiar with the works of Kitaj(as painted by Sandra Fisher), Harry Holland, Michael Leonard, David Hockney, and Leonard Baskin, it is special pleasure to encounter the beauty of works by Paul Guest, Anne Yvonne Gilbert. Maggi Hambling, Yeo Kim Seng, and David Hutter, to name but a few.  The ongoing prejudice against showing the male nude, much less devoting an exhibition and qualiy book about it, can only make us hope that another such exhibition/book will be planned here in the United States and challenge all artists to address this unfortuately tabboo subject!	2001-06-29
1939943:US	52496677	R38UHG9Y4U8EUH	0810969130	527818410	Vilhelm Hammershoi 1864-1916: Danish Painter of Solitude and Light (Guggenheim Museum Publications)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	The joy of discovery	I wonder how many art collectors and even scholars have had the pleasure of encountering the work of Vilhelm Hammershoi.......This Danish painter (1864 - 1916) discovered his own form of impressionism and figure painting  out of the main stream of world renowned painters.  Yes, people who know Scandanavian art surely are familiar with this master, but how can the rest of us be conversant about the likes of Edvard Munch and not have had the introduction to this master painter?  This wondrous volume fills a gap for all of us.  Hammershoi has been compared to Vermeer for his uncanny sense of light, shadow, and composition.  Just browse through the pages of this stately volume and drink in the atmosphere of the dark interiors and architectural renderings of Denmark's buildings and towns and bridges.  His figures often face away from us as though the nearby window or other sensitive light source were more significant than their face.  His palette is limited to umber/sienna/brown,black/white with only the ocassional use of warmer tones.  But how these paintings illumine us! Hammershoi is in that rare class of painter with Antonio Lopez Garcia - two men who reveal our world to us as though we had never seen it. An utterly elegant and quiet monograph.  Highly recommended.	2001-06-29
1940484:US	52496677	RMT96VR5HGBLX	0500275351	354793344	Lucian Freud Paintings (Revised Edition)	Books	5	48	50	N	N	A definitve monograph	Every great artist deserves a great biographer: Bacon had David Sylvester, Giocometti had Sylvester AND James Lord, and Lucien Freud has Robert Hughes.  Hughes' generous text is richly detailed and captures the mood of Freud's heavily impastoed works with turns of phrase that become as important as the art.  To see the change in Freud's technique and approach to the figure from his early works to his current larger than life theatrical style is jolting.  Always commited to portraiture his paintings have grown from the tightly surfaced, tiny but well known head of his friend Francis Bacon, to his current full figures as viewed from bizarre vantage.  His brush technique has become more coarse and in doing so he is creating figures that, while monumental, feel as thogh they pulsate on the canvas.  Freud is one of the important painters of our time and this book justifies that position on every level.  A scholarly - yet pulsatile - study of a modern genius.	2001-06-29
1946512:US	52496677	R147ALN9FU07L8	1885516061	877760547	Echo Park	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A  surprisingly fine , Felliniesque novel about Los Angeles	ECHO PARK, a culturally rich oasis in the midst of spralling downtown Los Angeles, has just been immortalized in a terrific new novel by Steve Scott.  Rich in color, scents, sights, and character, this first novel is a joy.  Scott writes in a nonlinear fashion that at times takes the reader a little too far off track, but when he brings it all together it is clear that this is a unique view of a unique place.  Narrated by  a gentleman whose closest ally is his telescope (Mr Peepers), we are given a view of Echo Park with all the beautiful bridges, boats, lotus blossoms, and the hookers, hustlers, cops, and assorted oddballs that keep this hotpot bubbling to the very last page.  Scott introduces myriad characters - a masturbating priest, the ladies of the Midnight Son who ply their bodies at the Suku Suku bar, the Pastime Jocks of the Armpit Lounge (a collection of bizarre older gay men), and the abused but salvaged hooker Charo who is the pivotal character bringing the explosion of colorful happenings together.  At times the author allows his surreal fantasies to confuse the storyline, but his poetic imagery is so lush...and so much fun !...that this minor flaw is quickly overlooked.  In the end this Fellini-type cinematic story finds meaning in each of the characters lives/roles, and with the narrator's final letters to his departed friend - Neurotica Jones - summing up a life as viewed through a balcony telescope, we are left caring very much for all the folk of Echo Park.  This is a very fine first novel and I encourage everyone who is fascinated with the madness of Los Angeles, in all its mixed ethnic splendor, to jup on for a wild and satisfying ride!	2001-06-24
1948052:US	52496677	R2UNYP2YMYXNIE	0823018407	533554419	Flora: Gardens and Plants in Art and Literature	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Perfect Blend of Art Imitating Nature	Edward Lucie-Smith has done it again!  In this new book FLORA he explores a subject as history, and tells that story with very fine writing and with an emphasis on fine art to illustrate his thoughts. This is as fine a tour of the history of man and his garden as you will find. Beginning with ancient gardens as vistas of Paradise, he traces chapters on Sowing and Reaping, The Language of Flowers, Nature and the Traveler, Arcadian Landscapes, personal garden plots, and Imaginary Realms.  Well researched and eminently readable (as are all of Lucie-Smith's books), this volume is a cornucopia of paintings by Monet, Van Gogh, Watteau, Alma-Tadema, Archimboldo, Bosch, Renoir, and Gauguin with a thoroughly delightful mixture of equallly fine paintings by such contempoary artists as John Nava, Martha Mayer Erlebacher, Wes Christensen, Hunt Slonem, Robert Bissell, Jacquelyn McBain, David Ligare and many others.  FLORA is a welcome addition to this series of small books which nave included DOG, CAT, SEX, HORSE, ZOO, ADAM, etc.  This is bound to delight both the art lover and the passionate gardener and will surely be a book for every coffee table, solarium and library.  Highly recommended!!!	2001-06-23
1960146:US	52496677	R27I15YBTCRZMR	0520215397	429123050	Francis Bacon: The Human Body	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	A marriage of words and paintings	David Sylvester is one of the finest biographers of contemporary painters on the shelves today.  His insights into such obtuse minds as Giocomettti and de Kooning and Francis Bacon have brought us, the viewer and thinker, closer to the real synapses at work.  In this lavishly illustrated catalogue the emphasis is on the whole human body - alone, in confined spaces, distorted and reassembled in triptychs.  Sylvester opens this format with terse discussions about particular paintings, using only black and white details of the works he is discussing.  Then, once we have the groundwork established, the last half of the book is simply the paintings, printed on the finest peper, with foldouts that do justice to the triptychs and color separations that are as near to the originals as is possible.  A feast for the eyes and mind....and imagination.	2001-06-13
1960227:US	52496677	R30D0REYCD91HJ	0500274754	375895371	Interviews with Francis Bacon (Subsequent)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A fly on the wall	There are some writers who are able to capture the essence of an artist through the interview format (James Lord's sitting for Giocometti is one) and in this book David Sylvester plumbs the depths of Francis Bacon's psyche like no other writer to date.  Not only is his short book brilliantly executed in drawing out the artistic temperament and the especial qualities that chewed every aspect of Bacon's rich brain, it also allows us to sit back and hear the very personal aspects of Bacon's life, aspects that are occult in his cryptic paintings.  This is reportage at its zenith.  The big difference here is that Sylvester writes so well that the atmosphere is palpable - as though we were the fly on the wall.  Brilliant, just brilliant.	2001-06-13
1960428:US	52496677	R1SDL35PHN9LAU	0810940116	718715373	Francis Bacon	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Magnum Opus	Well, here it all is - the paintings, the analysis of the person, the milieu that aided in the production of this prodigious artist, brilliant essays that go further than predessors into the hows and whys of Francis Bacon - the much anticipated Retrospective book and exhibition.  One of the finest aspects of this book is the placement of descriptions of the background and the implications of each painting adjacent to the work.  No search party needed here.  If only as much attention to detail would have been spent on the four color separations of the works then this would truly have been the definitive work about one of the most exciting painters of the last century...AND chronicler of the disintegration of society and mentality brought about by the dissecting sciences.	2001-06-13
1960514:US	52496677	RPD55GC1L8GP5	0688094597	839379616	A Quick Kiss of Redemption and Other Stories: & Other Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	More Respect in Retrospect	After being deeply impressed with Means' ASSORTED FIRE EVENTS I needed more.  This book is out of print, having met with lukewarm reviews when it was published in 1991.  Well, there ARE copies available and I would urge any reader who treasures the art of short stories to find a copy.  All of the seeds of the brilliant new book (Assorted Fire Events) were planted in A QUICK KISS... - it just took some time for the seeds to grow into the significant product now before us.  Means is an enormously gifted author, a fertile mind with imaginative flights of fancy that push the envelope of bizzare and nihilism, a writer who can find in the most unlikely characters reasons for uncovering universal truths and universal fears.  Most of these stories seem like childhood remembrances of life in the midwest, but I doubt any are autobiographical in that they are packed with unusually strange characters.  Means delves into adolescent struggles with coming of age, the shock of discovering family secrets, observance of paranormal events, and every time he comes up with a unique story that while it completely informs us, it also trails off in the end like an invitation to follow the author to the next strange happening. I think this David Means is a brilliant mind and I hope he will consider gifting us with a full fledged long novel.  But for now, he sits with the royalty of gifted short story writers - from any time in history.  I can't recommend this Means higly enough!	2001-06-13
1960665:US	52496677	R2TQJPHYTMBN9A	0874776945	173898034	The Artist's Way: A Spiritual Path to Higher Creativity	Books	5	19	21	N	N	A journey to the summit	Many &quot;self-help&quot; books are often quick reads that give us a moment of stimulation, a swift kick in the direction of changing things, make us commit to a project that &quot;we'll start tomorow&quot;, only to get buried in the business of living a life of maintenance that begs not to be crowded with more lists.  THE ARTIST'S WAY just simply is not in that category.  Julia Cameron has presented the serious, spiritually directed person with a way to make significant change in the way we perceive the world....and more importantly in the way we perceive ourselves as a significant part of that world.  The book is meant to unlock the creative artist within us. I think one of the best ways to approach this marvelous little tome is to just browse through it as a book, in one evening, just to get the lay of the land.  THEN, if you feel commited to positve change in your life, start from page one, follow her path to the letter, and then - see if your image still fits into one mirror!  This is an amazing, enriching, satisfying, warming pathway to self discovery....and worth the amount of commitment it takes.  Thank you Julia Cameron!	2001-06-13
1960690:US	52496677	RMLY3Q4FC3JWX	0813335205	82162407	Francis Bacon: Anatomy Of An Enigma (Icon Editions)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Under the carpet view	Michael Peppiatt has resources for his book that defy belief.  Francis Bacon was indeed an enigmatic person and artist and I suppose that the lurid details of his existence may shed some light on the paintings.  But not, I think, to the degree that the author would have us believe.  Some of the most glorious works of art have been created by personalities who border on beastial (Richard Wagner, Diego Rivera, Rodin et al) and so I suppose that knowing that Bacon was night gutter tramp may illuminate some of his portaits.  The book does add to the literature on Bacon by introducing a number a fascinating photographs and for the reader who needs to know it all, well here is that cluttered closet.	2001-06-13
1960776:US	52496677	R2AHQ4XFMQ1MTE	0195201132	39572246	Francis Bacon (World of Art Series)	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	A different slant	John Russell wrote this &quot;biography&quot; while Francis Bacon was very much alive and tends to emphasize the influences on Bacon's work more from an environmental standpoint than an art historian view.  But to jump into Bacon's raucous life &quot;in medias res&quot; is a gift that now can be savoured, like picking the grapes off the vines that in years to come will become a fine vintage wine.  A diversion, and only in black and white reproductions, but a rather important comment in retrospect.	2001-06-13
1960882:US	52496677	RB0QN5D878854	3791316648	510803911	Francis Bacon : Commitment and Conflict (Art & Design)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Definitive Volume	Of all the books in print about the works of Francis Bacon, so many of them can be browsed without paying much attention to the commentary.  Not here.  This volume is extravagantly illustrated with many lesser known paintings by Francis Bacon, but it doesn't stop there.  There is a very fine chronological timeline with photographs which show us the progression of the artist, his friends, lovers, influencing photographs, and interactions with other artists of his day.  There is also a complete Exibition Schedule which holds some fascinating bits of information even to the avid Bacon fan. There are many photographs of Bacon's infamous studio in all its squallid splendor - some with the artist, some after his death.  For sheer joy in getting to know a troubled genius, this book should be high on the list of recommended texts.	2001-06-13
1960929:US	52496677	R352AU0I5KVK4	0500092664	621090962	Bacon: Portraits and Self-Portraits	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Face Off	Francis Bacon jolted the art world in a way that is only now, some nine years after his death, being fully appreciated.  During the final years of his bizarre life he achieved fame and museum acceptance and the accompanying high figure prices for his canvases.  And of course soon after his death there was the usual debate about whether he was a painter or a one note song. This beautifully presented volume seems to dispell the latter, as here is documentation of all the head-only portraits Bacon painted of his friends and of himself.  His usual &quot;brutal vision&quot; seems less forced when the paintings are accompanied by photogrphs of the models:  some of Bacon's friends were fairly distorted before his brush hit the canvas!  This book allows the reader to examine a narrow part of Bacon's output and in doing so focuses keenly on his view of the world, his pallete and his technique.  Very fine essays by Milan Kundera and France Borel enhance this sensitive tribute to one of the more important 20th Century figurative painters.	2001-06-13
1961080:US	52496677	R1YB66I68979BN	1854372807	156855742	Francis Bacon: Working on Paper	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Secret Vices	This short book served as a catalogue for an exhibition at the Tate in London in 1999 and is one of the more sensitive explorations into Francis Bacon's artistic thoughts.  Though known to approach unfixed canvas (in his much talked about trashy studio) with brush and paint and palette knife in hand and attack his story until it was complete, Bacon actually spent a considerable amount of time sketching ideas which often became his huge scaled painting.  David Sylvester opens this Pandora's box with a pithy introduction and Matthew Gale presents a sophisticated, scholarly examination of this heretofore unknown aspect of Francis Bacon.  The plates of the sketches, all included in the atalogue, prove startling even to the most ardent Baconophile.  This is a treasure chest of nascent thought and aborted ideas.....and makes for splendid reading.	2001-06-13
1966418:US	52496677	R2Y8JM5FKX2J9R	0316588741	885138585	Demonology	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A literary catharsis	Rick Moody is a major talent, so major that placing him in the context of other contemporary writers is difficult at best. Moody is Moody and he is either your cup of tea or he's not.  His style of writing is kaleidoscopic.  In this volume of thirteen short stories we are treated to a taste of what makes him so diverse, so fine a taleteller.  From his complexly mesmerizing, rambling story in &quot;Mansion on the Hill&quot; to the terse three page &quot;Drawer&quot; to the hilarious take on a chronic loser in &quot;The Double Zero&quot;,  Moody's style pushes us along into places we'd sometime rather not go were it not for the brouhaha of the sales pitch of the author.  I found some of the stories mannered, some a touch labored by writing gimmicks (must we be warned that evil or tragedy lurks behind the next page?.  But this guy knows people and the bizarre American Gothic twisted humor that underlies much of our relationships.  He tackles social issues, moral issues, foibles, stodgy thinking and just about every  method of fantasy/memory that we use to button our past......and he makes it all interesting, even while we are embarassed to admit that we relate to his characters.  This collection is yet further proof that Rick Moody is a force to contend with in contemporary American literature.  Try it!	2001-06-09
1966670:US	52496677	R7CF3W2SAL9UH	0140263098	443510634	The Names of the Dead	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Dealing with incurable illness	Stewart O'Nan plunges the reader into the chambers of horrors that are the aftermath of Vietnam.  He understands the razoredge tension of being underfire, the hopelessness of being without the security of even minimal coping that eats the brains of many Vietnam Vets, and  he knows the vagaries of the promised paths of healing from physical and mental war wounds.  Some writers describe actual moments of battle contact better than O'Nan but few dig into the battle rattle that so chronically impaled the men and boys who came home from Vietnam.  And with all this ammunition on board, O'Nan has written a very fine novel that is, yes, grounded in the sequelae of war, but succeeds in unraveling a fascinating story of at least one man's survival.  This is a pithy book and deserves to be placed on the shelf along with O'Brien, Caputo, Turner and the other fine writers who still struggle to make sense out of the irrational Vietnam error.	2001-06-09
1974010:US	52496677	R23H4LCC4WAGHQ	0062513222	116022216	The Art of Living: The Classic Manual on Virtue, Happiness, and Effectiveness	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	Keep this on your bedstand	Some people rely on medication (alcohol, tranquilizers, sleeping pills), or mindless television programs, mystery novels, or meditation to escape the traumas of daily living.  Anything that is outside our control can be quashed, submerged or forgotten if only we can get to sleep.  But here is a tiny book that will change all that for you.  Sharon Lebell's \\"updated\\" version of the philosophy of Epictetus offers that preferred closure of night with a reminder of our individual worthiness, of what we can and cannot control, how to encounter and embrace living with the feeling of the nuturing support of a mother, father, lover, friend, God, Buddha, etc.  At times clumsy in verbiage, at equal times eloquent in simplicity of statement, Lebell allows us to re-enter the journey of life enriched with wisdom from a man of simple secrets.  Guaranteed to help you turn out the light ......and to wake up refreshed in the morning.  Just keep this little tome at bedside for daily/nightly doses.	2001-06-03
1974345:US	52496677	RTD6MRO18R1YK	1555836402	235153623	Onyx: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Polished to a gleam!	ONYX is an amazingly fine novel from a writer who seems to grow  with each published work.  Though many may overlook this latest book as merely another Violet Quill opus chronicling gay life, this book is more than a solid story, more than a beautifully written novel, more than many other books in this genre.  This novel is an elegantly written exploration of the quest of the  individual in the 21st Century  - the immediacy and inexplicable choices that death makes, how individuals deal with genetic agar plates peppered by the vagaries of childhood environments/family history/social mores/chance encounters, why we become puppets of our stage play of id/ego/superego.  Picano has created thoroughly 3-dimensional characters who leap off the page as both good and bad acquaintances we've all encountered. There seems to be much autobiographical material here:  how else could the author know the complexities of his characters unless he'd lived in their skins of mixed in ther minds!<br />ONYX, the title, refers to a life long thwarted desire for an unobtainable object (an onyx ring) that becomes available only after Charon guides the main character across the river Styx.  Love, relationships, family, finding physical solace in a surrogate sexual fling, the vileness of AIDS and the accompanying tragedies encountered at the demise of a loved one whose family has never accepted the life of the victim, the true meaning of friendship, the equal vileness of cancer, of vehicular deaths, of family hate gone wild - all are components of this book.  There are surprising elements that inform us of practices unknown to most of us (were you aware that you could watch a cremation with all its gothic elements?), as well as pages of simply lyrical prose becoming poetry.  Picano knows how to create atmosphere, how to lead us through the complexities of nature's erratic moves, and most of all he knows how to keep our attention focused in reading a book that becomes addictive.<br />For those who have not had the pleasure of reading Picano, jump in and ready yourself for a ride you'll not forget.  From another artistic viewpoint this book design, cover, printing choices, page layout are the work of an extraordinary craftsman.  This reader finds ONYX to be his finest novel to date.....and waiting for what is next!ose who have not had the pleasure of reading Picano, jump in and ready yourself for a ride you'll not forget.  From another artistic viewpoint this book design, cover, printing choices, page layout are the work of an extraordinary craftsman.  This reader finds ONYX to be his finest novel to date.....and waiting for what is next!	2001-06-03
1982099:US	52496677	RXZEA19C6JEF2	0618135871	591651540	The Dying Animal	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Facing mortality	Phillip Roth has done it again - written a book that grabs an audience for multiple reasons, not the least of which is his frank sexual experiences dating back to Portnoy's Complaint, then manages to use his magnetic wrtier's tools to explore some of life's more major questions.  This short novel is a an interior conversation of a man growing old but still depending on the only badge of youth he has ever known - sexual performance.  Yes, his affairs with his students are less than appropriate.  Yes, he seems to make secondary any other encounter that might result in unveiling the presence of a scholarly mind.  But at the same time, Roth's main character grows closer to the inevitability of death as merely a part of the life cycle in his central alliance with a Cuban born beauty.  Not to destroy the twist that occurs in his obsession with corporal things, Roth finally makes this affair conclude with discovery that is sensitive and heartfelt.  &quot;The passage of time. We're in the swim, sinking in time, until we finally drown and go.&quot;  This book is filled with rich word pictures, philosophical flights of thought, and just plain fine writing.  Worth reading on many levels.	2001-05-28
1985170:US	52496677	R14FYR7T4IDGMM	1852426594	809998265	The Garden of Secrets	Books	5	20	20	N	N	The Garden of Earthly Delights	Borrowing the title from Hieronymous Bosch's painting as a way to present this book is cogent.  Juan Goytisolo is considered Spain's foremost writer and if this small book, THE GARDEN OF SECRETS, is any indication, his standing is well supported.<br />To postulate the fate of a well know poet - Eusebio - who was close to Lorca and other writers during the Franco period of Spain, a poet who &quot;disappeared&quot; about the same time as Lorca, the author has gathered 28 literary people in a garden in Marrakesh to discuss the life and possible fates of the honored poet.  We have, then, 28 versions of what happened to Eusebio, and the stories range from campy, to wild, to tragic, to nationalistic.  Goytisolo is a linguist who mixes French, Arabic, Spanish - all the voices in the intrigue laden Marrakech, Morocco - and translates in footnotes and interactive conversations so that we never lose track of the story lines.  This little book is somewhat like the story of the three blind men describing an elephant, or even the old Steve Allen show which featured characters from many periods  sharing reponses to questions colored by their own histories.  A delightful little diversion, this, and yet it is more.  It is poetry, Spanish history, an exploration of the gay writers so prominent in Spanish history, and a beautiful introduction to the wonders of Marrakech.  Credit must also be given to the translator - very sensitive work.  If you are as unfamiliar with Goyistolo as I, thne I highly recommend this little book as a rapt starting point in your discovery of ANOTHER great writer of our times.	2001-05-25
1988987:US	52496677	R3KKN2BC04EWKV	006019149X	125134901	The Foreign Student: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	East meets West meets South	THE FOREIGN STUDENT is a well crafted novel that deserves more attention than it received when it was initally released.  Perhaps with the increasing interest in written works by Asians there will be a belated audience - author Choi deserves it.  There were elements in reading Ha Jin's &quot;The Bridegroom&quot; stories that rang a responsive memory bell about Choi's book, encouraging a return to re-approach Choi's work.  On second reading it gains in quality.  Choi has quite successfully captured the sense of buried secrets carried by us all, but epitomized in her Chang, her Katherine, and the entire tenor of contemporary life in the South - both American and Korean.  Similarites to the youthful struggle with ideolgies, loss, muted desire, resolution or dissipation.....Choi captures it all with smooth, elegant yet walloping writing. This is a fine novel.....let's hope more are coming.	2001-05-22
1989950:US	52496677	R8MOD9JO4GTZE	1893956059	733318960	Assorted Fire Events: Stories	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Flashes of fiery brilliance	&quot;Wow I wish I could write like this guy!&quot;  This phrase must be on the lips of every fine writer practicing his/her craft today.  David Means is a miracle man - short stories that feel like novels, so well are they developed and loaded.  Yet none is more than 20 pages.  And the subjects he chooses to make fictions.....this man has one of the richest imaginations in the business. e is totally unafraid of any subject that others may avoid as being demeaning, or too tough, or so bizarre that noone would be interested.  A man's description of a life as a drifter all focused on the way he holds on to moving trains (The Grip), or a man who obsesses on Gestures observed and sought out.  The disparity between the rich and the poor, the gnarly conditions of dwelling  as a misfit.  He plumbs the bottom of the world barrel for characters we'd never think to think about, much less care about and finds reason for molding stories that defy our ability to put them down.  For this reader, David Means has created a series of String Quartets - the first subject melody may seem simple but the expositions and variations and permutations are like galaxies we've never known.  I think this man is a genius.  Haven't been this excited about a writer in a while.  Dare it, do it, revel in it.  But buy this book!	2001-05-22
1995355:US	52496677	R19X7ILXDF4YOL	0810969289	338809618	Sugimoto Portraits	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Yet another Art Form	This elegant and eloquent collection of &quot;portraits&quot; is a compendium of photographs of sculpted wax figures by Sugimoto.  As if the idea of electing to photograph these historically garbed figures weren't sufficient to merit attention, Sugimoto has enhanced these haunting images with sensitive lighting and positioning on the lens so that it appears he has gathered models, dresssed them in costume, and set up studio stages. This book is a must for lovers of photography, portraiture, and art in general.  A beautiful addition to art libraries!	2001-05-17
1995698:US	52496677	R3UQ53K38HXT6P	0374175403	96429552	In America	Books	2	6	8	N	N	The author gets in the way	Electing to read IN AMERICA beacuse of its awards I found this bloated novel to be a bit heavy on author intrusiveness.  As many have pointed out, the first chapter (actually a 27 page paragraph) makes the author analyze a room of Polish people and, without knowing the language or actually hearing conversations in toto, assign them roles as if casting the play that follows.  I think this is why we are left with incompletely fleshed out characters.  The premise of the book ( expatriation from European nobility to American homgenation) has been written before and better.  There are pages of beautiful descriptive writing to be sure - Sontag is well practiced at her craft - but in the end we are left not really caring about the stolid, laborious venture through which we've waded.  Though Sontag is hypnotized by studies of history's influences on the present, I think she writes better when she sticks to her own metier.	2001-05-17
1995803:US	52496677	R1RAIIPHQSVUBI	3822876135	761700343	Encyclopedia Anatomica: Museo La Specola Florence (Klotz)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The marriage of Science and Art	ENCYCLOPEDIA ANATOMICA is a detailed examination of the collection of wax images of the dissected human body which were created in the late 18th century and are housed in a unique museum - Museo La Specola in Florence, Italy.  Much like &quot;Dr Tulp's Anatomy Lesson&quot; this collection is not for the faint of heart.  Every organ, muscle, nerve, bone, nerve, and vessel of the body have been meticulously sculpted in wax.  In ways this is like a Madame Toussad's Wax Museum gone mad.  Yet the prosections are accompanied by some truly beautiful three dimensional tableaux of quasihistorical scenes, such as &quot;The Plague&quot;, &quot;Syphillis&quot;, &quot;The Burial&quot;, and others which are dramatic sculptures in themselves.  The commentary is brief but informative describing how the models for the body parts were dissected and created.  As stated above, this little tome is not for everyone, but for artists who want to study the interior of their models and for all of those who just want a better glimpse of how we are assembled, this book is a treasure.	2001-05-17
2002460:US	52496677	R9IVUY6RA5LAK	0385334583	677958673	Giovanni's Room	Books	5	95	100	N	N	A visit to the wine cellar for a vintage wine	Now and then it is healthy and rewarding AND enlightening to revisit some of the books in our libraries that are time-tested, durable pinnacles of literature.  Such is the case of opening the cover of James Baldwin's inimitable, cherished novel GIOVANNI'S ROOM.  Baldwin died in Paris in 1987 after gifting us with great novels and strong social commmentary.  It is only fitting to return to the Paris of this wonderfully rich novel when the need to reflect on how writers of stature had the courage to begin the genre of novels dealing with same sex relationships in a manner of pure literature.<br />GIOVANNI'S ROOM is a fluid, nonlinear exploration of alienation: the narrator is living in Paris (having escaped the US with the smilingly shallow American image descried by Parisians), heads toward a &quot;comfortably normal courtship/engagement&quot; with a very normal fellow American girl also living in Paris/Spain, and quite by accident encounters his repressed sexual self when he meets Giovanni, an expatriated Italian.  The subcultures Baldwin details are palpably present on every page - many characters seem like enemies until their roles in the journey of these two men unfold and clarify.  The title of the book is well chosen: Giovanni's room which he shares with David our narrator is claustrophobic, unkempt, dour, and threatening - an apt description of the mental environment this stumbling act of finding a new type of love creates.  Baldwin lets us know from the start that we are entering a doomed affair of the heart and it is this atmospheric, eloquently written memoir that adds to the sense of the inevitable isolation that makes this a great novel.<br />Enough cannot be said about the beauty of Baldwin's prose, the richness of his terse description of the city of Paris, his uncanny ability to paint characters that are wholly three-dimensional.  This book merits frequent re-visits. It is a rare vintage wine.	2001-05-11
2003170:US	52496677	R18J7AVW3KISTF	0374525641	65032227	The Spirit Catches You and You Fall down: A Hmong Child, Her American Doctors, and the Collision of Two Cultures	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Journalism vs Literature: a metaphor	Anne Fadiman's well-documented examination of a case of the essential differences in cultural beliefs - medicine of the Western mode, Shamanism of the Eastern mode - and the moment by moment revelation of what tragedy can come in the wake of those blocks between the two makes for a rich experience of soul searching.  The Hmongs are a tribe of wandering Asians, literally without a home for centuries, not unlike gypsies, but with a set of values that are based on the spirit world.  This report (and I use that term with respect because this book is written as a documentary not a novel) is centered on one family coincidentally transposed to Merced, California where their daughter struggles with epilepsy - a treatable chronic disease in the eyes of well-meaning Western medicine; a natural manifestation of a spirit entering and leaving the human form in the Eastern shamanistic approach.  Fadiman relates her case without condemning either mode for the grievous outcome of a brain-dead vegetable and in taking such a courageous stance she allows us to draw our own conclusions about the larger issues of life and death and what makes the universe understandable.<br />That the book is written without lyrical style or flexible liquid language for this reader keeps it out of the category of great literature.  A good reporter she is, a talented stylist she isn't.  But the overall effect of the story makes its own indelible case.  Recommended reading for medical students and nursing students.....as well as physicians out there who have lost touch with the inexplicable.	2001-05-11
2011261:US	52496677	RWUFFXLZ068UR	0312211732	371590866	Auden and Isherwood: The Berlin Years	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Seeds sown in the soil of turmoil	Books of  fiction and nonfiction, films, paintings, and museums abound in the ongoing ceaseless inspection of the atrocity and madness wrought by Hitler in Nazi Germany.  It is  an unfortunate fact that such turmoil gives rise to some of the best art in the years after the strife.  Norman Page, in his brilliantly researched and written AUDEN AND ISHERWOOD: THE BERLIN YEARS, has selected two men of great significance in literature and poetry as his points of entry into studying the Berlin that seduced the world before it jolted nearly to an end.  These portraits of Auden and Isherwood are really an examination of an historical time that altered the art world as inevitably as it altered our sense of the dangers of dictaorship.<br />Initally drawn to Berlin from the hallowed halls of English academe because of the rowdy free sex/hedonisitc atmosphere that had become Berlin, &quot;Berlin meant Boys&quot; and both our artists fled the England that sacrificed Oscar Wilde to find the open sexual freedom of the City of Sodom.  Author Page gives us such a rich, fascinating ride through the places and faces of pre-war Berlin that we are finally allowed to see why Modernism started, why cinema became important, how artists such as Grosz and Dix and composers such as Weill and Stravinsky, scientists (Hirschfeld) and writers (Brecht) found such acrid colors for their creativity.  Page is not confined to his title characters, though we learn more personal characteristics than any writer has dared to date: we are informed about Marlene Dietrich, Stephen Spender, Benjamin Britten, as well as a constellation of other characters encountered by them.  This volume reads like a novel (not without some kinship to Isherwood's famed GOODBYE TO BERLIN), but its importance as a publication is its uncommonly thorough view of why Hitler rose, why the Berlin Wall was destined to be (and to fall), and why the center of the artistic universe was for a few short years the glossy, naughty Berlin.<br />This book is a must for those who want to understand the beginnings of sexual freedom, those fascinated by the inception of WW II, and for those who happen to love the poetry of W.H. Auden and the stories of Christopher Isherwood.  Keep this book on your literary Reference Shelf.r />This book is a must for those who want to understand the beginnings of sexual freedom, those fascinated by the inception of WW II, and for those who happen to love the poetry of W.H. Auden and the stories of Christopher Isherwood.  Keep this book on your literary Reference Shelf.	2001-05-04
2013893:US	52496677	R1NFHORYDCTW6Z	1880559900	450368144	Uncontrollable Beauty: Toward a New Aesthetics (Aesthetics Today)	Books	5	25	28	N	N	A refreshing antidote to the dilemna of today	UNCONTROLLABLE BEAUTY: Toward a New Aesthetic is easily some of the most beautiful writing I've ever encountered.  Editor Beckley ( who also writes well) has selected poets, critics, painters, sculptors, philosophers to write about where we place Beauty on the scale of art importance in the past thirty years.  The very fact that this issue is being addressed bodes well for those of us who have been concerned about recent past trends in art of all forms.  Being ugly, controversial, in your face, violent, frivolous,  mocking, sadistic has been the criteria for what gets press and thus what the public is spoon-fed as what is &quot;in&quot;.  So many of us tire of these stale and selfish agendas which don't seem to have a life much past the opening of the show that features them.  But why did we get that way?  Is there a possibility that we have become so overinformed as to how to see that that most sacred aspect of creativity - beauty - has become a dinosaur?  Accordingly to lyrically beautiful essays  the answer is a decided &quot;No!&quot;.  Almost every way of describing beauty, feeling beauty, thinking beauty, seeking beauty is given in this eloquent book.  This is not always easy reading.....but there is beauty in making the effort, too.  Bravo and welcome back to the age of hope!	2001-05-01
2014594:US	52496677	R2LPIMNPYV2S94	1573221546	743847140	The Boy He Left Behind: A Man's Search for His Lost Father	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Another &quot;Hard to put it down&quot; little book	One of the more frequently occuring mind stretchers that occur as adults is the quest for coming to understand our parents.  It is part understanding ourselves, part seeking the reason why we are here and the meaning associated with that why.  Mark Matousek has written a searing account of his dysfunctional family, sparing noone in the wake, not even himself.  His writing is lucid, poetic, and yet very much in the mode of a mystery chef.  He knows how to keep us connected to his style by inserting the detective work of seeking his father who deserted him at an early age, while he succinctly sets about releasing all his autobigraphical data in short chapters that identify why each member of his biological family as well as his extended family is a case study of maladaptation.  For me the most enlightening aspect of this book was not about his failed search for his father, but about his discovering the gentle core of his seemingly abusive mother - on her deathbed.  This is a well written book, at times bordering on a pity-party, that shows how even the worst of inherited familial traits can be overcome.	2001-05-01
2019393:US	52496677	R1XOTQC7O0ZYZ7	0375420673	794119090	The Bridegroom: Stories	Books	5	1	3	N	N	How to understand Communist China without even trying	For some strange reason I have yet to read Ha Jin's WAITING: I have yet to taste his full course meal.  But I happened to open this treasure trove of short stories because of the author's success and because I am in the mood for exploring the short story form.<br />Reading Ha Jin is like reading children's books - they are deceptively simple in execution, it takes a while to catch the  rhythm, you must forego traditional endings.  And as with any new style it takes a while to warm to the work.  But after a few stories it becomes patently obvious why this young writer is gaining such recognition.  Though he lives in the US his stories are all about life in contemporary China and what a way to understand the precepts of the socialist way of life.  Major factors in the lives of his luminous characters are eligibility for living quarters, acceptance of a bizarre (or is it?) legal system, the importance of the tiny fragments of daily life that too often go unnoticed in wealthier capitalist societies.  The author makes it clear that even in this country with its ancient traditions and wisdom, simple concepts like homosexuality, private ownership, and sex before marriage sanction are MAJOR holes in the people's mindsets.<br />Though I frequently felt as though some stories were never finished, I gradually became so dazzled by the simplicity of technique the author uses to converse with us that the open ended technique used became comfortable.  There is extreme economy of words, healthy hints of humor never pushed to slapstick, individual moments of anguish and insecurity so delicately and simply described that each story is like a perusal of Chinese calligraphy.<br />Now on to his novels.......with a healthy memory of delicious appetizers!	2001-04-27
2022526:US	52496677	R2L5JK0MIPE3O	0714839590	754568231	500 Self-Portraits	Books	5	14	14	N	N	An Indispensible Art Library Addition	This small scale (though weighty) tome is a compact , wide-ranging survey of Western art in the most personal of terms - self portraits of artists both well known and obscure.  The brief essay by Julian Bell sets the overture tone for this enlightening stroll through art history from 2350 BC to 1997 AD. And though we know well the self portraits of Rembrandt, Durer, van Gogh, Andy Warhol, and Cindy Sherman, it is a pleasure to explore the vast frescoes of the Middle Ages and the commissioned paintings of the Renaissance and find subtle artist self portraits in the crowd scenes!  Another aspect of this important survey is the inclusion of women painters from history and recent past/present.  We all know the stature of Artemisia Gentileschi, but who has had the pleasure of viewing Judith Leyster, Sofonisba Anguissola, Catharina van Hemessen, Elisabeth- Louise Vigee-Lebrun in context with Goya, Velasquez, Carravagio, Whistler, Ingre, Freud, Bacon, Saville, etc.? The reproductions are rich, intimate, often enhanced by well-cropped details if the painter's image is one face in a huge canvas.  How better to take quietly study art development, technique, subject matter, social commentary than to slowly page though this engrossing collections of artists as they viewed themselves.  Buy this book, before it goes out of print!	2001-04-24
2022877:US	52496677	R27KY24VRCO360	0571199135	100715284	A House on the Ocean, a House on the Bay: A Memoir	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Picano's Finest Hour	Although I have read most all of Felice Picano's books, I find myself returning to A HOUSE ON THE OCEAN, A HOUSE ON THE BAY most frequently - sometimes just for recalling his atmospheric descriptions of places with and without people, sometimes just to re-visit Fire Island - a place I've never been but that has become for me a solid symbol of East Coast escape.  Picano's memoirs at times are overwhelming: how could one man have experienced life so richly and tranposed it to words for us, the voyeur readers?  Perhaps the places and people he so succinctly describes are bathed in poetic license, but that only makes the moments in between interpersonal encounters pregnant pauses.  Picano has managed to keep us entertained book after book and I eagerly await the release of ONYX.	2001-04-24
2024687:US	52496677	RQO3AVOZVFSY7	1555835228	134255145	The New York Years: Stories by Felice Picano	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Looking at old photographs in the company of strangers	Felice Picano has demonstrated almost yearly that he can spin tales about memorable characters and convince us that even the most bizarre of these are people he actually has encountered.  This collection of early short stories, while not up to his current polish as a writer, suggest writing traits that indeed have blossomed into a now mature man of letters.  There is much to be scanned in some of these tales, but there is equally much to savour.  His intimate gossip (or is it reportage?) is evident here and for those who keep up with Picano's prodigious output, there are suggestions of characters we are only now encountering in fully fleshed out detail.  These stories remind me of the feelings of insecurity we have when we pull off the shelf old photo albums of how we were trying to become ourselves in the trying times of youth.  Well, this time the Picano in the photos is a success story....and these stories might well be food for future biographers.	2001-04-22
2024692:US	52496677	R1YMUERYMDC907	1555835228	134255145	The New York Years: Stories by Felice Picano	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Looking at old photographs in the company of strangers	Felice Picano has demonstrated almost yearly that he can spin tales about memorable characters and convince us that even the most bizarre of these are people he actually has encountered.  This collection of early short stories, while not up to his current polish as a writer, suggest writing traits that indeed have blossomed into a now mature man of letters.  There is much to be scanned in some of these tales, but there is equally much to savour.  His intimate gossip (or is it reportage?) is evident here and for those who keep up with Picano's prodigious output, there are suggestions of characters we are only now encountering in fully fleshed out detail.  These stories remind me of the feelings of insecurity we have when we pull off the shelf old photo albums of how we were trying to become ourselves in the trying times of youth.  Well, this time the Picano in the photos is a success story....and these stories might well be food for future biographers.	2001-04-22
2024821:US	52496677	R3C3N4HLZAZVTL	1555835414	99972846	The Book of Lies: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Too much maligned novel	Forgive us for not respecting history, Mr Picano.  At least reading the other reviews of THE BOOK OF LIES would indicate that this tome of thinly disguised literary history would seem to indicate that Picano has failed to meet his own high standard.  Read this book again, as an insight into why the Violet Quill Club remains important in American genre writing, accept the sometimes repetitious meanderings of his folk and their adventures.  Once past the quibbling about the content, sit back and revel in the sheer beauty of Picano's prose.  He is a wordsmith who can talk about most any subject and make it better than many others can even suppose. Again, go back again.	2001-04-22
2025089:US	52496677	R2RRYWSPOTM6ND	0140245251	101154967	Like People in History: A Gay American Epic	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Why we need Felice Picano	Every culture seeks writers to chronicle history.  The last century exploded with changes in the perception of gay men (by outsiders as well as among gay men), climaxing in Stonewall. All of the events, movements, madness, sexual freedom and the catastrophy of AIDS need documentation AND novelization and who can do this better than Felice Picano, Andrew Holleran, Edmund White, Alan Hollingshurst, Jim Grimsley, to name only a few.  In PEOPLE LIKE HISTORY Picano takes all of this on, molds the history into characters who are unforgetable, and in doing so he makes us examine the past and look carefully at the future.  This is an important (and very enjoyable) novel.	2001-04-22
2025317:US	52496677	R277O2RFHBAZJ5	1555834817	842466838	Looking Glass Lives: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A well crafted diversion	LOOKING GLASS LIVES may take Picano readers by surprise in that it is not his usual foray into the world of Men with Men.  This is a marvelous short book that would satisfy even the most finicky of Romance/Mystery/Intrigue lovers.  Once Picano seduces you into knowing the inner thinking of these interesting people and their crossing of lines/lives, he has you to the end of the story.  Little is said of the artwork included (illustrations, if you will), but for me they recall the look of the old fashioned Romance novels of the 40's and add signifcantly to the success of this delicious little book.	2001-04-22
2025371:US	52496677	RUYL7GZVS740L	0571199135	100715284	A House on the Ocean, a House on the Bay: A Memoir	Books	5	4	4	N	N	So far this volume remains my favorite	Checking as to when the next novel by Felice Picano is due out, I realized that though I have read all his books I have never written about them in this forum.  Strange, but understandable when I look back over all the experiences of reading his work.  Picano writes in the manner of long nighttime walks with a close friend: he shares quips and bedazzling escapades and memories of lost friends like few others.  His stories are at once funny, tender, bitchy  (in a way that few can imitate), and just plain good stories.  In A HOUSE ON THE OCEAN, A HOUSE ON THE BAY he seems to have paused in the midst of memories very special to him...or at least his characters are so acutely drawn that they seem like pages from a diary.  If you've ever wondered what Fire Island was like at its peak, here it is.  Wonderful tales populated by people you'd like to know....or at least have observed!  Felice Picano keeps treating us to fine writing and I eagerly await ONYX!	2001-04-22
2026155:US	52496677	R1SXY2HKC1RZ3B	0375420533	492762162	Dream Stuff: Stories	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Poetry becomes prose	David Malouf is a brilliant writer, as those readers who have digested &quot;Remebering Babylon&quot;, &quot;Conversations at Curlew Creek&quot;, etc. can attest.  Too often Malouf is classified as an Australian writer, a limiting category for a man who spends  half his year in Australia ad the other half in Tuscany!  But as far as the content of his works is concerned he references the immense, isolated Australia, a country very much in this century and yet still a part of the Last Frontier image.  In his works he describes characters who somehow reflect that isolation, that pioneer spirit, that insular view of the world.  In DREAM STUFF we are treated to hugely successful small stories that deal with man's tiny speck of space in a universe full of fear and trials.  Malouf is able to completely inhabit the female narrator as in &quot;Closer&quot;, a tale of Pentecostal dealing (or rather not dealing) with things sensual.  &quot;Sally's Story&quot; is the agar plate for a larger novel - a woman who understands that the only way she will experience life outside her cramped environment is to serve as a &quot;hostess&quot; to GIs on leave from Vietnam.  In &quot;Lone Pine&quot; a couple escapes the secure tenderings of the workaday life in the city only to face nature in all its evil forces: their Idyll becomes the stage for murder by seemingly &quot;decent folk&quot;.  And on it goes.  Malouf's language is lush while straight forward, his plots are deceptively simple until he leaves us wondering how to finish the dialogue he has started. Another brilliant book from one of the best writers of our time. Highly recommended.	2001-04-21
2026307:US	52496677	R3JOBR9JDAPC42	0312242883	304974015	An Arrow's Flight: A Novel	Books	3	3	9	N	Y	Not up to his best	I must admit that reading all the reviews in this section made me return to &quot;An Arrow's Flight&quot; after a very uninspired first reading when it was released.  Surely, I thought, all these readers got something I missed.  I re-read the book, and while I agree that it is a fun way to look at mythology again, I think this book pushes the envelope of credibilty as far as creating real characters about whom we are able to care.  Merlis certainly knows his craft as &quot;American Studies&quot; attests.  I think the novel is a fun romp through very &quot;cute&quot; references, but on the whole it fails to linger as anything more.  But at least I trust his ability and eagerly await a new work to reinforce the promise he has established as a writer to watch	2001-04-21
2033029:US	52496677	RHW6UHB3GKQVY	1582430837	122266781	The Visitor	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Moody, dreamlike, brilliant prose	THE VISITOR is a miracle of terse writing.  The story -  a young woman attempting to re-enter her only remaining family in Dublin after her mother's death in Paris and finding that even this is not her home - is as engrossing as a long novel.  As a matter of fact, reading this short novella leaves the reader with such clear images of the four women characters that you feel you've been getting to know them for years.  For Brennan, the clash of Irish women, struck firmly in the molds they have been assigned/chosen, is fodder for what could be a dark nightmare.  But we are awake, her characters are real and unyielding, and we are given a glimpse of just how cruel and isolated estranged families can be.  Brennan creates her tale amidst the foggy and rainy depressed atmosphere of Dublin, and even her women who attempt some morsel of kindness get buried in the dank reality of this sad tale.  This is committed writing at its best, a joy to read despite the gothic horror of the tale.	2001-04-16
2036549:US	52496677	RYLNAUW6SJSSG	0786864613	910314178	In September, the Light Changes: The Stories of Andrew Holleran	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	A leisurely literary cruise	I often return to books for repeated readings when my first impressions are lasting.  Short story collections by such authors as Andrew Holleran renew the vigor of initial impact, the joys of lingering.  IN SEPTEMBER THE LIGHT CHANGES is a treasure of smaller stories that prove once again that Holleran is one of our best writers today.  Without depending on one locale, familiar and constant faces, recurring themes to keep us aligned, Holleran strings together tales like the best of Song Cycles by Schubert and Schumann (and Ned Rorem, more poignantly!) and allows us to absorb his luxuriant prose through very complete novellas about love, age, lust, and friends.  His hour is magical...and never more evident than in his final In Septmeber the Light Changes.  Smart, elegant, and yet very much from the heart.	2001-04-12
2037287:US	52496677	R1WEZ6QAXIMNIU	067975475X	693884514	Skinned Alive: Stories	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Rediscovering treasures	Edmund White's published output seems to grow yearly.  This multi-talented writer has added scholarly biographies, shared research, and new novels to his resume since publishing this book of short stories SKINNED ALIVE in 1995. And it is because of this expansion of his scope of writing that it is refreshing to make this mini-retrospective excursion into White's gifts.<br />Some will argue that his stories are too self centered, that his Francophilia gets in the way visually and textually.  The stories is this collection are not at all limited to his expatriate status - our own American In Paris.  The spectrum described by his characters is much more than that.  White is not afraid to mix his own history with that of his characters and in doing so he validates what might otherwise seem like far-fetched tales.  &quot;My Oracle&quot; is a simple story about an aging HIV exposed man taking a trip to Crete and how he rediscovers passion and being alive - a state all but discarded by his ruminating on the terminal drought of his experiences at home. Here is a buffed middle aged male longing for resurrection and he finds it in the simplest way.  His other stories ask us to glimpse mortality and vanity and make some sense of it. White has some difficulty ending a short story; we're left with a feeling of lack of resolution.  But maybe that is part of this superb writer's talent.  &quot;You, dear reader, finish the thought&quot;.  This is a collection that deserves revisiting on a regular basis, when life changes rise in your path.	2001-04-11
2042777:US	52496677	R7JPXAOZAGOLM	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Things never said, Things never heard	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE has been a little blinking light on the Best Seller List for so many months that I finally decided to surrender and see what all the enduring fuss was about.  Besides, I needed a quick read for an airplane flight.  Couldn't be that bad..........<br />But surprise!......in the nicest way.  This little recorded conversation between a sage, dying old teacher and a prominent sports writer distills almost everything I wish I had experienced with my father before he died.  We all have people that meant alot to us and died before we plumbed their souls.  Ah, but this little tome is not about dying; this book is about living and living completely and compassionately, embracing our emotions with gusto and sharing that zest with our fellow earth-dwellers.  There is so much joy that spills from Morrie's slowly failing mouth that humor is always present, even if caressed by tears.<br />This is not a Self Help Book.  This is a goldmine of lessons, of wisdom and of love.  No matter where you are in the life cycle, whether a child or an earnest teenager, a fast forward adult or a member of the golden years clique, this book should be required reading.  And since Morrie would not have us put too much emphasis on collecting &quot;things&quot;, give it to someone you love when you finish the stroll through this marvelous diary.	2001-04-06
2043705:US	52496677	R3EKWQFTTRE3M7	0399146431	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	An entertaining mystery, a more rewarding journey for origin	Much is being written pro and con Amy Tan's new novel THE BONESETTER'S DAUGHTER and the views are as divergent as the book itself.  As in her &quot;The Joy Luck Club&quot; Tan starts her story in contemporary San Francisco in the midst of East/West dichotomies, shaky mixed marriages, burdens of living in the present with the clash between caring for parents who are senile  and finding places for their custodial tending. The first section is a bit on the whining side...until Tan pulls her magic trick and makes us want to understand lineage and heritage as much as her narrator wants and needs to know.  Part Two is sheer Chinese history (with a good bit of true events sprinkled into the fiction to keep us alert) and that is where the novel shines.  Tan may not be purely Chinese in her style but what she writes works so well that she is able to drive her character revelation to surprising ends that rewards us up to the last page.  A great novel? No.  A well spun tale? Wholeheartedly Yes.	2001-04-05
2048998:US	52496677	R3EMOOG1CD9SFC	0385333382	235106446	The Odd Sea	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	A treasured gift from a friend	One of the beauties of having the privilege of writing reviews in this section of Amazon.com is finding friends in fellow booklovers, comparing notes online, and discovering new books that otherwise might have escaped in the mass of new releases. Thank you, Joe, for this gift - THE ODD SEA.  Frederick Reiken has authored a little miracle of a story that is unique, wondrously lucent despite the complexity of its components, and is one of the most tender novels about that ambiguous word &quot;love&quot; currently available.  Why this did not become an instant best seller can only be blamed on the advertising that was lacking at the time of release.  If word of mouth could ever be as powerful a force as we hope, the THE ODD SEA will surely rise again.<br />The title is a simplification (or is it?) of &quot;The Odyssey&quot; which in turn refers to travelling the sea of life and of the beyond with all the inherent obstacles, bonds, losses and fortunes.  The story is so well related in the Editorial Section that repetition seems unnecessary.  In the most elegantly simple prose this story of a disappearing brother and the aftermath on a family and a town is a path toward discovery - of the meaning of familial love, understanding and acceptance of individuality, and the profound way that what begins as a tragedy can be so positive a force for the audience who bears witness.  Rarely have even the most minor characters in a novel been so precisely drawn.  What could have been a maudlin tale is quite the opposite: this is a story of self discovery, of coming of age, of familial bonding, of whatever we choose to see as an afterlife.  Even while reading this book, entranced by the story, it is impossible not to relate the story to events in our lives that have had similar effects.  In short, THE ODD SEA is a gift to us all and I can only offer a whispered &quot;thank you&quot; to Mr. Reiken......and to Joe.  Read this Book!	2001-04-01
2050812:US	52496677	R9O8JOY389FX7	1582341354	930586325	The Flaneur: A Stroll Through the Paradoxes of Paris	Books	5	40	46	N	Y	Every traveller's dream.......	Edmund White has done it again.  He has created the first (in what seems to be a series) guided tour of a great city which focuses on the idiosyncrases, particular flavor, befuddling history and ultimate addicting charm of Paris.  This is as close as it gets to walking along side an established scholar and join him in the role of &quot;Flaneur&quot; - one who meanders without prejudice through the backways of a great city, just for the sake of observing and reflecting. There is more French (rather Parisian) history in this little tome than multivolume sets that mold on library shelves.  But we find out only the things that interest White (he makes it all so poignant). Sections of the city and the book are devoted to the peculiar Parisian take on monarchism vs royalsim vs republicanism vs socialism. White cleverly introduces anecdotes that at first suggest neighborhood gossip but later are referenced to available writing that documents these strange truths.  There is an entertaining history of African Americans in Paris, immigrants of all nationalities as they are today and were in history, a hilariously confused lineage of the royalty of France, and a frightening examination of why AIDS is so rampant in the city.  White strolls, cruises, pauses, reflects, delights in the smells and times of day when the light is best in certain areas, and provides a staggering list of the countless museums devoted to every idea imaginable while castigating city design choices and current architecture meant to make the city logical.<br />The format of this book is very small which means it would fit into the back pocket of any tourist visiting the City of Light who longs for much more insight than pocket guides from tour companies can even suggest.  White writes as well in books like this and his bios of Genet, Proust etc as he does in his inimitable novels.  This is a little treasure of a book!	2001-03-30
2057710:US	52496677	R7IIK4SBU7IED	1891305239	796469325	Between Dances	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Hearty applause, Erasmo Guerra!	BETWEEN DANCES is terrific novel.  The fact that it is a first novel is amazing.  Erasmo Guerra will be assuming a high position in the ranks of young American novelists if he continues to write this well.<br />Many authors have attempted to give us the &quot;Inside Story&quot; about the lives and psyches of male hustlers and go-go dancers.  Often those other efforts have just been broad outlines for titllating porn books.  Not BETWEEN DANCES.  Guerra has created characters who are so real that with a refreshing economy of words gives us an in depth background of who they have been and why they have come to the business of selling their bodies on the stage and in sleazy hotel rooms.  Marco, Chris and Jaime are not whining down and outers - they recognize that they perform not only for money but for the attention and love they crave.  For once the johns are not painted as deviates; we meet and get to know some regular people who also have their needs and choose to pay for them.<br />But there is much more to this atmospheric, often poetic work than this. Guerra gradually allows us to learn how young boys are driven to flee their homophobic backgrounds and take risks that may seem irresponsible to those on the outside in order to establish loving relationships socially unavailable to them as adolescent &quot;pre-gay&quot; males.<br />And as if this weren't sufficient for a first novel, Guerra reals a penchant for describing not only inner city life in New York, but paints beautifully poetic vistas of the four seasons.  Rarely has a writer lingered over the beauty of autumn or lifted us to the passing sights of jogging in the city the way Guerra has.  This is a very talented young man and I eagerly await watching his career develop.  And again, Bravo!	2001-03-24
2058810:US	52496677	R1KVJJ4S0AA0X9	0374239622	980961835	Quarantine: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	A more inventive writer would be rare to find	Having read BEING DEAD and feeling so swept away with author Jim Crace's gifts, I chose to read QUARANTINE from 1998, a book that is an earlier established prize winner.  Now having read that, I am convinced that Crace is one of the more imaginative writers practicing today!  Where do these bizarre threads of novel ideas originate?  Like BEING DEAD, QUARANTINE takes a far-fetched yet simple story and spreads a well cast tale before us as a story/parable/spiritual journey/dream.  On the surface QUARANTINE is a contemporary retelling or reevaluation of the 40 days in the wilderness that the character of Jesus spent prior to his accepting the concept that he was the promised son of god. With his spledidly atmospheric prose Crace takes this biblically alluded to tale and makes it visual, understadable, and even plausible.  But I am not convinced that this superficial level is what is important in this book: Crace has populated this blustering arid wilderness with a cast of people who accompany Jesus in one way or another to manifest deeper meanings to the parable.<br />At some point in each of our lives we each make our trek into the desert, stuggling to discover exactly who we are beyond the shell or facade we sport, ask the bleak sky why we exist, how we are woven into the fabric of existence. Hopefully this experience results in an epiphany and helps us shed the cocoon  that has shackled us and allows us to suddenly fly.  This release of the spirit into the greater vastness of the cosmos we call home requires introspection, separation, a Quarantine.  For this reader this is what Crace has described, and described eloquently.  This could well be another version of the Everyman play.  No, I don't think this is a book at odds with or in support of a biblical tale: I think this is a place for each of us to go and feel a hint of what we have done or will do to enhance our time on this planet.	2001-03-23
2064916:US	52496677	R2CKFIOGZDIZ4P	0571140750	172991482	Last Drawings of Christopher Isherwood	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A eulogy for lovers	Christopher Isherwood has been appreciated for years as one of America's finest writers.  Recent publications of biographies, essays of remembrances, and historically important data in the form of his diaries have established his place in history.  That he had a longterm relationship with artist Don Bachardy is a well known fact and in truth much of the notoriety currently is due to Bachardy's continued devotion.  Nowhere is there a more profound paeon to love than in this book of ink drawings.  As Christopher Isherwood lay ill and dying his lover stayed by his side, savoring all the moments remaining in their temporal relationship.  How best to while away his attentiveness than to draw Isherwood.  These profoundly touching renderings show Isherwood's decline and finally his death, even drawings of his corpse as Bachardy waited for the body to be removed from their Santa Monica home.  This is not a morbid book.  This is a book that radiates love and chronicles time passing and life ending.  It is one of the most tender elegies we have in art.	2001-03-18
2065262:US	52496677	R2P4KN8A6A0VQB	094264218X	133989690	Drawings of the Male Nude	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Zenith of the Genre	Don Bachardy's skills as a draughtsman are firmly established.  He has been drawing and painting from the model for several decades and now that his reputation as an artist is well established it is doubly rewarding to visit his early work. DRAWINGS OF THE MALE NUDE, published with the usual high degree of artistic integrity that has become the hallmark of TwelveTrees/Twin Palms Press, is a large format, generously spacious book that sets off Bachardy's drawings almost as well as looking at the originals.  The works are  all pencil, pen and ink, and ink wash renderings of friends and acquaintances of Bachardy.  With his extraordinary powers of observation he renders portions of the figure full, leaving other portions merely suggested.  The eyes have it: Bachardy admits that he always begins with the eyes.  But his appreciation of the nude male body is obvious in his choices of pose, and sensuality, his hints of eroticism.  Spend time leafing through this book and you will come to know these various men well!  Do what you can do to find a copy of this book!	2001-03-18
2065818:US	52496677	R3RD24MUK0869A	074320395X	785819131	The Body Artist: A Novel	Books	5	6	11	N	Y	An intoxicating expression of abrupt loss of love	This seems to be a year when we are facing our mortality with writers and Don DeLillo's &quot;The Body Artist&quot; is a surprise phenomenon.  Never thought this gifted writer could step away from his intricately substantiated chronicles of Americana and be so pensive. Many readers are complaining that this book is obtuse, that it goes nowhere, that it is about nothing.  And if you expect a rapid read of a short novella then those criticisms might be understood.  But open that carefully locked door that guards your psyche and I think you will find that the writing of this book is a little miracle.  DeLillo presents us with a character's mind-wanderings that explore the black hole that occurs when someone we love is suddenly dead, gone, not here.  It is not difficult to travel along the road of stream of consciouness, repeated phrases, specters, longed for reincarnations, ache for touch, for holding and being held, for hearing words that were so taken for granted as part of everyday conversation that they just keep surfacing; it just takes some time.  Making his main character a body artist suggests that it is the artist who can best express this void, drawing on the unused synapses of our brain to suggest explanations for the unexplainable.  Is there a real 'house guest&quot; after Rey's suicide, or is this preoccupation with a corporal form another mode of communication with Rey's absence?  Do we know love unless we lose it?  Life goes on, grows routine. An unexpected trauma (is it our fault?, do we assume guilt because we can't understand?) explodes our globe of existence, and abruptly life's routine dissolves, leaving Nothingness in its wake until we sort it out. I think this is a brilliant book; I've read it three times now in one day, and I'm still growing  from it and into it.  DeLillo has given us the opposite of his usual documented historically edged books  and has done it surpassingly well. WHAT A JOURNEY!!!!!!!!!!!!	2001-03-17
2071358:US	52496677	R1SYKUDALCZPUE	0060173963	870542673	The Angel on the Roof: The Stories of Russell Banks	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	A Memorable Collection	Russell Banks knows how to tell a story. He can vary his technique from intimate to grand scale and can interchange voices so you're never sure whether he is writing autobiography or pure fiction.  In ANGEL ON THE ROOF he gives us stories that span a long period of his output and while each of the stories stands on its own (at times even in a short 5 or 6 pages)there is enough linkage  or afterthoughts that somehow tie this collection together. Yes, the stories are intensely interesting individually and do continue to show Banks' feelings about the alienation and abuse of parent-child relationships, and people in general,  and yes they can be read individually as a bedside book for finding somnolence.  But to stop reading these collected stories as a book would rob the reader of the tangents that make for enhancing the experince as a novel. For sheer clarity of line, pungent descriptions of the quality of air/space/cold/skies etc  Banks is as good as contemporary writers get.  This is a richly rewarding book on so many levels that it clearly belongs in every library...with frequent easy access!	2001-03-12
2071671:US	52496677	R17WDW4HNHQDKN	1878424319	991834329	The Four Agreements: A Practical Guide to Personal Freedom (A Toltec Wisdom Book)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Indispensible little tome	For all the countless Self Help books that abound on the shelves of bookstores both brick and mortar and e-commerce I usually pass on reading them because there seems to be a sameness to the message, a glib tone of enlightenment, that seems like some moments of introspection, if honestly applied, could save the cost of yet another &quot;pathway&quot; map out of despair.  This is most assuredly not the case for don Miguel Ruiz' THE FOUR AGREEMENTS.  With a gifted economy of words, a grateful sparing of self examples, and a firm grounding in historical data that these ideas come from the ancients, Ruiz moves us comfortably toward a realm of changing our lives so that we take charge of our pursuit of happiness.  This is so solidly written, so apparently simple, that only the coldest heart would toss this sacred treasure aside.  Be Impeccable With Your Word, Don't Take Anything Personally, Don't Make Assumptions, and Always Do Your Best: there they are - guideposts for not only survival in our chaotic time but waking up to joy every day and taking that joy to the pillow at night.  This is not a Power Manual: this is an empowerment book.  Read it and begin to live!	2001-03-12
2079270:US	52496677	RDUZFM6D0B0W7	0944092543	438421364	Nightswimming	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Something to grow into	Passing by the art section in good bookstores I kept noting people paging through a dark black book about night and swimming or something like that.  It stayed in my mind's eye.  After reading &quot;Nighswimmer&quot; by Joseph Olshan and still a bit under its spell I finally picked up this art photography book.  Now I've spent time inside the place the book creates and find it wholly mesmerizing.  Yes, the images are tough to discern.....like looking for faces in the fog much the way lust feels after midnight.  But it is the spontaneity of the moments and the sensitivity of the layout of the book that create a shoreline of approaching and receding waves:  this is the way longing feels and looks.  Though spare, the commentary is as terse as nervous whispers and adds greatly to the overall effect of this journey.  Can't see much here?  Then as in all good art, infuse your imagination and go where it feels either best or most dangerous.  I like this book.	2001-03-06
2080757:US	52496677	R32S6IRI188QLI	1587360217	339624418	The Lord of Whispers: A Syncobobian Tale	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Listen my children and you shall hear............	Perusing the titles of books in the Best Seller columns and those gathering attention from the critics can be a bit depressing.....tales of dysfunctional families, murders, espionage, courtroom blundering, confessions of tainted pasts, distortions of history to mold a story.  Along comes Michael Barnard and seduces us with his new novel &quot;The Lord of Whispers&quot;, gently unfolding a story that reads like a fairytale but packs considerable wallop.  His tale of mythical countries populated by peoples cramped or enhanced by language is refreshingly new.  Yes, &quot;Gulliver's Travels&quot; comes to mind , and comparisons with the Lord of the Rings cycle and the Ring of the Niebelungen made into operas by Wagner are appropriate. But how often are writers today patient enough to define a new time dimension/place description/character development that has no ready reference point for readers to align in the first chapter? There are some problems with writing books of this type:  manufactured languages requiring parenthetical translations cause the flow of reading to fumble at times, the jarring use of contemporary colloquialisms in the mouths of his otherwordly characters can become bothersome, and the endless descriptions of the nature of the countryside and crater places tend to make page flipping happen.  But stay with this tale and the wit and wisdom surface most assuredly.  There are strong parables here, well worth the journey.  The story: a sibling accident instigates a crusade into a foreign yet neighboring land where philosophies and languages collide, where a dying monarch of a disintegrating perfect place relinquishes his power to a young girl who in turn embraces the wisdom of the spirit of life that transcends mundane idiosycrasies.....reuniting her family unit.<br />AND, Barnard writes beautifully. &quot;One either accepted life's struggle and cruelty on its own terms as a gift and a passion, or rejected it as a curse, a cosmic flaw, a tragic mistake.  Yet if life was reduced to a fleeting, mortal struggle, a meaningless chain of meaningless events, why did life also generate such a wealth of beauty, such fantastic and intricate harmomy?&quot; etc.  These words can only be appreciated when they come as the conclusions of children who would be kings, of parents how struggle through any chasm to regain their spirit of family.  Could this book be read to children?  Yes, by patient tender adults willing to grow into the tale with the child's vantage and the nursed calluses of maturity.  I think there will be more from Mr. Barnard.....is another Potter series in the making?  Highly recommended!e.  Yet if life was reduced to a fleeting, mortal struggle, a meaningless chain of meaningless events, why did life also generate such a wealth of beauty, such fantastic and intricate harmomy?&quot; etc.  These words can only be appreciated when they come as the conclusions of children who would be kings, of parents how struggle through any chasm to regain their spirit of family.  Could this book be read to children?  Yes, by patient tender adults willing to grow into the tale with the child's vantage and the nursed calluses of maturity.  I think there will be more from Mr. Barnard.....is another Potter series in the making?  Highly recommended!	2001-03-05
2082238:US	52496677	R3K3NTVNY9THVL	1575665956	254951238	The World Of Normal Boys: A Novel	Books	5	33	37	N	Y	A Major, Very Important Book!	About once every decade or so along comes an author with a voice so clear and exciting that a first novel becomes a revelation.  K.M. Soehnlein has given us another universally effective tale of the coming of age of a boy in the labyrinth of puberty.  Joyce, Salinger, Wolfe did it and created prototypes that became icons for countless young men fortunate enough to be encouraged to read abou the tangles life presents when the hormone balance shifts toward adulthood.  &quot;The World of Normal Boys&quot; is a sheer wonder of writing skill, passion, and commitment.  I wonder at the lack of notoriety due a book of this stature - but then perhaps this book has fallen victim of being too &quot;specialized&quot; in its reader audience.  Yes, ONE of the struggles that the main character, Robin, encounters is his fear and coming to grips with nascent homosexuality.  But Soehnlein handles this so adroitly that it should ring bells in everyone's psyche; sexual ambivalence is a normal step toward sexual identity, gene theory or no. Accompanying this odyssey of a highschool freshman is an incident which changes everything in his milieu of maturing.  And with this incident we are allowed to observe the disintegration of a &quot;normal&quot; family unit, the inception of alcoholism, parental abuse of children as they seek escape from their own frustration about life choices, the obsessive need to feel loved/needed/to exist, the imbalance between juvenile naivete and adult &quot;sophistication.&quot;  Yet the author sweeps us along with a storytelling technique which is incredibly fine.  If you wonder early in the book why he is taking such detail to describe a playground and especially an almost architecturally rendered view of a play slide, then you only realize in a few pages further why that little bit of apparent &quot;diversion&quot; was so important and why there is a replay of the same theme at book's end when our now beloved main character unveils the place the universe has fashioned for him in this life.  If there were more than 5 stars to rate this book I would go to the maximum number.  This is a brilliant book by an enormously gifted author who has not only given us a new Stephen Daedalus, Holden Caulfield, Eugene Gant...he has documented a decade (the 1970's) better than almost anyone writing today.  Yes this book deals with gay issues (very well) and that can only be another reason for everyone to read it.  Highly recommended!!!!!!!!!!s fashioned for him in this life.  If there were more than 5 stars to rate this book I would go to the maximum number.  This is a brilliant book by an enormously gifted author who has not only given us a new Stephen Daedalus, Holden Caulfield, Eugene Gant...he has documented a decade (the 1970's) better than almost anyone writing today.  Yes this book deals with gay issues (very well) and that can only be another reason for everyone to read it.  Highly recommended!!!!!!!!!!	2001-03-03
2084262:US	52496677	R3UD4LP5R77MPF	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	5	9	13	N	N	An Incredible Feat  by a wondrous writer	Some books, like valued friends, are a constant source of support. E. Annie Proulx's &quot;The Shipping News&quot; is such a book.  A first reading introduces a magician of language, a unique style of communication, and an almost unbelievable mastery of descriptive information about a place little known to most readers (Newfoundland).  Opening this book before it won almost all the prizes available to writers was a fresh introduction not unlike reading Melville or Conrad the first time.  Proulx plunges us so convincingly into new territory that turning the pages is like walking in a foreign land, meeting compelling characters, discovering the raw life of the pioneer psyche.  Writing in terse sentence fragments, spinning elegies when a character encounters the sea, the cold, the delicate hidden secrets of the past, describing the smells and tastes  (like fried bologna and screech) and the manners of the bizarre townfolk of this strange place.......Proulx has few equals in the field today. The evidence of extensive research is everywhere and yet never flagrantly intrusive.  Just comfortable.<br />Re-reading, and YES I do encourage visiting this old friend again, only serves to enhance the impact of the first time 'round. How she is able to populate this story with the variety of people she does, making us want to penetrate the interstices of their lives beyond the hints given us, is a question that doesn't beg an answer:  it is enough to just marvel.<br />Curl up, cup of hot tea at hand, and travel to the special place  Proulx has created.  A magnificent book with incredible staying power.	2001-03-02
2088195:US	52496677	R21ZS2OJYY8F0H	1555835546	700038984	Ratz Are Nice (PSP): A Novel	Books	2	2	3	N	Y	Another voice searching for tongue space	Short and sour.  &quot;Ratz Are Nice: (Psp)&quot; is a small book that pushes big buttons. Author Braithwaite obviously knows what he is about and tells a story from the intra-abdominal site.  Characters are believeable and he makes us care about them.  But the problem with wading through the hieroglyphics and lingo, page layout and punctuation oddities in the end detracts from the idea of the novel.  It just becomes kitsch. If you feel you must read this book, I suggest you start with the Author's Notes: this reads with great ease and wit and venom.  For the rest, the work involved in getting there doesn't seem to justify the payoff.....at least to this reader.	2001-02-26
2091256:US	52496677	R6WJBO8XRKD6H	1575665956	254951238	The World Of Normal Boys: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	A Major, Very Important Book!	About once every decade or so along comes an author with a voice so clear and exciting that a first novel becomes a revelation.  K.M. Soehlein has given us another universally effective tale of the coming of age of a boy in the labyrinth of puberty.  Joyce, Salinger, Wolfe did it and created prototypes that became icons for countless young men fortunate enough to be encouraged to read about the tangles life presents when the hormone balance shifts toward adulthood. &quot;The World of Normal Boys&quot; is a sheer wonder of writing skill, passion, and commitment.  I wonder at the lack of notoriety due a book of this stature - but then perhaps this book has fallen victim of being too &quot;specialized&quot; in its reader audience.  Yes, ONE of the stuggles that the main character, Robin, encounters is his fear and coming to grips with  nascent homosexuality.  But Soehnlein handles this so adroitly that it should ring bells in everyone's psyche; sexual ambivalence is a normal step toward sexual identity, gene theory or no.  Accompanying this odyssey of a highschool freshman is an incident which changes everything in his milieu of maturing. And with this incident we are allowed to observed the disintegration of a &quot;normal&quot; family unit, the inception of alcoholism, parental abuse of children as they seek escape from their own frustration about life choices, the obsessive need to feel loved/needed/to exist, the imbalance between juvenile naivete and adult &quot;sophistication&quot;.  Yet the author sweeps us along with a storytelling technique which is incredibly fine.  If you wonder early on in the book why he is taking such detail to describe a playground and especially an almost architecturally detailed view of a play slide, then you only realize in a few pages further why that little bit of &quot;distraction&quot; was so important and why there is a replay of the same theme at book's end when our now beloved main character unveils the palce the universe has fashioned for him in this life. If there were more than 5 stars to rate this book I would go to the maximum number. This is a brilliant book by an enormously gifted author who has not only given us a new Stephen Daedalus, Holden Caulfield, Gant.....he has documented a decade (1970s) better than almost anyone writing today.  Yes, this book deals with gay issues (very well) and that can only be another reason for everyone to read it.  Highly recommended!!!!!!!!	2001-02-24
2102985:US	52496677	R3TH8NH38SV80B	0942642449	433821024	Harms Way: Lust and Madness, Murder and Mayhem	Books	5	9	15	N	N	Exploring the Dark	Joel Peter Witkin is long established as a master of the visually bizarre, creating studio photographs that push the envelope of believability to the precipice and then encourage the viewer to accompany the descent. They are manufactured by the artist.  But here Witkin has gathered bits of real life that far exceed the contrivances of his own photography.  Distorted and leaning toward nauseating as some of these real life photographs from history may be, they are all the more strange because they are Documentation instead of Creation.  And who better to compile this odyssey into the dark realm but the man who spends his creative energies devising fabricated scenarios that parallel these photographs?  A fascinating survey of just how untameable is this planet we call home........	2001-02-14
2103507:US	52496677	R2NFZJMU03Q9F5	0374110131	697393202	Being Dead: A Novel	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	A gleamingly honest  and original vantage of life and death	&quot;Being Dead&quot; somehow illuminates Being Alive.  Jim Crace  has given us a thoroughly engrossing, touching, spirit-expanding eulogy on the presence of death as a part of life. Early in this extraordinary little book he states &quot;It's only those who glimpse the awful, endless corridor of death, too gross to contemplate, that need to lose themselves in love or art.&quot; He then proceeds to light that corridor for our examination, cell by decomposing cell, of the thing we try the hardest to avoid: death.  This is not a macabre book, a sensationalist view of things morbid: with great grace and love the author invites us to explore the transcience of our corporal time on earth and in doing so he encourages the celebration of all things that life could be. If his characters appear as ordinary beings (if ordinary means two people who have explored the highs and lows of love, of procreation, of guilt, of grief, of dissappointment, of intimacy with the earth as only a zoologist can understand), then he has managed to touch us all, allowing us to identify with the inevitable confrontation with dying. This is a brilliantly conceived and written book- one of the most uniquely satisfying I have read.  This is a map of our lives, our mortality, our spiritual quest untended/aborted.  Food for thought and for sharing and for treasuring.	2001-02-14
2103925:US	52496677	R2F04WXDZ7IRR0	1881616207	615089009	Witkin	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Definitive Volume	Be forewarned: Witkin's photographic art is wholly unique and strange and bizarre and macabre.....and wondrous.  How often do we really have the courage to face our nightmare demons, real or imagined?  Here is an artist who has devoted his life to addressing the dark side of our minds.  Yes, these are photographs of &quot;freaks&quot; manipulated to states beyond which even they can go.  Some people are put off by these images, finding them cruel and disgusting.  But why do these same people pack the theatres and movie houses that continue to grind out rehashed Dracula, Frankenstein, Phantoms of the Opera, and other creatures from the black lagoon of invention? Perhaps the fact that these are photographs and not drawings or paintings makes them fall into the realm of possible rather than make-believe.  But here they are, like a sideshow, with incredible presence, lighting, theatrics, and pain.  For the unafraid, Witkin's photographs are beautiful.  And so is this volume!	2001-02-14
2104042:US	52496677	R2AUADTW6CYR9J	1584180218	558798483	Disciple & Master	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Stunning achievement	A book that will satisfy both the avid fans of Joel Peter Witkin's art and newcomers to this modern genius' output. We earn more about influence and process than we ever thought we would know.  This beautifully presented volume is both an homage to Witkin's mentors and a celebration of his gifts as Master of the Bizarre.  A fine addition to the volumes on Witkin and to the library of Fine Art Photography in general.	2001-02-14
2108823:US	52496677	RGH6EATNGGCT0	1570033692	627031031	O Lost: A Story of the Buried Life	Books	5	31	36	N	N	A book to basque in	Like so many others, &quot;Look Homeward Angel&quot; provided one of those pivotal experiences in college.  I remember reading it twice - consecutively! - and then hastening on to Wolfe's other books.  Well now here is the full work and for me it provided a long, leisurely read that not only had the nostalgia inherent in the story and the leftovers from my life during my first reading, it had more of the things that make Wolfe such an important literary figure in the 20th Century.  O LOST ( a phrase oft repeated in this long and rambling coming of age story) is full of the unfinished sentences, fragments, stream of consciousness admixing of past/present/future that Wolfe gradually polished during his brief career.  This is a work of poetry that nestles in with Whitman, Dickinson, Agee, Faulkner in its ability to create characters who step off the page and take up permanent residence in your psyche.<br />Yes, some of the previously edited portions give credence to the need for the Editor's role in shaping a novel.  But being able to slowly drift along with Wolfe's imagery and imagination, his acute visualization of life and death, fear and orgasm, rage and gullability...this original piece gives so much back to the reader that finishing the book is painful.<br />In a time when most novels hover around the 300 page mark it is a complete joy to meander through a tome of nearly 800 pages that takes concentration, patience, and a lot of time to consume. But the journey is overwhelmingly justified.  Do your mind - and your heart - a favor: read &quot;O Lost&quot; next.	2001-02-09
2108835:US	52496677	R29YHV0T01XCJT	0375406328	449261090	Lying Awake	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	A solid approach to Form and Function	In &quot;Lying Awake&quot; Mark Salzman gives us a multifaceted jewel of a book.  For the scholar he has found the perfect melding of form matching function:  the spartan tenor of a cloistered monastery of Carmelite nuns is related in terse prose and poetry, no extraneous verbage here.  For the cleric he has discovered how to put into words the feeling of faith, the commitment of nuns as Brides of Christ.  For the reader who looks for any type of mental/spiritual growth from the process of reading books he has gently opened the floodgates of how to seek serenity.  And for the artist in all of us he narrates a tale that dares to explore the origins of genius.  In this tender, sensitive story about Sister John of the Cross finding the courage (read faith) to risk losing her divine inspiration, her rapture, her insight to the meaning of existence by consenting to the surgical removal of a tumor that science in white lab-coated doctor form offers as a mundane explanation for her gifts we are lead to begin to understand the focus, the devotion, the concept of faith of religious orders.  Yet the author has the graciousness to never go beyond the reality of a contemporary monastery set in Los Angeles, never makes sacharine the interrelationships of his nuns, and even when venturing beyond the cells and bars of the monastery he keeps the influence of the world outside wholly within the perception of his Sister John. This is a quiet, contemplative book that makes no clangorous demands, or touts Catholicism, or offers yet another &quot;how to&quot; answer for altering our tedious lives.  It is just a quiet book whose impact is subtle.....but lasting.	2001-02-09
2111082:US	52496677	RINAV7XVCQ6DY	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good .....until the last flush	Whether the main character of this genre of novels is called Dracula, Nosferatu, Charlie Manson or Hannibal Lecter the driver is similar:  we seem to have a long history of lust for incredible gore and horror.  Perhaps Thomas Harris understands this universal need as he has introduced an elegant yet smarmy character who is charismatic enough to survive three books.  With the highly publicized film version of Hannibal about to be released the timing seems right to find out just how far the author could push our senses. &quot;The Silence of the Lambs&quot; was a grotesque film noir, but it had its redeeming charms - mainly in the guise of the highly intelligent and elegant persona of the mad main character.  &quot;Hannibal&quot; picks up where &quot;Silence&quot; left off and for a long while this novel is a joy to read because of the beauty of Harris' description of Florence, Italy, the minute attention to detail that enhances the suspense, the bizarre turns of an unending chase, etc.  But this novel seem to be saying &quot;no more sequels&quot; in the rather gauche ending.  This is not the Clarice we have been following, nor can even the strangest mind condone the &quot;feast of living brains&quot; that brings this book to a tawdry conclusion.  Now to see how Hollywood deals with this.......  As for a book, it is only for the Hannibal-addicted.	2001-02-08
2114668:US	52496677	RN3MUHBSAU9Q2	0140157182	668505584	The Assault: A Novel (Pentagonia)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	If &quot;Before Night Falls&quot; caught you.....	Hopefully the successful audience response to the film  of Arenas' &quot;Before Night Falls&quot; will encourage readers to explore the unique and vastly enriching glimpses of Castro's (or any dictator's for that matter) Cuba.  The author's style is indelibly his own, reporting and commenting on the conditions of political supression, whether he elects to satirize in the first person/s as in &quot;Color of Summer&quot; with its over the edge surreal view of contemporary Cuba, or placing the narrator from within as in &quot;The Assault&quot;.  Truth, as he viewed it, is so ludicrous that it becomes black comedy, not unlike Goya's &quot;Goyescas&quot;.  But for all the unsettling details of this tale of destruction of all that matters in our past, this book, once read burns a spot in our minds that makes it almost necessary to revisit it lest we forget the joy of freedom.  Tough reading, but highly recommended.	2001-02-05
2115066:US	52496677	R113TSRDLDVY1C	0393050424	759689844	The Death of Vishnu: A Novel	Books	5	29	31	N	Y	A Quiet Flash of Brilliance!	Difficult to believe - that this is a first novel!  Manil Suri has chosen a theme both timeless and extraordinarily unique as he sculpts the life of a dying man (the proces is not morbid, just a fine substrate for weaving a tale) through the overheard conversations of the folk living in the boarding house on whose steps he lies.  In many ways this short novel is like extending that flash of light when all of our life appears before us just at the moment of death - extending it long enough to relish the myriad aspects of living.  This is a last gasp...but filled with so much treasure that you'll find yourself hoping it never ends.  Suri's writing style is unfettered, concise, colorful, and always maintains a simplicity of style that begs for revisiting.  An auspicious debut.  Highly recommended.	2001-02-04
2115595:US	52496677	R2LMBGL4HP0Z2T	0262631873	625389675	Hamlet on the Holodeck: The Future of Narrative in Cyberspace	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Take a spin into the midst of the future	Some may find this terse, warmly witty, and tidy treatise about &quot;whither literature in the world of CyberSpace&quot; as just too esoteric to read.  Stop.  This is not a book grieving over the lost art of words and writing that nurtures the lives of all readers.  This wise book is a guide to the possibilites that elude pessimists wary of the ultimate effects of the computer on this century.  Relax, discover the possibilites about which you've never dreamed, and let Murray tell you some stories in the mode of the future.  For writers, for teachers....but also for the committed readers. Enjoy!	2001-02-04
2143204:US	52496677	R2N9J2FBTFBUDJ	0500019940	18252130	Looking Back at Francis Bacon	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Through the glass, brightly	Few artists of the 20th century have engendered as much controversy while having such an enormous impact on coming to grips with personal demons on canvas as Francis Bacon.  Once again the erudite scholar David Sylvester has written about his friend in a way that makes all other collections of images and gossips about Bacon pale in comparison.  This book is a true &quot;retrospective&quot;, not only because if can look at the entire output of this enormously gifted painter, but it puts Bacon in a perspective of comparison and study of influences that span all of art history. Sylvester manages all this with his usual eloquence of writing style.  This book is an academic treatise, but is is also a biography that looks carefully and thoughtfully at the mad mind and paintings of Francis Bacon.  Highly recommended for Bacon devotees as well as those who still seek to understand the past century's art journey.	2001-01-12
2144561:US	52496677	R1PSQ5V9CWCZDZ	0688168396	177294397	The Boy with the Thorn in His Side: A Memoir	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	A backseat rider's view of Edmund White	&quot;Just who is Keith Fleming and why is he tryng to slay me&quot; might be a good subtitle for this short memoir.  Frankly I bought the book because of my great admiration for Edmund White (the Uncle Ed of Keith's minor autobiography) and in the end all reasons for liking the book reflect back to that initial response.  Yes, this is the life of an unfortunate, acneiform teenage product of yet another dysfunctional family unit whose saving grace is his finding solace with his brilliant writer uncle in New York.  Keith Fleming writes well, has some pages when his prose actually begins to sing, but aside from his &quot;growing up&quot; experience with Edmund White,  his story - full of despair and cruel circumstances -hardly registers as a precis for a book. But all criticism aside, Fleming does give us more insights into the person of Edmund White and it is refreshing to read passages that demonstrate White's warmth and humanity and caring that often his books fail to suggest.  Far from being just a flamboyant social surface person, White, as drawn by his nephew, has more than a modicum of compassion for family, for adolescence, for the sticks and stones that make us falter as we mature.  So, I think this young writer bears watching.  Maybe next time his misery will not be too much with us.......	2001-01-11
2150505:US	52496677	RVXGPOFMXFAIM	0375403426	761372032	Phoenix: A Brother's Life	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Phoenix rising from the flames	Deceptively simple in manner and topic, this little tome  - a memoir about the vagaries of familial love and  reflections on the disappointments of the expectations of youth - holds more food for thought than many a treatise on contemporary philosophy. How much of this book is reportage and how much is embellished fiction is realy not an issue:  the detailed description of a nouveau California transplant family in all its dysfuntional state recalls tales of immigrants, bits of Steinbeck, and chards of Camus, Wolfe, and other writers of the human condition.  Yes, this is a painful tale of the loss of a brother to the burn injuries from an industrial accident.  Yes, the coming to grips with death from the various vantages of family members, coworkers, doctors, etc is a line of penetrating thought.  But this book is about so much more than these tales.  &quot;Phoenix: A Brother's Life&quot; forces us to accept that we are too often a race of beings that fails to communicate, has lost the spirit of Family, has too little time for the work Love requires.  And if ever we needed a wakeup call for embracing these losses it is surely now.  Though the title defines the place where all of this finds its Golgotha - Phoenix, Arizona is the location of the hospital housing the Burn Unit that becomes the final destination for the slowly but inevitably dying brother - I think that by the end of this book the author subtly shares that this gruesome experience is akin to the mythological bird that rises from the flames to new life and discovery.  Bravo, J.D. Dolan.  And thank you from those readers wise enough to embrace this book.	2001-01-06
2156291:US	52496677	R3MEVS7UFMXUW1	0140157654	273591516	Before Night Falls: A Memoir	Books	5	50	51	N	N	Going back	It is most reassuring to see that a film based on Arenas' extraordinary book &quot;Before Night Falls&quot; is gaining the kudos and exposure this underrated (in this country at least)author deserves.  I first read this book when it was translated and released in 1993 and seeing the film only made me hasten to return to the original book.  Time has aged the eloquence of this memoir but has not marred the impact of the brilliance of the writing.  Arenas wrote with a degree of truth and keen observation that makes his moments of antics with his characters like comic relief in a Shakespearean play.  For obvious reasons the film (brilliantly directed by Julian Schnabel and acted by Javier Bardem as Arenas) could not dwell on some of the elements that make the book so unique:  the extended description of life in Cuban prisons is only touched on. But the single most significant rediscovery in reading &quot;Before Night Falls&quot; again is Arenas' poetry.  He had a gift of distilling Magical Realism, transforming even the radical ugliness of Castro's Cuba into the topical paradise so beloved by Cubans everywhere.  See the film, but let that experience introduce you to the rich literary output of one of the most exciting writers of the last century.	2001-01-02
2158070:US	52496677	RT0EDU0R05W3I	1555834949	383422796	Fool's Errand: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	It is the simple stories that tell so much	&quot;Fool's Errand&quot; is a miniseries for TV or a movie waiting to happpen.  This fast paced, always interesting story is told in such a facile manner that you feel you're overhearing conversations of friends.  The characters  are beautifully delineated, loveable, and remind us of acquaintances so clearly that we become part of this Search For Mr Right.  This book is a wonderful read, a thoroughly engaging story with a page-turner style that makes you wish it would never end.  And maybe it won't.. We have all been down this lane before: it just takes someone of the gifts of Louis Bayard to make us want to wake up and love what we have, who we are and have been.  A terrificly simple, engrossing novel. Let's hope there is a sequel planned.........	2001-01-01
2166751:US	52496677	R34JFRA9RO6ZS7	1576870863	33535775	As I See It	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	Refreshing stance	Every aspect of this new volume of Greg Gorman's art is of the highest quality....from the physical cover/paper quality/design/ typeface et cetera.  Gorman's choice of models - men who are not buff beefcake for the most part - is refreshing and allows us to more closely appreciate his photographic gifts of choice of pose, lighting, and introspection.  These models dwell in that continuum of emerging masculinity unhampered by too much experience or over-exposure to the various camera (and human) eyes. With the exception of Nicholas Gonzalez and Alexis Arquette (again, refreshing honest respect for male nudity in a world most celebrities avoid), the models are like people you pass as you walk down the street.  The beauty of the resulting photo sessions seems a balanced collaboration between Gorman and his sitters.  A beautiful book.	2000-12-23
2170216:US	52496677	R23MVXA7CA4S65	0312252323	427350264	Troublemaker	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A terrific story in a challenging writing style	Brian Pera bears watching.  Not many &quot;first novelists&quot; will tackle a writing style that asks alot of his readers; usually first books aim at telling a good story and rely on proven techiques to coddle the unwary reader.  Not Pera. &quot;Troublemaker&quot; is a true grit tale about a tough subject told by a less than educated backwoods mentally challenged boy.  It is told in the first person and getting used to Earl's language takes practice.  Accepting his nonlinear process also requires much from the reader, but it is precisely the way this main character would talk and think and to write it otherwise would not be as engrossingly effective.  I praise authors who make us work...stretching our brains opens new synapses....and Pera goes at it with a vengeance.<br />The story is well described by the editorial above.  Suffice it to say that meticulously exploring how disadvantaged youths are subject to abuse and deeply needy for meaningful relationships (and love) is a subject few mature writers have approached.  Pera has given us a unique journey into hell and makes us care and want to cause a sea change.  I eagerly await the next challenge from Brian Pera.  Good stuff, this!	2000-12-20
2175870:US	52496677	R24HW5NPNM4GN9	0679755403	930682613	The Beautiful Room Is Empty: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	You CAN go home again!	Being in a mood of reverence for Edmund White's biographies of Jean Genet and Marcel Proust and having enjoyed &quot;The Married Man&quot;, I have returned to White's career-making novels and find that they not only withstand the test of time, they are indeed truly even finer novels than remembered.  &quot;The Beautiful Room Is Empty&quot; is the best summation of the agonies of growing into adulthood and finding that niche of destiny as any book around.  But not only is this one man's journey to self acceptance, it is a journal of sociologic change that peaked in the Stonewall Bar and forever changed the way sexuality is viewed, lived and accepted.  White's descriptive powers are at their peak as is his ability to draw characters so believeable that they seem like old personal acquaintances.  And they are that....for those who met them in 1988 when this book first burst on the scene.  This is history, psychology, a dissection and appreciation about Love all eloquently and entertainingly told by a master craftsman!	2000-12-14
2176551:US	52496677	R2BRNY9LKK4GJH	0299167305	92691498	Stars in My Eyes	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Notes from the eye of the Artist	Don Bachardy's stature as a gifted draughtsman continues to grow.  And now with the current growing respect and exposure of his beloved Christopher Isherwood vis a vis the posthumous Diaries and the notes and essays recently published, Bachardy's gifts as a writer are keeping pace with his important drawings, documenting the art culture of the past century.  This beautifully designed book shares the wholeness of his craft:  not only do we see important drawings of important people, we also hear the secrets of the encounter that resulted in the drawings.  Sitting for Don Bachardy is tough - a joy, but hard work.  To read how his silent sessions are processed in his mind and subsequently in his notes written concurently with his drawings opens an important door, not only for understanding Bachardy's keen observations but for the entire genre of portrait making.  This is a delightful read and visual excursion....and contains secrets about famous prople we all thought we knew well!	2000-12-14
2178442:US	52496677	R10Y6AW5K8RDWM	189326310X	590506201	Flesh & Stone	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Art from a new vantage	Not only is Edward Lucie-Smith one of our more important art historians today and undoubtedly the most published (!), he is one of the more creative thinkers in bringing all of the art world to the public.  In this volume he juxtaposes sculpture from all ages with photographs that seem as timeless as the stone bodies he emulates.  The photography is his own, and though we have seen incidental works by him in other volumes, this essay is the first to my knowledge to extensively survey his output. The lighting, the angles, the cropping of the images all provide the viewer with an interpretive stance.  Lucie-Smith does not settle for suggestions - he makes us work to understand the beauty of line.  At times I see the surface of the images of his madels as too grainy for reproduction, but exposure to his previous thoughts and treatises assure that he knows exactly what he is doing.  This is a very different - and welcome - take on the relationshp of sculpture and photography from the ever inventive Lucie-Smith.	2000-12-12
2186309:US	52496677	RSDMK7WEWW794	0375707409	749110847	A Boy's Own Story	Books	5	30	33	N	N	An enduring masterwork	Edmund White is one of America's finest writers.  From his early forays into a then edgey genre of stories that happen to include in depth studies of gay men and their questionable place in the public fabric to his current biographies of famous writers (Proust, et al) to his assessment in literary form of the AIDS crisis and it effect on life in all of America, White has become ever more erudite, polished in technique, and fascinating to explore.  Because of this current prominence among gifted writers it is rewarding to return to the early works and see if they contained all the seeds of his success.  Having just re-read &quot;A Boy's Own Story&quot; I am even more deeply moved and impressed with White than I remembered.  This treasureable book is not just a Pink Triangle groupie read.  This is wondrously beautiful writing by all standards.  White knows how to make the English linguage sing with acute observations that begin with a keen delineation of line but then blossom fully into metaphors than can only be called poems.  These descriptions apply not only to walks in nature or observed qualities of light at varying times of day, but they are used to define his characters in such a vivid manner that they literally step off the page, indelibly.<br />And the story.....this tale of the grappling of a youth over questions not only of sexuality but of coming of age in social, religious, educational, dream vs reality strikes chords in all of us.  His unnamed narrator is in a way the Everyman of Youth.  White does not go for the happy Hollywood ending: he writes about the truths of decisions gone awry, dreams dismemebered, realites coming into being.  I would hope that &quot;A Boy's Own Story&quot; would be part of the required reading list for the liberal arts schools who care about not only quality of literature but also of complexity of becoming an adult.	2000-12-06
2196648:US	52496677	R5LH8BLKVFPKZ	0789303965	337684318	Naked Men,  Too: Liberating the Male Nude, 1950-2000	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Better as a continuing journal than a photography book	Following &quot;Naked Men&quot; with &quot;Naked Men Too&quot; adds to the resource literature on the development of gender perception during the past century.  This is an informative book (yes, there is actually material to READ as well as to see) and to this reviewer the words are better than the varying degrees of quailty in the photography and art.  This book may initally appeal to the voyeur but the accompanying text is concise and very helpful in exploring the ever present question of &quot;why is frontal male nudity such a problem for contemporary viewers?&quot;. Recommended.	2000-11-27
2197118:US	52496677	R1KBMXS9M2EVCZ	0374520380	731343518	A Single Man	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Once again, lovingly	Time is a good judge of quality writing.  Returning to Isherwood's little masterpiece &quot;A Single Man&quot; is like revisiting those events of our lives that we recall as special, memorable, unique, irreplaceable.  One day in the life of a middle aged man is the sole reason for writing this story, but in that one day we are given insights into Isherwood's thoughts on education, social order, morality, bigotry, and relationships - casual and bonding.  With razor sharp clarity Isherwood deliniates characters, simple situations, places, moods, conversations so that at the final pages we comfortably join his autobigraphical George as he slips into sleep, having walked through &quot;a day in the life&quot; experience.  Christopher Isherwood continues to surprise us even now some fifteen years after his death.  Perhaps the publication of is diaries, and the added luxury of his life partner Don Bachardy's drawings and reveries.....perhaps these are reminding us what an important literary figure and thinker he was.  Time is not only kind to Isherwood...it is lauding!	2000-11-27
2205387:US	52496677	R3K3YM334M9PDJ	0688174361	447229186	Hornito: My Lie Life	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Much more than a witty diversion!	Mike Albo has talent to burn.  This adroitly written diary/memoir/fantasia of the past and current struggles of a young man to establish a meaningful relationship in a world that is centered on transience is at once humorous (even hilarious) and soulful (even sad). Albo cleverly writes as though this were an autobiogrphical confession, so much so that it is difficult not to buy in to every bizarre recall and projection.  How much of this is fantasy, how much reportage? To this  reader there is no discerning that line.  Much of main character Mike's recounting of his childhood sexual fantasies and acting out sound like terrific stand-up comedian material, but since they are so carefully woven into the fabric of his young adult escapades as the novel speeds along, they gain credence,  and in making all of this story credible, Albo forces us to examine the sociology of the last quarter of the 20th Century.  There is a lot of stern observation about our status as social beings.  And I think this is the test of a really fine humorist: Make 'em laugh like crazy until they go home and, in solitude, think and even cry a bit. A solid Bravo for Hornito!	2000-11-19
2213526:US	52496677	R1C85DD1EQY6MA	0670891770	746289941	A Friend of the Earth	Books	1	3	11	N	Y	Out of sync with his talent	An ardent reader and admirer of TC Boyle I grabbed this book as soon as it was released, prejudging it to be another great book. Wrong!  Although Boyle's writing gifts are solid, this depressingly dreary story is neither innovative, clever, wise or entertaining.  Reading this little book is like mistakenly walking through the door of one of the plethora of the current sci-fi Alien movies.  They all BLEND into drab and gory hopelessness without a window of redemption.....except turning the final page, realizing you made it through it!	2000-11-12
2216070:US	52496677	R2VRK0XKPQPCJM	0807072435	78236821	Writing as a Way of Healing: How Telling Our Stories Transforms Our Lives	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Encouragement for the writer in each of us	DeSalvo writes from personal experience, from understanding the prison of secrets/pain/abuse/emotional trauma, and she does so in a simple format that encourages us all to come to grips with our demons.  Having written poems while in Vietnam while a Battalion Surgeon for the USMC as means of codifing pain to make it tolerable, I have been in DeSalvo's &quot;trenches&quot;.  But in reading this warm little book I am returning to that personal prison and this time, with DeSalvo's help I think I might stand a better chance to get it right! Even if you are not interested in writing, this book is so nurturing in its approach to dealing with buried or hidden trauma that it is almost guaranteed to help all sensitive readers read...and live...better.	2000-11-09
2229289:US	52496677	R2PA8IHWVSBRJU	0688171419	616348548	War Boy	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A new art form	Much is made of new music that explores various permutations of sounds/instrument combinations, or new visual arts forms of paintings and digitalized images, but here we have a uniquely gifted WRITER who is presenting us with a new vocabulary means to coalesce words into a novel.  Artspeak mavins beware!  For the average bookstore browser this little novel &quot;War Boy&quot; will probably be off-putting, the first pages seemingly being in a different language.  But stay with this venture and the means more than justify the end.  How better to place words on a page which create a new vocabulary, imitate sounds with letters and numerals, than to make the narrator of this tough tale of living on the wild side a deaf/mute teenager!  Maybe this is how &quot;signing&quot; sounds!  A few minor writing flaws aside, this is a powerful little book that holds together an absorbing adventure like an exhilarating rollercoaster ride.  After reading Hillsbery I'm reminded of how the public must have felt when James Joyce &quot;invented&quot; stream of conscious writing, or when John Cage spooked us with sentence fragments,  or ee cummings did away with large case letters and punctuation, or even when Gerard Manley Hopkins first uttered his word dances.  This book may not be for everyone, but for those readers who like to explore new arenas of expression while enjoying a finely spun story, hop on!	2000-10-28
2233469:US	52496677	RUMKIUCQQ2GLZ	0060929480	15206927	Nine Gates: Entering the Mind of Poetry, Essays	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Eloquent musings	Jane Hirshfield's &quot;Nine Gates: Entering the Mind of Poetry&quot; is one of those books that would serve a very broad audience if only intrinsic worth were the driver for PR.  For all the &quot;self help&quot; books that that drop on and off the Best Seller List like theatre popcorn, this sharing of what many would deem an obsolete facet of mental exercise is simultaneously a gift to writers AND a guide to experiencing communication in more ways than poetry. Hirshfield is a gifted poet and her comforting and immensely helpful insights will aid even the most &quot;blocked&quot; poet.  She addresses &quot;originality&quot;, finding the way toward ethereal concentration,  adroitly answers begging questions regarding translation of poems in other languages......all with the most sensitive excerpts of poetry imaginable to illustrate her points.  This little tome is not only for the writing poets, it is for those who wish to understand the mystery of the meaning of poetry.	2000-10-25
2233811:US	52496677	R1ZLKX9D2SI9BC	0312262140	279237839	One Mykonos: Being Ancient, Being Islands, Being Giants, Being Gay	Books	3	11	11	N	Y	An essential little book IF you are traveling to Mykonos...	I wanted to love this book.  Like so many others I long to experience the magic of Mykonos and opted for this book as a surrogate.  It is well written, but it is more for the reader interested in Greek history than those who expect to discover the essence of an island, a haven, a fantasy. Highly recommended as a suitcase tuck if you're planning a vacation to the Greek Islands, but if you crave the flavor of the place this is a disappointingly dry read.	2000-10-25
2234582:US	52496677	R12PJZHMPHQ67J	006017143X	807655132	The Night Listener: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	The Seduction by a Bejeweled Elephant	Refreshingly, now and then a book is released that reminds us what the art of telling stories is all about. Maupin's newest success in the field of novel birthing does just that ...and so very much more.  The Night Listener is a FINE mystery/love story/reminiscence and as such it is diffficult to stop turning the pages, so involved is the unwinding of the tale.<br />But to my eyes and mind this book is so much more than just a well-told tale complete with allegory and metaphor.  This book studies the achingly long, ever-present clash of father/son relationships.  Whether concocted as an adoptive father in search of a needy youth as in this book, or just examining the way all men are challenged by this complicated love/hate, approach/avoid, mimic/revolt interaction we live through as sons and subsequently as fathers, Maupin serves us a study of one of the core dilemmas we face.<br />And as for the structure of this immensley rewarding novel, Maupin has given us the choices to determine our own resolutions about his beautifully drawn characters. In the early pages of the book he admits that his way of relating stories is always altered by flights of fancy, or &quot;bejeweling an elephant&quot;; that his tale takes us on such a kaleidoscopic ride is enhanced by his starting out with this sort of honesty.  And in truth, isn't this the way we all electively distort history as we relate it.... to fulfill our hope and fantansies of how we actually exist? Thank you, Armistead Maupin, for another jewel of a tale!	2000-10-24
2241548:US	52496677	ROG2TF25BUGNO	0684833964	923381245	Vanitas	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Adressing love in the time of plague	Joseph Olshan continues to offer credence to the fact that his is a fine craftsman of the English language.  His ability to delineate characters is keen and refreshing.  &quot;Vanitas&quot; as a story wanders through England and the United States weaving a tale of intrigue, mystery, and passion among 4 disparate central characters.  Rarely has the case for the agony of intimacy been so carefully explored. The current plague of AIDS has slipped away from literature in the past few years as new treatments and media discussion have made it seem somehow less terrible.  It is books such as this that place this tragic quirk of nature in the foreground, making us remember how it has changed all our lives and how it continues to raise its specter in seemingly coincidental ways. This is a well written novel that carries a new warning that Vanitas of Solomon's writings and especially the descriptive use of the Still Life as a reminder of mortality is a potent as ever.	2000-10-18
2244189:US	52496677	R26HOKWFZTABYO	0823023346	804385969	Horse: From Noble Steeds to Beasts of Burden	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Another little gem	In the same format as the popular books ZOO, CAT, DOG, SEX comes another overview of art and writings from ancient times to the present.  Lavishly illustrated with all forms of art dealing with the Horse, author Harrison has blended academia with whimsy and the result is a treat for art and animal lovers of all ages. This is a terrific item for a gift.....	2000-10-16
2254159:US	52496677	R5GYJL84MA3UN	0425151905	868907229	Nightswimmer	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Abreast with the best of them	Joseph Olshan has achieved a nearly impossible task: a successful novel about the kaleidoscope of emotional rides that constitute the anticipation, the terror, the neuroses/psychoses, the obsession and the gamut of highs and lows of that strange encounter called 'falling in love'. Not that potent love stories are oddities, but when the characters are all males in varying degrees of acceptance/indulgence of being gay, such rollercoaster rides often become either merely taudry, steamy sex encounters or distanced longings such as the wondrous &quot;Maurice&quot; of EM Forster.  Nightswimmer takes us many places we know and more places we haven't been, and does so in such convincing style that we feel like part of the in-crowd of these perfectly drawn characters.  For the reader who wants to understand both sides of the approach/avoidance magnet of being hopelessly in love, here it is.  With enough use of metaphor to keep the story universal, Olshan has written a durable novel that already is showing the test of time.  I'm happy this book is becoming more available.  Recommended highly - thanks to a friend's recommendation!	2000-10-09
2264022:US	52496677	RBI5RJ83E8OKZ	0684829924	599604173	Dream Boy: A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	A sustained whisper of promise	Dream Boy may have been early Jim Grimsley, but I read it after absorbing his &quot;Comfort and Joy&quot; and &quot;Winter Birds&quot;: now I can see why it gained so much attention as a promising beginning novel....the subsequent &quot;diaries&quot; of Grimsley's characters are as stunningly mature as this little beginning novel promises.<br />Style.  Grimsley has style - his own method of finding obscure characters, making them completely believable, giving them life beyond the last page of his books.  Dream Boy is a book for the widest audience, not just another good story about same sex relationships. Delivering the delicate vulnerability of discovering the joy and the terror of love and physical attraction has rarely been so well related.  The magical ending, suggested by the title of the book, leaves us, the reader, to decide what really happened, much in the fashion deMaupassant stories. This is a fine little novel with a very large messsage that needs and deserves our attention.	2000-10-01
2267235:US	52496677	RVON36E3JZ8A1	0312202814	464717878	The Boy in the Lake	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	A discus, quietly hurling	The title of Eric Swanson's little masterwork tells it all. The Boy in the Lake.  Doesn't seem very provocative or profound.  Swanson's elegant simplicity of nature in storytelling doesn't warn us.  Everything about his novel suggests that we sit back and enjoy a tidbit of Americana.....until the author so successfully traps us in his web that we are caught unaware. Who or what is the boy in the lake?<br />This is how we all have felt  in the agonies of growing into our adult selves.  The gamut of awakening of the hormones, the ever-present drive to feel needed, to be loved, to be noticed, to not be destined to &quot;grow old and die alone&quot; - all of these growing pains are woven in such a craftsman manner that in less than 200 pages we have met characters who are archetypes..for ourselves. This is very fine writing indeed, and the protagonist journeys back and forth through his history and his present with such ease and natural pace that it is a joy to stoll beside him. This is a very fine book by a gifted author of prodigious talent.	2000-09-28
2273633:US	52496677	R3HEWERDG05LYA	0688175694	181072646	The Notorious Dr. August: His Real Life and Crimes	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	A novel of Epic scope yet wondrously intimate	Christopher Bram has written perhaps the most unique and adventurous novel of the new century.  By his own closing page note he attributes his inspiration for this amazing novel to great writers both of history and contemporary.  The Notorious Dr August scoops us up from the very first page and runs with us hand in hand through the extraordinary life of a dreamer who starts as a fife player in the Civil War, becomes intimately bound to a freed slave, turns a potentially harmful sexual history into a revealing life pattern, using his musical skill to become a Spiritulaist Pianist to wander fascinating European cities in support of an adopted family.  But oh, trying to capsulize this incredibly well-spun story into a sentence is as difficult as condensing Joyce's Ullyses into a paragraph.  You simply must read this magical tale of intrigue, love, commitment, spiritual journeys for yourself.  Bram is a consummate storyteller and has the guts to present us with characters who are potentially unloveable and make us thrill to sail through their development and destinies.  This book has it all - the complete spectrum of love, the importance of self discovery, an examination of the post Civil War dilemma of racism, and the struggle of the Victorian era coming to grips with real people instead of comfortable stereotypes. Funny, tender, tragic, moving, entertaining - A thouroughly wondrous book by an incredibly gifted writer.  A MUST READ for everyone!	2000-09-23
2287226:US	52496677	R1AHFG0H1MZHQ2	0393311066	193634257	The Courage to Create	Books	5	102	112	N	N	The Call to Engage	Some books age like vintage wines, gathering a film of dust that<br />disuse protects until that happy &quot;discovery&quot; by an old<br />friend.  Rollo May's &quot;The Courage to Create&quot; was written in<br />1975 - in a time when the presence of the atom bomb created an anxiety<br />that prevented people to create for a future that was unsure, at best.<br />Now in 2000, twenty five years of cosmic angst have intensified to a<br />fear of the limits of even a glimpse of a future and it is reaffirming<br />to return to Rollo May to regain the courage to &quot;rage against the<br />dying of the light.&quot; In eloquent but inordinately accessible<br />language May surveys the entire concept of Creativity with terse, well<br />selected passages from Plato and the ancients to Cezanne to Tillich<br />and Kierkegard and Thomas Wolfe. This is not a &quot;How To&quot; book<br />or self-help rapid- read to solve superficial problems.  This little<br />book, when read slowly and thoughtfully, guides us through concepts<br />that allow us to regain a state of positive thinking in a time when it<br />is far more popular to dwell on our day to day foibles and transient<br />misjudgements.  The discovery of the self is his most important<br />driver, yet he doesn't stop there.  Taking that newly discovered self<br />and building the courage to acknowledge encounters, engagements,<br />epiphanies, and a usable acceptance of limits - this sounds so simple<br />in a review, but when May has your complete attention, more happens to<br />us than just learning about creativity: we learn about really<br />living. ....	2000-09-11
2299424:US	52496677	RJ5MA8DQUP9U6	0670840653	26682903	Color of Summer, or the New Garden of Earthly Delights	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	Magical Realism...or is it simply Surrealism?	If the famous altarpiece of Hieronymous Bosch , similarly titled the Garden of Earthly Delights, could become words, those words would probably  read much like Reinaldo Arenas' last volume.  As with any fine writer (and  make no bones about it, Arenas is one of the best of the Latin writers),  the act of drawing an audience into a book is part enjoyment but also part  labor.  Plan on working to catch all the subtle metaphors and references as  well as the obvious in-your-face slapstick that flows continously from  these pages.<br />Arenas' bifurcated feelings about his native Cuba are well  know to the readers of his other novels:  Cuba he adores - Castro he  loathes.  And as the author was dying from AIDS in the US  he was able to  concentrate all of his ambiguous responses to his native homeland into a  grand guignol carnival Farewell Party.  The precis for the story is the  preparation for the celebration of Fifo's (thinly disguised name for Fidel  Castro) &quot;50th&quot; anniversary of dictatorship.  Arenas very cleverly  separates his personality into three faces - Gabriel, Reinaldo, and Skunk  in a Funk - in order to give us the many facets of view of living in Cuba  now and before Castro.  His characters are hilariously drawn campy  creatures in an endless pursuit of earthly delights (aka gay sex) and if  the interchange of gender pronouns (him/her) at times gets a bit overused,  the premise is sound and keeps the stew bubbling.  Even the atrocities  attributed to &quot;Fifo&quot; are handled in sure polished slapstick that  we are drawn more to laughter than to loathing.  Cuba is finally liberated  by being separated from its mooring to the sea floor  to float out  blissfully toward Europe..or....<br />Arenas was a brilliant writer who died  too young, but as this final translation of his output proves, his was a  significant voice not only as a gay writer, but as a revolutionary thinker  under the duress of loss of freedom that still plagues Cuba.  Highly  recommended book....just plan to work some and to take your time.......recommended book....just plan to work some and to take your time.......	2000-09-01
2323528:US	52496677	R2QDIBP7G5FEK	0299167003	294658798	The Isherwood Century: Essays on the Life and Work of Christopher Isherwood	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Isherwood would approve of this form of biography	&quot;The Isherwood Century&quot;.  What a great choice of title for this invaluable  (and well edited) collections of essays, interviews,  ruminations on the life and influence of Christopher Isherwood.  While his  is a household name, primarily beacuse of the worldwide success and  endurance of &quot;Cabaret&quot; the musical based on his Berlin Stories (I  am a Camera, Goodbye to Berlin, etc), this informed and endlessly  interesting survey provides a fine documentation for Isherwood's position  of importance on 20th Century literature, his positive role model for gay  writers and all gay people who care about significant relationships, his  courage as an early pacifist, his impact on those students fortunate enough  to have studied in his unique classes.  Reading first hand encounters from  such a broad spectrum of friends and reporters always give a more fine  tuned view than a straight out biography.  And for a man whose literary  skills polished the concept of autobigraphy that is matched by few others,  this is quite an achievement.<br />Reading &quot;The Isherwood Century&quot;  is discovering an involved panorama of life in the past century -  politically, artistically, internationally, psychologically, and  spiritually.  More than a memoir, this book remains intimate despite its  scope.  At last we have a reference (outside of his own wondrous diaries)  that validates the greatness of this significant human being.	2000-08-14
2334441:US	52496677	R159IMBNZPSNIS	0670880574	193009937	Marcel Proust	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Accomplishing the Impossible	When the dust settled after the Millennium lists of Best Books of the 20th  Century, there was Marcel Proust's magnum opus  Recherche le temps perdu at  the head of the line.  Though many of us struggled through all the volumes  as a college assignment, fewer of us returned to the masterpiece, much less  explored the ambiguitites of the author's life and times that afforded such  a work.  Well, here in easily digestible prose is a succinct history of a  phenomenal writer (written by an equally  phenomenal writer) that opens the  door to more ventursome readers to explore the &quot;Best of the 20th  Century&quot; writing.  Edmund White distills all the facets of Proust's  persona and what results is a fastidiously correct picture of a fertile  imagination and man.  How better to understand the turn of the century in  all its multifaceted  changes than to simply read this fine biography?  Another work  of seeming staggering proportions reduced to a gentle and  absorbing read by one of our better authers writing today.  Hats off!	2000-08-07
2335925:US	52496677	R3C0V5L5QXWFJE	0375400052	187052723	The Married Man	Books	5	22	24	N	Y	A Contemporary Parable	Edmund White's gifts as an  author are indisputable.  Whether he sweeps us along in schlastic AND entertaining bigoraphies(Genet and Proust), explores  the tenderness of gay relationships ( The Beautiful Room is Empty, A Boy's  Own Story, The Farewell Symphony, etc) or just simply writes a novel like  his current &quot;The Married Man&quot;,  he continues to affirm his gifts  of powerful imagery, unique observation of the mundane, and just plain  story telling.  But I find this current book more than the sum of his  gifts; I think we have a powerful parable here that addresses the  vulnerability and indomitabilty of the human spirit in times of profound  stress.  Others have accomplished this in writing about the Great Plague of  the Middle Ages, the Holocoaust of the last centtury, the countless wars  that have produced some of our best poets ( Wilfrid Owen, Walt Whitman, WH  Auden, Siegfried Sassoon, etc....).  White draws upon the blight of the  AIDS epidemic and its smoldering aftermath to place his characters at the  stake and find redemption.  This is a splendid love story (stories) that  keeps us wondering about the bizarre reasons we choose our  &quot;soulmates&quot;, our lovers, until the final chapters.<br />A Married  Man is more about how we elect to let the world know us, of how we hide who  we are - at times even from ourselves.  The inevitable disasters that  accompany living with a mask are not condemned here,  but whispered as an  argument for how we survive despite our attempts to be self sufficient.  If  there is an overlying message in White's opus (and there, in truth, are  many in this wise novel!) it is that compassion is our antidote to the  inevitablity of death no matter what course our life takes.<br />Whether we  have been care givers or care receivers during this time of AIDS, this book  will touch even the flintiest reader.	2000-08-06
2345711:US	52496677	R269OLOFGFHOE6	1560850914	999354309	Trevor Southey: Reconciliation	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Feeling Whole	Trevor Southey is an artist of rare gifts.  Not only is he a fine technician ( one of the finest figurative painters working today), he is also of bountiful spirit.  This monograph is far more than an elegant  artbook...it is a journey of a life which though rich in history and  substrate is obviously a work in progress.  Southey's paintings, prints and  sculptures are presented in chronological order.  But more importantly the  well written texts introduce us to a life most unique even before we see an  image.  Once the man's paintings and other works are the focus we are  treated to a running poetic dialogue from the artist's own pen.  Finishing  the first read of this lavishly produced book merely opens a door through  which we may pass, transformed, into the whole volume again.  Tender,  breathtakingly beautiful, and spiritually uplifing.  This belongs in the  library of everyone who is commited to figurative art, to all who care  about the sanctity of the individual spirit.	2000-07-31
2361130:US	52496677	R3136IKPR8AVFW	0312192711	470155683	Glove Puppet	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Three/three/three books in one!	&quot;Glove Puppet&quot; is obviously a first novel - a competent and often engaging foray into the bizarre relationship between a sexually  precocious kid and his adopted stepfather.  The first part of the novel  seems a solid beginning about the coming of age of a child of the streets  who by chance is adopted by a needy male dancer to replace his own lost  son.  Good start.<br />Part 2 deals primarily with an out and out gay porno  theme capped by the development of a &quot;father/son&quot; tryst that ends  in imprisonment of the &quot;paedophilic&quot; father.  It is  a downhill  slide from there.<br />Part 3 is odd backtracking and reportage of the events  and reactions of Australian society to the early demise of the imprisoned  father - memorial service, predictions, reflections.<br />Three books: three  writing styles - conflicted at best - all in a quck read format of just  over 200 pages.  But Drinnan does keep our attention.  And if you want to  delve into the seemy side of underground sex/drugs/etc in Australia, this  is good entertainment.  I wonder what he'll do next.........	2000-07-20
2373821:US	52496677	RKILIHJUWTEV2	0316777722	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Coming up for air	Ever notice that most of the books we elect to read are tied to that notion that we need to constantly be aware that we are bettering ourselves?  You know, keep up with the new novelists, pace yourself with philosophy,  social comment, heavy thesaurus-impacted stories, somehow neglecting that  tiny inner voice that says &quot;Entertain me!&quot;  Well, here is the  antidote: another skyride with David Sedaris whose Mark Twain style  surfaces shared foibles and makes them hilarious instead of embarassing  moments. I didn't find myself laughing out loud the way all the promo for  this little tome guarantees, but I sure stayed with it, big grin spreading  across my face, even giving up an invitation for a night out at an escapist  triller movie in favor of finishing this little piece of joy.  David  Sedaris is funny and tender and unafraid to talk about his thinking  patterns, +/- autobiographical history, and his incidental sexuality like  most folks ramble on about the weather.<br />Puts things into  perspective.........and boy do we need that!	2000-07-12
2375751:US	52496677	RLIALGD9YPATD	039594113X	500972804	Hunts in Dreams	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	The Pick of the Litter	Among the many fine young novelists who keep reassuring us that the art of writing and storytelling is not even a little ill, let alone dead, Tom Drury extends his credentials as one of our better new novelists with this  choice little novel Hunts in Dreams.  In much the same way as gifted  painters can select a few ordinary, mundane objects, study them , arrange  them and light them, then paint that Still Life in a way that we as  observors can &quot;discover&quot; beauty, so is the method for Drury's  composition of words.  This man speaks with such clarity of detail without  any wasted motion, seeks out or creates characters who if they passed us on  a street would go  noticed, and with these gifts he creates vibrant story  and mood and, yes, introspection.  Who among us has not encountered on same  level the day to day inspirations and tragedies that confront this quietly  dysfuntional family unit?  The choices his characters make feel logical in  their own thwarted ways.  In 200 pages and in a time frame of four days  Drury synthesizes what has happened to us in America, making the manageble  scope of a small Midwestern town applicable to even our largest megopolis.  This is such FINE writing that it begs for repeated readings ......even in  groups, aloud, so that the humanity it embraces gains a shared voice among  people for whom you care.  Highly recommended!	2000-07-11
2393979:US	52496677	R3QQBOFIZOQ12P	1573220256	842182403	Ethics for the New Millennium	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Read this bit by bit ...so that it really works	In this short volume the Dalai Lama speaks more clearly than ever before.  &quot;Ethics&quot; is much more than a self-help book: it is a tablet on which we are guided to alter our perceptions, to not be afraid to repair  our injured selves so that we can emerge from his words a more significant  member of the cosmos of which we are a part.  Rarely has  &quot;compassion&quot; been so tenderly taught.<br />This is a book to keep by  your bed, to be read and re-read over a course of time to let your mind and  dreams absorb the simplicity of the wisdom of this remakably gentle man.	2000-07-01
2395398:US	52496677	R2IYQRWK47948P	0811214303	850711751	Vertigo	Books	5	36	40	N	Y	Another wondrous journey!	WG Sebald is proving to be one of the most consistly unique, interesting writers today.  This his third translated book (though his actual first novel) will undoubtedly sear his stamp of genius on the minds of serious  readers around the world.<br /><br />Simply stated, Sebald writes about the way the  mind works - whether retracing synaptical strands that are memories,  observing the world thru the windows of trams and trains as though watching  an art film, or meandering through the visual stimuli that force us to  confront fugitive connections with history or past lives or real but buried  tragedies.  Reading Sebald is like wandering through early morning or  gloaming mists: what we see or hear or think is relative to how our minds  process this information.<br /><br />Sebald is obsessed with travel and with any  obsession he delivers the fear of strange places as they bear witness to  personal history related to actual history.  He populates his travels with  people so real they almost extend a touching hand while at the same time he  places legends such as Stendhal, Kafka, Tiepelo in such vivid form that  they seem of our time.<br /><br />The rest of what Sebald does so wondrously is  the magic that happens between writer and reader, and to give that away in  description would be robbing the new reader of the pleasures of an  intensely gratifying affair.  This is writing at its best and I think the  title \\"Vertigo\\" also describes the feeling of closing the final  page of this pregnant journey.	2000-06-30
2406433:US	52496677	R3R15ZPP48YBTN	0312205147	543338950	The Coming Storm	Books	5	15	17	N	N	An absorbingly interesting novel	In \\"The Coming Storm\\" author Paul Russell has gifted us with a novel  rich in character development, moody evocations of time and place, lyrical phrasing and flow of style.  But more important to this reader is  the aftermath of closing the last page knowing that there is much to ponder  - about mortality, the transience of youth (both in beauty and innocence),  the vagaries of love (or the lack of it), the mystery of obsession.  Louis,  Claire, Tracy, Noah, and even Libby, Reid, Chris and the peripheral  characters  all are placed in this tale of life in the cloister of a middle  school in the East for a purpose: no wasted time in development of filler  in this book!  And despite the knowledge presented in the first chapter  that we are on a journey to visit the inevitable \\"storms\\" that  come into all our lives, the book propels us along with individual  character asides that serve to enrich the final fabric of realizing that it  is not so much the coming storms that alter our lives, but how we survive  them and their aftermath.  This is a novel that is outwardly about  gay  relationships in about every spectrum of time, but more importantly Paul  Russell bridges the gap of placing these relationships in the real world.  Whether letting light into the closeted gays' domain or celebrating the  senuous highs of men comfortable with their sexual stance, this book is a  richly drawn tale that leaves us satisfied and hungry for the next work. June, 2000	2000-06-24
2446783:US	52496677	RV9752S6Q48Y7	0374111197	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	Shamelessly Romantic!	Urged to read Seamus Heaney's translation of BEOWULF by the Best Sellers Lists (I felt the need to know why this old warhorse was getting so much popular attention...), I must join the ranks of readers who now feel a  resurgence of faith in the reading public!  We've all been through the  original translations somewhere in our schooling and I never considered  this an important poem.  But what a wallop it now packs!  Heaney's macho  way with words and his tossing about of impossible names that challenge  even Wagnerites rarely gets in the way of the sheer romanticism of  centuries-old tale telling.  This is &quot;Fantasia&quot; without needing  the music, an epic, bragadocio good guy/bad guy story that leaps off the  beautifully constructed and designed pages and just asks to be enjoyed.  I  doubt I'll ever stuggle through the Old English version provided here page  for page, but I'm sure I'll be re-reading this bonanza whenever I feel the  need for heroes.  And we thought blood &amp; guts &amp; violence was a  contemporary problem in the movies....!	2000-06-02
2452901:US	52496677	R28J1QGLBLHHVX	0679432922	298572387	Leap	Books	4	34	36	N	N	And you thought it was just a bizarre painting.....	Terry Tempest Williams.  A new author for me.  Because of my fascination for the paintings of Hieronymus Bosch I entered the door of this book much the way I'd join a lively discussion of a favorite topic. GOOD choice. This  book is a very successful diversion that touches on so many viable  excursions that it holds the reader in awe.<br />Williams is a terrific  observor. Her extended encounter with Bosch's Garden of Earthly Delights is  at once genuinely academic while acting as a springboard for stream of  consciousness poetic and spiritual ramblings.  What a word smith she is!  The Prado Museum in Madrid, where the painting dwells, is a delicious maze  of antiquity with all  coridors leading to the kaleidoscopic joys of the  Garden.  She studies each panel of the famous altarpiece and shares her  fears, vulnerabilities, and passions willingly.  I felt at times I was in  the darker side of a confessional booth, so personal is her communication.  But aside from the luxuriant entertainment of her transmongrification of a  painting, Williams also shares with us a strange journey through the  history and philosophy of the Mormon Church - a fascinating subject I've  never encountered in novel form.<br />Williams in the end has provided us with  an uncommonly entertaining, even picaresque, journey through asethetics,  art history, religion, and spiritualism, sharing with us the fact that  Heaven, Hell, and especially our individual time on planet earth are  creations of our own making.  And all this from the meticulous study of a  well known painting.......what a delightful feat!	2000-05-30
2470135:US	52496677	RU6KK51H5UG4	0375409084	71254966	Gertrude and Claudius	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A novel that offers a refreshing diversion	Gertrude and Claudius as a novel is sheer entertainment.  Given that everyone knows the Shakespeare Hamlet, with so many movie versions cropping up yearly, it is a pleasure to see a contemporary writer of the stature of  Updike apply the bard's techniques of story telling to introduce the  dysfunctional family Hamlet ultimately destroys.  If Updike is tedious at  the outset of this novel - who in their sane mind wants to wade through the  mire of Danish myth/history replete with irritating name changes, period  language, etc - once his tenor is set he takes us on a rather winsome  journey of royalty, class, passion, adultery, murder and courtplotting that  makes for a page-turner of a novel.<br />In the end, I think Updike's novel,  for all its meanderings, gives us a broader vista of why Hamlet is so  troubled when the curtain opens on Shakespeare's play.  There are insights  here worth pondering.  This is a great little book for an evening's  diversion.	2000-05-19
2476250:US	52496677	R1ZXX9B765GE6F	067084134X	855770597	Ravelstein	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A resounding triumph	How fortunate we are that Saul Bellow has the courage and adroit capability to perform this act of magic and love: here is a brilliant novel, a stunning biography of a friendship, and a journey through the  centuries of dialogue of philosophy and poetry.  Bellow is a gifted  craftsman with the English language, Given.  He understands character  development and creates wholly credible players from the most bizarre and  challenging gene pool, Given.  That he is terse and succinct is well  established.  So on opening this rather short novel we settle into the  knowledge that the journey ahead is secure, that whatever the story  unfolding, it will be brilliantly crafted.<br />The utter joy for me is the  fact that Bellow has gifted us on so many levels - fascinating reading,  wholly memorable characters, an undercurrent of autobiography and memoirs,  and at the same time he addresses the big questions we all face - the  importance of love,  the world view of our philosopher forbears and  contemporaries, death and what follows, and true , that is to say TRUE  friendship.<br />I love this book.  I found myself marking certain pages that  held memorable crystaline lines, such as &quot;The simplest of human beings  is, for that matter, esoteric and radically mysterious.&quot;  I know I  will return to RAVELSTEIN often, probably every time I choose to share it  with someone I love.	2000-05-16
2511995:US	52496677	R3MSAJL4J1VKS0	0691033544	861651048	The Object as Subject: Studies in the Interpretation of Still Life	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	Still Life as a Forum for Scholars	Editor Anne Lowenthal has gathered five contemporary scholar colleagues to share her volume of essays exploring the meanings of Still Life painting and photography.  Now if this sounds like a session of a convention of art  educators, you've been there.  But don't let the heavily footnoted and  bibliographed addenda to these six essays turn you away from exploring the  message within.  These are six intriguing and illuminating treatises on the  concept that Still Life paintings through time have been not the table  arrangements of random favorite items of the artists - meaningful to them  or just available, studio props - but are icons /social  commentary/spiritual statements/economic explorations that open for study  the periods of time when the paintings were made.  Having absorbed all this  information will allow the reader of this volume to really look at Still  Life art as guideposts to history.  A pear or apple will never be just that  again; the Garden of Eden is invoked, or the import  and culinary habits of  the Netherlands are referenced.  van Gogh's arrangements knock on the door  of 19th century literature.  Peto and Harnett painted &quot;racks&quot; of  momentos to entice collectors to buy their art product. None of this breaks  the magic of contemplation of this century's old genre of painting.  If  anything these essays feed our imagination and make our senses more keen  for the next visit to a galery or museum to view the timeless little  masterpieces that are finding new significance in the world of art  appreciation.	2000-04-26
2519208:US	52496677	R2ONJ3BY4UIMIU	0300072015	836922065	A History of Gay Literature: The Male Tradition	Books	5	11	13	N	N	An important, major survey that reads like a great history !	Poet and author Gregory Lewis has given us one of the more readable compendiums tracing the birth and maturation of gay themes and styles in literature.  Many authors have approached this task as a sensational  &quot;outing&quot; of famous writers whose true sexual preferences will  always be shrouded by the curtain of history.  Lewis has chosen to deal  with actual portions of writings in a scholastic method that creates a  credible case for his choices of inclusion in the lineage of gay writers.  Infused with brief descriptions of the social history of the times he is  describing (Greek, Roman, Middle Ages, Shakespeare/Marlowe, Melville,  Whitman, Wilde, Forster, Genet, Gide, Holleran, Leavitt, Monette, Auden,  Rechy, etc), he lays the timely mores for interpreting the written word and  in doing so does not preach to his readers.  And though this book is  heavily footnoted, researched, and extensive in its coverage of known and  less known writers, it is eminently readable!  Lewis is not afraid to let  us know when his &quot;opinion&quot; versus &quot;cold fact&quot; is being  stated; he allows us to grow to understand his method of decision making  and is generous in his quotations of passages that support his claims. For  the reader who wants a gossipy book of &quot;Secrets of the Closeted  Writers&quot; this is not the resource. For those who want to examine the  works of Thomas Mann, Shakespeare, E.M. Forster, Henry James, Plato,  Socrates (the list is endless) in an erudite manner, welcome to the feast.  Lewis is a gifted historian, social commentator, and gentle philosopher.  And this book is one to read over an unhurried, extended period of time.  There are riches here to savour as you read and for later as a reference  volume of considerable significance.	2000-04-22
2519212:US	52496677	RD5XNSAJ3DC9Q	1568581238	3341569	Assuming the Position: A Memoir of Hustling	Books	3	6	8	N	N	An aborted binge	&quot;A Memoir of Hustling&quot; suggests a case study of the psychodynamics of male prostitution, and as such appears to promise insights into behavioral abberations.  Sadly, this litle book is  disappointing on all counts.  Whitaker seems to confuse substance abuse or  the addictive personality with a precis for the inclusion of embracing the  world's oldest profession.  The result is a quick read about someone who  matters little, not because of where he stands in the line of humanity at  large, but because we are force-fed the dynamics of drugs (crystal meth,  cocaine, alcohol) to avoid dealing with the issues of interplay of human  needs - of both the supplier and the recipient.  This &quot;memoir&quot;  leaves the reader with the foggy haze of morning-after dehumanization of  excesses, experiences, vaporized into meaningless stupor.  Another case of  &quot;all the sad young men&quot;.....with little clue as to who the the  writer of these memoirs is.	2000-04-22
2575311:US	52496677	ROPYKTE9OC374	0380978091	838030657	The House of Gentle Men	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	An impressive debut	The House of Gentle Men as a title is enough to engage your curiosity into buying &quot;something new&quot;.  And that seduction carries through to the last page of this terse first novel by Kathy Hepinstall. &quot;The  House of Gentle Men&quot; is a solid piece of writing, one that introduces  a rich cast of wholly defined characters and drives in thought and style of  writing to an energetic end.  Role reversal - men nurturing women who have  been abused spiritually, physically, emotionally - works well within the  confines of this tale.  And though the story is predictable it marches  along with lovely style and conviction.  If the author seems bent on  raising the feminist flag a bit too high, then remember this is a first  novel. All the elements of fine story telling are here, in a style that is  eminently readible.  Future works (and let's all hope there will be other  books coming) will probably expand her narrative abilities and lessen her  tendency toward force-feeding the shock elements.  But here is a debut  novel of rare inventiveness and vitality, well told.	2000-03-26
2584178:US	52496677	R2879KPWRNWKB2	0679447830	322992187	City of God: A Novel	Books	4	78	85	N	Y	A laborious route to a magnificent ending	I waited until I finished reading Doctorow's &quot;City ofGod&quot; before reading any reviews of this book - not sure why Imade that choice but once made I was thankful I had.  If you're looking for his usual mix of historical fact with fascinating fiction, don't try this work.  Work?  Yes, that is exactly what this book is. And after wading through alot of pages that begged editing, I started over.  City of God takes us back to college days, when we wandered from Philosophy to Religion to History to Psychology to Physics and to Biology classes.  None of it pulls together until all the courses are finished THEN the magnificence of Doctorow's mind is appreciated. There is a good novel buried in this book, but the true rewards are found in Doctorow's philosphical excursions.  His exploration of the beginning of the universe, his mingling the various philosophies that address man's condition and his search for meaning in a abusively chaotic cosmos, his paring down the tennants of Jewish and Christian thought - all these are done with enormous skill and read even better when approached a second and third time. Sometimes he is out of his territory - as when he maligns us with the oh-so-corny reinterpretations of banal songs.  But Wow! this man's mind is impressive.  And for those hardy readers who commit to finishing this literary task the retrospective gratification is magnificent!	2000-03-22
2593553:US	52496677	R3MJWGU30B0U00	0823012980	295380760	Dog: A Dog's Life in Art and Literature	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	A Dog's Life as an Artist Bounty!	Another in the series of memorable art books fromWatson-Guptill, &quot;DOG&quot; follows the format of&quot;CAT&quot;, &quot;ZOO&quot;, and in cogent writing, excerpts ofpoetry and literature, all to tie together an exploration of how we have viewed dogs through the eyes of artists over the past several hundred years.  Etruscan sculpture from 500 BC is placed beside photographs by Muybridge, medieval tapestries, paintings ranging from Bruegel, Bosch, Durer, to David Hockney, Miguel Conde, and other fresh contemporary young painters.  Author Iain Zaczek has a scholarly but endearing writing style that allows this litle book to sing.  For the legions of dog owners this is a sensitive celebration.  As a means to introduce children (of all ages!) to fine art, this is a valuable tome.  END	2000-03-15
2601411:US	52496677	R2L233WW46J1ZG	0814719198	715884405	Times Square Red, Times Square Blue (Sexual Cultures)	Books	5	31	33	N	Y	Prelude and fugue	Samuel Delaney has done the near imposible - he has written a book that is both titillating and informing.  Dividing his cogent 21st Century social philosophy into two parts is at first disconcerting: Why are we reading  (buying) a book that lets us in on the gossip of firsthand observation of  Times Square New York, then in a page turn becomes a sophisticated academic  treatise on our current social problems, in the City, and in a Country?  Once past this mirage of a hurdle Delaney makes it patently clear why he  chose this format.  If we are introduced to a problem in a seductive  manner, we pay closer attention to the bigger issues.  This superb little  book is illuminating in its exploration of where we are in our  interpersonal relationships, our interplay with those around us (street,  neighborhood, city, country), and our current drive to homogenize our  world.  Beautifully written, immensely readable, and a very important  contribution to our social perceptions!	2000-03-10
2605942:US	52496677	R119PWXNQYBAA9	1565120752	544518636	Winter Birds	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	And so it began........	Having just read &quot;Comfort &amp; Joy&quot; and finding it a highly successful novel, I took fellow reviewers' suggestion and traced this author's literary progress by reading his initial novel, &quot;Winter  Birds&quot;. An incredible journey!  Not only is his first novel enormously  engrossing (like the fascination of watching an autopsy), learning the  narrator's (Danny Crell) history supplements his further life voyage in  &quot;Comfort...&quot;.  After being absorbed in Winter Birds for one  evening, my immediate response was to re-read &quot;Comfort &amp; Joy&quot;  with a better knowledge of the polarity of that last book's main  characters.  Grimsley is a gifted writer, and knowing that his first  successes were in playwriting is no surprise. &quot;Winter Birds&quot; is  an intense, credible study of the type of  dysfuntional family that we'd  all rather not believe exists.  But by writing this book I think Grimsley  sensitizes us to look beyond the adult RE-actions of troubled people to  find how incredible it is that many of these injured and abused people made  it into adult life.  Powerful, thought provoking writing.	2000-03-07
2609242:US	52496677	RV8UM1WM3Q9SG	156512250X	634439244	Comfort and Joy	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	A solid Story: A more Afterburn	Jim Grimsley's &quot;Comfort &amp; Joy&quot; is a deceptive little piece.  The story explores interpersonal relationships but it also has a lot to say about where we stand in the year 2000 with our country's level of maturity  when dealing with variations from the &quot;norm&quot;.  The well  constructed meeting, courtship, dating, mating, and sharing the newly  formed couple unit with both families of Dan and Ford goes far beyond the  problems usually asociated with same sex marriage.  And the problems  encountered in this voyage are not solely external traumas: gay homophobia  ( as in closeted people), self perceptions, dealing with disease that just  happens to include HIV, the work place and personal life boundaries.  Grimsley draws likeable chaps and then introduces lineage and tradition of  family, both derived from wealth and privilege and from poverty and trauma.  His ability to maintain a flowing tale  -  describing memorable places  (few have made a trailer-park home inside a cemetary seem more real and  ultimately more inviting), sharing real circumstances of hospital based  life, giving us the scent of the South  - displays a novelist who is  gifted,  and he manages to be succinct enough that our attention never  falters. The Afterburn?  Putting this easy read aside upon completion we  feel sensitized to our own vulnerability in dealing with a world not always  friendly.  Can we make it better.....?	2000-03-04
2616844:US	52496677	R3RTWTNQXBF8A	3791313835	131175286	Egon Schiele: Eros and Passion (Pegasus Library)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	On the beginnings of the id in art	As we continue to toil through terrors remembered from the last century, up pops this little tome that quite successfully takes us back to the early years of the last century when psychology and the study  of the dark side  of our minds exerted its now immutable influence on all of history.  In  this scholarly but immensely entertaining dissection of the seeds within  Egon Schiele's mind that produced a prodigious, fascinating body of  figurative painting in a short life time, author Schroder investigates  sexuality, mores, mental hospitals and those who captured the inmates on  film, photography, and the crumbling of empires.  Lavishly illustrated with  not only many relatively unknown Schiele works but also with works by  Gertsl, Klimt, Degas, Courbet and scientific photographs of the twisted  minds and bodies caged in sanitariums, this book reads well and allows us  to absorb just how significant Schiele was in opening 20th century art to  new levels of exploration.  This is a fine addition to libraries of  artists, students, collectors, physicians, psychologists...and anyone who  enjoys visiting the fin de sicle - asurring us that what seems crude today  was seen, perhaps more naievly, a whole century ago!	2000-02-27
2625354:US	52496677	R21EFTZWBOJKF6	0375406182	963629300	Plainsong	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An eloquent yet simple taste of Americana	Kent Haruf has created a book that is closely aligned to the works of our country's icons Edward Hopper, Aaron Copeland, and Robert Frost: spare, lean distillations of place and person that become quintessentially  American.<br />  By confining his attention to a very small town in the  middle of this vast country and isolating characters who, individually,  represent our foibles and attributes but who interconnect by fate and by  need, Haruf has given us a tool as manageable as one of those glass balls  that when inverted swirl artificial snow on imaginary scenes - mesmerizing,  wholly absorbing our atttention.  With a writing style that excludes  quotation marks, long sentences, and wordy diatribes, he crisply draws  identifiable simple people from birth - the newborn infant through  wide-eyed children, confused adolescents, deserted middle-aged loners, the  elderly - to death. &quot;Plainsong&quot; is a clear, unfettered story, one  that gives the reader a warm sense of understanding the purpose of the  cycle of life.<br />If you can put this novel down before finishing the last  page in one sitting, you've a strong will!	2000-02-21
2629751:US	52496677	R2KX8W3ZYKISG4	0446525537	721431789	A Walk to Remember	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Sweeps you away in spite of yourself	I don't like feeling manipulated. Shallow emotions are trite.  Formulas in any form of the arts put fences around responses and feelings. And having protested that much in the opening pages of this little book I sought to  prove my point by dissecting what was promising to be a corny tear-jerker  for mass consumption.  Wrong!<br />&quot;A Walk to Remember&quot; is .....  special.  This is a simple story that for all it's predictable twists and  turns keeps you so involved with the characters that I would be surprised  if anyone could put it down before finishing it.  A love story of the  1950's between polar personalities that progresses toward the oneness that  real love achieves, this little fable takes on all the universal churnings  of adolesence and in the simplest means offers answers to many of the Big  Questions of philosophy.  Landon and Jamie are sojourners through the  mysteries of courtship and romance, but drawn in so terse a way that the  resolutions to their own questions come first from the heart - of the  reader.  I think even the most hardened reader, if allowed soulful honesty  instead of the pessimism with which we tend to conduct our way through this  century, will find tears in the eyes and that constricted throat that means  we are emotonally alive during the closing pages of this little treasure.  Sure it is &quot;corny&quot;....if feelings, vulnerability, and simplicity  are corny.  I think we all need to read books like this with some  regularity; it makes some sense of our past, our present, and a liitle  light at the end of the tunnel.	2000-02-18
2631965:US	52496677	RVTNYAVC5YWM4	0802116507	477151997	The Coming of the Night	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A masterful whirlwind day in Los Angeles	That John Rechy can tell stories is a given: he is on most lists of important writers of the last century.  In his genre of the darker side of gay life he is a master, and his latest novel proves his credentials.<br />Los  Angeles in the 1980's, a city of novelty, raw emotion, desire, natural  wildness as in the Santa Ana winds has rarely been so graphically  presented.  In the span of one day (and night) we encounter wholly  believable characters - because we've known some of their prototypes -  woven into the fabric of desire in a way that encourages a rapid-run,  read-to-the-finish to try to keep up with the drive toward the climax.  Once finished with the book the reader is left with the desire to start it  all over again, to appreciate the interplay of the shrewdly drawn principal  actors in this play.  Writing like this comes only after years of working  with subject.  John Rechy gives us a wild, windy, exhilarating ride!	2000-02-16
2632581:US	52496677	R3KM8GYN8EBN02	0151002290	736668502	East of the Mountains	Books	5	48	49	N	N	An elegy for facing our mortality	Like so many others, I bought this novel because of my captivation with &quot;Snow Falling On Cedars&quot;, but delayed reading it when the air became filled with negative responses.  There is a lesson here: if you  relate to an author's way with a story, stay with him.  Ben Givens, while  a carefully drawn character in this novel, is really the creature that  represents the spectre of mortality.  By gradually letting us get to know  this crusty old retired surgeon, revealing the pain of his loneliness, the  agonies of his youthful experiences in war, his growing into the choice of  Medicine, his lingering regrets for the tragedies of life that haunt him  and make him choose to terminate his own cancer ridden body rather than  burden his family with his dying...all these elements the author merges  into a hero of compassionate understated nature.  Guterson can describe a  countryside, natural and unnatural vistas, draw passing characters with  such clarity that we hate to see them depart at a chapter's end.  But  finish this book in an evening or two and you are rewarded with an  understanding of why we exist on a planet populated with our own brethren.<br />After starting to read this book I thought about not finishing it:  it  didn't have near the atmosphere or universality of &quot;Snow..&quot;.  But  thankfully I trusted the author and I grew into his far more personal  journey. There is much food for pondering in this tender book.	2000-02-16
2641188:US	52496677	R2ZD1421KMXBVM	0879519142	202936797	The Peculiar Memories of Thomas Penman	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	A raucous yet tender romp	The Peculiar Memories of Thomas Penman may be peculiar to those who have forgotten that bizarre landscape of wide-eyed, hormone-driven adolesence through which we all passed, but to this reader the rites of passage facing  the 14 year old have rarely been so candidly captured.  Thomas Penman has  strange behaviors, but as his creator Robinson relates them, they all serve  as seeds to explain with great wit and empathy the results of Thomas'  coming of age.  This is a wonderful little book that reads rapidly (as in  difficult to put it down), entertains us with outrageous situations, then  ties a series of clues to the Everyman question of Who Am I and How Did I  Get Here? into a deeply touching finale.  These characters are unforgetable  - everyone of them from the main character, his best friend Maurice, the  Vicar Potts, the psychic Olanda, the radiantly drawn Gwendolin, and of  course Walter his Grandfather.  A wonderful excursion and addition to the  READ THIS List for teenagers. Suggestion: Don't let the language in the  first chapter throw you off course: it is there for a reason!	2000-02-09
2642258:US	52496677	R2P1RUMKUZ1YAJ	3822802964	564546685	Still Life: Still Life Painting in the Early Modern Period	Books	5	30	31	N	N	A Luxuriant Pandora's Box!	For passionate art collectors, for students of all stages, and for art book afficianados this new volume of Still Life is about as fine as they come.  The author introduces us into this historically significant genre in  a way that encourages us to actually READ the book rather than the too  frequent tendency to browse through the pictures alone.  In presenting some  of the finest examples of 16th, 17th, and 18th century paintings he opens  our eyes to the symbolism, allegories, spiritual icons, and social history  that lies heretofore hiddden within the complex and elegant depictions of  fruit, flowers, game, weapons - scenes in and out of the home.  But more  important to the service of arts education, Schneider lays the groundwork  for looking at  subsequent versions of still life, especially the current  resurgence of the genre in today's artists.  Beautifully illustrated and  scholarly presented, this new volume belongs in libraries of Art Academies  and homes alike.  A generous introduction to a endlessly fascinating  medium.	2000-02-08
2645841:US	52496677	R3PXZ9YVI5YJAP	0823005712	50640673	Cat: Wild Cats	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The importance of being feline	CAT: Wild Cats and Pampered Pets is another art book in a series prepared by the inventive Ivy Press in England that takes a seemingly simple subject to further enhance our knowledge about the visual arts.  What cat lover  could pass this little celebratory tome by?  Using images of cats - from  every form of our current concept of house pet to the most obtuse precursor  and wild counterpart - this book provides paintings, drawings, sculptures  of cats that juxtapose famous historical depictions by Klimt, Rubens,  Fragonard, Bosch, Rembrandt along side works by contemporary artists both  famous and emerging.  CAT is not only a charming homage to a favorite  creature but also a joyful introduction to art history and contemporary  representational paintings of the highest order.<br />A coffee table book?  Yes...it richly enhances the decor of your living space.  But it is also  small enough in format to tuck away for those idle hours away from home.  This beautiful, thoughtful, informative little tome is a perfect gift for  art lovers .... and young people who you'd like to become art appreciators!	2000-02-06
2657011:US	52496677	R1XVABNXOLGMTK	0060195436	207910478	In Siberia	Books	5	69	71	N	Y	A mesmerizing, gripping book	Russia metamorphosed in the 20th century assuming and shedding identities as often as it did heads of state.  Finding an examination of the history of these events that maintains some semblance of neutrality and pure  observation seemed unlikely - until now.  IN SIBERIA is a rare combination  study of geography, economics, political science, sociology, and history in  a format of conversations with the people who live there.  Author Thubron  is a modern day Richard Halliburton (remember him?), a man brave enough to  singly explore the vastness of Siberia in search of the identity of its  people.  What he gives us is a lushly detailed panorama of physical  grandeur and a near clinical insight into the psyches of the people he  meets along his journey.  His characters are so well reported that they  seem to inhabit a fine fiction/history novel.  But the sweep of his  conversations with these time worn people is so honestly presented that the  reader feels privy to shrouded secrets of the past and intimations of the  future of a much maligned and misunderstood country.<br />Thubron seems intent  on finding the sustaining spirit of his acquaintances; we encounter myriad  variations of Russian Orthodox /Buddhist/atheist religion. We hear personal  accounts of the labor camps of Stalin and Kruschchev that surpass even  Solzhenisyn's descriptions.  But more important we are introduced to the  ordinary people of this vast country and Thubron shares these characters  with insight and intelligent reportage that makes us feel as though we  journeyed with him.<br />And this is supposed to be a Travel Book?  I think  not. This is a volume of first-hand information that leaves the reader  enriched and empathetic.......an enormously fine read!	2000-01-29
2672925:US	52496677	R2C7P945SXHLIA	0316569321	613460974	White Oleander	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Well crafted Pulp Fiction	We see it on television, the movies, the newsmedia, and the tabloids...now we have another forced feeding account of the Bad parent/Bruised child in the form of a novel.  Fitch writes well and draws characters realistically.  It is a shame such talent is squandered on a soap opera story.  How many  more of these &quot;down and out deserted kids&quot; tales will be written?  A depressing read without redemption, BUT this author has the skills down  well.	2000-01-18
2676859:US	52496677	R7CUUZCRUKSXH	0060193557	332983313	Eddie's Bastard: A Novel	Books	5	28	30	N	N	The universal search for identity	It is difficult to believe this is a first novel. That William Kowalski is a gifted novelist is simply a given.  He is a fine story teller, able to  weave threads of pulsing narrative toward a nourishing conclusion.  He  creates characters who are not only credible but about whom we care.  Too  many descriptive phrases might get in the way to the individual response to  this rich novel.... Suffice it to say that the title EDDIE'S BASTARD is  more than a label.  A Bastard is one without parents and therefore without  knowledge of history - genetic, philosophical, time sequence.  This  beautifully crafted book reveals the detective work involved in the main  character's quest for self discovery.  His journey is at once interesting,  touching, warm, and curative.  As he reads excerpts from his great  grandfather's diary - sophisticated, elegant prose set off in italics which  if separated from the novel would still provide a cogent guide to knowing  ourselves through understanding our history - Eddie gains insight into his  place in the world, his questions about his responses to that world, and  eventually an understanding about where he fits in in a world that has  seemed alien.<br />Read this novel - for entertainment, for fresh words, for  disarmingly beautiful story, and for restoration in the faith that we are a  meaningful part of what was and, therefore, what will be.	2000-01-15
2683779:US	52496677	RERO24E2J6CHB	023111608X	899235643	Notes of a Desolate Man	Books	5	17	20	N	Y	Moments with a kaleidoscope	Warning: Do not attempt to consume this little novel in a short period of time!  Contrary to the small physical size of this book this is not a brief story.  Rather, it is a wondrous little tome that blends Eastern vantage and culture with Western philosophy and becomes a multifacted gem  reflecting on life, death, love, passion, and sex. I am reminded of my  wonder that MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA was written by a man, so much of the  feminine mysticism permeated every page.  This story is so convincingly  related by a gay man who is in conflict with his Taiwan society, Chinese  heritage, his views of homosexual life and love, that the reader is  repeatedly taken by surprise that such personal, male perceptions are being  written by a woman; the book FEELS as though it is a first person male  narration.  A Theme and Variations on the contemporary struggle to find  meaning, this author amazes in the sensitive explorations of Levi Strauss,  Michel Foucault, as well as excursions in to the arts, the skill and pain  of Nijinsky's life, Bach's music , Greek mythology - an almost endless  stream of consciousness of universal themes.  And yet the characters remain  well drawn, credible, sympathetic.  I found that when the words started to  wander away from me, losing linear direction of narration, I had to re-read  some parts before diving back in to the flood of the incredible wealth of  ideas being offered.  I am not able to read the original Chinese, but if  these two translators have the author's blessing we are in the presence of  a unique, valuable voice. Reward yourself with this challenging book.  You  will be the richer for it.	2000-01-11
2692175:US	52496677	R1HY9H0QZU9GAK	0374280657	515834350	The Male Body: A New Look at Men in Public and Private	Books	2	21	38	N	N	A dreary trudge through personal agendas	Susan Bordo obviously knows how to write well; she also demonstrates a respect for research.  Perhaps expecting more illuminating philosophy from these givens makes this endless tome all the more disappointing.  Bordo  seduces our attention with a few sentences at the beginning of each  chapter, only to fizzle out with dreary recountings of her own experiences  with the Male Body. While she has a few good moments in defining the  spectrum of male/female role-play, this overworked dissertation is a  difficult book to complete.  And it is hard to make this topic boring.....	2000-01-05
2697219:US	52496677	R2NORI3F7PTZ7R	060960516X	195842000	Enchanted Night: A Novella	Books	5	9	13	N	Y	We are such stuff as dreams are made on....	Summoning the surreal white light of the past winter solstice moon, and having experienced the page turn of the century in Paris, Moscow, London New York - each like fast forwards and flashbacks to the viewing eye as the  day rolled toward the Pacific ending - I found I had saved Steven  Millhauser's ENCHANTED NIGHT for an eerily timed moment to savour.  If ever  there were a collection of images to share at such a promising time this  little novella is it.  Millhauser has deposited tiny thoughts like  interrupted dreams that are so special that momentary awakening only pleads  for us to return to the dreams.  With an uncanny ecomony of words, a  plethora of evocative  observations, and a page-turning style of staccato  images, he provides just enough literary seduction to allow the reader to  fold close the book after a scant 100 odd pages, darken the lamp,  and  luxuriate in our own moonlight the myriad trails toward conclusions that  our own dreams complete.  And in Milhauser's far better words....O you who  wait: this is the night of the opening of the heart.<br />This is an extended  poem, a brief novella, a parcel of dreamdust to repeatedly read, at night,  alone. Or better - to share with another child of the evening.	2000-01-02
2699288:US	52496677	R4UYXJ83Q7EXK	1885983409	256170784	Lawnboy	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Entertaining/disturbing view of interpersonal relationships	Paul Lisicky's Lawnboy is an engrossing excursion that steadily drives through the shallow interpersonal relationships that haunt us at the end of a disillusioning century to the endpoint of introspection.  Though  enormously sucessful as a storyteller, it is this clinical examination of  what has happened to us as individiuals searching for acceptance, for love,  for some organization of the chaotic emotional world in which we find  ourselves that the author makes this novel so successful.  Lisicky's  characters are well drawn, and if they seem a bit out of focus when it  comes to their cravings and drives, their encounters sexual and otherwise,  then it  is to his credit that he can so deftly focus on the fears and  weaknesses we all harbour.  That the characters include gay men/boys is  only incidental; there are no stereotypes. Lisicky has managed to paint a  visual and cerebral landscape of Florida as a metaphor of how we have  misguidedly &quot;improved&quot; a natural landscape much the same as we  whittle away at our lives.  There are no absolutes here, only glimpses of  things gone awry.  This is a clarion call for reaccessing the way we take  care of each other on this lonely planet.....and this is a VERY fine first  novel!	1999-12-31
2709971:US	52496677	R2YJHICRBQOVAM	052594513X	241282354	Gods Go Begging	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	The most cogent summation of the  Vietnam Mistake	Great literature finds the central synapse of an event, real or imagined, and releases pulsatile barages of words that touch off awakening responses in all of us.  The end result is the discovery of a million personal novels  in emotionally vulnerable and receptive minds.  Alfredo Vea has managed to  eloquently distill all the terror, insanity, unspeakable inhumanity that  was the Vietnam Conflict and find a story that intertwines all aspects of  that grotesque error in history in a way that allows us to address and,  yes, even begin to understand the daily violence of contemporary living  that fuzzes by incompresibly on television, newspapers, movies, rap  music....hidden and denied internalized wounds of life at the end of a  brutal century. &quot;Gods Go Begging&quot; is a monumental feat that to  this reader's mind ranks with Wilfred Owen, Auden, Spender, Tim O'Brien as  a timeless, universally important antiwar voice.  An ingeniously interwoven  story that never strays from the top, Vea's novel manages to swirl us into  time zones, flights of surrealism, philosophical meanderings that only  serve to hit us like a bullet on the next page. This is a book of such  importance that it should be read by everyone even remotely touched by  War... and in truth, that is everyman.  A brilliant contribution to the  significant literature of this closing century.	1999-12-22
2720282:US	52496677	R2CT895RKPYYB3	0375400958	76660059	The Elusive Embrace: Desire and the Riddle of Identity	Books	5	4	15	N	Y	Welcome Daniel Mendelsohn!	&quot;The Elusive Embrace&quot; is a promising first novel that hopefully heralds a new standard of writing that will open the 21st Century.  Daniel Mendelsohn is an able storyteller, a writer's writer, and has the ingenuity  and good graces to pull us up to a new level of intellectual investigation.  That this is a first novel is a staggering fact that bodes well for us as  we slip out of 1999 and enter a new millennium.<br />Mendelsohn has written an  engrossing journal of discovery of his identity. In doing so he sets the  stage for each new door by referecing Greek and Roman literature, giving us  a matrix of universality and timelessness that encourages the reader to  explore his own past and present.  Rarely have the classic myths been so  clearly and succinctly capsulized; in a few short paragraphs Mendelsohn can  elucidate epic poems and plays and in doing so teaches us while he  entertains us.<br />This writer's life is alone interesting enough to be a  novel - the myths and colored rememberances of a family new to America  since the turn of the century as seen through the eyes of fascinating and  real family members, mementos, letters, and documents.  That he is so  tender about his own life experiences superimposed/evolved from this  history makes us want to accompany him to his ultimate discovery.  And even  better, the scholarship coupled with the rich story is an invitation to us  to re-evaluate our own identity . What better way to start a new century?  I eagerly await the next experience from Daniel Mendelsohn's complex and  intriguing mind.  Bravo!	1999-12-14
2721093:US	52496677	R145WPZATYVU85	1558851089	494332743	Happy Birthday Jesus	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A novel with staying power	&quot;Happy Birthday, Jesus&quot; by Ronald Ruiz is a stunning first novel.  I read it in 1994 when it was first released and was so deeply moved by Ruiz' power of writing a story with such difficult characters (and  for me succeeding on every level) that I found myself touting this little  book to all of my friends, giving it as gifts for birthdays and holidays,  and fully expecting there to be many more solid novels from this talented  new writer.  I have re-read the book in the intervening years and continue  to be impressed.  When I was recently asked to compose a list of books to  encourage a budding novelist I first remembered &quot;Happy Birthday,  Jesus&quot; - and included it with &quot;Beach Boy&quot;, &quot;The God of  Small Things&quot;, &quot;Snow Falling on Cedars&quot;, &quot;Cold  Mountain&quot;, and &quot;The Fan-Makers Inquisition&quot; - adding  &quot;Blindness&quot;, &quot;The Reader&quot;, and sundry other books that  for me capture the readers imagination and make an indelible imprint.  This  book deserves more attention; I wonder what has happened to this author....	1999-12-14
2726749:US	52496677	RPWPG825AQOUA	0805059261	398757305	The Fan-Maker's Inquisition	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	An Escapist's Time Capsule	Rikki Ducornet's luscious little novel, subtitled &quot;A Novel of the Marquis de Sade&quot;, invites us to pause, clear our preconceptions, open our minds, and go on a fantasy journey back in history to the time of the  French Revolution.  The Fan-Maker of the title, a close ally to the Marquis  de Sade who is imprisoned for his many &quot;crimes against society, the  Church, morals, sexuality, etc ad infinitum&quot;, is herself on trial for  complicity in aiding Sade in writing his last novel.  Through the  question/answer of the Inquisition format we are allowed to hear and read  the words of Sade and, in this setting, catch a glimpse at how history has  perhaps cloaked a wholly Dionysian character in an injurious criminal  jacket.  Being a novel, Ducornet has poetic license to retell Sade's  behavioral quirks as interpreted by a sensual and erudite Gabrielle whose  occupation is to make fans depicting graphic sexual fantasies.  For some,  this approach to the point of the book may be off putting. For the reader  fortunate enough to linger over this very small book the rewards are a  revised look at an important period of time, told in a manner that brings  us all the atmosphere, smells, idiosyncrasies, elegance, and grit of a  Paris under the ever-present blade of the guillotine. This is a treasure of  a novel and Ducornet has created an utterly unique mode of storytelling. To  quote her in the words of her character &quot;What are books but tangible  dreams? What is reading if not dreaming? The best books cause us to dream;  the rest are not worth reading.&quot;  And this book  is most defintiely a  dream.  A grand and erudite escape!	1999-12-09
2732715:US	52496677	R22LRAYW4Q4HHX	0684848783	223960215	'Tis: A Memoir	Books	4	34	42	N	Y	A Natural Progression	Those of us who grew to cherish the irresitible McCourt children of &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; waded through Malachy's memoirs until we could take up the Limerick jigs in brother Frank's sequel.  Well here 'tis and  though many readers have been dissappointed in the struggles in America,  struggles so related to the prior Irish version of world view, I find the  growing pains of the &quot;re-patriated Frank&quot;  endearing.  The view  of the self as secretively fraudulent is not new, but rarely has the payche  of the American Dream been so personally defined.  We all are foreigners to  this land, whether in our generation or ones past, and following Frank  McCourt's voyage from being &quot;uneducated&quot; to becoming a warm and  caring Teacher brings many moments of tender relating.<br />Although the  significant charm of &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; was McCourt's uncanny  ability to maintain the child's point of view, means of thinking, modes of  expression that made his book so touching, &quot;Tis&quot; fleshes out all  the characters seeded in that memoir and allows the passage of time and  maturity of the original voice to win us over at last.  Is it a perfect  book?  No.  Is it worth your reading? 'Tis.	1999-12-05
2734478:US	52496677	R19PCJKOGNRMCO	1891305069	79595693	Besame Mucho: New Gay Latino Fiction	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	An enticing Dance Card!	This anthology of short stories is both satisfying and frustrating - satisfying in the varietal range of writers, frustrating in that there isn't more to read!  There are common threads that editors Manrique and  Dorris have discovered and those threads are woven into  sometimes  gaudy/garrish flags and at other times into tender/vulnerable mantillas.  The flavors are quintessentially Latin and if some of the stories are more  tenuous in content and form, this only serves to evidence the valor of a  history of suppressed sexuality each author addresses.  Some of the works  are mature, elegantly written vignettes and the editors are kind to give us  past and future works for further investigation. Others show many degrees  of promise. In all, this is a collection to be savoured...and a terrific  appetizer!	1999-12-04
2745381:US	52496677	R1LPFOM0WRVPV1	0299161803	289113911	Eminent Maricones: Arenas, Lorca, Puig, and Me (Living Out: Gay and Lesbian Autobiog)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A deceptively simple, tender  set of diary excerpts	Emminent Maricones is a treasure.  It is rare that a writer of Manrique's skill takes the time to lovingly explore the very human side of the lives and literary contributions of fellow writers.  This is not a an irreverant  comparison of whether or not Puig, Lorca, and Arenas were able to write  well BECAUSE they were gay but how perhaps their perception and world view  was more acute because of their sexuality.  I found it irresistable and  read through this little jewel of a book twice in one sitting, the next  logical step being to return to the recommended books Manrique thoughtfully  suggests!	1999-11-26
2751748:US	52496677	ROYK2RQI27T8R	0670883565	555286470	The Spell	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Hollinghurst continues to cast  Spells	Unlike some reviewers of Alan Hollinghurst's  The Spell who apparently prefer to rush to climax, I basked in the sheer pleasure of the author's command of the English language and ability to create kaleidoscopic,  mesmerizing puzzles of the fabric of relationships.  This short novel can  be enjoyed on multiple levels - elegant prose describing England, a biting  view of gay life in the 1990's at times acerbic and at times nostalgic, a  guide to unravelling the intricacies of the webs we weave that define our  public from our private selves.  But with the last page closing we are left  with the reassurance the savory prose is still being created...and eagerly  await the author's next journey.	1999-11-20
2780469:US	52496677	R1HMNO36P9H1V4	0823047849	411983577	Sex: Portraits of Passion	Books	5	43	52	N	Y	Another delight for Art Lovers	SEX: Portraits of Passion may entice novice fine art book buyers and maybe even curious voyeurs, and that will add to the audience for this thoughtful overview of figurative art throughout the centuries.  Perhaps the title and  chapter content of the written word will afford a bridge for readers who  may not be art lovers, but these days such introductions are always welcome  to build appreciation for art history and contemporary art.  Generously and  beautifully illustrated with paintings, sculpture and photography this  little tome is a banquet for discovering new artists among the Old Masters.  In the wake of the Brooklyn Museum press, this rich survey enjoys itself,  provides beauty, and teases our senses in a way that is healthy, fun, and  informative.  A natural gift for friends and lovers!	1999-10-02
2784681:US	52496677	RCE4GKZYLW6GI	0060193654	146235403	One of the Guys	Books	4	2	7	N	Y	A promising first novel and a very good read	&quot;One of the Guys&quot; provides us with hints and promises that we have a fine novelist in the making.  As a reverse take on &quot;The Rake's Progress&quot;  Young weaves a tale of self acceptance written during a  time when such discussions are generally relegated to psychologist's  offices or manic TV talk shows.  Given the character Miles at the onset of  this sprawling journey portrayed as someone who could easily be the chief  player in a comedy of errors (and a rather unsympathetic one at that),  Young manages to build his story well, pacing the episodes that remain  related until the book's end.  We end up caring for this self-made misfit  in a way which leaves us with intospection as the last pages close.  Some  of the &quot;authenticity of time and place and language&quot;  occassionally get tedious and suggest that the words were assembled for  shock value. How many expletives and military acronyms do we need to  &quot;get it&quot;?  The character development is sound, and although the  ending reels abit like a Hollywood movie, that may be intentional.  This  little novel should be considered for a run on the screen!  In all, an  enjoyable and well constructed tale of an antihero earning his wings. I  look forward to this intelligent author's next book.	1999-09-25
2962419:US	52496677	R2Z8GI40PD75WZ	0679442790	153296191	The Reader	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A simple story becomes a contemporary fable	For those of us who still grapple with the unfathomable question of the extent of man's inhumanity to man - whether that be past and/or present wars, hate crimes, racism, bigotry - this small novel is a stunning  experience.  Schlink has created at least two unforgetable characters in  his tale of the coming of age of Michael Berg with an experienced woman of  more years.  How he evolves a beautifully honed description of sexual  awakening into the nightmare of realization and then leads us to an  understanding of all aspects of life civilized and uncivilized is a miracle  of writing.  A short tale, but one that lives on in the conscience long  after the book's covers are closed.  This is a genuinely brilliant novel.  Share it with those meaningful to you.	1998-11-20
2962742:US	52496677	R2TM29W12NMZBY	0810939452	479989906	Vietnam Reflexes and Reflections	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A visually and emotionally stunning experience	Vietnam - the war we would all rather forget and bury, so painful are the memories and wounds it engendered on America and on Asia - is at last viewed from the standpoint of artists who lived it.  This visually  magnificent collection of works of art made by Vietnam Veterans, both while  they were in Vietnam and in the tortured years subsequent to their return  as &quot;non-heroes&quot;, not only introduces for the first time another  form of documentation about the Vietnam Experience.  It provides a  touchstone as powerful as the Vietnam War Memorial Wall in Washington DC  where surviving veterans and the families and loved ones of veterans can  begin to understand what happened there.  VIETNAM: REFLEXES AND REFLECTIONS  is at once a catalogue of the artists  (some 95 men/women, US/Vietnamese )  represented in the National Vietnam Veterans Art Museum in Chicago, IL;  with the tender forward by Director Sondra Varco and insightful essays on  art and war through history and art in the Vietnam setting, this book  becomes the standard for scholarly studies about a particularly painful  time and the body of art it produced.  This book should be required reading  for all Americans: the art contained in it touches us all.	1998-11-19
2966235:US	52496677	RBRQDHJ1VPHCU	0151002517	787923440	Blindness	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	A searing, mesmerizing journey of how we function together	&quot;Blindness&quot; by Jose Saramago does what few novels accomplish - delivers a monumnetally soul searching journey for 20th century man in an eloquent literary style.  It is rare for a first chapter to provide an  overture so succinct, suggesting the seeds of everything that is to follow,  introduce a subtle and difficult writing style to tell a bizarre story, and  still capture the reader's attention so securely that makes us feel as  though we are on a locomotive ride to an inexorable end.  Without names for  his characters, and given that all but one character is blind, Saramago  crafts a parable so vividly that while reading we suspend all contact with  reality: his white-blind world is our world.  This is great writing from a  man who not only is a miraculous wordsmith but an infectious tale teller. A  stunning achievement!	1998-11-11
2973980:US	52496677	R2BTY88RXPTU2C	0684852993	893214399	Beach Boy: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	As obligatory a book as Salinger and Joyce	Beach Boy bounds onto the literary world like a mature novel, nudging a  place somewhere between Jame Joyce's &quot;Portrait of the Artist as a  Young Man&quot; and J.D. Salinger's &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot;.  Quirky, unique in writing style, extemporaneous in feel, this first novel  has all  we wish for in a new generation of story tellers.  Tender,  humorous, sad, poignant - Ardashir Vakil  has created another Everyman, and  one hopes he has more to say about this delectable Cyrus Readymoney.  Using  another language unfamiliar to his readers only enhances the atmosphere of  Bombay. I found myself so hungry for everything Indian that a trip to a  local Indian restaurant was the only successful seduction  away from  absorbing this little gem of a novel.  Parent Alert!  Share this with your  teenagers.  This is a wondrous way to open the doors of the world outside.	1998-10-25
2974065:US	52496677	RX1VI8GV6PB3I	0847821250	570119152	Adam: The Male Figure in Art	Books	5	27	31	N	Y	A thoroughly refreshing entry into art history	Adam; The Male Figure in Art by Edward Lucie-Smith sets out to explore how  artists have perceived and represented man as a subject in every form of  the arts.  With his characteristic enthusiasm and wit Lucie-Smith offers  enough treasures of painting, sculpture, photography, murals from Egypt and  Rome and Greece to satisfy even the most avid art historian.  It is a  pleasure to discover young contemporary artists along side the ancients and  the grand masters.  This is a potpouri, a delectable, energetic voyage that  begs frequent return visits.  A must from the current coffee table art book  selection for the holidays!	1998-10-25
2974123:US	52496677	R1E82JNGLZ0Y31	0823059812	237467767	Zoo: Animals in Art	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A  magical bestiary tour for art lovers	Zoo is a small-in-size book, but it is brimming over with clever  juxtapositions of styles, periods, techniques of making art about animals.  We are again indebted to Lucie-Smith for spicing this beautifully designed,  written and illustrated treatise with works by contemporary artists who are  perhaps not yet known to the world at large in the company of their famous  colleagues.  How often are we allowed to discover new images as we leaf  through pages of old favorites from the masters, from antiquity, from  established 20th Century artists? The unifying element is in the chapter  divisions; each chapter studies  a different animal group. This little gem  is a perfect book for art afficiandos who think they've seen it all, as  well as for animal lovers and scholars, and people who simply love fine art  admixed with erudite writing.	1998-10-25
2978601:US	52496677	RF6Q3QC7U9R4Y	0811213781	895075982	The Rings of Saturn	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Another intoxicating, idiosycratic masterpiece	Having read &quot;The Emigrants&quot; and being amazed that I had not  heard about this author, so fine and unique was his first  &quot;translated&quot; book, I grabbed the first volume of &quot;The Rings  of Saturn&quot; I could find.  And not only does this latest lyrically sad  yet beautiful little book equal its predessor, it surpasses.  The technique  of including &quot;snapshots&quot; in this quasihistorical meandering  enhances the illusion that the novel is reportage.  There are sufficient  facts and places to make the sojourn credible; the joy of the work is  unwinding all the cosmic threads that so accurately detail the spirit of  our times.  I can only hope that this poet continues to grace our  literature with like memorable time pieces.  One caution: this is not a  book to leave by th ebedside for multiple nights' readings.  Be prepared to  give him your all until the final page - and in one sitting!	1998-10-15
2984422:US	52496677	R1DVGE98IMLQYI	0684850265	872057611	The Fall Of A Sparrow	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A complex narrative that ventures to engage our intellect .	Robert Hellenga offers us not only a well constructed tale of intrigue as  played out  on a family level, he has obviously spent time with his  characters - developing people who are unique, memorable, understandable in  their motivation, and well strung on his terse and tense rope of story  telling.  In the times in which we find ourselves it is refreshing to  accompany Hellenga on his journey, his characters' self-exploration,  all  the while gracing his pages with allegory and metaphor,  and the glory of  not only the English language but also Greek, Persian, and Italian.  The  minor weaknesses of this book are so thoroughly compensated for by the  sheer joy of his prose.  This is a book to read slowly, think through  quietly, and finish more enlightend about myriad details we skip in our too  rapid daily routine.	1998-09-29
