5683:US	52533596	R6ERGRZFL9J9L	1841767905	757123489	The British Army in the Far East 1941–45 (Battle Orders)	Books	3	21	22	N	N	A Bit of a Disappointment....	When I picked up this volume on the British Army in the Far East in 1941-45 and saw that Alan Jeffreys, a curator at the Imperial War Museum, had written it, I expected a first-class product. Alas, I was a bit disappointed by this volume due to the sparse coverage of the first two years of the war in Asia and the inadequate amount of detail on unit tables of organization and equipment (TOE). While the writing style and information that is presented are decent enough, it seems that the author only wanted to primarily focus on the last year of the war, i.e, the phase that the Commonwealth troops were winning. While one certainly does not expect an encyclopedic coverage in an Osprey title, this volume does not appear to present the type and amount of detail found in other Battle Orders titles (indeed, this seems more like an effort for the campaign series). Even the author's conclusion that the British adoption of a jungle warfare doctrine was a major element in reversing the Commonwealth's fortunes in South Asia seems to ignore the fact that US air and sea operations had virtually isolated the Japanese forces in the Burma-India theater from receiving further reinforcements after mid-1944.<br /><br /> The introductory section of this volume follows the series format, with a brief discussion of the combat mission of British forces in the Far East, which notes that the defense of the naval base at Singapore was the main operational focus. The section on training is lengthy, including noting that the British had one unit in Malaya - the 2nd Battalion Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders -that was fairly well trained in jungle warfare tactics. Unfortunately, the author's overly brief coverage of the Malayan campaign presents only a few tactical snippets of that unit's activities, making it difficult to assess what value this unit had. The section on division organization provides a short history of each British, Australian and Indian division in theater, but only a few of the line and block charts go below division level and none go below brigade level. Unlike other Osprey Battle Order volumes, there are almost no charts listing personnel or equipment holdings, except for one chart that shows artillery holdings across the four different types of Commonwealth divisions. Armored units - beyond a simple table listing numbers of tanks in theater in 1944 - are virtually absent from these pages. Given that Indian and Australian units often had non-standard TOEs, the author should have made greater effort to clarify unit structures - as is expected in this series.<br /><br />  The volume includes eleven 2-D maps: Japanese strategic plans in the Far East; Training sites in Southeast Asia; dispositions of Commonwealth forces in Malaya, December 1941; the Battle of Slim River; Commonwealth dispositions on Singapore; 1st Arakan campaign; the capture of Mandalay; the Japanese offensive at Imphal-Kohima; opening moves at Kohima; the British counterattack at Kohima; the British counteroffensive in June 1944. Unfortunately, the author does not provide anything like a theater order of battle for Commonwealth forces at any particular date, so trying to determine \\"the big picture\\" is futile with this volume. The author does provide a 2-page bibliography and a campaign chronology.<br /><br />  I was really stunned that this volume has virtually no mention of the 11,000 Commonwealth troops (6 battalions) lost at Hong Kong in December 1941 and no mention of the Commonwealth OB in Burma in December 1941. Nor is there any significant mention of British troops who fought in the Dutch East Indies (where I believe several thousand were captured) or China. Even the author's skimpy coverage of the forces available to Percival in Malaya is difficult to follow (must read division thumb-nail sketches). The First Arakan offensive in 1943 is also covered very briefly and the Chindits are almost ignored. It is clear that this author wanted to skirt quickly past this string of disasters and get to Imphal-Kohima, where he can recount the jocks of 2nd British Infantry Division giving the Japanese Army a sound thrashing. The author concludes his campaign narrative with General Slim's boast that his forces had given the Japanese \\"the biggest defeat in their whole history.\\" Given the catastrophic defeats suffered across the board by the Japanese after mid-1942, it seems rather a tad absurd to single out the defeat of only three of their divisions as \\"their greatest defeat ever.\\"<br /><br /> Readers attempting to digest the changes in the Commonwealth forces in the Far East between 1941-45 will find this volume of little help, since so little information is provided on the initial force structure. The author's labored dissection of the evolution of British jungle warfare doctrine, while perhaps illuminating for some readers, seemed tedious and with little point. The Commonwealth forces won at Kohima-Imphal because they had vastly superior firepower and were close to their base of supply, while the Japanese troops were virtually out of supply. Jungle warfare doctrine didn't help the Chindits much - essentially a waste of three infantry brigades - and Slim's victories in '44-45 were due more to combined arms tactics than any \\"jungle tactics.\\" Indeed, it was the ability of Commonwealth (and US C-47s, which the author ignores) logistic troops and engineers to build roads through jungles and over mountains and cross wide rivers that contributed most to victory in Burma.st this string of disasters and get to Imphal-Kohima, where he can recount the jocks of 2nd British Infantry Division giving the Japanese Army a sound thrashing. The author concludes his campaign narrative with General Slim's boast that his forces had given the Japanese \\"the biggest defeat in their whole history.\\" Given the catastrophic defeats suffered across the board by the Japanese after mid-1942, it seems rather a tad absurd to single out the defeat of only three of their divisions as \\"their greatest defeat ever.\\"  <br /> <br /> Readers attempting to digest the changes in the Commonwealth forces in the Far East between 1941-45 will find this volume of little help, since so little information is provided on the initial force structure. The author's labored dissection of the evolution of British jungle warfare doctrine, while perhaps illuminating for some readers, seemed tedious and with little point. The Commonwealth forces won at Kohima-Imphal because they had vastly superior firepower and were close to their base of supply, while the Japanese troops were virtually out of supply. Jungle warfare doctrine didn't help the Chindits much - essentially a waste of three infantry brigades - and Slim's victories in '44-45 were due more to combined arms tactics than any \\"jungle tactics.\\" Indeed, it was the ability of Commonwealth (and US C-47s, which the author ignores) logistic troops and engineers to build roads through jungles and over mountains and cross wide rivers that contributed most to victory in Burma.  <br />	2005-10-11
10850:US	52533596	RP0ZM8XY4Z9UN	1841768928	116158603	Trafalgar 1805: Nelson’s Crowning Victory (Campaign)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	What Does Lady Hamilton have to do with Trafalgar?	Oxford historian Dr. Gregory Fremont-Barnes provides an Anglo-centric but capable interpretation of the British naval victory at Trafalgar in October 1805. Readers interested in a quick summary of the events leading up to the battle and the main actions in the battle will be satisfied with this volumes narrative and maps. The author's writing style is crisp and he is able to keep both maps and text in synch to deliver a coherent summary of the battle. However, the author's over-emphasis on Nelson's personal life detracts from his coverage of the Franco-Spanish participants and his interpretations are far too over-generalized. Over time, the British victory at Trafalgar has morphed into a certain mythology, to which this author adheres.<br /><br /> The author begins with the usual Osprey introductory sections, including campaign background, opposing commanders, forces and plans. To be blunt, these sections are somewhat less than adequate. About 60% of the opposing commanders section is just about Nelson, with just a nod to the other British commanders and their Franco-Spanish opponents. The section on opposing forces is overly-generalized to a fault, with no real specifics on the ships or their weapons; for example, there is no mention that different rates carried different size cannon or that some ship types were more maneuverable than others. The author does repeat the oft-quoted simplification that British ships fired roundshot and that the French fired chain-shot to disable sails. While the French may have preferred anti-rigging tactics in frigate actions, this makes no sense in a general action like Trafalgar where vessels were not as free to independently leave the battle. Furthermore, much of the action at Trafalgar was at close range - does it make any sense to aim at the enemy's rigging when the enemy ship is virtually alongside?<br /><br /> The section on opposing plans and the lead-up to Trafalgar has its ambiguities. Although British historians like to claim that Trafalgar prevented a French invasion of England, this volume - as other larger works do as well - avoids much discussion of actual French plans. Given that Napoleon was already planning major operations in central Europe, there really weren't any uncommitted French forces left to invade England by the time that Trafalgar was fought and the best weather period in the English Channel was already past. Indeed, the Franco-Spanish fleet was essentially aborting the invasion when it left Cadiz, enroute to return to Toulon (a fact that most English historians tend to gloss over). Despite all the coming and going to the West Indies, the Franco-Spanish fleet had accomplished nothing in 1805, other than finding their way back to their homeports.<br /><br />  The author's description of the actual battle of Trafalgar is decent and readers should have no trouble following it, but some of the pre-battle dispositions are vague. For example, why was HMS Africa on its own up by the front of the Allied fleet? There is also a disconnect between the order of battle and the text, which uses different terminology for the same sections of the Allied fleet (which reversed course and position at the start of the battle); for example, the author refers to Admiral Le Pelley's \\"van division\\" but the OB refers to this as the \\"rear squadron.\\" It's confusing. The volume  includes five 2-D Maps (fleet movements before Trafalgar; Calder's Action; opening phase of Trafalgar; situation at the end of the battle; Strachan's action), three 3-D maps (Bellerophon under pressure; situation of leading vessels of Nelson's column; final stage begins) and three color battle scenes by Christa Hook (Royal Marines on the Royal Sovereign; French sharpshooters in the mizzen top of the Redoutable; gun crews in action on HMS Victory). The author also includes an excellent bibliography and a glossary of naval terms.<br /><br /> Assessing the scale of the British victory is difficult,  since the only compilation of Allied losses is in tiny print in the OB section. The Allies lost 17 ships at Trafalgar, subsequently recaptured 3, and then lost 8 more in the next two weeks. Indeed, of the 33 Allied ships-of-the-line at Trafalgar, 23 had been lost in October 1805. Other than the elimination of so many Allied warships, the author claims that Trafalgar had \\"important consequences\\" - namely, the British occupation of Sicily. However, a British foothold in Sicily did not contribute to the defeat of Napoleon. Like most British historians, Dr. Fremont-Barnes sees Trafalgar as an epoch-making event, but this ignores the fact that the French made strenuous efforts to rebuild their fleet and while there were no more major fleet actions, the Royal Navy still had to commit substantial forces to blockade French ports. Naval history did not just \\"end\\" after Trafalgar and this author ignores the fact that the French Navy was at the cutting edge of naval technology for the next fifty years after Trafalgar. Claiming that Trafalgar was \\"the most decisive naval battle in modern times\\" as this author does ignores the fact that other battles, like Midway and Leyte Gulf, also had major strategic implications.<br /><br /> Nowhere is the author's over-emphasis on Nelson more prominent than in the final section, where he spends a couple pages discussing Nelson's funeral and his requests about Lady Hamilton and his daughter. Why is it that the author found it more important to mention Lady Hamilton's debts (a person who was not at Trafalgar) and death, but fails to mention that poor old French Admiral Villeneuve committed suicide? Throughout this volume, spotlight on Nelson drives the Franco-Spanish opponents into the shadows.ce the only compilation of Allied losses is in tiny print in the OB section. The Allies lost 17 ships at Trafalgar, subsequently recaptured 3, and then lost 8 more in the next two weeks. Indeed, of the 33 Allied ships-of-the-line at Trafalgar, 23 had been lost in October 1805. Other than the elimination of so many Allied warships, the author claims that Trafalgar had \\"important consequences\\" - namely, the British occupation of Sicily. However, a British foothold in Sicily did not contribute to the defeat of Napoleon. Like most British historians, Dr. Fremont-Barnes sees Trafalgar as an epoch-making event, but this ignores the fact that the French made strenuous efforts to rebuild their fleet and while there were no more major fleet actions, the Royal Navy still had to commit substantial forces to blockade French ports. Naval history did not just \\"end\\" after Trafalgar and this author ignores the fact that the French Navy was at the cutting edge of naval technology for the next fifty years after Trafalgar. Claiming that Trafalgar was \\"the most decisive naval battle in modern times\\" as this author does ignores the fact that other battles, like Midway and Leyte Gulf, also had major strategic implications.  <br /> <br /> Nowhere is the author's over-emphasis on Nelson more prominent than in the final section, where he spends a couple pages discussing Nelson's funeral and his requests about Lady Hamilton and his daughter. Why is it that the author found it more important to mention Lady Hamilton's debts (a person who was not at Trafalgar) and death, but fails to mention that poor old French Admiral Villeneuve committed suicide? Throughout this volume, spotlight on Nelson drives the Franco-Spanish opponents into the shadows.  <br />	2005-10-08
12283:US	52533596	R3P0CNAATK3YRH	1841766216	265798257	US Army Forces in the Korean War 1950–53 (Battle Orders)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A Good Adjunct to Other Sources, such as Clay Blair	Retired US Army Colonel Donald W. Boose, Jr. provides an authoritative survey of the composition and doctrine of the US Army in the Korean War in Osprey's Battle Orders #11. Readers looking for detailed line and block charts of various US Army units in this period, as well as details on tables of organization and equipment, will be well satisfied with this volume. However, readers should note that the omission of US Marine, UN and ROK units (which were often attached to US units) renders this account a partial one.<br /><br /> US Army Forces in the Korean War 1950-53 begins with introductory sections on the mission of US Army units in Korea, doctrine and training. In these sections, the author notes the gradual desegregation of the US Army in 1950-51 and the introduction of KATUSA augmentees. The heart of the volume lies in the 23-page section on unit organization, which details US units from 8th Army down to battalion level. Although Boose admits that he focuses on combat units at the expense of support units, some omissions probably required greater clarification. For example, Boose notes the Regimental Tank Company owned two medium trucks for mess and supply, but this clearly did not encompass fuel and ammunition resupply. This is no small issue. Even thirty years later, when my tank platoon in the 2nd Infantry Division in Korea was attached to an infantry unit, we had major problems getting fuel and ammunition since the infantry supply structure was not configured to support our requirements.<br /><br /> This volume has eight 2-D maps: the Korean War. Phase 1 (delay and defense); Phase II (counteroffensive); Phase III (war of movement); Phase IV (static warfare); UN offensive operations, September-October 1950; 8th Army advances north, 1951; corps boundary shift, April 1952; Korea communications zone, 1952-53. The author also includes numerous line and block charts on units from army to battalion level. Other sections cover weapons, C3I and unit status (a thumb-nail history of all major units in Korea). There is a wealth of information in these pages.<br /><br /> Although this volume is not designed to address the operational aspects of the war in much detail, I did have the sense that the author was soft-peddling the multitude of US setbacks in the war. The virtual destruction of the 24th Infantry Division in July-August 1950 (including the capture of its commander) get virtually no mention here. The 2nd Infantry Division's defeat in November 1950 - one of the greatest one-day losses in US military history - appears as a \\"setback.\\" Further US defeats in early 1951 also are barely mentioned. Boose tends to ascribe early US problems to understrength units but there was a lot more to it than that, including poor air-ground cooperation at the start, unrealistic training and a condescending attitude toward the KPA (a mistake the US repeated by underestimating the Chinese troops). The fact is that the US Army was initially unprepared for a tough ground war in Korea and was often outmaneuvered and outfought in the early months of the war. Boose also tends to repeat inaccurate shibboleths, such as \\"movement was restricted to roads and streambeds.\\" Although often described as \\"poor tank country\\" by non-armor officers, the fact is that armor can go just about anywhere in Korea, if the crews are daring enough. When I served as an armor officer in Korea, our tanks - which were much larger than the Korean War-vintage models - could go up some very steep slopes and through very narrow defiles (sometimes scraping rock on both sides). At any rate, Colonel Boose's volume is an excellent reference on the US Army in the Korean War, but its incompleteness suggests that it would best be used as an adjunct to other, more complete sources, such as Clay Blair's excellent history of the war.thumb-nail history of all major units in Korea). There is a wealth of information in these pages. <br /> <br /> Although this volume is not designed to address the operational aspects of the war in much detail, I did have the sense that the author was soft-peddling the multitude of US setbacks in the war. The virtual destruction of the 24th Infantry Division in July-August 1950 (including the capture of its commander) get virtually no mention here. The 2nd Infantry Division's defeat in November 1950 - one of the greatest one-day losses in US military history - appears as a \\"setback.\\" Further US defeats in early 1951 also are barely mentioned. Boose tends to ascribe early US problems to understrength units but there was a lot more to it than that, including poor air-ground cooperation at the start, unrealistic training and a condescending attitude toward the KPA (a mistake the US repeated by underestimating the Chinese troops). The fact is that the US Army was initially unprepared for a tough ground war in Korea and was often outmaneuvered and outfought in the early months of the war. Boose also tends to repeat inaccurate shibboleths, such as \\"movement was restricted to roads and streambeds.\\" Although often described as \\"poor tank country\\" by non-armor officers, the fact is that armor can go just about anywhere in Korea, if the crews are daring enough. When I served as an armor officer in Korea, our tanks - which were much larger than the Korean War-vintage models - could go up some very steep slopes and through very narrow defiles (sometimes scraping rock on both sides). At any rate, Colonel Boose's volume is an excellent reference on the US Army in the Korean War, but its incompleteness suggests that it would best be used as an adjunct to other, more complete sources, such as Clay Blair's excellent history of the war.  <br />	2005-10-07
24720:US	52533596	RSS4M5Z936358	1841768626	910923373	Acre 1291: Bloody sunset of the Crusader states (Campaign)	Books	2	16	20	N	N	More Art History than Military History	Dr. David Nicolle has proven in his numerous works that he is an expert on Medieval Mideastern history; however, his efforts in the Osprey Campaign series are written more from the cultural perspective than as military history. In Acre 1291, Campaign #154, Dr. Nicolle says a great deal about Muslim politics and culture in the 13th Century, but very little about the actual siege - less than 14 pages. I realize that Medieval sources limit the detail available, but Nicolle makes no effort to outline order of battle for either side and his tactical maps do not even have scale markers. The lead-up to the siege is particularly rambling and unfocused, including a pointless diversion to discuss Mamluke campaigns against the Nubians. Readers who enjoy art and cultural history may enjoy this volume, but readers looking for military history will be sadly disappointed.<br /><br /> Dr. Nicolle's opening introduction is actually quite good in summarizing this era, particularly in noting the impact of Mongol invasions on Islamic society (making it more inward-looking, less progressive) and the fact that Sunni leaders revived the concept of Jihad - not just against Western Crusaders, but Shia as well. Modern readers interested in the modern Mideast may note some interesting and incisive comments in this section.  The section on opposing commanders provides no real insight on the leadership abilities of either and the section on Opposing armies is particularly weak. Dr. Nicolle provides very little information on the organization or tactics of the Mamluks and he makes only the most general estimates about the relative size of the opposing forces (about 15,000 Christian troops versus lots and lots of Muslims). Since Nicolle does note that the Mamluk Army was not particularly large, it is not clear to me after reading this account why they won at all. Dr. Nicolle's maps also do not support the narrative very well, with the 2-D maps `zoomed out' too far (sometimes hard to even spot Acre without a magnifying glass) and the 3-D BEV maps - while pretty - actually don't say very much. Most of the BEV legends depict dispositions, rather than actions and I found it amazing that these maps lacked scales. Looking at a modern 1:50,000-scale map of Acre, it is clear that the wall facing the landside was only about 800 meters long. Given that Christian naval superiority prevented any Muslim attack from seaward, this would mean that the Christians could have had up to ten men defending EACH METER of wall, while keeping a 30% reserve (assuming 20% of the troops were sick or non-operational). Even though these numbers are generalized, it seems clear that the Crusaders had plenty of troops to man the while - and Nicolle admits that they had enough left over to mount frequent raids on the Muslim army - so why did they lose? Given that both sides had similar weapons and the Mamluks probably had no more than 3-1 numerical superiority (which was balanced by the fortifications), it seems that this siege was far from a foregone conclusion. However, this author sheds very little light on the military aspects of the siege, other than noting the activities of several siege engines and a few sorties. Dr. Nicolle does note that a collapse in morale had a major impact upon the Crusaders, but this does not seem to follow from the relatively light losses described.Acre without a magnifying glass) and the 3-D BEV maps - while pretty - actually don't say very much. Most of the BEV legends depict dispositions, rather than actions and I found it amazing that these maps lacked scales. Looking at a modern 1:50,000-scale map of Acre, it is clear that the wall facing the landside was only about 800 meters long. Given that Christian naval superiority prevented any Muslim attack from seaward, this would mean that the Christians could have had up to ten men defending EACH METER of wall, while keeping a 30% reserve (assuming 20% of the troops were sick or non-operational). Even though these numbers are generalized, it seems clear that the Crusaders had plenty of troops to man the while - and Nicolle admits that they had enough left over to mount frequent raids on the Muslim army - so why did they lose? Given that both sides had similar weapons and the Mamluks probably had no more than 3-1 numerical superiority (which was balanced by the fortifications), it seems that this siege was far from a foregone conclusion. However, this author sheds very little light on the military aspects of the siege, other than noting the activities of several siege engines and a few sorties. Dr. Nicolle does note that a collapse in morale had a major impact upon the Crusaders, but this does not seem to follow from the relatively light losses described.   <br />	2005-09-30
25256:US	52533596	RJY9HF1P3FGNG	1853676446	343358454	1805: Austerlitz: Napoleon and the Destruction of the Third Coalition	Books	4	27	33	N	N	Great detail on the classic battle	Robert Goetz, an international sales consultant and Napoleonic aficionado, delivers a meticulously researched account of Napoleon's stunning defeat of the Third Coalition in 1805: Austerlitz. Goetz has spent years researching the Russian army of this period and his narrative is the first that covers their perspective in detail, although the author is fair in his treatment of the French and Austrians. Compared to earlier works by Duffy and Bowden, this book by Goetz provides a higher level of detail - in fact, too much detail for any but the most die-hard Napoleonic enthusiasts. The author's main focus is to provide a very detailed analysis of the order of battle, unit strengths and casualties, but the actual battle narrative sometimes drowns under this veritable tsunami of data. 1805: Austerlitz offers an excellent reference book on the campaign and it clearly enlarges the information available on this battle, but it will appeal to a fairly limited audience.<br /><br />  1805: Austerlitz consists of eight chapters, three of which discuss the formation of the Third Coalition, the Ulm Campaign and the movement to Austerlitz. Goetz' chapter on the background to war is unusually good because he goes beyond the typical examination of the three main armies to discuss the forces and plans of all the coalition partners, including Sweden and Naples. Most books virtually ignore events in this war beyond Bavaria and Austria. Goetz is to be applauded for putting Austerlitz in proper strategic context. The description of the Ulm phase is good, although not much different from other accounts. Four chapters discuss the battle itself in great detail, covering the four main phases (Allied attack, French counterattack, French exploitation, Allied retreat). The author provides four very detailed appendices on Allied strength estimates, capsule biographies and order of battle.<br /><br />  The author joins with other historians in criticizing the Allied plan of attack for Austerlitz and later concludes that, \\"defeat was likely from the outset.\\" However, I think that bashing the Allied plan is a straw man argument at best, since it does not appear that the Allies had a real battle plan. As Goetz notes, Weyrother's instructions for battle were based on guesswork and providing no specific guidance for actions on contact or how to utilize the Allied artillery superiority. Instead, the Allied columns marched off into the fog, hoping for the best. That is not a plan. Goetz does cover the battle in minute-by-minute fashion and the 20 excellent maps make it easy for the reader to follow individual actions. Goetz also provides a table on Allied artillery losses - there is a wealth of data in these pages.<br /><br />  The author is also to be applauded for his balance in the book; although his main interest lies with the Russian forces, Goetz acknowledges the \\"near flawless\\" French tactical performance. Goetz attributes the French victory to better leadership, better training, more combat experience - all of which added up to \\"superior tactical execution.\\" On the other hand, he blames the poor Allied performance on a premature attack before all forces were available and a plan based on faulty assumptions (although the text makes clear that poor command and control was a decisive weakness). However, Goetz believes that the Russian soldiers fought as well as the French at the small unit level and that the French enjoyed no doctrinal advantages. In his assessment of the battle, Goetz seems to want to find a silver lining for the Allies by claiming that the French pursuit failed and the Allied armies were able to escape. Perhaps, but the fact that the Allies agreed to an armistice almost immediately and meekly agreed to all of Napoleon's terms indicates that their armies were unwilling or unable to carry on the war. The author's attempts to \\"dispel many of the myths\\" surrounding Austerlitz does not contain any fresh revelations. Goetz asserts that the `myth' that the Allied defeat was due to the use of outdated tactics is untrue, but it is unclear who he is refuting. He also notes that the `myth' that thousands of Russian troops drowned in the Satchan Pond is untrue, but Chandler noted as much forty years ago. This \\"myth busting\\" effort seems to be wrestling with phantoms in not disputing any specific counter-claims and sounds like a publisher's effort to attract more attention to a book for commercial purposes.<br /><br />  While 1805: Austerlitz is an illuminating work that delivers a wealth of data, the author's portrayal of the actual human beings involved and the drama of close combat is fairly flat. Although Goetz criticizes Tsar Alexander as `inexperienced' and General Buxhowden as `incompetent' this still does not explain the dysfunctional nature of Russian command and control on December 2, 1805. After reading Goetz' account, it should be clear to the reader that the Allied defeat rested heavily on Buxhowden's leadership failures, which crippled the Allied main effort. Buxhowden's failure to commit his plentiful reserves to either the fighting on the Goldbach or the Pratzen Heights was so incomprehensible that it cannot be chalked up to mere incompetence. Kutusov is portrayed as being in thrall to his sovereign's faulty decision-making but Bagration is shown acting aggressively without orders - clearly personalities mattered. The French commanders, with a few exceptions, are depicted as little more than ciphers. Ultimately, 1805: Austerlitz is an excellent study of this classic battle, but the author's efforts to present every last fact that he has extracted from Russian reports sometimes obscures the human drama.ts that the `myth' that the Allied defeat was due to the use of outdated tactics is untrue, but it is unclear who he is refuting. He also notes that the `myth' that thousands of Russian troops drowned in the Satchan Pond is untrue, but Chandler noted as much forty years ago. This \\"myth busting\\" effort seems to be wrestling with phantoms in not disputing any specific counter-claims and sounds like a publisher's effort to attract more attention to a book for commercial purposes.  <br /> <br />    While 1805: Austerlitz is an illuminating work that delivers a wealth of data, the author's portrayal of the actual human beings involved and the drama of close combat is fairly flat. Although Goetz criticizes Tsar Alexander as `inexperienced' and General Buxhowden as `incompetent' this still does not explain the dysfunctional nature of Russian command and control on December 2, 1805. After reading Goetz' account, it should be clear to the reader that the Allied defeat rested heavily on Buxhowden's leadership failures, which crippled the Allied main effort. Buxhowden's failure to commit his plentiful reserves to either the fighting on the Goldbach or the Pratzen Heights was so incomprehensible that it cannot be chalked up to mere incompetence. Kutusov is portrayed as being in thrall to his sovereign's faulty decision-making but Bagration is shown acting aggressively without orders - clearly personalities mattered. The French commanders, with a few exceptions, are depicted as little more than ciphers. Ultimately, 1805: Austerlitz is an excellent study of this classic battle, but the author's efforts to present every last fact that he has extracted from Russian reports sometimes obscures the human drama.  <br />	2005-09-29
25938:US	52533596	R39H0BKRTU81PK	1841768898	788689350	M3 Lee/Grant Medium Tank 1941–45 (New Vanguard)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	It Helped to Hold the Line in '42-43	Stephen J. Zaloga's M3 Lee/Grant Medium Tank 1941-45 provides a good summary of the hasty introduction of the first US medium tank in the summer of 1941. Given that the M4 Sherman medium tank normally gains most of the attention on US armor in the Second World War, Zaloga's volume in Osprey's New Vanguard series sheds light on an all-but-forgotten weapon system that was there when it mattered.<br /><br /> Zaloga begins his narrative with a discussion of the genesis of the medium tank concept and the unsuccessful M2 tank built in 1939-41. Due to German successes in the opening year of the Second World War, the US Army suddenly recognized the need for medium tanks but early attempts to produce a viable design were handicapped by the backwardness of US defense industry. The M3 Lee tank, which began series production in June 1941, was seen by the US Armored Force as a stop-gap until the better-designed M4 Sherman became available in 1942. However, British pressure to produce a version of the M3 for their own use in North Africa led to the M3 Grant variant and an expansion of the program. By the time of Pearl Harbor, over 800 M3s had been built and over 6,000 were built by the time production ceased in December 1942. Zaloga's description of the M3's development is a bit brief even for this format; one item that remains unclear is what impact the concurrent M3 and M4 programs had on each other (i.e. competition for resources). Zaloga provides a table that lists all M3 production, broken down by month and by individual plants.<br /><br /> Almost half this volume comprises the M3's operational use by Commonwealth, US and Soviet forces in the Second World War. Zaloga notes that the British liked the Grant's firepower and automotive reliability and this tank formed the backbone of the 8th Army's tank force in the critical battles of Gazala, Alam Halfa and El Alamein. The US Army only used the M3 in Tunisia in 1942-43 and the tank was soon phased out in favor of the M4. Although considered obsolete by 1943, the M3 continued to see extensive service against the Japanese in Burma and India. Zaloga includes tables that list foreign deployment of the M3 and lend-lease shipments. Zaloga concludes the volume with a brief description of variants, including the M7 self-propelled 105mm howitzer and tank retrievers. Color plates include M3s in pre-war colors, in Soviet and Commonwealth markings and an interesting cutaway diagram. Although not a successful design, the M3 medium tank represented a stop gap that achieved its purpose of equipping the nascent US tank force until better equipment became available. Furthermore, the production of over 6,000 M3s in a short period was an amazing achievement for a US defense industry that up to that point had no record of producing large quantities of armored vehicles.Although considered obsolete by 1943, the M3 continued to see extensive service against the Japanese in Burma and India. Zaloga includes tables that list foreign deployment of the M3 and lend-lease shipments. Zaloga concludes the volume with a brief description of variants, including the M7 self-propelled 105mm howitzer and tank retrievers. Color plates include M3s in pre-war colors, in Soviet and Commonwealth markings and an interesting cutaway diagram. Although not a successful design, the M3 medium tank represented a stop gap that achieved its purpose of equipping the nascent US tank force until better equipment became available. Furthermore, the production of over 6,000 M3s in a short period was an amazing achievement for a US defense industry that up to that point had no record of producing large quantities of armored vehicles.  <br />	2005-09-29
31062:US	52533596	R3GGODHRQRP33N	1841769134	185393024	Anzio 1944: The beleaguered beachhead (Campaign)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Good, but a bit Top-Heavy in Approach	Stephen Zaloga's Anzio 1944, #155 in Osprey's Campaign series, provides a solid, if conventional account of one of the more controversial Allied operations in the Second World War. Zaloga states in the introduction \\"the Anzio Operation presents a classic study of ambitious political objectives doomed by limited military resources.\\" British Prime Minister Churchill and US 5th Army Commander General Clark were not satisfied to merely outflank the German defenses on the Gustav Line with the intended amphibious operation - they wanted Rome. Although Zaloga's narrative summary is solid, his over-emphasis on the role of senior decision-makers ignores the misery down at the trench level in this very bitter campaign and does not provide readers with any feel for the tactical-level combat.<br /><br /> In the section on opposing commanders, Zaloga's top-heavy approach is most evident and it reduces the value of this component. On the German side, Zaloga only covers the theater commander (Kesselring) and the two army commanders (von Mackensen and Vietinghoff), with little real mention of the commanders of the 1st Fallschirmjager Corps or 76th Panzer Corps (von Choltitz). On the Allied side, Zaloga only covers the theater commander (Alexander), army commander (Clark) and corps commander (Lucas), with only slight asides to Truscott or the British tactical-level commanders. The Opposing Armies section is also rather abbreviated and provides none of the incisive analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of each side that Zaloga normally delivers. Although Zaloga provides many photographs of the Allied 1st Special Service Force, he fails to discuss its strength or special capabilities or even mention that it was a joint US-Canadian unit. Overall, the British contribution at Anzio gets rather short shrift in this volume. However, the Opposing Plans section is longer than usual and effectively puts the initial Allied landings into their proper operational context, with apt mention of German intelligence failures and Allied misgivings about the operation.<br /><br /> As usual for the Osprey Campaign series, the maps and artwork are quite good. The five 2-D maps are: strategic situation in Italy, January 1944; Anzio beachhead, 1 February 1944; Operation Seitensprung, 28 February - 3 March 1944; Operation Buffalo, 23-24 May 1944; the Race for Rome, 31 May - 1 June 1944. The three 3-D maps are: Operation Shingle, 22 January 1944; Battle for the Thumb, 3-11 February 1944; Operation `Fischfang' 16-20 February 1944. The three battle scenes are: He-177 bombers launching Hs-293 missiles at the Allied fleet; the US 45th Infantry Division fighting for `the factory,' 11 February 1944; and German Panther tanks and B-IV demolition vehicles moving up to the front. Zaloga's order of battle data is decent, particularly for the German counterattacks, but is a bit weak on the Allied side (particularly in mentioning units that arrived later in the beachhead).<br /><br /> Zaloga's campaign narrative is particularly adept at assessing Allied actions and German reactions. Unlike some other historians, Zaloga does not criticize Lucas for failing to seize the Alban Hills or Rome - which would have exposed his small forces to defeat in detail - but does fault him for not securing better defensive positions, such as Cisterna. Zaloga also states that the Allies seriously underestimated the German ability to reinforce the bridgehead area and that Kesselring did not flinch in the face of a surprise amphibious landing and divert troops from the main line of resistance at Cassino. Furthermore, German air and missile attacks negated much of the usual Allied naval gunfire support and poor weather reduced air support. Muddy, water-logged terrain negated armor on both sides and reduced the battle to a series of slugging matches in the mud, dominated by artillery. In essence, Anzio degenerated into a First World War-style battle and was just as inconclusive. Although the Germans tried three times to smash the Allied beachhead - and came close - the ample supply of artillery ammunition and the ability to mass corps artillery saved the Allies from disaster. Anzio is a difficult campaign to study, but Zaloga's narrative provides a comprehensible summary.<br /><br /> My only real concern with Anzio 1944 - and this is made in full recognition of the constraints of the Osprey series - is that this volume does not make any effort to depict the tactical level, which reduces the value of this account. Given that most of the fighting at Anzio involved a few German divisions against a few Allied divisions, I find it a glaring omission that the actual front-line soldiers are omitted; why is there not a single first-person account from somebody who actually fought at Cisterna or the `Factory?' Zaloga might have noted that Audie Murphy was in the 1-15th Infantry near Cisterna and his book would have been a good source of one or two accounts of small-unit action at Anzio While the discussions about Churchill and Clark and Kesselring are fine for strategic context, this volume fails to convey the sheer misery of this campaign for the infantry that fought in it.mans tried three times to smash the Allied beachhead - and came close - the ample supply of artillery ammunition and the ability to mass corps artillery saved the Allies from disaster. Anzio is a difficult campaign to study, but Zaloga's narrative provides a comprehensible summary. <br /> <br /> My only real concern with Anzio 1944 - and this is made in full recognition of the constraints of the Osprey series - is that this volume does not make any effort to depict the tactical level, which reduces the value of this account. Given that most of the fighting at Anzio involved a few German divisions against a few Allied divisions, I find it a glaring omission that the actual front-line soldiers are omitted; why is there not a single first-person account from somebody who actually fought at Cisterna or the `Factory?' Zaloga might have noted that Audie Murphy was in the 1-15th Infantry near Cisterna and his book would have been a good source of one or two accounts of small-unit action at Anzio While the discussions about Churchill and Clark and Kesselring are fine for strategic context, this volume fails to convey the sheer misery of this campaign for the infantry that fought in it.     <br />	2005-09-27
62876:US	52533596	R317FJF6U5OGEA	0140441697	325539792	Fourteen Byzantine Rulers: The Chronographia of Michael Psellus (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	43	54	N	Y	A Tainted Account from the Byzantine Court	Michael Psellus' Chronographia, written in the 11th Century, gives the modern reader a glimpse into the court and personal lives of fourteen Byzantine rulers. Psellus served as a court advisor and resident intellectual to several of these rulers and had direct contact with most of his subjects, which makes this book a valuable first-person account from an obscure period of Medieval history. However, Psellus' account is oftentimes less a historical narrative than a piece of deliberate disinformation, as the editor often points out in footnotes. The Byzantine Empire was beginning to decline in the period of the author's narrative and his account often seems designed to conceal or distort his own role in this phase. While the author appears as a fairly sympathetic and intellectual character early in his narrative, by the time he rose to the rank of senior advisor he was clearly corrupted and he admits in the final chapters that he was rewarded financially for his overly flattering portrayals of Emperor Michael VII. At one point, the author admits that \\"I have passed over in this work many facts worthy of mention\\" in order to satisfy his benefactors. Thus, read Psellus to gain insight into certain aspects of the Byzantine mindset, but be aware that this is a \\"tainted history\\" in which the author's primary loyalty is to his own self-promotion and avarice, not the truth.<br /><br /> Psellus' narrative begins with the 49 year-reign of the Emperor Basil II, whose hard work brought the Byzantine Empire to the pinnacle of its strength, with secure borders and a full treasury. Although Psellus was only a child when Basil's reign came to an end, he bases this part of the narrative on contemporary secondary sources and it seems fairly objective. The six rulers that followed Basil in the next 17 years, when Psellus was a youth, are covered fairly rapidly although the author did have some contact with these individuals. It is with Emperor Constantine IX (1042-1055) that Psellus' narrative begins in earnest and this chapter is fully 25% of the book. Psellus entered the life of the court under this emperor and he admits that he benefited from his reign, but he also admits his overt bias when he says that, \\"I knew that in many things I should clash with the Emperor Constantine and I should be ashamed of myself if I did not seize every opportunity of commending him.\\" Although the previous rulers had been a string of ineffective mediocrities, even Psellus' account admits that Constantine IX \\"chose a life of pleasure and luxury\\" and that he \\"wasted the imperial treasury\\" on satisfying the whims of his nit-wit mistress. In short order, the sound military and financial structure built by Basil II was depleted by Constantine II, although Psellus seems to shrug his shoulders at this. Indeed, the author was clearly a sycophantic courtier, who frequently describes the \\"beauty\\" of this emperor and compares his head to \\"the sun in its glory.\\" Psellus admits that \\"it was not my desire to write a history, nor to acquire a reputation for veracity in that sphere; what I wanted to do was to compose a panegyric in honor of this ruler.\\" Thus, Psellus' shabby gift to the modern reader is a propaganda piece, not objective truth. This is not to say that Psellus conceals his benefactors faults - at one point he admit that Constantine IX protected a nobleman who had embezzled a huge sum from the military budget - but despite this unethical behavior he still describes him as \\"this very great emperor.\\"<br /><br /> Readers will probably find Psellus a vain and smug intellectual, who claims superior knowledge in all spheres, including warfare and medicine. At one point, Psellus wrote that, \\"I know that perfumes give off a vapor which drives away evil spirits...\\" and he seems to confuse reading about warfare with expertise in warfare.<br /><br />  One theme that does appear throughout Psellus' narrative is that a very poor state of civil-military relations contributed tothe decline of the Byzantine Empire, by causing rebellions and a low state of military preparedness. Weak emperors viewed their mobile field armies as a potential source of rebellion and consequently deprived them of resources, despite near-constant threats on the borders. Promising military leaders were denied promotion or even cashiered, lest them become rivals to mediocre emperors. Instead, weak emperors preferred to rely upon fixed fortifications, particularly the redoubtable walls of Constantinople, rather than mobile forces. However, this neglect of the mobile armies weakened the ability of the empire to ward off external threats and began the reliance on foreign mercenaries. It is also apparent that Psellus was part of an anti-military cabal and that some of his advice contributed to the declining fortunes of the empire.<br /><br />  Psellus' description of the reign of Romanus IV (1068-1071) and the disastrous Manzikert campaign against the Turks appears deliberately unfair to the one emperor who tried to revive the empire's military fortunes. After Manzikert, Psellus was apparently part of the conspiracy that removed Romanus and at that point his narrative becomes rather sickening in its blatant bias. Psellus became particularly attached to the young emperor Michael VII, another nitwit who is described as \\"a prodigy,\\" \\"a divinity\\" and a \\"God-like emperor.\\" Psellus admits, \\"favors were heaped upon me, gifts were sent to me... augmenting the wealth that I already possessed.\\" In fact, Psellus even admits that Michael submitted his own version of his biography for Psellus to include in his work. Thus, while the Turks were massacring Byzantine civilians in Anatolia and depopulating the eastern empire, this author was getting rich writing a whitewashed history of a conniving thug. Although the editor writes that what happened to Psellus after 1078 is not known, one might hope after reading this shameless piece of disinformation that the author's head ended up on a Turkish spearpoint.tributed to the decline of the Byzantine Empire, by causing rebellions and a low state of military preparedness. Weak emperors viewed their mobile field armies as a potential source of rebellion and consequently deprived them of resources, despite near-constant threats on the borders. Promising military leaders were denied promotion or even cashiered, lest them become rivals to mediocre emperors. Instead, weak emperors preferred to rely upon fixed fortifications, particularly the redoubtable walls of Constantinople, rather than mobile forces. However, this neglect of the mobile armies weakened the ability of the empire to ward off external threats and began the reliance on foreign mercenaries. It is also apparent that Psellus was part of an anti-military cabal and that some of his advice contributed to the declining fortunes of the empire.  <br /> <br />  Psellus' description of the reign of Romanus IV (1068-1071) and the disastrous Manzikert campaign against the Turks appears deliberately unfair to the one emperor who tried to revive the empire's military fortunes. After Manzikert, Psellus was apparently part of the conspiracy that removed Romanus and at that point his narrative becomes rather sickening in its blatant bias. Psellus became particularly attached to the young emperor Michael VII, another nitwit who is described as \\"a prodigy,\\" \\"a divinity\\" and a \\"God-like emperor.\\" Psellus admits, \\"favors were heaped upon me, gifts were sent to me... augmenting the wealth that I already possessed.\\" In fact, Psellus even admits that Michael submitted his own version of his biography for Psellus to include in his work. Thus, while the Turks were massacring Byzantine civilians in Anatolia and depopulating the eastern empire, this author was getting rich writing a whitewashed history of a conniving thug. Although the editor writes that what happened to Psellus after 1078 is not known, one might hope after reading this shameless piece of disinformation that the author's head ended up on a Turkish spearpoint.  <br />	2005-09-10
88528:US	52533596	R2P4W2KLM0PVGI	0764301780	730232702	German Remote-Control Tank Units 1940-1943 (Schiffer Military/Aviation History)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Good Intro to an Obscure Subject	Although readers with a background in the Second World War may be aware of the German \\"Goliath\\" remote control miniature tanks, few will be aware of the development and organization of Germany's R/C tank units. This volume by Markus Jaugitz provides an excellent introduction to the subject, detailing how the Wehrmacht became interested in R/C demolition vehicles after studying a captured French prototype in 1940 (the contribution of French military R&D to the Wehrmacht's war effort is often under-appreciated). For readers interested in the subject but unwilling to pay $100 for the author's much larger hard cover volume on the subject, this volume offers an inexpensive alternative. Initially, the German-built version was only considered for mine-clearing but by 1941 the Germans began to think of the R/C vehicle as an inexpensive way of destroying enemy strong points on the battlefield.<br /><br /> This volume includes 74 excellent B/W photographs and 9 line drawings. In addition to providing a decent overview of the development of R/C vehicles, the author provides a good amount of information and photographs on the early operational employment of R/C vehicles in the Crimea and North Africa in 1942. Most of this volume (a second covers 1943-45) covers the early German R/C vehicles, such as the  B IV, the NSU Kettenrad and various captured vehicles like the Bren Gun carrier. The \\"Goliath\\" is only covered in the last few pages. Although the author discusses the 300th Panzer Battalion (FL) - the first operational R/C unit - he does not provide much information on its actual organization, which is unfortunate, since his harcover volume has many organization charts. Overall, this volume is a good introduction to this obscure subject, but readers interested in more detailed coverage should just buy the hard cover volume instead.	2005-08-27
88755:US	52533596	R1Z2SL6KENWBNV	184176891X	47869418	Battle of the Boyne 1690: The Irish campaign for the English crown	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Volumes Like This Prove the Value of Osprey Campaign Series	There has been a tendency among some reviewers and various professional nay-sayers on the internet to belittle Osprey's Campaign series as superficial and hence, of little value. Amateur historian Michael McNally's Campaign #160, the Battle of the Boyne 1690, should serve as ample justification for the value of this long-running series, which since 1990 has covered dozens of campaigns, and battles that have received scant attention in the recent past. Where else for less than $20 can a reader purchase a volume that includes color maps, order of battle data, a bibliography, capsule biographies, etc on such a wide range of military history? While the quality of individual volumes has varied, the series has improved over time and many volumes do in fact provide more than just a rehash of other secondary sources. McNally's Battle of the Boyne, which offers a very detailed look into a battle that has otherwise often just been glossed over, signifies the value of this series.<br /><br /> Since the background to the Boyne Campaign was rather complex, McNally provides a 7-page introduction, followed by 18 pages on the events leading up to the battle. The section on opposing commanders provides excellent capsule biographies of the key leaders and readers should enjoy the information and color uniform plates in the opposing armies section. Indeed, McNally does an excellent job outlining the strengths and weaknesses of both sides and shows that competent writers who know how to synthesize can pack a lot of data into a small package. A section on opposing plans also provides insight into the Williamite and Jacobite strategies. The strength of this volume also lies in its excellent graphic quality, with excellent maps and color plates.  The five 2-D maps include the military situation in Ireland, January - June 1689; the siege of Derry; the military situation in Ireland, July - December 1689; the Battle of the Boyne; the Boyne campaign and its aftermath, June-July 1690. The two 3-D BEV maps are the Williamite attack and the Jacobite collapse at the Battle of the Boyne. The two color battle scenes are King James before the dates of Kerry; the death of the Duke of Schomberg.  In addition, the author provides an excellent order of battle, a detailed campaign chronology and a lengthy bibliography.<br /><br /> The author's narrative of the actual Battle of the Boyne consists of 24 pages. Like most Americans who read European history, my knowledge of the Battle was fairly superficial and tended to encompass the Williamite view that the battle was a foregone conclusion (remember, victors write the history). However, McNally demonstrates that the Jacobite position, while desperate, was far from doomed and the battle was a hard-fought engagement that could have gone either way. Indeed, McNally's narrative is marked by an even-handed approach that provides perspectives from both sides. While some readers may complain that the military analysis herein is minimal (for example, the role of Williamite artillery in the battle), the author succeeds in detailing the Williamite envelopment, the confused Jacobite response and the climax of the battle. My only disappointment with this volume was the omission of any attempt to assess the total casualties suffered by each side in the battle - which makes it hard for the reader to assess how \\"decisive\\" a win this really was for the Williamites, since of course, the war in Ireland lasted for another year. While I understand that exact data was probably unavailable, I would have appreciated an educated guess by the author. By the time that I finished, the author had succeeded in changing my impression of the campaign and redefining my views on this phase of Anglo-Irish history - not bad for a volume just shy of 100 pages.wo 3-D BEV maps are the Williamite attack and the Jacobite collapse at the Battle of the Boyne. The two color battle scenes are King James before the dates of Kerry; the death of the Duke of Schomberg.  In addition, the author provides an excellent order of battle, a detailed campaign chronology and a lengthy bibliography.  <br /> <br /> The author's narrative of the actual Battle of the Boyne consists of 24 pages. Like most Americans who read European history, my knowledge of the Battle was fairly superficial and tended to encompass the Williamite view that the battle was a foregone conclusion (remember, victors write the history). However, McNally demonstrates that the Jacobite position, while desperate, was far from doomed and the battle was a hard-fought engagement that could have gone either way. Indeed, McNally's narrative is marked by an even-handed approach that provides perspectives from both sides. While some readers may complain that the military analysis herein is minimal (for example, the role of Williamite artillery in the battle), the author succeeds in detailing the Williamite envelopment, the confused Jacobite response and the climax of the battle. My only disappointment with this volume was the omission of any attempt to assess the total casualties suffered by each side in the battle - which makes it hard for the reader to assess how \\"decisive\\" a win this really was for the Williamites, since of course, the war in Ireland lasted for another year. While I understand that exact data was probably unavailable, I would have appreciated an educated guess by the author. By the time that I finished, the author had succeeded in changing my impression of the campaign and redefining my views on this phase of Anglo-Irish history - not bad for a volume just shy of 100 pages.   <br />	2005-08-27
89075:US	52533596	R165YM2BYP5GNZ	0897470486	442008897	German Railroad Guns in Action - Armor No. 15	Books	3	10	10	N	N	A Handy Reference	This volume in Squadron's \\"In Action\\" series provides a handy reference on German railroad artillery in the Second World War. The volume includes 76 excellent B/W photos, 12 line drawings and 7 color illustrations. Although brief, the volume does manage to cover a wide range of weapons, including German 15 cm, 17 cm, 20 cm, 21 cm, 24 cm, 28 cm and 80 cm guns, as well as captured French 30 cm, 32 cm, 34 cm and 37 cm railroad guns. Readers should particularly enjoy the coverage on the 80 cm \\"Dora\\" gun (biggest artillery piece ever made) and the lethal 28 cm K-5 \\"Anzio Annie\\" guns.<br /><br /> This volume outlines the development, testing and use of German railroad guns, although information on actual employment is rather limited. While the other does list the various German railroad artillery regiments and batteries, the OB is incomplete and confusing. Basic technical data on each German-made weapon is listed, but not for the French weapons (although figures for range are usually given in photo captions). While certainly only an introduction to this subject, this volume does succeed in providing a handy and inexpensive reference to a relatively obscure subject.	2005-08-27
89548:US	52533596	RUFUU61UUHGZC	0887402402	807198462	German Rocket Launchers in WWII: (Schiffer Military History)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Bit Shallow, But A Good Intro	This volume in Schiffer's military history series covers the various German rocket launchers in the Second World War. The volume has 55 B/W photographs and 7 line drawings. The weapons covered include the 10 cm, 15 cm, 21 cm, 28/32 cm, 40/41 cm rocket launchers, the 15 cm Panzer Launcher 42, the 8 cm multiple launcher and the row launching device. The author also provides data on the production, cost and performance of individual weapons, as well as an appendix on the chronology of German rocket development.<br /><br /> Although this volume suffices as an introduction to the subject, the amount of information on the organization and composition of rocket launcher units is very limited. OB data is negligible, although the author does provide information on the growth of the rocket launcher force in terms of personnel. Furthermore, there is a bit too much on self-propelled rocket launchers that appeared late in the conflict, with much less on the rocket launcher force in 1941-43. Overall, this volume provides a decent and inexpensive, albeit overly-succinct, introduction to this subject.	2005-08-27
91728:US	52533596	R17O6M8WBV6BP2	0887403220	871152835	German Heavy Mortars:	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A Bit Skimpy, But Adequate	This short photographic survey of German heavy mortars in the Second World War is useful for shedding light on a number of obscure weapons. Although the volume is primarily intended for model-builders, it does provide a good overview of German 21 - 60 cm mortars. The volume has 58 B/W and 1 color photographs, as well as 9 sketches or line drawings. The author includes a 1-page appendix on weapons data, but fewer than 10 pages of text and captions. The weapons covered in this volume include: the 21 cm Long Mortar M16 L/14.5; the 21 cm Mortar 18 L/31; the 30 cm Mortar M17/L12; the 42 cm Mortar L12; the 42 cm Mortar L16 \\"Gamma\\"; the 42 cm Haubitze M16; the 60 cm Mortar \\"Karl\\"; the 38 cm Sturmmorser; the French-made 22 cm Mortar M14 and 28 cm M16; the Skoda 38 cm Mortar M16 L/17 and the 52 cm Mortar M18/L16. A sketch of the 21 cm Geschutzwagen VI self-propelled mortar is also included.<br /><br />  On the positive side, readers will probably appreciate the 8 pages devoted to the \\"Karl\\" mortar and researchers will appreciate the information provided on cost, materials used in construction and weapons production rates. However, the lack of any information on the specific Wehrmacht units which operated each weapon and the minimal information on operational use is a disappointment. Furthermore, the technical data is a bit scanty, given that charts don't require much space and the omission of a single photograph would have provided room for more than the basic data provided. Overall, this volume is a decent, if skimpy, introduction to German heavy mortars in the Second World War.	2005-08-25
92584:US	52533596	R3D0GAX9CO8IVN	0764305697	210976535	German Heavy 24 Cm Canon: Development and Action 1916-1945 (Schiffer Military/Aviation History)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Deceptive Title	Although the cover of this volume in Schiffer's military history says \\"German Heavy 24 cm Cannon,\\" the inner title page says only \\"Heavy 24 cm Cannon.\\" It turns out that both of these titles are inaccurate and deceptive. This thin volume is in fact, a brief history of only the six Skoda-built 24 cm M.16 cannons that were purchased by Germany from Czechoslovakia in 1938. Indeed, the author does not even mention that the Wehrmacht employed at least eight other models of 24 cm cannons during the Second World War. While I was certainly not expecting a comprehensive approach from such a short publication, I was expecting at least a survey of the topic.<br /><br />  Despite the disappointment about the narrowness of the author's coverage, this volume does provide a fairly adequate description of the six Skoda M.16 cannons in the Second World War. The 90 B/W photographs in the volume are very good and are supplemented by several silhouette drawings of support equipment. The author provides a brief background description of how the 24 cm cannon was developed by the Austro-Hungarian Army in the First World War and how the Wehrmacht became interested in acquiring the weapons. The author then provides a lengthy photo section that details the installation procedures for the 24 cm cannon in a firing position. A brief, 2-page section discusses the operational service of the Skoda M.16 cannon in the German II/84 artillery battalion; the guns operated primarily around Leningrad in 1941-44, but two remained in action up to May 1945. The author also provides two pages of technical data on the weapons, as well as two pages on the 24 cm ammunition and a map of the firing locations around Leningrad. Overall, this volume covers the Skoda M.16 cannon fairly well, but readers expecting it to cover other German 24 cm cannons will be disappointed.	2005-08-25
116001:US	52533596	RVS3TTYOG8QQI	070061267X	518204550	The Philadelphia Campaign, 1777-1778 (Modern War Studies)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	A good effort, but weakened by lack of detail	Stephen R. Taaffe, a history professor in Texas, attempts to describe and interpret the campaign around Philadelphia in 1777-1778 between Washington's Continental army and the British army under Lord Howe.  The results are mixed. In short, this book is interesting, but as a military campaign narrative, it suffers from several intrinsic flaws. The author also makes some rather simplistic efforts to draw some overly broad conclusions about the campaign. On the plus side, the author covers some neglected but important aspects of the campaign that are often left out of standard histories that focus on the major engagements such as Brandywine and Germantown. In particular, the author's description of the British efforts to clear the Delaware River forts in late 1777 is first-rate.  Overall, this book fills in gaps that other books miss or gloss over, but it does not deliver the kind of unique details that would cement its place in Revolutionary War literature.<br /><br />  This book has several weaknesses that diminish its value. Probably the weakest element of this book is the maps, which simply do not allow the reader to follow the author's campaign narrative very well. The five maps are far too basic and show far too little detail to be useful. Oddly, the author provides no decent map of Philadelphia and its immediate environs, including Valley Forge. Another key weakness of this book is the relatively limited military detail provided, particularly in regard to order of battle information. For example, very few British units are specifically identified in this volume, although the author often refers to generic \\"light infantry\\" or \\"grenadier\\" units. Furthermore, the author's battle narratives of the main engagements are overly summarized and provide few details that are not present in other standard histories of the war. Given that the author only has to deal with three main battles, I expected the author to provide better information on casualties and strengths (like how much artillery did each side have?) than he actually did.<br /><br />  The author also has an unfortunate tendency to use modern vernacular, often in a reckless style. For example, he inappropriately describes a feud between two American commanders as \\"a personal jihad.\\"  Later, he claims that \\"the British army occasionally maneuvered like a blindfolded child flailing away at a pi&ntilde;ata\\" but it is unclear from his narrative that the British army under Howe was every \\"flailing away.\\" Indeed, the author's narrative makes clear that the British army was very mission-focused and often out-maneuvered the American army. The author writes that Washington had to resist the urge to \\"engage the British in one giant G&ouml;tterd&auml;mmerung,\\" which is another silly and inappropriate use of a 20th Century term. The cumulative effect of this frequent and often inappropriate use of modern vernacular to describe an 18th Century campaign is to reduce the author's descriptive credibility.<br /><br />  On the plus side, the author is able to summarize a great deal of information and deliver it in a coherent package. Professor Taaffe has meticulously researched this book and although it has its flaws, he does pack in a lot of information that is not always present in other accounts. Much of the author's assessment of the campaign comes down to his interpretation of Washington's leadership, which he assesses as often flawed at the tactical level but essentially sound at the operational level. On the other hand, the author castigates Lord Howe and the British army for fighting a tactically successful but ultimately sterile campaign. These interpretations are fairly standard views, at least for modern historians, and actually don't provide all that much insight. Few historians claim that Washington was a great tactician or battlefield commander - he generally wasn't - but this view of the American Revolution tends to skew the depiction in terms of the \\"great man\\" approach to history. Certainly Washington was a critical leader in the Revolution, as were many of his subordinates, but this approach to history tends to reduce historical outcomes of major events to the character of a few leaders - a method that is overly-simplistic at best and perhaps inaccurate. Put another way, since the Americans lost all the battles in the Philadelphia Campaign, would it have really made any difference if their commander had been Gates or Lee instead of Washington. Furthermore, even when the British were able to smash American armies, as at Long Island, Charleston and Camden, it still didn't change the fact that they could not control most of the population. In short, the American Revolution was far too complex an event to describe in terms of mere battlefield maneuvering as this author does, nor can it be reduced to the personalities of a few military leaders on either side.pproach to history. Certainly Washington was a critical leader in the Revolution, as were many of his subordinates, but this approach to history tends to reduce historical outcomes of major events to the character of a few leaders - a method that is overly-simplistic at best and perhaps inaccurate. Put another way, since the Americans lost all the battles in the Philadelphia Campaign, would it have really made any difference if their commander had been Gates or Lee instead of Washington. Furthermore, even when the British were able to smash American armies, as at Long Island, Charleston and Camden, it still didn't change the fact that they could not control most of the population. In short, the American Revolution was far too complex an event to describe in terms of mere battlefield maneuvering as this author does, nor can it be reduced to the personalities of a few military leaders on either side. <br />	2005-08-12
146653:US	52533596	R1ZD5S54OKGHEQ	1841769142	241203596	Kasserine Pass 1943: Rommel's last victory (Campaign)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Good, but appears to gloss over US tactical mistakes	The battle of Kasserine Pass in February 1943 is typically remembered as both the initial baptism of fire of US troops in Europe in the Second World War and as a US tactical defeat that led to much-needed reforms - a theme that was well covered in Rick Atkinson's excellent \\"An Army at Dawn\\" in 2002  . However, in Osprey Campaign #152, veteran author Stephen J. Zaloga argues that, \\"contrary to the popular image, Kasserine Pass was in the end an Allied victory.\\" This is a very hard-sell argument and if it was not a historian of Zaloga's caliber making it, this thesis would probably be dead on arrival. Zaloga argues that the tactical setbacks in the opening days of the campaign caused Eisenhower to heavily reinforce the US II Corps in Tunisia and then ordered it to adopt a more offensive posture than had been contemplated before the German attack, which then led to the quick collapse of the Axis position in southern Tunisia. Zaloga makes a decent case, but in the end it is not that convincing - the plain fac ts about US and German comparative losses in the campaign are rather difficult to get around and still claim that the affair was a US triumph. Indeed, Zaloga's subtitle - \\"Rommel's last victory\\" - seems to refute his hypothesis that Kasserine was a US victory. Nevertheless, Zaloga's narrative is clear and well argued as usual, and this volume deserves its place on the bookshelf with Zaloga's earlier volumes.<br /><br /> Zaloga's opening section on the background to the campaign in Tunis and Operation Torch is clear and succinct. The section on opposing commanders - never Zaloga's forte - is a bit weak, particularly in that the focus is mostly on army-level commanders, rather than the actual tactical commanders (for a campaign that essentially only involved a couple of divisions on each side). However, the section on opposing armies is very good and Zaloga covers a great deal in these eleven pages (although the Allied OB is only 5 lines - Zaloga might have listed some of the non-divisional tank destroyer units at least). Zaloga's section on opposing plans is also excellent and highlights both the arguments and disunity in the Axis command that led to a muddled operational plan as well as the failure of Allied intelligence analysis that predicted a German attack elsewhere. Indeed, Zaloga highlights that the availability of Enigma-derived information about German planning led Allied intelligence officers to discount other tactical reporting - today, we would call this a problem in intelligence fusion, where information from one preferred source is allowed to drown out other equally valid sources. Poor intelligence analysis about the location of the expected German attack, combined with inadequate forces and a faulty US tactical doctrine meant that US forces would fight under severe handicaps when they first met the Wehrmacht. The volume also includes five 2-D maps (the strategic situation in Tunisia, 10 February 1943; preliminary moves in central Tunisia, Jan-Feb 1943; rival Axis plans; Operation Wop, 16-23 March 1943; US II Corps in northern Tunisia, April-May 1943) and three 3-D maps (Sidi Bou Zid, 14-15 February 1943; Kasserine Pass, 20-22 February 1943; El Guettar, 23 March 1943). The volume also includes three excellent battle scenes (the charge of 2/1st Armored at Sidi Bou Zid, 15 Feb 1943; 10th Panzer Division at El Guettar, 23 March; Operation Flax: the Cap Bon Massacre, 22 April 1943) by Michael Welply.<br /><br /> Zaloga's coverage of the initial fighting around Sidi Bou Zid is a bit skimpy and he seems to avoid any criticism of the extremely inept US tactical leadership in this first battle. Zaloga notes that German panzers moved to \\"silence\\" US artillery - in fact they overran and destroyed the 2-17th Field Artillery. He says senior US commanders \\"were wary\\" of the first reports of the attack - in fact, Eisenhower was goofing off with his staff at the time. Nor does Zaloga mention the fate of the 168th Infantry Regiment which was left isolated in the hills near Sidi Bou Zid - both battalions attempted to escape but about 1,800 US troops were captured in the process.  In a matter of one day, the Germans had eliminated virtually an entire US reinforced brigade, at slight cost to themselves. Furthermore, Zaloga makes little mention of the uneven performance of US troops in this first fight - with some fighting heroically but others running or refusing to fight. All in all, the US performance at Sidi Bou Zid was very poor - but this is not entirely evident in Zaloga's account.<br /><br /> The section on the actual fighting in Kasserine Pass is good, emphasizing both Rommel's failure to settle on a single tactical objective and the chaotic Allied efforts to stem the German breakthrough.  At this point, Zaloga probably should have started to wrap the volume up, since he had covered the actual Kasserine Pass fighting, but instead he chooses to cover the US role in the final stages of the Tunisian Campaign in the last third of the volume. Zaloga essentially ignores the Commonwealth forces in this last stage - they actually formed the bulk of Allied forces in Tunisia - and focuses only on the US II Corps, which presents an incomplete and rather unnecessary wrap-up to the campaign.  In particular, Zaloga points to Patton's success at El Guettar on 23 March 1943 as the \\"US Army's first victory over the Wehrmacht .\\"  However, Zaloga does not mention that the US 9th Infantry Division suffered over 3,000 casualties in the next week around El Guettar without achieving much and Major General Ward, commander of the 1st Armored Division, was wounded in close combat. If El Guettar was a victory, it didn't trouble the Germans much. Zaloga seems to want to avoid criticizing the US conduct in this campaign, but that is rather difficult and the idea that it was a victory is a stretch.try Regiment which was left isolated in the hills near Sidi Bou Zid - both battalions attempted to escape but about 1,800 US troops were captured in the process.  In a matter of one day, the Germans had eliminated virtually an entire US reinforced brigade, at slight cost to themselves. Furthermore, Zaloga makes little mention of the uneven performance of US troops in this first fight - with some fighting heroically but others running or refusing to fight. All in all, the US performance at Sidi Bou Zid was very poor - but this is not entirely evident in Zaloga's account.  <br /> <br /> The section on the actual fighting in Kasserine Pass is good, emphasizing both Rommel's failure to settle on a single tactical objective and the chaotic Allied efforts to stem the German breakthrough.  At this point, Zaloga probably should have started to wrap the volume up, since he had covered the actual Kasserine Pass fighting, but instead he chooses to cover the US role in the final stages of the Tunisian Campaign in the last third of the volume. Zaloga essentially ignores the Commonwealth forces in this last stage - they actually formed the bulk of Allied forces in Tunisia - and focuses only on the US II Corps, which presents an incomplete and rather unnecessary wrap-up to the campaign.  In particular, Zaloga points to Patton's success at El Guettar on 23 March 1943 as the \\"US Army's first victory over the Wehrmacht .\\"  However, Zaloga does not mention that the US 9th Infantry Division suffered over 3,000 casualties in the next week around El Guettar without achieving much and Major General Ward, commander of the 1st Armored Division, was wounded in close combat. If El Guettar was a victory, it didn't trouble the Germans much. Zaloga seems to want to avoid criticizing the US conduct in this campaign, but that is rather difficult and the idea that it was a victory is a stretch. <br />	2005-07-27
159070:US	52533596	R2OBEOSNRGI7MJ	1841768634	248676507	Khe Sanh 1967–68: Marines battle for Vietnam’s vital hilltop base (Campaign)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Tenacity on Both Sides, but to What end?	Khe Sanh 1967-68 by Gordon L. Rottman is the first title in the Osprey campaign series on the Vietnam to appear since Tet 1968 was written 15 years ago and as such, is a welcome detour from the plethora of titles on obscure subjects such as the War of the Roses. Rottman, a Vietnam veteran from that period himself, provides his usual high-level of detail and this volume on Khe Sanh is easily one of his best that he has written for Osprey. The campaign itself is still obscured by a certain level of mystery about Vietnamese intentions (was it a diversion or a serious attempt to storm the base?) and the siege ended with a degree of frustration for both sides. Although memorable for the US Marine Corps, the indecisive nature of the Khe Sanh campaign makes it difficult to study and evaluate the operations there but Rottman's narrative certainly makes a valued contribution.<br /><br /> Rottman starts with a rather lengthy 15-page background section on the campaign, which discusses the terrain and weather at length (usually a weakness in Osprey campaign series titles), as well as the strategic backdrop in 1968. He also provides a 7-page section on the Hill Battles in 1967 that preceded the actual siege. In the section on opposing plans, Rottman agrees with the widely-held theory that the North Vietnamese Army (NVA) operations around Khe Sanh Combat Base (KSCB) were part of a deception plan to confuse the US and South Vietnamese commanders about the upcoming Tet offensive, but correctly notes that, \\"the actual intentions of the NVA in northwest Quang Tri remain unknown.\\" I found it very interesting that Rottman never mentioned the NVA commander General Vo Nguyen Giap, whose name is often associated with planning the siege. Although the NVA seemed attracted to the notion of staging another \\"Dien Bien Phu\\" sort of siege around KSCB, Rottman notes that they never made an serious effort to cut off the base water supply or telephone lines, which lends credibility to the deception theory. US intentions in garrisoning KSCB were focused on the potential of using the base as a staging area for attacks on the nearby Ho Chi Minh Trail in Laos, but since this was primarily an Special Forces mission, it seems that the presence of 7,000 Marines to garrison a \\"support base\\" was overkill. Furthermore, as Rottman notes, US forces around KCSB were primarily oriented to the defense of the airfield, rather than conducting maneuver operations to disrupt NVA logistics. Indeed, General Westmoreland may have violated the \\"economy of force\\" principle in lavishing so much effort on a base that had limited practical use. Rottman also alludes to the high-level involvement of President Johnson in US operations around KSCB, but does not discuss the micro-management that other accounts have mentioned.<br /><br /> As usual, the graphic quality of this volume is quite high with four 2-D maps (Vietnam strategic situation, 1968; Quang Tri province and the DMZ; Khe Sanh Combat Base (KSCB); Operation Pegasus, 9 April 1968) and three 3-D maps (KSCB, early February 1968; Battle for the hills; the fall of Lang Vei SF camp). The battle scenes are some of the best that I have seen in Osprey (Fight for Hill 861A; the fight for the command post, Lang Vei; the \\"mightiest corporal in the world\\"). Rottman's order of battle for the US side is highly detailed, but the NVA order of battle still has many mysteries even after more than 30 years.<br /><br /> Rottman's campaign narrative is clean and crisp, with just the right balance between detail and scope. He mentions a number of US tactical improvisations to support KSCB, such as the \\"Super Gaggles\\" and \\"Micro Arc Lights.\\" Although the siege of KSCB consisted mostly of artillery duels and US air strikes, punctuated occasionally by NVA assaults on outlying hill positions, Rottman's narrative effectively conveys the tenacity of both sides. The campaign narrative concludes with Operation \\"Pegasus,\\" which was the relief of KSCB and the final US evacuation of the base. Of note, Rottman says in the section on the battlefield today that little remains of the base but this is not completely accurate, since SPOT imagery from a few years ago reveals that the outline of the airstrip looks exactly like it did in 1968 (plus current air maps of Vietnam still list an operational dirt strip there).B and the final US evacuation of the base. Of note, Rottman says in the section on the battlefield today that little remains of the base but this is not completely accurate, since SPOT imagery from a few years ago reveals that the outline of the airstrip looks exactly like it did in 1968 (plus current air maps of Vietnam still list an operational dirt strip there).  <br />	2005-07-19
160113:US	52533596	R3KS82U4D86NZ3	1841768219	443782731	Fort Eben Emael: The key to Hitler’s victory in the West (Fortress)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Great Description of a Bold Operation	Simon Dunstan's Fort Eben Emael is probably one of the best of Osprey's Fortress series volumes produced to date. Rather than just a discussion of dirt and concrete, Dunstan details both the Belgian quest to build an impregnable fortress to protect their eastern border and the German plans to seize the fort in a coup de main. The story of Fort Eben Emael is a dramatic episode in the history of warfare and Dunstan's narrative brings it vividly to life. There is also a subtle cautionary tale in these pages about how expensive weapons programs can be undone by a bold and determined enemy. Indeed, the dramatic capture of Fort Eben Emael by only 85 German paratroopers was, as Dunstan writes, \\"one of the most remarkable feats of arms in the history of warfare.\\"<br /><br /> Dunstan begins the volume with an 8-page introduction that traces the German threat to Belgium beginning before the First World War and lessons learned from the defense of the Liege forts in 1914. After the First World War, the Belgian Government decided to allocate substantial financial resources to construct a new series of forts around Liege and the Albert Canal to inhibit any future German invasion. The centerpiece of this new fortified line was Fort Eben Emael, which was built at the junction of the Meuse River and the Albert Canal in 1932-35. As Dunstan notes, the fort incorporated all the lessons learned to date about fortress warfare and was designed to resist attack by artillery, ground assault and aircraft. Dunstan describes the fort in great detail, with sections on blockhouses, gun emplacements, armored doors, the underground caserne, observation posts and the garrison. The text is complemented by numerous B/W photos of the fort in the 1940s as well as color photos of the fort as it looks today. The volume has two 2-D maps (the Sichelschnitt Plan of 1940; locations of Belgian forts around Liege) and six color plates (overhead view of Fort Eben Emael; a gun casemate; fields of fire of the fort; hollow charge explosives; the flight path to Eben Emael; glider landings and objectives), all of which assist the reader in understanding the Belgian plan of defense and the German attack plan. Dunstan also provides an appendix which lists all 85 German paratroopers involved in the assault by name, as well as their fate.<br /><br />  The middle part of the volume discusses the German Case Yellow plan for the offensive in the West and the necessity of seizing Fort Eben Emael quickly. Dunstan discusses the formation of Storm Group \\"Koch\\" to deal with the Belgian forts as well as the German secret weapons - hollow charges and gliders (probably one of the few occasions in military history where \\"secret weapons\\" lived up to initial expectations in combat). Readers should also note the involvement of Adolph Hitler in the tactical details of the operations. After outlining German preparations to seize the fort, Dunstan describes the woeful state of readiness at Fort Eben Emael. Dunstan writes that, \\"through a combination of manpower shortages, poor moral, inefficient communications and political interference, the strength of the most powerful fortress in the world was seriously undermined...\\" Although the Belgian High Command issued a war alert five hours before the German attack, many critical positions at Fort Eben Emael were still unmanned and ammunition not issued when the German gliders began to land on top of them. Dunstan notes that the Belgian anti-aircraft machineguns should have decimated the nine German gliders - but they lacked ammunition. Within 30 minutes, the German paratroopers boldly disabled the fort's artillery and observation posts and sat back to await relief. Despite a 10-1 numerical superiority, the Belgian garrison sat passively in their bunkers, completely surrendering the initiative to the Germans. However, the German plan almost came unglued when the destruction of a vital bridge delayed the relief force and the German paratroopers had to spend an anxious night atop the fort, awaiting a counterattack that never came. When the German relief force finally arrived, the demoralized garrison surrendered post haste.<br /><br /> Dunstan also contrasts the aggressive leadership style of the German paratroopers against the passive Belgian command style, which he cites as a major factor in the capture of the fort. When the German officer in command failed to reach the fort due to a glider accident, a senior German NCO assumed command and led the initial assault. Meanwhile, a Belgian artillery NCO failed to use a stairway to carry ammunition by hand to his guns when the electric shell hoist failed. Dunstan makes it clear that in evaluating the value or effectiveness of fortifications, that the relative efficiency of the garrison is a crucial determinant.spend an anxious night atop the fort, awaiting a counterattack that never came. When the German relief force finally arrived, the demoralized garrison surrendered post haste.  <br /> <br /> Dunstan also contrasts the aggressive leadership style of the German paratroopers against the passive Belgian command style, which he cites as a major factor in the capture of the fort. When the German officer in command failed to reach the fort due to a glider accident, a senior German NCO assumed command and led the initial assault. Meanwhile, a Belgian artillery NCO failed to use a stairway to carry ammunition by hand to his guns when the electric shell hoist failed. Dunstan makes it clear that in evaluating the value or effectiveness of fortifications, that the relative efficiency of the garrison is a crucial determinant.  <br />	2005-07-19
173639:US	52533596	R39OZY9BEDO1NF	1841768715	260028728	Vimy Ridge 1917: Byng’s Canadians Triumph at Arras (Campaign)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	The Canadian Triumph	Alexander Turner, a battalion-level officer in the British Army, delivers a solid summary of the Canadian Corps' impressive capture of Vimy Ridge in April 1917. Although Turner offers the capture of Vimy Ridge as refutation of claims that Allied generalship in the First World War was fatally flawed, his conclusions skim by the fact that Vimy Ridge was one of the very few attacks that enjoyed this kind of success at such low cost. Furthermore, the amount of mistakes made by the German commanders at Vimy Ridge seem to be beyond the norm for that army in the First World War. Statistically speaking, Vimy Ridge was something of an aberration and therefore difficult to use as a case study. In any event, Turner provides a detailed summary of the preparation and execution of this highly successful Allied offensive.<br /><br />  Turner begins with the usual section on the background to the campaign and opposing forces, which tends to digress a bit into a broader discussion of the tactical-technological problems facing First World War armies. At points, the author appears to want to paint a broader canvas &aacute; la John Keegan, rather than deliver a campaign study, but he settles down by mid-volume. The volume includes five 2-D maps (the German retirement to the Hindenburg Line; Arras and the Chemin des Dames Offensives; Locations of Allied Artillery units near Vimy Ridge; the Battle of Vimy Ridge; Attack on the \\"Pimple\\" and Bois-en-hache, 12 April 1917) and two 3-D maps (the Assault on Vimy Ridge in the 1st and 2nd Canadian Division areas and the fight for Hill 145 and \\"the Pimple\\"), as well as two excellent battle scenes (advance of the 2nd Canadian Division on 9 April 1917 and the defense of the Zwischenstellung). The maps are decent, but the dominant nature of Vimy Ridge is less apparent on the 3-D maps than a standard military 1:50,000-scale map of the area. Furthermore, the operational-level maps provide only vague details on the larger picture of the Arras offensive, without even showing the equally impressive advance of the British XVII Corps to the south of Vimy Ridge.<br /><br />  The author makers clear that both the German and Canadian troops at Vimy Ridge were high quality, but that the Canadian Corps had an overwhelming superiority in artillery, which was enhanced by careful planning. The author also disputes the idea that Vimy Ridge was an all-Canadian affair and points out the contributions of various British support units. Although the author briefly mentions the air superiority battles that preceded the Allied offensive, he offers few details once the attack commenced. He does spend a fair amount of time describing the extensive Allied mining and tunneling efforts, much of which did not pan out during the actual offensive.<br /><br />  While Turner notes faulty German dispositions and planning, he does not seem to appreciate that the Allied attack was assisted by fog and snow, which severely reduced German visibility. Instead, Turner emphasizes the muddy ground as an impediment to Canadian mobility. The magnitude of the Allied success at Vimy Ridge is not always apparent in Turner's account, which does not mention that this attack resulted in the furthest Allied advance in one day since the start of trench warfare. Turner's background in an infantry battalion aids him in painting the portrait of Canadian infantry struggling through the mud and shellfire, but there is little actual analysis of the battle's outcome. Overall, Vimy Ridge 1917 is a solid campaign summary, albeit one that could benefit from a bit sharper focus.ve, without even showing the equally impressive advance of the British XVII Corps to the south of Vimy Ridge.  <br /> <br />       The author makers clear that both the German and Canadian troops at Vimy Ridge were high quality, but that the Canadian Corps had an overwhelming superiority in artillery, which was enhanced by careful planning. The author also disputes the idea that Vimy Ridge was an all-Canadian affair and points out the contributions of various British support units. Although the author briefly mentions the air superiority battles that preceded the Allied offensive, he offers few details once the attack commenced. He does spend a fair amount of time describing the extensive Allied mining and tunneling efforts, much of which did not pan out during the actual offensive.  <br /> <br />        While Turner notes faulty German dispositions and planning, he does not seem to appreciate that the Allied attack was assisted by fog and snow, which severely reduced German visibility. Instead, Turner emphasizes the muddy ground as an impediment to Canadian mobility. The magnitude of the Allied success at Vimy Ridge is not always apparent in Turner's account, which does not mention that this attack resulted in the furthest Allied advance in one day since the start of trench warfare. Turner's background in an infantry battalion aids him in painting the portrait of Canadian infantry struggling through the mud and shellfire, but there is little actual analysis of the battle's outcome. Overall, Vimy Ridge 1917 is a solid campaign summary, albeit one that could benefit from a bit sharper focus. <br />	2005-07-09
196895:US	52533596	R2SHBBCULS6QOZ	1841766224	958566656	The American Expeditionary Forces in World War I (Battle Orders)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Solid, Professional and Informative Work	John F. Votaw, a retired US Army officer, has written an excellent organizational study of the American Expeditionary Force (AEF) in France in the First World War in Osprey's Battle Orders #6. This volume provides a wealth of detail information about the formation and composition of AEF units that make it a valuable adjunct to any of the recent, more in-depth studies of the US role in the First World War.<br /><br />  The volume begins with a focused \\"mission\\" analysis that discusses the role intended for the AEF, followed by interesting sections on the training of the AEF and its C3I. The author provides ten maps: the Western Front in 1917; AEF Divisional Training Areas; strategic features on the Lorraine Front; AEF services of supply; the Battle of Cantigny; initial plan of attack in the Aisne-Marne offensive; operations of the 1st and 2nd Divisions in the Aisne-Marne; attack on St. Mihiel; the Argonne offensive; and US positions at the armistice. However, the heart of the work are the numerous line and block charts that detail the composition of the AEF's units from army and corps level down to brigade and battalion level. The main focus is on AEF infantry and artillery units, although information is also provided on the tank corps, engineers, services of supply and air service. The author also provides detailed orders of battle for the 1st, 26th and 77th Infantry Divisions, as well as interesting sidebars on various US commanders. It is also apparent from the author's narrative, that significant friction existed in the AEF between the Regular Army and National Guard officers - an issue which never seems to go away.<br /><br />  In the section on tactics, the author examines a regimental attack at Cantigny (28 May 1918) and a divisional attack at Soissons (18 July 1918), as well as brief discussion of tank and aerial tactics. The section on weapons and equipment hits the highlights, but readers may prefer to refer to Osprey's Men-at-Arms titles on the AEF for more information on this particular aspect. Perhaps the only significant omission in this otherwise fine volume is the lack of any mention of the US Chemical Corps and the impact of chemical warfare; there is a Leavenworth Study available on the subject that would have been useful for this volume to draw upon and there is little doubt that the AEF put a major effort into dealing with the chemical threat. Overall, this volume on the AEF's composition is a useful addition to any First World War library.the AEF for more information on this particular aspect. Perhaps the only significant omission in this otherwise fine volume is the lack of any mention of the US Chemical Corps and the impact of chemical warfare; there is a Leavenworth Study available on the subject that would have been useful for this volume to draw upon and there is little doubt that the AEF put a major effort into dealing with the chemical threat. Overall, this volume on the AEF's composition is a useful addition to any First World War library. <br />	2005-06-21
212397:US	52533596	R1RH1HS1CCTUIY	0375400532	116719555	Intelligence in War: Knowledge of the Enemy from Napoleon to Al-Qaeda	Books	2	13	17	N	N	A Fundamentally Flawed Arguement	John Keegan's study, Intelligence in War, attempts to portray the value of intelligence as over-rated in military history. Up front, Keegan admits that he has no background in intelligence, but that he can use historical examples to \\"prove\\" his case. While Keegan has a great reputation as a military historian, it has been steadily chipped away by a series of books with reckless conclusions. In 1990's The Price of Admiralty, Keegan concluded that aircraft carriers were obsolete and that submarines were the new capital ships. In 2000's The First World War, Keegan suggested that if armies of that era had possessed tactical radios, that much of the carnage could have been avoided. Now, Keegan tells us - based upon an \\"analysis\\" of a half-dozen campaigns - that intelligence in war cannot be decisive.<br /><br /> Keegan's entire argument about the value of intelligence is fundamentally flawed. First, who ever said that intelligence IS the primary determinant in war? Keegan never bothers to tell the reader and it seems that he is wrestling with phantoms. Second, he states that even when intelligence analysts have gained vital answers about enemy intentions, as at Midway in 1942, that the decision ultimately rests with the trigger-pullers. He says warfare is a physical, not a mental, exercise. No kidding. In the absence of telekinetic means of warfare, this is a strawman and nonsensical argument. Obviously, intelligence doesn't kill enemy soldiers, but neither does logistics or communications. Would a commander want to fight without intelligence, logistics or communications? Keegan employs an intellectually dishonest approach by asking a question that can only have the answer he is seeking.<br /><br /> A volume of this kind would be a daunting task for someone with good credentials in the study of intelligence, but Keegan's credentials appear very weak. In addition to lack of direct experience he also candidly admits a lack of interest in intelligence matters, but he is not beyond flagrant name-dropping in the introduction. Keegan's brief meetings with the heads of MI6 and the CIA appear designed more to bolster his lack of credibility than to provide any meaningful content to this volume. It might have been more impressive if Keegan had spent time interviewing real intelligence analysts rather than just highlighting his grip-`n-grin encounters with high-level bureaucrats. Keegan also seems unduly influenced by spy novels and the works of John le Carre, who is mentioned aud nauseam. There are deep layers of ignorance and prejudice underpinning this book, which seriously detract from Keegan's ability to say anything useful on this subject.<br /><br /> Keegan's argument is also severely weakened by his unwillingness to define his terms. He continuously mixes the terms \\"intelligence\\" and \\"information,\\" which are not interchangeable. What does he mean by \\"intelligence in war\\"? Does he mean to examine the value of intelligence at all three levels (tactical, operational, and strategic) or only certain levels? Keegan erroneously depicts the intelligence cycle as a 5-phase rather than 4-phase process and he clearly does not understand the basic flow. Keegan fails to appreciate that asking the right question is almost as important as getting the right answer. Furthermore, Keegan falsely uses \\"real-time intelligence\\" as the gold standard for assessing the value of intelligence, but oftentimes this is not necessary, as long as the intelligence requirements are met before key decisions need to be made. Apparently, Keegan does not understand the difference between reconnaissance (one-time look) and surveillance (continuous look), either.<br /><br /> The campaign examples do not seem to support the author's argument very well. If Stonewall Jackson's map of the Shenandoah Valley was so important - as Keegan asserts - then its capture or compromise would have been a major intelligence coup for the Union. Does anyone think that Union commanders like Nathaniel Banks would have done any better in the campaign if he had gained Jackson's map? The 1862 Antietam campaign, with McClellan's acquisition of Lee's famous order, would have been a far better example of the impact of intelligence in that period. The chapter on Nelson and the Battle of the Nile is long and dull, and of little value to Keegan's argument. To claim - as Keegan does - that Nelson was a great intelligence analyst, is absurd. Nelson merely received sighting reports and led his fleet around willy-nilly. It appears that Nelson's movements were directed more by intuition than intelligence, which usually happens when commanders try to be their own intelligence officer. The best example, Crete 1941, does support Keegan's argument to some extent, but he exaggerates what British intelligence was actually saying about German plans; he makes it appear that Ultra handed the British a victory on a silver platter but that the troops on the ground fumbled the battle.  Taken together, Keegan's examples mesh too poorly to form a single, unified theory and lack the basis for any kind of general conclusions.<br /><br /> Although Keegan has relatively little to say about intelligence since 1945 (how he omits Korea, Vietnam and the Arab-Israeli Wars is beyond me), he appears unsettled by intelligence activities in the modern world in general, and the Mideast in particular. He suggests that what the Coalition needs most are not technical capabilities but good-old fashioned trained agents, like in Rudyard Kipling's \\"Kim.\\" While it is clear that the US needs better HUMINT capabilities for the Mideast, it is a mistake to suggest - as Keegan does - that technical collection capabilities do not play equally significant roles. In this volume, Keegan totters on the line between history and polemics and appears poised to plunge into the abyss.anders like Nathaniel Banks would have done any better in the campaign if he had gained Jackson's map? The 1862 Antietam campaign, with McClellan's acquisition of Lee's famous order, would have been a far better example of the impact of intelligence in that period. The chapter on Nelson and the Battle of the Nile is long and dull, and of little value to Keegan's argument. To claim - as Keegan does - that Nelson was a great intelligence analyst, is absurd. Nelson merely received sighting reports and led his fleet around willy-nilly. It appears that Nelson's movements were directed more by intuition than intelligence, which usually happens when commanders try to be their own intelligence officer. The best example, Crete 1941, does support Keegan's argument to some extent, but he exaggerates what British intelligence was actually saying about German plans; he makes it appear that Ultra handed the British a victory on a silver platter but that the troops on the ground fumbled the battle.  Taken together, Keegan's examples mesh too poorly to form a single, unified theory and lack the basis for any kind of general conclusions. <br /> <br /> Although Keegan has relatively little to say about intelligence since 1945 (how he omits Korea, Vietnam and the Arab-Israeli Wars is beyond me), he appears unsettled by intelligence activities in the modern world in general, and the Mideast in particular. He suggests that what the Coalition needs most are not technical capabilities but good-old fashioned trained agents, like in Rudyard Kipling's \\"Kim.\\" While it is clear that the US needs better HUMINT capabilities for the Mideast, it is a mistake to suggest - as Keegan does - that technical collection capabilities do not play equally significant roles. In this volume, Keegan totters on the line between history and polemics and appears poised to plunge into the abyss.  <br />	2005-06-07
238489:US	52533596	R2SFZDRSBGCBK2	0297846663	755729952	In the Name of Rome: The Men Who Won the Roman Empire	Books	5	41	42	N	N	A Sound Theory With An Interesting Narrative	Roman-era expert Adrian Goldsworthy has written an outstanding history of seven centuries of Roman generalship with his latest volume, In the Name of Rome: The Men Who Won the Roman Empire. This is Goldsworthy's first volume that is focused primarily on individuals, rather than organizational studies of the Roman Army, but he handles the material deftly and brings these characters into sharp focus as individuals, rather than as mere ciphers. Goldsworthy also attempts to divine general lessons about the nature of the Roman command style from the behavior of these generals, many of whom are not well-known to modern readers.<br /><br />  Each chapter in this volume details the career of one or two generals in a given period and the chapters are arranged sequentially, covering the period from the Second Punic War to the 6th Century A.D. Generally, Goldsworthy covers each of these Roman commanders in 25-30 pages as well as providing background material about contemporary conflicts and leaders. It is particularly impressive that Goldsworthy has been able to construct such a rich narrative on these generals, given the fragmentary and incomplete nature of the historical record. The chapters on Sertorius and Corbulo were particularly enlightening. Readers may also note that Goldsworthy's discussion of the Emperor Julian's generalship is far less complementary - although probably more accurate - than some modern accounts that attempt to rank him alongside Julius Caesar.<br /><br />  Goldsworthy disputes the oft-held opinion that Roman generals were military amateurs and instead depicts them as professional public figures who alternated between military, civic and political roles. One of the chief attributes of Roman leaders that Goldsworthy cites is Virtus, the steadfast ability to endure setbacks and to endure until final victory was achieved. Although Roman armies were often defeated, they were rarely demoralized and they usually recovered quickly. While only a few Roman generals were truly gifted soldiers - Scipio Africanus and Julius Caesar being exceptions - most learned how to employ the operational art and tactics that served Rome so well for centuries (unlike modern military leaders, who must constantly update their professional knowledge due to changes in technology and doctrine).<br /><br />  As Goldsworthy notes, Roman generals did not typically participate in close combat, as Greek generals did. Rather, the role of a Roman general on the battlefield was to \\"serve as a witness to his troops' acts of bravery\\" and to dispense rewards. Goldsworthy's theory is essentially that Roman troops were primarily motivated by the anticipation of rewards. It is a good theory and certainly one that tracks well with what we know about other armies in history, such as Napoleon's Grande Armee. Goldsworthy also discusses changes in the Roman Army over these centuries, including a greater degree of professionalism and the fact that soldiers became more loyal to their commanders (the one who rewarded them, anyway) than the state. Goldsworthy's hypothesis appears solid and the narrative supports it well. Although readers familiar with Caesar's commentaries, Tacitus and other Roman histories will find few new details here, the skill and clarity with which Goldsworthy weaves together all these accounts into a coherent narrative is truly commendable.kly. While only a few Roman generals were truly gifted soldiers - Scipio Africanus and Julius Caesar being exceptions - most learned how to employ the operational art and tactics that served Rome so well for centuries (unlike modern military leaders, who must constantly update their professional knowledge due to changes in technology and doctrine).  <br /> <br />        As Goldsworthy notes, Roman generals did not typically participate in close combat, as Greek generals did. Rather, the role of a Roman general on the battlefield was to \\"serve as a witness to his troops' acts of bravery\\" and to dispense rewards. Goldsworthy's theory is essentially that Roman troops were primarily motivated by the anticipation of rewards. It is a good theory and certainly one that tracks well with what we know about other armies in history, such as Napoleon's Grande Armee. Goldsworthy also discusses changes in the Roman Army over these centuries, including a greater degree of professionalism and the fact that soldiers became more loyal to their commanders (the one who rewarded them, anyway) than the state. Goldsworthy's hypothesis appears solid and the narrative supports it well. Although readers familiar with Caesar's commentaries, Tacitus and other Roman histories will find few new details here, the skill and clarity with which Goldsworthy weaves together all these accounts into a coherent narrative is truly commendable.  <br />	2005-05-16
253345:US	52533596	R22BXPVZF4YUAU	1841766267	624151152	Falaise 1944: Death of an army (Campaign)	Books	3	39	44	N	Y	Was the German Army in Normandy Destroyed?	In Osprey's Campaign #149, Falaise 1944: Death of an Army, veteran Osprey contributor Ken Ford (not Gordon Rottman, as mistakenly shown on jacket photo) continues his survey of the major phases of the 1944 Normandy campaign. As usual, Ford's narration is clear and succinct; he has done a superb job of synthesizing the various existing secondary sources on this subject - although it is less clear if the author has actually incorporated any primary research information. The Battle of Falaise was one of the more controversial phases of the battle of Normandy and Field Marshal Montgomery was forced to relieve a number of subordinates, and the failure to close the \\"Falaise pocket\\" led to recriminations in the Allied command.<br /><br /> The standard sections on the origins of the campaign, opposing commanders, plans and forces are informative and useful. However, there are two points in the opposing forces section that the author fails to address. First, at the start of the Normandy breakout battles in July, there were about 1.4 million Allied troops in Normandy versus fewer than 400,000 Germans, giving the Allies an overall 3-1 or better numerical superiority in personnel. In terms of tanks and artillery, the Allied superiority was even more pronounced. Second, Ford makes little or no effort to discuss the heterogeneous composition of the Commonwealth forces, particularly the Canadians and the Poles. On the face of it, the Canadian units tended to be larger but less experienced than the British units, and Ford doesn't mention that Canadian commanders were sometimes leery about being used as \\"cannon fodder\\" by the British (remember Dieppe and Hong Kong 1941?). As for the Poles, I had to cringe when Ford described the Falaise campaign as \\"their first battle.\\" Major General Maczek and his men were based on the original 10th Mechanized Brigade and had been killing Germans since 1939; these men were all veterans by 1944, even if the \\"Polish 1st Armored Division\\" had not fought previously as a unit.<br /><br />  Falaise 1944 includes five 2-D maps: the Allied frontline before the breakout battles; the breakout; Operation Bluecoat; forming the Falaise pocket; the German collapse. The three 3-D Maps are: Capture of Mount Pincon; Operation Totalise and Tractable; sealing the pocket. It seems to me that Osprey's 3-D maps from 5-6 years ago were more detailed than the new format, although the organization of the text has gotton better. The three battle scenes by Howard Gerrard are: American tanks and infantry overrunning a German 75mm anti-tank gun, July 1944; counterattack by SS `Das Reich' division against Poles on Mount Ormel; escaping troops from German 7th Army under attack from RAF typhoons.<br /><br />  Although Ford's narrative is sound, the vital question of why the pocket was not closed more promptly is explained only in general terms. American General Bradley did not request a boundary adjustment that might have allowed US troops to close the gap and Montgomery perhaps did not instill the Canadians with a sense of urgency in closing the pocket. These explanations certainly contain elements of truth, but do not necessarily explain what happened. Ford fails to mention that the operation was a \\"converging attack\\" where US, Canadian, British and Polish forces were to meet in the center - this is a very difficult mission for a Coalition to execute, based on differences in communications, doctrine and willingness to accept risks (a perfect scenario for fratricide). I think that the nature of the pocket and the importance of closing the gap - so clear on maps today - was less clear to tired commanders on smoke obscured battlefields in 1944. The Canadian commanders had seen numerous British attacks repulsed at great cost for little gain, and they chose to fight a methodical battle that was slow but sure.<br /><br />  The real significance of the Falaise campaign is the entire issue of whether or not the Allies were able to \\"destroy\\" the bulk of German forces in Normandy - the 5th Panzer and 7th Armies. Ford makes no effort to answer this question, but merely provides the standard Allied \\"guestimate\\" that about 90-115,000 German troops were caught in the Falaise pocket, of whom 10-15,000 were killed, 50,000 captured and the rest escaped. Based on these numbers, Ford concurs with the Allied assessment that the German forces in Normandy were more or less destroyed. However, if Ford had taken a look at some of the information now available on German casualties, he might be less certain of this conclusion. If the Allies trapped about 100,000 Germans in the Falaise pocket, that means that about 280,000 German troops then in the Normandy area were not in the pocket and that there were another 200,000 or so other Germans in the rest of France. Apparently, by the time the net started to close at Falaise only about 25% of the German troops in Normandy were trapped. Furthermore, it is also clear from German records that even most units trapped inside the pocket were able to save 40-50% of their personnel, which gave them a cadre to rebuild. German sources indicate that those armor units that escaped from Falaise still had about 80 tanks left operational after the battle, and while this is not a large number, Ford mentions that the Germans had held up the Canadian 2nd Corps for over a week with only 35 tanks. Ford makes no mention of the \\"September Miracle\\" but it is clear that the Germans were able to salvage enough from Normandy to stop the Allies on three weeks after Falaise on the German-Dutch borders. I'm sure the British 1st Airborne troops didn't think that the German 2nd SS Panzer Corps was \\"destroyed\\" when they met them at Arnhem. Falaise was an Allied victory, but it was not decisive.ulk of German forces in Normandy - the 5th Panzer and 7th Armies. Ford makes no effort to answer this question, but merely provides the standard Allied \\"guestimate\\" that about 90-115,000 German troops were caught in the Falaise pocket, of whom 10-15,000 were killed, 50,000 captured and the rest escaped. Based on these numbers, Ford concurs with the Allied assessment that the German forces in Normandy were more or less destroyed. However, if Ford had taken a look at some of the information now available on German casualties, he might be less certain of this conclusion. If the Allies trapped about 100,000 Germans in the Falaise pocket, that means that about 280,000 German troops then in the Normandy area were not in the pocket and that there were another 200,000 or so other Germans in the rest of France. Apparently, by the time the net started to close at Falaise only about 25% of the German troops in Normandy were trapped. Furthermore, it is also clear from German records that even most units trapped inside the pocket were able to save 40-50% of their personnel, which gave them a cadre to rebuild. German sources indicate that those armor units that escaped from Falaise still had about 80 tanks left operational after the battle, and while this is not a large number, Ford mentions that the Germans had held up the Canadian 2nd Corps for over a week with only 35 tanks. Ford makes no mention of the \\"September Miracle\\" but it is clear that the Germans were able to salvage enough from Normandy to stop the Allies on three weeks after Falaise on the German-Dutch borders. I'm sure the British 1st Airborne troops didn't think that the German 2nd SS Panzer Corps was \\"destroyed\\" when they met them at Arnhem. Falaise was an Allied victory, but it was not decisive.	2005-05-04
258089:US	52533596	R3S17S0KSUGE51	184176857X	585781653	Operation Barbarossa 1941 (2): Army Group North (Campaign) (v. 2)	Books	4	14	15	N	Y	A Solid Summary	Although there are numerous books already in existence on the Eastern Front in the Second World War, Robert Kirchubel's two volumes on Operation Barbarossa - the German invasion of the USSR in 1941 - are valuable summaries of current material on the subject. In this volume, Kirchubel covers the operations of the German Army Group North (AGN) in its efforts to capture Leningrad and link up with Finnish forces, in the period June-December 1941. Kirchubel's work is primarily a synthesis product rather than relying on much original research, but he is able to incorporate some of the better sources available.<br /><br /> Operational Barbarossa 1941: Army Group North follows the standard Osprey campaign series format, with initial sections on the origins of the campaign, opposing leaders, opposing plans and opposing forces, as well as a campaign chronology. These sections are well written and informative, although the order of battle is rather basic (no mention of reinforcements) and lists Soviet air units, but not German Luftwaffe units. As usual, the quality of maps and color graphics is one of the main selling points for the Osprey campaign series and Operational Barbarossa 1941: Army Group North is quite successful in this area. The author provides seven 2-D maps, four of which deal with operations in Finland: frontier battles; Operation Platinfuchs (drive on Murmansk); Operation Polarfuchs; Finnish attacks in Karelia; Tikhvin/Volkhov; strategic overview Finland; strategic overview, Army Group North. There are three 3-D Maps: Soviet attacks around Staraya Russa, August 1941; German assaults on Baltic Islands, September 1941; Battles on the Luga River Line and approaches to Leningrad, August-September 1941. There were probably too many maps on Finnish operations in this volume and not enough on the actual operations of Army Group North itself. I found it difficult to follow German operations in July, since the only map that covers this is a tiny strategic overview at the end of volume. No map depicted in detail the final German lines around Leningrad, which would have been interesting (you just can't see the Duderof Heights on the 3-D map, which must be about 1:1,000,000 scale). Just as an aside, the Germans normally depicted their operations on 1:300,000 scale maps and it would be nice if Osprey could keep that in mind.<br /><br /> The color battle scenes are also very good: the Soviet 8th Army attempting to breakthrough the LVI Panzer Corps at the Dunaburg bridgehead, 28 June; German 269th Infantry Division using captured anti-tank guns to destroy Soviet T-34 tanks, July 1941; Hans Ulrich Rudel sinks the battleship Marat at Kronshtadt, 21 September 1941. However, Kirchubel claims that Germans were using captured ZIS-3 76.2mm anti-tank guns in July 1941, which is very doubtful, since that weapon only went into very limited production in July 1941. Kirchubel appears to be confusing the ZIS-3 with the 76.2mm F-22 USV divisional gun or the 57mm ZIS-2.<br /><br /> Kirchubel's campaign narrative is fair, but it tends to wander. He starts out well on the frontier battles in June 1941, then gets sidetracked into about ten pages on the Finns, then falls into a lengthy discussion about the arguments between Hitler and the OKH army staff about objectives in the Soviet Union. By the time he gets back to what Army Group North was doing, particularly in July-August, it seems like a bit of an afterthought. We know a lot today about the arguments in the Fuhrer's headquarters thanks to the diaries of Generals Halder and Warlimont, but that doesn't mean that they are always that relevant; officers like Halder tended to exaggerate their impact because they were competing for control of the Wehrmacht with Hitler. Fact is, they lost that control before the war and their role steadily diminished, no matter what their diaries say. Kirchubel's coverage of the Finns and the OKH policy debates make for a more complete picture, but given the size restraints of an Osprey volume they probable take away more than they add.<br /><br /> Kirchubel does add many good details into his volume about armor operations, air operations, supply issues and terrain - it is clear that he has studied the existing secondary sources carefully (particularly David M. Glantz). I do wish that Kirchubel had made some mention of Army Group North's casualties and the Soviet Northwest Front's casualties in this period - the data is available. The author concludes that the Germans failed to take Leningrad because Field Marshal von Leeb, Army Group North's commander, \\"conducted a flawed campaign\\" in that he \\"refused to accept the risks essential to Blitzkrieg success\\" and that he \\"did not focus on a single decisive point.\\" These conclusions appear correct, in that AGN spread its forces too thinly and lost the initiative in July. However, it is hard to agree with Kirchubel's opinion that the Germans had \\"gained some valuable tactical lessons from the 1940 Western campaign, but learned all the wrong operational and strategic ones.\\" The Wehrmacht demonstrated time and again in 1941 that they were experts at operational maneuver (it was intelligence and logistics where they were awful), particularly against the cannon-fodder Soviet armies of 1941. As for strategy, Kirchubel never asks or answers, \\"how would Germany have benefited from capturing Leningrad in 1941 as opposed to merely blockading it, as they did?\\" Hitler ordered the city blockaded, not seized, and that is precisely what AGN accomplished. Since AGN was able to impose a 900-day siege on Leningrad, I'm not sure that their campaign was a failure in 1941 - they did everything they were ordered to do but link up with the Finns, and it does not appear that a link-up would have been strategically useful had it occurred. The \\"so what\\" test is a critical determinant for historical relevancy and it does not appear that von Leeb's \\"flawed campaign\\" of 1941 contributed in any large measure to the Wehrmacht's ultimate defeat in the USSR.e restraints of an Osprey volume they probable take away more than they add. <br /> <br /> Kirchubel does add many good details into his volume about armor operations, air operations, supply issues and terrain - it is clear that he has studied the existing secondary sources carefully (particularly David M. Glantz). I do wish that Kirchubel had made some mention of Army Group North's casualties and the Soviet Northwest Front's casualties in this period - the data is available. The author concludes that the Germans failed to take Leningrad because Field Marshal von Leeb, Army Group North's commander, \\"conducted a flawed campaign\\" in that he \\"refused to accept the risks essential to Blitzkrieg success\\" and that he \\"did not focus on a single decisive point.\\" These conclusions appear correct, in that AGN spread its forces too thinly and lost the initiative in July. However, it is hard to agree with Kirchubel's opinion that the Germans had \\"gained some valuable tactical lessons from the 1940 Western campaign, but learned all the wrong operational and strategic ones.\\" The Wehrmacht demonstrated time and again in 1941 that they were experts at operational maneuver (it was intelligence and logistics where they were awful), particularly against the cannon-fodder Soviet armies of 1941. As for strategy, Kirchubel never asks or answers, \\"how would Germany have benefited from capturing Leningrad in 1941 as opposed to merely blockading it, as they did?\\" Hitler ordered the city blockaded, not seized, and that is precisely what AGN accomplished. Since AGN was able to impose a 900-day siege on Leningrad, I'm not sure that their campaign was a failure in 1941 - they did everything they were ordered to do but link up with the Finns, and it does not appear that a link-up would have been strategically useful had it occurred. The \\"so what\\" test is a critical determinant for historical relevancy and it does not appear that von Leeb's \\"flawed campaign\\" of 1941 contributed in any large measure to the Wehrmacht's ultimate defeat in the USSR.	2005-04-30
298647:US	52533596	R1H2ULSBFR7J6D	1841767980	446527778	US Tank and Tank Destroyer Battalions in the ETO 1944–45 (Battle Orders)	Books	5	24	26	N	Y	Another Great Volume From Zaloga	Steven J. Zaloga's volume on US Tank Battalions and Tank Destroyer Battalions in the ETO in 1944-45 in Osprey's Battle Order series is filled to the brim with useful data and incisive comment. Zaloga's previous volume in this series covered US armored divisions and this volume covers the remaining spectrum of separate tank battalions and tank destroyer (TD) battalions. Despite the wealth of information already available on this subject, Zaloga still manages to unearth rare and interesting details, presenting them in highly lucid fashion.<br /><br /> Zaloga begins the volume with an extensive discussion of the combat missions of the separate tank battalions and the TD battalions. Essentially, both units were plagued by doctrinal problems and faulty command decisions from the start. The separate tank battalions were formed to provide direct support to infantry units but the US Army decided not to invest in a heavy infantry tank (like the British Churchill) that could stand up to anti-tank fire. Zaloga notes that the US Army did successfully debut a heavy-armor assault tank version of the Sherman late in the war, but that few were produced. The TD battalions were plagued by a faulty doctrine that just never worked, and the units were usually used for supporting infantry units. Zaloga also pulls no punches in pointing the finger at Major General Leslie McNair, Army Ground Forces commander, as responsible for a string of costly mistakes. McNair opposed attaching separate tank battalions on a permanent basis to infantry divisions, favored retaining light tanks after it was clear that they couldn't compete on the battlefield and championed towed over self-propelled TD units.<br /><br /> Zaloga's incisive narrative is supported by six excellent maps that depict armor in various missions: tanks in the first wave on Omaha Beach; tanks landing in Operation Dragoon; bocage-busting in Operation Cobra; attack on a fortified area - Fort Driant; armor in defense in the Ardennes; armor in river-crossing - Roer River. The author also provides four full-page organization charts for the tank battalion, light tank battalion, towed and SP TD battalions. In an appendix, Zaloga provides a capsule summary of each tank and TD battalion that served in the ETO.<br /><br /> The author also touches on a number of obscure but interesting topics, such as the searchlight-equipped \\"Leaflet tanks\\" - although six battalions were deployed in Europe, the weapon was so secret that even army-level commanders were unaware of their existence. However, the Leaflet tanks were used to protect the Meuse River crossings during the Battle of the Bulge. Zaloga also mentions the M22 airborne tank and the 28th Tank Battalion - the only US armored airborne battalion in the Second World War. Additionally, Zaloga discusses how tank and TD units were used in the indirect fire role. As usual, Zaloga highlights technical issues that are often ignored by other authors and he also does a fine job analyzing the impact of doctrinal decisions in combat. An excellent volume.nes; armor in river-crossing - Roer River. The author also provides four full-page organization charts for the tank battalion, light tank battalion, towed and SP TD battalions. In an appendix, Zaloga provides a capsule summary of each tank and TD battalion that served in the ETO. <br /> <br /> The author also touches on a number of obscure but interesting topics, such as the searchlight-equipped \\"Leaflet tanks\\" - although six battalions were deployed in Europe, the weapon was so secret that even army-level commanders were unaware of their existence. However, the Leaflet tanks were used to protect the Meuse River crossings during the Battle of the Bulge. Zaloga also mentions the M22 airborne tank and the 28th Tank Battalion - the only US armored airborne battalion in the Second World War. Additionally, Zaloga discusses how tank and TD units were used in the indirect fire role. As usual, Zaloga highlights technical issues that are often ignored by other authors and he also does a fine job analyzing the impact of doctrinal decisions in combat. An excellent volume. <br />	2005-03-28
311209:US	52533596	R2LUD04RCCTOAK	1841768448	601044852	Crete 1941: Germany’s lightning airborne assault (Campaign)	Books	3	11	13	N	Y	Good Maps, Synthesis Narrative	Osprey's Campaign #147, Crete 1941 by Peter D. Antill, summarizes the first division-size airborne operation in the Second World War. Operation \\"Mercury\\" - the German airborne attack on Crete - succeeded in defeating the Allied garrison and capturing the island, but at the cost of crippling losses. The German attack on Crete is also interesting for study because British access to German plans via Ultra code-breaking gave the Allies advance-warning of the attack. The author does a creditable job laying out these issues in the volume and his campaign narrative is sound, which should provide a decent introduction to this campaign for readers new to this campaign. However, with readers with more background on the Second World War or the Crete campaign, this volume appears as a synthesis product of other secondary sources and doesn't offer much new material, except for the detailed and colorful maps.<br /><br /> The author provides a rather lengthy introduction in which he appears to misrepresent German strategy in 1941. According to the author, Hitler decided to opt for a peripheral strategy\\" after the invasion of Britain was cancelled in September 1941, with \\"the aim of bringing Britain to the negotiating table.\\" While Hitler did hope for a negotiated settlement with Britain, the planning documentation available today clearly shows that he was focused on destroying the USSR before embarking on \\"peripheral missions.\\" Furthermore, Hitler's strategic planning was heavily based on gaining access to vital economic resources; the oil and minerals that Germany needed were in the USSR, not in the Mediterranean area. Antill's section on opposing commanders is fairly comprehensive, but the two best opening sections are opposing forces and opposing plans. Antill makes the crucial point that, \\"German intelligence badly underestimated the Allied strength on the island,\\" presuming that there were only 10,000 Commonwealth troops instead of the actual 32,000. This failure of German intelligence analysis led to a flawed airborne plan, with the paratroops scattered too thinly to seize their objectives. In fact, it's not clear to me that General Student even identified a main effort in the initial plan; Maleme airfield only became the main effort once all the other attacks failed to seize their objectives. Antill does not mention that the staff of the German 7FJ Division was fairly junior and inexperienced, conducting a novel operation of unprecedented scale, which probably also contributed to the heavy losses.<br /><br /> The author's order of battle is decent, but he leaves out units like the 5th Company/31st Panzer that were shipped to Crete (he only mentions the 5th Panzer Division without identifying sub-units). The maps in the volume are excellent. The six 2-D maps are: the Balkans Campaign, April 1941; Crete; Souda Bay and Prison Valley; Rethymnon; Heraklion; and the German advance, 27-31 May. The 3-D maps are: Maleme, 20-22 May; the German advance on Platanias, 23 May; and the German advance on Galatos, 24-26 May. The three color battle scenes are: the Genz Glider detachment landing southwest of Canea, 20 May; the 2nd Battalion, 1st FJ landing west of Heraklion airfield, 20 May; and the Australian counterattack against the 1/141st Mountain Regiment, 27 May. The author probably should have provided a 2-D map detailing the air-sea actions around Crete, including all the RN warships sunk.  As for the photographs in this volume, they are rather mundane, with far too many photos of ANZAC troops in transit camps or being evacuated.<br /><br /> The author's campaign narrative itself is crisp and clean, and he does a good job pointing out both the German mistakes (dropping single battalions, trying to seize too many objectives simultaneously) and the Allied mistakes (focused more on coast defense, failure to disable airfields, slowness to recognize German main effort and organize counterattack).  The author also does an excellent job coordinating his narrative with the maps, enabling the reader to easily follow the flow of combat. He also adds interesting items, like the Germans surprising the Allies by introducing recoilless guns. The Battle of Crete essentially came down to the fight for Maleme airfield, and while Antill does a decent job outlining the course of fighting there, I'm not sure he strips away much of the uncertainty as to how and why the British defenders - who outnumbered the paratroopers - failed to hold the airfield. Antill runs down the standard reasons given - poor communications, fog of war, wounded leaders - but I'm not sure that this rote recitation really answers why the battle was won or lost.<br /><br /> I was also hoping that the author would incorporate some fresh research, particularly about German casualties, but he seems content to stick with the standard (and not very informative) numbers seen in other secondary sources. In sum, Peter Antill's Crete 1941 is a decent first effort, but lacks the original research or incisive analysis needed to make this more than a synthesis product.oordinating his narrative with the maps, enabling the reader to easily follow the flow of combat. He also adds interesting items, like the Germans surprising the Allies by introducing recoilless guns. The Battle of Crete essentially came down to the fight for Maleme airfield, and while Antill does a decent job outlining the course of fighting there, I'm not sure he strips away much of the uncertainty as to how and why the British defenders - who outnumbered the paratroopers - failed to hold the airfield. Antill runs down the standard reasons given - poor communications, fog of war, wounded leaders - but I'm not sure that this rote recitation really answers why the battle was won or lost. <br /> <br /> I was also hoping that the author would incorporate some fresh research, particularly about German casualties, but he seems content to stick with the standard (and not very informative) numbers seen in other secondary sources. In sum, Peter Antill's Crete 1941 is a decent first effort, but lacks the original research or incisive analysis needed to make this more than a synthesis product.  <br />	2005-03-17
311966:US	52533596	RXXTFJVRCIE54	1841768421	693024944	World War II Infantry Anti-Tank Tactics (Elite)	Books	4	62	63	N	Y	Decent Overview of WW2 AT Tactics and Weapons	In Osprey's Elite #124, World War II Infantry Anti-Tank Tactics, military specialist Gordon L. Rottman details the gamut of anti-tank weapons and tactics in the Second World War. This volume is an excellent introduction to anti-tank theory and practice, with a good overview of the basic battalion-level weapons available. In this volume, Rottman focuses only on those AT weapons normally available at the regiment or lower level during 1939-45, and only in the US, British, German, Russian and Japanese armies.<br /><br /> Rottman begins the volume with background information on the tank threat in that period and tank vulnerabilities, followed by a section that outlines the basic AT weapon types available (ranging from hand grenades and mines to light/medium AT guns). The author then discusses the evolution of AT tactics during the Second World War, followed by about 30 pages that detail specific AT weapons and tactics of the US, the UK, Germany, the USSR and Japan. The color plates in the volume are: tank vulnerabilities (a US infantryman attacking a Pz IV with a satchel charge); a generic company AT defense; a German tank-hunting team in 1939-40; a US Army AT ambush in 1944-45; a British AT roadblock in 1943-44; Soviet AT defenses in built-up areas, 1944; a German panzer kampfgruppe in covering positions, 1944-45; and a Japanese `self-sacrifice' attack, 1945.<br /><br /> Rottman's summary of the AT tactics of the Second World War is good, although he makes little effort to evaluate which tactics were more effective than others. Typically, Rottman prefers to present a mass of data and then leave it to the reader to draw his own conclusions. Although the size constraints of this format prevent comprehensive treatment, I wish that Rottman had made at least brief mention of the failed AT efforts of the French, Polish and Italian armies.<br /><br /> As a former tanker, I found that Rottman probably undervalued the role of obstacles and expedient weapons. While Rottman mentions that thick concentrations of barbed wire could inhibit tank movement, my own experience indicates that several coils of concertina can be very effective in blocking tanks (however, white phosphorus rounds will melt concertina wire); any tanker foolish enough to attempt plowing through a thick wire obstacle will quickly find it wrapped around his final drive and the transmission burnt-out. Rottman didn't mention hasty obstacles much, but some - such as the log crib - can be very effective in stopping or canalizing armor, particularly in wooded areas.  Destroyed vehicles or very large stones can also prove excellent hasty AT obstacles; I once saw a tank that had hit a large rock at night and shorn off an entire road wheel arm (for that matter, Rottman doesn't really differentiate between night and day AT tactics, but it does make a huge difference for the infantry). Rottman also tends to dismiss expedient AT tactics as ineffective, but the Germans destroyed a lot of T-34s without proper AT weapons. I once saw a tank immobilized by a T-shirt shoved into its engine air intake (which drained the battery in less than 5 minutes), and in dense terrain cunning infantry can get tanks to throw track with something as simple as a 12\\" thick log. On the flip side of the coin, having served in infantry units against tanks, it is often critical in AT tactics that the infantry have either a height advantage (which allows you to disengage without being seen) or an obstacle between you and the tanks.<br /><br />  Although Rottman spends considerable effort to discuss tank vulnerabilities, it is primarily in terms of the tank itself. However, the relative effectiveness of various AT tactics really comes down to the skill and experience of the tank's crew. \\"Good tankers\\" do not get separated from their `wing' tanks or their infantry, they use covered terrain as much as possible for protection, and they have well-versed actions on contact. \\"Bad tankers\\" are far easier to pick off because they get separated from their supporting units (or they bunch up), they drive \\"hey-diddle-diddle, straight-down-the-middle\\" right into AT ambushes and their first action on contact is to stop in the kill zone. Hunting individual tanks is far different from stopping a tank platoon or company, but Rottman's narrative really only focuses on limited tank threats. The most successful AT tactics are those that recognizes the weakness or vulnerabilities of their opponents, and then ruthlessly take advantage of them.pick off because they get separated from their supporting units (or they bunch up), they drive \\"hey-diddle-diddle, straight-down-the-middle\\" right into AT ambushes and their first action on contact is to stop in the kill zone. Hunting individual tanks is far different from stopping a tank platoon or company, but Rottman's narrative really only focuses on limited tank threats. The most successful AT tactics are those that recognizes the weakness or vulnerabilities of their opponents, and then ruthlessly take advantage of them.  <br /> <br />	2005-03-17
313390:US	52533596	R3AXUJLB4BI11S	1841767891	695196181	Japanese Army in World War II: Conquest of the Pacific 1941–42 (Battle Orders)	Books	4	16	17	N	Y	A Cornucopia of Information	After completing his three-volume effort on US marine Corps operations in the Pacific in the Second World War, military specialist author Gordon L. Rottman has turned his attention to the first of several volumes for Osprey covering Japanese forces in the Pacific War. Osprey's Battle Orders #9, Japanese Army in World War II: Conquest of the Pacific covers the Philippine, Dutch East Indies, New Guinea, Wake, Guam and Rabaul invasions; subsequent volumes will cover Japanese operations in other theaters. As usual with Rottman, this volume is jam-packed with useful military data, including numerous orders of battle and unit organization charts. This volume and its companion volumes are going to be the standard references on the forces that fought the Pacific War for many years to come.<br /><br /> Rottman begins the volume with a short section detailing the background of Japan's Imperial Army, followed by sections on doctrine, unit organization, tactics, weapons and C3I. The final section summarizes the main combat operations of the Southern Army in the period December 1941 - July 1942. One of the most attractive features of this volume is the 16 full-color maps: Southern Army's pre-invasion deployment, December 1941; the Southern operations plan; Japanese landings at Lae, New Guinea, 8 March 1942; the Port Moresby invasion plan; the main Philippine landings; Luzon operations; the Lingayen Bay landing; Bataan operations, Phase I and II; the assault on Corregidor; Borneo operations; Timor operations; Sumatra operations; Java operations; South sea operations, January - July 1942; and the Battle for the Kokoda Trail. Normally, most histories combine this plethora of operations into one or two over-crowded maps, but Rottman gives each operational phase its own map, much to the benefit of students of these campaigns.<br /><br /> Rottman's grasp of military detail is magnificent, with a veritable cornucopia of information which should delight most military readers. However, many civilian readers may find the dry litany of facts tedious and over-whelming at times. As usual, Rottman eschews personal accounts that might have added some humanity to his narrative. Aside from naming detachment commanders, only a handful of Japanese commanders are mentioned in this volume - and then primarily in passing in the orders of battle. The Japanese Army that Rottman presents is a collection of unit identifications, without personality or character. Without this human content, the Japanese Army as presented here appear more as ciphers than modern-day samurai. Nevertheless, the level of detail provided in this volume make it an essential reference for anyone attempting a serious study of the Pacific War.any civilian readers may find the dry litany of facts tedious and over-whelming at times. As usual, Rottman eschews personal accounts that might have added some humanity to his narrative. Aside from naming detachment commanders, only a handful of Japanese commanders are mentioned in this volume - and then primarily in passing in the orders of battle. The Japanese Army that Rottman presents is a collection of unit identifications, without personality or character. Without this human content, the Japanese Army as presented here appear more as ciphers than modern-day samurai. Nevertheless, the level of detail provided in this volume make it an essential reference for anyone attempting a serious study of the Pacific War.	2005-03-16
319267:US	52533596	R3VSX4HR24ZUQS	1841767913	517193162	V-1 Flying Bomb 1942–52: Hitler’s infamous “doodlebug” (New Vanguard)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	A Good Summary but Suspect Conclusion	Military technical expert Stephen J. Zaloga delivers another excellent summary of a major weapons program in Osprey's New Vanguard #106, V-1 Flying Bomb 1942-52.  As usual, Zaloga delivers the commonly known facts with incisive comments, while also offering insights into the lesser-known facets of the program. While the German V-1 rocket program has certainly received considerable attention from other writers, few readers will be aware that US, French and Soviets were all flying copies of the weapons after the war. On the other hand, Zaloga's conclusion that the V-1 program was not only a failure but one that actually hurt the German war effort appears based upon either specious information or faulty analysis. Nevertheless, Zaloga's volume on the V-1 is well worth having since there is a considerable amount of information packed into these pages.<br /><br /> Zaloga begins with a background section on the antecedents of the V-1 program and the early prototype tests. The author makes interesting observations about how the German Luftwaffe felt that it needed a rocket program of its own to compete with the Army's V-2 program, and the V-1 fit the bill of quickly fielding a competitor (file this under bureaucratic motivations for weapons programs). The rocket motor technology used in the V-1 was much simpler than that used in the V-2, although even by 1944 the pulse-jet technology of the V-1 was approaching a dead-end (the engine virtually shook itself to death by the end of its short flight of only 130 miles). On the other hand, the V-1 was ready to deploy by late 1943 but Allied bombing and German mismanagement delayed its combat debut until June 1944. Nagging technical problems with the gyroscopes and fuel-pressure system limited the V-1s performance further, and also made it easier for the rocket to be shot down by aircraft.  Zaloga notes that British intelligence had a pretty good read on the V-1 program and bombed the deployment sites and factories mercilessly, but this only delayed the onset of the robot bombardment of London.  Zaloga details the ground launches from France and the Low Countries, as well as the air-launches over the North Sea. The author also provides tables detailing V-1 production by month, the Crossbow bombing campaign, the organization of the V-1 launch units as well as diagrams of launch sites and the rocket in various configurations.<br /><br /> Zaloga notes that the V-1 cost about $2,000 each, compared with about $50,000 for a V-2 and $100,000 for a medium bomber.  Over 30,000 V-1s were built and they killed over 10,000 people, including about 1,000 Allied military personnel. Zaloga says, \\"in retrospect, the V-1 was a far more cost effective weapon than the V-2 in terms of the much smaller cost of developing, manufacturing, and employing the missile.\\" However, Zaloga believes that the V-1 program hurt the German war effort, saying \\"the warheads of the V-weapons consumed the equivalent of half the total explosive consumption of the entire Wehrmacht in the critical months of July, August and September 1944 ...at a time when the fate of the Third Reich was in the balance, the V-weapons were wasting more than half of the available explosives to kill a thousand British and Belgian civilians a month.\\" Apparently, Zaloga is suggesting that the 7,700 tons of high explosive that went into producing warheads for the V-1s in this 3-month period so depleted Germany of critical munitions that the war was lost. This assertion is ridiculous on many levels (and very atypical of the normally very precise Zaloga), starting with the basic fact that Germany was manufacturing over 100,000 tons of munitions per month in this period, so the V-1 program used no more than 2-3% of the German output of explosives, not 50%. In fact, German explosives production fell in late 1944 because Allied bomber raids on the synthetic fuel plants, which led to a reduction in the output of nitrogen for explosives (German agriculture was alsousing 50% of the nitrogen production in 1944, which could have gone for explosives). The Allied post-war strategic bombing survey clearly spells this linkage out and Zaloga's assertion that it was the V-1 program that was the culprit for the ammunition shortage is specious.<br /><br /> The V-1 program needs to be put in strategic perspective but Zaloga does not do this. While British bomber raids on Berlin often lost 30-40 bombers and over 300 aircrew to kill a few hundred German civilians, the V-1s accomplished strategic bombardment without risking German lives, at less cost and with at least as much accuracy as British night raids achieved (which often missed Berlin entirely). If killing civilians was the goal, the V-1s did it better than the very expensive British Bomber Command. However, the V-1 had a strategic effect that Zaloga does not mention - the bombardment of London so angered Churchill that Eisenhower was pressured to let Montgomery clear out the V-1 launch sites in London. Thus, the V-1 campaign led to the disastrous Operation Market-Garden and the virtual destruction of the British 1st Airborne Division - not bad for $60,000 worth of rockets. Without the V-1 program, there would have been much less justification for Monty's drive into Holland and Patton might have gotten enough supplies (and the airborne troops) to crack the West wall in 1944.  Thus, it is quite possible that the V-1 program actually prolonged the war, albeit only for a few months.s also using 50% of the nitrogen production in 1944, which could have gone for explosives). The Allied post-war strategic bombing survey clearly spells this linkage out and Zaloga's assertion that it was the V-1 program that was the culprit for the ammunition shortage is specious.    <br /> <br /> The V-1 program needs to be put in strategic perspective but Zaloga does not do this. While British bomber raids on Berlin often lost 30-40 bombers and over 300 aircrew to kill a few hundred German civilians, the V-1s accomplished strategic bombardment without risking German lives, at less cost and with at least as much accuracy as British night raids achieved (which often missed Berlin entirely). If killing civilians was the goal, the V-1s did it better than the very expensive British Bomber Command. However, the V-1 had a strategic effect that Zaloga does not mention - the bombardment of London so angered Churchill that Eisenhower was pressured to let Montgomery clear out the V-1 launch sites in London. Thus, the V-1 campaign led to the disastrous Operation Market-Garden and the virtual destruction of the British 1st Airborne Division - not bad for $60,000 worth of rockets. Without the V-1 program, there would have been much less justification for Monty's drive into Holland and Patton might have gotten enough supplies (and the airborne troops) to crack the West wall in 1944.  Thus, it is quite possible that the V-1 program actually prolonged the war, albeit only for a few months.  <br />	2005-03-11
334051:US	52533596	RKS22Q4UF5DYL	1841767875	71289819	Iranian F-14 Tomcat Units in Combat (Combat Aircraft)	Books	2	32	57	N	N	Is it Fact, Fantasy or Disinformation?	Writing about a secretive institution like the Islamic Republic of Iran's Air Force (IRIAF) and the performance of its American-built F-14 fighters in the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq War would probably be considered a futile exercise by most authors without access to classified information. Certainly analyzing the contradictory and often ridiculous military press releases by the Iranian and Iraqi Governments or ill-informed media accounts at that time would provide little useful material. However, aviation enthusiasts Tom Cooper and Farzad Bishop, armed with \\"excellent contacts in Iran\\" and with former Iranian fighter pilots abroad, feel that they have the necessary information to write an accurate history of the Iranian F-14s in the 1980-88 War. At first glance, this volume in Osprey's Combat Aircraft series seems pretty exciting, given the paucity of information upon this still-relevant aircraft. However, readers who reflect upon the lack of bona fide sources provided and the difficulty in extracting military information from a repressive society like Iran may walk away with the conclusion that something is pretty fishy here.<br /><br />  For some reason, the authors leave the most telling statement until the last few pages: \\"It remains unclear exactly how many air-to-air kills were scored by IRIAF [Iran Air Force] F-14s between 7 September 1980 and 7 July 1988, as Air Force records were repeatedly tampered with during and after the war, mainly for political, religious or personal reasons. This has led to considerable confusion.\\"  The authors of this volume claim that Iranian F-14s had 159 \\"confirmed kills\\" during the Iran-Iraq War, but admits that a post-war conference in Tehran said that the F-14s only scored 24 \\"confirmed kills\\" with 6 other \\"probables.\\" The authors also admit that other sources suggest numbers somewhere in between 30 and 150, which is a pretty huge range of discrepancy. The authors provide an appendix with a breakdown of all \\"confirmed\\" Iranian F-14 kills; according to this table, Iranian F-14s shot down 50 of Iraq's 285 fighters (17.5%) in the first three months of the war, for no loss of their own. The authors also claim that one Iranian F-14 shot down four Iraqi fighters with a single Phoenix missile! Sorry, if you want to try and make claims like that, you had better have more than \\"Major Ali's word on it.\\" These are the same guys who lie to the world every day about their nuclear program, isn't it?<br /><br /> Throughout the volume, the authors make the repeated claim that the US military was in a state of denial about the true performance of Iranian F-14 fighters, but that they have the unvarnished truth from some unnamed, former Iranian pilots, somewhere, sometime. I kept wondering - as I'm sure many readers will - who are these authors and how did they get this information?  Farzad Bishop's bio states that he is an Iranian-born aviation analyst with \\"unique personal experiences and encounters\\" and that Austrian-born Tom Cooper has established \\"excellent contacts with many informed sources in Iran.\\"  This means that these guys must be pretty cozy with the Iranian Government. Given the difficulty of Westerners acquiring reliable military-related information from within the Islamic Republic of Iran, these authors owe the reading public more of an explanation of how this data was acquired. Researchers will find this work virtually useless since it lacks any kind of references, other than a \\"wink, wink...we got this information on the sly from sources that cannot be revealed\\" or \\"Major Ali told us...\\" At best, this volume is more like military gossip, than military history. At worst, this volume might be a conduit for Iranian Government-sponsored disinformation.<br /><br /> If one accepts any of the number of kills provided, one wonders why the Iranians let the war drag on for eight grueling years if they had such an awesome weapon. If a handful of F-14s could shoot down nearly one-fifth of the Iraqi Air Forcein the first few months of the war while on the defensive, what might they have accomplished on the offensive? Why didn't the IRIAF use its F-14 fighters to escort F-4 and F-5 fighter-bombers and bomb the heck out of Baghdad every day until Saddam asked for a ceasefire? While the IRIAF lacked heavy bombers, even their aircraft could carry sufficient bombs to cause considerable havoc in downtown Baghdad. Simple answer: they didn't because they couldn't.<br /><br />  This volume also has a subtle but considerable anti-US bias. While the authors never mention the cause of US animosity toward Iran - the 1979-1980 Hostage crisis brought about by Iran - they suggest that difficulties in acquiring spare parts for the F-14s was caused by US pique or neglect. The authors make a number of silly claims about US Navy ships assisting Iraqi air strikes that seem to come straight from the Iranian Propaganda Ministry.  Furthermore, despite that fact that hundreds of American technicians were in Iran to support the F-14 program in 1976-1979, the authors seem to have made no effort to interview Americans about the performance of Iranian F-14s. The authors constantly suggest that the US military under-rated the performance and ability of Iranian F-14s, but ignore the fact that US Air Force AWACS were probably tracking most air combat over the Persian Gulf during the war and probably had as good a picture of air combat results - if not better - than the Iranians themselves. The disinformation content in this volume surfaces when readers are supposed to trust unnamed Iranian sources more than radar plots and intercepts of \\"cockpit chatter.\\" When all is said and done with this volume, the actual contribution of the Iranian F-14s in the Iran-Iraq War is unclear.r Force in the first few months of the war while on the defensive, what might they have accomplished on the offensive? Why didn't the IRIAF use its F-14 fighters to escort F-4 and F-5 fighter-bombers and bomb the heck out of Baghdad every day until Saddam asked for a ceasefire? While the IRIAF lacked heavy bombers, even their aircraft could carry sufficient bombs to cause considerable havoc in downtown Baghdad. Simple answer: they didn't because they couldn't. <br /> <br />        This volume also has a subtle but considerable anti-US bias. While the authors never mention the cause of US animosity toward Iran - the 1979-1980 Hostage crisis brought about by Iran - they suggest that difficulties in acquiring spare parts for the F-14s was caused by US pique or neglect. The authors make a number of silly claims about US Navy ships assisting Iraqi air strikes that seem to come straight from the Iranian Propaganda Ministry.  Furthermore, despite that fact that hundreds of American technicians were in Iran to support the F-14 program in 1976-1979, the authors seem to have made no effort to interview Americans about the performance of Iranian F-14s. The authors constantly suggest that the US military under-rated the performance and ability of Iranian F-14s, but ignore the fact that US Air Force AWACS were probably tracking most air combat over the Persian Gulf during the war and probably had as good a picture of air combat results - if not better - than the Iranians themselves. The disinformation content in this volume surfaces when readers are supposed to trust unnamed Iranian sources more than radar plots and intercepts of \\"cockpit chatter.\\" When all is said and done with this volume, the actual contribution of the Iranian F-14s in the Iran-Iraq War is unclear.	2005-02-27
341589:US	52533596	R1SEYF9K1K7PN9	0500051240	364556752	The Complete Roman Army	Books	5	194	203	N	Y	Best One-Volume Work on the Subject Available	My first impression on receiving this book was that at 214 pages it was far too short to be considered a \\"complete\\" history of the Roman Army. However, Dr. Adrian Goldsworthy is one of the finest Roman-era historians writing today and he packs a considerable amount of detail into this slim volume. Although the volume is primarily a synthesis of other existing works, Goldsworthy has taken the best materials - including recent archaeological research from Kalkriese in Germany - to provide a very balanced portrait of this subject. Furthermore, The Complete Roman Army has a very high graphic quality, with beautiful color photographs of uniforms, reconstructed and ruined fortifications, weapons and locations. Indeed, this book is easily the best one-volume work available on the Roman Army today.<br /><br /> The Complete Roman Army consists of five major sections: the Republican Army (25 pages), the professional army (29 pages), the life of a Roman soldier (87 pages), the army at war (35 pages) and the army of late antiquity (14 pages). Goldsworthy covers numerous topics, including recruitment, daily routines, rewards and punishments, religion, retirement, equipment, rank structure and off-duty behavior. In essence, this represents a \\"handbook\\" on the Roman army. The author also includes order of battle data on the Roman Army, maps of garrison locations, layouts of camps and sidebars on major battles like Pharsalus and the defeat of Boudicca. Although some readers might wish greater detail than Goldsworthy can provide on some subjects, the author's extensive bibliography does point to other sources for expanded information. All in all, Goldsworthy's synthesis and condensation of so much information into such a small space is impressive.<br /><br /> Goldsworthy's discussion of Roman battle tactics follows in the tracks of his earlier works on the subject and I do find some gaps in his otherwise superb analysis. Goldsworthy never really explains how the Romans were so often victorious in the close battle; in previous books, Goldsworthy suggested that it was a handful of \\"extra-aggressive\\" soldiers who \\"broke into the enemy line\\" but in this book he leaves it more vague. While Goldsworthy notes the importance of the reserve in a Roman army, he doesn't discuss how it was used to win battles. Furthermore, he uses literary evidence from Caesar's commentaries to suggest that Roman soldiers charged at their enemies, hurling their pilum at 10-15 meters and then crashed into their line.  The idea that a soldier could run with armor and scutum, throw a javelin, then draw his sword while maintaining linear order with the soldiers on his right and left in the space of perhaps 6-10 seconds is absurd. Indeed, the idea of running with a large rectangular shield like the scutum seems pretty absurd. Given the Roman emphasis on tight discipline and the need to use the shields to cover the front rank, I think it far more like that Roman infantry advanced methodically.<br /><br /> In the final section, Goldsworthy spends little effort discussing the role of the army in Rome's decline and fall. While the author does mention the army's role in causing political instability in the empire and the difficulty its smaller units had in defeating Barbarian invasions, he dismisses the \\"Barbarization\\" theory and delves no further into examining the decline. Yet it is clear from the sources and evidence we have available that the Roman Army did decline in quality toward the end and that it was up against tougher opposition (Goldsworthy never mentions the Goths, Ostrogoths, Vandals or Huns). The Roman military system was based on a high level of tactical organization, skill and discipline - all of which apparently declined over time and contributed to their eventual defeat.often victorious in the close battle; in previous books, Goldsworthy suggested that it was a handful of \\"extra-aggressive\\" soldiers who \\"broke into the enemy line\\" but in this book he leaves it more vague. While Goldsworthy notes the importance of the reserve in a Roman army, he doesn't discuss how it was used to win battles. Furthermore, he uses literary evidence from Caesar's commentaries to suggest that Roman soldiers charged at their enemies, hurling their pilum at 10-15 meters and then crashed into their line.  The idea that a soldier could run with armor and scutum, throw a javelin, then draw his sword while maintaining linear order with the soldiers on his right and left in the space of perhaps 6-10 seconds is absurd. Indeed, the idea of running with a large rectangular shield like the scutum seems pretty absurd. Given the Roman emphasis on tight discipline and the need to use the shields to cover the front rank, I think it far more like that Roman infantry advanced methodically.   <br /> <br /> In the final section, Goldsworthy spends little effort discussing the role of the army in Rome's decline and fall. While the author does mention the army's role in causing political instability in the empire and the difficulty its smaller units had in defeating Barbarian invasions, he dismisses the \\"Barbarization\\" theory and delves no further into examining the decline. Yet it is clear from the sources and evidence we have available that the Roman Army did decline in quality toward the end and that it was up against tougher opposition (Goldsworthy never mentions the Goths, Ostrogoths, Vandals or Huns). The Roman military system was based on a high level of tactical organization, skill and discipline - all of which apparently declined over time and contributed to their eventual defeat.  <br />	2005-02-21
341974:US	52533596	R3KD568LBBZVTV	0811701980	957892537	Battle of Paoli (Stackpole Military History Series)	Books	3	9	12	N	Y	The Learning Curve of War	The Battle or Paoli (September 21, 1777) or the \\"Paoli Massacre\\" is one of three tactical engagements in the 1777 Philadelphia campaign in which General George Washington's army was out-maneuvered and outfought by General William Howe's army. Yet while the other two actions - Brandywine and Germantown - are fairly well known, Paoli has slipped into obscurity.  Thomas J. McGuire, a history teacher in Pennsylvania, sheds much light on the Battle of Paoli in this book, which relies heavily upon primary source documentation (including previously unused sources). Yet while McGuire's approach is erudite, he lacks the narrative skill of a writer like David Hackett Fischer and much of the book meanders along until the moment of battle arrives. McGuire also lacks the military skill to analyze the Battle of Paoli and examine its tactical meaning and operational implications. Nevertheless, McGuire's book is useful for its examination of this battle and its effect upon the defeated commander, Brigadier General Anthony Wayne.<br /><br /> McGuire organizes his volume into 26 chapters, most of which cover a period of 24 hours or less. Unfortunately, McGuire seems unconcerned for the necessity of chronological order in historical narrative and his first chapter covers September 26, 1777, then the second chapter jumps backward to August 24, then the third jumps ahead to September 14. While McGuire then steadies on course toward the Battle of Paoli on 21 September, his narrative is further obscured by the lack of decent maps. Washington detached one of his best divisions of continental troops under Anthony Wayne to harass the rear of Howe's army (McGuire spends little effort questioning this order, but splitting one's force in the face of a skilled enemy seems highly questionable), and there was considerable maneuvering in the period 14-21 September 1777 by both armies. Frankly, I had a great deal of trouble following McGuire's \\"they marched from this tavern to that tavern\\" kind of narrative, particularly with the one inadequate map he provides (which depicts no tactical movements). Aside from an inadequate tactical narrative, this first third of the book is quite weak for several reasons. First, McGuire spends little effort discussing his central characters - Anthony Wayne and British Major General Charles Grey; instead, they appear almost as ciphers. Second, McGuire seems completely unconcerned with anything going on beyond eastern Pennsylvania and ignores the strategic implications of a protracted campaign around Philadelphia. While Howe was inflicting three defeats upon Washington around Philadelphia, his army was not available to support Burgoyne's army in upstate New York, which at that moment was getting into serious trouble. Howe was so focused on his tactical battles that he lost sight of the \\"big picture\\" and Burgoyne's subsequent defeat and surrender at Saratoga owes something to these battles around Philadelphia.<br /><br /> Once McGuire gets to the Battle of Paoli itself, the quality of his narrative improves considerably and it is clear that this was the author's main emphasis. In short, the British discovered Wayne's division lurking in their rear and dispatched a picked brigade under Charles Grey to crush it. Quite unusual for the period, Grey's force conducted a fast night march and night attack upon the American camp and dispersed Wayne's force with considerable losses. The actual tactical action at Paoli was humiliating for the reputation of American arms and Wayne, with some of the best continental regiments offered up as bayonet practice for the British. While the question of whether or not Wayne was caught by surprise - and it appears that he was - is open to debate, the clumsy handling of American troops is not. Wayne's troops were bottled into their camp, which lacked any real defenses, in a trap of their own devising. McGuire does not bother to ask why Wayne thought it prudent to bivouac his entire division in such a small, congested area. American commanders still made many mistakes at this point in the war and unfortunately, Paoli was part of that learning curve.<br /><br /> The last several chapters cover events after the Battle of Paoli, including the American defeat at Germantown, the investigation into the battle and Wayne's court martial (of which few records have survived). McGuire displays the orientation of a local historian in these final chapters, spending great effort discussing the care of the Paoli Battlefield and various local inns after the war. While this may be charming for local readers, it means much less to someone outside Pennsylvania. Larger issues, such as Wayne's reputation, get much less attention. Indeed, one suspects that the reason Paoli became obscure was the possible blot that it represented on Wayne's early career and that, as he went on to later successes, this early defeat and court martial was conveniently ignored. Certainly McGuire should have asked the question, did this defeat at Paoli make Wayne a better commander in the future?a small, congested area. American commanders still made many mistakes at this point in the war and unfortunately, Paoli was part of that learning curve. <br /> <br /> The last several chapters cover events after the Battle of Paoli, including the American defeat at Germantown, the investigation into the battle and Wayne's court martial (of which few records have survived). McGuire displays the orientation of a local historian in these final chapters, spending great effort discussing the care of the Paoli Battlefield and various local inns after the war. While this may be charming for local readers, it means much less to someone outside Pennsylvania. Larger issues, such as Wayne's reputation, get much less attention. Indeed, one suspects that the reason Paoli became obscure was the possible blot that it represented on Wayne's early career and that, as he went on to later successes, this early defeat and court martial was conveniently ignored. Certainly McGuire should have asked the question, did this defeat at Paoli make Wayne a better commander in the future? <br />	2005-02-21
375844:US	52533596	R23714SQEVZP8Y	1841768510	451419394	The Marshall Islands 1944: Operation Flintlock, the capture of Kwajalein and Eniwetok (Campaign)	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	Fills in the Details on Forgotten Operations	In Osprey's Campaign series #146, The Marshall Islands 1944, Gordon L. Rottman continues his painstaking effort to detail US Marine operations in the Pacific in the Second World War.  As usual, Rottman provides ample information on unit movements, casualties and orders of battle, while avoiding any effort to put the campaign in a human perspective by including first-person accounts or mentioning Medal of Honor recipients. Nevertheless, the Marshall Island campaign of 1944 has faded from sight due to all the attention on D-Day and bigger Pacific actions like Okinawa, so Rottman's effort is not without its merit. By including this operation and all the others that Rottman has written about, Osprey has established a common framework for looking at these largely forgotten campaigns of 1943-1944.<br /><br /> Rottman provides more strategic background to this campaign than he has in other volumes. In his section on opposing plans, Rottman notes that the Japanese misjudged American intentions in the central Pacific and deployed only \\"odds and ends\\" forces into the Marshall Islands and the leadership in Tokyo viewed the islands as beyond their main defensive sphere. Given the Japanese refusal to commit additional air or naval forces to the defense of the Marshalls, the Japanese effort in the islands was doomed from the start and the 28,000 troops deployed on the numerous islands in the chain were merely intended to delay the inevitable American victory. Thus, studying the campaign in the Marshalls has its limitations, since one side never intended to win and the question of superior generalship is a moot point under such circumstances. The author also details the opposing commanders and opposing forces in some detail, including a very detailed order of battle. There are more 2-D maps in this volume than a usual Osprey; there are 9 2-D maps, including ones on the strategic situation, and each of the main islands. The three 3-D maps are: Roi-Namur, Kwajalein and Engebi islands. The three battle scenes are: tank support on Roi island; clearing spider holes on Kwajalein and Japanese defense of a bomb crater on Engebi island.<br /><br /> As usual, Rottman gives the details of military operations without much analysis and he tends to favor the US Marines. For example, he provides details on the 4th Marine Division's effort to clear all the minor islands around Roi-Namur on D-1 (31 January 1944). However, Rottman fails to connect the dots in these preliminary operations, since it is clear that the Marines used over 3,000 men to eliminate fewer than 100 Japanese defenders.  While these preliminary operations were useful - they gave the Marines positions to land their artillery to support the main landings on the next day - they also disrupted the landing craft availability on D-Day (almost half the amphibious tractors were not back in time to land the main force). By the laws of war, the 4th Marine Division violated economy of force by using an entire regiment to take out essentially a dispersed company and this impacted the performance of the division for the main operation. Once the Marines did land on Roi-Namur, Rottman notes that there was an unusual breakdown in controlling the troops given the lighter-than-expected resistance. A large amount of the casualties on Roi-Namur were inflicted by a careless detonation of a Japanese torpedo bunker (this happens to just about everybody in war, e.g. the Germans in 1916 lost hundreds of troops to carelessness in an explosion in Fort Douamont at Verdun) and readers should note the very high number of MIAs in this operation (more than KIAs).<br /><br /> Another factor that makes these campaigns somewhat unusual is that the Japanese defenders had not had much time to construct strong bunkers and they had very little in the way of indirect fire support. Consequently, the American preliminary bombardments of these islands was more effective than usual and the Japanese had much less ability to contest the beachheads. Readers should note that US Army units tended to suffer less casualties than US Marine units, a discrepancy left unexamined by Rottman. In the end, these operations were foregone conclusions, although at the price of 3,200 US American casualties (including over 600 dead) and that cost should not soon be forgotten.contest the beachheads. Readers should note that US Army units tended to suffer less casualties than US Marine units, a discrepancy left unexamined by Rottman. In the end, these operations were foregone conclusions, although at the price of 3,200 US American casualties (including over 600 dead) and that cost should not soon be forgotten.   <br />	2005-01-24
380433:US	52533596	R39ETXQ5I9D2LU	1841768103	315906960	0: Battle of the Bulge 1944 (2): Bastogne (Campaign)	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Another Great Volume from Zaloga	The Battle of the Bulge is one of those subjects in military history that has been so over-covered that readers must be wary of new volumes on this subject, many of which only repackage what other writers did earlier. Fortunately, Steven Zaloga's second volume in the Osprey Campaign series is a well-written narrative that can stand on its own merits. This second volume focuses the southern half of the Ardennes front, including the fighting around Bastogne.  Zaloga's writing style is in fine fettle in this volume and although much of the material is familiar, it is presented with incisive comment and penetrating analysis. Even if you have other \\"Bulge\\" books on your shelf already, this volume and its companion are well worth having.<br /><br />  Zaloga's opening sections on the strategic situation, opposing plans, opposing leaders and opposing armies are a bit shorter than usual since much of this material was also covered in the first volume. The order of battle provided is a bit overly succinct since it lists only division-level units; certainly the German Volks artillery corps and the US engineer units at Bastogne should have been listed. The elements of Patton's 3rd Army that broke through to Bastogne as well as the 101st Airborne Division are omitted.  Zaloga provides five 2-D maps (German objectives in the southern sector, 5th Panzer army vs. 28th Division, 7th Army vs. XII Corps, Patton's Relief of Bastogne, Eliminating the Bulge) and three 3-D maps (Bastogne Encircled, Battle for the road junctions, Blunting the Spearhead).  The three color battle scenes by Peter Dennis and Howard Gerrard are: Christmas in Bastogne, Operation Bodenplatte and Spearhead to the Meuse.<br /><br /> The author's description of the 5th Panzer Army's attack on the 28th Infantry Division is excellent, although I wish he had given some mention of what was left of the \\"Bloody Bucket\\" after this 2-day epic fight. As Zaloga describes it, the German Panzer Lehr Division had a brief opportunity to get into Bastogne on the third day of the offensive (December 18) but squandered the chance due to over-caution. Although Bastogne was the major intermediate objective for 5th Panzer Army, it is clear that the Germans never allocated sufficient forces to deal with this thorn in their side. Zaloga also briefly covers air operations over the Ardennes, although much of the focus is on Operation Bodenplatte, the surprise German air attack on New Years day.<br /><br /> Zaloga also covers the futile attack of the German 7th Army on the southern flank (which is usually ignored in many accounts), the final German effort to push 2nd Panzer Division and Panzer Lehr toward the Meuse and the Allied counterattack. Zaloga also includes some of the controversies of the campaign, such as Field Marshal Montgomery's temporary command over US forces near the Meuse and his unwillingness to counterattack the over-extended Germans. Like most authors, Zaloga also believes that the Allied failure to cut off the German salient in a pincer operation was overly-cautious and allowed more Germans to escape to fight again. In sum, this volume provides an excellent operational summary of a hard-fought and close-run campaign.portunity to get into Bastogne on the third day of the offensive (December 18) but squandered the chance due to over-caution. Although Bastogne was the major intermediate objective for 5th Panzer Army, it is clear that the Germans never allocated sufficient forces to deal with this thorn in their side. Zaloga also briefly covers air operations over the Ardennes, although much of the focus is on Operation Bodenplatte, the surprise German air attack on New Years day. <br /> <br /> Zaloga also covers the futile attack of the German 7th Army on the southern flank (which is usually ignored in many accounts), the final German effort to push 2nd Panzer Division and Panzer Lehr toward the Meuse and the Allied counterattack. Zaloga also includes some of the controversies of the campaign, such as Field Marshal Montgomery's temporary command over US forces near the Meuse and his unwillingness to counterattack the over-extended Germans. Like most authors, Zaloga also believes that the Allied failure to cut off the German salient in a pincer operation was overly-cautious and allowed more Germans to escape to fight again. In sum, this volume provides an excellent operational summary of a hard-fought and close-run campaign.   <br />	2005-01-20
385698:US	52533596	R2YRHOWU9L0LXI	1841767530	275507551	Groupe de Combat 12, 'Les Cigognes': France's Ace Fighter Group in World War 1 (Aviation Elite Units)	Books	3	8	11	N	N	The "Storks" - Plodding Detail but no Analysis	Although fighter combat in the First World War has received a great deal of attention, most of that attention has been reserved for German, Commonwealth and American aces.  In Osprey's Aviation Elite Units #18, Jon Guttman provides an interesting look into France's premier fighter unit - Group de Combat 12, nicknamed \\"the Storks.\\" GC12 was formed in the Spring of 1916 from existing French fighter squadrons and pre-dated the more-famous German \\"Flying Circus\\" by a year. Guttman's research effort is prodigious and readers are presented with a wealth of information on daily operations of the group and details on individual pilots. Unfortunately, Guttman's writing style and approach quickly falls into the rut of detailing who shot down what on a given day, but fails to provide either \\"the big picture\\" or other details about the unit that would give the reader a fuller appreciation of the contributions of this unit. Perhaps the greatest failing of this volume is the complete lack of analysis; the reader is provided with bare facts and little effort is made to interpret them. Nevertheless, \\"the Storks\\" is a good reference on the French fighter force in the First World War.<br /><br /> The volume consists of eight chapters that cover various operational periods in the history of GC12 in 1916-1918. Fourteen pages of color plates on individual aircraft add great value to the volume. The author provides one appendix (aces who flew in GC12) and a short bibliography. There are no maps in the volume and this makes it difficult to determine what parts of the front the unit was operating on at various periods in the war.<br /><br /> Two items that will strike most readers of this volume is the national diversity in GC12 pilots and the fact that 37% of the groups confirmed 'kills' were scored by only two pilots. Guttman details the Japanese (!) and Russian pilots who joined the group, as well as the numerous Americans. It strikes me as odd that France's premier fighter unit - which boasted France's two top aces - included so many foreigners in its ranks; unfortunately, this is one of many issues that the author never explains. In terms of aces, Georges Guynemer and Ren&eacute; Fonck dominated the performance of the group much more than an ace like von Richtofen did in JG-1. Another item that I noted after reading the other volume on JG-1 in this series is that the French aviation industry seemed to do a better job in supplying well-built aircraft in quantity; the Nieuport and SPAD fighters were sound designs and well-built, unlike the often poorly-built Fokker DR-1 triplanes.<br /><br /> Unfortunately, there is just too much missing in this volume to make it fully useful. Also from obvious omissions like the lack of a map, the author fails to provide simple details like how many aircraft were in individual squadrons or the group as a whole. There is little of no mention of how pilots or replacements went to GC12, how maintenance was conducted in the group (how much was done at unit level and how much at higher level?), how victories were \\"confirmed\\" or how GC12 coordinated with other British and French aviation units. There is virtually no discussion of French aviation doctrine in this volume (remembering that the French air arm has not been well covered before) or how GC12 coordinated with the French ground forces. Indeed, after reading this volume I am not clear who GC12's higher headquarters was since the author tends to focus too much on individual fighter actions. Indeed, it is quickly apparent that the author is only intent about providing a tedious, blow-by-blow account of daily fighter actions - the result is great detail that is not connected into any coherent pattern. The author also avoids any attempt at analysis. I was struck by the fact that GC12 had only 286 confirmed kills in three years of war, which was significantly less than the 500+ kills claimed by Germany's JG-1 in less than two years of war. Why the great disparity? Theauthor also should have made more effort to analyze the occasions when GC12 fought JG1 and determine how France's best compared against Germany's best.e author also should have made more effort to analyze the occasions when GC12 fought JG1 and determine how France's best compared against Germany's best.  <br />  <br />	2005-01-16
405547:US	52533596	R23N8WMGCIETMS	0760313229	423315573	Afghan Guerrilla Warfare: In the Words of the Mjuahideen Fighters (Zenith Military Classics)	Books	4	12	16	N	N	A Great Tactical Primer on Mujahidin Operations	Afghan Guerrilla Warfare is the counterpart to the earlier volume The Bear Went Over the Mountain that described Soviet tactics in Afghanistan.  Lester Grau and Ali Ahmad traveled to Pakistan in the 1990s to interview about 40 Mujahidin (Holy Warrior) fighters about their perspectives on the war.  This is a detailed tactical study intended for professional soldiers - not academics and not the general public, although some from each group may find this study interesting.  The authors have amassed over one hundred interviews into a series of tactical vignettes that are organized by topics, such as ambushes, raids, urban combat and defending base camps. Most of the vignettes include a sketch map, along with references to the 1:100,000 map sheets consulted.  The result is an impressive volume that acts essentially as the FM 100-5 Operations for Afghan insurgents. Although there is not a direct relationship between the Soviet experience in Afghanistan and the current Coalition experience in Iraq, there are enough tactical similarities to merit proper study of the lessons in these pages.<br /><br />  Afghan Guerrilla Warfare goes a long way towards dispelling many of the myths and misconceptions that have arisen about the Mujahidin, starting with the notion that they were tactical wizards of some sort.  The authors detail the gamut of Mujahidin operations, and their execution ranges from professionally planned with successful outcomes to amateurish operations that end in catastrophe.  Readers will be amazed to see how some Mujahidin groups used the same ambush spots over and over again, without the Soviets anticipating it or making any countermoves.  On the other hand, it is interesting to read about the number of occasions where the mujahidin were caught by surprise or even asleep. It is also clear that the high degree of Soviet tactical incompetence enhanced the success of Mujahidin efforts, but on the rare occasions when the Soviets did their homework, the Muj suffered accordingly.  The authors also make the point that the Mujahidin did not expect to win the war in the short term and consequently, their methods were geared toward protracted attrition warfare rather than achieving great operational objectives.<br /><br /> Many of the strengths of the Afghan Mujahidin - invisibility and mobility - are also strengths for the current insurgents in Iraq. The Afghan guerrillas excelled at hit-and-run raids in both mountainous and urban terrain, inflicting losses on Soviet convoys and then melting away before the Soviets replied with artillery and helicopter gunships (unlike the US, the Soviets replied mostly by fire, rather than maneuver).  The guerrillas were also very good - or the Soviets were very bad - about cordon and search operations; these efforts usually ended up with the guerrillas slipping the noose.  On the other hand, the Soviets were gradually able to impact Mujahidin logistics (by destroying villages and moving population), which forced the guerrillas to build large base camps in mountainous terrain.  These \\"mountain fortresses,\\" such as Tora Bora, were tough nuts to crack but the authors believe that they were something of a liability for the insurgents, tying down many troops in defensive roles and attractive Soviet firepower at a fixed target.<br /><br /> There are some useful lessons in these pages for US troops in Iraq and Afghanistan today. First, the guerrillas never developed an effective means of dealing with Soviet minefields around fortified bases - and it is likely that current guerrillas would be equally stymied by US antipersonnel mines and obstacles (although the US cannot politically afford to use mines indiscriminately as the Soviets did).  Second, lack of a unified command structure made it difficult to crack the insurgency (i.e. leaders were replaceable) but it also made it nearly impossible for the insurgents to rise above the tactical level of warfare.  Without a unified command, it is exceedingly difficult for guerrillas to fight warfare on the operational level - a necessary prerequisite for victory. Finally, the mujahidin in Afghanistan rarely used suicide tactics or targeted civilians - unlike the preference of Iraqi insurgents today.  The Afghan insurgents enjoyed popular support in many areas because they were fighting a hated invader (who brought nothing but tyranny and devastation) and they focused their efforts on military targets. However, the current Iraqi insurgents display an insensitivity toward civilian casualties that undermines their ability to gather popular support, despite the presence of an invader. Ultimately, Grau's study sheds light on how one particular Muslim culture waged jihad against one particular foe, but the lessons are useful in a general sense for the types of conflict that the US is likely to see for years to come.ceedingly difficult for guerrillas to fight warfare on the operational level - a necessary prerequisite for victory. Finally, the mujahidin in Afghanistan rarely used suicide tactics or targeted civilians - unlike the preference of Iraqi insurgents today.  The Afghan insurgents enjoyed popular support in many areas because they were fighting a hated invader (who brought nothing but tyranny and devastation) and they focused their efforts on military targets. However, the current Iraqi insurgents display an insensitivity toward civilian casualties that undermines their ability to gather popular support, despite the presence of an invader. Ultimately, Grau's study sheds light on how one particular Muslim culture waged jihad against one particular foe, but the lessons are useful in a general sense for the types of conflict that the US is likely to see for years to come.    <br />	2005-01-01
406188:US	52533596	R1CE5CG4ODLR1O	1841767603	837857710	Fortifications of the Western Front 1914–18 (Fortress)	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	A Good Summary of Trench Warfare Systems	British military historian Paddy Griffith provides an interesting introduction to the defensive tactics and techniques used on the Western Front in the First World War in Osprey's Fortress #24.  While the volume is a bit overly succinct in some areas, the author provides an insightful and useful summary of the main characteristics of the defensive measures that shaped the course of the First World War in the West.  Although much of the focus is on the British and German experience, there is just enough on the Belgians and French to provide some balance (although no surprise, American readers will find the AEF's trench experiences unmentioned in this account).<br /><br />  After a short introduction to the layout of the First World War Western Front, Griffith lays out sections on the 1914-18 operational history of fortifications, principles of defense and the design and development of the three main types of fortifications. Griffith also provides interesting notes on the sites today, which would make this volume a useful tool for anyone interested in viewing the remnants or reconstructions of First World War trench systems. One of the highlights of this volume is the seven color scenes by artist Peter Dennis (underground fighting at Fort Vaux; a British trench of 1914-5; the Battle of Cambrai 1917; British trench system on the Somme, 1916; German trenches and deep dugouts; German fortifications in depth at Third Ypres 1917; British defenses in depth, 1918). Additionally, Griffith provides one 2-D map of the Western Front and an excellent bibliography.<br /><br />  There are a number of interesting and often ignored points in this volume.  Griffith mentions that it was actually the French in 1915 that first employed storm trooper type tactics. Another telling point about the short usefulness of \\"secret weapons\\" is that the German 420mm super howitzers failed to destroy reinforced French forts at Verdun (one fort sustained 339 hits by 420mm shells), meaning that the temporary German advantage in super heavy artillery had passed.  Griffith also points out that the French invested a large part of their defense budget in 1871-1914 into fixed fortifications that failed the nation when war came - an eerie foretaste of the futility of the later Maginot Line effort. Griffith does a superb job outlining the main features of Western Front fortifications, including habitability, protection and firepower of the three main types of fortifications (pre-war permanent forts, hasty or improvised fieldworks and planned trench lines).  There is a lot of material to cover in only 64 pages and inevitably, some things are left out that will disappoint some readers; Vimy Ridge and a detailed look at the Hindenburg line come to mind.<br /><br />  Griffith does not really assess the two methods chosen to break the trench deadlock - infiltration tactics and the tank - although he does mention the introduction of both techniques.  Since Griffith mentions the re-occurrence of trench warfare up through Dien Bien Phu in 1954, readers might leave with the faulty impression that the defensive methods used in the First World War remained valid for much of the century.  In fact, the methods of the First World War were an aberration and although trench warfare did re-appear in later conflicts like Korea, it was only applicable in secondary or economy of force circumstances.  The type of fortification systems outlined by Griffith briefly dominated warfare, but once technology and doctrine caught up, their significance diminished greatly.<br /><br />  Griffith mentions two other interesting items that point to the enduring dynamics of warfare.  First, Griffith mentions that the Germans quickly realized that building reinforced structures at least 6 meters underground provided safety against even the heaviest shells (the British often only dug down 2-3 meters, which made their structures vulnerable to heavy artillery). Interestingly, one of the lessons learned fromDesert Storm in 1991 was that NATO forces needed the capability to penetrate at least 6 meters with precision weapons to destroy underground facilities - a capability that still eludes US aircraft with non-nuclear weapons. It seems like the lessons of 90 years ago are still relevant about survivability, and incomprehensible that this lesson needs to be periodically re-learned. The second interesting item relates to the doctrinal use of reserves in the face of a superior foe. Griffith notes that the Germans continually experimented with keeping their reserves either close to the front or further back; too close and the reserves were interdicted by British artillery, too far and they survived but arrived too late. This situation would face the Germans again in Normandy in 1944, with Allied airpower rather than artillery being the key factor influencing deployment.Desert Storm in 1991 was that NATO forces needed the capability to penetrate at least 6 meters with precision weapons to destroy underground facilities - a capability that still eludes US aircraft with non-nuclear weapons. It seems like the lessons of 90 years ago are still relevant about survivability, and incomprehensible that this lesson needs to be periodically re-learned. The second interesting item relates to the doctrinal use of reserves in the face of a superior foe. Griffith notes that the Germans continually experimented with keeping their reserves either close to the front or further back; too close and the reserves were interdicted by British artillery, too far and they survived but arrived too late. This situation would face the Germans again in Normandy in 1944, with Allied airpower rather than artillery being the key factor influencing deployment.	2004-12-31
416192:US	52533596	R2VXFVXUUHTP3K	184176776X	709648996	Afghanistan Cave Complexes 1979–2004: Mountain strongholds of the Mujahideen, Taliban & Al Qaeda (Fortress)	Books	2	6	9	N	Y	Bomb Magnets	It is extremely risky to write about an ongoing conflict, since many details remain either classified or obscure, but Osprey has waded into Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) with Afghanistan Cave Complexes 1979-2004. The author, a former enlisted US Army Ranger in the 1980s, relies primarily upon the earlier works of Lester Grau on the Soviet experience in Afghanistan, newspaper accounts, and US DoD press releases. This volume has its pluses: immediate relevancy, all color photographs and coverage of a conflict that has become a \\"forgotten war.\\" However, this volume is ultimately a synthesis product that relies too heavily on one source (Grau), lacks objectivity and fails to get a good handle on its subject.  Readers expecting an in-depth look at the fighting around Tora Bora in 2001 are going to be disappointed and readers expecting to really gain an appreciate for the Soviet experience in Afghanistan should just read Lester Grau.<br /><br /> Afghanistan Cave Complexes 1979-2004 begins with a short introduction to Afghanistan and a chronology of the key military events in this period. The section on design and development notes that most of the Afghan caves are natural, but offers few details on the manmade variety (who made them, when, how). The following section, on weapons systems at war, lists a variety of US aircraft and munitions used in OEF. The section on offensive operations discusses Soviet procedures against the karez irrigation system and US tunnel/cave clearing procedures. The section on defensive operations discusses mujahidin, Taliban and Al-Qaeda tactics for defending cave complexes. On the other hand, the author provides a fairly extensive bibliography for such a recent subject, including numerous websites.<br /><br /> In a military sense, the author does not have a good handle on the significance of these cave complexes, although he clearly implies that they have been a major asset for the enemy against the Soviets and Americans. Unlike the Maginot Line or the West Wall, the cave complexes were built to protect logistic bases and enemy troops, not as actual fighting positions.  The enemy in Afghanistan has been primarily a guerrilla force and fixed fortifications do not mesh well with this type of force.  As Grau notes in his studies, the base complexes were a dubious asset at best since they robbed the insurgents of their key strengths - mobility and invisibility - and tied down many insurgents in protecting a fixed base, instead of attacking Soviet or American bases.  Furthermore, this author fails to note that the cave complexes were never very secret and both the Soviets and Americans were soon aware of them and proceeded to bomb the heck out of them. Indeed, the cave complexes ended up being \\"bomb magnets\\" that caused heavier mujahidin casualties than if they had dispersed. Although difficult, both the Soviets and Americans proved that they could move into and seize these complexes.<br /><br /> Unlike Grau's works, this author appears to embrace media-derived biases.  Given what's here, it's not clear if this author did any of his own thinking or analysis.  It is clear that readers will gain a false impression of what is currently going on in Afghanistan if they accept this author's polemics. Early on, the author states, \\"the initiative was lost,\\" that \\"Afghanistan is less safe\\" now and that \\"disgruntled Afghan warlords dominate the country.\\" OK, this author apparently is very selective in his newsgathering, because he apparently missed reconstruction projects like the opening of the Kabul-Kandahar highway, political successes like the recent elections and the on-going disarmament program that has muzzled the warlords. The fact that the Taliban threatened to disrupt the Afghan elections and failed showed just who has the initiative.  Unlike the war against the Soviets, the Afghan people do not want the Taliban back, which greatly reduces the ability of that insurgency to expand. Later on, the author claims that, \\"over the last two years [the Taliban] have regained much of their lost territories.\\" Huh? I don't know of a single village or city in Afghanistan flying their flag, and when they do show up in the rural areas, it is to rob villagers of supplies. While the Afghan Government and Coalition forces do not claim to control the entire country, they have the ability to rapidly respond to Taliban resurgence anywhere within Afghanistan and crush it. The author's claim that \\"little has changed\\" in Afghanistan is ludicrous, and an insult to a people that are enjoying their first taste of democracy.<br /><br /> The author really goes off the deep end when he addresses the Battlefield Operating Systems (BOS) and US Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld. The author states, \\"the implementation of the misguided 'Rumsfeldian theory of war,' the reduction of regular forces in favor of technology and an over-reliance on airpower, have placed severe restrictions on the battlefield commanders as seen in the failures at Tora Bora, Operation Anaconda and...Operation Iraqi Freedom....In none of these operations...have US forces been able to maximize the potential of combined arms. This has led to higher casualty rates and protracted campaigns.\\" First, the author fails to appreciate the logistic and political constraints that imposed significant limitations upon the initial US ground force commitment in Afghanistan. When the US moved against Tora Bora, Kabul airport had just been opened and the logistic infrastructure in the region was extremely primitive - it is doubtful that a full division-size force could have been adequately supported in the Tora Bora area at that time. The author's understanding of US military doctrine and operations in OEF and OIF is faulty, since both operations were marked by excellent use of combined arms. Higher casualties due to Rumsfeld? The US seized Kabul, crushed Taliban military power and evicted their regime from all major population centers all within two months and at the cost of fewer than 50 US combat deaths. True, UBL was not caught, but OEF was overwhelmingly successful and at very light cost.  The author's anti-Rumsfeld bias betrays an unwillingness to examine ground truth in Afghanistan.thor claims that, \\"over the last two years [the Taliban] have regained much of their lost territories.\\" Huh? I don't know of a single village or city in Afghanistan flying their flag, and when they do show up in the rural areas, it is to rob villagers of supplies. While the Afghan Government and Coalition forces do not claim to control the entire country, they have the ability to rapidly respond to Taliban resurgence anywhere within Afghanistan and crush it. The author's claim that \\"little has changed\\" in Afghanistan is ludicrous, and an insult to a people that are enjoying their first taste of democracy.   <br /> <br /> The author really goes off the deep end when he addresses the Battlefield Operating Systems (BOS) and US Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld. The author states, \\"the implementation of the misguided 'Rumsfeldian theory of war,' the reduction of regular forces in favor of technology and an over-reliance on airpower, have placed severe restrictions on the battlefield commanders as seen in the failures at Tora Bora, Operation Anaconda and...Operation Iraqi Freedom....In none of these operations...have US forces been able to maximize the potential of combined arms. This has led to higher casualty rates and protracted campaigns.\\" First, the author fails to appreciate the logistic and political constraints that imposed significant limitations upon the initial US ground force commitment in Afghanistan. When the US moved against Tora Bora, Kabul airport had just been opened and the logistic infrastructure in the region was extremely primitive - it is doubtful that a full division-size force could have been adequately supported in the Tora Bora area at that time. The author's understanding of US military doctrine and operations in OEF and OIF is faulty, since both operations were marked by excellent use of combined arms. Higher casualties due to Rumsfeld? The US seized Kabul, crushed Taliban military power and evicted their regime from all major population centersall within two months and at the cost of fewer than 50 US combat deaths. True, UBL was not caught, but OEF was overwhelmingly successful and at very light cost.  The author's anti-Rumsfeld bias betrays an unwillingness to examine ground truth in Afghanistan.  <br />	2004-12-22
431172:US	52533596	R1H02FA9JYJVLQ	1841767697	854791005	Heroes of the Soviet Union 1941–45 (Elite)	Books	3	11	18	N	N	Watch out for Wartime Communist Propaganda	Although the Soviet Union awarded over 12,000 medals for valor in the Second World War, few of these men have even been heard of in the West.  One suspects that even in Russia today, these heroes from sixty years ago are slipping into obscurity. Amateur historian Henry Sakaida is to be congratulated on bringing these men to light in Osprey Elite #111, Heroes of the Soviet Union 1941-45. Sakaida's narrative of the 30+ individuals that he profiles covers the gamut from aviators, to pilots, to snipers, to sailors, to tankers and infantrymen. Western readers can gain a good impression of the kind of troops that made up the Red Army in 1941-45 in these pages (at least the better ones).  However, readers should be aware that the author accepts the Soviet-era claims about these men's exploits with few qualms and that the Soviet Government was more than willing to \\"manufacture\\" heroes as needed.  While the majority of these men were probably genuine heroes, the exploits of some suggest imaginative citation-writing.<br /><br /> After a short introduction on \\"the Great Patriotic War,\\" the author provides background on the Hero of the Soviet Union (HSU) award.  Interestingly, the author provides data on medal's recipients by branch and ethnic group (e.g. 3 Chechens received the HSU).  The author then provides capsule biographies of about 30 recipients of the HSU.  The volume includes eight color plates: the Gold Star Medal and the Order of Lenin; sniper Ohlopkov; Lieutenant Gakhokidze at Sevastopol; spy Robert Klein; sailor Golubkov in Manchuria in 1945; pilot Maresyev; medic Kokorin; and partisan Kazei. The author provides no bibliography or notes on source material.<br /><br /> The author certainly provides some dramatic detail in these pages, such as the Soviet pilot who was captured and escaped in a commandeered Heinkel bomber or the naval commando Leonov.  However, some of the Soviet-era claims appear pretty dubious.  For example, the Soviets awarded the HSU to partisan leader Dmitri Medvedev, claiming that his unit had \\"killed more than 2,000 Germans, including 11 generals and high officials.\\" Now, the German army in the Second World War had a ratio of perhaps 1 general officer for every 5,000 or more troops, so how likely is it that the Soviets would nail this many generals in one area? Not very likely. Furthermore, a number of citations claim that the recipient killed a German general, but not one is mentioned by name, date, or location, making crosschecking very difficult. Another \\"tale\\" that is very fishy is the account of the \\"Heroes of Taranovka Station,\\" a small unit action near Kharkov in March 1943.  This action was unusual because all 25 men in a Guards Rifle platoon received the HSU for this action, in which it was claimed that the platoon held off most of a German tank battalion and destroyed nearly half their vehicles.  Taranovka Station is one of those fantasy worlds that Stalin used to like to make out of \\"dead heroes.\\" As a former tanker, the idea that 25 infantrymen in wooden shacks, armed only with one light AT gun, a few mines and grenades could defeat a mixed force of German armor and mechanized infantry is just silly. Certainly the Guards platoon may have inflicted some damage, but the force ratio was just too unbalanced to be credible.  Noticeably, the author avoids commenting on some of the more questionable claims - it appears that he might be concerned about offending some of his hosts.<br /><br /> This volume on the HSU goes well with other Osprey volumes on the Medal of Honor and Knights Cross winners (hopefully they will have one on the Victoria Cross as well), but the volumes from the totalitarian side of the street seem tinged with elements of wartime propaganda and hero creation.  Readers from modern democracies should appreciate the sacrifices made by the Red Army in the Second World War (well, not maybe those sacrifices against the Poles or Finns in 1939) - it was the Red Army that did the most to defeat Nazi Germany - but should remain cognizant of the imperatives of Stalin's version of communism that underlay this cult of the hero.e most to defeat Nazi Germany - but should remain cognizant of the imperatives of Stalin's version of communism that underlay this cult of the hero.	2004-12-08
431256:US	52533596	R5ACTW53B4R6S	1841767670	886015805	British Home Defences 1940-45 (Fortress)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Interesting, but Skimpy on Details	In the late summer of 1940, Britain was faced with the prospect of German invasion and due to the disaster in France, few resources were at hand to repel this threat if it succeeded in getting across the English Channel. In Osprey Fortress #20, Bernard Lowry outlines the British efforts to develop an effective homeland defense.  This volume is interesting, well researched and fairly well written and certainly provides a good introduction to the subject.  Unfortunately, the author has not defined his focus to fit within the framework of a 64-page volume and in attempting to cram in a myriad of sub-topics, he slights important details on the key topics.  Ultimately, the two questions about British Home defenses are: were they sufficient to defeat a German invasion in 1940-1 and were they adequate to deal with the air and missile attacks in 1942-5? The author makes very little effort to address these crucial questions and appears content to provide a broad overview.<br /><br /> The volume begins with a discussion of Operation \\"Sea Lion,\\" the planned German invasion of Britain and how this led to the hasty development of British Home Defenses in 1940-41.  The author describes the creation of the Home Guard (the picture presented is probably a bit rosier than the reality of a hastily-cobbled together citizens' militia) and the construction of thousands of pillboxes and obstacles, as well as skimming over the coastal artillery. The author then diverts into a section on air defenses, which is somewhat redundant with the Osprey volume on Britain's air defenses by Alfred Price.  Then the author diverts to a section on British plans for waging guerrilla warfare in the event of German invasion (oddly, the author spends more time on hypothetical resistance groups than he does on things that actually were used, like the coastal batteries at Dover) and another section on civil defenses. The final German V-weapon offensive is covered quickly, and readers should refer to other Osprey volumes on the V-1 and V-2 for more detail.  The author includes one 2-D map (the land and air defenses of Britain 1940-42, which shows \\"Stop Lines,\\" RAF groups and radar stations) and the volume has seven color illustrations: defending an AT island; the 15\\" gun 'Jane' at Wanstone Battery; Coastal defenses at Aldeburgh, Suffolk in 1942; 5.25\\" HAA battery in London 1943; LAA Bofors battery 1942; the morning after an air raid 1941; the cabinet war room in London.  The author's bibliography is good, but provides no Internet websites that relate to this topic. A quick search on the Internet revealed that there were sites that provided information and photographs on British defenses around Dover that were not discussed in this volume.<br /><br />  The author's focus is a bit too high-level and does not offer readers a good picture of the British defenses that were most likely to face a German invasion.  Although the author briefly mentions that the 1st London Division - which was defending the Dover area - was woefully short of automatic and anti-tank weapons, he provides few other details about the first-line defenses. Indeed, the author spends more time discussing inland defenses - \\"Stop Lines\\" and \\"Anti-tank islands\\" - than he does discussing the actual coastal defenses that would have faced the first German invaders.  One suspects, given the diminished circumstances of the British Army in September 1940, that if the Germans had made it past the beaches in any strength the other British defenses wouldn't have mattered much. If the British lacked the machineguns and anti-tank weapons to defend the beaches, there certainly wouldn't have been much to hold \\"Stop Lines.\\" Although the German plan to land elements of 11 divisions in the first wave was too ambitious for their limited naval resources, the British had less than two full-strength divisions on the intended invasion beaches.  Nor does the author make much effort to discuss how British air and sea power would have been used to defeat the invasion (other sources mention near-suicidal plans to deploy British capital ships to smash the invasion convoys, if necessary and the RAF would have had to switch from the counter-air mission to naval interdiction).<br /><br />  Some areas of the volume were just too skimpy on detail to even approach accuracy.  The section on coastal defenses has barely two pages of text on the subject and omits a number of key facts.  First, the British lost the only three super-heavy batteries of artillery they had in France in June 1940.  The British quickly built some coastal batteries near Dover from odds and ends, but the author fails to mention the three 13.5\\" railroad guns that were employed.  The author also gives the impression that there was rough parity with the German coastal batteries near Calais; in fact, the Germans had a large superiority with 20 large-caliber guns versus less than 10 similar pieces on the British side.  The author is also inaccurate when he claimed that the Wanstone Battery was dismantled in 1957; while the guns themselves are gone, there are pictures on the Internet of the magazines and some others parts of the batteries taken in 2000.  Since the author notes that he has been part of a project to record Britain's remaining WW2 defenses, it seems odd that he missed something this large.  Despite this type of oversight, the volume still provides a useful summary, but it should be carefully vetted with other material to flesh out the details.wer would have been used to defeat the invasion (other sources mention near-suicidal plans to deploy British capital ships to smash the invasion convoys, if necessary and the RAF would have had to switch from the counter-air mission to naval interdiction).   <br /> <br />      Some areas of the volume were just too skimpy on detail to even approach accuracy.  The section on coastal defenses has barely two pages of text on the subject and omits a number of key facts.  First, the British lost the only three super-heavy batteries of artillery they had in France in June 1940.  The British quickly built some coastal batteries near Dover from odds and ends, but the author fails to mention the three 13.5\\" railroad guns that were employed.  The author also gives the impression that there was rough parity with the German coastal batteries near Calais; in fact, the Germans had a large superiority with 20 large-caliber guns versus less than 10 similar pieces on the British side.  The author is also inaccurate when he claimed that the Wanstone Battery was dismantled in 1957; while the guns themselves are gone, there are pictures on the Internet of the magazines and some others parts of the batteries taken in 2000.  Since the author notes that he has been part of a project to record Britain's remaining WW2 defenses, it seems odd that he missed something this large.  Despite this type of oversight, the volume still provides a useful summary, but it should be carefully vetted with other material to flesh out the details. <br />	2004-12-08
457373:US	52533596	R1CRFIJ9H2K9T	1841766836	370358895	Monongahela 1754–55: Washington’s defeat, Braddock’s disaster (Campaign)	Books	5	24	26	N	Y	Wilderness Power	Ren&eacute; Chartrand's Monongahela 1754-1755, #140 in Osprey's Campaign series, is another excellent volume on the Seven Years War in North America from the French perspective.  Chartrand brings his extensive knowledge on the subject, combined with an insightful writing style, to produce a fresh look on how the war started.  American readers will find this volume particularly interesting due to the critical role played by young Colonel George Washington.  Furthermore, readers will find that the standard succinct descriptions of Braddock's defeat have left out many important details, which Chartrand assiduously fills in.<br /><br />  The initial sections on background to the war, opposing leaders and opposing armies are good, and cover about 20 pages. In the section on opposing plans, Chartrand notes how the French relied on a defensive strategy based on \\"Wilderness Power\\" to deny the Ohio River valley to the British.  Essentially, the French center of gravity - in modern military parlance - was based upon their close relationship with the local Indian tribes.  The limited French military capabilities in the region were enhanced by adoption of local tactics and fast-moving river-borne communications; taken together, the Indian connections and willingness to adapt to local conditions gave the French military \\"Wilderness Power\\" that the conventional-minded British lacked.  On the other hand, Chartrand points out that the British relied on the doctrine of overwhelming force and the commitment of Braddock's army to western Pennsylvania represented an unprecedented act that was intended to overawe both the French and Indians.  Chartrand includes five 2-D maps (Situation in North America 1753-4; French forts in Ohio; Route of Braddock's army; the Monongahela, 9 July 1755; Situation in North America, Fall 1755) and three 3-D maps (Jumonville Glen and Fort Necessity; Monongahela ambush; Monongahela - the rout).  The three battle scenes are excellent: Fort Necessity, Braddock's defeat and Washington's rearguard. The 3-D maps utilize the new format, with grid lines and all text sequenced on one side of the page. Chartrand also includes an excellent order of battle, as well as interesting notes and photographs on the sites today.<br /><br />  Chartrand begins his campaign narrative by describing the Jumonville incident and the surrender of Fort Necessity in 1754, both incidents in which Washington was in command and failed.  Although the defeat at Fort Necessity was probably inevitable, the Jumonville incident is highly controversial and Chartrand treats this incident carefully (some other authors use this incident to denigrate Washington's integrity).  Chartrand covers Braddock's march westward in great detail and it is clear that despite the disastrous tactical outcome, Braddock and his staff were to be commended for the impressive logistic in moving an army with artillery over such terrain.  It is also clear that the French had little tactical plan to deal with Braddock's army, but they realized that if he got within artillery range of Fort Duquesne - their main base of operations in the area - that British victory was virtually assured.<br /><br />  As Chartrand interprets the battle that occurred on 9 July 1755 near the Monongahela River, both sides blundered into the fight due to poor reconnaissance.  Few other accounts mention that the British even had the better of the initial exchange and killed the French commander at the outset.  However, the British were caught in column and the Indians and Canadian militia swarmed down its flanks, ripping into the packed infantry masses with well-aimed fire.  In relatively short order, the British unit cohesion began to fall apart as casualties rapidly mounted and what began as a relatively simple ambush soon became a rout.  Nearly one-third of the Anglo-American army was killed, with most of the rest wounded.  Amazingly, Washington was the only senior officer unwounded and he held togethera rearguard that allowed many of the survivors to escape. Although the French won a complete victory, most of their Indian friends quickly went home with their spoils, leaving only a handful of Frenchmen to hold the area. Furthermore, French regular officers began to arrive in Canada and they preferred conventional tactics to the militia's \\"wilderness tactics.\\" The defeated British had also learned the lesson that more light forces were needed in this type of terrain and started to raise such units for the next effort, which would ultimately be successful. Thus, the French advantage of \\"Wilderness power\\" was relatively short-lived.ior officer unwounded and he held together a rearguard that allowed many of the survivors to escape. Although the French won a complete victory, most of their Indian friends quickly went home with their spoils, leaving only a handful of Frenchmen to hold the area. Furthermore, French regular officers began to arrive in Canada and they preferred conventional tactics to the militia's \\"wilderness tactics.\\" The defeated British had also learned the lesson that more light forces were needed in this type of terrain and started to raise such units for the next effort, which would ultimately be successful. Thus, the French advantage of \\"Wilderness power\\" was relatively short-lived.  <br />	2004-11-13
457416:US	52533596	R2A3NX0VZ5ISHD	1841767549	306333220	German Armies 1870–71 (1): Prussia (Men-at-Arms) (v. 1)	Books	2	17	25	N	Y	Sword Knots and All	Although I normally find the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-71 an interesting subject, I cannot say that Osprey's Men-at-Arms #416, German Armies 1870-71 (1), sparks much interest.  This volume on the Prussian armies, by Michael Solka, is so mired in intensely boring detail about Prussian uniforms that I found very little in these pages that was fresh or insightful.  If you want to read about the different types of sword knots or what color buttons Prussian dragoons wore, then this is your book but otherwise....<br /><br />  The best part of this volume is the detailed order of battle provided on the Prussian army for 1 August 1870; unfortunately, the author does not list Landwehr or reserve units that showed up for the winter campaigns in France. After that, the author spends most of the rest of the volume describing the uniforms and equipment (with only the barest details on equipment) of the cavalry and infantry.  Much smaller sections are provided on artillery and the other support branches.  Although the author provides bare outlines of unit organization, there is absolutely no mention of doctrine and the organization provides few details.  The author clearly missed a chance here to describe the strengths and weaknesses of the Prussian army.  Readers might also note that the cavalry branch gets considerably more attention than any other branch, despite the fact that most histories credit the superiority of the Prussian artillery as the decisive factor in the war.  The color plates are adequate, but not particularly informative; of the 25 figures shown, only one is a line infantryman - the kind that bore the brunt of the fighting (why Otto von Bismarck and the Kaiser are included is unknown, but they really weren't representative of field soldiers).<br /><br />  Some of the best notes actually came in the commentaries in the back on the color plates that listed some details of which units were in particular actions.  Readers might also note that very few of the photographs or illustrations depict Prussian troops in field or combat conditions. In short, this volume really doesn't address the issue of what the Prussian troops who actually fought the war looked like (why so little on winter uniforms - there was more fighting in the winter of 1870-1 than there was in the short summer campaign), or how they were organized or trained.  Instead, the author buries the reader with trivia about different colors of sword knots and other uniform distinctions - all to the detriment of providing anything like a balanced account on this subject. Osprey can do better than this, as evidenced by the recent MAA title on the Russo-Japanese War, but unfortunately the MAA series seems to be increasingly directed toward a smaller and smaller audience.ight also note that very few of the photographs or illustrations depict Prussian troops in field or combat conditions. In short, this volume really doesn't address the issue of what the Prussian troops who actually fought the war looked like (why so little on winter uniforms - there was more fighting in the winter of 1870-1 than there was in the short summer campaign), or how they were organized or trained.  Instead, the author buries the reader with trivia about different colors of sword knots and other uniform distinctions - all to the detriment of providing anything like a balanced account on this subject. Osprey can do better than this, as evidenced by the recent MAA title on the Russo-Japanese War, but unfortunately the MAA series seems to be increasingly directed toward a smaller and smaller audience.    <br />	2004-11-13
464942:US	52533596	R3TU8UFP987RJI	1841767611	443112933	German Field Fortifications 1939–45 (Fortress)	Books	4	20	20	N	Y	For the Specialist Reader	Gordon L. Rottman's German Field Fortifications 1939-1945 in Osprey's Fortress series is a dry, but comprehensive survey of the main German tactical defensive techniques in the Second World War.  This volume is a useful addition to cover the non-fixed (e.g. Atlantic Wall) defenses that the Germans used to defend their conquests.  While Rottman fails to provide much in the way of first-person type accounts, he has combed the contemporary field manuals and literature to provide a good overview of the subject.  This volume is not for the casual reader, but intended primarily for military readers seeking greater background on German defensive doctrine.<br /><br /> The volume consists of seven main sections: German tactical defense doctrine, planning the defense, defensive firepower, materials and construction methods, types of defensive positions, theater-specific defenses, and the fortifications at war.  The seven color plates in the volume are: a rifle platoon in defensive position; defense of a village; building a log machinegun bunker; a 20mm flak gun position; a squad strongpoint in the desert; an infantry battalion defensive sector and a company hilltop strongpoint. The author also provides a number of interesting sidebars on types of obstacles, German demolition charges and German divisional artillery.<br /><br /> Rottman begins with an interesting section on the German \\"elastic defense\\" doctrine and the gradual development of the sector defense.  Modern military readers will recognize the antecedents of current defensive doctrine in these German roots, particularly the concept of advanced positions and main battle lines. By the start of the Second World War the Germans had already developed a pretty solid defensive doctrine, which they further refined in the early years of the war.  However, Rottman notes that by the time the system was really put to the test in 1942-1943, the Germans found it difficult to execute their doctrine due to manpower shortages.  The shrinking German infantry units found it more and more difficult to build a viable sector defense and had to rely more upon ad hoc \\"strongpoint\\" type defenses.  Rottman adds some notes on interesting field expedients, such as the German discovery that ice blocks could make bullet-proof parapets in Russia and their use of portable saw mills to cut timber for fortifications.<br /><br /> Rottman attempts to provide examples of some successful defensive techniques, but not always with the detail that the reader might prefer.  His discussion of the German 6th Panzer Division's hasty construction of bunkers in Russia in the winter of 1941 using demolition charges is interesting, but some of the others are rather short. He does discuss German field works in North Africa, Italy, Russia and Normandy, albeit succinctly.  Rottman's dissection of a German battalion defense is excellent. The only area that I felt was a bit slighted was mine warfare, in terms of how did the Germans lay out their minefields and what was their capability to lay mines like at the regimental and division level.  Overall, this is a good volume on a specific subject, although designed primarily for the specialist reader.The shrinking German infantry units found it more and more difficult to build a viable sector defense and had to rely more upon ad hoc \\"strongpoint\\" type defenses.  Rottman adds some notes on interesting field expedients, such as the German discovery that ice blocks could make bullet-proof parapets in Russia and their use of portable saw mills to cut timber for fortifications.  <br /> <br /> Rottman attempts to provide examples of some successful defensive techniques, but not always with the detail that the reader might prefer.  His discussion of the German 6th Panzer Division's hasty construction of bunkers in Russia in the winter of 1941 using demolition charges is interesting, but some of the others are rather short. He does discuss German field works in North Africa, Italy, Russia and Normandy, albeit succinctly.  Rottman's dissection of a German battalion defense is excellent. The only area that I felt was a bit slighted was mine warfare, in terms of how did the Germans lay out their minefields and what was their capability to lay mines like at the regimental and division level.  Overall, this is a good volume on a specific subject, although designed primarily for the specialist reader.    <br />	2004-11-06
464997:US	52533596	R3PADYO68M60ZW	1841766410	747818669	Knight's Cross and Oak-Leaves Recipients 1939–40 (Elite) (v. 1)	Books	3	9	15	N	Y	Fighting for untruth, injustice and the Nazi Way	Seventeen years ago, Gordon Williamson wrote Knights of the Iron Cross, a history of German recipients of that award in the Second World War.  Now, Williamson is writing a multi-part version of his earlier work in the form of volumes in Osprey's Elite series.  The first volume covers Knights Cross recipients in the early days of the Second World.  Readers who own Williamson's earlier book will find much of the material is the same, although presented in a better graphical manner. This volume is certainly very colorful and should delight readers who enjoy photographs and illustrations of handsome Aryan warriors spreading the frontiers of the Third Reich.  I realize that there is a market for this material, but the volume tends to lean toward \\"hero worship\\" or glorification of men who were fighting for an awful cause.<br /><br /> Williamson begins with an 8-page introduction that describes the background of this award and all the details that medal aficionados might require.  This section also includes several very useful charts that detail the number of Knights Cross awarded by year, by branch and by rank. However, the bulk of this volume is geared toward the 24 capsule biographies of Knights Cross recipients in the period 1939-1940.  As Williamson notes, 461 medals were awarded in this period and he selected a representative sample. Unfortunately, it isn't a representative sample.  Of 24 individuals profiled, 11 were Luftwaffe, 5 each were in the Kriegsmarine or SS and only 3 were in the army.  While there is little doubt that the German navy and air force played large roles in the early years, this neglect of ground troops seems rather odd given the quick conquest of France.  Indeed, of the three German soldiers profiled, two (von Runstedt and Guderian) were senior officers, with only a single entry for a combat soldier (Major Stautner). Williamson fails to mention in this Osprey version that 20 of the 21 awards in 1939 went to senior officers with only Gunther Prien getting it for valor in the first year.  It is also odd that the SS, which was only a very tiny component of the German forces invading Poland or France, gets more prominent mention than the army.  It is also no accident that the volume prominently displays an \\"SS Hero\\" in action on its cover.<br /><br /> Williamson's volume does have its merits.  He notes that some of the recipients, such as Lieutenant Schwarzmann, were decorated more for propaganda reasons to create a \\"paratrooper hero.\\"  The career of Luftwaffe bomber expert Major Baumbach is also interesting, given the huge impact that he had upon Allied shipping (he sank more merchant ships than even the top U-Boat aces).  A number of the other Knights Cross recipients, such as E-Boat commander Petersen, made important but little-known contributions to the German war effort.  I did find one major item missing from this volume, which was a discussion of the \\"perks\\" that Nazi Germany gave to its heroes.  For example, Williamson only finds it pertinent to mention that medal given to Guderian, but he fails to mention the large estate given to him in Poland by a grateful Fuhrer.  Many of the other senior officer recipients received large cash awards, in addition to their medal. Others recipients were allowed to appropriate artwork and other precious items in conquered countries. If Williamson had made the effort to investigate some of these \\"perks\\" it would have been obvious that these \\"heroes\\" were fighting for untruth, injustice and the Nazi way.r Prien getting it for valor in the first year.  It is also odd that the SS, which was only a very tiny component of the German forces invading Poland or France, gets more prominent mention than the army.  It is also no accident that the volume prominently displays an \\"SS Hero\\" in action on its cover.  <br /> <br /> Williamson's volume does have its merits.  He notes that some of the recipients, such as Lieutenant Schwarzmann, were decorated more for propaganda reasons to create a \\"paratrooper hero.\\"  The career of Luftwaffe bomber expert Major Baumbach is also interesting, given the huge impact that he had upon Allied shipping (he sank more merchant ships than even the top U-Boat aces).  A number of the other Knights Cross recipients, such as E-Boat commander Petersen, made important but little-known contributions to the German war effort.  I did find one major item missing from this volume, which was a discussion of the \\"perks\\" that Nazi Germany gave to its heroes.  For example, Williamson only finds it pertinent to mention that medal given to Guderian, but he fails to mention the large estate given to him in Poland by a grateful Fuhrer.  Many of the other senior officer recipients received large cash awards, in addition to their medal. Others recipients were allowed to appropriate artwork and other precious items in conquered countries. If Williamson had made the effort to investigate some of these \\"perks\\" it would have been obvious that these \\"heroes\\" were fighting for untruth, injustice and the Nazi way.  <br />	2004-11-06
467390:US	52533596	R2348KJ8W9S81U	1841766259	237515263	Caen 1944: Montgomery’s break-out attempt (Campaign)	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	A Tale of Five Frustrating Offensives	With Osprey's Campaign #143,Caen 1944, Ken Ford follows-up his two earlier volumes in the series on the British D-Day beachheads.  As usual, Ford's narrative is solid and well supported by graphics and data.  Ford covers the five frustrating British offensives in June-July 1944 that ultimately captured the vital city of Caen but failed to achieve the desired breakout from the beachheads.  However, readers should keep in mind that another recent series - Pen & Sword's Battleground Europe series - has titles that cover the same ground, usually in greater detail.  While it is unfair to make a direct comparison between the 96-page Osprey format and the 192-page Pen & Sword Format, readers should be aware that Ford did not incorporate some of the material that makes the P&S volumes on Epsom, Hill 112 and Goodwood more original in content.  On the other hand, Ford summarizes five battles (Epsom, Windsor, Charnwood, Jupiter and Goodwood) in 96 pages that P&S did in almost 600 pages, so readers seeking an overview of the campaign would be better advised to stick to the Osprey version.<br /><br /> The introductory sections in Caen 1944 are a bit too superficial, with little effort to provide insightful analysis on the strength and weaknesses of both sides.  For example, Ford makes little comment on the limited extent of combined arms training in the British armor units prior to D-Day, but this clearly had an impact upon their early performance in Normandy. On the other hand, the desperate German shortage of decent infantry forced them to commit virtually all their armor to defensive missions, thereby robbing them of the initiative.  It is noteworthy that no German army infantry divisions played any major role in the five offensives around Caen, which is a telling indictment of where the German army was going in late 1944 (a handful of powerful, high-quality divisions and a bunch of low-quality, odds-and-ends cannon fodder divisions).  Ford's discussion of the operational-level issues hews to the company-line that Montgomery's intent always was to fix the German armor in the east while the Yanks broke out in the west, but ignores the facts that Montgomery failed to weight his main effort toward seizing Caen on D-Day and then dilly-dallied in the immediate 4-5 days after D-Day when the German defense around the city was still incomplete.  In fact, the Caen campaign bears a lot of similarities to Montgomery's later Operation Market-Garden in that he planned an operation that required considerable risk and boldness, then executed the plan in a very slow and cautious manner that resulted in high loss and failure. Graphically, this volume is excellent. The author provides four 2-D maps (first Allied moves on Caen; Operation Epsom; Operation Charnwood and the Operation Goodwood plan), three 3-D maps (counterattack by 12th SS Panzer on 7 June; Operation Jupiter and Operation Goodwood).  Osprey has improved the 3-D maps by adding 1-kilometer gridlines and moving all the text over to one side in sequence (it was always very frustrating to read the previous format, with events thrown helter-skelter all over the page), but at the cost of removing most of the 3-D effect and the elevation now seems pretty flat.  The three battle scenes by Peter Dennis (the Regina Rifles street fighting in Caen; 5th Wiltshires attack on Hill 112; Luftwaffe 88mm guns engaging British armor) are excellent.<br /><br /> Ford's account of the initial British moves on Caen in the period 7-13 June 1944 in the critical week after D-Day are surprisingly brief.  While his discussion of the 12th SS Panzer counterattack that stopped the Canadians from taking Carpiquet airfield on 7 June is excellent, he gives few details and no maps to display the 7th Armored Division drive to Villers Bocage or the 51st Highland attack east of the Orne.  Indeed, the two weeks after D-Day around Caen rate only a few short pages.  Instead, Ford focuses most of his intention on the big set-piece battles to get around Caen, which began with Operation Epsom on 24-30 June.  Ford admits Epsom achieved little, but he opines that \\"it did frustrate German plans to push the Allies back into the sea\\" but by this point everyone on the German side but Hitler realized that the best that could be hoped for was a stalemate. Ford's description of the next offensive - Operation Windsor to seize Carpiquet airfield - is very interesting; the Canadians committed a very reinforced brigade, complete with battleship support, to seize a small area held by only 150 Germans.  Amazingly, the Canadians failed to seize the entire airfield and suffered 4-1 casualties.  The next two battles, Jupiter and Charnwood, resulted in capture of part of Caen, but at the cost of over 5,000 casualties.<br /><br /> The climax of the Caen campaign was Operation Goodwood, which was either intended as a breakout or a battle of attrition. Ford's account of Goodwood is marred by inadequate research; for example, he claims that \\"the Germans had been able to pull their panzers out of the frontline\\" but in fact the 22nd Panzer Regiment and other 21st Panzer units were on the FEBA.  By missing this fact, Ford omits mention that the Allied carpet bombing clobbered quite a few German tanks, including several Tiger tanks. There doesn't seem to be much analysis here why Goodwood failed and the key question of whether the gains justified the losses remains unasked. However, Ford does mention that the Germans lost over 100 tanks on the first day of Goodwood (he may be counting assault guns and SP howitzers, too), which if true, means the Montgomery did succeed in whittling down some of the German armor.  Overall, Ford's volume is quite good and one of the better Osprey volumes in awhile, but readers interested in greater detail would be advised to read the recent Pen & Sword volumes as well.t-piece battles to get around Caen, which began with Operation Epsom on 24-30 June.  Ford admits Epsom achieved little, but he opines that \\"it did frustrate German plans to push the Allies back into the sea\\" but by this point everyone on the German side but Hitler realized that the best that could be hoped for was a stalemate. Ford's description of the next offensive - Operation Windsor to seize Carpiquet airfield - is very interesting; the Canadians committed a very reinforced brigade, complete with battleship support, to seize a small area held by only 150 Germans.  Amazingly, the Canadians failed to seize the entire airfield and suffered 4-1 casualties.  The next two battles, Jupiter and Charnwood, resulted in capture of part of Caen, but at the cost of over 5,000 casualties. <br /> <br /> The climax of the Caen campaign was Operation Goodwood, which was either intended as a breakout or a battle of attrition. Ford's account of Goodwood is marred by inadequate research; for example, he claims that \\"the Germans had been able to pull their panzers out of the frontline\\" but in fact the 22nd Panzer Regiment and other 21st Panzer units were on the FEBA.  By missing this fact, Ford omits mention that the Allied carpet bombing clobbered quite a few German tanks, including several Tiger tanks. There doesn't seem to be much analysis here why Goodwood failed and the key question of whether the gains justified the losses remains unasked. However, Ford does mention that the Germans lost over 100 tanks on the first day of Goodwood (he may be counting assault guns and SP howitzers, too), which if true, means the Montgomery did succeed in whittling down some of the German armor.  Overall, Ford's volume is quite good and one of the better Osprey volumes in awhile, but readers interested in greater detail would be advised to read the recent Pen & Sword volumes as well.  <br />	2004-11-04
476722:US	52533596	R2N19R2UINURD7	1841767263	315973388	‘Richthofen’s Circus’: Jagdgeschwader Nr 1 (Aviation Elite Units)	Books	4	33	37	N	N	Excellent History of one of most famous fighter units	Although the story of Germany's \\"Red Baron\\" - Baron Manfred von Richthofen - in the First World War is well known, the history of Germany's first fighter group that he formed is often obscured by his legendary aura.  In Osprey's Aviation Elite Units #16,  aviation enthusiast Greg VanWyngarden provides a detailed look into the pilots and aircraft that formed Jagdgeschwader Nr. 1 (or JG 1), the elite of the German fighter arm in the First World War.  Readers who are interested in early aviation history or aerial combat in the First World War will find a wealth of material in these 126 pages.  On the other hand, military readers expecting more analysis on the significance of JG 1's contribution to Germany's war effort or a look at the nuts and bolts of an early fighter wing will be disappointed.  Nevertheless, Richthofen's Circus: Jagdgeschwader Nr. 1 provides an excellent unit history of arguably one of the most famous fighter units of all times.<br /><br /> In the first chapter, the author provides background on the origin and formation of JG -1 in June 1917.  The wing was formed of four component squadrons: Jastas 4, 6, 10 and 11, giving JG-1 a total strength of about 50 fighters.  Germany was forced to form larger fighter units in 1917 because of the growing Allied numerical superiority in the air, which was approaching 3-1 or better. There are a couple of things here that the author should have mentioned to clarify the air picture. First, the British and Germans had radically different doctrines for employing fighters: while the British stressed offensive air patrols deep behind German lines (and thus losing more aircraft to flak), the Germans usually mounted only defensive patrols on their sides of the line. Thus, the Germans were usually content to knock down Allied reconnaissance aircraft (which degraded the effectiveness of Allied artillery), while the British were intent upon gaining air superiority.  The second point that the author neglects to mention is that despite the formation of JG-1, the Germans rarely held air superiority over even small portions of the front.<br /><br /> The next five chapters are essentially an operational history of the 16 months of JG-1 combat, focusing primarily upon the high-scoring pilots like the Richthofens (all three) and Udet.  The author also details the introduction of new aircraft, such as the Fokker Dr 1 triplane and the Fokker Dr VII; it is apparent from the comments of the German pilots that they felt increasingly outclassed by newer Allied fighters.  It is also apparent that the standard of German workmanship did not always live up to its reputation; the author notes numerous instances where faulty construction led to aircraft crashes, particularly in the Dr 1 (which only had an operational career of about 6 months).  Readers will particularly enjoy the numerous first-person accounts by German pilots about life in the squadron and aerial combat, as well as the excellent photographs that support the text.  The color plates, which detail the various aircraft models and personal schemes of many JG 1 aircraft, are also excellent.<br /><br /> Unfortunately, the author makes virtually no effort to analyze JG-1's contribution to the German war effort, other than noting that the unit was credited with 644 victories and suffered 121 casualties (thus implying a 5-1 or better kill ratio).  Overall in 1914-1918, the Germans shot down 3 Allied aircraft for each of their own lost, so it seems likely that JG-1 was indeed an elite unit, which seems obvious given that it received the best pilots and aircraft available.  However, even if all of the 644 victories were accurate (and the author notes several claims that were later invalidated), the unit shot down less than 1% of all Allied aircraft lost in the war.  This German tendency to create elite units occurred in both world wars and it tended to strip other line units of personnel and equipment in order to create prestige units.  While JG-1had several very high-scoring pilots, it does not seem that the formation of the unit had any great material impact upon the war.  It is also noticeable that by late 1918, most of the veteran pilots were gone and the unit had been whittled down to an average of only 10-12 aircraft.<br /><br /> The other area that the author avoids is the innards of JG-1.  While the author lavishes much space upon the glamorous fighter pilots (several of whom get their own full-page sidebar), the humble mechanics and ground crews that kept the planes flying are all but ignored.  It would have been nice to know how the Germans maintained their operations tempo, but this is impossible without looking at the ground component.  Some type of line and block chart or equipment table would have been handy.  How did JG-1 move to new airfields? Surely the ground crews had to move fuel, ammunition and spares, but how? Nor is there any mention of the pilot to aircraft ratio, which would also improve our understanding of German optempo.  It would also have been useful if the author had provided a map with the bases and operational area for JG-1.  However, despite this myopia, Richthofen's Circus: Jagdgeschwader Nr. 1 is a worthwhile part of any library on the First World War.ile JG-1 had several very high-scoring pilots, it does not seem that the formation of the unit had any great material impact upon the war.  It is also noticeable that by late 1918, most of the veteran pilots were gone and the unit had been whittled down to an average of only 10-12 aircraft.   <br /> <br /> The other area that the author avoids is the innards of JG-1.  While the author lavishes much space upon the glamorous fighter pilots (several of whom get their own full-page sidebar), the humble mechanics and ground crews that kept the planes flying are all but ignored.  It would have been nice to know how the Germans maintained their operations tempo, but this is impossible without looking at the ground component.  Some type of line and block chart or equipment table would have been handy.  How did JG-1 move to new airfields? Surely the ground crews had to move fuel, ammunition and spares, but how? Nor is there any mention of the pilot to aircraft ratio, which would also improve our understanding of German optempo.  It would also have been useful if the author had provided a map with the bases and operational area for JG-1.  However, despite this myopia, Richthofen's Circus: Jagdgeschwader Nr. 1 is a worthwhile part of any library on the First World War. <br />	2004-10-26
495103:US	52533596	RBMQY0OCYC9AE	1841765848	956261163	US Army in the Plains Indian Wars 1865–1891 (Battle Orders)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	An excellent dissection of the US Army in the Plains Wars	Osprey's new Battle Orders series is continuing to evolve as a hybrid, somewhere between the earlier Order of Battle series, the Elite series and the Campaign series.  So far, each volume in this new series seems to have been put together with a different methodology.  Dr. Clayton K S Chun, a lecturer at the US Army War College, offers keen insight into the evolution of the US Army in the period in between the end of the Civil War and prior to the Spanish-American War.  Unlike other volumes in the Battle Order series, Dr. Chun does not try to describe the campaigns of the units in question, but focuses almost exclusively on the organization, doctrine and training of the frontier army.  Despite the title, this volume is less about the Indian Wars per se than the slow transformation of the US regular army into a more professional force in the late 19th Century. Modern US Army readers might want to consider how the regular army in the late 19th Century dealt with an elusive foe, nation-building and a myriad of other civic tasks - all familiar to American soldiers today in Iraq and Afghanistan.<br /><br /> Dr. Chun begins his study of the frontier army with a short introduction and an enumeration of the mission of each of its three principle branches (infantry, cavalry and artillery).  Readers conditioned to thinking that the frontier army was composed primarily of cavalry will be surprised to see that it constituted only 37% of the actual strength in 1876; the much-cheaper infantry was 50% and the all-but-ignored artillery branch was 12%.  Dr. Chun then spends seven interesting pages discussing the doctrine and training of the frontier army; as Chun notes, the army's leadership was focused on preparing for war against a European foe and did not believe that intermittent conflict with Indian tribes (i.e. \\"low intensity conflict\\") warranted any significant doctrinal revisions.  The army's leadership was shaped by the total war mentality of the recent Civil War and held any form of \\"police actions\\" in low regard.  However, the basis of frontier doctrine rested on a belief in the offensive, executed by converging columns and winter attacks.  General Sherman began to change US strategy in 1867 from \\"pacification\\" to \\"total war upon hostiles.\\" Chun notes that the strategy evolved into \\"selective totality\\" - where the reservation system was used to contain the Indians and the US Army was used to punish tribes that left the reservation.<br /><br /> The heart of this volume lies in the 32 pages that Dr. Chun devotes to unit organization, which has maps and line and block charts that depict all the major US Army posts and unit dispositions in the West for the years 1867, 1876 and 1884. For example, a reader could find that in 1876 there were two companies of the 19th Infantry with 99 soldiers stationed at Fort Lyon in Colorado.  Dr. Chun also details the organization of infantry, cavalry and artillery units from regimental down to squad level. There is a wealth of information in this section, including statistics on desertion (one-third of all enlistments between 1867-1891 ended in desertion; the desertion rate on the Plains was 25-40%, whereas it had only been 14% in the Civil War), cuts in pay and strength authorizations by Congress, frontier posts and Indian scouts.<br /><br /> Dr. Chun also provides a lengthy section on tactics, which indicates that while French Napoleonic-era influences were still strong, Army officers on the frontier were adapting to local circumstances.  A good deal of this section focuses on the work of Emory Upton in codifying a post-Civil War doctrine for the US Army; Upton was important for introducing standardized marksmanship training and an attempt to standardize tactical training (previously, mostly done at unit level).  Dr. Chun notes throughout this volume that the greatest weakness of the frontier army was inadequate training, although this was beginning to improve by the end of the 19th Century.  Although Upton's ideas helped to increase professionalism in the US Army, some of his ideas - such as the concept of \\"fours\\" - did not work. The next section, on weapons and equipment is also quite good and details how the Army was plagued with surplus equipment and inadequate funds for new development.  Final sections on C3I and unit status for each regiment (including tables on authorized and actual strength) round out the volume.  Readers expecting a discussion of individual campaigns such as the Little Bighorn will be disappointed (although there is no shortage of other works on that subject), but Dr. Chun's volume is an excellent dissection of the US Army in the Plains Wars.  In fact, I noticed only one significant omission in this volume, namely that the maps did not depict railroads or any civilian towns or cities; it would have been useful to compare the dispositions of the US Army in 1867-1891 with the westward progression of civilization.tury.  Although Upton's ideas helped to increase professionalism in the US Army, some of his ideas - such as the concept of \\"fours\\" - did not work. The next section, on weapons and equipment is also quite good and details how the Army was plagued with surplus equipment and inadequate funds for new development.  Final sections on C3I and unit status for each regiment (including tables on authorized and actual strength) round out the volume.  Readers expecting a discussion of individual campaigns such as the Little Bighorn will be disappointed (although there is no shortage of other works on that subject), but Dr. Chun's volume is an excellent dissection of the US Army in the Plains Wars.  In fact, I noticed only one significant omission in this volume, namely that the maps did not depict railroads or any civilian towns or cities; it would have been useful to compare the dispositions of the US Army in 1867-1891 with the westward progression of civilization.   <br />	2004-10-10
495859:US	52533596	R2TVXJCFTBIHAN	1841767743	201539494	Dunbar 1650: Cromwell’s most famous victory (Campaign)	Books	3	10	12	N	Y	Better than Auldearn 1645	Stuart Reid's latest Osprey campaign volume, Dunbar 1650, is a considerable improvement over his last volume on Auldearn 1645.  Not only is Dunbar 1650 supported by better research than the previous volume, but Reid's prose has returned to its normal control of the subject.  While the question of whether Dunbar was Cromwell's \\"most famous victory\\" may trouble some readers, this volume does address this less well-known campaign in some detail.<br /><br /> Reid's initial sections on origins of the campaign, opposing plans/leaders and armies are decent.  The illustrations of Scottish uniforms are much better in this volume than the previous volume on Auldearn, although there are far too many illustrations of Scottish regimental flags.  The five 2-D maps are: Scotland 1650; the Carbisdale campaign April 1650; Cromwell's initial advance on Edinburgh; Cromwell's second advance on Edinburgh; Dunbar endgame. The three 3-D BEV maps are: the ambush at Carbisdale; two on Battle of Dunbar.  The three battle scenes are: the fortified lines at Leith; the cavalry action at Musselburgh; last stand of Lawer's brigade at Dunbar. The author provides an unusually lengthy order of battle for Dunbar, particularly for the Scottish army.<br /><br /> While Reid's campaign narrative is solid and informing, the Dunbar campaign is unlikely to be very intriguing for military readers.  Cromwell massed his forces and smashed the Scottish right wing, then rolled up the rest of their army in short order.  The battle was so incredibly one-sided, with the Scots losing perhaps 6,000 men against 30-40 English, that military readers will find little advantage in studying this affair.  Thus, Reid's volume is best suited for readers interested in 17th Century warfare (from the point of view of heraldry, units) or Scottish history.  However, while reading Reid's account, I noticed that there was no mention of Borthwick Castle, located south of Edinburgh.  In 1995 I visited Borthwick Castle and was struck by the damage caused on one side by Cromwell's artillery (as related by the staff there).  Apparently, the castle was attacked by Cromwell's forces in his initial drive on Edinburgh.  Why is this incident not related in these pages?by the damage caused on one side by Cromwell's artillery (as related by the staff there).  Apparently, the castle was attacked by Cromwell's forces in his initial drive on Edinburgh.  Why is this incident not related in these pages?	2004-10-09
502725:US	52533596	ROY1TPB8B338Z	1841766828	824210682	Seven Days Battles 1862 (Campaign 133)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	An Excellent Summary	Angus Konstam, a very prolific and efficient Osprey author, follows up his campaign title Fair Oaks 1862 with its sequel, Seven Days Battles 1862.  This campaign title is significantly different from the earlier volume in several respects.  Konstam's pro-Confederate bias is somewhat less evident than the earlier volume and he lays fair criticism against Confederate mistakes that robbed them of the chance for a decisive victory.  Konstam also spends much less time in this volume discussing Union General McClellan's wavering willpower - he assumes from the start that McClellan has lost the will to win and is merely reactive to Confederate General Lee's offensive. Finally, the advent of General Robert E. Lee and the newly christened Army of Northern Virginia puts the spotlight more on Confederate forces than in the previous volume.  Konstam's narrative is clean and well supported by maps and data.  This is an excellent summarized military history.<br /><br /> The introductory sections are more succinct than usual because Konstam covered much of the same ground in the Fair Oaks volume, and readers who require more background should get both volumes.  In the section on opposing plans, Konstam focuses on Lee's risky plan to strip most of the forces defending Richmond in order to achieve mass and crush McClellan's right flank, then to cut the Union lines of communication.  According to Konstam, Lee's planning was aided by Union inactivity but undermined by poor Confederate staff work, lack of the corps level of command, inadequate reconnaissance and \\"Stonewall\\" Jackson's lethargic execution of orders. While Konstam is probably correct that Lee's plan was \\"superbly imaginative,\\" he never really discusses what McClellan was planning.  What if Lee had not attacked? Given the three weeks of Union inactivity after Fair Oaks, it is not clear that McClellan was really planning to make any further offensive moves.  In fact, McClellan's approach to Richmond looks suspiciously like a \\"demonstration,\\" intended to get the Rebel leaders to the negotiating table, rather than to achieve a military victory.<br /><br /> The maps in this volume are some of the best that I have seen in an Osprey title for a while, and they support the author's narrative.  The five 2-D maps are: strategic situation in the eastern theater, June 1862; operational situation in the Virginia peninsula, 25 June 1862; Lee attacks, 26-27 June 1862; retreat to the James, 28-30 June 1862; Battle of Malvern Hill. The three 3-D BEV maps are: the Battle of Mechanicsville; the Battle of Gaine's Mill; the Battle of Frayser's Farm.  The three battle scenes are: the attack of Pender's Brigade at Mechanicsville; the charge of the 4th Texas at Gaine's Mill; Union artillery at Malvern Hill. The author also provides a detailed order of battle and bibliography.<br /><br /> Lee's offensive resulted in five corps-size battles fought over a six-day period (the \\"seven days\\" was a bit of a misnomer, but it stuck): Mechanicsville, Gaine's Mill, Savage Station, Frayers's Farm, and Malvern Hill.  Although Lee achieved his objective of removing the Union threat to the Confederate capital, he failed to destroy the Union Army of the Potomac and Confederate losses were actually heavier.  Tactically, the Confederate won only a single engagement, achieved stalemates in two and were thoroughly beaten in two; a 20% success rate is not normally indicative of a successful campaign.  Yet Lee's campaign was successful because McClellan decided to begin falling back from Richmond after the first battle - which was a Union victory; Konstam describes the campaign as \\"less a victory for the genius of Robert E. Lee and rather the result of the Union commander losing his nerve.\\"<br /><br /> Several trends are apparent in this narrative that would have future implications for the Confederacy against other Union commanders.  Lee was a bold, aggressive leader but his control over his subordinates was overly loose and hewas willing to take risks despite inadequate intelligence about the enemy and terrain.  The Confederate army had a difficult time mounting coordinated multi-unit attacks that Konstam blames on the lack of corps staff, but even once they gained corps in 1863, the same problem would appear at Gettysburg.  Lee's cavalry commander, \\"Jeb\\" Stuart, gained fame by \\"riding around the Union army\\" but he actually provided little or no information on the terrain and enemy immediately in front of Lee's army - a problem that would cost the Confederacy dearly in the future.  Finally, the Confederate army - for all its prowess - had great difficulty in defeating a prepared Union defense.  It is often ignored that the Union army excelled at using terrain and fieldworks to build virtually impenetrable defenses and that artillery was properly used to cover obstacles.  The Confederate army may have been better at operational and tactical maneuvering, but the Union army was extremely effective in the defense.  Finally, Lee's health was already an issue in his first campaign, and he ceded some authority to Longstreet at Malvern Hill because he wasn't feeling well; the result was a series of stupid, uncoordinated frontal assaults that cost the Confederacy over 5,000 men.  It was a preview of Picket's Charge one year later.  It is also clear that the Confederacy had no answer to the quantity and quality of the Union artillery.loose and he was willing to take risks despite inadequate intelligence about the enemy and terrain.  The Confederate army had a difficult time mounting coordinated multi-unit attacks that Konstam blames on the lack of corps staff, but even once they gained corps in 1863, the same problem would appear at Gettysburg.  Lee's cavalry commander, \\"Jeb\\" Stuart, gained fame by \\"riding around the Union army\\" but he actually provided little or no information on the terrain and enemy immediately in front of Lee's army - a problem that would cost the Confederacy dearly in the future.  Finally, the Confederate army - for all its prowess - had great difficulty in defeating a prepared Union defense.  It is often ignored that the Union army excelled at using terrain and fieldworks to build virtually impenetrable defenses and that artillery was properly used to cover obstacles.  The Confederate army may have been better at operational and tactical maneuvering, but the Union army was extremely effective in the defense.  Finally, Lee's health was already an issue in his first campaign, and he ceded some authority to Longstreet at Malvern Hill because he wasn't feeling well; the result was a series of stupid, uncoordinated frontal assaults that cost the Confederacy over 5,000 men.  It was a preview of Picket's Charge one year later.  It is also clear that the Confederacy had no answer to the quantity and quality of the Union artillery.   <br />   <br />	2004-10-02
508992:US	52533596	R1MD5OCRPK16R6	1841764981	469376102	German Battleships 1939–45 (New Vanguard)	Books	3	32	34	N	N	Cost Too Much, Achieved Too Little	In Osprey's New Vanguard #71, Gordon Williamson outlines the career of the six German battleships in the Second World War, ranging from the two elderly pre-dreadnoughts, to the powerful \\"Scharnhorst\\" and \\"Bismarck\\" classes.  Like the other volumes in Williamson's series on the German WW2 Kriegsmarine warships, the technical data and career summaries are rather brief, but probably useful for someone in need of an overview of the various warship classes.<br /><br /> As in the other volumes in this series, Williamson provides brief background on the construction of each member of these classes and a summary of its operational history.  The coverage of the two pre-dreadnoughts is particularly brief, given their minimal role in the Second World War.  The color plates include: the Schleswig-Holstein class; Scharnhorst in action; a plan view of the Scharnhorst; a cutaway of the Bismarck; Gneisenau post-refit; Bismarck in action; and Tirpitz.  The photographs in the volume are decent but unlike his other volumes, the author has not provided a bibliography.<br /><br /> Williamson's coverage of the careers of the four main German battleships is conventional.  The Germans probably got their best results from any warship class from the Scharnhorst and Gneisenau, which together sank one British aircraft carrier, two destroyers and 19 merchantmen of 115,000 tons; for an investment of over $115 million, Germany eliminated about $32 million worth of Allied shipping.  The Bismarck, although she sank the British battlecruiser Hood, had an operational life of only nine exciting days.  The Tirpitz made a career out of hiding in various Norwegian holes and accomplished nothing but the illusion of tying down part of the British fleet (illusory because the British fleet was extremely active, defeating the U-Boats, escorting invasion convoys, etc). All told, Germany invested $267 million in its four battleships - a not inconsiderable sum in its day - and sank a total of 178,000 tons of Allied vessels worth perhaps $56 million. Thus, in terms of cost-effectiveness, the four German battleships were a huge waste of Germany's resources that did not justify their creation.<br /><br /> Williamson does mention that the \\"Scharnhorst\\" class was \\"fundamentally flawed\\" because it was \\"under-gunned,\\" had an unreliable power plant and had poor sea-keeping qualities.  He also claims that the \\"Bismarck\\" class was obsolete when it was launched and that battleships themselves were anachronisms, due to their vulnerability to aircraft.  These \\"technical\\" criticisms are unfair.  Both the Scharnhorst and Gneisenau proved their quality as warships in their Atlantic sortie of early 1941.  The 11-inch guns of this class were only \\"under-gunned\\" if one was thinking of engaging British battleships, for which the Scharnhorst class was not intended.  I think the only obvious technical problem with these classes was the clumsy secondary armament arrangement, with the 150mm and 105mm guns on both classes.  US battleships used 127mm guns in twin mounts for both the secondary surface and AA roles, and this saved weight and simplified fire control.<br /><br /> The real problem with the German battleships, aside from their innate cost-ineffectiveness, was the inadequate German naval doctrine.  The Germans simply thought of these magnificent warships as great beasts of prey that would swoop out into the Atlantic and - hopefully- sink Allied convoys.  Years ago, Soviet naval analysis seemed to hit the nail on the head - the Germans lost the Battle of the Atlantic because they failed to use combined arms tactics.  Magnificent ships like the Bismarck fought and died virtually alone.  It is really amazing how little effort the Germans made to coordinate U-Boats, long-range aircraft (Fw-200s) and surface raiders.  Would the Bismarck have seemed like such an anachronism if the aircraft carrier Graf Zeppelin had been completed? Certainly a German battle squadron with a couple battleships anda carrier would have been a nightmare for the British to hunt down.  Although Hitler had some influence upon the timing of major fleet operations and warship construction, it was the Naval High Command and Admiral Raeder who mismanaged the carrier construction effort and the coordination of U-Boats and surface raiders.  It was inadequate doctrine and poor operational planning that doomed the German battleships, not technical difficulties.e battleships and a carrier would have been a nightmare for the British to hunt down.  Although Hitler had some influence upon the timing of major fleet operations and warship construction, it was the Naval High Command and Admiral Raeder who mismanaged the carrier construction effort and the coordination of U-Boats and surface raiders.  It was inadequate doctrine and poor operational planning that doomed the German battleships, not technical difficulties.    <br />	2004-09-27
509847:US	52533596	R32XYHKUIBP7Y5	1841766623	600690428	1: World War II Infantry Tactics: Squad and Platoon (Elite)	Books	3	70	78	N	Y	Seems to Miss the Essence of This Subject	Dr. Stephen Bull, a British museum curator and author of two volumes on WW1 trench warfare in Osprey's Elite series, attempts to outline the essence of Second World War infantry tactics in two new volumes in the Elite series.  In the first volume, Dr. Bull addresses squad and platoon tactics of the US, Britain and Germany.  Although this volume is graphically attractive and appears comprehensive, it essentially drives by the subject at a high rate of speed, accepting questionable popular theories and failing to draw appropriate conclusions.  Indeed, while Dr. Bull's grasp of weaponry appears sound, his grasp of small unit tactics seems superficial and fixated on \\"sexy\\" topics like snipers and hand-to-hand combat.<br /><br />  Dr. Bull draws his material from three sources: official training manuals from the period, veterans accounts and secondary works.  In the first section, Dr. Bull addresses the soldier's experience (casualty rates, combat fatigue, physical demands); this section really isn't necessary for discussing tactics but appears influenced by John Keegan's Face of Battle methodology.  At any rate, Dr Bull uses a variety of anecdotal evidence from different British and American infantry units to suggest that infantry losses in 1944-1945 were as heavy or worse than that experienced in 1916-1918.  Dr. Bull misses the point - it is not the quantity of loss as much as the quality of losses that really matters.  As three D-Day veterans told me, \\"our leadership bled away rapidly in combat.\\"  Replacing ten privates who took three months to train is fairly easy, but replacing one combat-experienced NCO or junior officer is much tougher. At any rate, while it is clear that \\"the poor bloody infantry\\" always suffers the most, it is not clear how this section adds to a discussion of tactics.  It would have been more appropriate to discuss the training of squad and platoon leaders - and how this differed between the three armies - than to discuss individual soldier issues better left to the Warrior series.<br /><br />  The next section on Training has some useful material on camouflage, physical training, individual movement techniques (IMT), and battle drills, but also includes garbage on hand-to-hand combat \\"techniques,\\" including kicking, eye-gouging and \\"anti-hair pulling tactics.\\"  Basics are ignored: how much marksmanship training did the average WW2 infantryman get before battle? What was medical care like? I bet the average British or US platoon was better fed than the average German platoon in 1944-1945.  The author also ignores other important (but mundane) issues such as noise/light/litter discipline, mission preparation, rehearsals and tactical adaptability. The section on \\"The Squad Ethos\\" parrots the near-axiomatic notion that soldiers only fight for their buddies and ignores the fact that officers and NCOs have other motives.  If officers sought to protect their men, they could not order attacks that risked heavy losses.  Officers are, in fact, usually motivated by some kind of higher purpose (ideology, careerism, etc).  The section on squad organization and weapons details the US, German  and British squads, although there is little effort to distinguish between \\"leg,\\" mechanized and airborne squads. Nor does Dr. Bull ever mention that squads are mere tactical building blocks - they normally do not conduct independent operations.  The whole idea of \\"squad tactics\\" is a bit artificial, since even squad-size patrols or ambushes are usually part of a larger unit operation.<br /><br /> The heart is this volume is the seven pages on squad offensive and defensive tactics, and it focuses almost exclusively on the hasty variants. I was amazed that Dr. Bull hardly mentions patrolling or ambush tactics - the bread and butter of small unit infantry operations.  Deliberate assaults, with external fire support or engineers, are ignored and there is virtually no mention of tank-infantry cooperation.  Somehow, in his ellipiticalway in approaching this subject, Dr. Bull obscures the fundamental essence of offensive tactics, which is find 'em, fix 'em, flank 'em, f--- 'em.  Bull is also a little flippant with terminology, comparing an assault to \\"temporary insanity\\" - a proper assault requires a very rationale thought processes, not a bunch of out-of-control impulses. Bull quotes one apparently trigger-happy veteran who talked about the \\"excitement of constantly stuffing fresh ammunition into the magazines and blazing away\\" - not a good example. I think Dr. Bull has confused infantry tactics with Telly Savalas' character in \\"The Dirty Dozen.\\" As for defensive tactics, Dr. Bull suggests that advance posts could be \\"within about 2,000 yards of a main position\\" which is nonsense - well beyond range of organic weapons and how could they communicate? LP/OPs should be within range of one's own weapons - about 300-500 meters at the squad level.<br /><br />  The section on the Platoon almost appears to be an afterthought and it is only 23% of the volume, and half of that focuses on snipers.  Key questions, like how support weapons should be used or squads employed (the two up one back standard) get remarkably little attention.  Several of the color plates are also a bit suspect.  The plate depicting a US rifle platoon in the defense shows a position with no forward security (LP/OP) and located on the crest of a small hill (not the \\"military crest\\"), which means the men would be skylined and highly vulnerable.  Both the platoon leader and platoon sergeant are depicted at a considerable distance from the machinegun team, but experience showed that the platoon leader would locate himself close to this vital weapon.  The plate on the German defensive position in Normandy is also a bit deceptive, since it suggests that the Germans typically burrowed holes through hedgerows for all their riflemen.  I visited the remnants of a German company-size position near St. Lo in Normandy in June 1989 and was surprised at the relative crudity of the position.  Even after 45 years, it was obvious that the Germans had cut simple holes through the TOP of the hedgerows.his ellipitical way in approaching this subject, Dr. Bull obscures the fundamental essence of offensive tactics, which is find 'em, fix 'em, flank 'em, f--- 'em.  Bull is also a little flippant with terminology, comparing an assault to \\"temporary insanity\\" - a proper assault requires a very rationale thought processes, not a bunch of out-of-control impulses. Bull quotes one apparently trigger-happy veteran who talked about the \\"excitement of constantly stuffing fresh ammunition into the magazines and blazing away\\" - not a good example. I think Dr. Bull has confused infantry tactics with Telly Savalas' character in \\"The Dirty Dozen.\\" As for defensive tactics, Dr. Bull suggests that advance posts could be \\"within about 2,000 yards of a main position\\" which is nonsense - well beyond range of organic weapons and how could they communicate? LP/OPs should be within range of one's own weapons - about 300-500 meters at the squad level.   <br /> <br />       The section on the Platoon almost appears to be an afterthought and it is only 23% of the volume, and half of that focuses on snipers.  Key questions, like how support weapons should be used or squads employed (the two up one back standard) get remarkably little attention.  Several of the color plates are also a bit suspect.  The plate depicting a US rifle platoon in the defense shows a position with no forward security (LP/OP) and located on the crest of a small hill (not the \\"military crest\\"), which means the men would be skylined and highly vulnerable.  Both the platoon leader and platoon sergeant are depicted at a considerable distance from the machinegun team, but experience showed that the platoon leader would locate himself close to this vital weapon.  The plate on the German defensive position in Normandy is also a bit deceptive, since it suggests that the Germans typically burrowed holes through hedgerows for all their riflemen.  I visited the remnants of a German company-size position near St. Lo in Normandy inJune 1989 and was surprised at the relative crudity of the position.  Even after 45 years, it was obvious that the Germans had cut simple holes through the TOP of the hedgerows.    <br />	2004-09-26
510015:US	52533596	RMU5DZ025T5QD	1841765031	873416237	German Light Cruisers 1939–45 (New Vanguard)	Books	3	11	13	N	N	The Barnacle Collectors	Osprey's New Vanguard #84, German Light Cruisers 1939-1945, is another addition to Gordon Williamson's series on the various classes of German warships in the Second World War....and a sad tale it is.  In this volume, Williamson covers the construction, career and fate of the Kriegsmarine's six light cruisers: the Emden; the three \\"K\\" class (Konigsberg, Koln, Karslshrue); the Nurnberg and the Leipzig. Unlike other famous units like the Bismarck and the Graf Spee, these ships achieved no fame in the Second World War and their existence was essentially superfluous after the first year of the war.<br /><br /> As in the other volumes in this series, Williamson provides a brief summary of the reduced state of the German Navy in the interwar period and the gradual introduction of new warship classes as German rearmament accelerated.  Williamson provides details on each of the light cruisers, beginning with the Emden - the first major German warship built after the First World War (but obsolete before the next war). However, the main units in this type were the five modern cruisers built between 1929-1935.  As Williamson notes, these ships were still influenced by naval agreements, limiting their size.  The first six months of the war were a disaster for the German light cruiser force, with two sunk and two damaged; only one cruiser was operational by the summer of 1940.  Thereafter, the remaining cruisers were mostly used as training ships and in extremis in the last days of the war, for naval gunfire support.  Williamson concludes that the light cruisers were the least successful of all German warships, which is incontestable in that they never sank or even damaged a single Allied vessel.<br /><br /> The color plates in this volume depict the Emden, the Konigsberg sinking, the Leipzig, and a cutaway of the Nurnberg.  Unfortunately, flaws in the plate of the sinking of the Konigsberg indicates that the author's research was less than thorough; a photograph of the sinking in Whitley's book about German cruisers (cited in the bibliography) shows significant differences.  Williamson's narrative also includes a number of other easily avoided errors; for example, he says the Konigsberg was sunk by five 100 lb bombs - they were actually 500 lb bombs.  His description of the salvaging of the Konigsberg is also inaccurate. He says the Karslshrue was sunk by two torpedoes, but other accounts say it was one.  Didn't Williamson read the books he lists in his bibliography?  Apparently, not.<br /><br /> As usual, Williamson's \\"technical data\\" is pretty skimpy, with no mention of the costs of these ships, armor protection, ammunition or fuel capacity, or engine specifics.  Williamson claims that these light cruisers were too \\"flimsy\\" and structurally unsound for high seas operations and thus, were ill suited to major combat operations.  However, if Williamson had made the effort to compare the German light cruisers to similar Allied warships, like the British \\"Leander\\" class, readers might have seen that these assertions of technical inferiority were not reliable.  In virtually every major aspect, the \\"K\\" class compared favorably with the \\"Leander\\" class (and his class was very active in the Royal Navy in the Second World War).  Instead of blaming phony technical disparities, Williamson should have looked more closely at doctrinal deficiencies in explaining the failure of Germany's light cruisers.  The ships were built as \\"scouting cruisers\\" which was a legacy of the High Seas Fleet thinking of 1905-1916, but which had no place in the much smaller German Navy of 1939-1941.  Without the possibility of major fleet actions, the German naval doctrine had no real place for light cruisers - too small for independent operations, too short-ranged to keep up with the major fleet units and too big to risk in coastal operations (two were torpedoed on a mine-laying sortie). It is also apparent that the German Naval High Command lacked the imagination to think of new uses for these warships and simply dumped them on the training command.  The remaining units of this class could have been used against the Murmansk convoys, which passed fairly close to the Norwegian bases.  Germany spent over $50 million - enough to have bought several flotillas of U-Boats - on a squadron of barnacle-collectors.to think of new uses for these warships and simply dumped them on the training command.  The remaining units of this class could have been used against the Murmansk convoys, which passed fairly close to the Norwegian bases.  Germany spent over $50 million - enough to have bought several flotillas of U-Boats - on a squadron of barnacle-collectors. <br />	2004-09-25
511446:US	52533596	R2VWYQCJWXURXZ	1841765864	817450043	Continental Infantryman of the American Revolution (Warrior)	Books	3	11	13	N	Y	They Served and Suffered	As John Milsop notes in Osprey Warrior #68, Continental Infantryman of the American Revolution, the Americans raised three distinct armies during the War for Independence: militia, state troops and the Continentals.  It was George Washington's dream to raise and equip an all-volunteer and professional army that could best the British redcoats on the battlefield, but circumstances continually frustrated the realization of that aspiration.  The Continental Army that did emerge, as described by Milsop, was often dressed in ragged uniforms and poorly fed, but willing to soldier on.  Indeed, Milsop concludes that \\"the willingness of the Continental infantry to endure privation may have contributed as much to final victory as did their skill on the battlefield.\\"  Although much of this volume covers fairly familiar material for anyone familiar with the American soldier in the Revolution, Milsop is able to retain the reader's interest by carefully weaving first-person accounts into a coherent narrative.<br /><br /> Continental Infantryman of the American Revolution begins with 5-6 page sections on the enlistment, training and equipment of the American regulars.  Milsop's comment that \\"the absence of field sanitation and basic cleanliness promoted sickness, weakening the fighting power of the army\\" highlights an under-appreciated vulnerability of the American forces (oftentimes, historians attach too much significance to alleged American tactical clumsiness or skill, rather than basic meat-and-potato soldier skills). Most readers familiar with the American Revolution will be aware of Von Steuben's drill instruction at Valley Forge, but few will be aware - as Milsop details - his efforts to reform American camp procedures, including latrine digging. Apparently, about the only equipment that the American soldier had a decent supply of was muskets or rifles, but the Continentals were desperately short of uniforms and footwear.  Camp life was tough on the Continentals, who were usually hungry and paid with almost worthless paper currency.  Mutiny was fairly common and Milsop notes that one particularly large mutiny in 1781 cost the Continentals more men than any single battle of the war.  The remainder of Milsop's narrative includes sections on campaigning, belief and belonging, the experience of battle and notes on museums.<br /><br /> The color plates in the volume are: a private from the Commander-in-Chief's Guard, 1778; Von Steuben drilling at Valley Forge; the night attack at Stony Point; the New Windsor cantonment; four starving Continentals; the charge of the Deleware-Maryland Battalion at Cowpens; Aftermath of the Battle of Trenton; and a Continental infantryman with equipment in 1781. Compared to other Osprey volumes, these color plates tend toward mediocre, but are acceptable.  Most of the other illustrations are very commonplace examples.<br /><br /> Despite triumphs at Saratoga and Yorktown, the Continental soldier's main contribution was his ability to remain in the field despite crippling logistical shortfalls.  Quite frankly, it was beyond the ability of the cash-strapped colonies to maintain 20-25,000 regular soldiers in 1775-1783 and the only way that it was managed was that the army put up with gross shortages because enough troops believed in the worthiness of sacrifice for the cause (Confederate troops would be in the same situation in 1864-1865).  Thus, the ultimate success of the American Continental would seem to be a good example of Napoleon's dictum that in war, the moral is to the material as three is to one.re usually hungry and paid with almost worthless paper currency.  Mutiny was fairly common and Milsop notes that one particularly large mutiny in 1781 cost the Continentals more men than any single battle of the war.  The remainder of Milsop's narrative includes sections on campaigning, belief and belonging, the experience of battle and notes on museums. <br /> <br /> The color plates in the volume are: a private from the Commander-in-Chief's Guard, 1778; Von Steuben drilling at Valley Forge; the night attack at Stony Point; the New Windsor cantonment; four starving Continentals; the charge of the Deleware-Maryland Battalion at Cowpens; Aftermath of the Battle of Trenton; and a Continental infantryman with equipment in 1781. Compared to other Osprey volumes, these color plates tend toward mediocre, but are acceptable.  Most of the other illustrations are very commonplace examples. <br /> <br /> Despite triumphs at Saratoga and Yorktown, the Continental soldier's main contribution was his ability to remain in the field despite crippling logistical shortfalls.  Quite frankly, it was beyond the ability of the cash-strapped colonies to maintain 20-25,000 regular soldiers in 1775-1783 and the only way that it was managed was that the army put up with gross shortages because enough troops believed in the worthiness of sacrifice for the cause (Confederate troops would be in the same situation in 1864-1865).  Thus, the ultimate success of the American Continental would seem to be a good example of Napoleon's dictum that in war, the moral is to the material as three is to one. <br />	2004-09-24
514088:US	52533596	R116P6N9PRGB40	1841767085	814184441	The Russo-Japanese War 1904–05 (Men-at-Arms)	Books	4	21	21	N	Y	A Nice Little Gem	Lately, it seems as if Osprey's Men-at-Arms series has degenerated from its previously decent summaries into a series devoted to explaining obscure military buttons and uniform features.  Alexei Ivanov, a former Russian army officer, appears to have actually produced a Men-at-Arms title that is fairly fresh and original, featuring the oft-neglected Russo-Japanese War.  Ivanov has not only done excellent research on the Russian side (and readers will enjoy his collection of Russian military photographs), but he has provided good insight into the Japanese side as well.  Although Ivanov does discuss uniforms as well as organization, he does not get wrapped up in minor details; instead, he offers a soldier's perspective on why this piece of equipment or uniform item was important.  In sum, this little volume on the Russo-Japanese War is a gem.<br /><br /> After a decent introduction and a fairly detailed chronology, Ivanov provides a very interesting section on military innovations in the war (machineguns, communications, trench warfare, observation balloons and guerrilla warfare).  For example, few other histories mention that the Russians introduced two wireless radio companies just before the end of the war.  Similarly, Ivanov spends the time to discuss how the Russians and Japanese used machineguns differently.  For once, a Men-at-Arms title has been written for military specialists and not just model-builders or re-enactors. Ivanov then provides a succinct but detailed summary of the Russian army in 1904, providing details on order of battle, organization, equipment and morale. Although Ivanov spends about seven pages discussing Russian uniforms, he does not beat the reader to death with minutiae.  The sections on the Japanese army are noticeably shorter, but quite decent.<br /><br /> The heart of the volume of course is the color plates, which are well worth the cost of this title.  The color plates are Russian staff; Russian summer and winter uniforms; Russian Cossacks; Russian Frontier and naval troops; Japanese early war uniforms; Japanese Khaki uniforms; Japanese winter uniforms. The photographs are also quite good, including many from the author's collection.ssacks; Russian Frontier and naval troops; Japanese early war uniforms; Japanese Khaki uniforms; Japanese winter uniforms. The photographs are also quite good, including many from the author's collection.	2004-09-22
517054:US	52533596	R3GG6TIC8YOG4Q	1841767727	821888464	Monmouth Courthouse 1778: The last great battle in the north (Campaign)	Books	3	18	21	N	Y	Was Charles Lee Unfairly Relieved of Command? Who Cares!	Brendan Morrissey's Monmouth Courthouse 1781 is his fourth addition to the Osprey Campaign series on the American War of Independence. Morrissey has a decent grasp of his subject and he has honed his narrative style in each succeeding volume.  However, Morrissey's coverage of the Battle of Monmouth Courthouse suffers from two inter-related problems: an over-focus on the question of American Major General Charles Lee's role in the battle and an ambiguous battle narrative.  Essentially, much of this volume revolves around the question - was Charles Lee unfairly relieved of command - rather than a true analysis of the battle itself.<br /><br /> Morrisey's introduction and campaign chronology starts out decently, but starts to thin out in the section on opposing commanders, which only covers well-known figures such as Clinton, Cornwallis, Lee and Washington.  What about some of the brigade commanders? The section on opposing armies is also decent, highlighting the introduction of brigades and light infantry in the increasingly professional American army.  Oddly, there is no section on opposing plans.  Morrissey provides five 2-D Maps: North America in January 1778; New England and the Mid-Atlantic colonies; action at Barren Hill 20 May 1778; Two roads to Monmouth; Monmouth Battlefield.  Unfortunately, the map of the Barren Hill skirmish adds nothing to the campaign narrative, and this volume is sorely lacking a decent 2-D map zoomed in to the actual battlefield area at Monmouth. After recently visiting the Monmouth battlefield, I found the maps in this volume were not very useful for someone standing on the actual terrain. The three 3-D \\"Bird's Eye View\\" maps are: Lee's advance; Lee's Retreat; and Clinton's withdrawal. The three color battle scenes by Adam Hook are: the capture of Lieutenant Colonel Ramsay; the 42nd Foot in the Sutfin Orchard; the guns on Comb's Hill.<br /><br /> Morrissey' campaign narrative meanders through a variety of disparate events in early 1778 until he finally moves into the British withdrawal from Philadelphia that initiated the sequence of events that culminated at Monmouth Courthouse.  It is apparent that Washington's pursuit of the withdrawing British army was hardly rapid, even a bit sluggish (Washington had lost most of one field army in 1776 and was probably reticent to risk his main army unless sure of the outcome).  However, the Americans were able to catch up with the British army near Freehold, New Jersey on 27 June 1778.  After much debate, Washington gave the mission of attacking the British rearguard to Charles Lee. According to most accounts, Lee botched the attack in a half-hearted effort and was relieved by Washington, who was able to turn the battle into a draw.  In Morrissey's version of the battle, Lee was unfairly relieved.<br /><br /> I think Morrissey has stuck his neck out pretty far in attempting to defend Charles Lee and to base his assessment of the battle in terms of whether or not the America advance guard commander was unfairly relieved.  First, what did Charles Lee ever really do for the Patriot cause?  At Charleston, he provided advice that the locals didn't need. In the 1776 New York campaign, he managed to disobey orders and then get himself captured, probably collaborating with his British hosts. Morrissey suggests that Lee was court-martialed after the battle due to Washington's \\"popularity,\\" which ridiculously equates the man who almost single-handedly welding together America's war effort in the Revolution to some modern-day celebrity. Morrissey claims that Lee was neither disrespectful nor treacherous, but merely undone by adverse circumstances and unruly subordinates.  This is hogwash. Washington was not a capricious sort of commander who acted on whimsy; historians should give him the benefit of the doubt that the reasons were justified.  What would Morrissey have us believe - that Washington acted out of rage or petty jealousy?<br /><br /> It is also difficult toevaluate how well (or badly) Lee performed his mission of attacking the British rearguard given Morrissey's hard-to-follow tactical narrative.  Morrissey writes: \\"[Lee] ordered Grayson to proceed with caution, he sent Jackson to join him at the front of the column and asked Wayne to take charge of those two detachments and a third unit (taken from Scott's command) under fellow Pennsylvanian Colonel Richard Butler.\\" Huh? I can't tell who is doing what here. The American command structure of the advance guard was jumbled, with a variety of units provided detachments of their best troops, but Morrissey lumps them into a potpourri of poorly-identified names, with little attempt to distinguish the size or relationship of these detachments. Morrissey claims that the terrain and the sudden re-appearance of the British rearguard frustrated Lee's efforts to mount a coherent attack.  I think the more likely reasons for Lee's discomfiture were simply military incompetence and poor leadership skills.  When the Revolution started, Lee was one of several foreign officers who impressed Congress with his resume and secured a commission, but close examination of his record indicates that his command experience at high level was negligible. It is interesting that both Charles Lee and Horatio Gates, who had been majors in the British army, performed poorly on the battlefield and were poor leaders of men.  When Lee botched a straightforward attack and let his picked troops rout, it was too much for Washington. Most of all, Morrissey's over-focus on Lee misses much of the significance of the first battle involving von-Steuben-trained American continentals and British regulars.  One of Washington's goals was to test the efficiency of these new troops and it must have been galling to see them running away with hardly a fight. As every officer knows, a commander is responsible for everything his troops do or fail to do, and Lee was thus responsible for not only failing his mission, but allowing a disgraceful rout to occur after only minor skirmishes.It is also difficult to evaluate how well (or badly) Lee performed his mission of attacking the British rearguard given Morrissey's hard-to-follow tactical narrative.  Morrissey writes: \\"[Lee] ordered Grayson to proceed with caution, he sent Jackson to join him at the front of the column and asked Wayne to take charge of those two detachments and a third unit (taken from Scott's command) under fellow Pennsylvanian Colonel Richard Butler.\\" Huh? I can't tell who is doing what here. The American command structure of the advance guard was jumbled, with a variety of units provided detachments of their best troops, but Morrissey lumps them into a potpourri of poorly-identified names, with little attempt to distinguish the size or relationship of these detachments. Morrissey claims that the terrain and the sudden re-appearance of the British rearguard frustrated Lee's efforts to mount a coherent attack.  I think the more likely reasons for Lee's discomfiture were simply military incompetence and poor leadership skills.  When the Revolution started, Lee was one of several foreign officers who impressed Congress with his resume and secured a commission, but close examination of his record indicates that his command experience at high level was negligible. It is interesting that both Charles Lee and Horatio Gates, who had been majors in the British army, performed poorly on the battlefield and were poor leaders of men.  When Lee botched a straightforward attack and let his picked troops rout, it was too much for Washington. Most of all, Morrissey's over-focus on Lee misses much of the significance of the first battle involving von-Steuben-trained American continentals and British regulars.  One of Washington's goals was to test the efficiency of these new troops and it must have been galling to see them running away with hardly a fight. As every officer knows, a commander is responsible for everything his troops do or fail to do, and Lee was thus responsible for not only failing his mission, but allowing a disgraceful rout to occur after only minor skirmishes.    <br />	2004-09-19
518456:US	52533596	R2LDB414EZUB0E	1841765015	469376102	German Pocket Battleships 1939–45 (New Vanguard)	Books	3	15	20	N	N	Omits a Bit too much detail at times...	Gordon Williamson has written several volumes for Osprey's New Vanguard series that covers each of the main classes of warships in Germany's Second World War fleet.  In German Pocket Battleships 1939-1945, Williamson outlines the technical details and careers of the three German warships of the \\"Deutschland\\" class: Deutschland (later Lutzow), Scheer and Graf Spee. William's summary is succinct, sometimes too succinct, such as omitting any attempt at discussing the relative contribution of these ships to the German war effort. Williamson also fails to notice that the Graf Spee is currently being raised and that parts of the ship were already salvaged in early 2004 - his readers might like to know that parts of the Graf Spee are already on display in Uruguay.<br /><br />  Williamson begins with a short background on the Germany Navy's reduced state after the First World War and the genesis of the \\"pocket battleship\\" concept.  The author then provides a summary of the main features and wartime career of each of the three ships in this class.  The summaries are sometimes overly brief, such as failing to detail how many merchant ships the Graf Spee sank or captured on her 1939 cruise, and the Battle of the River Platte or Barents Sea might have rated a small map of the action. The color plates are excellent - the best selling point of the volume - and they consist of side and plan views of the Deutschland; the Graf Spee at gunnery drill in the Atlantic; side and plan views of the Scheer; a cutaway diagram of the Graf Spee; side and plan views of the Graf Spee; the Scheer engaging Russian troops; and a variety of camouflage schemes.  The photographs throughout the volume are also decent, although most of the shots were taken in port.  The technical details provided by Williamson cover the basic essentials, but don't even cover all the information provided in a much shorter Jane's Fighting Ships edition from the era - such as armor layout or much detail on the torpedo armament.<br /><br />  Germany built the \\"pocket battleships\\" for sea denial purposes, to act as commerce raiders against British convoys and thereby spread out the Royal Navy chasing down will-o-the-wisp raiders.  Unfortunately for readers of this volume, Williamson makes no effort to discuss the doctrinal rationale behind these rather unique warships or to evaluate their performance in the Second World War.  This summary does reveal that the pocket battleships only conducted five anti-shipping sorties (Deutschland and Graf Spee in 1939, Scheer in 1940-1, Lutzow in the 1942 Battle of the Barents Sea, and Scheer against PQ-17 in 1942) during the entire war and only one of the sorties resulted in a successful patrol where the raider returned intact to port. All told, the pocket battleships sank 28 British merchantmen of about 170,000 tons plus a single armed merchant cruiser.  Why did the three highly rated pocket battleships fail to score more successes? First, Graf Spee was lost in the first four months of the war and the other two vessels spent most of the early years of the war in dockyard; Deutschland for example, was out of commission 75% of the first three years of the war and Scheer didn't make its first war cruise until October 1940.  A second reason why the ships weren't more successful is that they were designed to operate in areas where the British lacked air power, but by the time the two survivors were fully operational - in late 1942 - the window of opportunity had shut.  Significantly, Lutzow and Scheer sank no enemy ships after 1941 and spent the rest of the war in secondary roles for which they were poorly suited. Thus, the pocket battleship concept was obsolete early in the war.<br /><br />  Williamson leaves out some vital information, like the cost of the ships.  Each ship in the class cost $32-36 million, which means that they were about four times the cost of a contemporary British heavy cruiser but less than half the cost of a battleship.  However, the investment of $100 million and 3,300 crewmen to eliminate a couple dozen cheap British merchantmen would make it seem that Hitler did not get his money's worth with these ships.  The power plant of the Deutschland class also makes one wonder about the technical quality of the pocket battleships too, since their typical speed of 25 knots was not very fast compared to other heavy cruisers.  Given that an early model U-Boat that cost about $1-1.5 million and needed only a 50-man crew could go out into the Atlantic and sink as many as 10-20 merchantmen in a successful career, it seems that Hitler would have been wiser to start the war with 50 more U-Boats than a handful of \\"hangar queens.\\"  Apparently, Hitler realized the same thing by November 1942, when he ordered drastic reduction in the surface fleet in favor of U-Boat production.  It is fortunate for the Allied cause that Hitler did not realize the poor cost effectiveness of the pocket battleship sooner.nvestment of $100 million and 3,300 crewmen to eliminate a couple dozen cheap British merchantmen would make it seem that Hitler did not get his money's worth with these ships.  The power plant of the Deutschland class also makes one wonder about the technical quality of the pocket battleships too, since their typical speed of 25 knots was not very fast compared to other heavy cruisers.  Given that an early model U-Boat that cost about $1-1.5 million and needed only a 50-man crew could go out into the Atlantic and sink as many as 10-20 merchantmen in a successful career, it seems that Hitler would have been wiser to start the war with 50 more U-Boats than a handful of \\"hangar queens.\\"  Apparently, Hitler realized the same thing by November 1942, when he ordered drastic reduction in the surface fleet in favor of U-Boat production.  It is fortunate for the Allied cause that Hitler did not realize the poor cost effectiveness of the pocket battleship sooner.	2004-09-17
520787:US	52533596	R3AK1QK04ZSAPU	1841767719	53044440	Blenheim 1704: The Duke of Marlborough’s masterpiece (Campaign)	Books	3	19	22	N	N	Blenheim was not Cannae	The back jacket of Osprey Campaign #141, Blenheim 1704, describes it as \\"one of history's most audacious strategic maneuvers and perhaps the greatest victory ever won by a British commander...\\"  Blenheim and the British commander, the Duke of Marlborough, have assumed a virtual mythological status in British historiography that is sustained by seemingly every modern-day British author who takes up a pen to describe this campaign.  It seems that everything that Marlborough did is described as prescient and extraordinary. John Tincey, who wrote earlier Osprey volumes on 16-17th Century English military history, provides a compact and well-written narrative of the Blenheim campaign, but it is imbued with the usual chauvinistic myopia and reluctance to examine inconvenient details that makes it difficult for modern readers to evaluate what really happened in southern Bavaria on 12 August 1704.<br /><br /> Tincey begins with an overly succinct introduction and campaign chronology, but makes up for it in good sections in opposing plans and opposing armies.  It is clear that the French were over-extended in 1704, as Tincey notes that they were trying to conduct nine different campaigns simultaneously (although the main effort, more or less, was in Bavaria).  Marlborough's main goal, in moving his army from its secure base in Holland to link up with his Austrian allies in Bavaria, was to prevent the isolated Austrians from being knocked out of the war.  However, Tincey's description of this as a \\"strategic maneuver\\" is inaccurate - it was an operational maneuver; if Marlborough's army had been transported to attack the French in Canada, that would have been a strategic maneuver.  As far as the audacity part, there is a \\"hyping\\" here of a not-very extraordinary administrative march - Marlborough's march was through mostly friendly country and was unmolested by the enemy - that ignores truly audacious maneuvers such as Hannibal's march across the Alps, Sherman's march to the sea and Napoleon's Ulm maneuver.  In the section on armies, Tincey describes how the Anglo-Dutch adoption of \\"platoon firing\\" gave Marlborough's army a big tactical advantage over the French, who still fired by successive lines.  On the other hand, Tincey's British chauvinism is evident in the slight mention accorded to the role of other coalition members in the campaign, such as the Danes, Prussians, Hessians and Imperials.  Did they use platoon firing, too? A close examination of the order of battle reveals that only about 17% of the Allied troops at Blenheim were British and that the largest contingent was Dutch.  However, like Waterloo historiography, British historians minimize the contributions of their erstwhile allies and promote the idea that it was the genius of their commander and the bravery of their handful of troops that carried the day.<br /><br /> Blenheim 1704 has five 2-D maps (French campaigns of 1704; Marlborough's March to the Danube; the capture of the Schellenberg; Tallard's march to Blenheim; Marlborough's approach march), three 3-D Bird's Eye View maps (the battle opens; Marlborough's attack; the Franco-Bavarian attack) and three color battle scenes (Marlborough's meeting with Prince Eugene; the Foot Guards cross the Nebel Stream; French infantry in Blenheim surrender).<br /><br />  Tincey's tactical description of the battle is coherent, but lacks analysis.  He suggests that Marlborough's style was to employ a combination of deceptive fixing attacks to spread the enemy out, then to aggressively mass his forces to achieve a Blitzkrieg-style schwerpunkt at a chosen point. This looks accurate because this is what transpired in the battle, but it is debatable if this was the result of planning, luck or just dumb enemy mistakes.  The Battle of Blenheim was essentially a 1-1 odds fight with the French on the defensive behind some \\"slow-go\\" terrain; the Allies had an edge in cavalry and the French had an edge in artillery (Tincey makes no effort to discuss why the French artillery didn't turn the battle in their favor).  The French made three critical mistakes that cost them the battle: (1) they failed to provide an effective covering force between them and the enemy, (2) they failed to cover \\"dead space\\" in front of their positions and (3) they committed their reserve at the wrong place and time.  To be sure, Marlborough exploited every one of his enemy's mistakes and this is to his credit, but it is not clear that he had a plan for dealing with an enemy who didn't make so many mistakes.  If the French had not made any one of those mistakes, Blenheim would have been an entirely different battle - probably a sanguinary battle like Malplaquet in 1709.  Marlborough gambled that his enemy would make mistakes and his audacity - in that sense - paid off, but it is important to remember that anything less than a complete victory would have meant failure of the campaign's objectives.<br /><br /> As for the scale of the disaster, Tincey's suggestions that the armies of Louis XIV were smashed at Blenheim ignores several inconvenient facts: (1) at least one-third of the enemy losses were Bavarians, not French, (2) most of the thousands of French prisoners taken would be paroled within a short period of time, Tincey admits that the best regiments were captured virtually intact in Blenheim and (3) the actual permanent French losses - perhaps 10,000 dead - represented only about 2-3% of total French military manpower available.  Granted, the loss of Bavaria as an ally and the defeat of French forces east of the Rhine were serious setbacks, but they were hardly irreparable to the French cause, as Tincey suggests.  Indeed, the French were able to recover the initiative in the Low Countries after Marlborough left in 1711 and end the war in a decent negotiating position. Indeed, the fact that Louis' armies could sustain more heavy defeats at Ramillies, Oudenarde, Malplaquet and Turin and still end the war holding many of their gains indicates that there was a great deal of strength left in the Sun King's empire.y makes no effort to discuss why the French artillery didn't turn the battle in their favor).  The French made three critical mistakes that cost them the battle: (1) they failed to provide an effective covering force between them and the enemy, (2) they failed to cover \\"dead space\\" in front of their positions and (3) they committed their reserve at the wrong place and time.  To be sure, Marlborough exploited every one of his enemy's mistakes and this is to his credit, but it is not clear that he had a plan for dealing with an enemy who didn't make so many mistakes.  If the French had not made any one of those mistakes, Blenheim would have been an entirely different battle - probably a sanguinary battle like Malplaquet in 1709.  Marlborough gambled that his enemy would make mistakes and his audacity - in that sense - paid off, but it is important to remember that anything less than a complete victory would have meant failure of the campaign's objectives.    <br /> <br /> As for the scale of the disaster, Tincey's suggestions that the armies of Louis XIV were smashed at Blenheim ignores several inconvenient facts: (1) at least one-third of the enemy losses were Bavarians, not French, (2) most of the thousands of French prisoners taken would be paroled within a short period of time, Tincey admits that the best regiments were captured virtually intact in Blenheim and (3) the actual permanent French losses - perhaps 10,000 dead - represented only about 2-3% of total French military manpower available.  Granted, the loss of Bavaria as an ally and the defeat of French forces east of the Rhine were serious setbacks, but they were hardly irreparable to the French cause, as Tincey suggests.  Indeed, the French were able to recover the initiative in the Low Countries after Marlborough left in 1711 and end the war in a decent negotiating position. Indeed, the fact that Louis' armies could sustain more heavy defeats at Ramillies, Oudenarde, Malplaquet and Turin and still end thewar holding many of their gains indicates that there was a great deal of strength left in the Sun King's empire.     <br />	2004-09-15
525152:US	52533596	RPKHSMJA38GVG	1841765023	663518496	German Heavy Cruisers 1939–45 (New Vanguard)	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Good Color Plates, Slim Narrative	Osprey New Vanguard #81 is another installment in Gordon Williamson's summaries of each major ship class in Germany's Second World War navy.  In this volume, Williamson addresses the \\"Hipper\\" class heavy cruisers: the Hipper, Blucher and Prinz Eugen, plus brief mention of their uncompleted sisters - Lutzow and Seydlitz.  The main reason for buying these volumes is the excellent color plates, since the technical details and operational narratives omit important details that are resident in the longer, but more expensive volumes, by the Naval Institute Press.<br /><br /> Like the other volumes in this set, Williamson provides brief background on the German Navy in the interwar period, focusing on the construction of this class.  He then provides brief technical detail and operational narratives for each of the three main vessels in this class, plus brief sections on their two unfinished units in the class.  The color plates are: side and plan views each of Hipper, Blucher and Prinz Eugen; a cross-section of Prinz Eugen (the main selling point for the volume); late-war camouflage schemes; plus two action scenes - one each of the Hipper and Prinz Eugen engaging in coastal bombardment against the Russians in 1944-1945.<br /><br /> As usual, Williamson avoids any discussion of the doctrinal rationale for these ships or any evaluation of their relative contribution to the Germany Navy's war effort. The cruisers were apparently built as general-purpose warships, rather than commerce-raiders, given that there were very few attempts to use them individually like the pocket battleships.  Most of the operational use of these ships involved pairing them up with larger ships of the \\"Bismarck,\\" \\"Scharnhorst\\" or \\"Deutschland\\" classes for major sorties; essentially, they were used to round-out task forces.  Blucher was lost only seven months after commissioning, leaving only Hipper and Prinz Eugen available.  Later in the war, the surviving Hipper and Prinz Eugen spent most of their time providing naval gunfire support against the advancing Russians - surely a poor use for such an expensive asset.  Readers should also note how these ships spent much of the war out of commission or involved in non-operational purposes, such as cadet training in the Baltic. Once again, Williamson omits any mention of cost and in this case, it was a serious omission.  The \\"Hipper\\" class cruisers each cost about $34 million, which was more than twice the cost of the pocket battleships and about four times the cost of most British heavy cruisers.  These were expensive ships that spent most of the war idle and deprived Germany of steel and crewmen that would have been better invested in U-Boats.  In terms of contribution, Hipper's attack on convoy SL 64 off the Azores in February 1941 - which sank seven merchantmen of 32,000 tons - was the only major success that these cruisers enjoyed during the war.<br /><br /> In terms of technical detail, Williams gives virtually no mention of the perennial engine problems that these ships suffered from their high-pressure steam plants or the fact that their operational range was rather limited.  When these ships were commissioned in 1939-1940, the \\"Hipper\\" class cruisers were the biggest heavy cruisers in the world, with a displacement of 14-16,000 tons when most Allied heavy cruisers were in the 8-10,000 ton range.  The \\"Hipper\\" class also had thicker and better placed armor protection than most British cruisers.  Given these temporary advantages, these ships might have made their best contribution in 1940-1941, but a single successful convoy attack was all they managed.  Like most of Germany's surface fleet, the resources poured into these prestige units provided very little in return.of their time providing naval gunfire support against the advancing Russians - surely a poor use for such an expensive asset.  Readers should also note how these ships spent much of the war out of commission or involved in non-operational purposes, such as cadet training in the Baltic. Once again, Williamson omits any mention of cost and in this case, it was a serious omission.  The \\"Hipper\\" class cruisers each cost about $34 million, which was more than twice the cost of the pocket battleships and about four times the cost of most British heavy cruisers.  These were expensive ships that spent most of the war idle and deprived Germany of steel and crewmen that would have been better invested in U-Boats.  In terms of contribution, Hipper's attack on convoy SL 64 off the Azores in February 1941 - which sank seven merchantmen of 32,000 tons - was the only major success that these cruisers enjoyed during the war.     <br /> <br /> In terms of technical detail, Williams gives virtually no mention of the perennial engine problems that these ships suffered from their high-pressure steam plants or the fact that their operational range was rather limited.  When these ships were commissioned in 1939-1940, the \\"Hipper\\" class cruisers were the biggest heavy cruisers in the world, with a displacement of 14-16,000 tons when most Allied heavy cruisers were in the 8-10,000 ton range.  The \\"Hipper\\" class also had thicker and better placed armor protection than most British cruisers.  Given these temporary advantages, these ships might have made their best contribution in 1940-1941, but a single successful convoy attack was all they managed.  Like most of Germany's surface fleet, the resources poured into these prestige units provided very little in return. <br />	2004-09-11
531870:US	52533596	R28G12Z3NHUCZB	1841766925	604589303	Zeppelins: German Airships 1900–40 (New Vanguard)	Books	3	14	17	N	Y	Inadequate Data, Spotty Narrative	Osprey's New Vanguard #101, Zeppelins: German Airships 1900-1940 by Charles Stephenson, covers the development and operational role of German airships in the First World War.  Although with the benefit of hindsight it seems pretty clear today that the zeppelins were a technological blind alley for the Germans, these craft still represent an interesting aspect of early aviation history.  Unfortunately, readers will quickly realize that this volume fails to deliver the zeppelin story in a number of important areas, including basic data.  There are a number of longer, more expensive volumes on zeppelins in the First World War and readers interested in serious study should not view this volume as a cheaper substitute.<br /><br /> Stephenson begins with seven pages on the background to the development of airships in Germany in 1900-1914; although brief, this section is adequate. The rest of the volume focuses on airship operations in the First World War, with a brief section on German airships in the inter-war period.  The author has included numerous excellent photographs from the Zeppelin Museum.  The color plates include a dozen side profiles of different model zeppelins, a cross section diagram of LZ104, an airship with an observer's car, the destruction of SL 11, and the experimental launch of an Albatross fighter from LZ 80.  The author also provides five pages of data on the airships and a bibliography which fails to even mention some of the excellent German websites available.<br /><br /> The author concludes that the zeppelins were \\"fundamentally ill suited for war.\\"  This seems pretty obvious, given a hydrogen-filled airship that could explode from a burst of incendiary bullets, but I wish the author had actually attempted a little analysis.  Indeed, the author does not even make the effort to inform the reader how many zeppelins were built during the war and how many were lost - although the reader can do it for himself.  Apparently, somewhere between 80-115 zeppelins were built during 1914-1918 (I've seen many different figures), of which about 35 were lost to enemy action and 39 to accidents (I say about, since the comments in the author's table about the fate of each airship are often vague); this is a loss rate of about 70%.  Curiously, the loss rate for all German standard aircraft from all causes in the war was about 57%; this means that the zeppelin losses were high, but not unusual for experimental weaponry.<br /><br /> In fact, the data tables seem to lack a lot of basic information about the airships, such as crew size, cost, bomb load and defensive armament.  The author provides \\"payload in tons\\" but this is deceptive; for example, he lists LZ 112 as having a payload of 43.5 tons, but the actual bomb load was only 4 tons - the rest was fuel and other consumables (possibly including crew weight).  It would have been great if the author could at least have mentioned something about the costs of the zeppelin program, since it is obvious that Imperial Germany put large resources into this effort.  The Hindenberg, built in 1935, cost about $2 million - money that might have been better spent on four-engine bombers. Other statistics and information, like the number of crewmen lost in the raids over England (he lists 528 civilians killed by zeppelins) would have put the strategic raids in better perspective.  The whole issue of zeppelin construction, training and modification during the war are virtually ignored.<br /><br /> The author's operational narrative is also a bit spotty, including missing the fact that it was a zeppelin that dropped the first 1,000-kilogram bomb over England.  How were zeppelins organized ...in squadrons?  Nor does the author even allude to the role of wireless radio in coordinating multi-ship raids and their use as scouts for the German High Seas Fleet in the North Sea.  Amazingly, the author does not even mention what types of bombs were dropped from zeppelins - fragmentation, incendiaryor high explosive?  Furthermore, the inclusion of material on post-war zeppelins only served to detract from the space available to cover the core of this subject.or high explosive?  Furthermore, the inclusion of material on post-war zeppelins only served to detract from the space available to cover the core of this subject.	2004-09-05
531967:US	52533596	R2H8QQ7EEVSZ4K	1841768111	228383039	Guam 1941 & 1944: Loss and Reconquest (Campaign)	Books	3	19	20	N	Y	Good Data, No First-Person Accounts	The Japanese capture of Guam in December 1941 and the US reconquest of the island are covered by Gordon L Rottman in Osprey's Campaign #139.  Although operations on this island in the Second World War normally do not rate much attention, Rottman notes that this was an expensive invasion by 1944 standards.<br /><br />  The standard section on opposing forces, plans and commanders are good, if dry.  While Rottman notes that operationally the idea of landing two US Marine forces separated by 7 miles was unprecedented, he fails to note that the three major US units landing (3rd Marine Division, 1st Provisional Brigade and US Army 77th Infantry Division) had only a 2.6-1 numerical advantage over the defenders - a bit slim for an opposed landing.  The author provides five 2-D maps (strategic situation; Marianas islands; Japanese defenses on Guam; the fight for the beachheads; daily progress, 21 July - 10 August 1944), three 3-D \\"Bird's Eye View\\" maps (3rd Marine Division securing the beachhead; the capture of Orote Peninsula and the Japanese counterattack on 25-26 July 1944) and three color battle scenes Banzai attack on the 3rd Marine Division hospital; trail-breaking in northern Guam; feeding the \\"Long Toms\\").  The maps were better in this volume than his previous volume on Saipan, particularly in filling in the strategic picture.  On the other hand, the author notes that for coastal defense the Japanese had nineteen 8-inch guns and eight 6-inch guns, but doesn't identify where they were located in proximity to the invasion beaches.  The author's order of battle is excellent - always as Rottman specialty - as is the bibliography.<br /><br />  Rottman describes the hopelessness of the small US Navy-US Marine Corps garrison in December 1941, which was quickly overwhelmed by the Japanese.  The quick loss of the island at the outset of the war - and the fact that US military planners assumed that the island was indefensible - raises two questions not addressed by Rottman.  First, why did the US garrison not have a better self-destruct plan to quickly dispose of aviation fuel stocks and vehicles to prevent falling into Japanese hands? Second, given the facts that the Guamian population was friendly and the island was fairly large and littered with caves, why did the US military not consider guerrilla warfare on Guam?  Rottman notes the successful evasion for more than two years by US Navy signalman George Tweed, but what if the US Marine company on Guam had prepared arms caches and hide locations in the remote areas of the island before the Japanese invasion.  Apparently, Guam is a pretty good place to hide, since Rottman notes that about \\"7,500 Japanese were still at-large on the island when it was declared secure\\" and the last holdout didn't surrender until 1973.  Rather than meekly surrendering and heading off to Manchurian prisons, a small force of Marines and Guamians probably could have been more useful as a stay-behind force to assist the eventual reconquest of the island.<br /><br />  The strength of this volume -as all of Rottman's volumes - lies in the detail on daily military operations, but the weaknesses are lack of humanity and failure to analyze available data.  Rottman fails to provide any first-person accounts or to even mention any of the four US Marine Medal of Honor recipients in the campaign Skaggs, Mason, Wilson and Witek).  Even George Tweed's miraculous survival and escape rates only two sentences. Rottman suggest that US Marine battalions were gutted by heavy losses on Guam, at one point claiming that \\"most Marine battalions lost over 300 killed each, some almost 500.\\"  Rottman's casualty table shows 1,457 US Marine fatalities on Guam, which divided by the 15 Marine infantry battalions in the operation, yields an average of only 97 deaths per battalion (and this ignores artillery, engineers and support troop losses).  If we consider total casualties, then it is possible that the rifle battalions suffered 300-400 casualties each, but we need to be careful with these numbers.  Stastically, someone like John Kerry counted as three \\"wounded\\" in Vietnam, even though he was never hospitalized; on Guam, I'm sure some Marines were wounded more than once. The other issue where Rottman shows failure to analyze is to ask why the US Army, which had 35% of the combat troops on Guam, suffered only 10% of the deaths?  Obviously, the Marine casualties appear pretty excessive in comparison to the US Army methods.<br /><br />  I also find Rottman's description of the Japanese counterattack on 25-26 July 1944 troubling.  Coming less than three weeks after the destructive Japanese Banzai attack on Saipan, one might think that the 3rd Marine Division would have been expecting something similar on Guam.  Instead, the 3rd Marine Division had all nine of its infantry battalions on line with no appreciable reserve and no defenses in depth; all of which greatly facilitated the Japanese counterattack.  As on Saipan, the Japanese penetrated the thinly spread Marine perimeter and drove deep into the rear areas, inflicting serious casualties.  While it is true that the Japanese attacks in both cases cost them the bulk of their assault force, it seems that a certain amount of luck saved the Marines from total disaster.  I suspect that the Marine commanders were under pressure to expand the beachhead as rapidly as possible and this meant taking risks, such as no reserve.  However, this was fairly foolish and callous toward the lives of their own men.  Had the Marines had a smaller perimeter with a reserve, the Japanese would have been just as destroyed but with lighter US losses.  My suspicion is that Rottman accepts the 1944-US Marine style of operations as the \\"right way\\" and insinuates that the more careful US Army tactics were \\"wimpy.\\"ttalions suffered 300-400 casualties each, but we need to be careful with these numbers.  Stastically, someone like John Kerry counted as three \\"wounded\\" in Vietnam, even though he was never hospitalized; on Guam, I'm sure some Marines were wounded more than once. The other issue where Rottman shows failure to analyze is to ask why the US Army, which had 35% of the combat troops on Guam, suffered only 10% of the deaths?  Obviously, the Marine casualties appear pretty excessive in comparison to the US Army methods.    <br /> <br />    I also find Rottman's description of the Japanese counterattack on 25-26 July 1944 troubling.  Coming less than three weeks after the destructive Japanese Banzai attack on Saipan, one might think that the 3rd Marine Division would have been expecting something similar on Guam.  Instead, the 3rd Marine Division had all nine of its infantry battalions on line with no appreciable reserve and no defenses in depth; all of which greatly facilitated the Japanese counterattack.  As on Saipan, the Japanese penetrated the thinly spread Marine perimeter and drove deep into the rear areas, inflicting serious casualties.  While it is true that the Japanese attacks in both cases cost them the bulk of their assault force, it seems that a certain amount of luck saved the Marines from total disaster.  I suspect that the Marine commanders were under pressure to expand the beachhead as rapidly as possible and this meant taking risks, such as no reserve.  However, this was fairly foolish and callous toward the lives of their own men.  Had the Marines had a smaller perimeter with a reserve, the Japanese would have been just as destroyed but with lighter US losses.  My suspicion is that Rottman accepts the 1944-US Marine style of operations as the \\"right way\\" and insinuates that the more careful US Army tactics were \\"wimpy.\\" <br />	2004-09-05
547941:US	52533596	R1Z3HXKTPLRSFH	1844150305	685710178	Operation Goodwood: The Great Tank Charge, July 1944 (Battleground Europe)	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	An Excellent Account of the "Apparent Failure"	For most American military history readers, Operation \\"Goodwood\\" was merely the largest of a string of British failures to seize Caen in Normandy in July 1944.  Since most US histories of the Normandy campaign focus on the breakout with Operation Cobra, the \\"apparent failure\\" of Operation \\"Goodwood\\" as General Eisenhower referred to it, gets little scrutiny.  Thanks to Pen & Sword's excellent Battleground Europe series on the Normandy campaign, American readers can now begin to correct some of those misconceptions about this important operation.  Ian Daglish provides a first-rate military evaluation of the operation, complete with British and German perspectives.<br /><br /> Daglish begins the volume by describing \\"Goodwood\\" as the \\"biggest tank battle the British army fought in World War Two.\\" However, this is incorrect since there were nine British tank battalions used in \\"Goodwood\\" with about 1,000 tanks, but the British army had used eighteen tank battalions with 1,000 tanks at El Alamein in 1942.  The author notes the manpower crisis in the British army affected their conduct in Normandy; they could afford to lose tanks but not infantry.  With the fighting deadlocked around Caen, the British had to develop a plan that would minimize their own infantry losses while offering a reasonable chance to expand the bridgehead.  Operation \\"Goodwood\\" was originally conceived by Field Marshal Montgomery as an attrition attack that would gain some ground and wear down German armor reserves.  However, General Dempsey - the commander of British 2nd Army - modified the plan as a potential breakthrough attack.  As Daglish notes, \\"Eisenhower became convinced that Goodwood was to deliver a major breakthrough, effectively a left hook through the German lines to mirror the right cross of Operation Cobra.\\"<br /><br /> One of the strengths of this volume is the space that Daglish devotes to describing the opposing forces in detail (although unfortunately, there is no order of battle).  General Richard O'Connor's British 8th Corps was to spearhead the attack with three armored divisions (7th, 11th and Guards).  The British plan was to precede the attack with a saturation bombing, followed by artillery prep fire, then to attack in echelon down a one kilometer-wide \\"penetration corridor.\\"  Facing this mass of armor was the depleted German 21st Panzer Division, which was deployed in depth but lacking in infantry.  However, the British had to get their three armored divisions across the Orne River and their assembly areas were so cramped that that most of the artillery was too far back.  The operation started well, with the heavy bombings delivering one of the most effective carpet bombings of the war: 6,500 tons of bombs were dropped and much of it landed on the German armor deployed in the forward areas.  The German front-line defenders were effectively suppressed by the combination of bombing and artillery barrage, allowing the British first wave - two reinforced armor task forces - to penetrate several kilometers into the German defensive zone.<br /><br /> The majority of this volume focuses on the lead British armor division - the 11th Armored Division - and the German response to its advance.  Although the British bombing and artillery had suppressed most of the defenders in the path of the attack, the British chose to bypass a number of villages held by the Germans, assuming that follow-on forces would reduce these obstructions later.  British intelligence preparation of the battlefield (IPB) was poor and this came back to haunt them as they encountered unforeseen obstacles and more extensive enemy defenses.  The Germans recovered from their initial shock and a battery of four 88mm guns destroyed 15 tanks in one of the lead battalions.  British actions on contact were faulty - attempting to drive past German antitank guns rather than methodically eliminating them - and caused heavy casualties.  Essentially, the British lead elements were almost halted due to the railway embankments at the southern end of the corridor, and the bunched-up vehicles behind them were catching direct and indirect fire from both east and west.  Very quickly, the British 11th Armored Division lost the initiative and was merely trying to hang on for survival, while the follow-on divisions could barely deploy.  Daglish exaggerates the significance of the narrowness of the British attack corridor; one kilometer wide was sufficient to move all the British armor they needed through the German main line of resistance.  The problem was not width of corridor but reconnaissance, observation and security.<br /><br /> Much of this volume also focuses on the reaction of the 21st Panzer Division - energized by Colonel Hans von Luck - to \\"Goodwood.\\"  Despite heavy losses, Luck was able to cobble together a defense from remnants until German reinforcements could arrive.  Readers should carefully note the author's description of two counterattacks by German Tiger tanks; both attacks failed miserably and demonstrate that the reputation of the Tiger has been exaggerated.  Daglish fails to note that the Germans also under-estimated the obstacle posed by the railway embankments, since the handful of underpasses were not covered by obstacles or fire.<br /><br /> My only disappointment with this volume is the lack of sufficient detail on casualties.  While Daglish mentions that the 11th Armored Division lost 126 tanks on the first day of \\"Goodwood,\\" it is not clear what total British armor and infantry losses were like.  Detailed data on casualties is critical in assessing whether or not Goodwood was a failure, or worthwhile.  Clearly, the British lost the equivalent of one armor division to write-off most of the German 21st Panzer Division, but the bulk of the SS armor was not badly depleted in the Goodwood fighting. Although Caen fell shortly after \\"Goodwood\\", it was due more to Canadian infantry attacks than British tank charges.  Thus, \\"Goodwood\\" apparently failed to either achieve a breakthrough or seriously degrade the German armor in Normandy.  Yet \\"Goodwood\\" did give the British some \\"elbow room\\" on the east side of Caen that would give them valuable jump-off points later.nts were almost halted due to the railway embankments at the southern end of the corridor, and the bunched-up vehicles behind them were catching direct and indirect fire from both east and west.  Very quickly, the British 11th Armored Division lost the initiative and was merely trying to hang on for survival, while the follow-on divisions could barely deploy.  Daglish exaggerates the significance of the narrowness of the British attack corridor; one kilometer wide was sufficient to move all the British armor they needed through the German main line of resistance.  The problem was not width of corridor but reconnaissance, observation and security.   <br /> <br /> Much of this volume also focuses on the reaction of the 21st Panzer Division - energized by Colonel Hans von Luck - to \\"Goodwood.\\"  Despite heavy losses, Luck was able to cobble together a defense from remnants until German reinforcements could arrive.  Readers should carefully note the author's description of two counterattacks by German Tiger tanks; both attacks failed miserably and demonstrate that the reputation of the Tiger has been exaggerated.  Daglish fails to note that the Germans also under-estimated the obstacle posed by the railway embankments, since the handful of underpasses were not covered by obstacles or fire.   <br /> <br /> My only disappointment with this volume is the lack of sufficient detail on casualties.  While Daglish mentions that the 11th Armored Division lost 126 tanks on the first day of \\"Goodwood,\\" it is not clear what total British armor and infantry losses were like.  Detailed data on casualties is critical in assessing whether or not Goodwood was a failure, or worthwhile.  Clearly, the British lost the equivalent of one armor division to write-off most of the German 21st Panzer Division, but the bulk of the SS armor was not badly depleted in the Goodwood fighting. Although Caen fell shortly after \\"Goodwood\\", it was due more to Canadian infantry attacks than British tank charges.  Thus, \\"Goodwood\\" apparently failed to either achieve a breakthrough or seriously degrade the German armor in Normandy.  Yet \\"Goodwood\\" did give the British some \\"elbow room\\" on the east side of Caen that would give them valuable jump-off points later. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-22
548189:US	52533596	R2ZFZ04Q8DSIIL	1841765163	191801315	Poitiers 1356: The capture of a king (Campaign)	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Another French Military Disaster...	With Poitiers 1356, Osprey's Campaign series has now covered all the \\"classic\\" battles of the Hundred Years War (the other titles are Crecy, Agincourt and Orleans).  Osprey's medieval expert Dr. David Nicolle provides an excellent summary of the Black Prince's raid into France in 1356 and the resultant Battle of Poitiers.  As usual, Nicolle's work is erudite, if a bit short on humanity and military insight.<br /><br /> Dr. Nicolle begins Poitiers 1356 with a very good introduction that outlines how the English had established themselves in southwest France in Gascony, and the impact of the Black Death on military operations.  The author explains how the English launched deep penetration raids from their coastal enclaves; the raids were designed to disrupt the French economy and to undermine the legitimacy of the French monarchy.  It was the raid in 1356 by the heir to the English throne, the Black Prince, that led to the Battle of Poitiers.  In the section on opposing commanders, the author provides capsule biographies on the Black Prince and five other English leaders, and the French King John II and five other French leaders.  The section on opposing armies is a bit overly brief, providing only the barest details on the composition of either army (while Nicolle notes that estimates vary widely on the size of the French army, it would have been nice if he had provided some information on what these varying opinions said).  Whatever the size of the French army, it is clear that the armies of Poitiers were smaller than previous armies in the Hundred Years War, primarily due to the Black Death.  While Nicolle notes that the Black Prince's army was a mix of English and local Gascon mercenaries, he gives no clue as to the relative balance (how much was Gascon?).  The author also outlines in the section on opposing plans that while the Black Prince sought to avoid battle, the French king's primary intent was to cut off and destroy the enemy invaders in a large battle.<br /><br /> Dr. Nicolle spends about twenty pages describing the Black Prince's raid from Bordeaux deep into central France, the gathering of the French army and its pursuit.  It is clear that the French demonstrated superior operational art in outmaneuvering the English and cutting off their retreat near Poitiers.  Although poor reconnaissance undermined the French tactical operations, the English were brought to battle according to the French operational plan.  The author then spends about thirty pages describing the tactical conduct of the Battle of Poitiers on 19 September 1356.  As Nicolle describes it, the Anglo-Gascons selected a good defensive position (with their backs to the woods blocking retreat?) behind a solid hedgerow and with flanks anchored on impassable marshes.  The French had learned a few lessons from earlier defeats at the hands of English longbows so they elected to launch a massive frontal attack with three divisions in echelon of dismounted men-at-arms.  The main attack was preceded by two unplanned cavalry charges on the flanks which were repulsed.  In short, the first echelon was defeated and withdrew, the second echelon left the field without orders and the third echelon (with the French king) launched a final surge into the English line.  Unlike Crecy, Poitiers had a considerable amount of close combat and the French came close to achieving at least a draw if not a victory. However, the Anglo-Gascon counterattack shattered the third echelon and captured the French king.  Nicolle is a bit vague on losses: he notes that the French suffered about 3,000 dead and over 2,000 captured but does not mention Anglo-Gascon losses (other sources suggest about 2,000 killed and wounded or about 25% casualties, which indicates a fairly close battle).  By any measure, Poitiers was a major military disaster for France.<br /><br />  Poitiers 1356 includes five 2-D maps (France from 1346-1355; Operations in France, January-August 1356; the French Assemble; the French Pursuit; France from Poitiers to the Treaty of Br&eacute;tigny, 1360), three 3-D \\"Birds Eye View\\" maps (the French Mounted Charges; Attack of the French Main Body; the Anglo-Gascon counterattack) and three color battle scenes (the looting of Vierzon; English longbow men at Poitiers; the capture of King John II).  Unfortunately, much of the tactical action is hidden in the crease of the full-page 3-D maps - a common problem with Osprey maps - and a zoomed-in 2-D map would have been better to display Anglo-Gascon dispositions behind the hedge.  Like most Medieval battles, Poitiers was fought in a very small area and these 3-D maps are better designed for \\"larger\\" battles of the 18th or 19th Century (keeping in mind that no Medieval tactical weapons had ranges beyond a few hundred meters).  The battle scenes by Graham Turner are excellent, but it would have been better to have an \\"action\\" scene of the French attack at Poitiers rather than the relatively bland scene of English looting. Dr. Nicolle also provides an excellent bibliography and good notes on the battlefield today.August 1356; the French Assemble; the French Pursuit; France from Poitiers to the Treaty of Brtigny, 1360), three 3-D \\"Birds Eye View\\" maps (the French Mounted Charges; Attack of the French Main Body; the Anglo-Gascon counterattack) and three color battle scenes (the looting of Vierzon; English longbow men at Poitiers; the capture of King John II).  Unfortunately, much of the tactical action is hidden in the crease of the full-page 3-D maps - a common problem with Osprey maps - and a zoomed-in 2-D map would have been better to display Anglo-Gascon dispositions behind the hedge.  Like most Medieval battles, Poitiers was fought in a very small area and these 3-D maps are better designed for \\"larger\\" battles of the 18th or 19th Century (keeping in mind that no Medieval tactical weapons had ranges beyond a few hundred meters).  The battle scenes by Graham Turner are excellent, but it would have been better to have an \\"action\\" scene of the French attack at Poitiers rather than the relatively bland scene of English looting. Dr. Nicolle also provides an excellent bibliography and good notes on the battlefield today.	2004-08-21
548212:US	52533596	RWJ8WX2W3TAV5	1844150364	190727492	The Bridge at Remagen: 9th Armoured Infantry Division (Battleground Europe)	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Was it Luck...or Treason?	Throughout most of the Second World War, the German army enjoyed an enviable reputation for thorough planning and tactical excellence; it was a rare occasion when the Germans performed miserably on the battlefield.  The loss of the Ludendorff Bridge over the Rhine River on 7 March 1945 was one of those rare occasions where the Germans performed miserably.  For years, the only real source material available on the dramatic seizure of the Remagen Bridge came from a single source - US historian Ken Hechler - who wrote both a monograph for the official history and the mass-market \\"Bridge at Remagen.\\"  Andrew Rawson bases much of his volume on Remagen on Hechler's work but succeeds in bringing a fresh perspective in this volume by covering the battle for the bridgehead as well as the seizure of the bridge.<br /><br />  In the Second World War, the Remagen Bridge was an important escape route across the Rhine for shattered German units retreating from the Allied offensives in early 1945.  By the time the war approached sleepy Remagen, the defenses of the town consisted of only 36 third-rate troops under two war-weary reserve officers: Captain Bratge and Captain Friesenhahn.  Hitler had decreed that no bridges over the Rhine would be captured intact by the Allies and preparations were made to destroy the bridge to prevent capture, but the preparations were unusually slipshod.  On the other side of the hill, Rawson describes the relentless advance of the US 9th Armored Division to the Rhine during Operation \\"Lumberjack\\" on 1-7 March 1945.  Rawson clearly highlights the chaos and confusion in the German chain of command following the collapse of the front on the western bank of the Rhine, with commanders and units changing rapidly.  The standard view - which Rawson abides with - is that the tiny bridge security company was lost in the shuffle and the German 67th Corps commander did not realize how threadbare the defenses were at this critical point.  However, this version of Remagen - which essentially views the failure to blow the bridge from the perspective of three frustrated company grade officers at Remagen and an oblivious higher headquarters at Bonn - ignores the role of all the German troops crossing over the bridge.<br /><br />  Rawson mentions that over 20 German tanks crossed the Remagen Bridge the day before the Americans arrived - yet why was not a single tank anywhere to be seen when the Americans arrived hours later?  Both a battalion of the German 3rd Airborne Division and an anti-aircraft unit set up in Remagen but then withdrew without orders.  Clearly, German units and officers were putting personal safety ahead of their duty to protect a key crossing over the Rhine River. Moreover, the German army didn't only cross the Rhine at Remagen, but failed to establish any kind of defenses on the east side of the river.  Unfortunately, Rawson fails to mention the disagreements between local German commanders: while many Germans believed that the American main effort would be made at Bonn, the 15th Army Commander believed that the Americans might try for Remagen and he told the 67th Corps Commander (General Hitzfeld) that the bridge was his responsibility.  In a pathetic minimal attempt at compliance, Hitzfeld sent Major Scheller and eight soldiers to the bridge. Therefore the overall command failure on the German side clearly falls on General Hitzfeld, as well as the commanders of the 3rd Airborne, 272nd and 277th Volksgrenadier divisions who had troops in the area of the bridge.<br /><br />  Aside from the German command failures that led to such inadequate resources for the defense of the bridge, the greatest \\"mystery\\" about Remagen remains about why most of the explosives on the bridge did not detonate. Rawson suggests sabotage by Polish workers or shrapnel damage to the electrical wires as possible explanations, but these just don't ring true.  It is very hard to believe that a German military engineer could not make 600pounds of explosives detonate even under fire; time and again, other German engineers had blown up Rhine bridges in the faces of US troops.  There is another possibility that Rawson and Hechler never suggest, but which bears consideration: treason.  By March 1945, most Germans were war-weary and an Allied victory was in sight.  The only result of fighting on further was to cause more death and destruction in Germany.  Is it not possible that two junior German reserve officers, operating with minimal supervision from above and surrounded by chaos, decided not to destroy the bridge? They might have surmised that a quick Allied crossing of the Rhine would spare Remagen further fighting and end the war more quickly.  Of course, when Major Scheller showed up from corps - three hours before the American tanks - Bratge and Friesenhahn had to put on a show of resistance so perhaps they detonated only a small charge, enough to cause some superficial damage.  There are two indicators that Bratge and Friesenhahn had no intention to destroy the bridge.  First, they had only 36 troops available but they sent almost all of them to an observation position (and apparently without communication gear, since the NCO had to run back to the bridge to warn of approaching tanks) almost one kilometer from the bridge; thus, the bulk of the bridge security detail was left out of the battle.  Second, Bratge and Friesenhahn seem to have made virtually no effort to install obstacles on the bridge.  While they did detonate a cratering charge on the causeway leading to the bridge that held up US tanks, they failed to put up any serious anti-infantry obstacles.  Even with the limited time and resources available, Bratge and Friesenhahn could have strung some barbed wire across the bridge and blocked foot traffic with a few wrecked vehicles (preferably on fire).  Finally, Bratge and Friesenhahn took no part in actually opposing the American crossing - they were skulking in the rail tunnel - and they quickly surrendered to the first US troops across.lieve that a German military engineer could not make 600 pounds of explosives detonate even under fire; time and again, other German engineers had blown up Rhine bridges in the faces of US troops.  There is another possibility that Rawson and Hechler never suggest, but which bears consideration: treason.  By March 1945, most Germans were war-weary and an Allied victory was in sight.  The only result of fighting on further was to cause more death and destruction in Germany.  Is it not possible that two junior German reserve officers, operating with minimal supervision from above and surrounded by chaos, decided not to destroy the bridge? They might have surmised that a quick Allied crossing of the Rhine would spare Remagen further fighting and end the war more quickly.  Of course, when Major Scheller showed up from corps - three hours before the American tanks - Bratge and Friesenhahn had to put on a show of resistance so perhaps they detonated only a small charge, enough to cause some superficial damage.  There are two indicators that Bratge and Friesenhahn had no intention to destroy the bridge.  First, they had only 36 troops available but they sent almost all of them to an observation position (and apparently without communication gear, since the NCO had to run back to the bridge to warn of approaching tanks) almost one kilometer from the bridge; thus, the bulk of the bridge security detail was left out of the battle.  Second, Bratge and Friesenhahn seem to have made virtually no effort to install obstacles on the bridge.  While they did detonate a cratering charge on the causeway leading to the bridge that held up US tanks, they failed to put up any serious anti-infantry obstacles.  Even with the limited time and resources available, Bratge and Friesenhahn could have strung some barbed wire across the bridge and blocked foot traffic with a few wrecked vehicles (preferably on fire).  Finally, Bratge and Friesenhahn took no part in actually opposing the American crossing - they were skulking in the rail tunnel - and they quickly surrendered to the first US troops across.   <br /> <br />	2004-08-21
562856:US	52533596	R1L6Y6EI2UPSCK	1841763721	469376210	The Arab-Israeli Conflict:  The Palestine War 1948	Books	4	19	27	N	N	Excellent Summary of The First Arab-Israeli War	It is probably impossible at this point in history to write a completely objective history of the creation of the state of Israel in 1948 and the first Arab-Israeli War that it sparked. Most people tend to view either the Israelis or the Palestinians as the victims of aggression, and the other party as responsible for everything that followed from the UN vote on partition in 1947.  Efraim Karsh has written an excellent summary of the 1948 War from the Israeli point of view.  Pro-Arab readers will not find this account objective, but then there is certainly a paucity of Arab sources which can approach the subject of \\"the Zionist Entity\\" (i.e. Israel) with anything like the relative even-handedness that Karsh is able to muster.  As far as objectivity goes, Karsh is probably more unfair to the British and the Americans than he is to the Palestinians.  Military readers will find this volume useful, but they will notice that the detail on military operations is somewhat superficial.  Nevertheless, The Arab-Israeli Conflict: The Palestine War 1948 is an excellent addition to Osprey's Essential Histories series.<br /><br /> Karsh begins the volume with a well-written that outlines the background to the conflict, stretching from the Britain's 1917 Balfour Declaration that supported the idea of a Jewish state in Palestine, to the 1937 Peel Commission which called for the creation of separate Jewish and Arab states in Palestine to the 1947 UN Partition Plan.  Karsh paints the Palestinian Arabs as adamantly opposed to any kind of compromise from the 1920s on, but he fails to note that the Zionists were offered the option of creating a Jewish homeland in less controversial parts of the British Empire and refused it out of hand. The section on the opposing sides is particularly good, but I wish that Osprey would change the format to require a simple table that summarizes the population and troop strength of each side.  Karsh is particularly interesting in noting that Arab military operations in Palestine were dominated by Iraqi and Syrian generals and that the Israelis were not as badly out-numbered as often thought.  The volume includes ten maps: the Middle East 1948; the UN partition Plan; the Battle for Haifa; the Arab invasion of Israel; the situation after the first truce; Operation \\"Danny,\\" Operation \\"Horev,\\" the first Israeli attack on Latrun; Operation \\"Uvda,\\" the 1949 armistice line.  No maps depicting fighting around Jerusalem - an odd omission since much of the fighting took place on the approaches to the city.  The bibliography is a bit short for such a controversial subject - only eleven references - and it omits Dupuy's Elusive Victory, which is one of the better military accounts available.<br /><br /> Karsh's narrative of the war itself begins with the Arabs' categorical rejection of any partition and the outbreak of war immediately upon the announcement of the UN partition plan in November 1947.  Karsh writes that the Arab states around Palestine - Lebanon, Egypt, Jordan and Syria - had their own diverse objectives and each wanted to incorporate Palestinian territory into their own countries.  It seems that Karsh is suggesting that Palestine was going to get carved up anyway, so the Israelis might as well get their fair share - a bit of a self-justifying rationalization.  Karsh also tends to suggest that the Palestinian people did not fight for their own land - that they let other Arabs fight for them and then ran away when things got bad - but this ignores the thousands of Palestinian guerrillas that did harass Israeli lines of communication.  Lacking a state and an army, the Palestinians were poorly positioned to conduct large-scale military operations, but Karsh's aspersions on their willingness to fight also lean toward rationalizing the seizure of Palestinian lands.  As Karsh sees it, the Israelis had their backs against the wall early in the war as they struggled to sustain supply lines to isolated towns, but when they shifted to an offensive strategy in April 1948 they gained the initiative that led to victory.  Karsh sees the Palestinian leadership's decision to evacuate major cities like Haifa as a foolish move that snowballed into more than 500,000 refugees by the end of the war.<br /><br /> While Karsh tends to justify Israel's harsh treatment of the Palestinians by claiming that they didn't fight much and they were going to lose their land anyway, his treatment of the British and the Americans is even more blatantly biased.  Karsh avoids mentioning the role of foreigners in shaping Israel's defense force, such as British Colonel Orde Wingate and American Colonel David \\"Mickey\\" Marcus.  Wingate formed and trained the first Jewish armed units to resist Arab attacks in 1936 these troops would become the Palmach, as well as becoming an ardent Zionist. Marcus arrived in Israeli in May 1948 and was given command of Israeli forces in Jerusalem until he was killed two weeks later; the \\"Burma Road\\" mentioned by Karsh was Marcus' idea.  While Karsh omits mentioning either Wingate or Marcus, he does frequently mention British indifference to Arab attacks on Israelis, which readers may find mean-spirited.  Perhaps if Karsh had mentioned the fact that Jewish terrorists blew up the British headquarters in the King David Hotel in July 1946, killing 91 British, this indifference might have made more sense.  Karsh also criticizes the American fear that Israel might become a Marxist state, but then forgets to mention that the first country to recognize Israel was the USSR and the first large arms shipments to Israel came from Czechoslovakia.  In 1948, the Arab regimes looked fairly pro-Western, but Israel was suspect in US and British eyes.<br /><br />  As Karsh sees it, Israelis did not so much steal Palestinian land as the Palestinians abandoned their land due to duplicity and betrayal by their own leaders.  There are certainly grains of truth in this view, but if it were strictly true, then the Palestinians today would have no reason to continue their struggle against Israel.ted towns, but when they shifted to an offensive strategy in April 1948 they gained the initiative that led to victory.  Karsh sees the Palestinian leadership's decision to evacuate major cities like Haifa as a foolish move that snowballed into more than 500,000 refugees by the end of the war.   <br /> <br /> <br /> While Karsh tends to justify Israel's harsh treatment of the Palestinians by claiming that they didn't fight much and they were going to lose their land anyway, his treatment of the British and the Americans is even more blatantly biased.   Karsh avoids mentioning the role of foreigners in shaping Israel's defense force, such as British Colonel Orde Wingate and American Colonel David \\"Mickey\\" Marcus.  Wingate formed and trained the first Jewish armed units to resist Arab attacks in 1936 these troops would become the Palmach, as well as becoming an ardent Zionist. Marcus arrived in Israeli in May 1948 and was given command of Israeli forces in Jerusalem until he was killed two weeks later; the \\"Burma Road\\" mentioned by Karsh was Marcus' idea.  While Karsh omits mentioning either Wingate or Marcus, he does frequently mention British indifference to Arab attacks on Israelis, which readers may find mean-spirited.  Perhaps if Karsh had mentioned the fact that Jewish terrorists blew up the British headquarters in the King David Hotel in July 1946, killing 91 British, this indifference might have made more sense.  Karsh also criticizes the American fear that Israel might become a Marxist state, but then forgets to mention that the first country to recognize Israel was the USSR and the first large arms shipments to Israel came from Czechoslovakia.  In 1948, the Arab regimes looked fairly pro-Western, but Israel was suspect in US and British eyes.   <br /> <br /> <br />    As Karsh sees it, Israelis did not so much steal Palestinian land as the Palestinians abandoned their land due to duplicity and betrayal by their own leaders.  There are certainly grains of truth in this view, but if it were strictly true, then the Palestinians today would have no reason to continue their struggle against Israel.   <br />	2004-08-07
566184:US	52533596	R3FW6FKXQL67MC	1841765546	304004974	US Army Tank Crewman 1941–45: European Theater of Operations (ETO) 1944–45 (Warrior)	Books	3	24	26	N	N	Over-Focus on a &quot;Celebrity&quot; Tanker	Normally, Stephen G. Zaloga, well-known US armor expert, produces volumes for Osprey that are incisive, well-written and on-target. Unfortunately, Zaloga's latest volume - US Army Tank Crewman 1941-45 - does not live up to expectations, primarily due to a single defect: instead of attempting to portray tankers of various ranks and units, Zaloga focuses on a single individual: LTC Creighton Abrams of the 37th Tank Battalion. As soon as I read that this was Zaloga's intent in the introduction, I realized that the volume was in trouble. Essentially, Zaloga focuses on a &quot;celebrity&quot; tanker who went on to four-star rank in the 1970s and had a highly publicized career. While there is no doubt that Abrams made a major contribution in the European Theater of Operations in 1944-45, it is a mistake to try and focus so heavily upon a single battalion commander and portray him as &quot;typical&quot; of the breed. Furthermore, as a former tanker myself, I found that the volume did not adequately portray the feel of platoon and company-level armor operations.<br /><br /> Zaloga begins with a short introduction on the US armor force, followed by brief sections on recruiting and enlistment, training for combat and equipment and weapons. The rest of the volume is essentially a campaign narrative of the 37th Tank Battalion in Normandy, Lorraine, the Battle of the Bulge and the Hammelburg Raid. The color plates are: US Army tanker, summer 1944 with helmets and small arms; the turret interior of a Sherman tank; the Battle of Arracourt; organization of B Company/37th Tank Battalion, July 1944; Thunderbolt at Bastogne; interior of a M5A1 turret; US tanker, winter 1944 with main gun rounds; M4 medium tank crew layout. Zaloga does provide some incisive comments, such as noting that the US introduction of FM radios in their tanks gave them an advantage over the German tanks with AM radios (that couldn't transmit on the move). On the other hand, I wonder about some of Zaloga's details, like the gyrostabilizer on the M4 Sherman tank. A few tankers in 1944-45 may have attempted to shoot on the move but the vast majority probably fired only from stationary positions and it was not until the M1 tank appeared in the 1980s that the US armor force had a tank that could really shoot effectively on the move.<br /><br /> Readers should note a few facts about Abrams career as a tanker: he started as a general's aide in 1938, transferred to the new armor branch in 1940, served on regimental staff for much of 1941-1942, served eight months as a tank battalion commander in CONUS in 1942-1943, returned to regimental staff and then was given command of the 37th Tank Battalion in late 1943. Just before the end of the war, Abrams took over a combat command [brigade]. Apparently, Abrams never served as a company level officer in a tank unit (platoon leader, company XO or company commander), or even battalion S-3 or XO in a tank battalion. Just where did Abrams learn to maneuver armor units or about maintenance? Starting as a battalion commander, he must have had a very steep learning curve and it might explain some of his &quot;wackier&quot; ideas like putting the battalion S-2 and S-3 in their own tanks (Zaloga might have noted that German armor battalions usually let staff officers do their jobs, instead of trying to command their own tanks). Zaloga makes the claim early in the volume that Abrams may have been one of the highest-scoring US tankers in the war. I find this very suspect, since battalion commanders were supposed to be employing their entire 700+ man task force, not fighting as an individual tank commander. Furthermore, if Abrams was such an &quot;up-front&quot; leader, why was he never wounded or his tank hit, for that was certainly the norm for US tank platoon leaders and company commanders who spent 6-9 months in combat. It is also highly unlikely that Abrams spent much time doing maintenance on his tank, unlike lower ranking tankers. Frankly, Zaloga's account of Abrams wartime exploits - which focuses heavily on the Arracourt and Bastogne fighting - skews this toward a gung-ho account that ignores the daily facets of life in a tank battalion. What was Abrams' relationship with his XO (never mentioned), his S-3 operations) and S-4 (logistics) - all key individuals in a tank battalion?<br /><br /> Most of being a tanker is about keeping your beast running, not glorious tank charges as Zaloga seems to suggest. Zaloga does provide a few photos depicting track maintenance, pulling a power pack, vehicle recovery and loading ammunition, but very little of the text is concerned with logistics. I wonder just how many of Abrams' tanks were &quot;deadlined&quot; for parts (and what specific parts were critical shortages - there is always some) or running in &quot;degraded mode?&quot; There is also precious little information here about armor tactics (did they use some type of overwatch?), armor training (did they do individual, section and platoon gunnery?) or armor-infantry-artillery combined arms tactics. Key individuals like the tank company first sergeants, the mechanics and the lowly tank crew drivers and loaders just don't appear much in these pages. What Zaloga delivers is a portrayal of US tank combat through the eyes of a field grade officer, not the typical platoon and company-level tankers who bore the brunt of the fighting.t of Abrams wartime exploits - which focuses heavily on the Arracourt and Bastogne fighting - skews this toward a gung-ho account that ignores the daily facets of life in a tank battalion. What was Abrams' relationship with his XO (never mentioned), his S-3 operations) and S-4 (logistics) - all key individuals in a tank battalion?      Most of being a tanker is about keeping your beast running, not glorious tank charges as Zaloga seems to suggest. Zaloga does provide a few photos depicting track maintenance, pulling a power pack, vehicle recovery and loading ammunition, but very little of the text is concerned with logistics. I wonder just how many of Abrams' tanks were &quot;deadlined&quot; for parts (and what specific parts were critical shortages - there is always some) or running in &quot;degraded mode?&quot; There is also precious little information here about armor tactics (did they use some type of overwatch?), armor training (did they do individual, section and platoon gunnery?) or armor-infantry-artillery combined arms tactics. Key individuals like the tank company first sergeants, the mechanics and the lowly tank crew drivers and loaders just don't appear much in these pages. What Zaloga delivers is a portrayal of US tank combat through the eyes of a field grade officer, not the typical platoon and company-level tankers who bore the brunt of the fighting.	2004-08-04
577163:US	52533596	R3JWYEUTMIPGJ8	1841766984	967639497	Meiktila 1945: The battle to liberate Burma (Campaign)	Books	4	11	14	N	Y	A Classic Set-Piece Attack on an Isolated Foe	Edward M. Young, an aviation history, provides an excellent summary of the little-known Meiktila campaign in Burma in 1945 in Osprey's campaign series #136. Indeed, this volume is well suited for study by professional officers and military academics in regard to a classic set piece operational-level offensive. Young's narrative is crisp and workmanlike, and well supported by maps and illustrations. However, readers should be aware that the author is attempting to summarize six months of operations over a large theater into only 96 pages, and this reduces some of the detail that might shed greater light on facets of the campaign. Furthermore, the author has not provided much detail on the crucial role of logistics, which undermines his campaign narrative in certain areas. Nevertheless, Meiktila 1945 is certainly worth having for anyone interested in analyzing operational level combat in the Second World War.<br /><br /> Young begins with a rather lengthy introduction that sets the strategic background to the campaign. While Young views the US and British differences over Burma as essentially related to the Chinese, this leaves out the very important consideration that the Americans felt that Burma was a waste of resources and that the British were pressing to reconquer Burma for parochial reasons. While the British army in Europe was running out of infantry, General Slim was committing 24 British battalions to reconquer Burma; these troops could have done more good in Europe than the Burmese jungles. Furthermore, if the land routes to China were no longer threatened after the failure of the Japanese offensive against Imphal-Kohima in March-June 1944, why reconquer Burma? A key fact that Young omits in this strategic debate is the logistical fragility of Slim's entire plan of operation - the entire plan would be anemic at best. Why take this strategic risk when Burma was nothing more than a strategic buffer for the Japanese empire? Capture of Rangoon would not render any immediate advantage to the Allies. Young's sections on opposing commanders and opposing plans are quite good, although the idea that the Meiktila campaign was an exploitation of the Imphal-Kohima victories overlooks the fact that the British gave the Japanese over six months to retreat into Burma and lick their wounds - hardly a pursuit.<br /><br /> The section on opposing armies is decent, although a bit vague in some important areas. While noting that the Japanese were weak in armor and airpower, and that their infantry and artillery were at only 50% strength, Young doesn't seem to appreciate that the Japanese army in Burma was effectively isolated by February 1945 due to the US submarine campaign and the Battle of Leyte Gulf. Indeed, the Japanese army in Burma received no replacements after November 1944; with Macarthur and Nimitz approaching the Japanese home islands, Burma was effectively written off. While Young claims that the &quot;decisive weapon in the Meiktila battles proved to be the tank,&quot; it would be fair to say that the Allied &quot;center of gravity&quot; was air transport, of which 85% was American. Without his C-47s to provide air supply, Slim would never have crossed the Irrawaddy River. Young mentions that Allied edge in air power but fails to specify that they actually had a better than 13-1 superiority over the Japanese in Burma. Thus, Allied air supremacy enabled air resupply that allowed for operational maneuver, while the Japanese were effectively unable to replace their losses or maneuver much. The result of all these converging factors was an &quot;overmatch&quot; campaign where the Japanese had few viable options, which is important to keep in mind when reading Young's narrative (if Japanese intelligence had deduced Allied intent to seize Meiktila, could they have stopped it?).<br /><br /> Meiktila 1945 includes six 2-D Maps (the Burma Front on 1 November 1944; Operation &quot;Extended Capital&quot;; IV and XXXIII Corps crossingsof the Irrawaddy River; the armored thrust to Meiktila; the defense of Meiktila; the advance on Rangoon) and<br /> three 3-D Birds-Eye View maps (7th Division crosses the Irrawaddy; the Battle for Meiktila; the defense of Meiktila). There are also three color battle scenes: crossing the Irrawaddy; fighting in Meiktila; and clearing Wetlet.<br /><br /> There is no doubt that General Slim planned and executed an excellent set-piece campaign in reconquering Burma in early 1945; but the British were also beneficiaries of good luck. Young notes that the British crossing of the Irrawaddy River fortuitously struck the boundary between the two Japanese armies and that Japanese C³I was abysmal. The fact that the Japanese failed to detect British road-building efforts through the jungle indicate incredible incompetence. Slim was able to get his 7th Division across the Irrawaddy with some difficulty and it is interesting that he took 13 days from crossing the river to reaching the main objective at Meiktila. While Slim's concept of an &quot;armored dash&quot; to Meiktila was sound, the fact that it took nearly two weeks to cover 80-odd miles indicates that it was no &quot;blitzkrieg&quot;. Yet, if the British had dropped all or part of the Indian 50th Airborne brigade on the approaches to Meiktila, this might have prevented the Japanese rear area troops from establishing roadblocks.<br /><br /> Once Meiktila was captured in March 1945, Slim was in the strongest position in warfare: a strategic offensive with a tactical defense. Since the British were sitting on their supply lines, the Japanese were forced to counterattack at Meiktila but the effort was piece-meal and they ruined two divisions in the process. Young fails to mention that Slim's 14th Army was experiencing significant logistical shortfalls at this point and the British were rapidly approaching a culminating point if the Japanese did not fold in central Burma. Perhaps the only viable Japanese strategy in Burma would have been to stay on the defense until the rainy season stopped the British in their tracks, but this would have violated the offensive spirit of Japanese doctrine.iver; the armored thrust to Meiktila; the defense of Meiktila; the advance on Rangoon) and   three 3-D Birds-Eye View maps (7th Division crosses the Irrawaddy; the Battle for Meiktila; the defense of Meiktila). There are also three color battle scenes: crossing the Irrawaddy; fighting in Meiktila; and clearing Wetlet.       There is no doubt that General Slim planned and executed an excellent set-piece campaign in reconquering Burma in early 1945; but the British were also beneficiaries of good luck. Young notes that the British crossing of the Irrawaddy River fortuitously struck the boundary between the two Japanese armies and that Japanese CI was abysmal. The fact that the Japanese failed to detect British road-building efforts through the jungle indicate incredible incompetence. Slim was able to get his 7th Division across the Irrawaddy with some difficulty and it is interesting that he took 13 days from crossing the river to reaching the main objective at Meiktila. While Slim's concept of an &quot;armored dash&quot; to Meiktila was sound, the fact that it took nearly two weeks to cover 80-odd miles indicates that it was no &quot;blitzkrieg&quot;. Yet, if the British had dropped all or part of the Indian 50th Airborne brigade on the approaches to Meiktila, this might have prevented the Japanese rear area troops from establishing roadblocks.       Once Meiktila was captured in March 1945, Slim was in the strongest position in warfare: a strategic offensive with a tactical defense. Since the British were sitting on their supply lines, the Japanese were forced to counterattack at Meiktila but the effort was piece-meal and they ruined two divisions in the process. Young fails to mention that Slim's 14th Army was experiencing significant logistical shortfalls at this point and the British were rapidly approaching a culminating point if the Japanese did not fold in central Burma. Perhaps the only viable Japanese strategy in Burma would have been to stay on the defenseuntil the rainy season stopped the British in their tracks, but this would have violated the offensive spirit of Japanese doctrine.	2004-07-25
586586:US	52533596	R3PSU18EZSZTPR	1841766895	124996365	British Mark I Tank 1916 (New Vanguard)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	In the Hands of a Expert	In Osprey New Vanguard #100 David Fletcher, a historian at the Tank Museum in Bovington (UK), provides an excellent summary of the development and introduction of the first British tanks in the First World War.  Fletcher succeeds in assembling a lot of disparate information into a tight package, that outlines the development, training and entry into combat of the British tank force.  This Osprey summary is an excellent starting point for academics or professional military readers who wish to study the introduction of a radical new weapon system.  Overall, in terms of narrative, freshness of information, and graphic appeal, this volume is excellent.<br /> Fletcher begins the volume with background information on how Winston Churchill's idea for &quot;landships&quot; was translated by two engineering geniuses into the prototype &quot;Lincoln Machine&quot; and &quot;Little Willie.&quot;  Most readers will be surprised to learn that the original track set was built in Chicago (which doesn't cast the concept of American &quot;neutrality&quot; in a particularly sincere light), although this track was deemed unsuitable for the later prototypes.  Fletcher details how the initial requirement for tanks in February 1915, after passing through the &quot;Little Willie&quot; design, resulted in the first tests of the Mark I tank or &quot;Mother&quot; in January 1916; less than a year from concept to working prototype! Considering that aircraft and submarines both existed prior to the First World War and their wartime developments were evolutionary in nature, the development of the British Mark I tank may be one of the most rapid weapons breakthroughs in military history.  Fletcher also notes that it was the development of a functional track design that &quot;was the single most important factor in the evolution of the British tank&quot; - not the engine, transmission, armor or weapons.<br /> Fletcher also spends several pages discussing how the Mark I tanks were built - a subject that is rarely discussed in other sources.  By the summer of 1916, Fletcher notes that British industry was capable of building about 25 tanks per week, but many were siphoned off for training duties, so few were available for the battles of 1916-1917.  One item that Fletcher does not cover is the issue of how much the first tanks cost; again, from the point of view of R&amp;D and weapon development, it would be interesting to see how much the British investment in tanks cost (versus say, development in new heavy artillery or aircraft).  Fletcher's section on crew duties is also very interesting, and as a former tanker myself, it is hard not to sympathize with the early tankers who had to operate inside a vehicle filled with &quot;gushing clouds of carbon monoxide&quot; and with temperatures rising to 120º F.  Fletcher also includes brief sections on training for war and the initial introduction into combat.  Although recently there has been a school of revisionist historians who have challenged the value of the early tanks, Fletcher notes that despite heavy losses and awkward moments the British Mark I tanks did prove their worth.  In one engagement, a single British Mark I commanded by a 2LT Storey single-handedly captured a formidable German position and 300 prisoners.  Fletcher also discusses the eight Mark I tanks used at Gaza in Palestine in 1917.  The final sections cover several variants of the Mark I, included the similar Mark II and Mark III.  The photographs and illustrations in the volume are excellent.  The color plates include: the Lincoln Machine; Little Willie; Mother; camouflage schemes on Mark Is in 1916; a cutaway of a Mark I Male; a Mark I in Palestine; the Mark II and III variants; and the supply tank and wireless radio tank variants.  Unfortunately, the author does not provide a bibliography or notes on sources of photographs.<br /> All told, the British built 150 Mark I tanks, plus 50 each of the Mark II and Mark III variants.  Virtually allof these tanks were non-operational by 1918, but these 250 early tanks paved the way for their sturdier successors.  While some modern critics have attempted to characterize the early British tanks as too few in number and mechanically unreliable to matter, they tend to ignore the value of these first steps in creating a viable tank corps.  Like many early-model weapons, the British Mark I was not itself destined to conquer on the battlefield, but it laid the seeds for its successors to reap at Cambrai in 1917 and Amiens in 1918.y all of these tanks were non-operational by 1918, but these 250 early tanks paved the way for their sturdier successors.  While some modern critics have attempted to characterize the early British tanks as too few in number and mechanically unreliable to matter, they tend to ignore the value of these first steps in creating a viable tank corps.  Like many early-model weapons, the British Mark I was not itself destined to conquer on the battlefield, but it laid the seeds for its successors to reap at Cambrai in 1917 and Amiens in 1918.	2004-07-16
611428:US	52533596	R2TLXOOKEZ6KAU	1841766887	746418502	British Artillery 1914–19: Field Army Artillery (New Vanguard)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	A Nice Summary	British graduate student Dale Clarke has produced a nice summary of British artillery in the First World War in Osprey's New Vanguard #94; one can only hope that Osprey will follow-up with other volumes on French and German artillery of that period. In accordance with the New Vanguard format, Clarke's 48-page summary focuses on the guns themselves, rather than doctrine, tactics or artillery organization.<br /> Clarke uses the introductory section to outline the structure of British artillery - Royal Horse Artillery (RHA) and Royal Field Artillery (RFA) being designed for mobile warfare and Royal Garrison Artillery (RGA) for static warfare.  Clarke also outlines the development of &quot;quick firing&quot; artillery in the 1890s and the development of Territorial Forces after the Boer War.  Artillery tactics were revolutionized with the introduction of &quot;indirect fire&quot; in 1906, but it took years before this was fully worked out.  The British adoption of the modern 13-pounder and 18-pounder guns in 1904-1908 provided the field army with adequate medium guns at the start of the First World War, backed up by the 4.5&quot; howitzer.  Clarke also details the organization of divisional artillery down to battery level.  One interesting defect of British artillery was that each battery commander could only call on fire from his own battery, which meant that massing fires was cumbersome.<br /> One of the most interesting aspects of this volume is Clarke's description of how in 1900 the British artillery, desperate to catch up to continental armies that were developing quick-firing artillery, decided to purchase a complete corps-set of modern 15-pounder guns from a German firm.  The British army purchased enough guns, wagons, limbers and ammunition to equip the &quot;Aldershot Corps&quot; with German-supplied artillery, thereby saving 5-10 years of development.  This large-scale purchase of modern military technology from a likely opponent is virtually unique in modern warfare.<br /> The bulk of this volume consists of a brief description of each of the British field pieces used in the First World War, ranging from obsolete 15-pounders to mountain guns.  Clarke's decision to include some obsolete pieces, such as the handful of 2.95&quot; mountain guns which &quot;were acquired to defend coaling stations&quot; seems wasteful of the limited space available.  Some of the space wasted describing obsolete training weapons might have been better spent describing the larger 6-inch and 8-inch howitzers that dominated the Western Front from 1916 onward.  Clarke does include some interesting observations, such as the adoption of the 4.7-inch field gun after the Boer War; although the weapon was inefficient and a more capable successor was in development, the British press extolled this inefficient weapon and pliable politicians approved massive purchases of the gun for the Territorials.  There is a lesson in the 4.7-inch field gun about how some weapons acquire a life of their own, irrespective of battlefield performance.<br /> Color plates include: the BLC 15-pounder gun, a QF 15-pounder field gun; a 13-pounder gun; a QF 4.5-inch howitzer; a detailed plate of an 18-pounder field gun; horse teams for various guns; a 60-pounder and 4.7-inch gun; and three different types of mountain guns.  Clarke usually provides the number of weapons produced for each type, as well as rounds fired.  Technically, the British had decent medium artillery at the start of the war, but lacked the heavier guns needed for trench warfare until 1916-1917.dern warfare.  <br /> The bulk of this volume consists of a brief description of each of the British field pieces used in the First World War, ranging from obsolete 15-pounders to mountain guns.  Clarke's decision to include some obsolete pieces, such as the handful of 2.95&quot; mountain guns which &quot;were acquired to defend coaling stations&quot; seems wasteful of the limited space available.  Some of the space wasted describing obsolete training weapons might have been better spent describing the larger 6-inch and 8-inch howitzers that dominated the Western Front from 1916 onward.  Clarke does include some interesting observations, such as the adoption of the 4.7-inch field gun after the Boer War; although the weapon was inefficient and a more capable successor was in development, the British press extolled this inefficient weapon and pliable politicians approved massive purchases of the gun for the Territorials.  There is a lesson in the 4.7-inch field gun about how some weapons acquire a life of their own, irrespective of battlefield performance.  <br /> Color plates include: the BLC 15-pounder gun, a QF 15-pounder field gun; a 13-pounder gun; a QF 4.5-inch howitzer; a detailed plate of an 18-pounder field gun; horse teams for various guns; a 60-pounder and 4.7-inch gun; and three different types of mountain guns.  Clarke usually provides the number of weapons produced for each type, as well as rounds fired.  Technically, the British had decent medium artillery at the start of the war, but lacked the heavier guns needed for trench warfare until 1916-1917.	2004-06-28
612952:US	52533596	RPVOITXP0PBWD	1841765716	494801312	German Airborne Divisions: Blitzkrieg 1940–41 (Battle Orders)	Books	3	9	10	N	Y	A Promising but Weak Hybrid Product	Osprey's new Battle Orders series attempts to blend features from the campaign, elite and order of battle series into a hybrid.  Unfortunately, this type of hybrid is far too complex for a 96-page format and results in a promising but ultimately flawed product.  Bruce Quarrie, a journalist well-known for writing on the German military in the Second World War, attempts in Battle Orders #4 to summarize the command, organization, evolution, doctrine, training, tactics and equipment of the German airborne forces in 1940-1941 (actually, there was only one true airborne division in this period).  This is a worthy task, but far beyond the structural restraints of this format and the reader will sense that the author was squeezed on every page.  It is particularly obvious in the author's shallow treatment of the well-known operations at Fort Eban Emael and Crete.  While this volume is a handy reference on this subject, it cannot stand alone.<br /> After a short introduction on the background of the airborne forces concept, Quarrie lays out the primary missions established by the Germans for their nascent airborne arm: capturing key objectives such as bridges, seizure of enemy airfields and to create a new front unexpected by the enemy.  Actually, this \\"combat mission\\" section is one of the better elements in the Battle Orders series and while succinct, is useful for military professionals.  Surprisingly, the section on doctrine and training is only 3 pages, but the section on command, control & intelligence is 8 pages.  Quarrie notes that the German airborne branch was often let down by Abwehr intelligence, resulting in stronger-than-expected resistance.<br /> Nearly half the volume is occupied with a very detailed analysis of the two German airborne divisions: the army's 22nd \\"Luftland\\" (air-portable) and the Luftwafe's 7th Flieger Division (7FJ).  Military professionals will particularly enjoy the numerous line and block order of battle charts in this section, which detail sub-units down to company and even platoon level.  Quarrie's description of how the 7FJ was formed under Reich Marshal Goering's direction is particularly interesting; rather than a homogenous force, Germany's first airborne division was glued together from \\"a pot-pourri of disparate units,\\" including Luftwaffe, army, SA and even police detachments. At the start of the war, 7FJ numbered only 4,000 men and had virtually no artillery or support units.  Hitler decided to keep the airborne under wraps until they could be used decisively against the Anglo-French (a smart decision), so they were not used in Poland and only two battalions were used in Denmark-Norway.  It is interesting that of the three airborne companies used in the initial invasion of Norway, one was overwhelmed and forced to surrender.  By May 1940, the 7FJ was still a weak division that consisted primarily of airborne infantry without support weapons and even the division staff was amazingly junior (the operations officer was only a captain and the intelligence officer was a lieutenant).  Furthermore, there was a serious shortage of senior officers even in the line battalions, which were normally led by captains.  Lacking organic artillery, 7FJ was almost totally dependent upon air support.  By the invasion of Crete in May 1941, 7FJ had grown to a reinforced division with 13 infantry battalions but still very weak in supporting weapons.<br /> Quarrie's treatment of Fort Eban Emael, the landings in Holland and particularly Crete, are extremely shallow.  While this is not a campaign title and the author asserts that these actions are well known, that does not absolve him of providing readers with the essential details of these actions.  Quarrie provides good detail on the assault landings of the Koch detachment in Belgium in May 1940, but virtually ignores the capture of Fort Eban Emael.  Indeed, nowhere in the volume does Quarrie mention the use of hollow charges at Fort Eban Emael - an important oversight.  Furthermore, Quarrie spends over 20 pages detailing the organization of the 22nd Luftlande division, then spends only a few sentences discussing the division's operations in Holland (it's one and only air-landing operation of the war). The Luftlande division's specific objectives and casualties are noticeably absent.  While Quarrie's OB data for Crete is very good, he really only concerns himself with the operations around M&aacute;leme and virtually ignores the rest.  Given the fact that the Germans made so few airborne drops in this period, ignoring regimental-size drops at Retimo and Heraklion seems to hurt the content of this volume.  It is also disappointing, given the heavy German airborne losses on Crete, that Quarrie makes no effort to discuss losses by each regiment or battalion, or how the division was structured immediately after Crete.<br /> The volume includes six tactical maps: Waalhaven/Rotterdam landings; Dordrecht/Moerdijk landings; a plan of Fort Eban Emael; the Koch detachment landings around Maastricht; the Corinth canal operation; and the M&aacute;leme landings on Crete.  Unfortunately, Quarrie does not include any operational-level maps, depicting the layout of all German airborne landings in Holland or Crete, so it will be difficult for readers to get a comprehensive understanding of the operational use of German airborne troops or how they supported the campaign plan.  Quarrie also includes a section on tactics, which notes that the Germans were initially restricted by a parachute that could only handle about 190 pounds (thus German paratroops could not drop with weapons).  Poor navigational equipment also restricted the Germans to daylight-only airborne operations. The author also includes sections on weapons and equipment, as well as lessons learned.  Essentially, this volume shows that the Germans glued together an airborne force for their early Blitzkrieg campaigns but the force had many of the weaknesses inherent in an experimental unit: small numbers, first-generation equipment, incomplete MTOE, inexperienced leadership, inadequate logistics, etc.  Quarrie's volume whets the appetite of military specialists for a single volume that packs a wealth of information on historic formations such as these, but the defects of this hybrid format will ultimately leave most readers unsatisfied.oversight.  Furthermore, Quarrie spends over 20 pages detailing the organization of the 22nd Luftlande division, then spends only a few sentences discussing the division's operations in Holland (it's one and only air-landing operation of the war). The Luftlande division's specific objectives and casualties are noticeably absent.  While Quarrie's OB data for Crete is very good, he really only concerns himself with the operations around Máleme and virtually ignores the rest.  Given the fact that the Germans made so few airborne drops in this period, ignoring regimental-size drops at Retimo and Heraklion seems to hurt the content of this volume.  It is also disappointing, given the heavy German airborne losses on Crete, that Quarrie makes no effort to discuss losses by each regiment or battalion, or how the division was structured immediately after Crete.  <br /> The volume includes six tactical maps: Waalhaven/Rotterdam landings; Dordrecht/Moerdijk landings; a plan of Fort Eban Emael; the Koch detachment landings around Maastricht; the Corinth canal operation; and the Máleme landings on Crete.  Unfortunately, Quarrie does not include any operational-level maps, depicting the layout of all German airborne landings in Holland or Crete, so it will be difficult for readers to get a comprehensive understanding of the operational use of German airborne troops or how they supported the campaign plan.  Quarrie also includes a section on tactics, which notes that the Germans were initially restricted by a parachute that could only handle about 190 pounds (thus German paratroops could not drop with weapons).  Poor navigational equipment also restricted the Germans to daylight-only airborne operations. The author also includes sections on weapons and equipment, as well as lessons learned.  Essentially, this volume shows that the Germans glued together an airborne force for their early Blitzkrieg campaigns but the force had many of the weaknesses inherent in an experimental unit: small numbers, first-generation equipment, incomplete MTOE, inexperienced leadership, inadequate logistics, etc.  Quarrie's volume whets the appetite of military specialists for a single volume that packs a wealth of information on historic formations such as these, but the defects of this hybrid format will ultimately leave most readers unsatisfied.	2004-06-27
613112:US	52533596	R2N1Q2V5XYUBTU	1841768049	451096286	Saipan & Tinian 1944: Piercing the Japanese Empire (Campaign)	Books	3	26	31	N	Y	History without humanity	Gordon L. Rottman's Osprey Campaign #137, Saipan and Tinian 1944, is effective in laying out and summarizing the events of the campaign, but it is dry as dirt.  Rottman provides a wealth of information indicating that he has much to offer military readers, but he lacks the style - in what he chooses to discuss and how he describes it - that renders this volume rather sterile.  Assaulting two tropical islands defended by thousands of fanatical defenders should evoke emotions of fear, courage and resignation, but Rottman can only offer terse descriptions of sequential unit movements and actions.  Indeed, if one were to remove all the unit designations and the words &quot;moved,&quot; &quot;landed,&quot; &quot;attacked&quot; and &quot;defended&quot; from this volume there wouldn't be much left to this narrative. Rottman's knowledge of the US Marine Corps is impressive, but he doesn't seem to be aware that history is made by human beings, not by faceless unit designations.  Nowhere is Rottman's omission of the human element in this campaign more evident in the fact that he fails to mention any of the five Medal of Honor recipients on Saipan (Agerholm, Baker, Epperson, McCard and Timmerman) and the two on Tinian (Ozbourn, Wilson); all seven were KIA and they deserve mention.<br /> Rottman begins with a 5-page introduction that lays out the origins of the campaign and the nature of the two islands (although he omits mentioning the civilian population of the island).  The lack of a strategic map depicting the location of the islands in the Pacific or their relation to the other invasion on Guam, is a serious omission.  The author then discusses the US invasion plan, included the unprecedented large-scale use of over 600 amphibious tractors (amtracs), which Rottman notes &quot;set the standard for future operations.&quot;  One odd point here is that Rottman notes that the invasion plan for Saipan included an option to land a reinforced battalion on the opposite side of the island the night before the main invasion, in order to drive inland a seize a key piece of high ground.  Although Rottman notes that &quot;this extremely risky mission&quot; - which is a euphemism for suicidal - was cancelled, he never identifies who ordered it in the first place.  The Japanese army and navy forces defending Saipan and Tinian were handicapped with a number of serious deficiencies that undermined their efforts, including lack of a unified command; shortages of ammunition, construction materials, artillery and small arms; and heavy losses from US submarine attacks while enroute to the islands (according to Rottman, about 3,000 troops were lost to submarine attacks).  Rottman notes that about 40% of the 31,000 Japanese army troops on Saipan were unarmed, and that many fighting positions were incomplete.  On the other hand, the Japanese forces had a high level of fanaticism and were able to cunningly use their meager reserves to inflict serious losses on the US invaders.<br /> Rottman provides only five 2-D maps in this volume: Japanese defenses on Saipan and on Tinian; the battle in central Saipan on 27 June 1944; and the capture of Tinian.  The three 3-D Bird's Eye View Maps are: D-Day, Green Beach on Saipan; the Japanese Banzai attack on Saipan; and J-Day on Tinian.  The three color battle scenes depict: clearing Afetna Point on Saipan; Japanese tank attack on Saipan; and LVTs emplacing &quot;cliff ramps&quot; on Tinian.  While Rottman's bibliography is conventional, his order of battle is superb, with all the myriad minor detachments noted.  Rottman also provides information on the battlefield today.<br /> Although Saipan is one of many Second World war invasions that has been all but forgotten due to the hyping (milking) of D-Day, Rottman notes that US forces suffered over 2,000 casualties on the first day of the landings - comparable to Omaha Beach, which occurred nine days earlier.  Despite landing with two divisions abreast, the US Marines required two days of fighting to seal the inter-division boundary - a defect which the Japanese cunningly exploited with repeated small-scale counterattacks.  After twelve days of fighting, the two Marine divisions and one army division had secured most of the island and began the final costly reduction of Japanese pockets.  It was during this period that the senior US ground commander, Marine LGN &quot;Howling Mad&quot; Smith relieved the army commander of the 27th Infantry Division.  While Rottman mentions that this controversial decision was unwarranted, he does so in a footnote and seems to have little sympathy for the 27th ID on Saipan.  However, a close examination of the tactical combat indicates that the army units and commanders on Saipan performed admirably and the relief was probably due more to differences on tactical philosophies rather than failure to accomplish the mission.  The landings on Tinian are interesting because the Americans chose to ignore the best beaches and achieve surprise by landing on tiny, sub-optimal stretches of beach.  Indeed, the two landing beaches on Tinian were only 114 meters wide and the US units were forced to land in company columns, but they achieved tactical surprise. Rottman's description of the LVT-launched &quot;cliff ramps&quot; is a good example of American engineering ingenuity to solve a tactical problem.<br /> In the end, the battles on Saipan and Tinian were foregone conclusions due to US air and naval superiority, but the cost for both sides was still very high: over 18,000 US casualties (3,700 dead) against about 37,000 Japanese military and 26,000 civilian deaths.  Indeed, more than half the population of the islands died in the fighting.  With the islands secured, the US began the end game for the Pacific War, of putting heavy bombers in range of the Japanese industrial heartland.  Rottman gets his facts straight, but forgets to include the kind of personal accounts that bring military history to life.uired two days of fighting to seal the inter-division boundary - a defect which the Japanese cunningly exploited with repeated small-scale counterattacks.  After twelve days of fighting, the two Marine divisions and one army division had secured most of the island and began the final costly reduction of Japanese pockets.  It was during this period that the senior US ground commander, Marine LGN &quot;Howling Mad&quot; Smith relieved the army commander of the 27th Infantry Division.  While Rottman mentions that this controversial decision was unwarranted, he does so in a footnote and seems to have little sympathy for the 27th ID on Saipan.  However, a close examination of the tactical combat indicates that the army units and commanders on Saipan performed admirably and the relief was probably due more to differences on tactical philosophies rather than failure to accomplish the mission.  The landings on Tinian are interesting because the Americans chose to ignore the best beaches and achieve surprise by landing on tiny, sub-optimal stretches of beach.  Indeed, the two landing beaches on Tinian were only 114 meters wide and the US units were forced to land in company columns, but they achieved tactical surprise. Rottman's description of the LVT-launched &quot;cliff ramps&quot; is a good example of American engineering ingenuity to solve a tactical problem.  <br /> In the end, the battles on Saipan and Tinian were foregone conclusions due to US air and naval superiority, but the cost for both sides was still very high: over 18,000 US casualties (3,700 dead) against about 37,000 Japanese military and 26,000 civilian deaths.  Indeed, more than half the population of the islands died in the fighting.  With the islands secured, the US began the end game for the Pacific War, of putting heavy bombers in range of the Japanese industrial heartland.  Rottman gets his facts straight, but forgets to include the kind of personal accounts that bring military history to life.	2004-06-27
631797:US	52533596	RN28IYV44MK1	1841766232	247453060	Cassino 1944: Breaking the Gustav Line (Campaign)	Books	3	13	13	N	Y	Lacks Detail Needed for a Proper Study	Ken Ford's Cassino 1944: Breaking the Gustav Line, which is Number 137 in the Osprey campaign series, probably attempts to bite off more than can be reasonably summarized in a 96-page format.  The author's decision to include a substantial amount of coverage on the Anzio landing - certainly worthy of its own Osprey title - detracts from space available to cover the Cassino battles.  Furthermore, the author fails to provide the kind of critical analysis or detail that would enable serious military readers to evaluate a lengthy and controversial campaign; for example, important details on troop strengths involved and casualties are often omitted.  Overall, this Osprey volume on Cassino falls short of the type of summary that a reader might reasonably expect from such a well-known battle.<br />  Ford begins the volume in the standard fashion, with an introduction that sets the strategic background to the Cassino campaign and the operational background, sketching the Allied advance to the German Gustav Line.  The chronology that follows is inadequate, since it only mentions &quot;start dates&quot; for Allied offensives at Cassino, with little mention of actions on specific days.  The section on opposing leaders is threadbare, listing only operational level commanders (theater, army and corps), showing only photos of two German division-level commanders.  Ford also slights French General Juin who played a critical role in the first and fourth battles of Cassino, but gets only a nod here.  This section is unfortunate, because Cassino was a very tactical battle and the division-level leadership counted far more than remote operational commanders.  The section on opposing armies is inadequate.  First, Ford should have mentioned that there were over 700,000 Allied troops in Italy facing about 412,000 German troops, giving the Allies an almost 2-1 edge in manpower.  Second, Ford spends little effort mentioning important differences, such as the fact that the 2nd New Zealand Division was an over-size unit with almost 25,000 troops but most of the German divisions had only about 6-7,000 men.  The order of battle appears to be a complete muddle, and Ford lists most Allied and German brigade and higher units that were involved in the Cassino battles at various times, but it also includes Darby's Rangers who did not fight at Cassino but omits the entire Polish II Corps which actually seized Cassino Monastery (whoops!).  No artillery units are mentioned - like the German 71st Nebelwerfer Brigade that so ably supported the 1st Parachute Division or the US 240mm batteries.  Ford's section on opposing plans fails to note that the first Allied offensive against the Gustav Line in January 1944 failed to actually designate any specific units to seize the critical Monastery position, nor was any special air or artillery support arranged to breach a known fortified line.  Nor does Ford note the operational-level incoherence introduced by the Anzio landing: which was the Allied main effort in Italy - 6th Corps at Anzio or US 5th Army on the Gustav Line?<br />  The maps are also a bit skimpy in this volume, with only five 2-D Maps: advance to the Gustav Line; US 5th Army's attack on the Gustav Line; US VI Corps landing at Anzio; New Zealand II Corps attack; Operation Diadem.  Unfortunately, there is no map depicting the link-up between the Allied forces that broke through the Gustav Line and the Anzio beachhead - a crucial omission.  The three 3-D &quot;Bird's Eye View&quot; maps depict: the US II Corps attack north of Cassino; the third battle of Cassino and the Polish II Corps captures the monastery.  The three battlescenes by Howard Gerrard depict: the American attack across the Rapido river; German paratroopers defending Cassino town and Polish infantry advancing on Snakeshead Ridge.  The bibliography provided is modest and the notes on the battlefield today are rather terse.<br />  Ford's description of the US 36th Infantry Division attack acrossthe Rapido river on 20-21 January 1944 is decent and this was one of the most botched US military actions of the entire war, on a par with the action at Sidi bou Zid in February 1943.  The attack was an incredibly bad plan that was made in the style of Passchendaele in 1917 - without regard to terrain, weather or the enemy - and it failed miserably.  The awful plan was also made worse by faulty execution due to very poor coordination between infantry, artillery and engineers.  However, there is a tendency to exaggerate the significance of the 36th Division's defeat, which incurred 1,681 casualties in a 48-hour period.  While this attack failed, the adjacent 34th Infantry Division successfully carved out a bridgehead on the western side of the Rapido and captured terrain that provided the vital jumping off positions needed to encircle Cassino.  Furthermore, while these two US divisions suffered about 4,500 casualties in this first battle, the French Expeditionary Corps (FEC) also seized vital terrain north of Cassino but at the cost of 7,800 casualties (facts omitted by Ford).  Put in proper perspective, the 36th Division failure to cross the Rapido was a tactical setback, but the success of the 34th Division and FEC attacks more than outweighed that defeat.<br /><br /> Ford's description of the second and third battles for Cassino has odd omissions, like he fails to note that the third battle was known as Operation Dickens.  Readers might also miss the fact from Ford's description that the New Zealanders committed only a handful of their battalions to this set-piece battle and thereby eschewed any kind of numerical advantage over a dug-in defender. Oftentimes, Cassino is presented as an &quot;Italian Stalingrad&quot; but this is just not apt.  If Ford had provided casualty figures for the actions around Cassino, they would have been surprised to see that the Allies suffered only 287 killed in action in the third battle, versus 315 German KIA. All told, the Cassino fighting cost the Allies about 25,000 casualties in five months of fighting; significant, but certainly not crippling.ivision attack across the Rapido river on 20-21 January 1944 is decent and this was one of the most botched US military actions of the entire war, on a par with the action at Sidi bou Zid in February 1943.  The attack was an incredibly bad plan that was made in the style of Passchendaele in 1917 - without regard to terrain, weather or the enemy - and it failed miserably.  The awful plan was also made worse by faulty execution due to very poor coordination between infantry, artillery and engineers.  However, there is a tendency to exaggerate the significance of the 36th Division's defeat, which incurred 1,681 casualties in a 48-hour period.  While this attack failed, the adjacent 34th Infantry Division successfully carved out a bridgehead on the western side of the Rapido and captured terrain that provided the vital jumping off positions needed to encircle Cassino.  Furthermore, while these two US divisions suffered about 4,500 casualties in this first battle, the French Expeditionary Corps (FEC) also seized vital terrain north of Cassino but at the cost of 7,800 casualties (facts omitted by Ford).  Put in proper perspective, the 36th Division failure to cross the Rapido was a tactical setback, but the success of the 34th Division and FEC attacks more than outweighed that defeat.  <BR> <br /> Ford's description of the second and third battles for Cassino has odd omissions, like he fails to note that the third battle was known as Operation Dickens.  Readers might also miss the fact from Ford's description that the New Zealanders committed only a handful of their battalions to this set-piece battle and thereby eschewed any kind of numerical advantage over a dug-in defender. Oftentimes, Cassino is presented as an &quot;Italian Stalingrad&quot; but this is just not apt.  If Ford had provided casualty figures for the actions around Cassino, they would have been surprised to see that the Allies suffered only 287 killed in action in the third battle, versus 315 German KIA.All told, the Cassino fighting cost the Allies about 25,000 casualties in five months of fighting; significant, but certainly not crippling.	2004-06-12
641076:US	52533596	R3QZ7XDED5F3Q4	184176373X	827827738	The Mediterranean Front 1914-1923 (4)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	An Anglo-centric Summary	Readers should be aware that Geoffrey Jukes is not connected with this volume in any way, despite Amazon's listing. Retired British army colonel Michael Hickey covers the Mediterranean theater (and Persian Gulf) in Osprey's fourth volume in the Essential Histories series on the First World War. Overall, the author provides an adequate - at times excellent - summary of a variety of peripheral campaigns, but this volume suffers from the same Anglo-centric bias as the previous volumes. Readers expecting Turkish, ANZAC, French, Serb or Arab perspectives will be disappointed by the over-emphasis on British forces.<br /> Hickey begins the volume with a background section on the decline of the Ottoman Empire, but spends a great deal of time discussing Turkey's neighbors. The section on opposing armies is decent, providing brief descriptions of the British fleet (although he fails to list the actual strength of the Mediterranean fleet in 1914), Italy, Serbia, Austria-Hungary and Turkey.  Only eight very plain maps are included: Serbia and Salonika 1914-1916; the Mesopotamian theater 1914-1917; Gallipoli 1915; War in the desert 1915-1918; campaigns in Sinai and Palestine 1914-18; Megiddo September 1918; the Italian front 1915-18; eastern Mediterranean.  The maps mostly depict terrain, with little effort made to depict actual campaigns, except for Gallipoli and Palestine.<br /> The heart of the volume is the section on the fighting in the Mediterranean area in 1914-1918 (despite the author's claim to cover fighting out to 1923, he says very little about post-Armistice events).  Hickey has a lot of ground to cover in a very limited space and his campaign descriptions, while often quite good, feel crammed.  The author covers the invasion of Serbia, the Mesopotamian campaign, Gallipoli, the Sinai-Palestine campaigns, the Italian campaign, Salonika and Macedonia and the naval war in the Mediterranean.  As in previous Osprey volumes in the series, air operations are only lightly touched upon.  Although Hickey's description of the elderly Serb King Peter I fighting with his troops in the defense of Belgrade is quite stirring, the author's Anglo-centric bias is evident in twice mentioning in three pages the small British detachment of naval gunners sent to the Serb's help.  Much less space is given to mentioning the Serb Marshal Putnik who masterminded the magnificent defense of the capital in 1914-15, and the fact that Putnik had to be carried around in a litter.  It is clear that Gallipoli is the author's main focus and this comprises nearly one quarter of the campaign narrative.  The other campaigns are covered in succinct fashion.<br /> Just as in the previous Osprey volumes in this series, Hickey's Anglo-centrism appears in full-bloom in the sections on &quot;portrait of a soldier&quot; and &quot;portrait of a civilian.&quot;  In the former, the author uses three British brothers who served separately in the Mediterranean area; one served in the Royal Garrison Artillery (RGA), another as a ground crewman in the Royal Flying Corps (RFC) and the third in the cavalry.  Despite spending five pages on these individuals, Hickey actually provides very little detail about the actual military service of these men and the reader is presented mostly with information about their leave in Alexandria and complaints about lack of mail.  The civilian section then profiles the family and village that these three brothers came from in England.  Given that the two volumes on the Western Front both profiled British soldiers and civilians, did we really need the British perspective presented for a third time?  The author would have provided a better service to the reader if he had given some Australian perspectives, given that those troops played such a critical role in the theater.  Alternatively, key individuals like Erwin Rommel and T.E. Lawrence could offer interesting examples of soldiers who actually played a key role in this theater.  The &quot;world around the war&quot; section is disappointing, consisting of overly generalized pap on technology, civilian morale, and medicine.  Overall, this volume is clearly the weakest of the four that Osprey has produced on the First World War and it is not recommended as a stand-alone summary of this theater of operations.ld around the war&quot; section is disappointing, consisting of overly generalized pap on technology, civilian morale, and medicine.  Overall, this volume is clearly the weakest of the four that Osprey has produced on the First World War and it is not recommended as a stand-alone summary of this theater of operations.	2004-06-05
647791:US	52533596	RJMDGFCYTC5QF	1841763470	732177761	The First World War (2): The Western Front 1914–1916 (Essential Histories)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Unabashed English View of the War - Part One	Peter Simkins, a former senior historian at the Imperial War Museum, provides an excellent summary of the First World War on the Western Front in Osprey's two volume Essential Histories series.  Simkins brings his vast knowledge of the subject to bear and delivers a tight narrative that hits all the highlights of the war on this front; overall, this is an excellent summary. Unfortunately, Simkins also brings an unabashed over-emphasis on the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) in France - at the expense of the French and Americans.  British mistakes tend to get glossed over in this account and the role of Britain in the Allied victory borders on exaggeration.  Simkins is also unwilling to swerve in the slightest from conventional wisdom on this subject and accepts unequivocal German war guilt at face value (views on this subject are highly controversial and have evolved over time, but Simkins eschews both controversy and historiographical evolution).  While Simkins' two volumes offer an excellent summary of the First World War on the Western Front, readers should be aware that this is the &quot;official&quot; BEF version of events, with much less balance from other participants.<br /> The author's opening section on &quot;the road to war&quot; is excellent and carefully weaves together the wide diversity of factors that led to the outbreak of the First World War.  While the author's assessment that &quot;the primacy of Germany's responsibility for war in 1914&quot; is obvious based upon its preparations of an offensive war plan, the guilt of other actors (such as Russian cultivation of Serb ultra-nationalism that led to the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand) is alluded to but not exposed.  The section on opposing armies, while brief, is also excellent.  The author includes ten maps to support his narrative: European alliances 1914-1916; the rival war plans; the battle of the frontiers; the First Battle of Ypres; the Battle of Neuve Chapelle; the Battle of Loos; the Western Front 1914-1918; the Battle of Verdun; the Somme Offensive 1 July 1916; and the final phase of the Somme offensive. The author's English bias is evident in the maps, with five of ten maps focusing on British battles but only one on a French battle; even the map on the 1914 Battle of the Frontiers fails to depict the doomed French offensive in Lorraine.  Given the importance of the Battle of the Marne, a map should also have been included on that subject over a relatively minor battle like Neuve Chapelle (which was important in English eyes, but otherwise no more significant than the many failed French offensives in 1915).<br /> The author's narrative of the fighting in 1914-1916 is clear, concise and often insightful.  While Simkins notes the standard criticisms of the German Schlieffen Plan - logistical weakness and Moltke's weakening of the critical right wing - he also notes that the Germans failed to adequately address Belgian resistance: &quot;what really harmed their plan was the need to detach some five corps from their right wing to invest Naumur, Maubeuge and Antwerp.&quot;  As Simkins sees it, the Germans put inadequate forces into their main effort, then diverted too many forces from that weakened effort on secondary tasks, then loss their nerve due to a puny Allied counterattack on the Marne.  Simkins also views the German decision to revert to the defense on the Western Front in November 1914 - instead of finishing off the depleted BEF - as &quot;a huge mistake.&quot; Aside from ignoring the exhaustion of Germany's own troops at that point, Simkins exaggerates the value of the BEF remnants in the fall of 1914, which were perhaps 5% of Allied troops on the front. In fact, the original BEF was essentially destroyed by this point and the Germans had no ability to destroy the dozens of new divisions being raised in England, Canada and Australia.  After detailing the various offensives of 1915, Simkins concludes the narrative section with accounts of the two great set-piece battles, Verdun and the Somme.  The discussion of the Somme is adequate, but fails to convey the &quot;mission creep&quot; in the German plan that caused a deliberate attritional battle to transform into a major bloodletting for both sides.  On the other hand, Simkins' discussion of the Somme follows the standard British line, that while losses were high, the offensive succeeded in &quot;gutting&quot; the German army of pre-war regulars and thereby contributed to victory later.  In reality, the Somme was an expensive failure that &quot;gutted&quot; the BEF far more than the Germans and it was the combination of having to fight both Verdun and the Somme in 1916 that really strained the Germans. The only real omission in this volume is the lack of any real detail on the air war (e.g. the &quot;Fokker scourge&quot;).<br /> The final sections in this volume are paeans to British sensibilities about the First World War.  The section, &quot;Portrait of a Soldier&quot; details the experiences of a 19-year old British private who served only six months in the period of this volume.  Certainly highlighting one of the &quot;Old Contemptibles&quot; of 1914 or one of the New Army &quot;Pals Battalion&quot; members would have been more representative of the British war effort in this period.  This section is followed by &quot;Portrait of a Civilian&quot; which - surprise, surprise - covers a British female auxiliary.  Obviously, no attempt was made to balance this volume with French or British perspectives. The section on home fronts does provide three paragraphs each on Germany and France, but this is relatively an afterthought. Overall, this volume is an excellent summary of the first two years of the war on the Western Front, albeit for an Anglo-centric perspective.accounts of the two great set-piece battles, Verdun and the Somme.  The discussion of the Somme is adequate, but fails to convey the &quot;mission creep&quot; in the German plan that caused a deliberate attritional battle to transform into a major bloodletting for both sides.  On the other hand, Simkins' discussion of the Somme follows the standard British line, that while losses were high, the offensive succeeded in &quot;gutting&quot; the German army of pre-war regulars and thereby contributed to victory later.  In reality, the Somme was an expensive failure that &quot;gutted&quot; the BEF far more than the Germans and it was the combination of having to fight both Verdun and the Somme in 1916 that really strained the Germans. The only real omission in this volume is the lack of any real detail on the air war (e.g. the &quot;Fokker scourge&quot;).  <br /> The final sections in this volume are paeans to British sensibilities about the First World War.  The section, &quot;Portrait of a Soldier&quot; details the experiences of a 19-year old British private who served only six months in the period of this volume.  Certainly highlighting one of the &quot;Old Contemptibles&quot; of 1914 or one of the New Army &quot;Pals Battalion&quot; members would have been more representative of the British war effort in this period.  This section is followed by &quot;Portrait of a Civilian&quot; which - surprise, surprise - covers a British female auxiliary.  Obviously, no attempt was made to balance this volume with French or British perspectives. The section on home fronts does provide three paragraphs each on Germany and France, but this is relatively an afterthought. Overall, this volume is an excellent summary of the first two years of the war on the Western Front, albeit for an Anglo-centric perspective.	2004-05-31
648408:US	52533596	RB4G0LR76J196	1841763489	934455496	003: The First World War (3): The Western Front 1917–1918 (Essential Histories)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	The Unabashed English View of the War - Part Two	Peter Simkins, a former senior historian at the Imperial War Museum, picks up in this volume of Osprey's Essential Histories series where he left off at the end of 1916.  As in the first volume, Simkins' narrative is clear and concise, but skewed with an Anglo-centric focus that downplays the participation of non-Englishmen on the Western Front.<br /> Rather than the standard section on &quot;background to war,&quot; Simkins begins this volume with a discussion of Allied and German strategic choices for 1917.  Since this volume is a continuation of the first, the normal sections with background material on the warring sides and the political issues are omitted, which renders this volume less than ideal as a stand-alone.  The author provides ten maps to support his narrative: the Western Front 1914-1918; the German withdrawal in 1917; the Battle of Arras; the Nivelle Offensive; the Third Battle of Ypres; Operation Michael; the end of Operation Michael; the German 1918 offensives; the Battle of Amiens; the final Allied offensives. As in the first volume, Simkins' Anglo-centric bias is evident in the maps, which primarily emphasize British offensives.  The lack of any maps depicting the American St. Mihiel or Argonne offensives, or the Franco-American counterattack at Soissons are noteworthy omissions.  Air operations are also slighted in this volume, as in the first.<br /> Simkins' narrative begins with the German withdrawal to the Hindenburg Line in March 1917, followed by the British offensive at Arras and the French Nivelle offensive. Simkins is honest that the Arras offensive represented a mixed bag, with the capture of Vimy Ridge to its credit, but balanced against the highest daily casualty rate of the war for the British.  Simkins also notes that the British were slow to modify their tactics, e.g. using tanks in &quot;penny packets&quot; over bad terrain.  Although the author notes that the British had &quot;ambiguous objectives and a faulty plan&quot; in describing the follow-up offensive that resulted in the Third Battle of Ypres, his discussion fails to convey the utter stupidity of that offensive. Indeed, throughout the text, Simkins defends the British BEF commander, General Douglas Haig, despite enormous evidence that Haig's bull-headedness caused unnecessary loss of life by maintaining an almost religious belief that &quot;one more push&quot; would gain a breakthrough at Ypres. Nor does Simkins ever discuss whether Haig's belief that a breakthrough at Ypres would prove decisive was really justified other than a few small channel ports, no major objectives were near Ypres).<br /> In covering the fighting in 1918, Simkins is honest about the defects in the British defenses that facilitated the initial German success in the spring offensives, although again he avoids mentioning mistakes made by higher British officers, i.e. Lieutenant General Gough.  Simkins' coverage of the Allied efforts to blunt the German offensives is good, but he criticizes General Pershing's reluctance to send in the partly-trained American divisions piece-meal (failing to note that Pershing was planning for the long-term and that it was not his fault that the Allied front had virtually collapsed).  It is also interesting that Simkins' map which depicts the final Allied offensive in September-November 1918 shows no French participation.  American successes at St. Mihiel and in the Argonne are mentioned, but off to the side, as if they were sideshows.  The crucial role played by the arrival of American forces in 1918 - often exaggerated by American authors - is minimized here.  Simkins does fail to note that British forces held less of the front than either French or American troops at the end of the war.<br /> In the final sections, Simkins once again displays unabashed Anglo-centrism with his &quot;portrait of a soldier&quot; (British Private Noakes) and &quot;portrait of a civilian&quot; (British munitions worker Caroline Webb).  These characters are so similar to the two British characters described in the first volume (both soldiers were English privates born in 1896) that it is apparent that the author made no effort whatsoever to personalize the war from the French or German perspectives (or the loyal Canadians and ANZACs who came to defend the empire).  Certainly Ernst J&uuml;nger's memoirs would have been a suitable basis for representing a German point of view, and there are numerous French memoirs as well.  According to this type of historiography, the only people on the Western Front who mattered were Englishmen.  The final section, on how the war ended skimps over unrest in Germany that led to the collapse of the monarchy and it is odd that there is no mention of the total casualties suffered by each of the combatants.  A final section summarizing the human and financial costs of one of the most vicious wars in history would certainly seem appropriate, but it is not provided. Overall, this volume is not quite as good as the first.e characters are so similar to the two British characters described in the first volume (both soldiers were English privates born in 1896) that it is apparent that the author made no effort whatsoever to personalize the war from the French or German perspectives (or the loyal Canadians and ANZACs who came to defend the empire).  Certainly Ernst Jünger's memoirs would have been a suitable basis for representing a German point of view, and there are numerous French memoirs as well.  According to this type of historiography, the only people on the Western Front who mattered were Englishmen.  The final section, on how the war ended skimps over unrest in Germany that led to the collapse of the monarchy and it is odd that there is no mention of the total casualties suffered by each of the combatants.  A final section summarizing the human and financial costs of one of the most vicious wars in history would certainly seem appropriate, but it is not provided. Overall, this volume is not quite as good as the first.	2004-05-31
658397:US	52533596	RKQNY1W4PYOYO	0850529611	240812609	WALCHEREN: Crossing the Scheldt (Battleground Europe)	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	An Unusual Military Operation	In late 1944, the Allied armies advancing across northwest Europe were desperately in need of a deep-water port that could provide access for the supplies required for the final drive into Germany.  Although the port of Antwerp was seized intact, the port could not be used until the various German garrisons that guarded the Scheldt estuary leading to the port were subdued.  In  Walcheren: Operation Infatuate, Andrew Rawson covers the British amphibious invasion on 1 November 1944 to seize the island of Walcheren - certainly one of the more obscure and bizarre operations of the war.  Rawson's narrative is decent, but not up to the standard of earlier volumes in the Battleground Europe series.<br /> Rawson's volume begins with short sections on the need to open Antwerp, the German occupation of Walcheren and the garrison on the island, which consisted of about 7,000 troops from the static 70th Division and about 1,000 naval troops.  Rawson provides a fairly good section on the planning for Operation Infatuate - the amphibious landings on Walcheren - although the supporting maps are rather skimpy.  One of the oddities of the Operation Infatuate was the British decision to use RAF Bomber Command to \\"sink\\" the island; just before the invasion, heavy bombers were used to breech the island's dikes and about 2/3rds of the island was soon knee-deep in water.  While the interior of the island was mostly under water (with many civilian deaths), the German garrisons were isolated atop the rim of dikes and sand dunes on the outer edges of the island.  This decision to \\"sink\\" the island would limit the tactical mobility of both sides and reduce most operations to clearing the outer edges of the island. Many elements of the British plan were risky if not downright dumb.  The amphibious landings called for frontal assault against alerted and powerful coastal defenses.  Furthermore, the British unwisely decided to split their landings up, with the 4th Special Service Brigade (4SSB) of Royal Marine Commandos landing on the south side of the island and an army brigade on the south side of the island; neither landing could support the other if it ran into trouble.  However, the worst mistakes were in underestimating the enemy, the terrain and the weather.<br /> Straightaway, the main landings by the Royal Marines ran into much heavier resistance than expected, and the naval support group was shot to pieces by the German coastal batteries (the British had foolishly pitted unarmored landing craft gunships against heavy coastal guns in concrete bunkers).  Both the Marine and army brigades succeeded in getting ashore, but most of their tanks and support weapons were lost in the landings.  With the troops ashore - perhaps 5,000 men - the British were able to capture the German batteries near the landing beaches but they lacked the strength or mobility to do more than slowly winkle the Germans out of their bunkers.  Poor weather and heavy seas virtually shut down more landings on the beaches for several days, meaning that the British troops were soon short on ammunition and wounded could not be evacuated.  The British also had great difficulty getting across the breeches in the dikes caused by their bombing, with the amphibious tractors often unequal to the terrain. The British Royal Marines and army commandos were superb light infantry, but they were forced to tackle one bunker complex after another and they suffered at least 30% casualties in eight days of fighting on Walcheren.<br /> Walcheren bears certain resemblances to Arnhem, such as outnumbered but high quality British troops taking on second-rate German troops in a situation where the Allied plan took too many chances. Fighting on the island consisted mostly of urban combat and advances down the coastal strips, but everywhere the British were thinly spread.  In one unusual incident, 47 Commando captured an important German coastal battery but had suffered such heavy losses that they could nothold the position and a German counterattack nearly overran the unit.  German resistance was much heavier than expected and several times during the operation the British stuck their neck out too far with small forces and nearly got it chopped off.  Finally, after nearly a week of fighting, a small British force of less than 200 men was able to trick the German commander and 2,000 troops into surrendering.  Walcheren was secured after eight days of fighting and several weeks later, convoys began arriving in Antwerp.<br /> Rawson's narrative omits mention of casualties but they were quite heavy on the British side.  The author also does not provide sufficient detail on the operations that immediately preceded Infatuate, nor does he spend more than a few sentences on the Canadian crossing onto the east side of the island on November 3, 1944.  Indeed, the author might have questioned whether it might have been better to let the Canadians clear the island from the east, since most of the defenses were facing westward.  Perhaps the costly amphibious assaults and \\"sinking\\" the island were unnecessary and wasteful.  This volume should be useful for military professionals, such the circumstances of the operation were so bizarre, but there are more questions posed than answered herein.not hold the position and a German counterattack nearly overran the unit.  German resistance was much heavier than expected and several times during the operation the British stuck their neck out too far with small forces and nearly got it chopped off.  Finally, after nearly a week of fighting, a small British force of less than 200 men was able to trick the German commander and 2,000 troops into surrendering.  Walcheren was secured after eight days of fighting and several weeks later, convoys began arriving in Antwerp.      <br /> Rawson's narrative omits mention of casualties but they were quite heavy on the British side.  The author also does not provide sufficient detail on the operations that immediately preceded Infatuate, nor does he spend more than a few sentences on the Canadian crossing onto the east side of the island on November 3, 1944.  Indeed, the author might have questioned whether it might have been better to let the Canadians clear the island from the east, since most of the defenses were facing westward.  Perhaps the costly amphibious assaults and \\"sinking\\" the island were unnecessary and wasteful.  This volume should be useful for military professionals, such the circumstances of the operation were so bizarre, but there are more questions posed than answered herein.	2004-05-22
658523:US	52533596	R22CX0RTI20QB2	0850529441	439623618	Mont Pincon (Battleground Europe Normandy)	Books	2	15	16	N	Y	Not Up to Snuff	Most of Pen &amp; Sword's Battleground Europe series are excellent campaign narratives as well as handy battlefield guides.  Unfortunately, a few sub-standard volumes have snuck through the editorial cracks and one of these is Mont Pinçon by Eric Hunt.  While a few readers - probably most English readers who had relatives in the campaign - might find this volume interesting or useful, the general military reader will not.  The biggest flaw in the volume is the lack of any material on the German side; indeed, it is the provision of detailed information from &quot;the other side of the hill&quot; which has made most of the other volumes in the series so useful.  Furthermore, the author overlaps too much material from the earlier volume by Ian Daglish on Operation Bluecoat - a volume that was far superior.  Some of the other features that normally appear in the series, such as detailed orders of battle and detailed tactical maps, are missing or inadequate in this volume.  Overall, Mont Pinçon is inadequate as military history.<br /> Readers will probably grow suspicious about the quality of this volume after looking at the rather long 16-page introduction, which serves as a brief overview of the units and weapons involved in the Battle of Mont Pinçon.  Instead of providing the kind of detail most military readers desire (e.g. composition, disposition, tactics, leadership, etc), the author chooses to use quotes from veterans about various weapon systems like mortars.  Many of the veterans' ranks and units are not identified and it is unclear if these men were qualified observers or merely someone whose anecdotes were handy.  After a brief run-down of the American Operation Cobra and the British Operation Bluecoat, Hunt then launches into his campaign narrative, with fully half the volume events occurring before the attack on Mont Pinçon; readers will note that too much material is derived from Field Marshal Montgomery's memoirs.  Readers of the previous volume of Operation Bluecoat will see much of the same material replicated herein, although with less detail.  Once Hunt gets us to the slopes of Mont Pinçon on page 94, the lack of any real information on the German defenses or plans renders most of what follows inexplicable. Since Hunt never explains what German forces were defending this supposedly key piece of terrain or their mission (delay? Hasty defense? Deliberate defense? Withdrawal?) it makes it very difficult to evaluate the British attack.<br />  The British 43rd (Wessex) Division was ordered by Montgomery on 5 August 1944 to seize Mont Pinçon - the highest piece of ground in Normandy.  The division was already exhausted by the first six days of fighting in Operation Bluecoat, and by the time it reached Mont Pinçon the forward combat units were probably at 50-70% strength (although the author makes little effort to clarify this).  The 129th Brigade from the 43rd Division, consisting of three depleted infantry battalions and one attached armor battalion (Sherman tanks), was tasked to conduct a frontal assault on Mont Pinçon, while another brigade provided a weak feint on the northern flank.  Hunt clearly put his main effort into narrating the difficult and costly British effort to breach the German defenses around Mont Pinçon (apparently mostly mines covered by machinegun positions, backed up by a few AT guns), and this is the only part of the volume that offers value.  It is clear from Hunt's description that the British army had still not learned some lessons and it is distressing to read about poorly-supported infantry attacks uphill in broad daylight against dug-in German positions.  The initial British attacks on Mont Pinçon were clumsy and unimaginative - the type made by tired commanders in a hurry - and were accordingly repulsed.<br /> Based upon what Hunt tells us, Mont Pinçon should have been a defensive success for the Germans, despite their own heavy losses.  However, for reasons never explained here, at a crucial moment the German defense fumbled their clear lead.  After the main British attack had been stopped, a column of seven British tanks boldly moved up a rough trail discovered on the mountain.  The British tanks advanced without infantry support (they did use smoke) and normally an attack like this would quickly fall prey to German AT gunners. Fortunately, the smoke and dust from the earlier fighting obscured the British tank penetration and the Germans were unaware for some time that these tanks had made it to the crest of the hill.  The tanks quickly called for their infantry to climb up the hill, although only a few companies reached the crest that night.  The Germans compounded their mistake by not counterattacking immediately and once they did, it was too little and too late.  The British had seized the highest mountain in Normandy after less than 48 hours fighting and at the cost of a few hundred casualties - not much compared to earlier fighting around Hill 112.<br /><br />  Hunt's lack of insight into the German defense or the British tactical orders make it difficult to evaluate the fighting on Mont Pinçon based on this account.  It does appear that the British commanders sent inadequate forces to seize a piece of terrain regarded as &quot;key&quot; and that they fumbled the initial attacks.  However, British mistakes appear to have been retrieved by German mistakes and the fog of war.  Therefore, Hunt's volume could be considered a stumbling effort to depict how fatigue and confusion can lead to unexpected outcomes on the battlefield.ned here, at a crucial moment the German defense fumbled their clear lead.  After the main British attack had been stopped, a column of seven British tanks boldly moved up a rough trail discovered on the mountain.  The British tanks advanced without infantry support (they did use smoke) and normally an attack like this would quickly fall prey to German AT gunners. Fortunately, the smoke and dust from the earlier fighting obscured the British tank penetration and the Germans were unaware for some time that these tanks had made it to the crest of the hill.  The tanks quickly called for their infantry to climb up the hill, although only a few companies reached the crest that night.  The Germans compounded their mistake by not counterattacking immediately and once they did, it was too little and too late.  The British had seized the highest mountain in Normandy after less than 48 hours fighting and at the cost of a few hundred casualties - not much compared to earlier fighting around Hill 112.  <BR> <br />         Hunt's lack of insight into the German defense or the British tactical orders make it difficult to evaluate the fighting on Mont Pinçon based on this account.  It does appear that the British commanders sent inadequate forces to seize a piece of terrain regarded as &quot;key&quot; and that they fumbled the initial attacks.  However, British mistakes appear to have been retrieved by German mistakes and the fog of war.  Therefore, Hunt's volume could be considered a stumbling effort to depict how fatigue and confusion can lead to unexpected outcomes on the battlefield.	2004-05-22
676835:US	52533596	R1TZ8XY19QVH4D	1841765643	700190805	US Armored Divisions: The European Theater of Operations, 1944–45 (Battle Orders)	Books	4	32	32	N	Y	Good, but some bumps in the new format	The third volume in Osprey's new Battle Order series, US Armored Divisions: The European Theater of Operations 1944-1945, is quite good but demonstrates that the format has not yet reached maturity.  As usual, Stephen J. Zaloga's narrative is excellent, rich with technical detail and insight; this is an excellent summary of an important but often neglected subject.  However, the maps, mission descriptions and unit orders of battle - the heart of this new series - are not always what they should be given the vast amount of data available on the subject.<br /> US Armored Divisions starts with a discussion of the combat mission of these formations; unlike British armored divisions, US armored divisions were not designed to defeat enemy armor but to exploit breakthroughs made by infantry divisions.  This is an important distinction and goes a long way toward explaining why the U.S. relied on the mass-produced Sherman tank instead of investing earlier in heavy tanks to defeat German armor.  Zaloga spends seven pages discussing doctrine and training in the period 1941-1943; the most important development was the introduction of combat commands in 1942, which Zaloga notes &quot;was an important step away from viewing the division as a tank formation, and seeing it as a combined arms formation.&quot;  The heart of the volume is the 28 pages that Zaloga spends on unit organization, and there is a wealth of data herein.  In addition to very detailed TO&amp;E charts, numerous line and block charts, and graphical depictions, Zaloga describes each type of sub-unit (armored battalions, artillery battalions, etc) within the division.  Zaloga also provides charts listing medium tank strength, Pershing tank strength and M-24 tank strength in each of the divisions on a monthly basis.  This statistical section alone is sufficient justification for readers interested in the US Army in the Second World War to purchase this volume.  Zaloga follows this section up with a short summary of C3I in the US armored divisions.<br /> The next major section, Tactics, discusses the operational and tactical employment of the US armored divisions in Northwest Europe in 1944-1945 (operations in Italy and virtually excluded).  Zaloga picks a variety of operations to analyze and uses a single map to illustrate each. The operations Zaloga picked to examine - based upon official post-war studies - are: offensive operations in the enemy rear (map: breakout and pursuit, July-August 1944); breakthrough (Remagen, March 1945); seizing key terrain (Paderborn, April 1945); regaining the initiative (Bastogne, January 1945); restoring the initiative (Ubach, October 1944); overcoming an unprepared defense (Saar-Palatinate, March 1945); attacks on a prepared position (Vianden Bulge, February 1945); attacks on enemy armored units (Arracourt, September 1944); counterattacks and delaying operations (Celles and St. Vith, December 1944).  There are also three maps depicting small-unit actions at Muhlhausen and Singling.  This section is interesting but problematic.  First, unlike most Osprey tactical maps, these maps have no numbered legends depicting sequence of events and the light-tone colors used makes it difficult to distinguish between US and German symbology.  Many of the maps are far too busy, depicting a swirl of arrows and phase lines, and often lacking in much information about the enemy.  The choice of missions is also overly broad, with little attention to difficult missions like fighting with armor in urban areas (Aachen), river crossing (the Rhine), forests (the Huertgen, Ardennes) or bocage country.  Operational logistics - particularly the impact of the fuel crunch in the fall of 1944 - are virtually ignored.  Readers should also be cognizant that Zaloga does not attempt to summarize all US armored operations in Europe in 1944-1945, merely operations he deems representative.  Although Zaloga mentions the 65 non-divisional tank battalions - more than half the US armored force - these battalions serving in the infantry divisions get little more than a nod.<br /> The final section of the volume is a quick thumbnail description of the US Armored Divisions, listing commanding officers, assignments to higher headquarters, and organic units, along with a short synopsis of division history.  Readers should note that the 1st Armored Division is the only division not listed because it served in Italy.  Habitual attachments, like the 814th Tank Destroyer Battalion - which spent the entire period of August 1944-May 1945 attached to the 7th Armored Division, are not listed.  On the other hand, Zaloga provides an excellent statistical chart that lists the personnel losses and tank losses for each division.  The bibliography consists mostly of divisional histories which Zaloga admits are often rather superficial, but no reference to the Official US Army history.  Overall, this volume is a colorful supplement to standard references like Shelby L. Stanton's authoritative Order of Battle U.S. Army World War II, but it lacks the depth to stand entirely on its own merit.armored force - these battalions serving in the infantry divisions get little more than a nod.  <br /> The final section of the volume is a quick thumbnail description of the US Armored Divisions, listing commanding officers, assignments to higher headquarters, and organic units, along with a short synopsis of division history.  Readers should note that the 1st Armored Division is the only division not listed because it served in Italy.  Habitual attachments, like the 814th Tank Destroyer Battalion - which spent the entire period of August 1944-May 1945 attached to the 7th Armored Division, are not listed.  On the other hand, Zaloga provides an excellent statistical chart that lists the personnel losses and tank losses for each division.  The bibliography consists mostly of divisional histories which Zaloga admits are often rather superficial, but no reference to the Official US Army history.  Overall, this volume is a colorful supplement to standard references like Shelby L. Stanton's authoritative Order of Battle U.S. Army World War II, but it lacks the depth to stand entirely on its own merit.	2004-05-07
682903:US	52533596	R2RHI9NMILI7GL	184176521X	439039394	Essential Histories 59: The Plains Wars 1757-1900	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Not a Comprehensive Survey	In Osprey's The Plains Wars 1757-1900, Charles M. Robinson III, a history teacher at a Texas community college, attempts to provide a broad survey of the Indian Wars fought on the American plains in the 18th and 19th Centuries.  Unfortunately, Robinson's account is written with too much of a Texas bias and too narrow a geographic focus.  Robinson's narrative - while sometimes interesting - is undermined by conceptual errors and lack of data.  The Plains War includes seven maps: Texas, the South Plains (1874 Red River War); the North plains; 1869 Battle of Washita; 1876 Battle of Rosebud; Red River War (again - confusing); 1876 Little Bighorn (a copy of the map from the campaign volume).  There is also an appendix with a list of Principal Indian characters.<br /> After a short introduction that clearly states that the bulk of the volume will focus on the Red River War of 1874-1875 and the Great Sioux War of 1876-1877, a 6-page &quot;background to war section&quot; that reverts to the period of Spanish settlement in Texas in the mid-17th Century.  In this section, Robinson begins a conceptual error - driven by Texas lore - that attempts to link the late 19th Century Plains Wars with early 18th Century Spanish colonization, with not a word given to what occurred east of the Mississippi.  Robinson also demonstrates a tendency to exaggerate the historical significance of minor incidents; for example, he describes the 1758 &quot;massacre&quot; at the San Saba mission in Texas (10 Spanish killed) as &quot;disaster&quot; that stopped Spanish expansion onto plains and started &quot;full-scale warfare between Indians and whites on the Southern Plains.&quot; Even though the first Americans didn't show up in Texas until 1821 and the Spanish never committed more than a few hundred troops to defend Texas, Robinson sees this as a continuous, full-scale war. Later, Robinson describes the 1836 Indian raid on Parker's Fort as &quot;one of the worst raids&quot; in Texas history - five Texans killed, five captured (four ransomed). These were actually small raids in comparison to what occurred in other areas of the country, and certainly not loaded with great historical import.<br /> Robinson's underlying thesis, presented in the main campaign narrative, is that the Plains Wars were &quot;handed down through the generations&quot; and that &quot;the conflict between those tribes [from the Great Plains] lasted about 150 years and required the resources of five nations - Spain, Mexico, the Republic of Texas, the Confederate States of America and the United States - before fighting ended in the mid-1890s.&quot;  However, no serious threat was posed to the Plains tribes before the Lewis &amp; Clark expedition and pressure only really began to build in the mid-19th Century.  While Indian warfare had been a constant in American life since the 17th Century - never alluded to by Robinson - the actual period of sustained warfare against the Plains tribes was only half of the 150 year period he claims.  Indeed, the independence of the Plains tribes was smashed in a few decades and with less than 10% of the effort needed to subdue the Confederacy. Despite Robinson's thesis, Spain and Mexico never put serious demographic pressure on the Plains tribes and indeed it was the paucity of Spanish settlers in the region that encouraged Americans to migrate into Texas.  The Republic of Texas and CSA were on the defensive against the Plains Indians, and neither was made a major push to expand westward.  Only the USA made a major effort to expand into the Great Plains, and it was the only power to offer a major threat to Plains tribes.  All the major battles on the Plains were fought between American soldiers and Indians.  If warfare was &quot;handed down,&quot; it owed more to the tradition of Fallen Timbers and the Seminole Wars than it did to obscure Spanish missionaries.<br /> Another problem that plagues this volume is a lack of reliable data.  Despite a 4-page bibliography, Robinson fails to provide basic statistics like: how many Plains Indians were there in this period (only about 300,000 by 1850 versus 23 million Americans)? How large was the U.S. Army commitment in the region (about 7,000 prior to the Civil War and about 15,000 afterwards)? How many casualties were incurred by both sides in the Plains Wars (about 2,000 military versus 6,000 Indians in 1865-1890)? Robinson does not even list casualties from major battles like the Rosebud or Little Bighorn.  Furthermore, Robinson tends to treat all Plains Indian tribes as more or less the same, which ignores differences in methods and temperament.  Robinson also chooses to exclude the Nez Perc&eacute; War and the Arizona Apaches simply because they do not fall within &quot;the Plains&quot; - this is a major disservice to the reader since these campaigns were very relevant to the Plains Wars.  Overall, the volume fails to provide an adequate summary of the military conflict that resulted in the 19th Century from Indian resistance to westward expansion.ge bibliography, Robinson fails to provide basic statistics like: how many Plains Indians were there in this period (only about 300,000 by 1850 versus 23 million Americans)? How large was the U.S. Army commitment in the region (about 7,000 prior to the Civil War and about 15,000 afterwards)? How many casualties were incurred by both sides in the Plains Wars (about 2,000 military versus 6,000 Indians in 1865-1890)? Robinson does not even list casualties from major battles like the Rosebud or Little Bighorn.  Furthermore, Robinson tends to treat all Plains Indian tribes as more or less the same, which ignores differences in methods and temperament.  Robinson also chooses to exclude the Nez Percé War and the Arizona Apaches simply because they do not fall within &quot;the Plains&quot; - this is a major disservice to the reader since these campaigns were very relevant to the Plains Wars.  Overall, the volume fails to provide an adequate summary of the military conflict that resulted in the 19th Century from Indian resistance to westward expansion.	2004-05-03
687241:US	52533596	R22BDBIIZPS1JD	184176678X	478023666	Germany's West Wall: The Siegfried Line (Fortress)	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Hitler's Biggest Mistake?	Neil Short's Germany's West Wall, Osprey's Fortress series # 15, is actually a better study of Germany's western defenses than his full-length volume on the same subject.  Unlike his earlier work, Short's volume for Osprey provides better graphic detail on the layout of German bunkers and more data on resources used in construction.  Overall, the graphic quality of this volume makes this the best low-cost study available on the subject.<br /> Germany's West Wall consists of sections on design and development (11 pages, good); principles of defense (13 pages, adequate); the living site (discussion of construction and habitation); an operational history summary (11 pages); and an aftermath section that includes notes on useful websites and visiting the remaining West Wall structures.  There are two maps - the layout of the West Wall defenses and the French 1939 Saar offensive - which are merely color versions of maps in his earlier book.  There are seven color plates which depict: a typical bunker under construction; typical bunkers of the Limes and Aachen-Saar programs; a birds-eye view of the defensive system; the Gerstfeldhohe Tunnel System; American techniques for assaulting the West Wall; and the Katzenkopf B Werke.  There is also a chart depicting manpower involved in building the wall during 1938-1940.<br /> As in his larger work, Short sees the West Wall as a qualified success, but the lack of a French offensive strategy in 1939 or Allied logistic sustainability in 1944 seem to undermine that conclusion.  The color plates provided in this volume provide a better picture of the strength (or lack of) in the West Wall defenses and it is apparent that the system lacked sufficient firepower or numbers to provide an effective linear defense in depth of the German border.  Indeed, the West wall was amazingly poorly armed, with few bunkers mounting any weapon heavier than a 50mm anti-tank gun (the bunkers before the war could not mount the larger, more effective 75mm or 88mm guns).  The typical bunker built in the 1938 Limes Program - the \\"Regelbau 10\\" - provided shelter for a rifle squad and its light machinegun but cost at least 42,000 RM to build - about one-third the cost of a tank.  While the Germans were able to supplement the lightly armed West Wall in 1944 with heavier weapons dug in adjacent hasty fighting positions, it appears that the West Wall was based around light infantry weapons, not heavy or long-range weapons.  Lacking mobile reserves or heavy weapons, in most cases defenders in the West Wall had to wait for the Allies to approach to virtually point-blank range of less than 1,000 meters.<br /> With the information provided by Neil Short in this volume and his earlier work, it is possible to deduce from the data provided that construction of the West Wall was a huge drain on Germany's resources.  Between 1936-1940, about 17,000 bunkers and other structures were built for a cost of somewhere between 900 million and 1.5 billion RM ($360-600 million) - which compares rather poorly with the French Maginot Line built in 1928-1936, which cost about $100 million.  The project required over 150,000 workers and huge quantities of steel, gravel, sand and timber; the German transportation network was severely strained to move over 9 million tons of material to construct the West Wall.  At a time when Germany was desperately short of steel for tanks and battleships, Hitler was investing thousands of tons of steel reinforcing rods into the West Wall's static \\"Dragons Teeth\\".  Approximately 9% of the German military budget in 1938-1939 was spent on West Wall construction, versus the 1.3% of the French defense budget spent on the Maginot Line.  Upon close analysis, the West Wall appears to have been a huge \\"White Elephant\\" of dubious value.  If Hitler had invested the resources lavished on static fortifications on mobile forces instead, he could have started the Second World War in a much more powerful position; funds and materials from the West Wall project would have been sufficient to build about nine more panzer divisions and upgrade the existing ones with more Pz IIIs and Pz IVs; the Luftwaffe could have created an additional air fleet; the Kriegsmarine could have built several additional pocket battleships and two dozen more large U-Boats.  Indeed, the case could be made that the resources squandered on the West Wall was one of Hitler's bigger strategic mistakes and helped to lose the war from the start.materials from the West Wall project would have been sufficient to build about nine more panzer divisions and upgrade the existing ones with more Pz IIIs and Pz IVs; the Luftwaffe could have created an additional air fleet; the Kriegsmarine could have built several additional pocket battleships and two dozen more large U-Boats.  Indeed, the case could be made that the resources squandered on the West Wall was one of Hitler's bigger strategic mistakes and helped to lose the war from the start.	2004-04-29
694995:US	52533596	ROVXT8MS7D8SX	1841766550	140223078	Arab MiG-19 & MiG-21 Units in Combat (Combat Aircraft)	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Flies into Virgin Territory	Since there is very little material available in English on the role of Arab air forces in the series of wars fought in the Mideast between 1967-1991, Osprey's &quot;Arab MiG-19 and MiG-21 Units in Combat&quot; flies into virtually virgin territory.  The strength of this volume is a wealth of specific detail on Arab pilots, units and combat actions that has been absent in most other works on the subject; anyone seriously interested in understanding the Mideast wars fought in this period needs this volume (and presumably the other volumes to follow in this series) to gain insight to the air component of those conflicts. David Nicolle and Tom Cooper have used their Mideast contacts to shed light on a heretofore-obscure subject.<br /> The first chapter, &quot;The Arabs go Supersonic,&quot; covers the introduction of the Mig-19 and MiG-21 fighters into Arab (Egyptian, Syrian, Iraqi) service in 1961-1966.  While background on the early Arab MiGs is fairly short, it seems that the USSR dumped several hundred MiG fighters on the Arab air forces without providing all the necessary equipment or training to transform these aircraft into fully-functional combat assets (also beginning the Arab tendency to blame the Soviets for their own military short-comings).  While the MiG-21 seemed like a major step forward for the Arab air forces, the authors note that &quot;prior to the Six Day War, Egyptian MiG-21FLs did not have guns....the MiG-21FLs actually came to be seen as a disaster..&quot; for the Egyptian Arab Force.  Consequently, the early MiG-21s were armed with only two unreliable &quot;Atoll&quot; missiles, which put them at a disadvantage against the better-armed Israeli fighters.  This introductory section also covers the 1967 Six Day War (the section is clearly from the Arab point of view, with no references to Nasser's numerous provocative acts that caused the war), in which the Egyptian and Syrian MiGs were mostly destroyed on the ground by some of the best-coordinated attacks in aviation history.  The authors point out that the lack of Egyptian combat air patrols on the morning of 5 June 1967 remains a mystery, given the high level of tensions.  In any event, only about 10-15% of the Egyptian MiGs survived the first strike, and readers will be interested to see that some Arab fighters did indeed get airborne.  After a week of fighting, the Arabs had lost most of their MiGs while claiming about ten Israeli aircraft in air-air combat (about 6 by Egypt and 2 each by Syria and Iraq).<br /> The second chapter, &quot;Fighting Back,&quot; covers the War of Attrition in 1968-1970.  This was a rough period for both the Arabs and Israelis, with frequent small-scale raids and clashes inflicting considerable loss on both sides.  While the Soviets replaced the MiGs lost in the Six Day War, the models delivered were essentially the same as those exported before the war.  This section is interesting because it details that the Arabs were able to start developing both the skills and the tactics to challenge Israeli air superiority at least some of the time.  Egyptian MiG pilots like Samir Aziz Mikhail, Ahmad Nur el-Din and Ahmed Atef were able to score 2-3 victories each, thereby providing the Egyptian Air Force with a small nucleus of skilled veterans.  A unique tactic developed by Egyptians was to ferry MiG-21s by night underneath Mi-6 heavy-lift helicopters to remote airstrips near the Suez Canal, then to ambush returning Israeli strike aircraft who were unaware of the deployment.  Syria was also able to develop a small cadre of skilled veterans, including Captain Bassam Hamshu, who became the highest scoring Arab fighter pilot with seven 'kills' before he himself was shot down in 1982.  In this period the Arab air forces were able to triple the number of trained jet pilots, but their technical edge slipped even further as the Israelis began to introduce better US-made aircraft like the F-4 &quot;Phantom.&quot;<br /> The third chapter coversthe 1973 War. This is perhaps the best chapter in the volume, with a great many combat anecdotes on dogfights and bombing missions.  The final two chapters cover the 1977 Egyptian-Libyan border war, the Israeli-Syrian fighting over Lebanon, the Iran-Iraq War and Desert Storm - all of which are quite interesting.  Obviously, the MiG-21 fighter designed in the late 1950s performed more and more poorly in each succeeding war as it started going up against F-14s, F-15s and F-16s.  The Soviets denied the Arabs improved MiGs and missiles until the 1980s, and never again provided the quantities to make a difference.  The authors also provide an appendix on Arab air units (thank you!) and 16 pages of color plates.  Unfortunately, there is no bibliography, no technical data on the MiGs, no summaries of Arab aerial victories claimed in any of the conflicts and no information provided on sources (just where did they get some of this info?).  It is also apparent that the authors had to incorporate a certain amount of &quot;Arab propaganda&quot; into this volume (e.g. tired accusations that American &quot;volunteer pilots&quot; were actually flying Israeli aircraft - can't the Arabs ever accept that they have been bested by Israelis?) in order to gain access to these secretive organizations.  It is not always clear if the authors have carefully scrutinized all aerial claims (notoriously exaggerated by pilots from all nations) or just accepted them at face value. Obviously, what is needed is an appendix that lists Arab claims day-by-day and an appendix that lists Israeli admitted losses day-by-day.  Finally, there is essentially no attempt to &quot;tie it all together&quot; and produce a comprehensive picture of Arab air operations; rather, this volume mostly consists of interesting but unconnected fighter pilot yarns.rs the 1973 War. This is perhaps the best chapter in the volume, with a great many combat anecdotes on dogfights and bombing missions.  The final two chapters cover the 1977 Egyptian-Libyan border war, the Israeli-Syrian fighting over Lebanon, the Iran-Iraq War and Desert Storm - all of which are quite interesting.  Obviously, the MiG-21 fighter designed in the late 1950s performed more and more poorly in each succeeding war as it started going up against F-14s, F-15s and F-16s.  The Soviets denied the Arabs improved MiGs and missiles until the 1980s, and never again provided the quantities to make a difference.  The authors also provide an appendix on Arab air units (thank you!) and 16 pages of color plates.  Unfortunately, there is no bibliography, no technical data on the MiGs, no summaries of Arab aerial victories claimed in any of the conflicts and no information provided on sources (just where did they get some of this info?).  It is also apparent that the authors had to incorporate a certain amount of &quot;Arab propaganda&quot; into this volume (e.g. tired accusations that American &quot;volunteer pilots&quot; were actually flying Israeli aircraft - can't the Arabs ever accept that they have been bested by Israelis?) in order to gain access to these secretive organizations.  It is not always clear if the authors have carefully scrutinized all aerial claims (notoriously exaggerated by pilots from all nations) or just accepted them at face value. Obviously, what is needed is an appendix that lists Arab claims day-by-day and an appendix that lists Israeli admitted losses day-by-day.  Finally, there is essentially no attempt to &quot;tie it all together&quot; and produce a comprehensive picture of Arab air operations; rather, this volume mostly consists of interesting but unconnected fighter pilot yarns.	2004-04-23
695482:US	52533596	R23UX0S45VWEH6	0750927623	35681850	Hitler's Siegfried Line (Fortress Europe)	Books	3	9	9	N	Y	A General History (In Disguise)	Neil Short's Hitler's Siegfried Line is a useful general history of the German West Wall defenses in the Second World War, but it is far more of a general history than a technical study.  Readers seeking answers to the historical significance of the West Wall will find this volume satisfactory, but serious professionals interested in the exact composition and disposition of the West Wall defenses will put down this volume empty-handed. At times it also appears that the author's heart was not in this task, as he readily admits in the introduction that the publisher pushed him into writing on a subject that he had not specifically researched - honest, but an inauspicious start.<br /> Hitler's Siegfried Wall consists of six chapters, with the first covering the genesis of the wall in 1919-1939, four on the wartime history of the wall, and a final chapter that covers post-war demolition of the wall.  The author provides six simple maps: the general layout of the defenses; the French 1939 Saar offensive; the Allied offensives of September 1944, October-November 1944, December 1944 and February-March 1945.  While the author provides a number of photographs to support the text, there are far too many shots of \\"Dragons Teeth\\" and far too few of actual bunkers.  The author's narrative is heavily oriented toward covering the operational history of the wall - much of it drawn from Charles MacDonald's excellent official history, The Siegfried Line Campaign.  However, the three main things lacking in this volume are comprehensiveness, technical detail and analysis.<br /> The Germans built the West Wall in five phases: two defensive belts were built around Frankfurt and Stuttgart in 1934-1935; the Pioneer Program of 1936-1938; the Limes Program of 1938; the Aachen-Saar Program of 1938; and final improvements in 1939-1940.  The Luftwaffe also built an air defense belt behind the West Wall fortifications.  The author fails to provide a comprehensive history because he mentions the air defense belt, the Frankfurt-Stuttgart defenses and several large artillery batteries in the Black Forrest area, but then never discusses their composition or role.  Nor does the author make any great effort to distinguish the differences behind the various phases, beyond basics that the Pioneer Program produced fewer, but bigger bunkers than the subsequent phases.  Short even manages to miss the \\"A Werkes\\", which were to be very large forts in the West Wall; the \\"A Werke\\" begun near Istein was to have a garrison of 2,600 soldiers and mount 88mm and 170mm guns. There is also a paucity in technical detail; while the author provides basic data on the cost and concrete required to build certain bunkers, he provides no sketches on their appearance or discussion of their internal layout.  Nor does the author provide even a single sample of how the West Wall defenses actually appeared on a particular piece of terrain (e.g. distance between bunkers or defensive belts).<br /> The author does make an attempt at analysis, but it is restricted to the operational value of the West Wall.  As Neil Short sees it, the West Wall was primarily designed to deter a French attack while Germany seized Czechoslovakia and Poland; it was a gigantic bluff - and it succeeded.  Thanks to the Allied perception of the West Wall's strength, Hitler was able to leave only minimal forces in the west while he crushed Poland in 1939. However, Short sees the West Wall's actual combat value as somewhat less, since many positions were tactically unsound (no examples provided) and many of the bunkers were only lightly armed.  In 1944, Short believes that the West Wall did contribute to the \\"Miracle of the West\\" in slowing and stopping the Allied offensive near the German border, even though U.S. forces did penetrate the line fairly easily in several places.  Short's claim that the West Wall \\"inflicted terrible casualties on the Allies\\" is a bit much, since there were no cases where U.S. troops were repulsed with \\"terrible losses\\" due merely to stout West Wall defenses (the losses in the Huertgen Forrest being due more to difficult weather and terrain, combined with tactical mistakes).<br /> Any real analysis of a fortification system such as the West Wall should ask whether the resources devoted to such a task were justified.  Clearly, Short comes down on the side of a qualified \\"yes\\".  However, Short also notes that U.S. units that properly used combined arms tactics - like the 30th Infantry Division - were able to penetrate even well-defended sections of the West Wall without suffering excessive casualties. Short doesn't spend much time addressing the issue, but the vulnerability of fixed, linear defenses was apparent when Allied forces started to penetrate the West Wall in any depth, as many positions had to be abandoned once the Allies got behind them.  The fact that one of the strongest positions in the West Wall - the Katzenkopf - was captured without a fight should expose the inherent weakness in these type of defenses.  Short also misses a key point - that fixed defenses are intended merely to delay, not defeat an enemy attack and are therefore dependent upon mobile reserves to defeat enemy penetrations.  This raises the conundrum: when Germany had plenty of mobile units it didn't need the wall, and by the time it needed the wall, it lacked mobile units.  Hitler's West Wall was a strategic \\"white elephant\\" that did not justify its expense, but appeared successful due to French timidity in 1939 and Allied logistical shortfalls in 1944.e repulsed with \\"terrible losses\\" due merely to stout West Wall defenses (the losses in the Huertgen Forrest being due more to difficult weather and terrain, combined with tactical mistakes).  <br /> Any real analysis of a fortification system such as the West Wall should ask whether the resources devoted to such a task were justified.  Clearly, Short comes down on the side of a qualified \\"yes\\".  However, Short also notes that U.S. units that properly used combined arms tactics - like the 30th Infantry Division - were able to penetrate even well-defended sections of the West Wall without suffering excessive casualties. Short doesn't spend much time addressing the issue, but the vulnerability of fixed, linear defenses was apparent when Allied forces started to penetrate the West Wall in any depth, as many positions had to be abandoned once the Allies got behind them.  The fact that one of the strongest positions in the West Wall - the Katzenkopf - was captured without a fight should expose the inherent weakness in these type of defenses.  Short also misses a key point - that fixed defenses are intended merely to delay, not defeat an enemy attack and are therefore dependent upon mobile reserves to defeat enemy penetrations.  This raises the conundrum: when Germany had plenty of mobile units it didn't need the wall, and by the time it needed the wall, it lacked mobile units.  Hitler's West Wall was a strategic \\"white elephant\\" that did not justify its expense, but appeared successful due to French timidity in 1939 and Allied logistical shortfalls in 1944.	2004-04-23
719663:US	52533596	R3DXBQMUGMVZX9	0195170342	74776758	Washington's Crossing (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Excellent Narrative but Overly-Broad Conclusions	Until now, Richard M. Ketchum's The Winter Soldiers written in 1973, was probably one of the best accounts available of the dramatic campaign of Trenton and Princeton in 1776-1777.  However, Brandeis University Professor David Hackett Fischer's Washington's Crossing is clearly superior in the quality of its narrative and maps, as well as depth of supporting research.  Fischer's Washington's Crossing is in fact, the best campaign narrative now available on the subject.  Fischer's work is particularly valuable for the many new details he brings to this telling, such as the role of the Pennsylvania Navy on the Delaware River, the key role of American artillery in the campaign and the \\"Forage War\\" fought in New Jersey in the first three months of 1777.  However, Fischer attempts to use this campaign to present general theories about the American Revolution that are flimsy at best, as well as a attempt to challenge various historiographical versions of the campaign.<br /> Washington's Crossing consists of nineteen chapters that begin with the New York Campaign and end with the \\"Forage War\\" in 1777.  Fischer also provides nineteen excellent maps that effectively support the narrative, except for parts of the New York campaign.  Equally interesting are the author's 24 appendices, which range from orders of battle for New York, Trenton and Princeton, to casualty records, weather records on the Delaware River and notes on river fords.  Taken together, the author's documentation is superb.  As for the campaign narrative, Fischer writes well and is able to effectively paint the \\"dark period\\" that made these ten days so pivotal for American history. Yet while Fischer conclusively proves that the Hessians were not caught napping or drunk at Trenton, his assertion that they put up stiffer resistance than most accounts suggest lacks analysis. Despite two Hessian counterattacks with artillery support, Colonel Rall's 1,000 troops and six cannon were unable to kill a single American soldier in about one hour of close-quarter combat; this was a pretty pathetic effort.  While Fischer paints the Hessian troops as exhausted after weeks of harassment, they were certainly better rested than the American troops who had just made a river crossing and forced march in severe weather.<br />  Fischer's rationale for including or excluding information is not always compelling; for example, he banishes John Honeyman - supposedly one of Washington's spies in New Jersey - to the footnotes.  Fischer acknowledges that many other historians have included Honeyman as an important figure in the events at Trenton, but he regards the evidence as flimsy and simply discounts it, even as he admits that there is little hard data available on Washington's spy system.  However, on even flimsier anecdotal evidence, Fischer suggests that an \\"unknown American woman\\" - and he suggests Betsy Ross - helped to delay Hessians at Mount Holly by entertaining the brigade commander.  Fischer also includes an unsubstantiated Hessian account that they were bombarded from the Pennsylvania side of the Delaware by seven American batteries during Washington's attack on Trenton, despite the lack of any American sources on this incident. Why are these batteries not listed in the order of battle? Furthermore, how could American cannon engage targets across a 700-meter wide river when Fischer admits that visibility was down to perhaps 500 meters due to the snowstorm?<br />  The author also annoyingly tries to score political correctness points by sprinkling cameo appearances by blacks and women in the campaign narrative, but the significance (if any) of their actions often appears strained.  For example, Fischer notes the close bond that George Washington had with his slave, William Lee, but how is this significant to the Trenton campaign?  The author also notes that a number of slave revolts broke out in New Jersey in the winter of 1776, with groups such as the \\"Black Pioneers\\" active, but sowhat? Women such as Margaret Morris appear frequently in the text because she kept a diary, but would the campaign narrative suffer if she had been omitted?<br />  Fischer also attempts to draw dangerous general conclusions from a ten-day campaign.  First, he asserts that the \\"British and German forces remained rigid and hierarchical, Americans evolved an open and flexible system that was fundamental to their success,\\" for which he presents the American victories at Trenton and Princeton as proof. Yet why, when a British brigade surprised and routed a good quality American brigade under Anthony Wayne at Paoli nine months later, did this not indicate the opposite?  Indeed, British forces were able to outmaneuver Washington himself at Germantown, and Gates at Camden, so the idea that the Trenton campaign gave American forces an intrinsic tactical edge is silly.  Fischer's second broad assertion is that Americans developed a higher ethical standard in warfare that was demonstrated by Washington's humane treatment of German and British prisoners in the Trenton campaign.  However, the treatment of the much larger number of Anglo-German prisoners after Saratoga was much less humane and it would be premature to assert that a \\"policy of humanity\\" was in effect when in fact, Trenton represented the first large haul of enemy prisoners.<br />  While Washington's victories at Trenton and Princeton were \\"pivotal moments in American history\\" as Fischer concludes these victories were not decisive militarily or politically.  In fact, the decisive victory would come ten months later at Saratoga.  Fischer's assessment that British commanders came to see the war as lost after Trenton is specious; Howe easily brushed aside Washington's army in 1777 and seized Philadelphia. (...).  Indeed, the American financial situation seriously deteriorated as the war dragged on and as late as 1780 - over three years after Trenton - the British were still able to inflict crushing defeats on the Americans at Charleston and Camden.eers\\" active, but so what? Women such as Margaret Morris appear frequently in the text because she kept a diary, but would the campaign narrative suffer if she had been omitted?  <br />        Fischer also attempts to draw dangerous general conclusions from a ten-day campaign.  First, he asserts that the \\"British and German forces remained rigid and hierarchical, Americans evolved an open and flexible system that was fundamental to their success,\\" for which he presents the American victories at Trenton and Princeton as proof. Yet why, when a British brigade surprised and routed a good quality American brigade under Anthony Wayne at Paoli nine months later, did this not indicate the opposite?  Indeed, British forces were able to outmaneuver Washington himself at Germantown, and Gates at Camden, so the idea that the Trenton campaign gave American forces an intrinsic tactical edge is silly.  Fischer's second broad assertion is that Americans developed a higher ethical standard in warfare that was demonstrated by Washington's humane treatment of German and British prisoners in the Trenton campaign.  However, the treatment of the much larger number of Anglo-German prisoners after Saratoga was much less humane and it would be premature to assert that a \\"policy of humanity\\" was in effect when in fact, Trenton represented the first large haul of enemy prisoners.     <br />          While Washington's victories at Trenton and Princeton were \\"pivotal moments in American history\\" as Fischer concludes these victories were not decisive militarily or politically.  In fact, the decisive victory would come ten months later at Saratoga.  Fischer's assessment that British commanders came to see the war as lost after Trenton is specious; Howe easily brushed aside Washington's army in 1777 and seized Philadelphia. (...).  Indeed, the American financial situation seriously deteriorated as the war dragged on and as late as 1780 - over three years after Trenton - the British were still able to inflict crushing defeats on the Americans at Charleston and Camden.	2004-04-04
732682:US	52533596	R2X4J5BWAEK6ZM	184176518X	730772733	US Marine Corps Pacific Theater of Operations 1941–43 (Battle Orders)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Excellent source, but like reading an Encyclopedia	US Marine Corps Pacific Theater of Operations 1941-43 is the first of three volumes in Osprey's new Battle Orders series, which seeks to describe &quot;command, deployment, organization and evolution of forces in battle...including doctrine, training, tactics and equipment.&quot;  Rottman's first volume covers the period from Pearl Harbor to the landing on Bougainville in November 1943.  Overall, this volume is an extremely usefully research tool packed with graphically appealing data, but the narrative is too sterile and does not read well. This lack of readability appears to be due to the series format, and readers expecting something akin to the Campaign or Essential Histories series will find these volumes difficult to digest.<br /> Despite the stylistic problems, US Marine Corps Pacific Theater of Operations 1941-43 gets off to a good start with sections that clearly define the four combat missions of the US Marine Corps, its doctrine and training, and unit organization.  The 18-page organization section is particularly detailed, with numerous line and block charts of units from Amphibious Corps down to platoon.  The 8-page section on tactics is also very detailed.  A 7-page section on weapons and equipment and a 6-page section on C3I are also decent.  The final section of the book is a 31-page summary of Marine combat operations in the Pacific in the first two years of the war (Corregidor, Guadalcanal, Russells and New Georgia, and Bougainville).  While this summary section has a dozen tactical maps, it does not provide anything like the narrative provided in a Campaign title.  Detailed orders of battle are provided for each operation - too detailed in fact, with names of each battalion commander taking 2-3 pages for major operations.  A brief summary section at the end lists all USMC casualties in these operations.  My only concern is that there is too little information on the Marine commanders, particularly notables like Vandegrift who was a major figure in these early operations.<br /> Once these three volumes are available, readers will have a great reference tool available on USMC operations in the Pacific Theater.  Those readers who require very detailed order of battle information will particularly enjoy these volumes, but readers expecting more of a campaign-style history will find this material too encyclopedic.  Ideally, readers will rely on earlier Osprey Campaign series titles on the Pacific War to provide greater depth on operations and use these volumes to understand the organizations, doctrine and tactics.these early operations.<br /> Once these three volumes are available, readers will have a great reference tool available on USMC operations in the Pacific Theater.  Those readers who require very detailed order of battle information will particularly enjoy these volumes, but readers expecting more of a campaign-style history will find this material too encyclopedic.  Ideally, readers will rely on earlier Osprey Campaign series titles on the Pacific War to provide greater depth on operations and use these volumes to understand the organizations, doctrine and tactics.	2004-03-25
732853:US	52533596	R2ES9ZTBFYD0U4	1841581216	346971290	DAY OF BATTLE: Mars-La-Tour	Books	5	30	31	N	Y	A Superb Tactical Account	A Day of Battle is an excellent tactical-level account of the Battle of Mars-la-Tour on 16 August 1870, which author David Ascoli claims not only decided the outcome of the Franco-Prussian War but the future of Europe.  For readers accustomed to operational-level accounts by Howard and Wawro that discuss the war in toto, Ascoli's narrative offers an interesting dissection of the conflict from the ground level.  However much of the author's narrative focuses on the odd behavior of the French commander who threw away potential victory at both Mars-la-Tour and Gravelotte-St. Privat: Marshal Bazaine.  Both battles were unusual in that a string of German mistakes and favorable terrain offered the French a real chance to inflict crushing defeats on the Germans, but in each case the opportunity was wasted.<br /> The first third of A Day of Battle Consists of the period leading up to Mars-la-Tour, including the outbreak of war, mobilization and the frontier battles.  After suffering several tactical defeats on the border against the invading German armies, Ascoli describes how the two main French armies - one under Marshal MacMahon and the other under Marshal Bazaine - were ordered to fall back toward Paris to regroup.  Marshal Bazaine's Army of the Rhine managed to elude the German pursuit and reach the fortified supply base at Metz, from whence he was supposed to continue the retreat to Verdun in order to link-up with MacMahon's army.  However, Bazaine delayed the march to Verdun for crucial hours, allowing the pursuing Germans to slip a corps-size blocking force around his flank and block the Metz-Verdun road.  The center third of Ascoli's book covers the resulting Battle of Mars-la-Tour that frustrated any chance for a French withdrawal, and the final third of the book covers the follow-up Battle of Gravelotte-St. Privat two days later.  The section on Mars-la-Tour is particularly detailed and includes sketch maps that depict the battle on a hour-by-hour basis, as well as numerous photographs of the terrain.  The author also provides a detailed order of battle for both sides, illustrations of all the key leaders, and an appendix on French logistics; this is first-rate military history writing.<br /> Ascoli views Bazaine as essentially incompetent and promoted beyond his ability, rather than the traditional views which ascribe either political self-interest or treason as his motives.  Bazaine had risen from private to Marshal in a brilliant career, but Ascoli portrays him as a man uncomfortable with high-level command, particularly with subordinates who were senior in time-in-grade.  Furthermore, Ascoli believes that Bazaine's obsession with the security provided him by the fortress of Metz dominated his thinking; instead of retiring on Verdun, Bazaine wanted to remain at Metz - even if surrounded - and await &quot;rescue&quot; by MacMahon's army.  If he had to fight, Bazaine would fight only defensively and invite the aggressive Germans to dash themselves to pieces on his impregnable positions.  While Ascoli's interpretation is interesting, it is not that convincing.  Bazaine had already been a general for a decade and had performed well in high command in Mexico.  Bazaine's numerous command failures in August 1870 - failure to put out reconnaissance, failure to provide adequate orders to subordinates, failure to commit his reserve, failure to even visit the front-line units, abandoning 5,000 of his wounded on the battlefield - are clear evidence of a gross dereliction of duty, not mere ineptitude.  Even a bad general, after ten years of command experience, has some idea how to issue orders or he could not function.  Bazaine's problem was more likely defeatism - which Ascoli notes that he voiced early in the campaign - and which caused him to mentally &quot;stack arms.&quot;  Bazaine just wanted to hunker down in Metz and keep his army intact, while doing as little as possible to tarnish his reputation.  Instead, he threw both reputation and army away.<br /> Ascoli's account is also very interesting in exposing German blunders, which are normally glossed over in standard campaign histories.  General von Moltke, the German Chief of Staff, is not the paragon of military virtue in these pages, but a general whose mistakes were redeemed by French ineptitude.  The &quot;brilliantly planned&quot; German envelopment that brought about the battle of Mars-la-Tour completely misjudged the location of the French army and exposed the German 2nd Army to piece-meal destruction.  The German III Corps, the first unit to bump into the French near Mars-la-Tour, quickly attacked the French main body; this was the only battle in the war where the French had a large numerical superiority.  Ascoli's hour-by-hour account of the German III Corps aggressive fight with Bazaine's much larger army is quite stirring and offers considerably more detail than those by Howard or Wawro.  However, it seems that the German III Corps could have accomplished its mission of blocking the road to Verdun without becoming decisively engaged - and suffering 30% losses - against a French army that sat virtually immobile for most of the battle.  Indeed, the Germans were over-aggressive and kept hurling units at the French, like Wedell's brigade which suffered 57% casualties in 30 minutes.  Ultimately, the Germans succeeded in cutting Bazaine's escape route although tactically the battle was close to a draw.<br /> The final section of the subsequent battle of Gravelotte-St. Privat is nearly as detailed and clearly highlights German mistakes and Bazaine's failure to snatch victory when it was offered.  In particular, the multiple idiotic frontal assaults by von Steinmetz across the Mance Ravine that costs thousands of German casualties and von Moltke's failure to reign in a dangerously insubordinate commander demonstrate that the German war machine was not so invincible in 1870.  The Germans could have been beaten, but not by this lot of French commanders who lacked any battlefield initiative.reputation and army away.  <br /> Ascoli's account is also very interesting in exposing German blunders, which are normally glossed over in standard campaign histories.  General von Moltke, the German Chief of Staff, is not the paragon of military virtue in these pages, but a general whose mistakes were redeemed by French ineptitude.  The &quot;brilliantly planned&quot; German envelopment that brought about the battle of Mars-la-Tour completely misjudged the location of the French army and exposed the German 2nd Army to piece-meal destruction.  The German III Corps, the first unit to bump into the French near Mars-la-Tour, quickly attacked the French main body; this was the only battle in the war where the French had a large numerical superiority.  Ascoli's hour-by-hour account of the German III Corps aggressive fight with Bazaine's much larger army is quite stirring and offers considerably more detail than those by Howard or Wawro.  However, it seems that the German III Corps could have accomplished its mission of blocking the road to Verdun without becoming decisively engaged - and suffering 30% losses - against a French army that sat virtually immobile for most of the battle.  Indeed, the Germans were over-aggressive and kept hurling units at the French, like Wedell's brigade which suffered 57% casualties in 30 minutes.  Ultimately, the Germans succeeded in cutting Bazaine's escape route although tactically the battle was close to a draw.   <br /> The final section of the subsequent battle of Gravelotte-St. Privat is nearly as detailed and clearly highlights German mistakes and Bazaine's failure to snatch victory when it was offered.  In particular, the multiple idiotic frontal assaults by von Steinmetz across the Mance Ravine that costs thousands of German casualties and von Moltke's failure to reign in a dangerously insubordinate commander demonstrate that the German war machine was not so invincible in 1870.  The Germans could have been beaten, but not by this lot of French commanders who lacked any battlefield initiative.	2004-03-25
758680:US	52533596	RAQGFEG21MF9D	1841765694	648217715	The Ottoman Empire 1326–1699 (Essential Histories)	Books	3	19	19	N	N	A Vivid Military Narrative	Stephen Turnbull's The Ottoman Empire 1326 - 1699, Osprey's Essential History volume #62, is a lively and well-written narrative of a critical and brutal phase of Medieval warfare.  Indeed, this volume is one of Turnbull's best efforts since his samurai efforts.  Turnbull succeeds in bringing three centuries of Ottoman conquests into sharp focus and he adds great drama to this historical survey.  However, Turnbull's otherwise fine effort is marred by two critical deficiencies: lack of sufficient maps to support the narrative and a neglect of Ottoman operations in North Africa and the Mideast.<br />  After a short introduction and chronology, Turnbull's The Ottoman Empire 1326 - 1699 briefly examines the rise of the Ottomans and the nature of the Ottoman army.  It is interesting to contrast modern armies in the Mideast with Turnbull's description of an Ottoman military system built on discipline, military efficiency and a willingness to adopt new technology and tactics.  The bulk of the 55-page campaign narrative focuses on Turkish advances into the Balkans, with only slight asides for other areas.  Turnbull also provides interesting sections on portrait of a soldier (a Serbian janissary), portrait of a civilian (a grand vizier), and a discussion of terror and toleration in the empire.  Turnbull's bibliography is a bit skimpy.  Certainly the weakest aspect of the volume is the limited number of maps; normally Osprey essential histories have ten maps but Turnbull provides only five and they are not particularly useful maps.  Readers will note that very few of the battles or sieges listed in the narrative are depicted in the maps.  The five maps include: the early Ottoman conquests (1291-1389); the major crusades to halt Ottoman expansion (1396/1444/1448); the expansion of the Ottoman Empire under Mehmet the Conqueror (1451-1481); the expansion of the Ottoman Empire from 1481 to 1683; and the Ottoman Eastern European Front in the 17th Century.<br />  Turnbull's descriptions of the Turkish advance into the Balkans is exciting and vivid, with excellent descriptions of the victory at Nicopolis (1396), the defeat at Ankara (1402), and more victories at Varna (1444) and Constantinople (1453).  One of the more interesting personalities that Turnbull highlights is Prince Vlad Dracula from Wallachia, who used terror and guerrilla warfare to contest the Ottoman advance into modern-day Romania.  Dracula's terror tactics actually succeeded in intimidated even the Turks - a rare occurrence - and deterring invasion in 1462, although Dracula was later killed by the Turks.  Turnbull also discusses the great Ottoman victory of Mohacs (1526) at length, and how this reinforced a tendency for land expansion.  Throughout the narrative, Turnbull downplays economic, social and political dynamics in the Ottoman Empire and he attributes Ottoman decline in the 17th Century to poor leadership, internal divisions, and the growing professionalism of European armies.<br />Readers should note that Turnbull virtually ignores the Ottoman wars with Persia, and their conquests in the Arabian peninsula and North Africa, which renders this account overly Euro-centric.<br />  What Turnbull presents in this volume is a dramatic and well-illustrated summarized account of the centuries-long struggle between the Ottomans and various European states for control of the Balkans and lower Eastern Europe.  However, this account is far from comprehensive in either geographic scope or thematic depth, and should not be used as introduction to Ottoman history for those readers requiring a broader canvas.ull's descriptions of the Turkish advance into the Balkans is exciting and vivid, with excellent descriptions of the victory at Nicopolis (1396), the defeat at Ankara (1402), and more victories at Varna (1444) and Constantinople (1453).  One of the more interesting personalities that Turnbull highlights is Prince Vlad Dracula from Wallachia, who used terror and guerrilla warfare to contest the Ottoman advance into modern-day Romania.  Dracula's terror tactics actually succeeded in intimidated even the Turks - a rare occurrence - and deterring invasion in 1462, although Dracula was later killed by the Turks.  Turnbull also discusses the great Ottoman victory of Mohacs (1526) at length, and how this reinforced a tendency for land expansion.  Throughout the narrative, Turnbull downplays economic, social and political dynamics in the Ottoman Empire and he attributes Ottoman decline in the 17th Century to poor leadership, internal divisions, and the growing professionalism of European armies.  <BR>Readers should note that Turnbull virtually ignores the Ottoman wars with Persia, and their conquests in the Arabian peninsula and North Africa, which renders this account overly Euro-centric.  <br />        What Turnbull presents in this volume is a dramatic and well-illustrated summarized account of the centuries-long struggle between the Ottomans and various European states for control of the Balkans and lower Eastern Europe.  However, this account is far from comprehensive in either geographic scope or thematic depth, and should not be used as introduction to Ottoman history for those readers requiring a broader canvas.	2004-03-05
776236:US	52533596	R2R7QEYZ9R6HOU	0521584361	671130378	The Franco-Prussian War: The German Conquest of France in 1870-1871	Books	4	118	136	N	Y	Don't Throw Howard's Book Out Just Yet	For the past four decades, the most comprehensive English-language history of the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-1871 has been Professor Michael Howard's book, first published in 1961.  Geoffrey Wawro, the U.S. Naval War college professor who in 1996 wrote an interesting revisionist history of the 1866 Austro-Prussian War, has now written a book to compete with Howard's classic.  In a nutshell, Wawro's book is quite good, but it complements rather than replaces Howard's book.<br /> Wawro's assessment of the opposing military systems is rather biased in favor of the conscription-based German armies over the smaller French regular army.  Wawro focuses on one problematic French regiment and uses it to categorize the entire French army as riddled with poor morale, incompetent leadership and lax discipline.  Indeed, Wawro equates alcohol consumption in the French army with unsoldierly behavior - what about the famous alcoholic general named Grant who took Vicksburg seven years before?  While Wawro frequently notes drunken German troops later in the campaign, somehow this did not represent German indiscipline.  Wawro also makes a big point about the superiority of German pre-war planning, but this is questionable on two accounts.  First, the French were hardly alone in lacking detailed contingency war plans in 1870 - few other nations had them either.  Second, Wawro admits the German operational plan - to encircle both French armies on the frontier - failed (MacMahon's army escaped to Chalons and while Bazaine's army was encircled, it was due to French lethargy, not the German plan).<br /> Wawro's two main theses about the war are continuations of earlier themes from his book on the Austro-Prussian War.  His first thesis - that incompetent French leadership was at the root of the defeat - equates General Bazaine's fumbling behavior at Metz with Austrian General Benedek's mistakes at K&ouml;niggr&auml;tz.  However, there are problems with this thesis.  Bazaine had demonstrated real battlefield competence in previous wars, while Benedek was more of a paper-pusher.  Bazaine's conduct indicates that political calculations - rather than incompetence - were at the root of the general's failure to act.  Furthermore, Bazaine was a mere corps commander in 1870, not commander-in-chief like Benedek, meaning that the Austrian commander was in a much better position to ensure readiness for war and sound operational planning than Bazaine.<br />  The author's second thesis is that French defeat was attributable to tactical defects, namely that French superiority in the chassepot rifle was trumped by superior German artillery; these technical disparities made the French troops more defensive-minded while the Germans were more aggressive.  It is unfortunate that Wawro does not delve deeper into the opposing infantry and artillery tactics.  Both the German and French infantry used large numbers of skirmishers, but the Germans were more inclined to conduct reckless frontal attacks.  Neither army had a doctrine for tactical withdrawals, which meant that retreats quickly turned into routs.  As for the artillery, the German Krupp breech-loaders were certainly more advanced than the French artillery, but the range advantage was smaller than Wawro suggests only (150 - 750 meters further), giving the German artillerymen a 5-27% advantage in range and 0-60% advantage in rate of fire.  German fuses were also better and the Germans pushed their artillery further forward, but none of this added up to a decisive advantage.  Wawro fails to note that post-war analysis revealed that only 8% of all casualties were caused by artillery fire, which seriously undermines his tactical thesis.<br />French defeat was primarily due to the haphazard military reforms enacted by Napoleon III.  While the emperor did push the chassepot and mitrailleuse, he allowed the legislature to veto funds for artillery modernization and he squandered millions on adventures like Mexico and his own personal embezzlements of public funds.  Napoleon III also over-spent on his navy to match English strength, but this fleet was virtually useless against threats from Prussia; a smaller French navy would have provided the manpower for another French corps as well as funds for artillery modernization.  The French logistic collapse - never mentioned by Wawro - was caused by lack of preparations for a mobile campaign, such as buying more horses.  Once the French army moved away from its supply depots it quickly became an unfed and short of ammunition - is it any wonder that morale deteriorated?  German logistics were equally close to collapse once they pushed deep into France, and this over-reliance on distant rail heads would come back to haunt Germany in future wars.<br />  Throughout the narrative, I was suspicious that Wawro was concealing facts that indicated French success or German failure. According to Wawro, the French naval blockade of Germany's coast accomplished nothing - he doesn't mention that they captured 80 German merchantmen in the first month of the war.  Wawro is reticent about German losses, such as failing to mention the 10,000 German casualties at Froeschwiller.  Later, Wawro omits critical details about the French counterattack to relieve Belfort in January 1871; he asserts that the French &quot;sat idly on the road ..[to] Belfort from 10-13 January.&quot;  In fact, Howard's account details the French victory at Villersexel on 9 January that led to a 5-mile advance toward Belfort in this period; why does Wawro ignore one of the few French tactical victories?<br /> The Franco-Prussian War can be viewed simplistically as a triumph of German aggressiveness and technical skill over French sloth - as Wawro does - or it could be viewed as an opportunistic event where one nation was better placed to exploit temporary advantages.  The French army of 1870 was far better than the outcome of the war indicated and indeed, this was probably the best French army the Germans ever fought.  In term of casualty ratios, the Germans inflicted 3.8 casualties for everyone of their own in the 1914 invasion of France, 2.5 to 1 in the 1940 campaign but only 0.7 to 1 in the 1870 invasion.  Had the French army in 1866 obtained the 13 million francs it needed for artillery modernization, is there any doubt that the results of the Franco-Prussian war would have been much different - Bazaine or no Bazaine?own personal embezzlements of public funds.  Napoleon III also over-spent on his navy to match English strength, but this fleet was virtually useless against threats from Prussia; a smaller French navy would have provided the manpower for another French corps as well as funds for artillery modernization.  The French logistic collapse - never mentioned by Wawro - was caused by lack of preparations for a mobile campaign, such as buying more horses.  Once the French army moved away from its supply depots it quickly became an unfed and short of ammunition - is it any wonder that morale deteriorated?  German logistics were equally close to collapse once they pushed deep into France, and this over-reliance on distant rail heads would come back to haunt Germany in future wars.  <br />        Throughout the narrative, I was suspicious that Wawro was concealing facts that indicated French success or German failure. According to Wawro, the French naval blockade of Germany's coast accomplished nothing - he doesn't mention that they captured 80 German merchantmen in the first month of the war.  Wawro is reticent about German losses, such as failing to mention the 10,000 German casualties at Froeschwiller.  Later, Wawro omits critical details about the French counterattack to relieve Belfort in January 1871; he asserts that the French &quot;sat idly on the road ..[to] Belfort from 10-13 January.&quot;  In fact, Howard's account details the French victory at Villersexel on 9 January that led to a 5-mile advance toward Belfort in this period; why does Wawro ignore one of the few French tactical victories?<br /> The Franco-Prussian War can be viewed simplistically as a triumph of German aggressiveness and technical skill over French sloth - as Wawro does - or it could be viewed as an opportunistic event where one nation was better placed to exploit temporary advantages.  The French army of 1870 was far better than the outcome of the war indicated and indeed, this was probably thebest French army the Germans ever fought.  In term of casualty ratios, the Germans inflicted 3.8 casualties for everyone of their own in the 1914 invasion of France, 2.5 to 1 in the 1940 campaign but only 0.7 to 1 in the 1870 invasion.  Had the French army in 1866 obtained the 13 million francs it needed for artillery modernization, is there any doubt that the results of the Franco-Prussian war would have been much different - Bazaine or no Bazaine?	2004-02-21
800425:US	52533596	RZA16KI46VPJ9	1841765686	584835891	American War of Independence Commanders (Elite)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Another Good Product by Chartrand	As usual, Ren&eacute; Chartrand provides excellent value in Osprey Elite #93, American War of Independence Commanders.  Chartrand outlines the career of 24 of the most significant ground and sea commanders on both sides, as well as including capsule biographies on another twenty-odd figures.  For readers seeking a short summary of commanders in the American Revolution, this volume is an excellent addition to the other Osprey volumes on the same subject.<br />  Chartrand provides color plates and short biographical sketches of 24 noteworthy commanders of the American War of Independence, including: 8 British (Burgoyne, Howe, Clinton, Carleton, Elliot, Rodney, Cornwallis, Tarleton) 11 Americans (Benedict Arnold, Gates, Knox, Sullivan, Clark, Lee, Greene, von Steuben, Lafayette, Lincoln and Washington), 4 French (Suffren, Marquis de Bouill&eacute;, Duke of Lauzun, Rochambeau) and 1 Spanish (Bernardo de Galvez).  Each of the color plates and sketches provides a decent overview of the individual commander, with Chartrand providing comments that assess their character and leadership abilities, as well as their accomplishments.  A large number of other officers from both sides are also mentioned in more summary fashion, with an illustration and a short biographical caption (including Kosciuszko, Pulaski, Ethan Allen, Wooster, Montgomery, Schuyler, Daniel Morgan, Varnum, Francis Marion, Anthony Wayne, Moultrie, John Paul Jones, Gage, Richard Howe, Simon Fraser, Hood, d'Estaing, and the Comte de Grasse).  Unfortunately, Chartrand entirely forgot the German contribution on the British side, and should have included mention of at least the three most significant German generals:  the Baron von Riedesel, Baron von Knyphausen, and Leopold von Heister.  A number of other significant officers of general rank (the French engineer Duportail who was made a Major General in the American army and played a major role in several campaigns, including Yorktown; the American Major General Stirling; and the British General Charles &quot;No Flint&quot; Grey) and several others of lesser rank who played significant roles (e.g. &quot;Light Horse Harry&quot; Lee as a counterpoise to Tarleton) should probably also have been mentioned, but were not.  Note that unlike other Osprey volumes on commanders, Chartrand - thankfully - does not waste space summarizing the major operations of the war but concentrates entirely on the biographical sketches.; and the British General Charles &quot;No Flint&quot; Grey) and several others of lesser rank who played significant roles (e.g. &quot;Light Horse Harry&quot; Lee as a counterpoise to Tarleton) should probably also have been mentioned, but were not.  Note that unlike other Osprey volumes on commanders, Chartrand - thankfully - does not waste space summarizing the major operations of the war but concentrates entirely on the biographical sketches.	2004-02-03
802561:US	52533596	R3UQJG81VKQI6J	1841765589	289466006	Elite 97: The Kaiser's Warlords	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Good but Doesn't Go Much Beyond Surface Detail	Ronald Pawly, normally a Napoleonic historian, turns his attention to German military commanders in the First World War in Osprey's Elite #97.  This volume is a useful summary for readers interested in the First World War and supplements other Osprey volumes on that war in the Campaign and Men-at-Arms series.  Overall, Pawly's volume hits the highlights, but is certainly not intended to be comprehensive.<br /> The Kaiser's Warlords begins with an interesting 7-page summary of the German General Staff on the eve of the First World War and its profound influence on the development of the German officer corps.  Indeed, this introductory section is possible the best part of the volume.  Pawly then provides a 14-page summary of the major campaigns of the war; unfortunately, this section was overly long and one wonders why with the existence of entire Osprey Essential Histories volumes that cover this same ground the author did not merely insert a 2-page chronology of major events.  It is clear that this over-blown section detracts significantly from the space available to actually cover the German commanders. The heart of the volume is a series of biographies of 21 senior German officers, plus the Kaiser.  In fact, the Kaiser - who Pawly admits had virtually no command influence over the German armies in the First World War - gets far too much biographical coverage and even three of 24 color plates!  The other biographies cover the better-known German commanders, including: the Crown Prince; Crown Prince Rupprecht; the von Below brothers; von B&uuml;low; von Eichorn; von Rothmaler; von Falkenhayn; von Francois; von Gallwitz; von Hindenburg; von Hutier; von Kluck; von Sanders; Ludendorff; von Mackensen; von der Marwitz; von Moltke; and von Woyrsch.  The author also covers several other offices - not mentioned in the biographical section - in the color plate commentaries and in black and white photographs.  These additional officers include naval leaders Tirpitz and von Spee (Hipper and Scheer would have been better choices), and several of the more obscure army-level commanders.  Throughout the volume, the author also provides considerable information on the uniforms and insignia of German general officers in the First World War.<br /> The author succeeds in getting the highlights right, but it does not seem that he dug much beyond surface details.  Pawly notes that Otto von Below was probably the best German field commander of the war, that Emil von Eichorn was the only German general to be killed in the war (he was assassinated by Ukrainians) and that Oskar von Hutier received credit for developing the new infiltration and short bombardment tactics.  However, Pawly seems to make no effort at analysis and little effort to paint these officers as little more than general staff-trained ciphers.  In terms of analysis, Pawly might have noted that these officers were rather elderly (the average age of the 21 profiled was almost 59 years old in 1914, and 6 of 21 were over 65 at the start of the war) and that only 10 of 21 had pre-war combat experience.  Unlike the French, British and Russian officers, many of whom had seen combat in the past 9-14 years, von Falkenhayn was the only senior German who had seen action in the 20th Century (the Boxer Rebellion) and the rest had not seen action in 43 years since the Franco-Prussian War.  Pawly might also have noticed that only 5 of the 21 officers profiled were non-infantry (4 cavalry, 1 artillery) and only 4 of 21 were Catholic, which probably bred a great deal of orthodoxy in thinking.  Readers might consider contrasting this ultra-orthodoxy with the much greater degree of diversity in the German officer Corps of the Second World War, where signal officers (Guderian), aviators (Kesselring) and even former enlisted men were allowed to command Hitler's armies.  Indeed, Pawly's compact little study depicts the Kaiser's commanders as military professionals par excellence on the one hand, but alsosubtly casts doubt on their ability to understand the new face of war any better than their opponents.  The fact that only a single German general died in action in the First World War - as opposed to dozens in the Second World War - certainly emphasizes that this was a far different breed of officer who led German armies in 1914-1918.  While von Mackensen was one of the few to display some panache, none came close to the \\"lead from the front style\\" of generals like Rommel, Guderian or Model thirty years later.  Despite the popular tendency to caricature British generals in the First World War as \\"donkeys,\\" it is possible that Pawly's thin volume might help readers to appreciate that \\"chateau generalship\\" and ossified leadership affected both sides.ubtly casts doubt on their ability to understand the new face of war any better than their opponents.  The fact that only a single German general died in action in the First World War - as opposed to dozens in the Second World War - certainly emphasizes that this was a far different breed of officer who led German armies in 1914-1918.  While von Mackensen was one of the few to display some panache, none came close to the \\"lead from the front style\\" of generals like Rommel, Guderian or Model thirty years later.  Despite the popular tendency to caricature British generals in the First World War as \\"donkeys,\\" it is possible that Pawly's thin volume might help readers to appreciate that \\"chateau generalship\\" and ossified leadership affected both sides.	2004-02-01
812394:US	52533596	RLB9ZA2YMJOUG	184176504X	50634220	German Destroyers 1939–45 (New Vanguard)	Books	4	13	16	N	Y	Impressive Design but too Few to Matter	Most volumes that discuss German naval operations in the Second World War tend to focus on the U-Boat campaigns and the occasional sorties of large warships like the Bismarck or pocket battleships.  Scant attention has been given to the German lighter naval forces such as destroyers and torpedo boats, which were actually the most active surface units in the Kriegsmarine. Gordon Williamson, who has published numerous naval volumes for Osprey, provides a useful summary of German destroyers in the Second World War in Osprey's New Vanguard #91.<br /> German Destroyers 1939-1945 begins with a very brief introduction, followed by short sections on armament, radar, color schemes and camouflage, ship's namesakes, and flotilla organization.  The author then provides a summary of each of the six German destroyer types, including basic technical data, launching/commissioning dates and fate for each member of the type, and names of ship commanders.  The \\"meatiest\\" part of this thin volume is the 12-page section on wartime service, which details the major operations in which German destroyers were involved in the Second World War.  Certainly the best part of this volume is the superb color plates which include: two Type 34A destroyers in profile; Ambush at Narvik (Georg Thiele versus HMS Eskimo); a profile and overhead depiction of the Type 34 class; a detailed cutaway of theZ39; a profile and overhead of a Type 36A; the Karl Galster escorting the Tirpitz in the Far North; and a profile and overhead depiction of the Type 36A.  The volume also includes about 39 black and white photographs that while interesting are mostly peacetime and in-port type shots, instead of operational photos.  I was also disappointed that the author did not provide a map of the destroyer action at Narvik, since this was the critical battle of the war for the German destroyers.  Williamson's bibliography is very thin, and readers should consult M.J. Whitley's 1983 book, Destroyer!, which has clearly influenced this summary.  There is also one significant error in the volume, when Williamson clams that during the \\"Channel Dash\\" in February 1942, \\"three of the older torpedo boats that also formed part of the escort force were sunk\\".  In fact, the Germans lost no ships during the \\"Channel Dash\\" and Williamson is obviously confusing the loss of the torpedo boats Iltis and Seeadler that were sunk three months later.<br /> Williamson concludes that, \\"the German destroyers, whilst large and impressively armed, were dogged by mechanical failure, hampered by lack of training for the crews and often by over-timid commanders who failed to use their vessels aggressively enough.\\"  Although Williamson mentions the \\"notoriously unreliable power plant of the German destroyers,\\" he fails to explain that the Kriegsmarine [German Navy] opted to install a virtually untested high-pressure boiler system in their destroyers built in the 1930s.  The Kriegsmarine took a chance on an untested design - one that delivered 300% more pressure than similar British designs and offered the potential of a 2-4 knot speed advantage over their British opponents - but the gamble brought a very high degree of mechanical unreliability.  While the German destroyers had significantly greater potential horsepower than all but a handful of French destroyers, the extra speed came at a high price.  Furthermore, while the German destroyers were fairly heavily armed, their gunnery and torpedo marksmanship was typically poor, except in the narrow confines of the fjords around Narvik.<br /> While mechanical problems, insufficient training and timid leadership certainly reduced the impact of the Kriegsmarine's destroyer arm, the critical deficiency that Williamson fails to emphasize is the sheer lack of numbers.  German started the war with 22 destroyers and one year later had only ten left; throughout the war Germany rarely had more than 12-15 destroyers operational.  The pre-war \\"Z Plan\\" to build up the Kriegsmarine called for the construction of 68 destroyers but less than half were ever built.  Once the war began, Germany's limited naval construction capability shifted primarily to U-Boats and completing prestige units like Bismarck and Tirpitz, with very little effort left for destroyers.  The loss of 50% of the available destroyers at Narvik so early in the war was a catastrophe and Williamson fails to note that this lack of naval units was critical in influencing Hitler's decision to call off Operation Sealion, the invasion of Britain.  Even if the German destroyer's high-pressure steam plants had worked as advertised, there were just too few of these vessels to significantly influence the naval balance in European waters.  In an era where the British and American navies were fielding over 100 destroyers and building dozens more every year, the tiny German destroyer arm pales in significance.  Lacking numbers, the Kriegsmarine tended to avoid decisive combat since they knew that they could not trade losses with the Royal Navy, and this reduced most of the surface fleet to little more than a \\"fleet in being.\\"egsmarine called for the construction of 68 destroyers but less than half were ever built.  Once the war began, Germany's limited naval construction capability shifted primarily to U-Boats and completing prestige units like Bismarck and Tirpitz, with very little effort left for destroyers.  The loss of 50% of the available destroyers at Narvik so early in the war was a catastrophe and Williamson fails to note that this lack of naval units was critical in influencing Hitler's decision to call off Operation Sealion, the invasion of Britain.  Even if the German destroyer's high-pressure steam plants had worked as advertised, there were just too few of these vessels to significantly influence the naval balance in European waters.  In an era where the British and American navies were fielding over 100 destroyers and building dozens more every year, the tiny German destroyer arm pales in significance.  Lacking numbers, the Kriegsmarine tended to avoid decisive combat since they knew that they could not trade losses with the Royal Navy, and this reduced most of the surface fleet to little more than a \\"fleet in being.\\"	2004-01-25
812531:US	52533596	R3J9X4F9BA46LZ	1841765953	661046170	The Austro-Hungarian Forces in World War I (2): 1916–18 (Men-at-Arms) (v. 2)	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	A Valuable Addition	Dr Peter Jung, late of the Austrian War Archives, completed his second volume for Osprey on the Austro-Hungarian forces in the First World War.  Together, these two volumes, while thin, shed much light on the heretofore-neglected Austro-Hungarian troops who played such a large role in the First World War.<br />  Dr. Jung begins with an introduction concerning the new Austrian emperor and then provides a 7-page summary of major operations in 1916-1918.  He then covers army reorganization in the last two years of the war, uniforms and equipment, and a 9-page section on specialist troops (storm troopers, mountain troops, searchlight troops, gas warfare, auto troops, armored cars, army aviation, naval troops, chaplains and female troops.  A final section includes information on secondary fronts (the Orientkorps in Palestine and the Western front, which includes two very detailed orders of battle (AH units on Turkish fronts and AH troops on the Western Front in October 1918). The color plates consist of: Austrian senior leaders (Emperor Karl I, FM Conrad and Colonel-General Boroevic); specialist troops (dog handlers, dismounted cavalry, mountain troops); military chaplains (Catholic, Jewish, Muslim and Protestant); naval troops; storm troops; aviators; ethnic troops (Albanian, Ukrainian); and odds-and-ends troops in late 1918.  While the color plates are excellent, as usual, some of the choices (such as an entire plate on chaplains) are questionable and it would have been desirable to have at least one color plate of Austrian troops in action.  Finally, the author's 2-page bibliography is very detailed and should prove very useful for any readers wishing to pursue further research on this topic.  The only serious omissions in both volumes are the lack of any real discussion of Austrian tactical or operational level doctrine, and the lack of any first-person accounts.<br />  There is a great deal of specialized information about the Austro-Hungarian army in both this volume and its predecessor, making them valuable commodities for anyone interested in a better understanding of the First World War.  Given the constraints of the Osprey Men-at-Arms series, Dr. Jung made a commendable effort and these two volumes should be on the bookshelf of all serious students of the Great War.me and its predecessor, making them valuable commodities for anyone interested in a better understanding of the First World War.  Given the constraints of the Osprey Men-at-Arms series, Dr. Jung made a commendable effort and these two volumes should be on the bookshelf of all serious students of the Great War.	2004-01-25
813037:US	52533596	R38KN4V1TD5PL6	1841763594	801362822	Rome at War 293-696 AD	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Ten Pounds of Data poured into a Five Pound Bag	Trying to summarize four very turbulent centuries that witnessed the decline of one of history's greatest empires into a short 90-page volume is a daunting task.  In Osprey's Essential Histories #21, Rome at War Ad 293 - 696, British Professor Michael Whitby tries to compress a huge amount of material into this thin volume with mixed results.  On the one hand, the author succeeds in summarizing most - but not all - of the main points about Imperial Rome's decline, yet the summarization is forced to exclude so much pertinent data that it reduces the overall value of this volume.  Ultimately, even the novice Roman reader will be forced to consult other sources; it would have been better for Professor Whitby to cover two centuries in greater detail than four centuries in little more than outline format.<br />  Professor Whitby begins Rome at War AD 293-696 with a short 3-page introduction; the author's underlying thesis is unclear although it appears to be an opposition to the &quot;decline and fall&quot; model that suggests that the disintegration of Roman hegemony was inevitable.  Instead, Whitby suggests that Roman decline was not inevitable - at times it was even reversed - and that a complex variety of factors &quot;undermined the fiscal and military structures which permitted the imperial machine to function&quot;.  The section on background to war addresses Roman frontiers, taxes and trade.  The section on opposing sides, which discusses the late Roman army, the Persians and the various Barbarian enemies, is quite good for its size.  The main narrative is obviously constrained, having to cover four centuries in only 40 pages.  The eleven maps supporting the text are: Roman provinces in AD 200-700; movement of Goths across Europe; Eastern frontier in the 4th Century; the battles of Argentoratum and Adrianople; Hunnic raids; Disintegration of the West; Eastern campaigns in the 6th Century; invasion of the Balkans in the 6th Century; Islamic conquests; and the Post-Roman West.  A major disappointment is that there are no maps depicting the campaigns of Belisarius or Narses in the West, which were critical in salvaging something from the wreckage of the Western Empire.  The 2-page bibliography is also decent, although hardly comprehensive.<br />  Although the author disputes the inevitability of Roman decline, he fails to outline the main theories about the &quot;decline and fall&quot; model, such as the &quot;barbarization&quot; of the Roman army.  While the author notes correctly that the Romans were able to &quot;hold their own, partly through superior organization and training, partly through strong defenses, but above all by the strategy of trying to avoid simultaneous conflict on different frontiers,&quot; he never fully explains why the Romans lost these advantages over time.  To be sure, the rise of very large Barbarian federations, such as the Huns and the Avars, made it difficult for the Romans to use their preferred &quot;divide and conquer&quot; tactics.  However, the Romans had suffered far worse defeats at the hands of the Carthaginians and various Germanic tribes and recovered - Rome probably had greater ability to recover from disaster than any other state in history.  Also, while the author makes clear that various factors combined to erode the Roman tax base and urban areas upon which Imperial power rested, it is not really clear how great this erosion was (the author should have used Susan Mattern's Rome and the Enemy, which discussed Roman budgets and its impact on the military at length).  The author spends a fair amount of time discussing the role of Christianity in the late Empire, and it is interesting to see that Christianity was adopted by Roman leaders because they viewed it as useful to the state.  Certainly, Whitby's assessment about whether or not Christianity hurt the empire (he suggests it may have helped revive it) does not follow the thesis set by Edward Gibbon more than two centuries ago.<br/>  However, for readers who seek greater detail about the military or even political aspects of the decline of the West Roman Empire, this volume fairs to deliver.  It is particularly disappointing to see how little detail there is on Belisarius, one of the great captains in military history, major battles like Chalons, or major political figures like Justinian.  Although Professor Whitby probably gets the broad nuances of Rome's decline in these pages, he lacked the space to fully develop these themes into a coherent narrative that explains why this decline occurred.s ago.    <br />         However, for readers who seek greater detail about the military or even political aspects of the decline of the West Roman Empire, this volume fairs to deliver.  It is particularly disappointing to see how little detail there is on Belisarius, one of the great captains in military history, major battles like Chalons, or major political figures like Justinian.  Although Professor Whitby probably gets the broad nuances of Rome's decline in these pages, he lacked the space to fully develop these themes into a coherent narrative that explains why this decline occurred.	2004-01-24
817089:US	52533596	R1AATXVVZ95UWG	1841765627	769033253	Kawanakajima 1553-1564: Samurai Power Struggle (Campaign, 130)	Books	3	8	25	N	Y	Doesn't Pass the &quot;So What?&quot; Test	The battles of Kawanakajima fought in mid-16th Century Japan are so obscure that they are not even mentioned in the authoritative Encyclopedia of Military History, but Samurai enthusiast Stephen Turnbull feels that they are among &quot;history's greatest conflicts&quot; - a prerequisite for admission into the Osprey Campaign series.  Turnbull's hypothesis in Campaign #130, Kawanakajima 1553-1564, is that the five battles fought on the plains of Shinano province were the &quot;archetypal clash of samurai arms&quot;.  Two rival daimyo (feudal lords) - the Takeda and Uesugi - fought a series of battles for the control of Shinano province, which separated their two domains.  However the campaign is deservedly obscure, since not only were both the rival clans virtually extinct within a generation after the battles, but this regional power struggle was soon overshadowed by even more powerful warlords who were in the process of unifying Japan under military rule.  Thus, the Kawanakajima campaigns might be interesting for a Samurai enthusiast such as Turnbull, but he essentially fails to pass the &quot;so what&quot; test of historical relevancy.  The 32-year fight over Shinano province, while enrichening for Samurai mythology, had very little long-lasting results.<br /> Kawanakajima 1553-1564 begins with a 5-page introduction that explains the mythology behind the multiple battles.  The section on opposing commanders focuses entirely on Takeda Shingen (Turnbull notes that he was a bisexual who had a relationship with one of his generals) and Uesugi Kenshin, both of whom were nominally Buddhist monks.  Actually, there is little to differentiate between the two clans and the reader may feel an intense disinterest as to which side prevails.  Turnbull's sections on opposing armies is not particularly detailed, but he makes the point that this campaign marked a turning point in Japanese warfare toward more full-time samurai armed with a greater number of gunpowder weapons.  The main focus of the volume is the 4th battle of Kawanakajima in 1561, which was the only really large-scale pitched battle (the other battles were stand-offs or indecisive).  The five 2-D maps are: Central Japan 1542; Takeda Shingen's Conquest of Shinano, 1536-1568 (the most important map in the volume); the First (1553), Second (1555) and Third (1557) battles of Kawanakajima.  The three 3-D maps are all about the 4th Battle of Kawanakajima (1561) and depict the approach marches, the night maneuvers and the climax of the battle.  The three color battle scenes depict the Siege of Katsurayama in 1557; the Uesugi charge at 4th Kawanakajima and the battle at the ford.  Readers should note that the paucity of source material forces Turnbull to rely very heavily upon a single 16th Century account that was written by the Takeda clan (therefore biased).  Turnbull also relied very heavily upon photographs of the modern terrain (22) and modern re-enactments (8).<br /> Turnbull's account is certainly interesting at times and it reminds me of the decades-long fight for Silesia in the 18th Century between Frederick the Great and the Hapsburgs.  However, despite the &quot;romance&quot; of samurai lore, the fight over Shinano province did not yield long-term results for either side, unlike the struggle for Silesia (which marked the rise of Prussia).  Both Takeda and Uesugi were soon overshadowed by the much more powerful armies of Oda Nobunaga and Ieyasu Tokugawa, who were on the path to military unification of Japan.  In the end, Kawanakajima might provide interesting insight into a heretofore obscure but &quot;classic&quot; samurai campaign, but it provides precious little else.  Furthermore, Kawanakajima is not only obscure in the US; as an Asian history major who studied at a Tokyo university for a year, I do not recollect hearing about these battles despite having a number of courses on Medieval Japanese history.  Finally, Turnbull's use of Japanese phraseology is sometimes suspect and his use of terms like &quot;hara-kiri&quot; (literally to cut your guts) is considered vulgar in Japan; the term used for ritual suicide was usually seppukku.suspect and his use of terms like &quot;hara-kiri&quot; (literally to cut your guts) is considered vulgar in Japan; the term used for ritual suicide was usually seppukku.	2004-01-21
821749:US	52533596	R2KD63U8KWQJ28	1841766801	403035782	Fair Oaks 1862	Books	3	15	16	N	N	McClellan Swings into Action (sort of)	Angus Konstam, probably one of the most prolific Osprey authors, turns his attention toward the early days of the American Civil War and in Campaign #124 he hopes, &quot;to reestablish Fair Oaks...as one of the key actions of the war.&quot;  Certainly Union Major General McClellan's controversial Peninsula campaign of 1862 is one of the more interesting - if futile - operations of the war.  Konstam is also correct in his assessment that Fair Oaks, the first major action in a series of battles that doomed the Union offensive, has not received anything like the attention of other battles like Gettysburg, Antietam or Shiloh.  According to Konstam, the Confederate counterattack at Fair Oaks on 31 May 1862 - although unsuccessful - introduced doubt into McClellan's mind about his own offensive's chances for success and thus represented a psychological watershed, somewhat akin to the 1968 Tet Offensive in Vietnam.  However much the author presents this argument, it is not clear that he proves his hypothesis about the battle's historical significance.<br /> Fair Oaks 1862 begins with a rather lengthy 8-page introduction on the origins of the campaign, followed by a campaign chronology.  The 6-page section on opposing plans has two sections: campaign plans for each side and tactical battle plans for the Confederate counterattack.  The 6-page section on opposing commanders covers the major army and corps level leaders on each side, with photographs of all individuals cited.  The 7-page section on opposing armies is built around a detailed regimental-level order of battle, but it actually says little about the strengths and weaknesses of each force.  It is also disappointing that the author does not provide details on how much cavalry or artillery each side had.  The campaign narrative itself devotes 25 pages to the siege of Yorktown and the battle of Williamsburg, and 23 pages to the battle of Fair Oaks.  The author provides five 2-D maps (the eastern theater in spring 1862; the Union landings in April 1862; Yorktown to Williamsburg; McClellan's advance to the Chickahominy; the Confederate advance), three 3-D maps (the battle of Williamsburg; the Confederate assault on 31 May 1862; the Union counterattack on 1 June 1862) and three excellent full color battle scenes (the Confederate withdrawal from Yorktown; the storming of Casey's redoubt; Confederate cavalry looting Tunstall's station).  Readers should note the slight pro-Confederate bias in that all the battle scenes are primarily from the Confederate viewpoint.  Also, the author's writing style in this volume is onerous, with many paragraphs over one page long and some over two pages in length.<br /> There is some significant bias evident in these pages, and it is clear that the author's sympathies are with the Confederates.  Prior to the Peninsula campaign, Konstam describes the Union defeat at Ball's Bluff on 21 October 1861, in which he states that the Union brigade commanded by Colonel Edward Baker was &quot;destroyed&quot; and that &quot;Baker was killed...along with most of his men.&quot;  Konstam uses this action to suggest the greater tactical prowess of Confederate troops but virtually ignores the fact that the Union unit was conducting a difficult river crossing.  Furthermore, although the Union brigade suffered about 54% losses, only 49 troops out of 1,700 engaged were killed and Confederate casualties were nearly as large.  Konstam is also somewhat disingenuous about the Battle of Williamsburg in stating that McClellan &quot;allowed Johnston [the Confederate commander] to slip away.&quot;  Readers should note that the author does not mention casualties at Williamsburg - which were over 1,900 killed and wounded for the Union and over 1,200 for the Confederates - losses comparable to the battle of First Bull Run.  Williamsburg was in fact, a successful delaying operation for the Confederates, but the heavy casualties indicate that the Union army did not let them slip awayunscathed.<br /> Virtually the author's entire hypothesis about the campaign revolves around the psychology of McClellan and Konstam concludes that, &quot;the battle marked a turning point, as from that moment on, McClellan lost his nerve.&quot;  Although Konstam criticizes McClellan's over-caution throughout the text, he is also quick to blame President Lincoln's retention of McDowell's command near Washington as undermining McClellan's determination to push on to Richmond.  However, there is little to suggest that McClellan was ever really serious about smashing his way into Richmond, given his perennial search for reasons to waste time and the non-availability of McDowell's corps might have been a convenient excuse for grinding to a virtual halt within sight of Richmond.  Konstam never raises the possibility that McClellan may never have been serious about storming Richmond and that his offensive may have been designed merely to give the Union a strong hand at the bargaining table; Konstam should have mentioned that two years later, McClellan ran for the presidency on a platform that called for a negotiated settlement to end the war.  Whether or not McClellan was thinking along these lines in 1862, it is clear that he was not thinking along Lincoln's lines and in a republic where military commanders are subordinate to politicians, this is taboo.  Given &quot;Stonewall&quot; Jackson's rampage in the Shenandoah Valley, Lincoln's decision to retain strong forces near the capital was prudent.<br /> If McClellan was truly committed to an offensive strategy, it is hard to see how a botched Confederate counterattack at Fair Oaks - which cost the rebels heavier losses - could have shaken him for his plan of action.  Between 1 June and the start of the Seven Days fighting on 26 June, McClellan had almost four weeks in which he neither attacked or retreated - this was far more than indecision, since if he had truly lost his nerve as Konstam suggests, he should have ordered a retreat to defensible lines before Lee struck.  Konstam's account also suggests that the Union army was tactically inferior to the Confederates, but the fact is that of the ten actions fought between April-July 1862 in the Peninsula the Confederates only achieved one tactical success (Gaine's Mill).p away unscathed.  <br /> Virtually the author's entire hypothesis about the campaign revolves around the psychology of McClellan and Konstam concludes that, &quot;the battle marked a turning point, as from that moment on, McClellan lost his nerve.&quot;  Although Konstam criticizes McClellan's over-caution throughout the text, he is also quick to blame President Lincoln's retention of McDowell's command near Washington as undermining McClellan's determination to push on to Richmond.  However, there is little to suggest that McClellan was ever really serious about smashing his way into Richmond, given his perennial search for reasons to waste time and the non-availability of McDowell's corps might have been a convenient excuse for grinding to a virtual halt within sight of Richmond.  Konstam never raises the possibility that McClellan may never have been serious about storming Richmond and that his offensive may have been designed merely to give the Union a strong hand at the bargaining table; Konstam should have mentioned that two years later, McClellan ran for the presidency on a platform that called for a negotiated settlement to end the war.  Whether or not McClellan was thinking along these lines in 1862, it is clear that he was not thinking along Lincoln's lines and in a republic where military commanders are subordinate to politicians, this is taboo.  Given &quot;Stonewall&quot; Jackson's rampage in the Shenandoah Valley, Lincoln's decision to retain strong forces near the capital was prudent.  <br /> If McClellan was truly committed to an offensive strategy, it is hard to see how a botched Confederate counterattack at Fair Oaks - which cost the rebels heavier losses - could have shaken him for his plan of action.  Between 1 June and the start of the Seven Days fighting on 26 June, McClellan had almost four weeks in which he neither attacked or retreated - this was far more than indecision, since if he had truly lost his nerve as Konstam suggests, he should have ordered a retreat to defensible lines before Lee struck.  Konstam's account also suggests that the Union army was tactically inferior to the Confederates, but the fact is that of the ten actions fought between April-July 1862 in the Peninsula the Confederates only achieved one tactical success (Gaine's Mill).	2004-01-18
822802:US	52533596	R6HXF96E393LN	184176633X	884162957	British Battlecruisers 1939–45 (New Vanguard)	Books	3	20	23	N	Y	Less Bang for the Buck	At first glance, Osprey New Vanguard #88, British Battle cruisers 1939-1945, is an attractively packaged and interesting summary about a very controversial class of warships.  The back of the volume and the title suggests that this volume will provide detailed information about the three British battlecruisers - the Hood, Repulse and Renown - which served in the Second World War.  Unfortunately, the attractiveness of this volume quickly begins to dissipate after the first few pages when it becomes clear to the reader that the author intends to widen his scope beyond these three warships and that his research effort was modest, at best.  Certainly Angus Konstam is one of Osprey's better writers, but he has been cranking out volumes at a rapid clip in the past few years (5-6 per year) and it is apparent that the author did not take (or have) the time necessary to delve beyond the superficial level of this subject.<br /> Konstam begins with a short introduction outlining the history of the battlecruiser concept in the Royal Navy back to the 1860s, followed by lengthier sections on the development, construction and modifications of the six British battlecruisers that were built between 1916-1920.  Of these, three were converted to aircraft carriers shortly after completion and saw minimal service as battlecruisers.  Konstam then provides outline sections on the service history of the Repulse, Renown and Hood and summaries of the three main battlecruiser actions in the Second World War.  The color plates include: HMS Repulse in 1916 and 1941; HMS Hood engaging the Bismarck; HMS Hood in 1920, HMS Glorious as battlecruiser and carrier; a very nice cutaway of HMS Hood in 1941; HMS Renown in 1941 and 1943; the sinking of HMS Repulse; and a gun turret from the Hood.  Overall, the graphic quality of this volume is very high but the bibliography is suspiciously lightweight (no mention of the Naval Institute classic on British battleships and battlecruisers by Allen Raven).<br /> Unfortunately, the technical detail in this volume does not go beyond - or even meet the ordinary.  A quick glance at the three pages of Jane's from the Second World War editions provide more technical data than Konstam does in 48 pages here.  Unlike Jane's, Konstam provides no overhead deck layouts of the vessels and no diagrams that depict the armor belt.  All of this was easily feasible from available secondary sources, but no effort was made.  In fact, the only data that Konstam provides is the very basic features such as displacement, measurements, machinery, speed, armor belt in inches, armament and complement. The author also provides a separate data box on the 15\\" gun, but there is no data on the secondary armament.  Part of the problem is that the author devotes too much space to the three battlecruisers that were converted to carriers, which steals valuable space available for the main topic.<br /> However, Konstam also fails to attempt any real analysis of these three warships and he omits critical data altogether, less cost and fuel consumption.  While the \\"R\\" class battleships each cost about £2.5 million and the \\"Queen Elizabeth\\" class battleships cost £3 million each, HMS Repulse cost £2.6 million, HMS Renown cost £3.1 million and HMS Hood cost a whopping £6 million to build.  Furthermore, during the 1920s when budgets were tight and the Royal Navy could only afford to build a small number of modern warships, HMS Hood was costing over £400,000 a year to maintain.  Thus, instead of three lightly protected, under-armed (Repulse and Renown had only six, not eight main guns) but fast battlecruisers, the British could have had four more battleships that were more capable overall.  The high cost of the battlecruisers was further exacerbated by their excessive fuel consumption - Konstam does not mention that the 20-30% greater speed of the battlecruisers over the battleships came at the cost of 300% greater fuel consumption, both at full speed and even cruising.  Hood, Renown and Repulse were fuel hogs with very short legs.  Adding insult to injury, the Royal Navy spent upwards over £5 million constantly tinkering with these ships during the interwar period, but they were still woefully unprepared for war in 1939.<br /> Konstam hints that these ships were retained for non-practical reasons such as sentimental attachment to the battlecruiser theory (despite disaster at Jutland in 1916) and prestige reasons, but he does not delve deeply enough into this subject, which is probably crucial to understanding why Britain devoted so much resources to a faulty weapons system.  Konstam also fails to scratch more than the surface of the two main battlecruiser actions in the Second World War - the Battle of Denmark Strait and the destruction of Force \\"Z\\" off Malaya (no tactical maps or eyewitness accounts provided).  Vice-Admiral Holland's (on HMS Hood) decision to engage the Bismarck while in the aggressive tradition of the Royal Navy, exceeded his mission which was to find the enemy, deny them use of the strait and then track the enemy until superior forces could be brought to bear.  A 1-1 fight to the death against two of the newest warships in the world was unnecessary and dumb.  Similarly, the poor judgment of Admiral Phillips contributed greatly to the loss of HMS Repulse (unfortunately, Konstam apparently did not use Martin Middlebrook's excellent book on the sinking of the Repulse).  Thus, the aggressive nature of the men who rose to command battlecruisers might have been as culpable as the designers.<br /> It is also odd that Konstam makes no mention of the wrecks of the Hood and Repulse, both of which have been found and photographed.  In particular, recent visits to the grave of the Hood have revealed new details about her demise.  In sum, this volume is fine as a bare-bones summary, but provides no in-depth detail.and even cruising.  Hood, Renown and Repulse were fuel hogs with very short legs.  Adding insult to injury, the Royal Navy spent upwards over £5 million constantly tinkering with these ships during the interwar period, but they were still woefully unprepared for war in 1939.  <br /> Konstam hints that these ships were retained for non-practical reasons such as sentimental attachment to the battlecruiser theory (despite disaster at Jutland in 1916) and prestige reasons, but he does not delve deeply enough into this subject, which is probably crucial to understanding why Britain devoted so much resources to a faulty weapons system.  Konstam also fails to scratch more than the surface of the two main battlecruiser actions in the Second World War - the Battle of Denmark Strait and the destruction of Force \\"Z\\" off Malaya (no tactical maps or eyewitness accounts provided).  Vice-Admiral Holland's (on HMS Hood) decision to engage the Bismarck while in the aggressive tradition of the Royal Navy, exceeded his mission which was to find the enemy, deny them use of the strait and then track the enemy until superior forces could be brought to bear.  A 1-1 fight to the death against two of the newest warships in the world was unnecessary and dumb.  Similarly, the poor judgment of Admiral Phillips contributed greatly to the loss of HMS Repulse (unfortunately, Konstam apparently did not use Martin Middlebrook's excellent book on the sinking of the Repulse).  Thus, the aggressive nature of the men who rose to command battlecruisers might have been as culpable as the designers.   <br /> It is also odd that Konstam makes no mention of the wrecks of the Hood and Repulse, both of which have been found and photographed.  In particular, recent visits to the grave of the Hood have revealed new details about her demise.  In sum, this volume is fine as a bare-bones summary, but provides no in-depth detail.	2004-01-17
830275:US	52533596	R17Y71GQZ7QYQU	184176681X	399569343	Quebec 1775: The American invasion of Canada (Campaign)	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	Benedict Arnold's Finest Hour	The American invasion of Canada in 1775 rarely gets much coverage in American history for a variety of reasons.  Americans like to think of their forefathers defending home and hearth against British tyranny, spearheaded by the dreaded Redcoats, not invading a territory that did not want to be part of their new nation.  The fact that the campaign also ended in ignominious failure further discourages attention.  However perhaps the greatest impediment to American study of this important but neglected campaign is the fact that the hero of the hour was none other than Benedict Arnold, the most despised figure in American history.  Brendan Morrissey, the British PR consultant who did three earlier volumes for Osprey on the American Revolution, brings the Quebec campaign into sharp focus in Osprey's Campaign #128.  In particular, this volume on Quebec 1775 would also make a useful campaign study for military officers.<br />  Quebec 1775 begins with a 5-page introduction that provides background on the Quebec Act, a four-page section on the geography, people and political issues and a campaign chronology. The sections on opposing commanders and opposing forces are decent, but Morrissey provides no order of battle for either side (in particular, he omits British ground and naval forces in Nova Scotia).  The campaign narrative itself is 60 pages long, and includes separate sections on the initial battles, Arnold's journey across the Maine wilderness, the American retreat from Canada and the Battle of Valcour Island.  The author also provides an interesting section on the battlefields today and an annotated bibliography.  The campaign narrative is supported by five 2-D maps (North America and the Quebec Act; Lower Canada on the eve of war; Montgomery's advance into Canada; Arnold's march to Quebec; Sullivan's retreat from Canada), three 3-D &quot;Bird's Eye View&quot; maps (the siege of St Johns; the attack on Quebec; the Battle of Valcour Island) and three color battle scenes (the siege of St Johns; Arnold is wounded at Quebec; the Hesse Hanau artillery in action at Valcour Island).  All in all, the graphic presentations are effective and make this volume a useful supplement to any study of early military operations in the American Revolution.<br />Morrissey is a good storyteller and he relates the facts of the campaign with both precision and accuracy.  However, Morrissey does not really attempt any military analysis and readers should be cautioned to treat the authors' opinion with some circumspection.  Throughout the text, Morrissey defends Major General Sir Guy Carleton, the British commander in Canada, from accusations of over-caution and even timidity.  Yet it is pretty obvious that the British army in Canada had gotten into a peacetime rut after nine years of quiet garrison duty in Montreal and neither the troops or commanders were up to the demands of mobile warfare.  Carleton's decision to commit the bulk of his regulars to a &quot;die-in-place&quot; mission at St. Johns on the border rather than to conduct a delay or launch a spoiling attack was a major mistake.  Indeed, the passivity of the British regulars in the first six months of the campaign is truly amazing - they virtually sat immobile and then just fell over like ninepins at the first strike - and it goes a long way toward explaining American initial successes.  Morrissey considers the siege of St Johns as a valiant effort that delayed the American invasion for two months but the defense did not save Montreal from occupation and Arnold did not reach Quebec until nearly two weeks after the surrender of St Johns.  With the loss of Montreal and nearly 70% of the British regulars in Canada at the cost of fewer than 200 American casualties, the British were on the verge of losing in weeks what had taken years of hard fighting to conquer in the Seven Years War.<br />  Like most historians, Morrissey goes along with the notion that the American assault on Quebec on New Years Eve 1775 was foredoomed to failure.  Granted, the Americans were attacking a fortified position held by an enemy that outnumbered them 2-1, but Morrissey does not credit the American advantages in morale and maneuver warfare.  The British rag-tag force of militia (French and English), sailors and a few remaining regulars was willing to wait behind their defenses and they were commanded by men who leaned toward caution.  Arnold and Daniel Morgan, the commander of the riflemen, typified the aggressive and anything-is-possible type mentality that represented the real military capability of the American patriots in 1775-1776.  Morrissey fails to note that the American plan of attack - a pincer effort - was fairly sophisticated and came fairly close to success.  Had the Americans made more effort in dealing with the British obstacle plan, the defenses might have been breached and the polyglot British force probably would have surrendered (certainly the Canada militia would probably have decided not to risk their lives for the British).  As it was, the failure of the attack and the loss of much of the American army did not entice the slightest aggressiveness from Carleton.<br />  After leading the New Years Eve attack with Richard Montgomery and being wounded, Arnold remained in Canada to rally the now-dispirited Americans.  Once British reinforcements arrived in 1776 and the American army began to retreat, Morrissey notes that Arnold was the last American soldier to leave Canada. Arnold then threw himself into the construction of a fleet on Lake Champlain and fought the Battle of Valcour Island that helped to delay a British counter-invasion of northern New York. All in all, Arnold's performance in the Quebec campaign between May 1775 and October 1776 was one of the amazing displays of dynamic tactical leadership ever seen by an American commander.  Unfortunately, as Medal of Honor winner &quot;Pappy&quot; Boyington once said, &quot;show me a hero and I'll show you a bum,&quot; it was never more true than in the case of Arnold.on Quebec on New Years Eve 1775 was foredoomed to failure.  Granted, the Americans were attacking a fortified position held by an enemy that outnumbered them 2-1, but Morrissey does not credit the American advantages in morale and maneuver warfare.  The British rag-tag force of militia (French and English), sailors and a few remaining regulars was willing to wait behind their defenses and they were commanded by men who leaned toward caution.  Arnold and Daniel Morgan, the commander of the riflemen, typified the aggressive and anything-is-possible type mentality that represented the real military capability of the American patriots in 1775-1776.  Morrissey fails to note that the American plan of attack - a pincer effort - was fairly sophisticated and came fairly close to success.  Had the Americans made more effort in dealing with the British obstacle plan, the defenses might have been breached and the polyglot British force probably would have surrendered (certainly the Canada militia would probably have decided not to risk their lives for the British).  As it was, the failure of the attack and the loss of much of the American army did not entice the slightest aggressiveness from Carleton.  <br />        After leading the New Years Eve attack with Richard Montgomery and being wounded, Arnold remained in Canada to rally the now-dispirited Americans.  Once British reinforcements arrived in 1776 and the American army began to retreat, Morrissey notes that Arnold was the last American soldier to leave Canada. Arnold then threw himself into the construction of a fleet on Lake Champlain and fought the Battle of Valcour Island that helped to delay a British counter-invasion of northern New York. All in all, Arnold's performance in the Quebec campaign between May 1775 and October 1776 was one of the amazing displays of dynamic tactical leadership ever seen by an American commander.  Unfortunately, as Medal of Honor winner &quot;Pappy&quot; Boyington once said, &quot;show mea hero and I'll show you a bum,&quot; it was never more true than in the case of Arnold.	2004-01-12
875544:US	52533596	R3K3TS8F1APT4W	0385271875	402862826	The Romanovs: Autocrats of All the Russias	Books	4	35	35	N	Y	A Very Readable Account of Imperial Russia's Rulers	W. Bruce Lincoln's history of the 300 years of Romanov rule in Russia (1613-1917) is easily his most readable account of Russian history.  While Professor Lincoln's research is meticulous as ever, in this volume he has to cover far more ground than in his other more focused histories and thus he avoids some of the digressions that he normally might allow himself.  The result is a superb one-volume history of the Tsars and Tsarinas who determined Russia's development from a minor principality into the largest empire on earth.<br /> The Romanovs consists of four parts: Muscovite beginnings (1613-1689), the Rise of an Empire (1689-1796), Empire Triumphant (1796-1894) and the Last Emperor (1894-1917).  The first three parts each consist of several chapters, with the first covering biographical details of the Tsars and Tsarinas in that period, followed by chapters on political and cultural changes in that period.  There are only two significant problems with what is otherwise a superb presentation: a non-chronological methodology and a lack of a single supporting map of Romanov domains (there are two maps of St Petersburg's layout).  In the first case, Lincoln tends to keep coming back to Tsars in subsequent chapters on culture, politics, etc which is very confusing.  Indeed, he seems in a rush to plow through the biographies of the Tsars, then revisit their cultural accomplishments, then come back again and discuss their political accomplishments, and then maybe discuss a few scandals or wars.  As for the lack of maps, it makes it extremely difficult for the reader to evaluate the territorial expansions of the various Romanov rulers or Russia's growth over three centuries.<br /> Despite these two flaws, the Romanovs is a delightful read for anyone with a scholarly interest in Russian imperial history.  Perhaps the three most significant rulers that Lincoln assesses are Peter the Great, Catherine the Great and Nicholas II.  Most histories tend to elevate Peter to hero status, but Lincoln's evaluation is more mixed.  While Peter gets great credit for pushing Russia to modernize, the costs he incurred may have been too great.  In particular, Lincoln questions Peter's obsession with building his capital on totally unsuitable terrain; the fact that the Russians were able to eventually succeed in constructing Peter's dream capital often disguises the fact that the human and financial losses were exorbitantly wasteful.  The reader will be left to ponder the question that if Peter had built his capital elsewhere, Russia's development might have been much less painful.  As for Catherine, Lincoln prefers to minimize the scandal and corruption associated with her court and view this as the golden age of Russian cultural development. Finally, Nicholas II appears as even more of a fatalistic dolt bent on self-destruction than he did in Lincoln's previous books. In sum, The Romanovs provides a solid and very readable account of Russia's development under the Tsars and Tsarinas.status, but Lincoln's evaluation is more mixed.  While Peter gets great credit for pushing Russia to modernize, the costs he incurred may have been too great.  In particular, Lincoln questions Peter's obsession with building his capital on totally unsuitable terrain; the fact that the Russians were able to eventually succeed in constructing Peter's dream capital often disguises the fact that the human and financial losses were exorbitantly wasteful.  The reader will be left to ponder the question that if Peter had built his capital elsewhere, Russia's development might have been much less painful.  As for Catherine, Lincoln prefers to minimize the scandal and corruption associated with her court and view this as the golden age of Russian cultural development. Finally, Nicholas II appears as even more of a fatalistic dolt bent on self-destruction than he did in Lincoln's previous books. In sum, The Romanovs provides a solid and very readable account of Russia's development under the Tsars and Tsarinas.	2003-12-05
876056:US	52533596	R260XG0EZMMBTJ	0304359491	539644593	Paths of Glory: The French Army 1914-1918	Books	4	22	23	N	Y	Great Effort but Too Short	In Paths of Glory, former Sandhurst professor Anthony Clayton provides the first complete history of the French Army in the First World War.  While the narrative is a bit short (200 pages) and does not offer the depth necessary to analyze operations in detail, Clayton's work represents an excellent overview of the army that bore the brunt of the fighting for the Allies on the Western Front in 1914-1918.  Clayton also makes the point that this army, much maligned because of its poor preparation for combat in 1914 and pitiful performance in 1940, still was capable of four years of sustained combat against the best army in the world.  For readers accustomed to viewing the Western Front through German or British eyes, this volume offers a wonderful alternative.<br /> Clayton begins Paths of Glory with a chapter on the French frontier offensive in 1914 and then backtracks in the second chapter to discuss pre-war strategy and doctrine.  After this, Clayton then devotes one chapter to operations in each year of the war, plus a separate chapter on developments within the French army.  There is also a separate chapter on peripheral operations involving the French (Gallipoli, Salonika, Italy, Africa and the Mideast).  Appendices include order of battle in 1914, tactical organization, conscription and reserves, equipment, capsule biographies of the main French generals, and the career of a single French infantry regiment in 1914-1920.  Clayton includes 14 simple sketch maps, which unfortunately only a few depicting operational movements or dispositions.  The author also includes 43 photographs, ranging from leaders, to equipment to tactical scenes.<br /> Clayton assesses the main French problem in 1914 as a failure of &quot;strategic intelligence&quot; in not anticipating that the main German army would fall in Belgium or that reserve formations would be used in the enemy's first echelon.  This faulty intelligence assessment led to a rash offensive plan known as &quot;Plan XVII&quot;, which was handicapped by rigid adherence to a faulty tactical doctrine, over-age commanders and inadequate heavy artillery.  Despite all the French military flaws, the French army somehow survived the heavy losses in the frontier battles and managed to thwart the German drive on Paris by quick repositioning of forces.  Clayton does not do a particularly good job of assessing how the French were able to avoid defeat in 1914, but tends to favor the &quot;tough&quot; no-nonsense leadership of Joffre, Foch and a handful of other French operational-level commanders.  However, Clayton's defense of Joffre's command style rings hollow; certainly Napoleon would not have thought much of a commander who emphasized regular meals and uninterrupted sleep over visiting his troops.<br /> Clayton focuses heavily on morale issues - always critical for French armies - in the chapters on Verdun and the 1917 mutinies.  The mutiny is assessed as relatively limited in scope, but extensive in long-term effects.  Perhaps the best chapters in Paths of Glory cover the post-mutiny period where Petain was able to lead the battered French army through a period of recovery.  While Petain's later career as leader of Vichy France has darkened his name, his leadership abilities with a deeply-shocked army were astoundingly effective.  Indeed, Petain was not only able to rebuild the French army's morale, but to re-equip and re-train the forces to fight a modern war; the result was a much more powerful French army in 1918 (although a brittle one).<br /> Although Clayton offers some useful nuggets of information in places - such as information on French tank developments or the greater reliance on African troops - the volume is a bit too much of an overview, albeit with a Gallic perspective.  Indeed, Clayton writes well and offers excellent insight about the fighting capabilities of the much-maligned French army, but the reader will come away from this book wishing that it had been 200 pages longer.pages longer.	2003-12-05
890034:US	52533596	R3F9FVIJGB7ARJ	1841766976	63297759	Campaign 129: Operation Barbarossa 1941 (1) Army Group South	Books	4	19	21	N	Y	Some Rough Edges, but a Decent Summary	Lieutenant Colonel Robert Kirchubel, of the California Army National Guard, has embarked upon the ambitious task of summarizing the greatest land offensive in history - Operation Barbarossa - in three volumes.  Kirchubel's first volume covers the German Army Group South's (AGS) invasion of the Ukraine in 1941.  The bar is high for this task, given the vast literature available on this subject, and this volume does suffer from some rough edges.  However, LTC Kirchubel's volume is a handy summary of an important campaign and as such, is useful for military professionals and amateur historians alike.<br />  Operation Barbarossa 1941: Army Group South begins with a 5-page introduction and a detailed campaign chronology.  The 5-page section on opposing plans is good, and emphasizes that while Hitler sought the destruction of the Red Army, many of his commanders were attracted by prestige objectives like Moscow.  The 3-page section on opposing commanders is decent in covering army-level leaders, but then Kirchubel starts to ramble and includes a diverse assortment of minor subordinates.  Considering the vast amount of material available on the opposing armies in 1941, the author's 8-page section is insufficient.  Kirchubel states that \\"von Rundstedt's command numbered 46 ½ German and allied divisions\\" but his own order of battle lists 48 German, 2 Slovak and 14 Romanian divisions for a total of 64.  Oddly, the author does not mention that AGS had 674 tanks at the start, despite tons of data available on the panzer divisions.  As for the Red Army, somehow the author managed to miss the fact that the Soviets were in the midst of a huge reorganization of mechanized forces in the summer of 1941, which had a major impact on their combat readiness.  Indeed, it is clear that the author did not use David Glantz's excellent Stumbling Colossus, which details the Soviet disorganization.  Kirchubel makes two other significant errors in regard to Soviet forces: (1) he is unaware that the anti-tank brigades had been stripped of their trucks rendering them immobile and (2) his exaggeration of the combat prowess of the KV-1 heavy tank is tempered by his ignorance of the vehicles' faulty transmission that rendered it too, immobile (a recent article in ARMOR magazine described how Soviet propaganda had concealed the KV-1s weakness for decades because it was one of Stalin's pet projects).<br />  The 2-D maps in this volume are quite good and include: initial dispositions (division-level); the frontier battles; the Kiev pocket; the capture of the Crimea; the Donbas and Rostov; and strategic overview.  The three 3-D maps (the Uman Pocket, the Battle of the Sea of Azov, and the Battle for Rostov) are a bit less even; the Uman map is the victim of poor editing that mixed up Axis and Soviet units and the Rostov map is just too busy (it could have showed the German offensive or the Soviet counteroffensive, but not both).  The Rumanian front does not get its own map, so both the Axis allies and the German 11th Army are under-represented.  The three battle scenes are all very good but lacking in balance, since all are from the German viewpoint (I thought Osprey always tried to represent both sides?) and indeed, the entire volume is clearly pro-German.  The Soviet tank counterattack at Dubno - one of the largest tank battles before Kursk - would have made a good battle scene.<br />  Kirchubel's campaign narrative, which is 55 pages in length, is relatively clear and strait-forward.  It is clear from his bibliography that he has combed many excellent lengthier works for source material and that he is able to synthesize this data into a coherent summary.  Unfortunately, very few of these sources represent the Soviet point of view.  Overall, this volume represents a decent campaign summary, albeit one that is heavily from the German point of view.  The author also misuses the 5-page conclusion to essentially summarize the highlights of his narrative with very little analysis and some faulty statistics (is he really trying to say that AGS suffered only about 20,000 casualties during Barbarossa?).  The editing throughout this volume is often slip-shod, which reduces the author's ability to drive his points home.rrative with very little analysis and some faulty statistics (is he really trying to say that AGS suffered only about 20,000 casualties during Barbarossa?).  The editing throughout this volume is often slip-shod, which reduces the author's ability to drive his points home.	2003-11-24
892019:US	52533596	RUA7BHVVCWGDM	1841765155	349814737	The First Crusade 1096-99: Conquest of the Holy Land (Campaign)	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	On Track and Focused	Compared to Dr. David Nicolle's earlier volumes for Osprey, which while scholarly written have tended to digress on esoteric archaeological issues, his volume on the First Crusade is on track and focused.  Dr. Nicolle's summary of the amazing First Crusade is enhanced by the structure provided by J. France's Victory in the East: A Military History of the First Crusade (1994).  Dr. Nicolle is also wary of earlier narratives of the Crusades that slighted the role of the Byzantines and provided minimal perspective from the Turkish and Fatimid points of view; indeed, this summary is notable for its consistent attention to historical balance (some readers may feel that the Crusaders themselves get overly short shrift).<br />  The First Crusade begins with a 6-page section on the origins of the campaign and a detailed chronology for the years 1095-1099.  As Nicolle sees it, the First Crusade was primarily in response to the weakness of the Byzantine Empire after the disaster at Manzikert in 1071 - theories that the Crusades could have also been motivated by domestic or religious factors in Europe are not seriously entertained.  The sections on opposing leaders, opposing armies and opposing plans is adequate for a volume of this size, but the lack of any attempt to construct at least a bare-bones order of battle for the Crusaders is annoying (others have tried).  The centerpieces of the volume are the three 3-D &quot;Birds Eye View&quot; maps (the Battle of Dorylaeum, the Siege of Antioch, and the seizure of Jerusalem) and the three-color battle scenes (the Battle of Dorylaeum, the Battle outside Antioch and the Massacre in Jerusalem).  The subjects of these color maps and illustrations are well chosen and convey some of the vital highlights in the campaign.  There are also five 2-D color maps: the Christian and Islamic Worlds in 1095, the Crusaders' routes to Constantinople, Operations in Anatolia, campaigns in Syria and Palestine, and the Battle of Ascalon.  The author also provides a decent bibliography and a section on touring the battlefields today.<br />  Dr. Nicolle's campaign narrative is 57 pages long and covers the Crusader's operations from Constantinople to the Battle of Ascalon, a period of about 28 months.  As usual, Dr. Nicolle is generally effective in detailing the facts behind a historical incident, but he is unable to instill much drama or passion into a campaign that was clearly driven by intangible factors of willpower and zeal.  Indeed, on the objective level, the First Crusade should have failed due to poor logistics, poor knowledge of local conditions and insufficient military advantages over the indigenous forces.  One puzzling omission is why Dr. Nicolle rarely makes references to troop strengths or casualties in this account; for example, many accounts estimate that the Crusaders suffered about 4,000 casualties at the Battle of Dorylaeum - but why is that omitted here?  Without much reference to numbers (even estimates), the reader may not realize that the Crusaders lost about 70% of their troops in the course of these 28 months, or that they were usually outnumbered 3-1 or worse.<br />  Perhaps Dr. Nicolle's most interesting observations for modern readers is the author's assessment that the Crusades were initially met by apathy in the Arab world, which goes a long way toward explaining how such a poorly-planned military expedition could pierce so deeply into a sea of enemies.  Nicolle notes that, &quot;it took a long time to motivate a counter-jihad to mirror the enthusiasm of the Crusade,&quot; and that for several years after the end of the First Crusade, the Crusader conquests were held by only a handful of professional troops.  It is clearly amazing that neither the Turks nor Fatimids were able to annihilate such a tiny European force in their midst, and a force that did not receive substantial reinforcement for more than a decade.  It is interesting to contrast this protracted Arab apathy then, withtoday's Islamic fundamentalist portrayal of the Crusades as such a cathartic event.  Perhaps it might be useful for modern Islamic societies to remember that foreigners were only able to intervene militarily because of inter-Arab divisions (even in 1097, the Sunni-Shia split was an open wound) and foolish leadership.  In military terms, the Crusades should have been a non-event; the Fatimid navy dominated the eastern Mediterranean and the Seljuk Turks dominated central Turkey with a large, powerful army.  However the greatest result of the Crusades, as noted by Nicolle, was a Sunni Muslim revival that &quot;resulted in a hardening of attitudes to non-Muslims&quot; and &quot;less tolerance of Shi'a Muslims&quot;. We are still feeling the results of this revival to this day.today's Islamic fundamentalist portrayal of the Crusades as such a cathartic event.  Perhaps it might be useful for modern Islamic societies to remember that foreigners were only able to intervene militarily because of inter-Arab divisions (even in 1097, the Sunni-Shia split was an open wound) and foolish leadership.  In military terms, the Crusades should have been a non-event; the Fatimid navy dominated the eastern Mediterranean and the Seljuk Turks dominated central Turkey with a large, powerful army.  However the greatest result of the Crusades, as noted by Nicolle, was a Sunni Muslim revival that &quot;resulted in a hardening of attitudes to non-Muslims&quot; and &quot;less tolerance of Shi'a Muslims&quot;. We are still feeling the results of this revival to this day.	2003-11-22
972271:US	52533596	R24BWGKSV386IR	1841765414	830094476	New Vanguard 82: V-2 Ballistic Missile 1942-52	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Superb Synthesis of a Revolutionary Weapons Program	Once again, Stephen J. Zaloga delivers a handy summary of an important technical military subject in his Osprey Vanguard volume entitled, V-2 Ballistic Missile 1942-1952.  While Zaloga has only 44 pages in this format, he packs it full of information culled from the considerable literature on this subject, resulting in a superb synthesis.  Unlike other, longer works, Zaloga does not dwell overly long on the development aspects of the V-2 program, but devotes most of his summary to the operational use of this revolutionary weapon.<br />  V-2 Ballistic Missile 1942-1952 begins with an 11-page section on early German rocket development, but the bulk of the volume focuses on the organization and procedures of V-2 launch units.  Seven pages are spent on final German rocket designs, an analysis of the V-2 campaign, and a brief description of the post-war US and Soviet tests of captured V-2s.  The color plates, by Robert Calow, include: early German test rockets; the Wizernes missile bunker; camouflage schemes; a cross-section of the V-2; a mobile launch site; and a Feuerleitpanzer fire control vehicle.  Zaloga also provides several very handy appendices: A-4 missile manufacture (broken down by site and monthly production figures); V-2 targets; and Russian post-war production of V-2 derivatives. In addition, Zaloga provides an annotated bibliography, which includes Internet sites of interest.<br />  Zaloga sees the V-2 as a technical marvel that was simply not ready for prime time, or as he puts it, a case of &quot;too much too soon.&quot; The V-2 program cost about $2 billion - equivalent to the American Manhattan Project - but it delivered a weapon of very limited practical military value.  Indeed, the V-2 was a very fragile weapon, with many ruined by rough handling on the ground and even more disintegrating in flight.  Of 6,422 V-2s built, only 3,172 were launched and only about 37% fell near their intended targets.  Indeed, Zaloga notes that the Luftwaffe's V-1 program, while technically less sophisticated, was much more militarily significant since it was cheaper to build and more reliable.  Zaloga's description of the technical problems associated with the V-2's tricky liquid oxygen fuel and its limited guidance system are interesting, as well as his discussion of the gradual take-over of the V-2 program by the SS. There are also details about how Allied intelligence learned about the V-2 program, including recovery of parts from V-2 test crashes in Poland and Sweden.<br />  Zaloga's review of V-2 operations also provides insight into the difficulties of targeting mobile ballistic missile launchers, insights that are still useful today.  As happened during the &quot;Scud Hunt&quot; in 1991 during Desert Storm, Zaloga notes that the Allies in 1944 we forced for political reasons to devote about 25% of their tactical bombers to hunt V-2 sites that were hitting England.  Amazingly, despite complete Allied air superiority, the Germans were still able to launch V-2s from Holland against London as late as 27 March 1945.  However, due to the difficulty in detecting the launch sites and the impossibility of interception once launched, Zaloga notes that less Allied resources were devoted to deal with the V-2 than the V-1.  The other lesson to be digested from the V-2 experience is that ballistic missiles with high explosive warheads might be difficult to stop, but the damage that they can inflict is not comparable with what could be achieved with conventional, large-scale air attacks.'s V-1 program, while technically less sophisticated, was much more militarily significant since it was cheaper to build and more reliable.  Zaloga's description of the technical problems associated with the V-2's tricky liquid oxygen fuel and its limited guidance system are interesting, as well as his discussion of the gradual take-over of the V-2 program by the SS. There are also details about how Allied intelligence learned about the V-2 program, including recovery of parts from V-2 test crashes in Poland and Sweden.  <br />       Zaloga's review of V-2 operations also provides insight into the difficulties of targeting mobile ballistic missile launchers, insights that are still useful today.  As happened during the &quot;Scud Hunt&quot; in 1991 during Desert Storm, Zaloga notes that the Allies in 1944 we forced for political reasons to devote about 25% of their tactical bombers to hunt V-2 sites that were hitting England.  Amazingly, despite complete Allied air superiority, the Germans were still able to launch V-2s from Holland against London as late as 27 March 1945.  However, due to the difficulty in detecting the launch sites and the impossibility of interception once launched, Zaloga notes that less Allied resources were devoted to deal with the V-2 than the V-1.  The other lesson to be digested from the V-2 experience is that ballistic missiles with high explosive warheads might be difficult to stop, but the damage that they can inflict is not comparable with what could be achieved with conventional, large-scale air attacks.	2003-09-17
975880:US	52533596	R3N5GI5ZB6N02C	1841766461	210611803	The Maginot Line 1928-45	Books	3	19	22	N	N	Exposing the Myth	Osprey's Fortress #10, Maginot Line 1928-1945, goes a long way toward exposing the myth of the supposedly invincible defensive line built in the 1930s.  Although there have been a handful of other recent books on European fortifications, this volume by William Allcorn is a useful technical summary that corrects many misconceptions about the line.<br /> Allcorn begins with very short sections on the reasons why France decided to invest the Maginot Line and how the defenses were built, although there are no photographs from the construction period.  Fully half the volume deals with the structure of the Maginot Line and Allcorn spares no detail about the different types of ouvrages (&quot;works&quot;), interval forts and &quot;cloches&quot;  (armored cupolas).  Indeed, Allcorn gets a bit carried away in his technical descriptions and becomes rather tedious.  Unfortunately, Allcorn spends less effort on critical aspects of the Maginot Line, like where the key fortifications were actually located.  While Allcorn provides five maps (the general distribution of fortifications, the forts in northeast France, the forts on the Italian border, the Metz fortified region, and the German invasion), none are detailed enough to actually locate large forts like the Hackenberg.  Instead, Allcorn continually refers the reader to Michelin maps, which is rather a cop-out.  Also, a number of the illustrations, such as the generator room at Hackenberg, really don't tell the reader anything.<br /> The strength of Allcorn's account lies in exposing the myth of the Maginot Line for what it was not.  Indeed, Allcorn notes that the French kept many details of the Line secret even after the Second World War and the popular conception remained that it was a continuous line of monstrous forts.  The truth, as Allcorn demonstrates, was far more prosaic.  The Maginot Line was in fact, a series of large and small combat blocks, which were themselves mostly a series of smaller bunkers.  Allcorn has spent a great deal of time in what remains of the Line, and it is amazing to hear that the mighty Maginot Line only mounted 43 135mm howitzers and 138 elderly 75mm guns, as well as 162 other mortars and guns.  Few of the forts had garrisons of more than 200-300 men and while some of the larger forts had internal rail lines for moving ammunition, there was no underground rail line connecting all the forts.  Furthermore, living conditions were very poor inside the Line and the garrisons generally lived in nearby barracks except during war.  Allcorn also provides details on the fortifications built along the Italian border and on Corsica, all of which were part of the Maginot program.<br /> Allcorn's chapters on the Maginot Line in the Second World War and after do reveal some new details, but they are essentially weak.  During the 1940 Blitzkrieg, the Germans were only able to seize a few of the smaller forts, but the bunkers built along the Rhine were all quickly knocked out by an ingenuous effort utilizing numerous 88mm flak guns. Allcorn concludes that the Maginot Line did what it was designed to do - deter and impede a German invasion of northeast France - but that the failure of French leadership to provide adequate air and armor units to prevent a German breakthrough elsewhere invalidated the whole program.  While skimming over the German occupation of the Line, Allcorn does provide some interesting details about the Line after the war.<br />  Typically, the Maginot Line is derided as a complete waste of money that failed to save France from invasion.  If only the money had been spent on tanks and aircraft, the French might have survived the Blitzkrieg, goes the popular refrain.  However, Allcorn notes that the Maginot Line, built between 1928-1936 cost about five billion francs (about $100 million in then dollars).  Unfortunately, Allcorn fails to note that the French defense budget in the mid-1930s was about $900 million (45 billion francs) per year; therefore,the Maginot Line cost only about 1.3% of the French defense budget for eight years.  Apparently, if France lacked money for mobile forces it was not due to the Maginot Line.  Given the apparent low cost and apparent effectiveness of the fortifications that were built, it is hard to understand the argument that France lacked the money to extend the line across the entire French border.  Indeed, if there was waste in the French military establishment, it was more likely due to the navy, which had a large number of expensive but obsolescent battleships.  Perhaps the real argument should be, if only the French had scrapped their battle fleet (which was irrelevant to the threat of German invasion anyway), they might have gained the funds, personnel, armament and steel to complete the Maginot Line across the entire border.  Is there anyone who thinks that Rommel or Guderian could have crossed the Meuse so easily in the face of Maginot-type fortifications?ore, the Maginot Line cost only about 1.3% of the French defense budget for eight years.  Apparently, if France lacked money for mobile forces it was not due to the Maginot Line.  Given the apparent low cost and apparent effectiveness of the fortifications that were built, it is hard to understand the argument that France lacked the money to extend the line across the entire French border.  Indeed, if there was waste in the French military establishment, it was more likely due to the navy, which had a large number of expensive but obsolescent battleships.  Perhaps the real argument should be, if only the French had scrapped their battle fleet (which was irrelevant to the threat of German invasion anyway), they might have gained the funds, personnel, armament and steel to complete the Maginot Line across the entire border.  Is there anyone who thinks that Rommel or Guderian could have crossed the Meuse so easily in the face of Maginot-type fortifications?	2003-09-14
977149:US	52533596	RID7G47WTQ7E2	0850529549	254183900	Operation Epsom (Battleground Europe Normandy)	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	An Excellent Study of a Corps Attack	Operation Epsom, by veteran Battleground Europe author Tim Saunders, is the first in five new volumes covering the British attempts to break out of the Normandy beachhead in 1944. Given the far greater attention given to D-Day itself and the American breakout in Operation Cobra, these volumes help to fill in a number of details about the relatively neglected British operations in Normandy.  Saunders volume on Epsom, a British offensive that occurred during 26-30 June 1944, is as well written as his previous volumes for the series.  Indeed, Operation Epsom is a solid case history of a typical British corps-size attack in 1944.<br /> Saunders does a superb job in his introductory chapter sketching the background to the battle, including the arrival of the British VIII Corps and the German SS Hitler Jugend division and the genesis of the plan to envelop the city of Caen from the west.  The author uses three 1:50,000 scale maps to depict the four phases of Epsom and its objectives, as well as German dispositions.  With these maps and a tight narrative, Saunders takes the reader by the hand in outlining what Operation Epsom was intended to achieve and conditions on the ground.  The author then uses five narrative chapters, each detailing one day in the operation.  A brief epilogue follows, as well as notes on touring the battlefield, a table of ranks and a very detailed British order of battle.  Unfortunately, the author does not provide a German order of battle or a bibliography.  The photographs throughout the volume are excellent and most have not been published in other works.<br /> For Operation Epsom, the British massed the three divisions of VIII Corps (11th Armored, 15th Scottish and 43rd Wessex) under the desert veteran General O'Connor against the thinly spread SS Hitler Jugend division.  With over 700 artillery pieces firing in support, complete control of the air and a 3-1 advantage in armor, the British offensive should easily have smashed through the over-stretched German lines.  However, the British had not anticipated German resiliency or adaptability.  Reading Saunders' narrative, it is apparent that the British conducted very little pre-battle reconnaissance and smugly believed that the German line was a mere crust defense.  While the initial infantry attack succeeded on the morning of 26 June, it took much longer than anticipated to clear out the handful of front-line German infantry companies.  Consequently, the commitment of British armor was delayed and when it did occur, it ran smack into the German armor reserve (which included six Tiger tanks).  Rather quickly, the British found themselves in an attritional battle that threatened to derail all their plans.<br /> However, the Germans made mistakes, too.  On the second day of the offensive, a small British armor-infantry force found a small gap in the newly formed German line and boldly moved forward to seize a key bridge over the Odon River.  For reasons not entirely clear, the Germans dithered at this key moment - apparently due to the fog of war - allowing the British to build up a division-size force on the Odon bridgehead.  Indeed, the only substantial German reaction was an amateurish attack by unsupported armor into one of the British-held towns; the British infantry had a field day, destroying five of the formidable Panther tanks at close range.  On the third day of the offensive, the British got another lucky break when they were able to seize the vital Hill 112 that overlooked Caen; the Germans had failed to garrison this key piece of terrain.<br /> Unfortunately for the British, the Germans began to recover from their string of mistakes and were able to mass the 2nd SS Panzer Corps for a major counterattack.  Furthermore, the British offensive had formed a long, but narrow salient into the German lines; the interior of the salient was under constant German artillery fire and the road network was in a mess.  Saunders makes clear that the decisive factor that saved the British ground forces was their superb artillery, which broke up most of the German armored counterattacks.  Although the German counteroffensive - designed to cut off the British salient and annihilate VIII Corps - failed, it did force the British to end the offensive and switch to the defense.  Much of the hard-won terrain, like Hill 112, was abandoned in order to shorten the line.<br /> Operation Epsom cost both sides heavily, although Saunders is vague about losses.  The British had entered the battle with a number of deficiencies, particularly in armor-infantry cooperation and close air support, but these improved due to lessons learned in Epsom.  If Saunders' account - which is an excellent corps-level study - teaches anything, it is that opportunities on the battlefield are fleeting and that agility and flexibility are key virtues for commanders.e factor that saved the British ground forces was their superb artillery, which broke up most of the German armored counterattacks.  Although the German counteroffensive - designed to cut off the British salient and annihilate VIII Corps - failed, it did force the British to end the offensive and switch to the defense.  Much of the hard-won terrain, like Hill 112, was abandoned in order to shorten the line.<br /> Operation Epsom cost both sides heavily, although Saunders is vague about losses.  The British had entered the battle with a number of deficiencies, particularly in armor-infantry cooperation and close air support, but these improved due to lessons learned in Epsom.  If Saunders' account - which is an excellent corps-level study - teaches anything, it is that opportunities on the battlefield are fleeting and that agility and flexibility are key virtues for commanders.	2003-09-13
977587:US	52533596	R243B7QFI095A9	0850529123	533984083	Operation Bluecoat (Battleground Europe Normandy)	Books	3	14	15	N	Y	Good on Tactical, but not Operational Level	Operation Bluecoat is surely one of the more obscure actions of the Second World War, but it is fortunate for historians that Pen & Sword has decided to address this heretofore-neglected subject as part of five new volumes on the British campaigns in Normandy in 1944. In his first volume for the Battleground Europe series, Ian Daglish describes the British VIII Corps offensive on 30 July-6 August 1944 that almost achieved a dramatic breakthrough of the German front.  Overall, the volume is a good first effort, although not as well put together as other volumes in the series by Tim Saunders, Tim Kilvert-Jones or Carl Shilleto.  Readers should note two immediate inaccuracies with the volume: first, that the subtitle \\"British 3rd Infantry Division/27th Armored Brigade\\" actually refers to the volume on \\"Sword Beach,\\" since neither unit participated in Bluecoat.  A second inaccuracy is the other subtitle - \\"the British Armored Breakout\\" - that did not, in fact, occur.  By the end of Bluecoat, the German line had bent, but not broken.<br /> The first two chapters in the volume deal with the development of an operation stalemate in Normandy and the genesis of the \\"Bluecoat\\" plan.  It is clear from Daglish's narrative that while \\"Bluecoat\\" was conceived by Field Marshal Montgomery, that the plan was seen as an unwanted stepchild, since it did not fit into his campaign scheme of set-piece battles with predictable results (indeed, Montgomery virtually ignored the operation in his post-war memoirs).  The major problem with Daglish's narrative of the operation - and it runs throughout the volume - is his failure to put Bluecoat in its proper operational perspective.  While Daglish briefly discusses the American Operation Cobra, he fails to hammer home that Bluecoat was designed as a supporting effort to help the left flank of the main effort.  American movements on the flanks of Bluecoat are only discussed in terms of inter-Allied cooperation problems, not in terms of any over-arching plan.  In essence, Bluecoat was not a stand-alone operation, but it is almost presented that way, particularly due to the absence of any maps that depict American movements.  Note also, that Daglish fails to provide an order of battle for either side.<br /> The bulk of the volume consists of six narrative chapters that break Operation Bluecoat down, day by day.  It is clear from this account that the British Army had begun to learn a few things after eight weeks in Normandy, and the early stages of Bluecoat demonstrated that the British had become masters of the set-piece battle.  Unlike earlier attacks where the British had attacked elite SS units head-on, in Bluecoat Montgomery had deliberately shifted VIII Corps to attack one of the weakest units in the German line, the burnt-out 326th Infantry Division. Daglish notes that VIII Corps began its attack with only 200 infantrymen on an 800 meter-wide penetration front, with no artillery preparation.  Tanks and engineers rapidly moved in to clear the German minefields and clear out the front-line positions.  Amazingly, the Germans had not detected the arrival of large British forces on this quiet front almost a week earlier, and were caught by surprise.  In fact, the Germans had very few anti-tank guns on this sector and had relied on the hedgerow terrain to deter an armored attack.  The result was a British breakthrough of five miles on the first day and for once, the British boldly pushed forward armor units to seize key terrain in the German rear.  Incredibly, the German army-level command did not appreciate the depth of the British penetration and was more focused on the American operations to the west.<br /> Daglish has a knack for describing small unit actions, such as the German counterattack on Hill 226 on 30 July 1944.  Three German Jagdpanther assault guns attacked the 40-odd Churchill tanks of the Scots Guards that were atop the hill and promptly knocked out 13 tanks, with no loss to themselves.  Daglish's description of the seize of \\"Dickie's Bridge\\" by a five-man patrol of the Household Cavalry is also exciting reading, as well as highlighting the poor state of German command control by late July 1944.  The Germans had made the classic mistake of putting their inter-corps boundary running through a forest, and then neither corps put any forces in place to block the road that ran through the forest.  In short order, the British shoved part of the 11th Armored Division down this forest road, deep into the German lines.  One British armored unit reached the outskirts of the town of Vire, a critical road hub, which the Germans had foolishly left unguarded.  Thus, by the second day of battle, the British supporting offensive was beginning to offer the possibility of a major breakthrough.<br /> Unfortunately for the British, the boldness that characterized their set-piece operations disappeared once the battle became more fluid.  British armor commanders became reluctant to push deeply into the unknown, particularly with so many bypassed German units in their rear.  The follow-on British armored unit, the Guards Armored Division, was particularly poor in armor-infantry cooperation (I was amazed by several quotes from field grade officers from that unit, to the effect that the Guards had never conducted joint armor-infantry training in England) and this renowned unit fumbled its way forward.  Initially, the Germans failed to appreciate the extent of the British success, but once it became obvious that the VIII Corps was threatening to take Vire and achieve a real breakthrough, major resources were diverted to stop Operation Bluecoat in its tracks.  The Germans committed the bulk of three SS Panzer Divisions to blunt the British attack.  As usual, the British superiority in artillery and air power forced the Germans into a piece-meal counterattack, but the Germans were able to inflict substantial losses and save Vire.  Confronted with large SS units to his front, Montgomery was forced to switch to the defensive on this front, thus ending Bluecoat without a breakthrough.Daglish's description of the seize of \\"Dickie's Bridge\\" by a five-man patrol of the Household Cavalry is also exciting reading, as well as highlighting the poor state of German command control by late July 1944.  The Germans had made the classic mistake of putting their inter-corps boundary running through a forest, and then neither corps put any forces in place to block the road that ran through the forest.  In short order, the British shoved part of the 11th Armored Division down this forest road, deep into the German lines.  One British armored unit reached the outskirts of the town of Vire, a critical road hub, which the Germans had foolishly left unguarded.  Thus, by the second day of battle, the British supporting offensive was beginning to offer the possibility of a major breakthrough.  <br /> Unfortunately for the British, the boldness that characterized their set-piece operations disappeared once the battle became more fluid.  British armor commanders became reluctant to push deeply into the unknown, particularly with so many bypassed German units in their rear.  The follow-on British armored unit, the Guards Armored Division, was particularly poor in armor-infantry cooperation (I was amazed by several quotes from field grade officers from that unit, to the effect that the Guards had never conducted joint armor-infantry training in England) and this renowned unit fumbled its way forward.  Initially, the Germans failed to appreciate the extent of the British success, but once it became obvious that the VIII Corps was threatening to take Vire and achieve a real breakthrough, major resources were diverted to stop Operation Bluecoat in its tracks.  The Germans committed the bulk of three SS Panzer Divisions to blunt the British attack.  As usual, the British superiority in artillery and air power forced the Germans into a piece-meal counterattack, but the Germans were able to inflict substantial losses and save Vire.  Confronted with large SS units to his front, Montgomery was forced to switch to the defensive on this front, thus ending Bluecoat without a breakthrough.	2003-09-13
983152:US	52533596	R2242L7B00AZ4V	1841765236	557639376	Essential Histories 57: Genghis Khan & the Mongol Conquests 1190-1400	Books	3	25	26	N	Y	Not Turnbull's Best Effort	Although I am a fan of Stephen Turnbull's earlier works on the Japanese Samurai and the Teutonic Knights, there is something basically wrong with his latest volume for Osprey's Essential Histories on the Mongols.  First, Genghis Khan himself is only the discussed in about 10% of the volume and Turnbull certainly provides no fresh insights on this famed leader.  Indeed, basic questions such as whether or not Genghis Khan should be considered as one of the great captains of history are never raised.  Second, Turnbull bounces around chronologically too much; he is continually discussing one campaign, then reverting to discuss an earlier campaign in another area.  Third, Turnbull focuses strictly on the military aspects of the Mongol Conquests (virtually ignoring the economic, social and political aspects), then actually tells us very little about the actual military aspects.  Fourth, the actual period of Mongol conquests was in 1206-1294, not 1190-1400, and the bulk of the narrative actually focuses on a 60-year period.  Finally, Turnbull's entire overly simplistic hypothesis is that the Mongol's success was due to their amazing ability to adapt to new circumstances and learn new military techniques.  However, Turnbull concludes that the Mongol conquests ended because of their failures to adapt to the harsh theater of war in Southeast Asia and their gradual conversion from steppe nomads to urban dwellers.  Huh?  They won because they were adaptable, but they eventually lost because they adapted in the cities but not the jungles.  A look at the barren bibliography, with only four non-Turnbull sources, clearly indicates a half-hearted effort on the author's part.<br /> Genghis Khan &amp; the Mongol Conquests 1190-1400 begins with a short introduction and chronology, followed by a brief section on the rise of the Mongols.  The three-page section on the Mongols and their adversaries is totally inadequate, although Turnbull strives to make the point that the Mongol armies were not immune to logistical constraints.  The outbreak of war section covers the Khwarazm campaign in 1219-1221and the Afghan War, but then this is followed by the fighting in China in 1211-1234, making this narrative difficult to follow chronologically.  Turnbull's 44-page narrative on the main Mongols campaigns of 1211-1281 is the best part of the volume, particularly the campaigns in Korea/Japan and the Mideast.  Portrait of a soldier showcases the Mongol general Subadai, but also includes more campaign detail.  The section on how the war ended focuses on the jungle campaigns in Burma, Vietnam and Java where the Mongol advance finally petered out.  There are eight maps supporting the narrative: the Mongol Empire 1190-1400; the conquest of the Khwarazm Empire; Mongol conquests in Korea and China; the Mongol invasion of Europe; the Battle of Mohi 1241; Mongol campaigns in the Mideast; the Mongol invasions of Japan; and the Mongol campaigns in Southeast Asia.<br /> There are a number of interesting episodes in the long Mongol wars that Turnbull highlights, such as the five-year long siege of Xiangyang in China and the odd situation of Crusaders, Mamluks and Mongols facing each other in the Mideast in 1260.  Turnbull is particularly adept in demonstrating how the steppe-born Mongols quickly learned siege warfare techniques and naval expeditionary warfare.  Yet while Turnbull succeeds in praising Mongol tactical adaptability, he fails on the larger issues, such as explaining the Mongol drive for conquest.  How did an obscure steppe people, never great in numbers, conquer the greatest land empire in history?  Why were the Mongol enemies so unable to offer effective resistance - why couldn't they learn or adapt?  Due to the operational-level focus of Turnbull's summary, this volume will not be useful for readers asking questions on the macro-level of geo-politics.  Furthermore, the &quot;adaptability&quot; thesis presented for Mongol successes by Turnbull does not really answer the question of why this whirlwind phenomenon was able to arise out of nowhere and conquer the bulk of Eurasia in a lifetime.  While the &quot;adaptability&quot; hypothesis is certainly better than the old &quot;Mongol horde&quot; claptrap, it probably only addresses the Mongol side of the equation (just as suggesting superior armored warfare doctrine explains German success in 1940, but it does not explain French collapse).eally answer the question of why this whirlwind phenomenon was able to arise out of nowhere and conquer the bulk of Eurasia in a lifetime.  While the &quot;adaptability&quot; hypothesis is certainly better than the old &quot;Mongol horde&quot; claptrap, it probably only addresses the Mongol side of the equation (just as suggesting superior armored warfare doctrine explains German success in 1940, but it does not explain French collapse).	2003-09-08
997060:US	52533596	R122EQ0C66AB11	1841766305	260251634	New Vanguard 79: American Heavy Frigates 1794-1826	Books	3	25	28	N	Y	OK but No Value-Added Material	The role of the three &quot;heavy&quot; 44 gun frigates - USS Constitution, United States and President - is crucial in early American naval history.  Indeed, lacking a large battle fleet, the heavy frigate was the backbone of the US Navy until the onset of the Civil War.  Mark Lardas, with degrees in naval architecture and marine engineering, is well qualified to outline the design, development and history of America's heavy frigates. Overall, the volume is adequate and gives a good perspective on the role of these sailing warships.<br /> Lardas has sections on the design and development, operational history and the ships themselves.  The American frigates in this period are classified as the three original Humphreys' frigates (built 1794-1800), the three war expansion frigates (built 1813-1815), the nine &quot;gradual increase&quot; frigates (built 1819-1861) and the three final frigates (1813-1842).  The color plates depict the sail plan of the USS United States; the USS Constitution evading the British fleet; the gun deck on a Humphreys' frigate; a cutaway diagram of the USS Constitution; the mast arrangement of the USS Brandywine; the capture of the USS President; and flags and weapons.<br /> American Heavy Frigates 1794-1826 will give readers a basic overview of most of the ships in this period, although some readers will wonder why this book excludes 36-gun frigates like the USS Constellation.  Why not just cover all US frigates in the period 1798-1815, rather than covering a number of warships, such as the USS Hudson, that were historical non-entities.  I was also disappointed that the author failed to provide any comparative data on the naval guns mounted on these frigates, since superior firepower was one of their main advantages he notes.  Nor is there any information on tactics, training, cost of construction, materials used, maintenance (how often did they need their copper plates replaced?), etc.  Thus, the author provides a bare-bones summary of the ships, without much else to add value.  Quite frankly, much of the material here is merely summarized from other secondary sources, with little sign of fresh research.ships, without much else to add value.  Quite frankly, much of the material here is merely summarized from other secondary sources, with little sign of fresh research.	2003-08-27
997766:US	52533596	RTSLD1K9PA0YV	1841763675	80527757	Campaign 100: D-Day 1944 (1) Omaha Beach	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	A Fresh Look at a Well-Known Subject	The Battle of Gettysburg and the landings on Omaha Beach are two of the most covered subjects in American military history, and readers should approach any new books on these subjects with a great deal of caution.  ...  As usual, Zaloga does not disappoint and he is able to present a few facets of a well-known operation that are ignored in other accounts.  In fact, Zaloga did considerable research at the National Archives and the Army War College library, which enabled him to do far more than merely summarize secondary sources.<br /> Omaha Beach starts with a well-written introduction and chronology, followed by sections on opposing commanders (much better than in previous Zaloga volumes), and a 16-page section on opposing plans that is very interesting.  The 6-page section on opposing armies is decent, although perhaps not as in-depth as some readers would like.  The 45-page campaign narrative is well written and focuses primarily on the events on D-Day itself, devoting only a few pages to the expansion of the beachhead in the week after the invasion.  Zaloga also includes a section on the battlefield today and an annotated bibliography.  The maps are quite good in this volume and include four 2-D maps (German forces around Omaha, the assault landing plan, V Corps D-Day objectives, and V Corps D-Day operations) and three 3-D Bird's Eye View maps (the 16th RCT sector, the 116th RCT sector and Point du Hoc).  The three color battle scenes by Howard Gerrard are: landings on Easy Red Beach, Dog Red Beach and Rangers at Point du Hoc.  In addition, Zaloga has combed the NARA archives for some photographs that go beyond the standard D-Day images.  Indeed, Zaloga consistently demonstrates that a good author can make even a well-worn topic seem fresh.<br /> Zaloga clarifies a number of interesting but obscure points about D-Day.  While several sources note Major General Corlett's suggestion to use amtracs as in the Pacific invasions, few follow this tantalizing lead.  Zaloga notes that, \\"in fact, the US Army had shipped over 300 amtracs to Europe in 1944, but the lack of demand for their use in the Overlord plan meant that they were reserved for Operation Swordhilt, a contingency operation in which Patton's uncommitted Third Army was intended to reinforce Overlord in the event of failure at one of the beaches.\\"  Zaloga, the armor expert, also adds a great deal of clarity to the role of US tanks on Omaha Beach.  Most sources tend to suggest that the majority of the armor foundered in the English Channel and thus the role of tanks was negligible.  Zaloga points out that both DD and tanks with wading trunks were used, as well as Sherman dozer tanks.  Although many of the DD tanks sank, enough of the tanks with wading trunks made it ashore to play a decisive role in silencing the German resistance nests. Furthermore, the popular idea that arrogant American commanders spurned the use of Britain's specialized armored engineer tanks is disputed by Zaloga; the V Corps did in fact request over 100 British \\"funnies,\\" but British industry could not meet the demand in time for D-Day.  Zaloga also does a fine job pointing out just how crucial naval support was in suppressing enemy defenses and making up for the lack of heavy weapons ashore.  On the other hand, Zaloga notes that the Americans had not trained to employ close air support and had included no air liaison teams in the invasion force.<br /> For the Germans, Zaloga notes that the shortage of artillery ammunition was a critical deficiency - by the evening of D-Day most of the nearby guns had exhausted their basic loads. Zaloga also does a great job detailing just how thick the fog of war was on Omaha on June 6, 1944 and how this greatly affected the command of control of both sides.  One of the most interesting tidbits that Zaloga presents is a post-invasion study by the British that notes that the Germans had four times as many machineguns and three times as many anti-tank guns covering the Omaha Beach area compared to the defenses on the other beaches.  The tidal conditions were also worse and the prepatory bombardment was much shorter than the British beaches.  Finally, Zaloga notes that there has been a recent tendency to exaggerate the casualties on Omaha Beach - about 2,000 - and he places it in perspective by noting that the US Army suffered about 1,200 casualties every day in the weeks of hedgerow fighting that followed D-Day.the Omaha Beach area compared to the defenses on the other beaches.  The tidal conditions were also worse and the prepatory bombardment was much shorter than the British beaches.  Finally, Zaloga notes that there has been a recent tendency to exaggerate the casualties on Omaha Beach - about 2,000 - and he places it in perspective by noting that the US Army suffered about 1,200 casualties every day in the weeks of hedgerow fighting that followed D-Day.	2003-08-27
1001063:US	52533596	R30CDHXKY2SS5H	0891418148	358580136	Death Traps: The Survival of an American Armored Division in World War II	Books	1	174	259	N	N	A Faulty Indictment	Death Traps, a poorly written memoir by Belton Y. Cooper promises much, but delivers little.  Cooper served as an ordnance lieutenant in the 3rd Armor Division (3AD), acting as a liaison officer between the Combat Commands and the Division Maintenance Battalion.  One of the first rules of memoir writing is to focus on events of which the author has direct experience; instead, Cooper is constantly discussing high-level or distant events of which he was not a witness.  Consequently, the book is riddled with mistakes and falsehoods.  Furthermore, the author puts his main effort into an over-simplified indictment of the American Sherman tank as a \\"death trap\\" that delayed eventual victory in the Second World War.<br /> Cooper's indictment of the Sherman tank's inferiority compared to the heavier German Panther and Tiger tanks ignores many important facts.  First, the Sherman was designed for mass production and this allowed the Allies to enjoy a 4-1 superiority in numbers.  Second, fewer than 50% of the German armor in France in 1944 were Tigers or Panthers.  Third, if the German tanks were as deadly as Cooper claims, why did the Germans lose 1,500 tanks in Normandy against about 1,700 Allied tanks?  Indeed, Cooper claims that the 3AD lost 648 Shermans in the war, but the division claimed to have destroyed 1,023 German tanks.  Clearly, there was no great kill-ratio in the German favor, and the Allies could afford to trade tank-for-tank.  Finally, if the Sherman was such a \\"death trap,\\" why did the US Army use it later in Korea or the Israelis use it in the 1967 War?<br /> There are a great number of mistakes in this book, beginning with Cooper's ridiculous claim that General Patton was responsible for delaying the M-26 heavy tank program.  Cooper claims that Patton was at a tank demonstration at Tidworth Downs in January 1944 and that,  \\"Patton...insisted that we should downgrade the M26 heavy tank and concentrate on the M4....This turned out to be one of the most disastrous decisions of World War II, and its effect upon the upcoming battle for Western Europe was catastrophic.\\"  Actually, Patton was in Algiers and Italy for most of January 1944, only arriving back in Scotland on 26 January.  In fact, it was General McNair of Ground Forces Command, back in the US, who delayed the M-26 program.  Cooper sees the M-26 as the panacea for all the US Army's shortcomings and even claims that the American offensive in November 1944,  \\"would have succeeded if we had had the Pershing\\" and the resulting American breakthrough could have forestalled the Ardennes offensive and \\"the war could have ended five months earlier.\\"  This is just sheer nonsense and ignores the logistical and weather problems that doomed that offensive.<br /> Cooper continually discusses events he did not witness and in fact, only about one-third of the book covers his own experiences.  Instead of discussing maintenance operations in detail, Cooper opines about everything from U-Boats, to V-2 rockets, to strategic bombing, to the July 20th Plot.  He falsely states that, \\"the British had secured a model of the German enigma decoding machine and were using it to decode German messages.\\"  Cooper writes, \\"not until July 25, the night before the Saint-Lo breakthrough, was Rommel able to secure the release of the panzer divisions in reserve in the Pas de Clais area.\\"  Actually, Rommel was wounded on 17 July and in a hospital on July 25th.  In another chapter, Cooper writes that, \\"the British had bombed the city [Darmstadt] during a night raid in February,\\" and \\"more than 40,000 died in this inferno.\\"  Actually, the RAF bombed Darmstadt on 11 September 1944, killing about 12,000.  Dresden was bombed on 13 February 1945, killing about 40,000.  Obviously, the author has confused cities and raids.<br /> Even where Cooper is dealing with issues closer to his own experience, he tends to exaggerate or deliver incorrect information.  He describes the VII Corps as an \\"armor corps,\\" butit was not.  Cooper's description of a counterattack by the German Panzer Lehr division is totally inaccurate; he states that, \\"July 11 became one of the most critical in the battle of Normandy.  The Germans launched a massive counterattack along the Saint-Lo- Saint Jean de Daye highway...\\" In fact, one under strength German division attacked three US divisions.  The Americans lost only 100 casualties, while the Germans suffered 25% armor losses.  The Official history calls this attack \\"a dismal and costly failure.\\"  Cooper wrote that, \\"Combat Command A...put up a terrific defense in the vicinity of Saint Jean de Daye...\\" but actually it was CCB, since CCA in reserve.  On another occasion, Cooper claims that his unit received the 60,000th Sherman produced, but official records indicate that only 49,234 of all models were built.  Cooper claims that the 3rd Armored Division had 17,000 soldiers, but the authorized strength was about 14,500.  Can't this guy remember anything correctly?<br /> Cooper's description of the death of MGN Rose is virtually plagiarized from the official history and a number of articles in ARMOR magazine in the past decade reveal that Rose was an extreme risk-taker.  Reading \\"Death Traps,\\" the uninitiated may actually believe that the US Army was badly defeated in Europe.  Cooper even claims that, as the 3rd Armored Division approached the Elbe River in the last days of the war that, \\"with our division spread out and opposed by three new divisions, our situation was critical.\\"  If anybody's situation was critical in April 1945, it was Germany's.  Actually, the 3rd Armored Division had one key weakness not noted by Cooper, namely the shortage of infantry.  The division had a poor ratio of 2:1 between tanks and infantry, and this deficiency often required the 3AD to borrow an infantry RCT from other units.  While the much-maligned Sherman tank was far from perfect, it did the job it was designed for, a fact that is missed by this author.it was not.  Cooper's description of a counterattack by the German Panzer Lehr division is totally inaccurate; he states that, \\"July 11 became one of the most critical in the battle of Normandy.  The Germans launched a massive counterattack along the Saint-Lo- Saint Jean de Daye highway...\\" In fact, one under strength German division attacked three US divisions.  The Americans lost only 100 casualties, while the Germans suffered 25% armor losses.  The Official history calls this attack \\"a dismal and costly failure.\\"  Cooper wrote that, \\"Combat Command A...put up a terrific defense in the vicinity of Saint Jean de Daye...\\" but actually it was CCB, since CCA in reserve.  On another occasion, Cooper claims that his unit received the 60,000th Sherman produced, but official records indicate that only 49,234 of all models were built.  Cooper claims that the 3rd Armored Division had 17,000 soldiers, but the authorized strength was about 14,500.  Can't this guy remember anything correctly?<br /> Cooper's description of the death of MGN Rose is virtually plagiarized from the official history and a number of articles in ARMOR magazine in the past decade reveal that Rose was an extreme risk-taker.  Reading \\"Death Traps,\\" the uninitiated may actually believe that the US Army was badly defeated in Europe.  Cooper even claims that, as the 3rd Armored Division approached the Elbe River in the last days of the war that, \\"with our division spread out and opposed by three new divisions, our situation was critical.\\"  If anybody's situation was critical in April 1945, it was Germany's.  Actually, the 3rd Armored Division had one key weakness not noted by Cooper, namely the shortage of infantry.  The division had a poor ratio of 2:1 between tanks and infantry, and this deficiency often required the 3AD to borrow an infantry RCT from other units.  While the much-maligned Sherman tank was far from perfect, it did the job it was designed for, a fact that is missed by this author.r.	2003-08-24
1006402:US	52533596	R2ZEU502G60G2	184176454X	503011978	French Napoleonic Infantryman 1803-15	Books	2	8	12	N	N	...	Osprey's Warrior series is designed to give &quot;insights into the daily lives of history's fighting men and women, past and present, detailing their motivation, training, tactics, weaponry and experiences.&quot;  In Warrior #57, French Napoleonic Infantryman 1803-1815, author Terry Crowdy presents a smattering of information on training, tactics and weaponry and ignores motivation.  Indeed, the vast majority of this volume is comprised of very large chunks of French soldier memoirs, strung together.  To say that this volume is a disappointment is an understatement, for it clearly fails to deliver anything fresh, original or insightful.  Of all the Osprey volumes on Napoleon's army, this one is easily the worst.<br /> The volume begins with a short introduction and then begins an 11-page section on &quot;from conscription to the depot&quot; and this is the only halfway decent section.  Brief sections then cover life in camp, and life on campaign.  The &quot;day of battle&quot; is a very tediously constructed 19-page section that is obviously designed as the core of this volume.  Crowdy strings together eyewitness accounts of a battle that is never named and no maps are given to put the action in perspectives.  Furthermore, Crowdy's over-use of first-person accounts is marred by a lack of proper introductions, since he does not always identify what unit these persons were in (or when, since it is apparent that not all served at the same time).  The result is an incomprehensible bouillabaisse that fails to describe much of anything.  Final sections cover &quot;aftermath&quot; and &quot;going home.&quot;  Even the color plates, normally the centerpiece of any Osprey volume, are a disappointment.  The first shows a Voltigeur with the rare 1806 white uniform - a uniform that Crowdy notes was abandoned as soon as Napoleon saw it.  Why waste space on a uniform that was never worn on campaign, when you could depict voltigeurs as they actually were?  Other plates show French recruits drilling, French recruits playing cards in barracks (very insightful!), French troops fraternizing, one tactical illustration of a skirmisher company, a reprisal in Spain, the Marie-Louises, and a line of French infantry in 1815.<br /> This volume on the French infantryman also fails to contain many of the sections one normally expects in the Warrior series.  Crowdy fails to mention pay, promotions, awards, motivation, or leadership (except for small tidbits about the role of corporals).  This would have been an excellent volume to examine the Grand Arm&eacute;e at the tactical level, focusing on how companies and battalions were built, maintained and fought.  There is also very little in this volume about tactical doctrine (line, column, order mixed) or how different types of infantry (light, line, grenadier) functioned.  Nor does the author make any real effort to discuss the leadership roles of company-grade officers or NCOs.  Essentially, this volume fails to explain why the French infantry were so successful in 1805-1809 and so unsuccessful in 1810-1815.<br /> ...nch recruits drilling, French recruits playing cards in barracks (very insightful!), French troops fraternizing, one tactical illustration of a skirmisher company, a reprisal in Spain, the Marie-Louises, and a line of French infantry in 1815.  <br /> This volume on the French infantryman also fails to contain many of the sections one normally expects in the Warrior series.  Crowdy fails to mention pay, promotions, awards, motivation, or leadership (except for small tidbits about the role of corporals).  This would have been an excellent volume to examine the Grand Armée at the tactical level, focusing on how companies and battalions were built, maintained and fought.  There is also very little in this volume about tactical doctrine (line, column, order mixed) or how different types of infantry (light, line, grenadier) functioned.  Nor does the author make any real effort to discuss the leadership roles of company-grade officers or NCOs.  Essentially, this volume fails to explain why the French infantry were so successful in 1805-1809 and so unsuccessful in 1810-1815.  <br /> ...	2003-08-19
1006740:US	52533596	R1JK5QBHVO6OR7	1841766003	306094905	Roman Legionary 58 BC-AD 69	Books	4	54	56	N	N	A Fine Summary	Scottish academic Dr. Ross Cowan has put together an impressive summary of the Augustan-era legionary in Osprey's Warrior #71, entitled Roman Legionary 58BC - AD 69.  Unlike previous Osprey titles on the Roman Army that tend to recycle old information, Dr. Cowan has been able to benefit from the recent discovery of the site of the Teutoberg Forest battlefield in Germany and subsequent archeological discoveries.  Furthermore, while Cowan relies heavily on the standard literary sources - Caesar, Tacitus, Polybius and Josephus - he is able to incorporate some less-used sources as well (e.g. Velleius Paterculus).  Overall, this is a fine summary for a young scholar and one that is able to add value to existing collections on the Roman military.<br /> Roman Legionary 58BC - AD 69 consists of a short introduction/chronology, a detailed chart of the 28 Augustan legions, and short sections on the organization/size/command of the legion; enlistment; training; length of service; pay; leadership and morale; belief and belonging; decorations and punishments; dress and appearance; equipment; and daily life on campaign.  The section on battle is 12-pages long and discusses more tactical issues.  The author also includes a list of relevant websites (thank you!), a glossary of Roman terms (some of which are rather uncommon) and a bibliography.  The eight color plates by Angus McBride are excellent and depict: a veteran legionary of Legio XII in 32 BC; a Roman press-gang in Ostia; a Roman squad on the march; four legionary fighting techniques; camp construction; the Battle of Teutoburg Forest in AD 9; a century in battle order; and a legionary in AD 43.  The text is also supported by a number of photographs of Roman military artifacts recently excavated in Germany since 1999.<br /> Dr. Cowan does a fine job describing the path of the Roman recruit from enlistment, through training and assignment to a legion.  One aspect of the Roman soldier that I had not seen emphasized before was the importance of the balteus (belt) and caligae (military boots).  Cowan notes that, \\"the removal of the balteus stripped a soldier of his military identity; it was confiscated if a soldier was dishonorably discharged.\\"  Another interesting distinction that often goes unnoticed is that some Roman troops fought \\"expediti\\" without armor while the majority remained armored.  Cowan notes that Roman commanders usually preferred to have some troops outfitted as expediti, particularly on route marches where they served as mobile flankers to protect the columns.<br /> In the section on Battle, Cowan notes Roman preference for the \\"triplex acies\\" or triple line formation with cohorts deployed in 4-3-3 order.  Indeed, much of the modern tactical preference for \\"two up, one back\\" harkens back to Caesar's tactical formulae.  Cowan's characterizations of Roman battle tactics and formations are heavily influenced by modern research on the subject, such as by Keppie and Goldsworthy.  However, the author's assertion that the \\"century was the primary tactical units of the legion,\\" rather than the cohort, is unsupportable.  Cowan's hypothesis, borrowed from an earlier researcher in 1994, is based upon the evidence that the cohort lacked its own commander or standard.  This is exceedingly thin evidence for such a controversial hypothesis that controverts Caesar and Tacitus, and demonstrates the danger of modern researchers who \\"think things to death\\".  No military man from any time in the past 2,000 years would believe that an 80 man, company-size unit would be the primary tactical unit rather than a 300-600 man cohort or battalion size unit.  First, a century could not perform independent tactical missions, but a cohort with six cohorts could operate independently and we have the accounts to prove this.  Second, Roman military doctrine was based upon the timely use of reserves; a century lacked the size to employ a reserve on a significant enough scale to influence a battle, but a cohort could commit two centuries as a reserve.  There is little doubt that the century was the building block for the larger cohorts and legions, but it was not an end unto itself.  If Cowan was right and the cohort was merely an administrative entity, then try to imagine the Legion commander controlling 60 centuries on the battlefield without an intermediate level of command - this defies military logic.  Nevertheless, this is an excellent summary of the Roman legionary in this period.a cohort could commit two centuries as a reserve.  There is little doubt that the century was the building block for the larger cohorts and legions, but it was not an end unto itself.  If Cowan was right and the cohort was merely an administrative entity, then try to imagine the Legion commander controlling 60 centuries on the battlefield without an intermediate level of command - this defies military logic.  Nevertheless, this is an excellent summary of the Roman legionary in this period.	2003-08-19
1008546:US	52533596	R1N03GUREC2JIC	1841766798	238506793	Auldearn 1645: The Marquis of Montrose’s Scottish campaign	Books	1	11	32	N	Y	Worst Volume in Campaign Series	It is difficult to see how Stuart Reid's volume on the Auldearn Campaign in Scotland in 1645 made it into Osprey's Campaign series.  For a series that claims to provide &quot;accounts of history's greatest conflicts,&quot; this obscure sideshow to the English Civil War clearly does not rank as a &quot;great conflict.&quot;  Indeed, since Osprey has yet to produce volumes on significant battles like Friedland, Stalingrad, El Alamein, Tannenberg, , Blenheim or Actium, it is amazing that they would stoop to devoting an entire volume to a campaign that hold so little historical or military value (surely a section in the upcoming Essential Histories volume on the English Civil War could have sufficed).  Nor is Reid, who wrote admirably about the Georgian-era British Army and the Culloden campaigns, up to snuff in this volume.  He does not so much narrate this campaign as inflict it upon the reader, making it about as pleasurable as a root canal.  With Auldearn 1645 Reid has accomplished the unthinkable - he has displaced Bosworth 1485 as the worst volume in the Osprey Campaign series.<br /> The introductory sections on background, opposing commanders, plans and armies occupy a mere 11 pages - well below the series average.  Noticeably, there is a portrait of only a single commander, the Marquis of Montrose.  Reid provides only the faintest detail on other commanders, such as noting that MacColla was a professional soldier, but doesn't even mention the age of 3 of 4 leaders.  The section on opposing armies is skeletal.  The actual campaign narrative is an interminable 73 pages long (seemed like 900).  Normally, I detail the maps and graphics that support the author's text, but there seems little point in this case, since Auldearn 1645 is so meandering.  Readers should also note the very large number of current photographs of the various &quot;battlefields&quot; in this volume - Reid had a lot of void to fill.  The rest of the artwork varies from fair to mediocre to irrelevant (lots of crude sketches of Highlanders).<br /> First and foremost, the Auldearn Campaign simply didn't matter because the English Civil War was decided by Englishmen in England, not small bands of Irish mercenaries and Scottish tribal levies in the boondocks of Scotland.  Montrose's plan to attract Parliamentary forces away from the main fighting in England was an early and conspicuous failure, since his forces - while elusive - were just too small to matter.  Furthermore, Royalist forces lacked the popular support necessary to control large population areas, which was necessary for decisive results in a civil war.  Another important factor, noted by Reid, is that many of the Scottish levies used by both sides had local agendas that had nothing to do with Royal authority (e.g. Clan Donald).  Thus, win or lose, Montrose's wanderings in Scotland had negligible effect upon the outcome of the English Civil War.  Even the authoritative Encyclopedia of Military History by Dupuy &amp; Dupuy devotes only three short sentences to this entire campaign.  Yet Reid, who seems hell-bent upon detailing every miniscule tactical movement, ignores this essential lack of strategic relevancy.<br /> Another reason why this volume is a complete waste of time is the lack of sufficient reliable data to support Reid's narrative.  Reid's paragraphs are so riddled with expressions like, &quot;assuming,&quot; &quot;it is likely,&quot; &quot;this could mean,&quot; &quot;this can be read to mean,&quot; &quot;not quite so clear,&quot; &quot;is uncertain,&quot; &quot;is unknown,&quot; &quot;was not explained&quot; that the reader will quickly tire of all this vague guessing and wonder just what the author actually knows for a fact.  It is particularly unsettling when Reid has to cite &quot;local ballads,&quot; &quot;local traditions,&quot; and &quot;a pretty widespread rumor.&quot;  Auldearn 1645 has the feel of poorly written historical fiction, not military history.<br /> Finally, the Auldearn Campaign is simply not worthy of serious military study, since the forces involved were such primitive tactical throwbacks.  At a time when real tactical development was occurring in England and on the continent, Reid bores the reader with detailing a battle where neither side had artillery, where perhaps 50% of the troops fought with pikes or swords, and where cavalry was used in only tiny amounts.  Indeed, the recurrent lack of pre-battle reconnaissance by most of the combatants, and the preference for simple, frontal assaults mark the Auldearn Campaign as an affair of merely armed mobs.  It is also significant that despite Reid's numerous photographs of modern cow fields in Scotland, there is only a single photograph of one small plaque marking one of the actions in the campaign; that should demonstrate to the reader just how well-remembered the Auldearn Campaign is in Scotland today.  When I visited the Inverness-Nairn area years ago, I found plenty of mention of the Battle of Culloden, but not a word of Auldearn.uldearn Campaign is simply not worthy of serious military study, since the forces involved were such primitive tactical throwbacks.  At a time when real tactical development was occurring in England and on the continent, Reid bores the reader with detailing a battle where neither side had artillery, where perhaps 50% of the troops fought with pikes or swords, and where cavalry was used in only tiny amounts.  Indeed, the recurrent lack of pre-battle reconnaissance by most of the combatants, and the preference for simple, frontal assaults mark the Auldearn Campaign as an affair of merely armed mobs.  It is also significant that despite Reid's numerous photographs of modern cow fields in Scotland, there is only a single photograph of one small plaque marking one of the actions in the campaign; that should demonstrate to the reader just how well-remembered the Auldearn Campaign is in Scotland today.  When I visited the Inverness-Nairn area years ago, I found plenty of mention of the Battle of Culloden, but not a word of Auldearn.	2003-08-17
1023417:US	52533596	R2GXHP2ZQP3ZQD	1841766968	777282508	Zorndorf 1758: Frederick faces Holy Mother Russia (Campaign)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Frederick the Great's Bad Day	British Army officer Simon Millar's Zorndorf 1758, which is #125 in Osprey's Campaign series, follows hard on the heals of his earlier volumes on Kolin and Rossbach/Leuthen.  Zorndorf is probably Millar's best volume to date on the campaigns of Frederick the Great and his narrative style has improved.  Overall, Zorndorf 1758 is a clear and succinct account of Frederick the Great's most difficult battles.<br /> Zorndorf 1758 has the usual sections on introduction, chronology, opposing leaders and opposing armies, but omits the section on opposing plans (which is incorporated elsewhere in the text).  A rather lengthy 17-page prelude covers Frederick's abortive siege of Olmutz and his march to the Oder River.  The Battle of Zorndorf is covered in a 40-page narrative, followed by a 5-page aftermath section.  Millar provides a detailed order of battle, but unit strengths are not mentioned.  The campaign narrative is supported by six 2-D maps (Eastern Europe 1758, Russian & Prussian movements in August 1758, the Siege of Custrin, Frederick's march to Zorndorf, initial positions at Zorndorf, and the final Prussian attacks) and three 3-D Birds Eye View tactical maps of the battle.  The three battle scenes by Adam Hook are: Russian Cossacks burning Zorndorf; Russian cavalry charging the Prussian advance guard; and Prussian infantry attacking the Russian Observation Corps.<br /> Although a Russian invasion of East Prussia in 1757 had come to naught, a renewed invasion in the spring of 1758 was more successful.  Russian forces under General Fermor launched a surprise winter campaign (typical!) that caught the Prussians by surprise and quickly overran virtually most of East Prussia, while Frederick was busy facing the Austrian armies in Moravia.  When the Russians approached the Oder River, a scant 80 kilometers from the capital in Berlin, Frederick was forced to race north to blunt the invasion.  Millar's description of Russian conduct in East Prussia is interesting; the Russian troops did not molest the people or ravage the land, and they even read an official apology from the Tsarina for damages done in the 1757 campaign!  Readers will surely be apt to contrast this self-restrained invasion in 1758 with the savage Soviet invasion of East Prussia in 1945.<br /> Millar's description of the Russian army in 1758 is also interesting.  The Russian army of this period was not the \\"steamroller\\" of later years but rather, a relatively limited, long-service force that could send fewer than 70,000 troops to fight in the West.  Although Millar notes that the Russians had \\"the best trained and equipped\\" artillery in Europe, they were burdened with a sloppy command and control system (exercised from the court in St Petersburg) and a cumbersome logistic system.  On the other hand, the Russian Army was blessed with tough, steady troops who could absorb a huge amount of punishment without routing.  Since most of Frederick's tactics were designed to precipitate flight in unsteady opponents, the Prussian tactics were ill suited for dealing with the Russian threat.<br /> Millar notes that Frederick was probably not in top form at Zorndorf, noting that he committed his smaller army to battle with conducting proper reconnaissance and failed to take advantage of the initially disorganized Russian forces.  As usual, Frederick tried to turn his enemy's flank but when this did not work out, he decided to conduct a \\"frontal oblique order attack\\" (i.e. a frontal attack on one of the enemy's wings).  Frederick's improvised battle plan was not particularly good and his subordinates botched it, resulting in 2/3rds of the Prussian infantry being rendered temporarily hors de combat.  Indeed, Frederick's attempts to personally rally his routed troops failed.  Millar is probably too generous with Frederick, preferring to blame his subordinates, but it is obvious that the Prussian tactical plan at Zorndorf was uninspired and possibly foolhardy.  What saved Frederick fromtotal defeat was the absence of the Russian commander from the field and the consequent lack of higher leadership.  Nevertheless, the Russian cavalry commander was independent enough to overrun some of the Prussian artillery and disorganize much of the rest of Frederick's infantry.<br /> However, Millar notes that the Prussian cavalry under Seydlitz got in some serious blows that did real damage to the Russian infantry.  Frederick kept attacking futilely for ten hours until both armies were fought out.  Both sides still held the field and Millar rightly calls Zorndorf a draw.  It was also a very bloody battle indeed, with 35% losses for the Prussians and 45% for the Russians.  While the Russian threat to Berlin was stopped for the moment, Frederick had badly damaged his ever-shrinking army in a poorly thought-out action.  Zorndorf was certainly not one of Frederick's greater moments and his handling of the campaign was marked more by arrogant assumptions than tactical genius.<br /> My only concerns for this volume are the author's wandering attention and apparent lack of research into Russian sources.  Millar spends too much time on pre-campaign events in Moravia and then too much on post-campaign events in Bohemia.  Meanwhile, the early phases of the Russian invasion get too little attention.  Apparently, Millar is more interested in the Austrian Front than the Russian Front.  This wandering focus is particularly noticeable in the 5-page Battlefield Today section, where Millar starts discussing a modern visit to Zorndorf then starts talking about toy shops in Berlin, the Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp, Potsdam, and the nightlife in East Berlin.  If I want to read a tour guide about Berlin I will buy one.  Focus on the subject, please!  It is also obvious throughout the text that Millar is a great admirer of Frederick and this probably colors his evaluation of mis-managed battles like Zorndorf.from total defeat was the absence of the Russian commander from the field and the consequent lack of higher leadership.  Nevertheless, the Russian cavalry commander was independent enough to overrun some of the Prussian artillery and disorganize much of the rest of Frederick's infantry.  <br /> However, Millar notes that the Prussian cavalry under Seydlitz got in some serious blows that did real damage to the Russian infantry.  Frederick kept attacking futilely for ten hours until both armies were fought out.  Both sides still held the field and Millar rightly calls Zorndorf a draw.  It was also a very bloody battle indeed, with 35% losses for the Prussians and 45% for the Russians.  While the Russian threat to Berlin was stopped for the moment, Frederick had badly damaged his ever-shrinking army in a poorly thought-out action.  Zorndorf was certainly not one of Frederick's greater moments and his handling of the campaign was marked more by arrogant assumptions than tactical genius.  <br /> My only concerns for this volume are the author's wandering attention and apparent lack of research into Russian sources.  Millar spends too much time on pre-campaign events in Moravia and then too much on post-campaign events in Bohemia.  Meanwhile, the early phases of the Russian invasion get too little attention.  Apparently, Millar is more interested in the Austrian Front than the Russian Front.  This wandering focus is particularly noticeable in the 5-page Battlefield Today section, where Millar starts discussing a modern visit to Zorndorf then starts talking about toy shops in Berlin, the Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp, Potsdam, and the nightlife in East Berlin.  If I want to read a tour guide about Berlin I will buy one.  Focus on the subject, please!  It is also obvious throughout the text that Millar is a great admirer of Frederick and this probably colors his evaluation of mis-managed battles like Zorndorf.	2003-08-04
1023440:US	52533596	RTFHDU9VO9ZAH	1841765619	464772246	Tannenberg 1410: Disaster for the Teutonic Knights (Campaign)	Books	5	37	42	N	Y	Rich in Historical Imagery	Thankfully, Osprey turned its Campaign series volume #122, Tannenberg 1410, over to Stephen Turnbull, rather than its household medieval specialist, Dr. David Nicolle.  Turnbull, who is well known for his earlier works on Japanese Samurai, is able to deliver passion and humanity into his historical narrative, unlike the erudite but dull Nicolle.  While Tannenberg might not have been one of the most critical battles in history, it was the kind of battle that created legends and historical traditions that greatly influenced future German-Slav relations.  Turnbull's telling of this classic battle between the Polish-Lithuanian allies and the German Teutonic knights is first rate.<br /> Tannenberg 1410 follows the standard Osprey Campaign series progression from introduction, through chronology, opposing commanders, opposing armies and opposing plans.  The campaign narrative itself is 49 pages long.  The aftermath section is fairly long at 12 pages, since the war continued for decades after Tannenberg.  Turnbull uses five 2-D maps (Eastern Europe 1386, castles of the Teutonic order, the Polish invasion of Prussia, Kauernick to Tannenberg, Eastern Europe 1466) and three 3-D Birds Eye View maps on the Battle of Tannenberg itself. The three battle scenes by artist Richard Hook are quite good: the confrontation at the Kauernick ford, the Lithuanian charge, and the death of the Grand Master.  Turnbull also provides notes on sources used and a visit to the modern-day battlefield.<br /> The Teutonic Knights are rich in imagery, clad in white tunics with black crosses, ravaging Eastern Europe with fire and sword for generations.  Although the Order, as it was called, was primarily German in origin, Turnbull notes that the organization was open to \\"guest crusaders.\\"  Indeed, the future English King Henry IV went in 1392 and brought many archers with him.  Although the crusades in Eastern Europe were cast as a religious struggle of Christian knights against Pagans, the real motives were land and power.  Turnbull notes that this hidden agenda was revealed in 1386 when the \\"conversion of Lithuania removed any justification for the continuance of the Teutonic Knights' aggressive expansion into Lithuania under the banner of a 'crusade'.  The Order, however, had no intention of giving up the struggle.\\"  The pogroms and land-grabs by the Order in Eastern Europe might be viewed as the first instance of a Lebensraum tradition.  Unfortunately for the Order, the marriage of Jadwiga and Jagiello led to a formal military alliance in 1401 between Poland and Lithuania, creating a major Slav alliance.  Turnbull mentions the critical role of diplomacy and money in securing allies or inhibiting foes (Muscovy, Hungary, Bohemia, Moldavia), which demonstrates the complexity of this conflict.  In August 1409, the Teutonic Knights declared war on Poland after making spurious claims against Polish Christianity (due to the presence of small numbers of Tartars in southern Poland, the Order claimed that Polish and Lithuanian Christianity was a sham), thus beginning the idiotic German tradition of attacking stronger coalitions.<br /> Tannenberg was one of the bigger battles of the Middle Ages, with about 27,000 Teutonic troops versus 39,000 Poles/Lithuanians.  Turnbull corrects some misconceptions about the battle, such as his estimate that only about 250 Teutonic troops were heavily armed, mounted knights (203 were killed in the battle).  Poland's army was feudal in nature, but had few foot soldiers, regulars or mercenaries.  The Order placed great emphasis on field artillery to disrupt the enemy but wet weather rendered their cannon ineffective.  Tannenberg was a catastrophic defeat for the Order with fewer than 1,500 Teutonic troops escaping.  However, victory did not come cheaply, since the Poles-Lithuanians suffered 30% losses themselves.  Turnbull notes that Tannenberg mortally wounded the Teutonic Order and that it was unusual that the battle that decided a long war should come almost right at the beginning of the conflict.<br /> If Tannenberg teaches us any lessons, it is that final victory can be very elusive even after a decisive battle.  The Poles and Lithuanians failed to aggressively pursue the shattered Teutonic remnants and allowed the hero, Heinrich von Plauen to rally survivors and hold on to key castles.  The Order also used its extensive diplomatic contacts to gain foreign support and this resiliency even allowed limited counteroffensives.  For over fifty years, the mortally wounded Order fought a last ditch struggle against Poland and Lithuania, until their lands were finally absorbed in 1466.  Turnbull concludes that, \\"the German-speaking peoples did not forget this reversal of fortunes, and three centuries later the \\"Partition of Prussia\\" was used as a justification for the Partition of Poland.\\"ong war should come almost right at the beginning of the conflict.   <br /> If Tannenberg teaches us any lessons, it is that final victory can be very elusive even after a decisive battle.  The Poles and Lithuanians failed to aggressively pursue the shattered Teutonic remnants and allowed the hero, Heinrich von Plauen to rally survivors and hold on to key castles.  The Order also used its extensive diplomatic contacts to gain foreign support and this resiliency even allowed limited counteroffensives.  For over fifty years, the mortally wounded Order fought a last ditch struggle against Poland and Lithuania, until their lands were finally absorbed in 1466.  Turnbull concludes that, \\"the German-speaking peoples did not forget this reversal of fortunes, and three centuries later the \\"Partition of Prussia\\" was used as a justification for the Partition of Poland.\\"	2003-08-04
1029079:US	52533596	R31I38HU6GT34C	1841766240	810012382	Dieppe 1942: Prelude to D-Day (Campaign)	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	A Dumb Plan Executed by Brave Soldiers	British bookseller Ken Ford's Dieppe 1942: Prelude to D-Day follows in the footsteps of his earlier books in the Osprey Campaign series on the D-Day landings.  Ford's narrative is clear and accurate, well supported by highly detailed battle maps and overall the volume provides ample narrative and graphic content on its subject.  Ford's battle narrative is aided by the Canadian government's in-depth files on this operation, which provide a wealth of information on the Dieppe landing.<br /> Dieppe 1942: Prelude to D-Day follows the standard Osprey campaign series format, with short sections on the origins of the battle, a minute-by-minute chronology (very helpful), opposing commanders, opposing armies and opposing plans.  The author also provides an Allied order of battle which is good, but fails to mention unit strengths.  Given the heavy casualties in the Dieppe landing, the author should have provided an initial strength for each battalion-size unit and its subsequent casualties.  The author's sections on the Germans are also rather skimpy.  The maps are excellent and include five 2-D maps (sea routes to Dieppe, the British landing plan, German defenses in Dieppe, Yellow Beach, the air battle) and three 3-D Birds Eye View maps (4 Commando's destruction of Hess Battery, Green Beach and Assault on Dieppe).  The three color battle scenes are decent: the destruction of Hess Battery, the Attack on Red and White Beaches and Dogfight over Dieppe.  The author provides a short bibliography but fails to note that key documents - such as the Jubilee operations order and captured German after-action reports - are now available on the Internet.<br /> Ford's battle narrative is excellent and his methodology is perfect: he starts on the flanking landings (Yellow, Orange, Blue and Green beaches), moves to the main landings in the center (Red and White), covers the air-sea battles around Dieppe, then finishes with the withdrawal.  In particular, Ford's coverage of the actions of 3 and 4 Commando is quite good.  Readers should have no difficulty in following Ford's narrative, which is clear and succinct.<br /> Some standard military lessons are hammered home in this volume, such as the essential fact that obstacles must be covered by fire in order to be effective.  Ford notes that the German defenders were initially caught by surprise by the initial landings and had only limited troops watching the coast on Dieppe's flanks.  On Yellow beaches, small groups of 3 Commando were able to infiltrate up a cliff face covered with barbed wire in 20 minutes - without special equipment!  Subsequently, both the German Hess and Goebbels batteries were surprised when they came under attack by Allied commandos.  A few German snipers could have prevented such nasty surprises.  Another important lesson is the importance of terrain analysis in operational planning; the Anglo-Canadian planners failed to grasp the impassable nature of the beachfront obstacles around Dieppe or the loose pebble surface which effectively neutralized most of their tanks.<br /> Ford contends that the Dieppe landings had many objectives, such as a political demonstration of a \\"quasi-Second Front,\\" to give the Canadian troops battle experience, to test the German defenses, to cripple the Luftwaffe in the France, and to validate combined operations doctrine.  The landings are described both as a \\"raid\\" and as a \\"reconnaissance-in-force.\\"  Most of these justifications appear rather specious, particularly the idea that the Soviets would see a temporary raid as a \\"Second Front.\\"  Rather, it appears that Operation Jubilee's main objective was to achieve a propaganda victory - to temporarily seize a port city in France, run up the Union Jack, take some photographs, and leave before the 10th Panzer Division arrived.  Had the landings actually seized Dieppe, this would have been a tremendous boost to British morale following soon after disasters in Singapore and Tobruk.  Churchill needed a large-scale success and something more than just small-scale commando raids.  Indeed, the actual military objectives of beach reconnaissance and destruction of German coastal batteries could have been achieved by 3 and 4 Commando alone - why add the 2nd Canadian Division?  Indeed, the Dieppe planning bears some of the same false assumptions and unwarranted optimism that marked Churchill's earlier effort at Gallipoli in 1915.  Yet a faulty plan, probably driven by political imperatives, handed the propaganda victory to the enemy instead.  The virtual annihilation of the Canadians on the beach added credibility to Hitler's Atlantic Wall and probably bucked up morale in Germany.<br /> The manner in which Ford handles the fact that the Dieppe landings were a conspicuous disaster that achieved few objectives and resulted in 60% casualties further highlights the Twilight Zone that surrounds Operation Jubilee.  Ford's subtitle for this volume, \\"prelude to D-Day\\" highlights the post-war British conviction that the Dieppe landings were a necessary precursor to the D-Day landings and that many invaluable lessons were learned. Taken in this light, of experience gained that saved lives in future landings, Dieppe's losses appear more acceptable.  Unfortunately, Dieppe appears less of a \\"prelude to D-Day\\" than a \\"successor to Gallipoli,\\" the infamous British landings in 1915 that also failed to achieve their objectives and cost thousands of lives.  Furthermore, the idea that Dieppe was an essential prerequisite to D-Day conveniently ignores the fact that the Anglo-Americans would conduct four major opposed amphibious landings before D-Day (Torch, Sicily, Salerno and Anzio) that were much larger and that were not designed as raids.  Actually, the idea that Dieppe was necessary in order to ensure the success of D-Day has become a historical palliative to dampen Canadian outrage and to soothe the consciences of leaders who recklessly threw 6,000 troops into the frying pan for dubious objectives.  Yet is has been abundantly clear since 0506 hours on 19 August 1942, when the German machineguns began the slaughter on Blue Beach, that Operation Jubilee was a dumb plan executed by brave soldiers.rge-scale success and something more than just small-scale commando raids.  Indeed, the actual military objectives of beach reconnaissance and destruction of German coastal batteries could have been achieved by 3 and 4 Commando alone - why add the 2nd Canadian Division?  Indeed, the Dieppe planning bears some of the same false assumptions and unwarranted optimism that marked Churchill's earlier effort at Gallipoli in 1915.  Yet a faulty plan, probably driven by political imperatives, handed the propaganda victory to the enemy instead.  The virtual annihilation of the Canadians on the beach added credibility to Hitler's Atlantic Wall and probably bucked up morale in Germany.  <br /> The manner in which Ford handles the fact that the Dieppe landings were a conspicuous disaster that achieved few objectives and resulted in 60% casualties further highlights the Twilight Zone that surrounds Operation Jubilee.  Ford's subtitle for this volume, \\"prelude to D-Day\\" highlights the post-war British conviction that the Dieppe landings were a necessary precursor to the D-Day landings and that many invaluable lessons were learned. Taken in this light, of experience gained that saved lives in future landings, Dieppe's losses appear more acceptable.  Unfortunately, Dieppe appears less of a \\"prelude to D-Day\\" than a \\"successor to Gallipoli,\\" the infamous British landings in 1915 that also failed to achieve their objectives and cost thousands of lives.  Furthermore, the idea that Dieppe was an essential prerequisite to D-Day conveniently ignores the fact that the Anglo-Americans would conduct four major opposed amphibious landings before D-Day (Torch, Sicily, Salerno and Anzio) that were much larger and that were not designed as raids.  Actually, the idea that Dieppe was necessary in order to ensure the success of D-Day has become a historical palliative to dampen Canadian outrage and to soothe the consciences of leaders who recklessly threw 6,000 troops into the frying pan for dubious objectives.  Yet is has been abundantly clear since 0506 hours on 19 August 1942, when the German machineguns began the slaughter on Blue Beach, that Operation Jubilee was a dumb plan executed by brave soldiers.	2003-07-30
1029351:US	52533596	R2LXGWX5INJJVT	1841765945	661046170	The Austro-Hungarian Forces in World War I (1): 1914–16 (Men-at-Arms)	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	Decent, but Uneven in Places	The Osprey Men-at-Arms series recent volumes on various armies of the First World War, while brief, have helped to shed some light on the more neglected military forces that participated in that conflict.  Dr. Peter Jung, who works at the Austrian War Archives, brings his professional knowledge to bear in the first of two volumes on the Austro-Hungarian army in the First World War.  The first volume covers the period 1914-1916.  Overall, this volume is decent but not great, while the color plates make this volume an essential purchase for any student of the First World War.<br /> After a short introduction, Dr. Jung has a brief section on the organization of the Austro-Hungarian army, followed by eight pages on major operations in 1914-1916.  A 26-page section on uniforms, equipment, the branches and volunteer units comprises the bulk of the volume.  Most welcome is the author's inclusion of a map of corps districts in 1914, a detailed order of battle for August 1914, a chart of rank insignia, and lists of the infantry and cavalry regiments in 1914.  These charts alone make this volume useful.  As usual, the color plates are the main effort in this thin volume and these include: officers in 1914, infantry in 1914, cavalry in 1914, winter uniforms, mountain troops, specialist troops, foreign volunteers and Austrian troops serving in Gallipoli and Palestine.  While the Austro-Hungarian Army may not have won many battles, they certainly had some of the most attractive uniforms of any combatant in the First World War.<br /> Dr. Jung does pack a fair amount of information into this 48-page format, but his coverage is sometimes uneven.  The discussion of the organization of Austrian divisions is overly succinct; although he notes that the Austrian divisions had only 46 artillery pieces compared to 50-72 for everybody else, it is unclear what size weapons were in their divisional artillery (plus he notes that Austrians had six gun batteries, but 46 is not divisible by 6, so the organization is unclear).  Dr. Jung also pretty much ignores the Austrian artillery contribution on the Western Front in 1914, but then gets rather blabby about the minor operations in Albania and Palestine.  Nor is there any discussion of tactical or operational doctrines.<br /> There's also an obvious bias in these pages - not unexpected from someone working in the Austrian archives - to sugarcoat some of the worst aspects of this misfortune-plagued army.  Dr. Jung's description of the campaigns in Serbia and Galicia make it sound like the Austrians did pretty well and were only occasionally forced to give up some ground.  The author admits that the 1916 Brusilov Offensive did some damage but downplays the fact that the Austrian army virtually disintegrated and were saved only by Russian mistakes and quick German reinforcements.  There is also very little mention of tactical innovation or assistance from the Germans in this volume.  Obviously, a 48-page account has to be concise and skim over much ground (although it seems that no uniform detail - however trivial - must be omitted), and Dr. Jung achieves the main objective of providing a summary of Austrian forces in 1914-1916.o the organization is unclear).  Dr. Jung also pretty much ignores the Austrian artillery contribution on the Western Front in 1914, but then gets rather blabby about the minor operations in Albania and Palestine.  Nor is there any discussion of tactical or operational doctrines.<br /> There's also an obvious bias in these pages - not unexpected from someone working in the Austrian archives - to sugarcoat some of the worst aspects of this misfortune-plagued army.  Dr. Jung's description of the campaigns in Serbia and Galicia make it sound like the Austrians did pretty well and were only occasionally forced to give up some ground.  The author admits that the 1916 Brusilov Offensive did some damage but downplays the fact that the Austrian army virtually disintegrated and were saved only by Russian mistakes and quick German reinforcements.  There is also very little mention of tactical innovation or assistance from the Germans in this volume.  Obviously, a 48-page account has to be concise and skim over much ground (although it seems that no uniform detail - however trivial - must be omitted), and Dr. Jung achieves the main objective of providing a summary of Austrian forces in 1914-1916.	2003-07-30
1032377:US	52533596	R1TXYE49390IIT	1841764183	889587469	The Suez Crisis 1956 (Essential Histories)	Books	4	27	28	N	Y	Does All This Sound Familiar?	Apparently, in the Mideast not much has changed in the past five decades.  Osprey's Essential Histories #49, The Suez Crisis 1956 by Dr. Derek Varble, offers modern readers a chance to review this first major crisis in the Mideast.  Not only is The Suez Crisis 1956 well written, but it offers a sense of d&eacute;j&agrave; vu with the recent conflict in Iraq.  In particular, military officers serving in the Mideast would find their time well spent in perusing these pages and reflecting on the mistakes made in an earlier Western military intervention in the region.<br /> The Suez Crisis 1956 follows the usual Essential Histories format in regard to section on background to the crisis, the fighting and portrait of a warrior.  However, the section on \\"portrait of a civilian\\" is not particularly good since it fails to use first-person accounts to humanize the Egyptian population.  The lack of the section entitled \\"world around the war\\" is also unfortunate, since without it the author misses the opportunity to explain the critical diplomatic actions in the United Nations that ultimately curtailed the Anglo-French operation.  Furthermore, the author fails to tackle the issue of why Egypt received no material aid from other Arab states and why Israel was able to fight a one-front war.  There are a total of eight very good maps in this volume:  Kadesh Opening Phase; Mitla Pass; Deadlock in Central Sinai; Abu Aoueigila; Egyptian Retreat from Sinai; Rafah and Gaza Strip; Israel secures Sinai; and Sharm el-Sheikh.  Unfortunately, there are no detailed maps of the Port Said area, which makes it difficult to follow the author's very tactical narrative of the Anglo-French invasion.<br /> Egyptian leader Nasser's nationalization of the Suez Canal in 1956 was the proximate cause of the crisis, but England, France and Israel connived to remove him for reasons beyond the canal.  France detested Nasser for his aid to the Algerian rebels, just as Israel detested him for his support for Palestinian guerrilla attacks on Israel.  Britain wanted Nasser removed because his call for \\"Arab unity threatened a key client [of Britain], Iraq's Hashemite dynasty.  Cheap Iraqi petroleum, vital to Britain's economy, depended on Hashemite rule.\\"  Even the United States, which feared Nasser's growing ties to the USSR wanted him removed and the author notes that, \\"in 1956, American and British leaders began Omega, a plan for regime change in Egypt.\\"  The similarities between Western desire for regime change with Nasser and Saddam Hussein are striking, and Arab writers could easily use these examples to claim that a strong Arab leader who stands up the West and Israel will not be tolerated for long.<br /> Militarily, Varble demonstrates that the Israeli Army was still evolving from an infantry-heavy defensive force into a modern, combined arms force but was still immature in 1956.  In particular, Moshe Dayan had neglected armor and logistics, as well as sufficient wheeled transport, which made it difficult for the Israelis to conduct rapid desert movements.  The Israelis also made frequent navigational errors and fratricide was common (incl. one bizarre incident on 2 November when one Israeli tank company mistakenly ambushed another Israeli company, knocking out 8 of 9 tanks.).  Israel was still able to smash Egyptian resistance in Sinai in eight days, but the campaign indicated a number of deficiencies that led to a vast improvement in Israeli military capabilities.<br /><br /> For the Anglo-French coalition, the invasion of Egypt was frustrating, as it was fruitless.  Initially, the British leaders thought \\"bombers alone could attain victory\\" and they hoped that an \\"aero-psychological campaign\\" of strategic bombing would topple Nasser's regime.  This sounds a great deal like \\"Shock and Awe\\" in Baghdad in 2003.  At any rate, the British had only 18 bombers and they were employed in futile high-altitude, night attacks with \\"dumb\\" bombs, and their only success was to knock out Radio Cairo for a few days.  Once the strategic air campaign failed, naval aircraft from Anglo-French carriers were called in and they annihilated the bulk of Egyptian Air Force on the ground.<br /> Anglo-French ground operations were even more sobering.  The first airborne landings at Port Said consisted of only two battalions, and although reinforced, these troops had to hold without heavy weapons for 24 hours.  The first amphibious wave for the \\"main invasion\\" on 6 November 1956 was laughably only 12 landing craft with 240 troops.  What if it had been an opposed landing?  What if the Egyptian armor brigades had arrived?  Indeed, the Anglo-French operation was hobbled from the beginning by insufficient air transport and amphibious vehicles.  Coalition forces attacked with only 2-1 odds into a major urban area, Port Said, and quickly got bogged down in house-to-house fighting.  On the other hand, Varble notes that the Allies did introduce one innovation, which was the first air-assault in history, when 45 Marine Commando lifted into Port Said on 6 November.  Due to unexpectedly protracted urban combat, the Allies lost their focus and never reached their prime objective - the Suez Canal - before the UN-imposed cease-fire.  Varble notes, \\"judicious exchanges of territory and time by Egyptian soldiers cheated Britain and France of a rapid tactical victory.\\"  Significantly, the Anglo-French also failed to plan for civil-military operations in Port Said and after the cease-fire, they were confronted with managing 200,000 Egyptian civilians whose water, food and electricity had been cut-off.  Sound familiar?<br />The Suez Crisis also revealed the pitfalls of coalition warfare. While the British sought to minimize collateral damage in Egypt by limiting naval gunfire support and air attacks, the French troops often employed a \\"no prisoners\\" policy.  British commanders were meticulous and sought to follow the operational plan.  French commanders were opportunistic and were willing to \\"jettison part or all of the original plan\\" based on changing circumstances.t Radio Cairo for a few days.  Once the strategic air campaign failed, naval aircraft from Anglo-French carriers were called in and they annihilated the bulk of Egyptian Air Force on the ground. <br /> Anglo-French ground operations were even more sobering.  The first airborne landings at Port Said consisted of only two battalions, and although reinforced, these troops had to hold without heavy weapons for 24 hours.  The first amphibious wave for the \\"main invasion\\" on 6 November 1956 was laughably only 12 landing craft with 240 troops.  What if it had been an opposed landing?  What if the Egyptian armor brigades had arrived?  Indeed, the Anglo-French operation was hobbled from the beginning by insufficient air transport and amphibious vehicles.  Coalition forces attacked with only 2-1 odds into a major urban area, Port Said, and quickly got bogged down in house-to-house fighting.  On the other hand, Varble notes that the Allies did introduce one innovation, which was the first air-assault in history, when 45 Marine Commando lifted into Port Said on 6 November.  Due to unexpectedly protracted urban combat, the Allies lost their focus and never reached their prime objective - the Suez Canal - before the UN-imposed cease-fire.  Varble notes, \\"judicious exchanges of territory and time by Egyptian soldiers cheated Britain and France of a rapid tactical victory.\\"  Significantly, the Anglo-French also failed to plan for civil-military operations in Port Said and after the cease-fire, they were confronted with managing 200,000 Egyptian civilians whose water, food and electricity had been cut-off.  Sound familiar?  <br />The Suez Crisis also revealed the pitfalls of coalition warfare. While the British sought to minimize collateral damage in Egypt by limiting naval gunfire support and air attacks, the French troops often employed a \\"no prisoners\\" policy.  British commanders were meticulous and sought to follow the operational plan.  French commanders were opportunistic andwere willing to \\"jettison part or all of the original plan\\" based on changing circumstances.	2003-07-28
1035033:US	52533596	R1KELUKG28VW3P	0304359750	493573840	Passchendaele: The Sacrificial Ground	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Reinforcing Failure	Between 31 July and 6 November 1917, the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) under the command of Field Marshal Sir Douglas Haig launched a series of major attacks against the German defenses in Flanders.  While this four-month British offensive is known as the Third Battle of Ypres, the battle is also strongly associated with the destroyed village of Passchendaele where it culminated.  After four months of horrific fighting, the BEF had advanced only five miles at the cost of 275,000 casualties and even worse, most of the territory was abandoned when the Germans started their own offensives in 1918. The Third Battle of Ypres was controversial in its day and has become more so over time, indeed it has become a metaphor for waste and futility.  In Passchendaele: The Sacrificial Ground, authors Nigel Steel and Peter Hart offer an anecdotal-driven account of the British offensive.  Steel and Hart's account lacks the chronological format and comprehensiveness to classify it as a true work of military history but rather, it leans toward being a collection of British trench stories.<br /> Passchendaele: The Sacrificial Ground consists of nine chapters and an epilogue.  There are a total of six not-very-helpful maps, which depict only advance lines, not unit locations or boundaries.  The lack of a detailed order of battle is a serious deficiency, which makes it difficult for the reader to determine where the participant's cited were located on the battlefield.  However, the greatest deficiency in the book is the complete lack of perspective from the German side.  Although the authors cite Ludendorff's post-war memoirs on a number of occasions, there is only one German soldier's account of the battle versus more than 200 British accounts.  None of the German army commanders (Gallwitz, Arnim) are ever mentioned in this account, nor is a single German unit of any size ever identified. Clearly, the authors have done not a whit of research on the German side, which seriously degrades the value of this account. On the other hand, the British accounts are often good and they are extremely varied, covering infantry, artillery, engineer, aviation and signal perspectives.  Most readers, accustomed to thinking of artillerymen in the First World War as the &quot;fair haired boys&quot; in the rear will be surprised how rough the British redlegs actually had it in the Ypres salient.<br /> Much of rationale for the British offensive was based on the need to create &quot;a strategic distraction&quot; in order to divert the Germans from discovering the widespread mutinies in the French army.  However, Haig honestly believed that a breakthrough of the German defenses was still possible and his vision was that the 3rd Ypres would lead to the clearing of the Belgian coast.  Once it became obvious that a breakthrough was not possible, Haig resorted to attrition as his rationale for continuing the offensive, claiming that German collapse was imminent.  While the authors do note that Haig could have evacuated the Ypres salient instead of trying to expand it, British pride and Haig's obstinence prevented that more sensible course.  Indeed, the authors never question the cosmic significance that Haig attached to Ypres, the British held ports of Calais and Dunkirk, or the German-held ports of Zeebrugge and Ostend.  In actuality, the British could and did use larger ports such as Cherbourg for supply, and the loss of either Ypres or Dunkirk would not have had catastrophic effects upon the BEF.  After all, the American Expeditionary Force was able to supply its troops from ports that were more than 20 miles from the front - couldn't the BEF do the same?<br /> The authors conclude that Haig was wrong about imminent German collapse but correct that offensives were needed to keep the Germans off balance until the Americans arrived and the French recovered.  Fine, but why Ypres - certainly the worst terrain on the entire Western Front?  To read in these pages about 60,000 British missing during the offensive - including thousands who drowned in the mud - will infuriate and appall most readers.  If offensives were necessary, why not pick better sectors like Cambrai (which Haig did not use until he was almost out of reserves) or even move several corps to attack in French sectors like Champagne?  Why not go after exposed German-held salients like St Mihiel?  It is clear that Haig lacked the imagination to try anything different and was content to batter away in the same old sectors.<br /> From the intelligence perspective, we learn two things from Passchendaele.  First, intelligence must speak with a single voice.  The chief of British intelligence in London warned that German collapse was not imminent, but Haig preferred to listen to his own intelligence officer who cheerfully predicted that one more attack would cause a collapse.  Throughout the battle, British intelligence officers at different levels offered starkly divergent analyses, and commanders were prone to accept the most optimistic ones.  A second lesson from Ypres is that terrain analysis matters a great deal.  Although the BEF was aware of the effects of heavy rains and mud on the offensive, these factors were minimized.  In effect, Haig ignored terrain and weather and for that, he deserves to be pilloried by historians.<br /> Passchendaele did offer a few tactical innovations as well.  The Germans introduced concrete pillboxes and mustard gas - both missed by British intelligence prior to the battle - and these two devices helped to stymie the British offensive.  The British improved their artillery tactics, but their improvement was not as strong as the authors suggest.  British infantrymen still attacked walking upright as they did a year earlier on the Somme, and tanks were stupidly committed single file into swamps. Yet the greatest lesson of Passchendaele, never learned by Haig, is that in war you don't reinforce failure.0,000 British missing during the offensive - including thousands who drowned in the mud - will infuriate and appall most readers.  If offensives were necessary, why not pick better sectors like Cambrai (which Haig did not use until he was almost out of reserves) or even move several corps to attack in French sectors like Champagne?  Why not go after exposed German-held salients like St Mihiel?  It is clear that Haig lacked the imagination to try anything different and was content to batter away in the same old sectors.<br /> From the intelligence perspective, we learn two things from Passchendaele.  First, intelligence must speak with a single voice.  The chief of British intelligence in London warned that German collapse was not imminent, but Haig preferred to listen to his own intelligence officer who cheerfully predicted that one more attack would cause a collapse.  Throughout the battle, British intelligence officers at different levels offered starkly divergent analyses, and commanders were prone to accept the most optimistic ones.  A second lesson from Ypres is that terrain analysis matters a great deal.  Although the BEF was aware of the effects of heavy rains and mud on the offensive, these factors were minimized.  In effect, Haig ignored terrain and weather and for that, he deserves to be pilloried by historians.<br /> Passchendaele did offer a few tactical innovations as well.  The Germans introduced concrete pillboxes and mustard gas - both missed by British intelligence prior to the battle - and these two devices helped to stymie the British offensive.  The British improved their artillery tactics, but their improvement was not as strong as the authors suggest.  British infantrymen still attacked walking upright as they did a year earlier on the Somme, and tanks were stupidly committed single file into swamps. Yet the greatest lesson of Passchendaele, never learned by Haig, is that in war you don't reinforce failure.	2003-07-25
1036207:US	52533596	R1H248N66SDUFB	0415285089	693623971	The Routledge Atlas of the First World War (Routledge Historical Atlases)	Books	4	31	31	N	N	A Real Gem of a Reference Tool	The first edition of The Routledge Atlas of the First World War was published in 1970, and this new edition is extremely useful for readers interested in the conflict.  Martin Gilbert has amassed something like 200 maps that cover various aspects of the First World.  However, readers should realize that this is not a battle atlas that will depict every battle in great detail; rather, Gilbert's intent is to use maps to graphically portray many of the factors that shaped the war but that are often glossed over in textual accounts.  While Gilbert does include maps of individual battles and campaigns, this atlas is designed to give the reader a fuller understanding of the political, military, economic and social factors that ultimately determined the outcome.  Readers should also be advised that this atlas is heavily Anglo-centric, with only minimal coverage of the Eastern Front.  The contributions of the French, Italians and Romanians are virtually absent from this volume.  Despite this glaring bias, this atlas is still a useful reference tool (unless you are researching the French, Italian or Romanian armies).<br /> The Routledge Atlas of the First World War consists of ten sections, five covering a single year of the war, one covering the prelude to war, one each on the war at sea and in the air, a section on the global war, and an aftermath.  The section on prelude to war covers many well-known issues - such as the alliance system in Europe, the Berlin-Baghdad Railway, and ethnic politics in the Balkans - but it is nice to have all these put together in one graphic package.  Oddly, there is no map detailing the various crises that preceded the war, such as the 1908 Bosnian Annexation Crisis.<br /> The section on 1914 is good, covering the main campaigns on the East and Western Fronts, as well as naval actions overseas and the fate of the German colonies.  Two significant omissions are the lack of a map of the Austrian invasion of Serbia or the French Plan XVII offensive that led to the Battle of the Frontiers.  The section on 1915 is rather lame, with over-focus on British operations in Gallipoli and Mesopotamia, but only a handful of maps on the Eastern Front.  Even the Western Front is down-played in the 1915 section, with no mention of the British Loos or Neuve Chapelle offensives, or any French operations.  The 1916 section is also skimpy on non-British issues, with only one simple map of Verdun and no coverage of the Brusilov offensive.<br /> The section on the air war is quite interesting, with maps depicting German zeppelin raids over England, London's air defenses, and British air raids on Germany.  The section on the naval war has interesting maps of the British blockade, food riots in Germany, Allied merchant ship losses in the Mediterranean and in British waters, and American ship-building. The section on 1917 is better than the earlier sections on 1915-1916, with very nice maps of the underground mines at Messines Ridge, 3rd Ypres and several maps on the Eastern Front. The section on 1918 is also interesting, although the belated inclusion of a single map on the Italian Front is rather telling about the Anglo-centric nature of this volume.  Certainly the most informative section of the Atlas is that covering the world at war, which has maps depicting the various war aims, India and the Commonwealth's contributions, British munitions production and British supplies to the Allies.  The aftermath section is also useful for understanding the various treaties,ffensive that led to the Battle of the Frontiers.  The section on 1915 is rather lame, with over-focus on British operations in Gallipoli and Mesopotamia, but only a handful of maps on the Eastern Front.  Even the Western Front is down-played in the 1915 section, with no mention of the British Loos or Neuve Chapelle offensives, or any French operations.  The 1916 section is also skimpy on non-British issues, with only one simple map of Verdun and no coverage of the Brusilov offensive.  <br /> The section on the air war is quite interesting, with maps depicting German zeppelin raids over England, London's air defenses, and British air raids on Germany.  The section on the naval war has interesting maps of the British blockade, food riots in Germany, Allied merchant ship losses in the Mediterranean and in British waters, and American ship-building. The section on 1917 is better than the earlier sections on 1915-1916, with very nice maps of the underground mines at Messines Ridge, 3rd Ypres and several maps on the Eastern Front. The section on 1918 is also interesting, although the belated inclusion of a single map on the Italian Front is rather telling about the Anglo-centric nature of this volume.  Certainly the most informative section of the Atlas is that covering the world at war, which has maps depicting the various war aims, India and the Commonwealth's contributions, British munitions production and British supplies to the Allies.  The aftermath section is also useful for understanding the various treaties,	2003-07-25
1044406:US	52533596	R21TUVKHJSYCDG	0142002801	435949952	The Fall of Berlin 1945	Books	4	19	25	N	N	Dark Victory	Once upon a time, there was a horrific war between two tyrants, named Hitler and Stalin, who each wanted to dominate Europe.  After four years of horrific warfare in which millions died on both sides, the armies of Stalin stormed Hitler's capital in Berlin.  In a final fury of destruction, the armies of Stalin demonstrated the brutality and terror that were inherent in Communism.  Antony Beevor's The Fall of Berlin 1945 is a patchwork dramatization of this climatic downfall of Fascism and triumph of Communism.  While The Fall of Berlin is certainly not a military history, it does provide insight into military issues, as well as emphasis on social and political events.<br />Beevor is effective in putting a human face on the final weeks of Nazi Germany, but is less sure in his moral footing.  Although Beevor is relentless in cataloging the misbehavior of Soviet troops and the perfidy of Communist leaders, he fails to note that there was very little to distinguish between the systems of Hitler and Stalin.  The \\"heroic\\" Red Army soldiers were certainly not seen as liberators in Poland - a country they had helped Hitler dismember six years earlier.  Indeed, the list of Stalin's prior aggressions against Poland, Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Romania make it hard to depict these rampaging Soviet hordes as a heroic \\"band of brothers.\\"  Nor does Beevor mention that unlike the Allies, the Soviet Union annexed land from the defeated Germany - Konigsberg became Kaliningrad (still part of Russia even today).  The result of the Soviet victory was the imposition of a communist police state on Eastern Europe for four decades.  While there is little doubt that Nazi Germany deserved its fate, Beevor's book - while relatively impartial - tends to paint the fall of Berlin as the Soviet Union's finest hour.<br /> On the military side, Beevor's book is useful for several things.  First, the exposition of Marshal Zhukov's numerous mistakes and clumsy handling of the final offensive reinforces other research by David Glantz about Zhukov's mistakes in 1941-1942.  Taken together, the picture that emerges of Zhukov is not \\"the general who never lost a battle\\" but rather, the general who needlessly sacrificed tens of thousands of his soldiers' lives.  A second and related issue is the widespread brutality of Soviet troops as they entered German territory, which only stiffened German resolve to fight to the death and increased Soviet losses.  Beevor mentions heavy Soviet casualties in the drive to Berlin, but he fails to note that the Soviets suffered about 300,000 dead in the advance from Warsaw to Berlin, while the Anglo-Americans lost only about 60,000 in the last five months of the war.  Furthermore, Soviet brutality in Eastern Europe helped to engender a fear and mistrust in Western Europe that would enable the creation of NATO a few years later.  Thus, for the sake of revenge the Soviets suffered five times as many casualties as the Allies, and for the sake of political orthodoxy in occupied territory they facilitated the creation of a united front against the Soviet Union.<br /> Probably one of the best parts of Beevor's book is his focus on the escape of parts of the German 9th Army from the Oder-Neisse line to the Elbe River and the counterattack by Wenck's 12th Army eastward to facilitate this withdrawal.  Few accounts on Berlin spend much time on the fate of the German forces outside Berlin but this anabasis of 80,000 soldiers across Soviet-occupied Germany makes for fascinating reading (about 25,000 made it to the Elbe and American captivity).  Beevor also does a good job commenting on German armor units in the final battles (he was an armor officer in the British Army) and given the scarcity of fuel, it is amazing that the Germans were able to keep any King Tigers moving in the Berlin pocket as late as 30 April 1945.  Beevor tends to denigrate most German units as ad hoc groups of old men and boys, but he does not often acknowledgethe residual fighting power of this defeated army; in the last five months of the war, the Soviets admitted losing 8,700 tanks and 5,000 SP guns.  Not bad for old men and boys with panzerfausts!  In fact, the Red Army had not truly digested all the lessons of combined arms warfare and were prone to charge into urban areas without sufficient infantry, as Beevor notes at Poznan.  Furthermore, the Red Army suffered terribly from fratricide, particularly when too many forces were packed into small areas.<br /> There is also a bit more detail on the defenses of Berlin in Beevor's account, than earlier accounts by Ryan and Toland.  In Beevor's account, it is clear that very little effort was made to erect defenses outside Berlin, and that the defenders consisted primarily of the survivors of the 56th Panzer Corps that retreated into the city, augmented by about 40,000 Volksturm.  Given the fight that these beat-up units put up, one could imagine how much tougher this battle would have gone if Hitler had pulled all his SS units back from Hungary to defend the capital.  In the end however, the Soviet victory - accomplished clumsily and at great cost - was a dark victory of one totalitarian system over another, and a victory that would take decades for the people of Eastern Europe to recover.ledge the residual fighting power of this defeated army; in the last five months of the war, the Soviets admitted losing 8,700 tanks and 5,000 SP guns.  Not bad for old men and boys with panzerfausts!  In fact, the Red Army had not truly digested all the lessons of combined arms warfare and were prone to charge into urban areas without sufficient infantry, as Beevor notes at Poznan.  Furthermore, the Red Army suffered terribly from fratricide, particularly when too many forces were packed into small areas.  <br /> There is also a bit more detail on the defenses of Berlin in Beevor's account, than earlier accounts by Ryan and Toland.  In Beevor's account, it is clear that very little effort was made to erect defenses outside Berlin, and that the defenders consisted primarily of the survivors of the 56th Panzer Corps that retreated into the city, augmented by about 40,000 Volksturm.  Given the fight that these beat-up units put up, one could imagine how much tougher this battle would have gone if Hitler had pulled all his SS units back from Hungary to defend the capital.  In the end however, the Soviet victory - accomplished clumsily and at great cost - was a dark victory of one totalitarian system over another, and a victory that would take decades for the people of Eastern Europe to recover.	2003-07-18
1065058:US	52533596	R9NTUYM09FHRW	1841765767	939017722	Lines of Torres Vedras 1809-11	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Is There Really an Impregnable Defense?	Although the Peninsula War of 1809-1814 has attracted a great deal of attention from historians, the extensive fortifications built in Portugal and known as the Lines of Torres Vedras have received very little attention.  As Peninsula War expert Ian Fletcher notes in Osprey's Fortress volume #7 on that subject, only two previous books have focused specifically on these defenses which were so critical to the Duke of Wellington's operational planning.  Indeed, Fletcher refers to the lines as \\"one of the best kept secrets in military history\\" and he describes the role these defenses played in halting and reversing the French invasion of Portugal in 1810.<br /> The Lines of Torres Vedras 1809-1811 begins with a short introduction and chronology, followed by short sections on the design and development of the lines, Wellington's method of defense, the forts, life in the lines, aftermath and the lines today. Fletcher provides one very nice, 2-page color map of the lines, 2 period maps of the lines, and a map depicting Marshall Massena's retreat.  The color plates by artist Bill Younghusband are decent, if not great (constructing one of the forts in the line, a cross-section of the great redoubt at Sobral, Forts 40-42, Fort San Vicente, Wellington inspecting French positions, and attacking a scarped hillside).<br /> Wellington, ordered the construction of an extensive defensive position north of Lisbon in October 1809 in order to provide a final redoubt for the British if pressed by French invasion.  Thousands of Portuguese civilians were used as the workforce to construct two main lines of defense, centered upon the craggy hilltops north of their capital.  Construction required about one year and the result was a defensive system that stretched over 30 miles from the Atlantic coast to the Tagus River.  In addition, Wellington's engineers put a major effort into countermobility operations, destroying all bridges and roads north of the lines to impede any French advance.  As Fletcher notes, the lines were not a continuous barrier but a series of forts with interlocking fields of fire, barriers and defenses in depth.  Wellington also instituted a \\"scorched earth\\" policy north of the lines, destroying grain and livestock as well as evacuating Portuguese civilians, in order to deny the French a source of food or labor.<br /> The lines were finished just in time, as Marshal Massena's army approached Lisbon in October 1810.  Wellington manned the fortifications themselves with 30,000 Portuguese troops and over 400 cannon, leaving his 29,000 British troops as a mobile reserve to counterattack any French penetration.  Massena's army, already punished by a difficult march across Portugal and the painful Battle of Bussaco two weeks earlier, was dismayed when they bumped into the unexpectedly formidable Allied defenses.  After sniffing around the east end of the lines for a month - including mounting a minor probe at one small section - the poorly-supplied French army began to withdraw.<br /> In Fletcher's assessment, the Lines of Torres Vedras were \\"a total success\\" because they stopped the French invasion dead in its tracks.  Fletcher, as some other British historians are prone to do, even refers to the lines as \\"impregnable.\\"  Yet is there really such a thing as an \\"impregnable defense\\" or is this merely a tradition of biased hyperbole?  As Fletcher describes, most of the forts of the lines of Torres Vedras were built of dirt earthworks, some with stone walls, on top of very advantageous terrain.  However, a key weakness was that the forts had little or no overhead cover and were therefore vulnerable to plunging fire from French mortars or howitzers.  Fletcher fails to mention that Massena's army had such mortars and that they had been used to reduce the far more impressive stone fortress of Almeida only seven weeks prior.  It is also questionable whether the British had a real plan to defend the lines in time of limited visibility, such asdarkness or fog (granted, night attacks were rare in this period).  In fact, Fletcher notes that the French used the extensive fog in the area to cover their withdrawal.  However, the greatest weakness of the lines was logistical.  Although the Royal Navy brought in enough supplies to feed the British army, the Portuguese capital jammed with thousands of refugees was vulnerable to starvation.  Indeed, Fletcher estimates that about 2% of the Portuguese population starved to death in this brief period of French invasion.  What if Massena had merely begun constructing his own double line of defense, say 5 kilometers north of Torres Vedras, to keep the British in and starve the Portuguese out?  Since the British had destroyed all the roads and bridges in front of their own defenses, they would have found it difficult to attack out of the lines.<br /> Fletcher is fair in assessing that the lines remain \\"something of an enigma\\" since they were never truly tested by the French.  Unfortunately, Fletcher is less than fair in assessing why the French failed to test the defenses.  Massena's army had an extremely tenuous line of supply back to Spain, much of which was partially interdicted by guerrillas.  At best, Massena had about 55,000 troops to try and batter through a fortified line held by about 52,000 Anglo-Portuguese troops.  A 1:1 odds attack, virtually out of supply against an entrenched enemy with naval support would have been very foolhardy and could have resulted in the dissolution of the French Army of Portugal. Massena wisely chose to withdraw in order to re-supply.  Thus, the Lines of Torres Vedras have always seemed very formidable because operational circumstances were so unfavorable for the French from the start.  Yet had Napoleon decided to make a major effort in the Peninsula in 1811 and spend the effort to build up a series of logistical bases and roads into Portugal, Monsieur Wellington might have found that it took a lot more than well-sited dirt forts to stop the Grande Arm&eacute;e.uch as darkness or fog (granted, night attacks were rare in this period).  In fact, Fletcher notes that the French used the extensive fog in the area to cover their withdrawal.  However, the greatest weakness of the lines was logistical.  Although the Royal Navy brought in enough supplies to feed the British army, the Portuguese capital jammed with thousands of refugees was vulnerable to starvation.  Indeed, Fletcher estimates that about 2% of the Portuguese population starved to death in this brief period of French invasion.  What if Massena had merely begun constructing his own double line of defense, say 5 kilometers north of Torres Vedras, to keep the British in and starve the Portuguese out?  Since the British had destroyed all the roads and bridges in front of their own defenses, they would have found it difficult to attack out of the lines.<br /> Fletcher is fair in assessing that the lines remain \\"something of an enigma\\" since they were never truly tested by the French.  Unfortunately, Fletcher is less than fair in assessing why the French failed to test the defenses.  Massena's army had an extremely tenuous line of supply back to Spain, much of which was partially interdicted by guerrillas.  At best, Massena had about 55,000 troops to try and batter through a fortified line held by about 52,000 Anglo-Portuguese troops.  A 1:1 odds attack, virtually out of supply against an entrenched enemy with naval support would have been very foolhardy and could have resulted in the dissolution of the French Army of Portugal. Massena wisely chose to withdraw in order to re-supply.   Thus, the Lines of Torres Vedras have always seemed very formidable because operational circumstances were so unfavorable for the French from the start.   Yet had Napoleon decided to make a major effort in the Peninsula in 1811 and spend the effort to build up a series of logistical bases and roads into Portugal, Monsieur Wellington might have found that it took a lot more than well-sited dirt forts to stop the Grande Armée.	2003-07-01
1067105:US	52533596	R3EQXQWMH2LQV0	1841765724	159386741	Defenses of Pearl Harbor & Oahu 1907-50	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The Dinosaurs of Oahu	Osprey's Fortress #8, Defenses of Pearl Harbor & Oahu 1907-1950 by Glen Williford and Terrence McGovern, is an excellent summary of the extensive American efforts to fortify the Hawaiian Islands during the first half of the 20th Century.  This volume is also markedly superior to the authors' previous volume on US defenses in the Philippines (which lacked details on costs or duration of fortification development).  For those readers interested in the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941, this thin volume can add a great deal about the extent of American defensive preparations.  This volume is also very useful as a case study on the long-term efficacy of a specific US defense policy (i.e. was the expense worthwhile?).<br /> Defenses of Pearl Harbor & Oahu 1907-1950 begins with a short introduction on the American acquisition of Hawaii in 1898 and a chronology of US military activities in the islands.  Short sections follow on the initial plans for the defense of Oahu, building the main defenses in 1915-1925, garrison life on Oahu, defense modifications between the wars, Hawaii during the Second World War, and postwar changes.  The final sections comprise a short assessment, notes on the sites today, a bibliography and two appendices (characteristics of US coastal artillery and a list of all fixed coastal batteries on Oahu).  The volume also has three maps (Pacific overview, Oahu geography, Oahu south seacoast defenses) and eight color plates (Leahi Peak fire control complex, Fort Ruger in 1916, Fort Kamehameha in 1921, Battery Harlow in mid-1930s, range of Oahu defenses in 1941, casemating Battery Hatch in 1942, Battery Arizona, coastal battery range fans in 1940s).  The supporting photographs are also quite good.  The only shortcoming in the volume is that the authors are overly-focused on fixed coastal defenses and skimp on details of mobile forces such as aircraft or ground units - for example, they should have listed the aircraft available to the Hawaiian Air Force in December 1941 (after all, at least a few P-40 fighters participated in the defense of Pearl Harbor, unlike the coastal batteries).  <br /> Beginning in 1907 - before there was even a significant Japanese threat to Hawaii - the United States embarked upon a major effort to develop a system of coastal fortifications and batteries to protect the incipient naval facility at Pearl Harbor.  Interestingly, the US Army developed the coastal defenses for Pearl Harbor much faster than the US Navy developed the port itself (which required extensive dredging and base construction), and the US Pacific Fleet did not even homeport major units in Hawaii until 1939.  Nonetheless, Williford and McGovern note that, \\"between 1907 and 1938, the Army had spent about $150 million on the defenses of Oahu - twice as much as was spent on the naval base itself.\\"  For a cash-strapped US military, this was a huge, sustained investment (the US defense budget in the 1930s was $700-800 million per year).  <br /> The authors also do a wonderful job detailing the battery construction effort, which on paper provided Pearl Harbor with very formidable defenses against seaborne attack by 1920.  However, both the early defenses and those added in the interwar period paid little heed to the possibility of air attack; most of the batteries were sited out in the open, completely exposed to air attack or overhead shell bursts.  Although the US Army had 60 anti-aircraft guns in Hawaii by 1941, they were obsolescent types lacking modern fire control.  It was not until September 1940 that the US began adding overhead protection to some of the smaller batteries, but all the big 12\\", 14\\" and 16\\" guns in Hawaii were open-air mounts on December 7, 1941.  If the Japanese had intended to follow-up the Pearl Harbor raid with an invasion, these large coastal guns would have been easy meat for Japanese \\"Val\\" dive-bombers.  <br /> Did the millions invested in the fixed defenses of Hawaii pay-off when attack did come in December 1941?  Of course not.  Indeed, the authors are too kind in suggesting that some US Army AA guns participated in the final moments of the Japanese attack (expert Gordon Prange said they did not) and they overlook Major General Walter Short's dumb decision to leave all AA guns and ammunition locked up to prevent sabotage.  In fact, none of the fixed defenses of Oahu fired a shot against the Japanese attack that devastated the US Pacific Fleet at anchor and thus, the defenses completely failed in their mission.  It is also odd that after the Pearl Harbor attack, the US redoubled its fortification efforts on Oahu and continued to add more batteries right up to the end of the war.  The most ambitious project was the salvaging of two triple 14\\" gun turrets from the sunken USS Arizona and then mounted on coastal batteries; the first turret was operational in August 1945.  Given the overwhelming nature of US airpower by 1944, it is amazing that money and resources were still being poured into obvious dinosaur projects like coastal batteries.  There is a lesson in these pages about inertia in defense spending that might be useful for modern readers to consider.<br /> The final question this book arises is about \\"opportunity cost.\\"  If the US had not lavished so much funds on highly vulnerable and fixed fortifications, more money would have been available to the cash-starved US military of the 1930s to develop mobile weapons.  On one page, the authors provide a photograph of obsolete B-18 \\"Bolo\\" bombers on Hickam Field in the 1930s - the aircraft that comprised the bulk of the US bomber force on Oahu in December 1941.  The $150 million spent on fortifications could have been spent on improving US aircraft before the war, or buying more search planes.  Indeed, the fortifications on Oahu should provide a salutary lesson on the dangers of over-investing in legacy technology designed for only limited applications.	2003-06-30
1067109:US	52533596	R21AN071N61SA1	1841765724	159386741	Defenses of Pearl Harbor & Oahu 1907-50	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Dinosaurs of Oahu	Osprey's Fortress #8, Defenses of Pearl Harbor & Oahu 1907-1950 by Glen Williford and Terrence McGovern, is an excellent summary of the extensive American efforts to fortify the Hawaiian Islands during the first half of the 20th Century.  This volume is also markedly superior to the authors' previous volume on US defenses in the Philippines (which lacked details on costs or duration of fortification development).  For those readers interested in the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941, this thin volume can add a great deal about the extent of American defensive preparations.  This volume is also very useful as a case study on the long-term efficacy of a specific US defense policy (i.e. was the expense worthwhile?).<br /> Defenses of Pearl Harbor & Oahu 1907-1950 begins with a short introduction on the American acquisition of Hawaii in 1898 and a chronology of US military activities in the islands.  Short sections follow on the initial plans for the defense of Oahu, building the main defenses in 1915-1925, garrison life on Oahu, defense modifications between the wars, Hawaii during the Second World War, and postwar changes.  The final sections comprise a short assessment, notes on the sites today, a bibliography and two appendices (characteristics of US coastal artillery and a list of all fixed coastal batteries on Oahu).  The volume also has three maps (Pacific overview, Oahu geography, Oahu south seacoast defenses) and eight color plates (Leahi Peak fire control complex, Fort Ruger in 1916, Fort Kamehameha in 1921, Battery Harlow in mid-1930s, range of Oahu defenses in 1941, casemating Battery Hatch in 1942, Battery Arizona, coastal battery range fans in 1940s).  The supporting photographs are also quite good.  The only shortcoming in the volume is that the authors are overly-focused on fixed coastal defenses and skimp on details of mobile forces such as aircraft or ground units - for example, they should have listed the aircraft available to the Hawaiian Air Force in December 1941 (after all, at least a few P-40 fighters participated in the defense of Pearl Harbor, unlike the coastal batteries).<br /> Beginning in 1907 - before there was even a significant Japanese threat to Hawaii - the United States embarked upon a major effort to develop a system of coastal fortifications and batteries to protect the incipient naval facility at Pearl Harbor.  Interestingly, the US Army developed the coastal defenses for Pearl Harbor much faster than the US Navy developed the port itself (which required extensive dredging and base construction), and the US Pacific Fleet did not even homeport major units in Hawaii until 1939.  Nonetheless, Williford and McGovern note that, \\"between 1907 and 1938, the Army had spent about $150 million on the defenses of Oahu - twice as much as was spent on the naval base itself.\\"  For a cash-strapped US military, this was a huge, sustained investment (the US defense budget in the 1930s was $700-800 million per year).<br /> The authors also do a wonderful job detailing the battery construction effort, which on paper provided Pearl Harbor with very formidable defenses against seaborne attack by 1920.  However, both the early defenses and those added in the interwar period paid little heed to the possibility of air attack; most of the batteries were sited out in the open, completely exposed to air attack or overhead shell bursts.  Although the US Army had 60 anti-aircraft guns in Hawaii by 1941, they were obsolescent types lacking modern fire control.  It was not until September 1940 that the US began adding overhead protection to some of the smaller batteries, but all the big 12\\", 14\\" and 16\\" guns in Hawaii were open-air mounts on December 7, 1941.  If the Japanese had intended to follow-up the Pearl Harbor raid with an invasion, these large coastal guns would have been easy meat for Japanese \\"Val\\" dive-bombers.<br /> Did the millions invested in the fixed defenses of Hawaii pay-off when attack did come in December 1941?  Of course not.  Indeed, the authors are too kind in suggesting that some US Army AA guns participated in the final moments of the Japanese attack (expert Gordon Prange said they did not) and they overlook Major General Walter Short's dumb decision to leave all AA guns and ammunition locked up to prevent sabotage.  In fact, none of the fixed defenses of Oahu fired a shot against the Japanese attack that devastated the US Pacific Fleet at anchor and thus, the defenses completely failed in their mission.  It is also odd that after the Pearl Harbor attack, the US redoubled its fortification efforts on Oahu and continued to add more batteries right up to the end of the war.  The most ambitious project was the salvaging of two triple 14\\" gun turrets from the sunken USS Arizona and then mounted on coastal batteries; the first turret was operational in August 1945.  Given the overwhelming nature of US airpower by 1944, it is amazing that money and resources were still being poured into obvious dinosaur projects like coastal batteries.  There is a lesson in these pages about inertia in defense spending that might be useful for modern readers to consider.<br /> The final question this book arises is about \\"opportunity cost.\\"  If the US had not lavished so much funds on highly vulnerable and fixed fortifications, more money would have been available to the cash-starved US military of the 1930s to develop mobile weapons.  On one page, the authors provide a photograph of obsolete B-18 \\"Bolo\\" bombers on Hickam Field in the 1930s - the aircraft that comprised the bulk of the US bomber force on Oahu in December 1941.  The $150 million spent on fortifications could have been spent on improving US aircraft before the war, or buying more search planes.  Indeed, the fortifications on Oahu should provide a salutary lesson on the dangers of over-investing in legacy technology designed for only limited applications.ack did come in December 1941?  Of course not.  Indeed, the authors are too kind in suggesting that some US Army AA guns participated in the final moments of the Japanese attack (expert Gordon Prange said they did not) and they overlook Major General Walter Short's dumb decision to leave all AA guns and ammunition locked up to prevent sabotage.  In fact, none of the fixed defenses of Oahu fired a shot against the Japanese attack that devastated the US Pacific Fleet at anchor and thus, the defenses completely failed in their mission.  It is also odd that after the Pearl Harbor attack, the US redoubled its fortification efforts on Oahu and continued to add more batteries right up to the end of the war.  The most ambitious project was the salvaging of two triple 14\\" gun turrets from the sunken USS Arizona and then mounted on coastal batteries; the first turret was operational in August 1945.  Given the overwhelming nature of US airpower by 1944, it is amazing that money and resources were still being poured into obvious dinosaur projects like coastal batteries.  There is a lesson in these pages about inertia in defense spending that might be useful for modern readers to consider.<br /> The final question this book arises is about \\"opportunity cost.\\"  If the US had not lavished so much funds on highly vulnerable and fixed fortifications, more money would have been available to the cash-starved US military of the 1930s to develop mobile weapons.  On one page, the authors provide a photograph of obsolete B-18 \\"Bolo\\" bombers on Hickam Field in the 1930s - the aircraft that comprised the bulk of the US bomber force on Oahu in December 1941.  The $150 million spent on fortifications could have been spent on improving US aircraft before the war, or buying more search planes.  Indeed, the fortifications on Oahu should provide a salutary lesson on the dangers of over-investing in legacy technology designed for only limited applications.	2003-06-30
1069828:US	52533596	R3FWPKJJYM50Y	0304363103	490449246	Damned Good Show	Books	3	15	16	N	Y	Not Comparable to Other Robbinson Novels	Derek Robinson is certainly one of the best writers of wartime aviation fiction, as demonstrated in superb books like Goshawk Squadron and Piece of Cake.  In Damned Good Show, Robinson attempts to use the same winning formula that he used in six previous novels about fighter units to dramatize a notional RAF bomber squadron in 1939-1941.  However, Damned Good Show is simply not in the same league as Robbinson's previous novels.<br />It is entirely too derivative, with too much cloned from Piece of Cake but without the drama or trademark dry humour.  Indeed, there is little to laugh about in this novel.<br /> Damned Good Show consists of three episodic sections: the antics of two quirky pilots (Langham & Silk), the arrival of intelligence officer Skull Skelton, and the film producers who are sent to the squadron to make a film of a bomber raid over Germany. Unlike previous Robinson novels, character development in Damned Good Show is minimal, indeed the entire book feels like it was produced from left-overs.  The final section of the novel results in a merging of all three subplots into a rather dull and untidy mush. As in his last few novels, Robinson continues the disturbing trend of adding annoying civilian female characters into what is essentially an all-male environment.  Certainly Zoe Herrick, a fabulously wealthy Anglo-American nymphomaniac, detracts far more than she adds to Robbinson's portayal of Bomber Command.  Indeed, her marriage with pilot officer Langham is so improbable and absurd as to cause the reader to wonder why the title of the novel was not Damned Silly Show.<br /> Nor is the presence of \\"Skull\\" Skelton much of a comfort here, for readers who enjoyed him in Piece of Cake and A Good Clean Fight.  Transferred to Bomber Command, Skull appears as more of a carping whiner here, than someone with insight who will improve unit efficiency. Nor are there any interesting squadron or flight leaders in Damned Good Show; commanding officers like Rafferty or Hunt come and go as ciphers without any of the panache of someone like squadron leader Rex.<br /> Robinson's main points about Bomber Command - that it couldn't hit within five miles of most targets in night raids over Germany in 1939-1941 - are already fairly well known. Although Skull and other intellectuals raise the issue of whether the heavy losses of sustained night bombing are worthwhile, Robinson presents the case that there was little alternative in 1941.  Britain had no other means of hurting Germany or showing the Soviet Union and the USA that it was still in the fight.  Actually, Robinson is not correct in this theory and there were many others at the time who felt that the enormous resources poured into Bomber Command could have been better applied elsewhere.  If even a few hundred RAF bombers had been diverted from Bomber Command in 1941 to anti-submarine patrols, the German U-Boats would have been seriously affected.  More effort could have been put into modernizing the Desert Air Force and the RAF in Singapore, where the payoffs would have been sudden and apparent.  Instead, Britain's political leadership was bamboozled for years into wasting scarce resources and lives on a campaign that never held much promise of success.ty or Hunt come and go as ciphers without any of the panache of someone like squadron leader Rex.<br /> Robinson's main points about Bomber Command - that it couldn't hit within five miles of most targets in night raids over Germany in 1939-1941 - are already fairly well known. Although Skull and other intellectuals raise the issue of whether the heavy losses of sustained night bombing are worthwhile, Robinson presents the case that there was little alternative in 1941.  Britain had no other means of hurting Germany or showing the Soviet Union and the USA that it was still in the fight.  Actually, Robinson is not correct in this theory and there were many others at the time who felt that the enormous resources poured into Bomber Command could have been better applied elsewhere.  If even a few hundred RAF bombers had been diverted from Bomber Command in 1941 to anti-submarine patrols, the German U-Boats would have been seriously affected.  More effort could have been put into modernizing the Desert Air Force and the RAF in Singapore, where the payoffs would have been sudden and apparent.  Instead, Britain's political leadership was bamboozled for years into wasting scarce resources and lives on a campaign that never held much promise of success.	2003-06-27
1075189:US	52533596	R2FV10OEHJMZUS	0140442804	986794591	The Debacle	Books	4	35	35	N	Y	Victory is just around the corner?	Written in 1891, &Eacute;mile Zola's classic The Debacle, provides a ground level interpretation of what it is like see one's homeland suffer military defeat, foreign occupation and internal revolution.  The Debacle covers the disastrous Franco-Prussian War of 1870-1871 from the French viewpoint.  Indeed, Zola's novel is strikingly divergent from most late-19th Century European views of warfare, which saw conflict through the prism of personal glory and national aggrandizement.  This is an exceedingly grim novel, without the slightest glimmer of hope for any of the characters.  Zola depicts war in all its brutal fury, including battle, arson, murder, looting, children abandoned, treachery, and starvation.  Indeed, the four horsemen of the apocalypse always seem close at hand in The Debacle, and usually preceded by large doses of despair and anguish.<br />The Debacle consists of three sections: \\"the trap,\\" which covers the frontier battles between 6-30 August 1879; \\"the disaster,\\" which covers the Battle of Sedan on 1-2 September 1870; and \\"the aftermath,\\" which covers the period September 1870 - May 1871.  Only inadequate maps and a tendency to overuse British colloquial expressions mar the Penguin edition of Zola's classic.<br />The main military characters in the novel are part of a company in the 106th Infantry Regiment/2nd Division/7th Corps in Alsace. Jean represents \\"the reasonable, solid, peasant part\\" of France, while Maurice represents \\"the silly, crazy part which had been spoilt by the Empire, unhinged by dreams and debauches.\\"  Most of the enlisted troops are presented as mercurial - brave, hard working and stoic one moment, or lazy, undisciplined and complaining the next.  Certainly Zola sees the poor discipline of French troops, who discard weapons and equipment on marches, as evidence that the French Army had declined in quality from the legendary Grande Arm&eacute;e.  The reputation of the French army of 1870 was based on a legend that it could no longer live up to, and this army marched to Sedan, \\"like a herd of cattle lashed by the whip of fate.\\"<br />French officers, particularly at the company level were actually quite good, most of whom had risen through the ranks.  Zola depicts Lieutenant Rochas, a stalwart veteran of 27 years, as typical of \\"the legendary French trooper going through the world between his girl on one side and a bottle of good wine on the other, conquering the world singing ribald choruses.\\"  French officers are depicted as ignorant but brave, fed on the legends of Napoleonic military invincibility.  As the Battle of Sedan enters its final moments, Rochas stands, \\"flabbergasted and wild-eyed, having understood nothing so far about the campaign, he felt himself being enveloped and carried away by some superior force he could not resist anymore, even though he went on with his obstinate cry - Courage lads, victory is just around the corner.\\"  Even Captain Beaudoin, a bit of a fop, is able to display stoic bravery as his leg is amputated.  Colonel de Vineuil, the regimental commander, is brave and imperturbable but little else.  Higher level commanders are portrayed as more interested in their own comfort and careers than the welfare of the troops or the nation.<br />There is certainly no glory in Zola's depiction of war.  The battle for Bazeilles is particularly grim, and Zola has a knack for phrases like, \\"destruction was now completing its work, and nothing was left but a charnel house of scattered limbs and smoking ruins.\\"  It was also unusual for a 19th Century war novel to depict what happened to casualties and Major Bouroche's aid station in Sedan is painted in the starkest, bloodstained terms. Most conventional histories of the war shift to the Siege of Paris after the surrender at Sedan, failing to note what happened to the 80,000 French prisoners of war.  Zola gives the reader a vivid depiction of the suffering of these troops who were crammed into a small, disease-infested area, with no food for over a week.<br />Zola sees the debacle as a crime - \\"the murder of a nation.\\" - with Emperor Napoleon III merely awaiting fate.  Who was responsible for the crime?  Through the civilian Delaherche, the capitalist, Zola points to opposition politicians in the legislature for failing to provide enough funds for military preparedness.  At the grunt level, the troops blame their division and corps commanders - \\"the whole absence of any plan or energetic leadership were precipitating the disaster.\\"  Zola also points to the collapse of the French logistic system early in the war, which left troops unfed and short of ammunition, as attributable to shoddy staff work and a spastic command and control system.  After the first defeats on the frontier, pessimism rapidly replaces blind optimism in the French ranks and a sense of the inevitability of defeat develops.  Maurice concludes that, \\"we were bound to be beaten on account of causes the inevitable results of which were plain for all to see, the collision of unintelligent bravery with superior numbers and cool method.\\"<br /> Are there lessons for modern readers in Zola's 112-year old novel?  Certainly an obvious point that Zola hammers home through his characters is that national security should be based on realistic assessments of one's own strengths and weaknesses, and not based merely on past reputations.  While the French military was given the physical tools for modern war - the chassepot rifle and the mitrailleuse - the upper leadership did not possess the intellectual or emotional stamina for modern warfare.  Zola also makes points about the nuts and bolts of foreign military occupation and military government that are just as relevant today in Baghdad as they were in Sedan.  Finally, while Zola waffles on whether or not war is a \\"necessary evil,\\" he certainly makes the point that given its inherently high cost in human suffering that it should only be embarked upon for reasons of national survival, and not merely to satisfy the whims of an opportunistic politician.ood for over a week.  <br />Zola sees the debacle as a crime - \\"the murder of a nation.\\" - with Emperor Napoleon III merely awaiting fate.  Who was responsible for the crime?  Through the civilian Delaherche, the capitalist, Zola points to opposition politicians in the legislature for failing to provide enough funds for military preparedness.   At the grunt level, the troops blame their division and corps commanders - \\"the whole absence of any plan or energetic leadership were precipitating the disaster.\\"  Zola also points to the collapse of the French logistic system early in the war, which left troops unfed and short of ammunition, as attributable to shoddy staff work and a spastic command and control system.   After the first defeats on the frontier, pessimism rapidly replaces blind optimism in the French ranks and a sense of the inevitability of defeat develops.  Maurice concludes that, \\"we were bound to be beaten on account of causes the inevitable results of which were plain for all to see, the collision of unintelligent bravery with superior numbers and cool method.\\"  <br /> Are there lessons for modern readers in Zola's 112-year old novel?  Certainly an obvious point that Zola hammers home through his characters is that national security should be based on realistic assessments of one's own strengths and weaknesses, and not based merely on past reputations.  While the French military was given the physical tools for modern war - the chassepot rifle and the mitrailleuse - the upper leadership did not possess the intellectual or emotional stamina for modern warfare.  Zola also makes points about the nuts and bolts of foreign military occupation and military government that are just as relevant today in Baghdad as they were in Sedan.  Finally, while Zola waffles on whether or not war is a \\"necessary evil,\\" he certainly makes the point that given its inherently high cost in human suffering that it should only be embarked upon for reasons of national survival, and not merely to satisfy the whims of an opportunistic politician.	2003-06-24
1078635:US	52533596	R2SHBQNVJA7DUP	0304357049	907550337	The Somme (Fields of Battle)	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	Good Narrative, Polemical Conclusions	At first glance, the latest volume in Cassell's Field of Battle series - The Somme by Gary Sheffield - is a disappointment from the previous high quality in this series.  Unlike the previous volumes, such as Cannae, Gettysburg and Tannenberg, The Somme is physically smaller and shorter.  Furthermore, the color battle maps in the previous volumes have been supplanted with less appealing black and white maps.  In terms of content, Professor Sheffield delivers a sound narrative of the Battle of the Somme from July-November 1916 (a lot to cover in only 168 pages).  Yet while Sheffield is quite good in dealing with facts, his subjective opinions and conclusions are less certain.  In short, Sheffield wants to build a case that the Battle of the Somme was not an &quot;unmitigated disaster,&quot; but a qualified success, of sorts.<br />The Somme consists of six chapters, with 34 pages concerning the infamous first day of the campaign and three other chapters covering the follow-on battles.  The author provides a detailed order of battle for the Commonwealth forces (although corps assignments are not listed), a much less detailed German order of battle (no corps listed), and nothing for the French.  The bibliography and footnotes are also considerably less than other volumes in the series.  The 12 black and white maps generally support the campaign narrative very well (although French attacks are only detailed on one map) but the lack of color makes it difficult to distinguish different advance lines, which differ only slightly in shading.  The photographs are also good, if not particularly unique.<br />Professor Sheffield's hypothesis is broadly similar to Paddy Griffith's Battle Tactics of the Western Front (1994), that the British High Command had little choice but to launch protracted offensives to wear down the Germans and that these offensives, while costly, were not a mere waste of lives.  While Sheffield admits that the Somme was essentially an attritional battle, rather than a breakthrough battle, he asserts that the campaign ended in an Allied success.  Sheffield quotes an obscure German captain that, &quot;the Somme was the muddy grave of the German field army,&quot; to support his claim that the British offensive successfully eroded the German army.  Indeed, Sheffield goes so far as to make the silly claim that the German army was reduced to &quot;a militia&quot; due to heavy losses in officers and NCOs, and that the eventual German collapse in 1918 was a direct result of the pounding received on the Somme two years earlier.  In the short run, Sheffield also uses the German withdrawal to the Hindenburg Line in 1917 as &quot;proof&quot; that the Germans had been defeated on the Somme and that they could not withstand another such battle.  However, none of these assertions really prove a German defeat or British victory on the Somme.  If both sides suffered about 600,000 casualties on the Somme, it is hard to see how the much larger German Army could afford these losses less than the manpower-restricted British.<br />Sheffield also concurs with Paddy Griffith that the British Army learned a great deal of tactical knowledge on the Somme  - albeit at high cost - that would contribute to success in 1918.  Certainly the Battle of Morval and the capture of Thiepval indicated that the British had learned to use their artillery more effectively and that it was possible to seize limited objectives at modest cost in lives.  However, if the British Army learned lessons on the Somme, so did the Germans, who adopted a new doctrine for &quot;elastic defense&quot; that would cost the Allies dearly in 1917.  Thus while Sheffield explains that both sides learned valuable lessons on the Somme, he fails to demonstrate that the British gained a significant doctrinal advantage over the Germans.<br />There is a great deal that must be left unsaid to propose a theory that the British &quot;won&quot; the Battle of the Somme.  Sheffield completely ignores the fact that the Germans began transferring over one million troops back from the Eastern Front in 1917 and that they were able to mount the powerful &quot;Kaiserschlact&quot; offensive in early 1918.  There is not a word here of the &quot;backs to the wall&quot; period for the BEF in 1918, where the German Army was clearly not reduced to &quot;a militia.&quot;  Nor is there a word about the American contribution to victory, and even the French participation in the Somme is little covered after the first day.  Finally, the author makes little effort to assess the damage done to the British Army by this four-month slugfest, other than to note the &quot;amazing&quot; resiliency of the British troops to fight on despite heavy losses and hardship.  Sheffield even has the audacity to claim that since the British were losing inexperienced troops (the New Army) in exchange for German veterans, the casualties were not so serious for the British (whose own pre-war regulars had been destroyed in 1914).<br /> In retrospect, it would be difficult for any sober analysis to view the Battle of the Somme as much of success and Professor Sheffield's hypothesis should be treated as polemical rather than objective.  Aside from the disastrous first day of the offensive, the British lost tens of thousands of troops for insignificant objectives.  In one case, the Australians suffered 23,000 casualties in a week - more than they suffered in months at Gallipoli - in the unsuccessful attempt to seize &quot;Moo Cow Farm.&quot;  Indeed, if one looks at the area carved out of the German defenses by the four month offensive, it is obvious that not a single major town, road intersection or key piece of terrain is located in this area.  What Sheffield's book delivers is a good blow-by-blow account of a long campaign, but it fails to deliver a balanced assessment that this campaign drained both sides.letely ignores the fact that the Germans began transferring over one million troops back from the Eastern Front in 1917 and that they were able to mount the powerful &quot;Kaiserschlact&quot; offensive in early 1918.  There is not a word here of the &quot;backs to the wall&quot; period for the BEF in 1918, where the German Army was clearly not reduced to &quot;a militia.&quot;  Nor is there a word about the American contribution to victory, and even the French participation in the Somme is little covered after the first day.  Finally, the author makes little effort to assess the damage done to the British Army by this four-month slugfest, other than to note the &quot;amazing&quot; resiliency of the British troops to fight on despite heavy losses and hardship.  Sheffield even has the audacity to claim that since the British were losing inexperienced troops (the New Army) in exchange for German veterans, the casualties were not so serious for the British (whose own pre-war regulars had been destroyed in 1914).  <br /> In retrospect, it would be difficult for any sober analysis to view the Battle of the Somme as much of success and Professor Sheffield's hypothesis should be treated as polemical rather than objective.  Aside from the disastrous first day of the offensive, the British lost tens of thousands of troops for insignificant objectives.  In one case, the Australians suffered 23,000 casualties in a week - more than they suffered in months at Gallipoli - in the unsuccessful attempt to seize &quot;Moo Cow Farm.&quot;  Indeed, if one looks at the area carved out of the German defenses by the four month offensive, it is obvious that not a single major town, road intersection or key piece of terrain is located in this area.  What Sheffield's book delivers is a good blow-by-blow account of a long campaign, but it fails to deliver a balanced assessment that this campaign drained both sides.	2003-06-22
1088496:US	52533596	R34X9VXV8WYO6N	0304357049	907550337	The Somme (Fields of Battle)	Books	3	10	12	N	Y	Good Narrative, Polemical Conclusions	At first glance, the latest volume in Cassell's Field of Battle series - The Somme by Gary Sheffield - is a disappointment from the previous high quality in this series.  Unlike the previous volumes, such as Cannae, Gettysburg and Tannenberg, The Somme is physically smaller and shorter.  Furthermore, the color battle maps in the previous volumes have been supplanted with less appealing black and white maps).  The result is a book that is considerably shorter and less graphically appealing than the previous volumes in the series.  In terms of content, Professor Sheffield delivers a sound narrative of the Battle of the Somme from July-November 1916 (a lot to cover in only 168 pages).  Yet while Sheffield is quite good in dealing with facts, his subjective opinions and conclusions are less certain.  In short, Sheffield wants to build a case that the Battle of the Somme was not an &quot;unmitigated disaster,&quot; but a qualified success, of sorts.  <br />The Somme consists of six chapters, with 34 pages concerning the infamous first day of the campaign and three other chapters covering the follow-on battles.  The author provides a detailed order of battle for the Commonwealth forces (although corps assignments are not listed), a much less detailed German order of battle (no corps listed), and nothing for the French.  The bibliography and footnotes are also considerably less than other volumes in the series.  The 12 black and white maps generally support the campaign narrative very well (although French attacks are only detailed on one map) but the lack of color makes it difficult to distinguish different advance lines, which differ only slightly in shading.  The photographs are also good, if not particularly unique.  <br />Professor Sheffield's hypothesis is broadly similar to Paddy Griffith's Battle Tactics of the Western Front (1994), that the British High Command had little choice but to launch protracted offensives to wear down the Germans and that these offensives, while costly, were not a mere waste of lives.  While Sheffield admits that the Somme was essentially an attritional battle, rather than a breakthrough battle, he asserts that the campaign ended in an Allied success.  Sheffield quotes an obscure German captain (who was Captain von Hentig anyway?)  that, &quot;the Somme was the muddy grave of the German field army,&quot; to support his claim that the British offensive successfully eroded the German army.  Indeed, Sheffield goes so far as to make the silly claim that the German army was reduced to &quot;a militia&quot; due to heavy losses in officers and NCOs, and that the eventual German collapse in 1918 was a direct result of the pounding received on the Somme two years earlier.  In the short run, Sheffield also uses the German withdrawal to the Hindenburg Line in 1917 as &quot;proof&quot; that the Germans had been defeated on the Somme and that they could not withstand another such battle.  However, none of these assertions really prove a German defeat or British victory on the Somme.  If both sides suffered about 600,000 casualties on the Somme, it is hard to see how the much larger German Army could afford these losses less than the manpower-restricted British.  <br />Sheffield also concurs with Paddy Griffith that the British Army learned a great deal of tactical knowledge on the Somme  - albeit at high cost - that would contribute to success in 1918.  Certainly the Battle of Morval and the capture of Thiepval indicated that the British had learned to use their artillery more effectively and that it was possible to seize limited objectives at modest cost in lives.  However, if the British Army learned lessons on the Somme, so did the Germans, who adopted a new doctrine for &quot;elastic defense&quot; that would cost the Allies dearly in 1917.  Thus while Sheffield explains that both sides learned valuable lessons on the Somme, he fails to demonstrate that the British gained a significant doctrinal advantage over the Germans.  <br />There is a great deal that must be left unsaid to propose a theory that the British &quot;won&quot; the Battle of the Somme.  Sheffield completely ignores the fact that the Germans began transferring over one million troops back from the Eastern Front in 1917 and that they were able to mount the powerful &quot;Kaiserschlact&quot; offensive in early 1918.  There is not a word here of the &quot;backs to the wall&quot; period for the BEF in 1918, where the German Army was clearly not reduced to &quot;a militia.&quot;  Nor is there a word about the American contribution to victory, and even the French participation in the Somme is little covered after the first day.  Finally, the author makes little effort to assess the damage done to the British Army by this four-month slugfest, other than to note the &quot;amazing&quot; resiliency of the British troops to fight on despite heavy losses and hardship (stiff upper lip time!).  Sheffield even has the audacity to claim that since the British were losing inexperienced troops (the New Army) in exchange for German veterans, the casualties were not so serious for the British (whose own pre-war regulars had been destroyed in 1914).  <br /> In retrospect, it would be difficult for any sober analysis to view the Battle of the Somme as much of success and Professor Sheffield's hypothesis should be treated as polemical rather than objective.  Aside from the disastrous first day of the offensive, the British lost tens of thousands of troops for insignificant objectives.  In one case, the Australians suffered 23,000 casualties in a week - more than they suffered in months at Gallipoli - in the unsuccessful attempt to seize &quot;Moo Cow Farm.&quot;  Indeed, if one looks at the area carved out of the German defenses by the four month offensive, it is obvious that not a single major town, road intersection or key piece of terrain is located in this area.  What Sheffield's book delivers is a good blow-by-blow account of a long campaign, but it fails to deliver a balanced assessment that this campaign drained both sides.	2003-06-14
1095601:US	52533596	R2UWPJE5QQ8YJD	030436312X	298731949	Piece of Cake (Cassell Military Paperbacks)	Books	5	35	35	N	Y	Good Tips on How to Win Dogfights	Piece of Cake is much more than just a very well written war novel - which it is.  In Piece of Cake, aviation author Derek Robinson uses the small group genre by focuses on the notional \\"Hornet squadron\\" as a means to bring to light many of the Royal Air Force's doctrinal, equipment and personnel deficiencies in the first year of the Second War.  Piece of Cake is also a darn good examination of character and leadership - or lack of - in warfare.  Typically, \\"the few\\" who flew for Britain in 1939-1941 are presented as an exemplary elite, who sacrificed themselves for the greater good.  In Piece of Cake, Robinson may have angered those who favored such a hallowed historiography, but he gives the reader a greater insight into what was probably much closer to the actual mark in Fighter Command in this early phase of the war.  Indeed, it would be fair to rank Piece of Cake among the best war novels ever written.<br /> Robinson's plot line follows the notional Hornet Squadron from 1 September 1939 to 15 September 1940, and the unit is equipped with Hurricane I and II fighters (not Spitfires, as in the film version).  The reader is presented with three different leadership styles in the squadron leaders: the self-destructive style of Ramsey, the arrogant style of Rex and the fatalistic style of \\"Fanny\\" Barton.  The squadron adjutant \\"Uncle\\" Kellaway and the intelligence officer \\"Skull\\" Skelton also add considerable depth on the human and scientific sides of warfare. The pilots themselves are a pretty stock bunch, as they are in most Robinson novels, with the exceptions of the sociopath \\"Moggy\\" Cattermole and the American, Chris Hart.  Indeed, one of the major differences between the book and the film is the relationship between \\"Moggy\\" and Squadron Leader Rex, which is never explained in the film.  In the book, Robinson paints \\"Moggy\\" in the role of the \\"squadron enforcer,\\" who is fiercely loyal to Rex due to perks provided.  Indeed, \\"Moggy\\" even kills to protect Rex, which is odd for a character that displays no loyalty to anyone else in the squadron.<br /> Robinson's portrayal of the RAF's inadequate tactics and doctrine is quite interesting.  In particular, the large formation \\"fighting area attacks\\" put the RAF at a major disadvantage against the Luftwaffe's more fluid \\"finger four\\" tactics.  Indeed, through A Piece of Cake, the reader is presented with a year's worth of tactical and doctrinal evolution in the RAF, with the initial faulty methods yielding grudgingly to more sensible means of waging air warfare.  Robinson also seems to include every fighter pilot \\"lesson learned\\" in A Piece of Cake, which makes the novel virtually a primer for dog fighting (e.g. never climb away from the sun, don't always break left - the favored direction).  Yet despite Hornet Squadron's tactical improvements, Robinson shows that survival in warfare still comes down to a certain matter of luck, as even the veteran pilots succumb to mistakes and fatigue.  Few other accounts of the Battle of Britain demonstrate how punishing the August-September 1940 campaign was to RAF fighter squadrons as well as Robinson's fictional account.<br /> Probably the only defect in A Piece Cake is the lack of perspective from the enemy side.  In Robinson's later A Good Clean Fight, he does provide some insight from the enemy perspective, but this is lacking in A Piece of Cake.  The number of squadron veteran pilots is ever dwindling in the face of the massed Luftwaffe attacks, but the results are uncertain given Skull's exposure of dubious pilot \\"kill\\" claims.  In Robinson's novel, the reader is unsure who is actually winning the Battle of Britain (certainly the actual participants would have been uncertain at that moment, too), but it is suggested that the British are exaggerating their \\"kill\\" claims for propaganda purposes.  Certainly in retrospect, the Battle of Britain seems more like a \\"goal line stand\\" than an outright victory, but Robinson's portrayal may strikesome readers (armed with knowledge of the end result) as ambiguous or even defeatist in tone.  Furthermore, the Luftwaffe also suffered from faulty doctrine (being designed as a tactical, not a strategic bombing force) and inadequate equipment (short-range Me-109s, the clumsy Me-110).  If Robinson had provided a bit of enemy perspective, even with a captured pilot or two, this might have shown that the campaign was punishing and frustrating for both sides.strike some readers (armed with knowledge of the end result) as ambiguous or even defeatist in tone.  Furthermore, the Luftwaffe also suffered from faulty doctrine (being designed as a tactical, not a strategic bombing force) and inadequate equipment (short-range Me-109s, the clumsy Me-110).  If Robinson had provided a bit of enemy perspective, even with a captured pilot or two, this might have shown that the campaign was punishing and frustrating for both sides.	2003-06-08
1095883:US	52533596	R10HWP9PLX74FQ	1841763985	287267408	The Italian Army of World War I (Men-at-Arms)	Books	3	14	17	N	Y	Lacks Detail, Specificity	Normally, Dr. David Nicolle, a prolific Osprey author and specialist in ancient and medieval history, concentrates on pre-modern topics.  However, in Osprey's Men-at-Arms #387, The Italian Army of World War I, Dr. Nicolle makes a rare sortie into describing a modern military organization.  Certainly, the Italian Army of the First World War is a neglected subject and certainly deserves one or more volumes in this series.  Unfortunately, Dr. Nicolle does not really have the knack for writing about this kind of subject and the coverage is less organized than in other similar volumes on First World War armies.  The Italian Army of World War I fills the vacuum of a short, English-language summary of the Italian army in 1915-1918, but it skims the surface a bit too thinly in too many important areas.<br />  In terms of organization, The Italian Army of World War I begins with a short background on Italy's entry into the war, a chronology and the various fronts on which the Italians fought.  Short sections then cover army mobilization and strength, line infantry, elite and specialist troops, weapons, cavalry and mechanized troops, artillery, engineers, support troops and colonial troops.  The eight pages of color plates of uniforms are excellent and well worth the price of the volume.  On the surface, this structure appears to address all the key points of the Italian Army in the First World - at least until one starts to compare it to other volumes in the same series.  There are some glaring omissions - like an order of battle for the Italian Army in either 1915 or 1917-1918, or a table listing the rank structure.<br />  Certainly the most glaring omissions come in terms of the lack of detail in the area of military organization.  Dr. Nicolle fails to discuss the organization of Italian divisions or corps in any detail, noting for example that Italian divisions started the war with an organic artillery regiment, but then failing to note how many artillery pieces or what caliber these included.  Similarly, Nicolle discusses changes in the Italian infantry battalions, but fails to discuss changes at division or corps level.  Readers are not even given an authorized strength for any units above battalion level, so it is difficult using this source to compare Italian units with Austrian or German units (where they smaller? Did they have less firepower?).  Nicolle does note some of the changes toward a more all-arms composition in the Italian Army, with battalions including less infantry in exchange for mortars and machineguns by 1918.  It is also significant that there is absolutely no discussion of doctrine in this study - certainly the author could have made at least brief mention of the underpinnings of Italian strategy in the war.<br />  Readers might also note that Dr. Nicolle treats the Italian theaters of war rather oddly, with equal attention given to the Isonzo and Balkan fronts, with virtually no mention of the Trentino front.  The inclusion of the Libyan campaign - all two pages - was a waste of space, since the Sanussi tribesmen opposing Italian colonial rule were certainly not part of the Central Powers, nor was fighting there part of the First World War.  Somehow, the author also managed to make it through this study without mentioning that Italy suffered over 460,000 military deaths in the war, yet found the space to tell us about what kind of buttons the Italian Army wore on its jackets.  In sum, this volume lacks the detail and specificity of other similar Osprey short studies of First World War armies, and wanders about in search of relevance.r what caliber these included.  Similarly, Nicolle discusses changes in the Italian infantry battalions, but fails to discuss changes at division or corps level.  Readers are not even given an authorized strength for any units above battalion level, so it is difficult using this source to compare Italian units with Austrian or German units (where they smaller? Did they have less firepower?).  Nicolle does note some of the changes toward a more all-arms composition in the Italian Army, with battalions including less infantry in exchange for mortars and machineguns by 1918.  It is also significant that there is absolutely no discussion of doctrine in this study - certainly the author could have made at least brief mention of the underpinnings of Italian strategy in the war.  <br />     Readers might also note that Dr. Nicolle treats the Italian theaters of war rather oddly, with equal attention given to the Isonzo and Balkan fronts, with virtually no mention of the Trentino front.  The inclusion of the Libyan campaign - all two pages - was a waste of space, since the Sanussi tribesmen opposing Italian colonial rule were certainly not part of the Central Powers, nor was fighting there part of the First World War.  Somehow, the author also managed to make it through this study without mentioning that Italy suffered over 460,000 military deaths in the war, yet found the space to tell us about what kind of buttons the Italian Army wore on its jackets.  In sum, this volume lacks the detail and specificity of other similar Osprey short studies of First World War armies, and wanders about in search of relevance.	2003-06-08
1096061:US	52533596	R1DKGU27IHEFBQ	1841763349	350358984	Marston Moor 1644: The Beginning Of The End (Campaign)	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	Decent, No Frills	In Osprey's Campaign #119 Marston Moor 1644, John Tincey summarizes one of the more decisive battles of the English Civil War that lost northern England for the King Charles I.  This summary is more interesting than the previous volume on First Newbury, and while the author tends to digress on issues of historiography, he does provide a relatively clean campaign narrative.<br />  In standard Osprey campaign series format, Marston Moor 1644 begins with short sections on the background to the campaign and opposing commanders.  The section on opposing armies is unusually long at 22 pages (plus two more pages for the actual order of battle), and includes subsections on deployment and fighting tactics.  Unfortunately, much of this space devoted to opposing armies is spent discussing and comparing various modern theories about unknown or controversial aspects of the campaign.  Most readers will probably find this section tedious and distracting from the campaign narrative.  The author then spends 14 pages on the early stages of the campaign, particularly the relief of York, and then covers the battle itself in 26 pages.  The campaign narrative is supported by five 2-D maps (the opening campaigns of 1644, the siege of York, Rupert's march north, the relief of York, and the aftermath of Marston Moor) as well as three 3-D Birds Eye View maps of the battle itself.  The three battle scenes by Graham Turner (probably Osprey's best contract artist) are excellent: the relief of York, Cromwell's Ironsides charging and the last stand of the Whitecoats.<br />  Most of the military actions of the English Civil War appear confusing to modern American readers and herein lies the value of studying such conflicts.  Unlike our own Civil War, which was fairly linear in nature, the English Civil War was set in a more fluid and non-linear environment.  From the King's perspective, the enemy lay in the southeast, southwest and northeast.  This non-linear combat environment and low force density resulted in very mobile operational methods and control of population centers (with attendant tax resources) became the decisive terrain.  One such piece of decisive terrain was the city of York in the northeast; the Parliamentarians besieged it and the King sent Prince Rupert's army to lift the siege.  Rupert's relief of York is probably the best part of this volume and should be studied carefully by military professionals.  The Parliamentarian army occupied a favorable blocking position on key terrain overlooking the most obvious direct route into the city and awaited Rupert's advance.  Boldly, Rupert fixed the enemy's attention with a small feint and then marched the bulk of his army across an undefended bridge far to the north and then slipped into York without firing a shot.<br />  As for the Battle of Marston Moor, Tincey does a decent job describing the battle, although it is not always clear from his account why one side or the other prevailed in certain engagements.  Clearly, the fact that Rupert's army did not expect battle to begin so late in the day and was surprised by the enemy's sudden attack was a major factor (similar to the Roman disaster at Adrianople in 378).  Tincey argues that discipline was also a factor, in that the superior Royalist cavalry was difficult to reign in after one charge, while Cromwell's Ironsides were capable of reforming quickly.  However, one could argue that it really was an issue of managing reserves, and both armies suffered from poor command and control after the initial action began at Marston Moor.  Although both sides had light cannon at Marston Moor, there is virtually no mention of their participation.  Tincey is also vague on casualties, relying instead only on a 17th Century source (no mention of modern diggings on the battlefield).low force density resulted in very mobile operational methods and control of population centers (with attendant tax resources) became the decisive terrain.  One such piece of decisive terrain was the city of York in the northeast; the Parliamentarians besieged it and the King sent Prince Rupert's army to lift the siege.  Rupert's relief of York is probably the best part of this volume and should be studied carefully by military professionals.  The Parliamentarian army occupied a favorable blocking position on key terrain overlooking the most obvious direct route into the city and awaited Rupert's advance.  Boldly, Rupert fixed the enemy's attention with a small feint and then marched the bulk of his army across an undefended bridge far to the north and then slipped into York without firing a shot.  <br />        As for the Battle of Marston Moor, Tincey does a decent job describing the battle, although it is not always clear from his account why one side or the other prevailed in certain engagements.  Clearly, the fact that Rupert's army did not expect battle to begin so late in the day and was surprised by the enemy's sudden attack was a major factor (similar to the Roman disaster at Adrianople in 378).  Tincey argues that discipline was also a factor, in that the superior Royalist cavalry was difficult to reign in after one charge, while Cromwell's Ironsides were capable of reforming quickly.  However, one could argue that it really was an issue of managing reserves, and both armies suffered from poor command and control after the initial action began at Marston Moor.  Although both sides had light cannon at Marston Moor, there is virtually no mention of their participation.  Tincey is also vague on casualties, relying instead only on a 17th Century source (no mention of modern diggings on the battlefield).	2003-06-08
1096747:US	52533596	R3SWEEHHTM3Z9	1841762210	51925074	Yom Kippur War 1973: The Sinai (Campaign 126)	Books	4	21	26	N	Y	Very Good, but Biased	Osprey's The Yom Kippur War: The Sinai is the first in a two-volume study of the 1973 Arab-Israeli War and a departure from the Campaign series normal aversion to modern topics (in the last 13 years and 126 volumes, the series has had only one other title on a post-1945 campaign).  Armor aficionado and film maker Simon Dunstan provides a detailed summary of the dramatic events between 6-24 October 1973 on the Sinai front, where the war swung between initial Egyptian success, to stalemate, to Israeli triumph.  Overall, most readers should find this volume excellent, if slightly biased toward Israel and armor issues (at the expense of air operations).<br />  The Yom Kippur War: The Sinai begins with a short introduction that covers the results of the 1967 Six Day War, the construction of the Bar Lev line and the 1969-1970 War of Attrition.  In the next section, the author covers the meticulous Egyptian planning for Operation \\"Badr\\" - the assault crossing of the Suez Canal - and the Israeli defensive plans.  The only really weak section in the entire volume is that covering opposing armies, which is only four pages in length.  Although there is considerable detailed data available on the Yom Kippur War, the author fails to incorporate it into this section.  For example, the author only mentions that the Egyptians had about 1,700 tanks, without breaking out how many there were of each model (an odd omission for an armor expert).  Both the Egyptian and Israeli air forces are fairly ignored, with no order of battle provided, or breakdown by type.  The section on opposing commanders is overly weighted toward Israel, and there are too few photos of the principal military leaders (amazingly, none of Sharon).  The Yom Kippur War: The Sinai also has too few maps to support the narrative; there are only five 2-D maps (Israel in 1973, the Bar-Lev Line, the Egyptian bridgeheads, Battle of Chinese Farm phase 1 and phase 2) and three 3-D Birds Eye View maps (the Egyptian assault, the Egyptian offensive on 14 October 1973, and the Israeli crossing of the canal).  The 3-D maps were designed to cover tactical battlefields, not entire operational areas, and these BEVs are zoomed too far out to convey much detail.  The initial Israeli counterattacks on 6-8 October and the crossing of the canal are particularly difficult to follow on these maps (critical items mentioned in the text, like the \\"Missouri\\" position are not depicted on any of the maps).  On the other hand, the three battle scenes (the Egyptian crossing of the canal, the Israeli roller bridge and Israeli tanks SAM-hunting) are quite good and add value to this volume.<br />  Dunstan's description of the Egyptian preparations for the canal crossing and the very successful deception operations are first-rate, and should be studied carefully by military readers. Indeed, Operation \\"Badr\\" was almost a model of how opposed river crossings should be conducted.  While the author mentions the defeat of the initial Israeli armor counterattacks against the crossing, he fails to discuss the simultaneous shock when the initial Israeli air counterattacks ran into the SA-6 belt along the canal.  Indeed, for an armor enthusiast, the author might have mentioned that these engagements between Egyptian commandos and Israeli armor on 6-7 October 1973 were one of the rare instances when light infantry defeated armor.  The rest of the campaign narrative covers the political pressure that resulted in the abortive Egyptian offensive of 14 October and the Israeli counterstroke that decided the campaign.  The emphasis in this account is primarily on armor operations, with little mention of the contributions of other branches and even air operations are overly neglected.  The author's background as a filmmaker also betrays itself in one indiscretion where he notes in a photograph caption that an Israeli \\"squadron of Phantom [jets] was loaded with 13 20-kiloton nuclear weapons\\" when Israeli leaders feared defeat.  Where is the source on this wild claim?  While Israel's possession of nuclear weapons has been an open secret for some time, this claim seems unusually detailed and suspect.  After the first few days of war, Israel had fewer than 90 F-4 Phantoms still operational and the author wants the reader to believe that the IAF would tie up 15% of its best strike asset to sit around on \\"nuclear strip alert.\\"  Such a preposterous claim certainly warrants a footnote or explanation.<br />  The final sections on the outcome of the war and the battlefield today are brief but interesting.  Indeed, Sadat's limited objective campaign is also a model for demonstrating Clausewitz's dictum of \\"war as an extension of politics.\\"  Unfortunately, the author's bibliography is not very impressive, consisting mostly of stock secondary sources, like Trevor Dupuy. There are also more Egyptian sources available in English than the author suggests, but the author seems but little interested in their viewpoint (even Sadat's book has considerable detail on planning for the attack).  The photographs throughout the volume are good, but heavily weighted toward armor issues and Israel, with most of the Egyptian-source photos being those normally available in most other sources on the war.red defeat.  Where is the source on this wild claim?  While Israel's possession of nuclear weapons has been an open secret for some time, this claim seems unusually detailed and suspect.  After the first few days of war, Israel had fewer than 90 F-4 Phantoms still operational and the author wants the reader to believe that the IAF would tie up 15% of its best strike asset to sit around on \\"nuclear strip alert.\\"  Such a preposterous claim certainly warrants a footnote or explanation.  <br />        The final sections on the outcome of the war and the battlefield today are brief but interesting.  Indeed, Sadat's limited objective campaign is also a model for demonstrating Clausewitz's dictum of \\"war as an extension of politics.\\"  Unfortunately, the author's bibliography is not very impressive, consisting mostly of stock secondary sources, like Trevor Dupuy. There are also more Egyptian sources available in English than the author suggests, but the author seems but little interested in their viewpoint (even Sadat's book has considerable detail on planning for the attack).  The photographs throughout the volume are good, but heavily weighted toward armor issues and Israel, with most of the Egyptian-source photos being those normally available in most other sources on the war.	2003-06-07
1116250:US	52533596	R2DTZQ9YFZC1T6	1860467938	847969284	Hornet's Sting	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	A First Class War Novel	Hornet's Sting, Derek Robinson's second novel in his trilogy on the Royal Flying Corps in the First World War, covers the fictional \\"Hornet Squadron\\" in the period January-November 1917.  This was a very rough period in the war for the British, encompassing the costly battles around Arras and Passchendaele.  In Hornet's Sting, the squadron is still commanded by Major Hugh Cleve-Cutler, who took over Hornet Squadron in the previous War Story.  Cutler continues his role with considerable aplomb, at one point quipping, \\"I wish I'd never taken this bloody silly job.  The war's all right, but the people are impossible.\\"  The squadron is initially equipped with the Sopwith Pup fighters, but gradually converts to the controversial Bristol Fighter, or \\"Bif.\\"  Hornet's Sting is easily as good as the final volume in the trilogy, Goshawk Squadron, and it is also one of Robinson's finest efforts to date.  Indeed, Hornet's Sting is one fine war novel.<br /> The first third of the volume focuses heavily on two new members of the squadron, two Russian lieutenants sent to Hornet Squadron to learn combat tactics on the Western Front.  Initially, the two officers are barely qualified to fly and the squadron spends considerable effort nurse-maiding these two.  Indeed, the British chain of command orders Major Cutler to \\"help\\" the senior Russian to become an \\"ace,\\" an achievement of which he is clearly incapable.  Robinson's insertion of these Russian characters is actually quite interesting in depicting the changes brought on inter-Allied relations by the Russian Revolution.  Eventually, in a complete reversal, Cutler is ordered to stop protecting the Russians in combat and let nature and von Richtofen) takes its course.<br /> Throughout his novels, Robinson displays a real gift for character development that is lacking in so many other books.  The readers may not like all the characters - indeed there is always at least one malignant personality in evidence - but Robinson will make even his best characters as true-to-life as possible.  The squadron adjutant (Captain Brazier) and squadron clerk (Sergeant Lacey) are still in place from the previous novel, and while they are certainly not likeable, they do enliven Hornet's Sting with their unique viewpoints.  At one point, Brazier fondly recalls, \\"I suppressed a riot once [in India].  At the market place in Peshawar.  And a very splendid suppression it was.\\"  On the other hand, Sergeant Lacey, who spends all his effort avoiding combat and enriching himself with petty thievery, is fully involved in the \\"case of the missing jam\\" - noting that, \\"the army can afford to lose millions of men, year after year.  But not a few cases of strawberry jam.  Jam matters.\\"  Lieutenant Paxton also returns from War Story - although he is much matured - and Robinson introduces the seemingly immortal Captain Stanley Woolley, who figures so prominently in Goshawk Squadron.<br /> The middle third of the novel focuses heavily on the combat debut of the Bristol fighter.  This aircraft, initially designed as a bomber or reconnaissance aircraft then turned into a fighter, was presented by the British High Command as giving the RFC a technological edge over their German opponents.  Hornet Squadron is presented with six of the new fighters and trains intensively on them for several weeks.  Unfortunately, the first combat action for the Bristol fighter was a disaster, with five of six shot down or crashed (Robinson based this on an actual incident).  The affect of this disaster on the squadron is appalling and several of the \\"old hands\\" begin to deteriorate mentally when they realize how heavily the odds are stacked against them.  Eventually, the \\"Bif\\" turned out to be a pretty good fighter, but the initial tactical doctrine was faulty - which shows how poor tactics can devalue a weapon system.  Robinson makes his best points here about aviation doctrine in the First World War in this middle section of the book, particularlyabout the frightful wastefulness of the \\"deep offensive patrols\\" that squandered the lives of partly trained pilots.  Robinson presents an RFC Commander - Trenchard - who prefers quantity (meaning many partly-trained pilots) over quality (taking the time to train them fully, but meaning fewer squadrons).<br /> The final third of the book focuses on the Third Battle of Ypres and the relentless pressure placed on the squadron to support the ground troops.  Both Paxton and a newcomer, the despised Mackenzie, figure prominently in this final act.  Paxton crashes behind enemy lines and has considerable adventures.  Mackenzie, a photogenic but bullying egomaniac, is seized upon by two American filmmakers as an excellent vehicle for presenting the glorious side of the war to the American public.  Once again, Cutler is ordered to assist in the \\"manufacture of an ace\\" for public relations purposes.  This final third of the volume starts to bog down a bit in subplots that have little to do with the squadron, and one senses Robinson running out of steam just as the Battle of Passchendaele is winding down.  My only criticisms - and they are minor ones - are that Robinson sometimes gets carried away with minor subplots that go nowhere and that his female characters are universally annoying and detract from the characters to which they attach themselves.  Indeed, Robinson always presents his female characters as overly sexually compliant (which is certainly an aviator stereotype of women) and emotionally troublesome.  In Cleve-Cutler's case, his liaison with a one-legged aristocratic whore is so absurd that Robinson only compounds it by introducing a m&eacute;nage a trois with an AWOL lieutenant (it's hard to believe that a straight-laced officer like Cutler would knowingly put up with an officer deserter for one second).  Please, Derek Robinson, stick to aviation that you do so well and leave romance novels to other folks.  Despite these distractions, Hornet's Sting is a first class war novel.larly about the frightful wastefulness of the \\"deep offensive patrols\\" that squandered the lives of partly trained pilots.  Robinson presents an RFC Commander - Trenchard - who prefers quantity (meaning many partly-trained pilots) over quality (taking the time to train them fully, but meaning fewer squadrons).  <br /> The final third of the book focuses on the Third Battle of Ypres and the relentless pressure placed on the squadron to support the ground troops.  Both Paxton and a newcomer, the despised Mackenzie, figure prominently in this final act.  Paxton crashes behind enemy lines and has considerable adventures.  Mackenzie, a photogenic but bullying egomaniac, is seized upon by two American filmmakers as an excellent vehicle for presenting the glorious side of the war to the American public.  Once again, Cutler is ordered to assist in the \\"manufacture of an ace\\" for public relations purposes.  This final third of the volume starts to bog down a bit in subplots that have little to do with the squadron, and one senses Robinson running out of steam just as the Battle of Passchendaele is winding down.  My only criticisms - and they are minor ones - are that Robinson sometimes gets carried away with minor subplots that go nowhere and that his female characters are universally annoying and detract from the characters to which they attach themselves.  Indeed, Robinson always presents his female characters as overly sexually compliant (which is certainly an aviator stereotype of women) and emotionally troublesome.  In Cleve-Cutler's case, his liaison with a one-legged aristocratic whore is so absurd that Robinson only compounds it by introducing a ménage a trois with an AWOL lieutenant (it's hard to believe that a straight-laced officer like Cutler would knowingly put up with an officer deserter for one second).  Please, Derek Robinson, stick to aviation that you do so well and leave romance novels to other folks.  Despite these distractions, Hornet's Sting is a firstclass war novel.	2003-05-21
1125845:US	52533596	RPICJFAETNL1Y	1841764213	477954639	51: The Franco-Prussian War 1870–1871 (Essential Histories)	Books	5	65	65	N	N	A Convenient and Well-Packaged Summary	Despite the fact that the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-1871 had major repercussions for later European history, there has been very works written about in the last forty years except for Michael Howard's excellent The Franco-Prussian War (1871) and Alistair Horne's The Fall of Paris (1967).  Thankfully, Sandhurst professor Stephen Badsey has written an excellent summary of the Franco-Prussian War that is not a condensation of those previous works and which constitutes a fresh look at this neglected subject.  Foremost in value, is the fact that Badsey's volume looks at the war in its entirety, rather than just the first action-packed month.  Overall, Badsey's Franco-Prussian War 1870-1871 is an excellent synopsis and reference source for this critical phase in the development of European military thought and weaponry.<br /> After some brief sections detailing the background to the war, followed by equally brief sections on the opposing sides and the outbreak of war, Stephen Badsey moves into his main 24-page narrative of the war.  This narrative is supported by ten maps: Europe in 1870, the main campaigns of the war, the battles on the frontier, the situation at Metz on 14-15 August 1870, the Battle of Mars-la-Tour, two maps on the Battle of Gravelotte-St Privat, the Battle of Sedan, the siege of Paris, and Europe after the war.  The illustrations throughout the text are also excellent.  Additionally, the concluding sections, such as Portrait of a Soldier, are also quite good.  Overall, The Franco-Prussian War 1870-1871 probably packs more into the Osprey Essential Histories format than any other volume to date.<br /> Badsey notes that the French performance in 1870 was so poor that it surprised both sides.  Despite possession of superior weaponry (early machine guns, better breech-loading rifles), the French army was handicapped by sloppy staff work and a primitive reserve mobilization system.  In essence, the French war machine was brave and well equipped, but totally disorganized.  French senior leadership, including the Emperor Napoleon III, was so terrible as to defy rationale explanation.  Amazingly, the French declared war on Prussia then had no plans or preparations for an offensive war.  Furthermore, the French were diplomatically isolated and had to face an undistracted and increasingly unified German nation-in-being.  Badsey notes that, \\"within a week of the fighting starting, two French armies ...were in full retreat.\\"  While the French army performed well at the tactical level - and came close to winning the major Battle of Gravelotte-St. Privat - it was clearly out-performed on the operational level and the two French armies always found themselves outmaneuvered by the Prussians.  After a month of war, both French field armies and the Emperor were surrounded and combat ineffective.<br /> Badsey's approach to this subject differs from the conventional interpretation, which tends to see the war as decided in the first four weeks.  In particular, Badsey notes how naval power shaped the rest of the conflict, \\"but critically for this stage of the war, Prussia had no effective navy.  French maritime trade and commerce were largely unaffected by the end of the Second Empire and so was French credit overseas; the French economy did not collapse, and the war continued to be financed, in part by borrowing on foreign money markets.  French troops were brought back from garrisons overseas and weapons shipped in from other countries.\\"  While the newly raised and poorly trained armies of the Third Republic achieved few successes on the battlefield, Badsey notes that they did succeed in protracting the war far beyond what the Prussians had expected.  Furthermore, the specter of revolution that appeared in Paris during the Communard scared the Prussians sufficiently to actually assist in rebuilding the French army in order to suppress that political cancer, lest it spread to other European countries.  Thus, in Badsey's approach, the reader is presented with a more comprehensive look at the conflict than just a discussion of the frontier battles.<br />  The Franco-Prussian War was also important for several changes in the western manner of warfare.  The first Geneva Convention agreements had been signed just prior to the war by both Prussia and France, and the conflict was the first where prisoners and enemy wounded were treated much better than had been heretofore the case.  Although war correspondents had appeared in the Crimean War and the American Civil War, their role increased in this war and the telegraph allowed them to report on the fighting in near real-time.  While Badsey claims that the Prussian \\"terror\\" bombardment of Paris was an innovation in that it targeted civilians to achieve the city's surrender, in fairness, the French should get credit for that \\"innovation\\" when Louis XIV's army used mortars to devastate the German city of Koblenz in 1688.<br /> However, Badsey's conclusion is a bit less sure, when he asserts that the result of the war was \\"the replacement of France by Germany as the dominant power in Europe.\\"  France before the war, which lacked any allies, was certainly not the \\"dominant power in Europe\\" that Badsey suggests, nor did Prussia's victory and German unification reduce Russian, British or Austrian influence in Europe.  While there is no doubt that the war enhanced Germany's military reputation, it did not alter the essentially multipolar balance of power that had been prevalent in Europe before the war.  Indeed, in the long run, the victory may have hurt Germany because France realized the need for alliances and assiduously went about coalition building for a future war.  Germany on the other hand, which fought and won the war without allies, spent much less effort on cooperative diplomacy and paid for that mistake in 1914-1918.ach, the reader is presented with a more comprehensive look at the conflict than just a discussion of the frontier battles.  <br />  The Franco-Prussian War was also important for several changes in the western manner of warfare.  The first Geneva Convention agreements had been signed just prior to the war by both Prussia and France, and the conflict was the first where prisoners and enemy wounded were treated much better than had been heretofore the case.  Although war correspondents had appeared in the Crimean War and the American Civil War, their role increased in this war and the telegraph allowed them to report on the fighting in near real-time.  While Badsey claims that the Prussian \\"terror\\" bombardment of Paris was an innovation in that it targeted civilians to achieve the city's surrender, in fairness, the French should get credit for that \\"innovation\\" when Louis XIV's army used mortars to devastate the German city of Koblenz in 1688.  <br /> However, Badsey's conclusion is a bit less sure, when he asserts that the result of the war was \\"the replacement of France by Germany as the dominant power in Europe.\\"  France before the war, which lacked any allies, was certainly not the \\"dominant power in Europe\\" that Badsey suggests, nor did Prussia's victory and German unification reduce Russian, British or Austrian influence in Europe.  While there is no doubt that the war enhanced Germany's military reputation, it did not alter the essentially multipolar balance of power that had been prevalent in Europe before the war.  Indeed, in the long run, the victory may have hurt Germany because France realized the need for alliances and assiduously went about coalition building for a future war.  Germany on the other hand, which fought and won the war without allies, spent much less effort on cooperative diplomacy and paid for that mistake in 1914-1918.	2003-05-13
1128082:US	52533596	RU3UM984XD0XG	1841763969	297903364	The Boer War 1899-1902 (Essential Histories)	Books	5	45	45	N	N	Excellent Summary of a Landmark Conflict	While the Boer War of 1899-1902 has been overshadowed in collective memory by the two world wars, in many respects the conflict was one of the first modern wars.  The conflict was also unusual for its mobile operations over vast areas, its protracted guerrilla phase and in particular, the tactical successes by a small armed citizenry against a much larger, professional military force.  Historian Gregory Fremont-Barnes does a wonderful job in Osprey's Essential Histories #52, The Boer War 1899-1902, in describing this landmark conflict.  Even after a century, there are many lessons to be learned from a study of the Boer War by military professionals and this volume is an excellent starting place.  The Boer War 1899-1902 is also one of the best volumes in the Essential Histories series.<br /> After a short introduction and chronology, The Boer War 1899-1902 provides an excellent 10-page section on the background to the war.  Interestingly, the discovery of diamonds and gold in South Africa in the 19th Century and its relationship to the crisis that led to war might seem analogous with the modern relationship between oil and international security.  The six-page section on opposing sides is also quite good; in particular, the author notes the Boer's advantage in tactical mobility due to all their troops being mounted, and the possession of a small, but efficient artillery arm.  In the section on the outbreak of the war, the author notes how both sides were inclined to seek war as a solution and how the Boers imported large quantities of weapons and ammunition just before the conflict began.  The actual campaign narrative is 35 pages in length and is supported by ten maps (South Africa 1899, principal theater of operations, the siege of Ladysmith, the Battle of Colenso, the Battle of Spion Kop, the siege of Mafeking, Lord Robert's advance, the siege of Kimberley, the blockhouse system, and Smut's invasion of the Cape Colony).  The section on \\"portrait of a soldier\\" profiles Deneys Reitz, a Boer commando who wrote a postwar memoir, while \\"portrait of a civilian\\" profiles Emily Hobhouse, an Englishwoman who attempted to improve the welfare of interned Boer civilians.  Final sections cover how the war ended and its consequences.  The bibliography is also quite good and more extensive than most other Osprey volumes, and the illustrations throughout are also excellent.<br /> The series of military defeats that the British forces suffered in the first three months of the conflict are amazing by any standard; expert Boer rifle marksmanship, efficient artillery, knowledge of the terrain and cunning selection of defensive positions allowed the farmers-turned-soldiers to annihilate one British battalion after another.  Most of the rest of the British army was cut-off and besieged in isolated posts like Ladysmith, Kimberly and Mafeking.  Indeed, had the Boer's used their initial advantages to push on and seize the vital coastal ports, the British might not have been in a position to relieve their besieged garrisons for some time and the war might have been ended much sooner.  As Fremont-Barnes narrative reveals, the Boers were very successful throughout the war on the tactical level, but on the operational level they were overly conservative and unimaginative.  On the other hand, it seems almost incredible that so many British commanders could persist in frontal assaults against entrenched Boer positions, even after ample evidence that this was disastrous.  The British had important deficiencies in tactical mobility and intelligence that left them unable to come to grip with their foes in the initial stages of the war.  The British also had a tendency to split up their forces too much, based upon their innate (but false) sense of tactical superiority.  Time and again, small British columns were surprised and overwhelmed.  In the end, the British were able to win the conventional phase of the war by using overwhelming and concentrated force,as well as rectifying their mobility problems by widespread use of cavalry.  The guerrilla phase was won by the controversial policies of \\"scorched earth,\\" internment camps and blockhouses to contain the free-riding Boer commandos.<br /> Fremont-Barnes' narrative is full of interesting insights that are applicable to other conflicts, in other times.  One British officer notes that the seizure of the Boer capitals seems to have had little impact on their will to resist: \\"the Boers set no store by them [the capitals] apparently; neither Bloemfontein nor Pretoria have been seriously defended, and they go on fighting after their loss just as if nothing had happened.\\"  Barnes also notes that the British army found it relatively easy to control the few towns and even the rail lines, but found it almost impossible to control the vast stretches of open veldt upon which the Boer commando roamed (although in a few years, the arrival of aircraft would have made life tougher for the Boers) - which is still a problem familiar to modern military personnel in places like Somalia, Afghanistan and the Balkans.<br />  Ultimately, the British achieved a military victory after committing 450,000 troops to subdue an enemy that never had more than 60,000 troops.  Nor was victory cheap; the war cost Britain £200 million and 22,000 dead.  Oddly, the victory was a hollow one.  Fremont-Barnes notes that, \\"the greatest paradox of the war was the fact that, though Britain emerged the victor in the military sense, the Boers clearly won the peace.  Within a decade of the end of hostilities all four South African Crown colonies had been unified into a self-governing union dominated by Afrikaners.  The Boer republics had gone to war in the name of liberty and now they had achieved it.\\", as well as rectifying their mobility problems by widespread use of cavalry.  The guerrilla phase was won by the controversial policies of \\"scorched earth,\\" internment camps and blockhouses to contain the free-riding Boer commandos.  <br /> Fremont-Barnes' narrative is full of interesting insights that are applicable to other conflicts, in other times.  One British officer notes that the seizure of the Boer capitals seems to have had little impact on their will to resist: \\"the Boers set no store by them [the capitals] apparently; neither Bloemfontein nor Pretoria have been seriously defended, and they go on fighting after their loss just as if nothing had happened.\\"  Barnes also notes that the British army found it relatively easy to control the few towns and even the rail lines, but found it almost impossible to control the vast stretches of open veldt upon which the Boer commando roamed (although in a few years, the arrival of aircraft would have made life tougher for the Boers) - which is still a problem familiar to modern military personnel in places like Somalia, Afghanistan and the Balkans.  <br />        Ultimately, the British achieved a military victory after committing 450,000 troops to subdue an enemy that never had more than 60,000 troops.  Nor was victory cheap; the war cost Britain £200 million and 22,000 dead.  Oddly, the victory was a hollow one.  Fremont-Barnes notes that, \\"the greatest paradox of the war was the fact that, though Britain emerged the victor in the military sense, the Boers clearly won the peace.  Within a decade of the end of hostilities all four South African Crown colonies had been unified into a self-governing union dominated by Afrikaners.  The Boer republics had gone to war in the name of liberty and now they had achieved it.\\"	2003-05-11
1128107:US	52533596	R1UVANRA6PQB4Y	0304363138	766834386	A Good Clean Fight	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Almost a Really Great War Novel	Derek Robinson's novel, A Good Clean Fight, follows the remaining characters from his earlier Piece of Cake to the North African Desert in May 1942.  As in previous Robinson novels, much of the focus is upon the fictional \\"Hornet Squadron,\\" now led by \\"Fanny\\" Barton and equipped with P-40 \\"Tomahawks.\\"  The pilot \\"Pip\\" Patterson, the squadron adjutant \\"Uncle\\" Kellaway and the intelligence officer \\"Skull\\" Skelton are also on hand.  However unlike other Robinson novels that focus mainly on life within the squadron, A Good Clean Fight has substantial roles for the Germans and for a British ground unit.  Captain Jack Lampard is a British Special Air Service (SAS) officer who leads daring behind-the-lines raids on German airfields and Major Paul Schramm is a German intelligence officer tasked with finding and defeating the SAS raiders.  There are also a number of other SAS and German supporting characters that add depth to Lampard's and Schramm's roles.  A Good Clean Fight also has considerably more combat action than any other Robinson novels and the book crackles along at a very good pace.  Indeed, the novel starts off very well and could have been a truly great war novel if Robinson had not allowed himself to get distracted with several unnecessary sub-plots in the middle of his work.  Nevertheless, A Good Clean Fight is very good and probably one of Robinson's finest efforts to date.<br />  The main plot with \\"Hornet Squadron\\" in A Good Clean Fight focuses on efforts to entice the Luftwaffe fighters to come up and fight in the quiet period that preceded the Gazala Campaign.  Barton, afraid that his hard-luck unit might be broken up, offers to conduct a systematic ground attack program in order to get the German fighters to commit to action (the Germans preferred to hold their fighters back in order to prepare for the main battle coming).  In effect, Barton commits his unit to an attritional campaign that can have but one end for the squadron - whittling down pilots and aircraft in the hope that something will \\"break loose\\" before the unit is combat ineffective.  Barton has changed somewhat since A Piece of Cake and is no longer very sympathetic; many readers might feel that he is sacrificing his unit for his own sake, but that is unfair.  \\"Fanny's\\" efforts to \\"outfox\\" the enemy as he says, and \\"Skull's\\" pointed explanations of why this is unlikely are quite interesting.  In the midst of this growing tension in the unit, Robinson delivers several excellent and exciting descriptions of air-ground attacks on assorted targets.<br />  Lampard begins the novel with an exciting raid on a German airfield and even briefly captures the intelligence officer, Schramm.  Robinson's depiction of these raids gives great insight not only into SAS tactics of the period, but the type of men who excelled in this type of work.  Lampard in many respects is the SAS leader par excellence - aggressive, physically impressive, cunning and ultra-competent.  Unfortunately, Lampard has some flaws which may not be uncommon in the special operations community: he is a \\"risk junkie\\" who doesn't know when to quit and he lies to superiors and subordinates in order to cover up his mistakes.  Like Barton's attrition tactics, Lampard's \\"risk tactics\\" seem preordained to eventual catastrophe, of course, with much bravery along the way.<br />  Schramm starts out as a very interesting, witty character but gradually withers into a sour, introverted, pathetic sort.  While Schramm and his peers do provide some tension in the novel with their \\"cat and mouse\\" game with Lampard, one feels that the SAS are never seriously threatened by Luftwaffe intelligence.  Indeed, the one German effort to send a large patrol out into the desert to ambush the in-coming SAS patrols ends up in total and ridiculous disaster.  The worst parts of the novel involve Schraam's involvement with an Italian female doctor - this goes nowhere and means nothing.  On the Allied side, the antics of two reporters is also quite distracting and useless.  Were it not for these distracting minor characters - who somehow elbow out the main characters in midstream - A Good Clean Fight would have been nearly perfect.<br />  As usual, Robinson's humor is very dry and very dark, and is certainly the most compelling aspect of his novels. Robinson is able to show both the bravery and the stupidity in war, as well as just the sheer misery of trying to fight in blast-furnace heat, covered with flies.  In a historical sense, Robinson also delivers insight into neglected facets of the desert war, such as the \\"Takoradi\\" trail the Allies used to ferry planes across Africa and the German air raid on Chad to interdict the trail.d side, the antics of two reporters is also quite distracting and useless.  Were it not for these distracting minor characters - who somehow elbow out the main characters in midstream - A Good Clean Fight would have been nearly perfect.  <br />       As usual, Robinson's humor is very dry and very dark, and is certainly the most compelling aspect of his novels. Robinson is able to show both the bravery and the stupidity in war, as well as just the sheer misery of trying to fight in blast-furnace heat, covered with flies.  In a historical sense, Robinson also delivers insight into neglected facets of the desert war, such as the \\"Takoradi\\" trail the Allies used to ferry planes across Africa and the German air raid on Chad to interdict the trail.	2003-05-11
1129619:US	52533596	R1VAJ9ZQKW5WWO	1855326051	148394872	Quebec 1759: The battle that won Canada (Campaign)	Books	3	20	21	N	N	Not as Good as Chartrand's Volume	Four years ago, the very capable historian Rene Chartrand wrote Osprey's Quebec 1759 in the Order of Battle series.  Now, Osprey has decided to publish a campaign title on the same subject by author Stuart Reid.  Chartrand's earlier volume was so comprehensive that it seems a waste of time to recover this same ground, and the only value added in this new volume are the 3-D maps and the battle scenes (which frankly, are not very good).  Indeed, Reid's Quebec 1759 accomplishes much less in the same 96-page format than Chartrand.<br /> Quebec 1759: The Battle that Won Canada begins with a short introduction, a campaign chronology, and a very brief section on opposing commanders.  The section on opposing armies borrows heavily from Chartrand's earlier volume, although the author neglected to discuss the Royal Navy's participation.  The section on opposing plans is also rather brief.  There are a total of five 2-D maps (the Canadian theater of operations, the river war in June-August 1759, the proposed St Michel Operation, the landing at Montmorency on 31 July 1759, and the landing at Foulon) and three 3-D Bird's Eye View maps (two of the Battle on the Plains of Abraham and one of the Battle of St Foy in April 1760).  The three battle scenes are: the landing at Montmorency, the storming of the Foulon and the Battle on the Plains); however,  the battle scenes in this volume, by artist Gerry Embleton, are not as good as in most other Osprey volumes.<br /> Reid is a British re-enactor with considerable insight into the 18th Century British Army, which he showed to good effect in his earlier books on Culloden.  However, Reid has a tendency toward a jingoistic, pro-British bias that can be annoying.  In the introduction, Reid takes the time to criticize George Washington's &quot;inept leadership&quot; on the Monongahela four years earlier, while noting that the British General Braddock was merely &quot;unfortunate.&quot;  This biased opinion does not square with the facts.  Reid also infers several times that Wolfe was fortunate in having virtually no colonial troops in his command at Quebec (although he could have mentioned that many British units were brought up to strength by men recruited in America).  Reid's recurrent dismissal of French General Montcalm's military talents also seems overtly jaded; wasn't this the same Montcalm who defeated the British at Fort Ticonderoga?  The subtitle, &quot;the battle that won Canada&quot; also betrays a narrow interpretation of that event; the French would see it as &quot;the battle that lost Canada.&quot;  Reid is certainly knowledgeable about the kit and tactics of British infantry in this period, but his objectivity - or lack of - is a cause for concern.<br /> The only other noticeable difference between Reid and Chartrand is that the former bases much of his narrative on the letters of General Wolfe and other official British correspondence.  There are virtually no sources quoted from the French perspective.  Reid's discussion of the development of Wolfe's final battle plan is a bit tortuous, as most other attempts at analyzing the young general's decision-making process tend to wallow through a sea of assumptions and guesses.  No matter whom you read, it is clear the Wolfe arrived at Quebec with only a hazy plan of action (based on ridiculously bad intelligence) and then decided to play it by ear.  The landing at Montmorency was a disaster that demonstrated how effective Montcalm's area defense was, as well as the paucity of British tactical options.  Wolfe's decision to land below the city was anticipated by the French and most British writers fail to mention just how narrow a margin of error the landing at Foulon was conducted.  Wolfe got very lucky and got ashore in strength, but had the French been a bit more alert, the landing at Foulon would have been a replay of Montmorency.  While the capture of Quebec in 1759 was certainly a great British victory, it was based far more on luck than good operational planning.uck than good operational planning.	2003-05-09
1140456:US	52533596	R2ABEWDH00RDWZ	1841765139	821670336	Towton 1461: England's bloodiest battle (Campaign)	Books	3	17	17	N	N	Good Insight on 15th Century Warfare	In Osprey Campaign #120, Towton 1461, English museum curator Christopher Gravett describes the bloodiest battle ever fought on English soil.  While the battle itself is interesting, the campaign is set in the midst of the Wars of the Roses - a period of history that is confusing, complicated and murky.  In large part, Gravett succeeds in bringing a tough subject to light and his summary is professional throughout.<br /> Towton 1461 has a rather lengthy 9-page introduction, followed by somewhat brief sections on opposing commanders and forces.  The campaign and battle narratives are adequately covered in 34 pages, supported by three 3-D &quot;Birds Eye View&quot; maps (all of the Battle of Towton in various phases) and five 2-D maps (England in 1460-1, the march to Towton, skirmish at Ferrybridge, final positions before battle and England after Towton).  The volume also has four battle scenes by the talented artist, Graham Turner: the fight at Ferrybridge, the melee at Towton, the rout and the opening barrage.  The final section, on the battle's aftermath in overly long at ten pages and includes and unusual discussion of modern examination of a gravesite on the battlefield.  The section on the Battlefield Today and bibliography are decent.<br /> Although any work on the Wars of the Roses is hindered by a paucity of detailed information, the author works through this deficiency rather well.  He is somewhat less effective in explaining the complicated politics behind the campaign, and this subject virtually demands an appendix with capsule biographies on the major participants.  The author's background as an authority on medieval arms and armor enables him to add considerable insight into his discussion of what 15th Century close combat was like at Towton.  Furthermore, the Battle of Towton was rather unique in being a large-scale engagement fought amidst snow squalls.<br /> In terms of military history, a study of Towton has relatively little to offer, since it was essentially a straight-up infantry on infantry fight until one side cracked.  The leadership example of the young King Edward IV, who raced to join his troops in bucking up a crumbling flank, is interesting.  Neither side made any egregious errors or did anything overly innovative, although each side employed a ruse or deceptive effort.  Unlike many other battles of this period, cavalry only played a role in the pursuit phase, but the main battle was a pure infantry fight.  While exact numbers are contentious, the author argues that about 45,000 troops from both sides fought in the battle and about 13,000 were killed in the space of a 6-hour battle, making Towton a very bloody day indeed.was essentially a straight-up infantry on infantry fight until one side cracked.  The leadership example of the young King Edward IV, who raced to join his troops in bucking up a crumbling flank, is interesting.  Neither side made any egregious errors or did anything overly innovative, although each side employed a ruse or deceptive effort.  Unlike many other battles of this period, cavalry only played a role in the pursuit phase, but the main battle was a pure infantry fight.  While exact numbers are contentious, the author argues that about 45,000 troops from both sides fought in the battle and about 13,000 were killed in the space of a 6-hour battle, making Towton a very bloody day indeed.	2003-04-30
1141997:US	52533596	RJZ6MSKQIGN0C	1841764914	487182886	The War of the Roses: 1455-1485 (Essential Histories)	Books	3	32	34	N	N	A Decent Summary of a Tough Subject	Despite Shakespeare's play Richard III, the Wars of the Roses is one of the tougher subjects in military history to write about.  Nevertheless, English scholar Michael Hicks makes a valiant effort to summarize the wars in Osprey Essential Histories volume #54.  It is a daunting task.  American readers in particular, will find this subject obscure and confusing.  Unlike our own Civil War or the English Civil War in the 17th Century, the Wars of the Roses were a series of dynastic struggles where there was little to distinguish the two sides from each other.  The opposing Yorkist and Lancastrian factions fought a series of mini-wars over thirty years to determine who would legitimately rule England, but the warring sides were never marked by ideological, geographical, economic or social distinctions.  Opposing leaders even switched sides and loyalties seemingly at will, making it difficult to determine who was fighting for whom or what.  Frankly, this book is rather difficult to absorb but the author has done his best, and that appears to be enough.<br /> The Wars of the Roses 1455-1485 begins with 23 pages of background material to the wars, and then plunges into the main campaign narrative, of 31 pages.  The volume includes nine strategic maps of the main campaigns, as well as an excellent bibliography.  Throughout this volume, the author is hindered by the paucity of surviving details about these conflicts; as he notes, there are no surviving muster lists from any of the campaigns, which makes it estimation of the size and composition of the opposing armies guesswork.  Nor is there are any detailed information on casualties, economic costs and even the locations of the major battles are debatable.  Furthermore, the subject is hardly compelling to modern readers.  As Professor Hicks notes, the wars had little impact on the English population at large, society or the economy.  Unlike the Hundred Years War, there was no \\"scorched earth\\" tactics or pillaging by marauding armies to ravage the land and people.  Instead, the Wars of the Roses were a series of extremely brief campaigns, fought by less than 1% of the population and affecting primarily the noble classes.<br /> Militarily, the Wars of the Roses stands out since at a time when methodical siege warfare was popular, the warring English factions consistently sought to settle their political differences with short maneuver campaigns leading to a decisive battle.  Indeed, virtually all of the battles ended in \\"winner-take-all\\" circumstances, with the losers forced to disperse and flee or face execution.  Nor were there any serious attempts at negotiations between the warring factions, since the long period of political debate that had preceded the conflict had proved so fruitless.  However the armies in the Wars of the Roses were second-rate by continental standards, poorly armed and virtually untrained, and the author notes that these wars held no lessons for military theory or practice.<br /> The author notes that the Tudors, who were the eventual victors in these wars, learned four main strategic lessons that were taken to heart.  These lessons were (1) invasions must be prevented at all costs, (2) keep internal and external foes divided, (3) prevent regular English troops from being used against the regime and (4) prevent domestic dissent from escalating by \\"a mixture of conciliation, deterrent and propaganda, so that Englishmen learn to regard resistance and rebellion as wrong.\\"  Overall, this volume is a tough read, but it gives good insight into how nasty medieval dynastic struggles could become and how protracted struggles evolve over time.ding armies to ravage the land and people.  Instead, the Wars of the Roses were a series of extremely brief campaigns, fought by less than 1% of the population and affecting primarily the noble classes.  <br /> Militarily, the Wars of the Roses stands out since at a time when methodical siege warfare was popular, the warring English factions consistently sought to settle their political differences with short maneuver campaigns leading to a decisive battle.  Indeed, virtually all of the battles ended in \\"winner-take-all\\" circumstances, with the losers forced to disperse and flee or face execution.  Nor were there any serious attempts at negotiations between the warring factions, since the long period of political debate that had preceded the conflict had proved so fruitless.  However the armies in the Wars of the Roses were second-rate by continental standards, poorly armed and virtually untrained, and the author notes that these wars held no lessons for military theory or practice.  <br /> The author notes that the Tudors, who were the eventual victors in these wars, learned four main strategic lessons that were taken to heart.  These lessons were (1) invasions must be prevented at all costs, (2) keep internal and external foes divided, (3) prevent regular English troops from being used against the regime and (4) prevent domestic dissent from escalating by \\"a mixture of conciliation, deterrent and propaganda, so that Englishmen learn to regard resistance and rebellion as wrong.\\"  Overall, this volume is a tough read, but it gives good insight into how nasty medieval dynastic struggles could become and how protracted struggles evolve over time.	2003-04-29
1144057:US	52533596	RQ6CSC3SB5V4V	1841764388	941499200	Focke-Wulf Fw 190 (Osprey Production Line to Frontline 5)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Everything You Ever Wanted to Know about the Fw 190	Osprey's Production Line to Frontline #5, Focke-Wulf Fw 190 by Malcolm V Lowe, is an exceptionally good volume for military historians and aviation enthusiasts alike.  This series is \\"meatier\\" than most Osprey products (144 pages) and is probably too technical for most casual readers.  Malcolm V Lowe uses the Production Line to Frontline format to good effect and delivers an excellent compact history of how one of Germany's most important fighter programs in the Second World War was brought from the draft table to the battlefield.  There is a wealth of information about how the Luftwaffe managed its fighter programs in this volume.<br /> After a short introduction, Focke-Wulf Fw 190 has chapters on the design of the prototypes, initial production batches, improvements to the basic design, fighter-bomber variants, a new engine, other prototypes, the Fw 190D \\"Dora\\" variant, the Ta-152 variant, armament of the Fw 190 series, and an overview of Fw 190 production.  Final chapters address the aircraft's introduction into frontline service and foreign users. The author provides an excellent bibliography that includes Internet references and three appendices (principal aircraft plants involved in Fw 190 production, Fw 190 production batches by work number, the code system for German aircraft manufacturers, and selected Fw 190 specifications).  There are many interesting and unusual photographs complementing the text, many taken by employees of the Focke-Wulf Company.  For example, the author provides a rare photo of a Fw 190 equipped as a torpedo bomber.  The volume also includes four pages of line drawings of the principal Fw 190 variants.<br /> Lowe discusses at length how the Focke-Wulf Corporation discussed the Fw 190 as a complement to Germany's primary single-engine fighter - the Bf Me-109.  In fact, the Fw 190 ended up being far superior to the Bf Me-109 in many respects and turned out to be the Luftwaffe's primary fighter after 1943.  The Fw 190 went from initial requirement to first production in about 36 months, with the first aircraft reaching operational squadrons in August 1941.  The Fw 190 was built as a radial engine fighter, as opposed to the in-line engine Bf Me-109, and offered enormous growth potential.  Lowe discusses the many variants of the main \\"Anton\\" version of the fighter, followed by its \\"F\\" and \\"G\\" fighter-bomber versions and finally the \\"D\\" and Ta-152 high-altitude versions.  One insight that this volume provides is the tremendous talent resident in the Focke-Wulf design team; many of its members were test pilots as well as aeronautical engineers.<br /> The author provides a wealth of information and insight into the Fw 190 program, including mundane (but often omitted) information like the price of a new-build Fw 190A (about $61,000 in 1940 US).  One of the major values of this volume is the section on \\"building the Anton,\\" which provides 17 photographs of the aircraft in sequential stages of construction, along with detailed captions.  Later in the volume, the author also provides information about each of the factories that built Fw 190s (although production was gradually spread all over Germany) and the various production batches.  While these sections were very informative, I was disappointed that the author provided no information about the number of man-hours it took to produce an Fw 190 or its key components, or the essential materials required for construction.  The author does mention that material shortages later in the war forced the Germans to substitute parts of lower quality but these are not specified; it would have been nice to get some idea if he was talking about something critical like the engine or only the landing gear.  The author also provides some interesting information about the foreign users of the Fw-190; few readers will be aware that the French Air Force continued to produce 64 Fw-190s in 1944-5 or that Turkey flew the Fw-190 alongside the Spitfire.<br /> By 1943, the Fw-190was evolving into a formidable fighter-bomber, which the Luftwaffe was using for \\"tip and run\\" raids against England.  In particular, the author goes into detail about the daylight raid on Bournemouth on May 23, 1943 by 22 Fw 190s.  These aircraft swept in and killed 51 military and 77 civilians for the cost of two aircraft.  The success of such tactical raids should be contrasted with the failure of so many RAF strategic raids against German cities in 1943, which killed mostly just handfuls of civilians in exchange for dozens of British aircrew.  On the other hand, the author mentions that the US daylight air raid on the Focke-Wulf Marienburg plant in October 1943 was, \\"one of the finest examples of daylight precision bombing during the whole warwith the bombers placing 83% of their bombs within 610 meters of the aiming point\\"<br /> This volume also gives great perspective on how the Luftwaffe managed a premier fighter program.  While the basic Fw 190 was churned out in quantity, the Luftwaffe dithered about the need for high-altitude variants to deal with Allied heavy bombers; only a handful of the Ta-152 variant was produced in the final months of 1945.  The Focke-Wulf designers also had \\"a strange love affair with the idea of using the Fw 190 as a torpedo carrier,\\" and wasted considerable time and effort on this tertiary capability.  In the end, this volume demonstrates that the Germans had produced a very potent multi-purpose combat aircraft fairly early in the war, but that mismanagement and poor decisions greatly affected the impact of this weapon system.Fw-190 was evolving into a formidable fighter-bomber, which the Luftwaffe was using for \\"tip and run\\" raids against England.  In particular, the author goes into detail about the daylight raid on Bournemouth on May 23, 1943 by 22 Fw 190s.  These aircraft swept in and killed 51 military and 77 civilians for the cost of two aircraft.  The success of such tactical raids should be contrasted with the failure of so many RAF strategic raids against German cities in 1943, which killed mostly just handfuls of civilians in exchange for dozens of British aircrew.  On the other hand, the author mentions that the US daylight air raid on the Focke-Wulf Marienburg plant in October 1943 was, \\"one of the finest examples of daylight precision bombing during the whole warwith the bombers placing 83% of their bombs within 610 meters of the aiming point\\"<br /> This volume also gives great perspective on how the Luftwaffe managed a premier fighter program.  While the basic Fw 190 was churned out in quantity, the Luftwaffe dithered about the need for high-altitude variants to deal with Allied heavy bombers; only a handful of the Ta-152 variant was produced in the final months of 1945.  The Focke-Wulf designers also had \\"a strange love affair with the idea of using the Fw 190 as a torpedo carrier,\\" and wasted considerable time and effort on this tertiary capability.  In the end, this volume demonstrates that the Germans had produced a very potent multi-purpose combat aircraft fairly early in the war, but that mismanagement and poor decisions greatly affected the impact of this weapon system.	2003-04-27
1147720:US	52533596	R25X96KZWG7DPU	184176406X	192819712	The Hermann Goering Division (Men-at-Arms Series)	Books	2	14	21	N	N	Was This Unit Really Elite?	Lest my review seem capricious, the reader should be advised that Osprey's Men-at-Arms series claims on its own covers that its purpose is to describe, \\"the uniforms, equipment, history, and organization of the world's military forces, past and present.\\"  Unfortunately, the Men-at-Arms series seems to be deviating more and more from that mission statement in recent years and veering toward the exclusive interests of those interested only in uniforms and heraldry.  Gordon Williamson's latest volume, The Hermann G&ouml;ring Division, is far too focused on uniform issues at the expense of providing information on equipment, history or organization of that unit.  Indeed, the author spends 20 pages on uniform-related issues and only 17 pages on the unit's history and organization.  While the color plates are wonderful - as usual - the text and photographs are far too bland for such an interesting topic.<br /> Williamson skims over the history of the Hermann G&ouml;ring Division so rapidly that he misses vital facts.  He spends only a single paragraph discussing the unit's participation in the Russian Campaign of 1941, but fails to notice that the unit (then a regiment-size battle group) was part of Guderian's panzer group in the final lunge toward Moscow.  As for the unit's organization, Williamson provides outlines of the Hermann G&ouml;ring formation in its regiment, brigade, division and corps-size incarnations, but none of these provide information about authorized or actual strengths.  Other than the division commanders, only a handful of other HG formation leaders are mentioned.  The discussion of the unit's equipment is practically non-existent; Williamson never discusses artillery, engineers, signals and supply troops.  Did the panzer grenadier battalions have trucks or SPWs?  While the size of the Men-at-Arms series is certainly a constraint, this author has made no effort to provide anything like unique information about the Hermann G&ouml;ring division's strength or composition.<br /> It is also odd that this author accepts as Gospel truth that the Hermann G&ouml;ring Division was an \\"elite\\" unit.  Yet was this unit really elite or merely the beneficiary of excellent propaganda?  Readers should have been cautioned by the author - and were not - that the HG division was established to make the Luftwaffe and its boss look good.  Nor does the fact that the troops in the HG division received so many more personal awards and decorations than soldiers in other German panzer divisions necessarily mean that the HG division was better or \\"elite.\\"  In order for a combat unit to be considered elite, it generally needs to have superior training, highly selective personnel recruiting and/or superior equipment.  There is little or no evidence that the Hermann G&ouml;ring Division had any of these benefits.  The division began forming in October 1942, based on the original regimental battle group and the remnants of the 5th Fallschirmj&auml;ger regiment.  The regular army provided tankers to form the HG division's panzer regiment.  Much of the division was promptly committed to Tunisia in November 1942 and lost in that campaign.  Where was the time for specialized or elite training?  Two months after the end in Tunisia and barely into refitting, the re-born HG division had to face the Allied invasion of Sicily, followed by a year of continuous tough fighting in Italy.  Not much time for special training while at Salerno, Anzio or Cassino.  When the HG division was sent to the Russian front again in July 1944, Williamson notes that the unit still had some Pz III tanks (so much for better equipment!).  Indeed, for much of the war the HG division had to make do with the older Pz IV tank as its mainstay and only received the better Panther tank in 1945 as the war was ending.  After some initial success against the Russians near Warsaw, the German High Command then made the incredibly stupid decision to upgrade the Hermann G&ouml;ring Division to corps status.  Even before this point, the HG had been forced to induct conscripts into its ranks and this expansion further diluted whatever quality the unit had possessed.  Most of the HG Corps, which was never anywhere near full strength, were isolated or destroyed in the heavy fighting around East Prussia in early 1945.  Clearly, two factors that worked heavily against the HG unit(s) gaining elite status were constant, non-stop fighting and continuous expansion.<br />  The original HG regimental battle group, which saw service in Scandinavia, France and Russia did enjoy more selectivity in personnel recruiting and had more time for ground combat training.  Yet it must be remembered that after 1942, the Luftwaffe was constantly cannibalizing its rear echelons to form ground combat units and few of these men received extensive ground combat training.  The eighteen Luftwaffe Field Divisions, formed from excess personnel, were all conspicuous failures in combat - so why should HG have been any different?  It is clear that the Hermann G&ouml;ring Division never held superior training, personnel or equipment to significantly distinguish it from any normal German panzer division.  However what the HG division did posses was a high-level sponsor who could extol and exaggerate everything his namesake unit did in order to burnish his own diminishing reputation.  There is no doubt that the HG division enjoyed some tactical success in Tunisia (but less than the not-elite 10th, 15th or 21st Panzer Divisions), Sicily, Italy and Poland, but the extent of these successes in comparison to other Wehrmacht units may have been exaggerated.  Putting the Hermann G&ouml;ring Division in the same league as the Grossdeutschland or SS Leibstandarte divisions is a mistake, since those units did enjoy superior equipment, personnel recruitment and had more time to train before combat.  Historically, the Hermann G&ouml;ring Division should probably be viewed as a \\"wanna-be\\" unit that was heavily promoted by its benefactor.fore this point, the HG had been forced to induct conscripts into its ranks and this expansion further diluted whatever quality the unit had possessed.  Most of the HG Corps, which was never anywhere near full strength, were isolated or destroyed in the heavy fighting around East Prussia in early 1945.  Clearly, two factors that worked heavily against the HG unit(s) gaining elite status were constant, non-stop fighting and continuous expansion.  <br />      The original HG regimental battle group, which saw service in Scandinavia, France and Russia did enjoy more selectivity in personnel recruiting and had more time for ground combat training.  Yet it must be remembered that after 1942, the Luftwaffe was constantly cannibalizing its rear echelons to form ground combat units and few of these men received extensive ground combat training.  The eighteen Luftwaffe Field Divisions, formed from excess personnel, were all conspicuous failures in combat - so why should HG have been any different?  It is clear that the Hermann Göring Division never held superior training, personnel or equipment to significantly distinguish it from any normal German panzer division.  However what the HG division did posses was a high-level sponsor who could extol and exaggerate everything his namesake unit did in order to burnish his own diminishing reputation.  There is no doubt that the HG division enjoyed some tactical success in Tunisia (but less than the not-elite 10th, 15th or 21st Panzer Divisions), Sicily, Italy and Poland, but the extent of these successes in comparison to other Wehrmacht units may have been exaggerated.  Putting the Hermann Göring Division in the same league as the Grossdeutschland or SS Leibstandarte divisions is a mistake, since those units did enjoy superior equipment, personnel recruitment and had more time to train before combat.  Historically, the Hermann Göring Division should probably be viewed as a \\"wanna-be\\" unit that was heavily promoted by its benefactor.	2003-04-23
1149946:US	52533596	R1VH9O39DBCWO5	1841764272	772707051	American Defenses of Corregidor and Manila Bay 1898–1945 (Fortress)	Books	3	11	12	N	Y	Uneven, Due to Lack of Structured Format	...this book is somewhat uneven; it is almost implicitly written as a travel guide for those who might wish to visit the remnants of these fortifications and in that regard, the authors' amply accomplish their purpose.  In essence, this volume seems to suffer from Osprey's failure to establish a uniform structure for this new Fortress series, leaving it up to the authors to decide what to focus upon.  Thus a reader looking for greater detail about the fortifications will find that this volume does not suffice...<br />The authors cover the fall of the Manila Bay fortifications and their recapture in two sections totaling 19 pages.  These sections are adequate, but provide relatively sparse detail on the garrisons and critical aspects of the siege...<br />Graphically, this volume is quite appealing.  There are five 2-D maps (the Manila Bay environs, the defenses of Manila Bay in 1941, a strategic map in December 1941, the Japanese assault on Corregidor, the American recapture of Corregidor) and two very nice 3-D maps (Corregidor island and Carabao Island).  However, none of the maps depict the range fans of the American coastal batteries, which is rather important.  The artwork is also excellent and includes cut-away diagrams of Battery Cheney, Fort Drum as well as depictions of Battery Smith in action, Battery Gillespie, and the destruction of Battery Geary.  The authors provide a bibliography and two appendices (American coast artillery weapons and a list of batteries around Manila Bay).  In sum, this volume is very good in areas that the authors have chosen to emphasize, but it is noticeably lacking in areas that they found less interesting.	2003-04-22
1151618:US	52533596	RX5URULQ95ZHW	1841764582	13655411	66: Napoleon's Guns 1792–1815 (1): Field Artillery (New Vanguard)	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Lots on Gribeauval, Less on Tactics	Rene Chartrand, author of so many excellent Osprey volumes, begins his two-volume study of French artillery in the Napoleonic Wars with an examination of French artillery in the period 1792-1815.  As usual, Chartrand deftly weaves together historical facts and personal insights to create a cogent overview of the subject at hand.  In this case, Chartrand has a lot of ground to cover in less than 48 pages and the Vanguard format appears to have cramped his style.  Although this volume is good, it is not great, and size constraints seem to be the culprit.  Nevertheless, if you are a Napoleonic enthusiast then this is a good reference volume to have on one's shelf.<br /> Napoleon's Guns 1792-1815 (1) begins with a short section on French artillery in the 18th Century and then rapidly moves into a lengthy discussion of the Gribeauval reforms of 1765.  Indeed, a large chunk of the volume focuses on the Gribeauval system and I was surprised to learn just how extensive these reforms were once implemented.  Most sources only mention Gribeauval's standardization of French artillery calibers, but he also improved artillery limbers, caissons, and ancillary equipment.  Yet the most important Gribeauval reform was the quantitative increases; a typical French field army had its artillery support increased from 60 to 160 medium caliber cannon. Chartrand notes that Napoleon was very lucky to rise to prominence at a point when the French artillery had marked quantitative and qualitative advantages over all its opponents.  Indeed, Napoleon recognized the value of the new field artillery and made it the centerpiece of his Grande Arm&eacute;e.<br /> Chartrand does spend some time discussing the horse artillery units and the artillery trains (both interesting sections), as well as the regimental 4-pounder guns.  However, there is no real discussion of the organization of different types of French field batteries or how a battery was commanded in combat.  Supply issues are sidestepped.  Chartrand does have sections on the paint schemes of the artillery, a brief section on ammunition and notes on artillery in the Imperial Period.  Although the title suggests that coverage begins in 1792, there is virtually no mention of French artillery before 1800 in this volume.  The color illustrations accompanying this volume are quite good: a 12 pounder field gun; a 6-inch howitzer; a caisson; and 8-pounder with limber and tools; a limber; a 6 pounder; and a 4-pounder in action.<br /> Certainly the oddest omission is the almost total lack of information about the performance characteristics of the Gribeauval artillery pieces.  There is only a single brief chart that lists typical ranges for ball, canister and grape ammunition, but this chart does not mention charges.  Any artillerymen knows that different charges will affect the range that can be achieved, but Chartrand never discusses this important subject in this volume.  Essentially, Chartrand used up most of the space in this volume discussing the Gribeauval system and artillery design issues, leaving precious little space for discussing relevant tactical issues.  While I did learn a lot of interesting aspects of the Gribeauval system that are not always apparent, this volume is not very useful for understanding how the French employed their artillery in combat.rand does have sections on the paint schemes of the artillery, a brief section on ammunition and notes on artillery in the Imperial Period.  Although the title suggests that coverage begins in 1792, there is virtually no mention of French artillery before 1800 in this volume.  The color illustrations accompanying this volume are quite good: a 12 pounder field gun; a 6-inch howitzer; a caisson; and 8-pounder with limber and tools; a limber; a 6 pounder; and a 4-pounder in action.  <br /> Certainly the oddest omission is the almost total lack of information about the performance characteristics of the Gribeauval artillery pieces.  There is only a single brief chart that lists typical ranges for ball, canister and grape ammunition, but this chart does not mention charges.  Any artillerymen knows that different charges will affect the range that can be achieved, but Chartrand never discusses this important subject in this volume.  Essentially, Chartrand used up most of the space in this volume discussing the Gribeauval system and artillery design issues, leaving precious little space for discussing relevant tactical issues.  While I did learn a lot of interesting aspects of the Gribeauval system that are not always apparent, this volume is not very useful for understanding how the French employed their artillery in combat.	2003-04-20
1155471:US	52533596	R31GF9NAWPHAKP	1841764094	443522855	Lepanto 1571: The greatest naval battle of the Renaissance (Campaign)	Books	4	40	50	N	Y	The High-water Mark for Islam	Modern readers accustomed to reading about Western military interventions in the Mideast should take time to consider the other swing of the pendulum.  Osprey's Campaign #114, Lepanto 1571, is an excellent introduction to a time when Islam literally wielded a knife at Christian Europe's throat.  Written by naval expert Angus Konstam, Lepanto 1571 is a clear and concise account of one of the most decisive naval battles ever fought, and one that also marked the high-water mark for Islamic aggression.  Konstam does an excellent job detailing the various factors of strategy, leadership and ship design that resulted in this epic clash off the west coast of Greece.<br />  Lepanto 1571 begins with a short introduction and a campaign chronology.  The sections on opposing commanders, opposing fleets and orders of battle cover thirteen pages.  The section on opposing plans is quite good, followed by 17 pages on the early phases of the campaign and 39 pages on the battle itself.  The maps are one of the strong suites in this volume and they comprise five 2-D maps (strategic situation in 1570-1571, the Cyprus campaign in 1570, the advance to Lepanto, the fleets close, the morning of Lepanto) and three 3-D \\"Birds Eye View\\" maps of the Battle of Lepanto.  The three battle scenes (the battle lines close, the Venetian galleasses break up the Turkish line, and the flight of Uluch Ali) are decent - particularly for illustrating the colorful paint schemes of the galleys on both sides - but not great.  It is also apparent that the author has done his research well on this subject and the bibliography is more than adequate for a volume this size.<br /> Konstam notes that it was the diplomatic intervention of Pope Pius V that resulted in the creation of the Holy League - an alliance of Spain, Venice, Genoa and other Christian states - that was the only \\"force capable of standing up to the Turks.\\"  Without this Papal involvement (which included 15% financing and troops), the Turks would have picked off the Christian states piecemeal.  Even so, the League was always tenuous and threatened to fall apart on the eve of battle.  After the victory at Lepanto at the death of Pope Pius V, the League did indeed disintegrate. Lepanto 1571 is a fine example of the problems of coalition operations even when faced with a dire threat.<br /> It is also apparent that even by 1571, Islam was beginning to fall behind the West militarily.  Konstam notes that the six large Venetian galleasses \\"in the Christian fleet virtually amounted to a secret weapon, and represented the ultimate development of the oared warship.\\"  Indeed, the allies were so confident about the galleasses that they deployed them as an advance guard in front of the main battle line and these heavily armed ships were critical in disrupting the Muslim attack.  It is also interesting that the allied fleet, under Don John, based its plan on firepower rather than maneuver.  Although the rival fleets were equal in size, the Christians had 200 more guns than the Muslim fleet and they made it the centerpiece of their tactical plan.  Indeed, Don John ordered all wooden rams to be removed prior to the battle in order to give the guns better fields of fire.  While the Christians put their faith in artillery fire, the Muslim plan was based on maneuver.  The Muslim fleet had a number of smaller, more maneuverable craft and they hoped to use these to envelope the Christian battle line.  However, Muslim scouts erroneously reported that the Christian fleet was only about half its actual size and thus their fleet was committed to battle on the false assumption of numerical superiority.<br /> Konstam also does an excellent job portraying the ferocity of the Turkish war machine in the 16th Century, when Islam was a dangerous and aggressive force.  As a prelude to the Lepanto campaign, the Turks invaded Christian-held Cyprus in 1570; when the city of Nicosia fell after a brief siege, the Turks slaughtered virtually theentire Christian population of 20,000.  The city of Famagusta held out for nine months and only surrendered when the Turks agreed to spare the garrison and civilians.  Instead, the Turks abrogated the terms and massacred the unarmed Venetians.  The Venetian commander was flayed alive in the town square.  Throughout this period, the Turks were brutal aggressors and Europeans suffered many defeats at their hands.  Indeed, it is amazing how this period of Islamic aggression - which lasted for centuries - is now conveniently forgotten by Muslim politicians in the Mideast who constantly denounce \\"Western aggression.\\"<br /> Lepanto was a tough fight, with 85% of the Turkish fleet lost and 30% of the victorious Christian soldiers and sailors killed or wounded.  Although the Turkish tactical maneuvers almost upset the European battle plan, it was Christian gunnery and the courage of desperation that led to the final result.  Konstam notes that while the Muslim setback in 1565 had been troubling, that it was not until the catastrophe at Lepanto that Islamic aggression in the Mediterranean was permanently contained.lly the entire Christian population of 20,000.  The city of Famagusta held out for nine months and only surrendered when the Turks agreed to spare the garrison and civilians.  Instead, the Turks abrogated the terms and massacred the unarmed Venetians.  The Venetian commander was flayed alive in the town square.  Throughout this period, the Turks were brutal aggressors and Europeans suffered many defeats at their hands.  Indeed, it is amazing how this period of Islamic aggression - which lasted for centuries - is now conveniently forgotten by Muslim politicians in the Mideast who constantly denounce \\"Western aggression.\\"  <br /> Lepanto was a tough fight, with 85% of the Turkish fleet lost and 30% of the victorious Christian soldiers and sailors killed or wounded.  Although the Turkish tactical maneuvers almost upset the European battle plan, it was Christian gunnery and the courage of desperation that led to the final result.  Konstam notes that while the Muslim setback in 1565 had been troubling, that it was not until the catastrophe at Lepanto that Islamic aggression in the Mediterranean was permanently contained.	2003-04-17
1158634:US	52533596	R3A8BQR0AS215Y	1841765104	780947508	Stirling Bridge and Falkirk 1297-98: William Wallace's rebellion (Campaign)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	A Good Summary of the Scottish Hero	Amateur historian Pete Armstrong provides a good summary of William Wallace's famous rebellion against English rule in Scotland during 1297-1298.  The two principle battles of this rebellion were Stirling Bridge and Falkirk, the first a Scottish victory and the second an English victory.  Overall, Armstrong provides both insight and detail of this epic phase of the Scottish struggle for independence from English domination.<br /> Stirling Bridge &amp; Falkirk 1297-1298 begins with a nine-page introduction that explains how Scotland's dynastic problems led to English intervention.  The sections on opposing commanders and opposing armies are decent, but perhaps not as informative as they could have been (a diagram of tactical unit dispositions might have been helpful).  The maps are a bit skimpy in this volume, as there are only four 2-D maps instead of the typical 7-8; they are: Edward I's invasion in 1296, the campaign of 1297, the campaign of Falkirk and the campaigns of 1300-1307. There are also three 3-D &quot;Birds Eye View&quot; maps - two of Stirling Bridge and one of Falkirk.  The three battle scenes by Angus McBride depict William Wallace at Stirling, the Scottish attack at Stirling and the English cavalry at Falkirk.<br /> One aspect of this book that is particularly welcome for military historians is the attention that the author devotes to issues such as the terrain over which the battles were fought.  Clearly, the restrictive terrain at Stirling Bridge contributed significantly to the English defeat on that battlefield.  Similarly, the lack of suitable defensive terrain at Falkirk led to the Scottish defeat.  It is also clear that both sides were plagued by logistic problems and the lack of intelligence about enemy movements.	2003-04-14
1158951:US	52533596	R2A42C1BCKB2D2	0304356425	422953971	War Story (Cassell Military Paperbacks)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	The Beginnings of Hornet Squadron	In War Story, Derek Robinson begins his fictionalized account of \\"Hornet\\" Squadron in the British Royal Flying Corps (RFC).  Although War Story was written after several of Robinson's other novels depicting \\"Hornet\\" squadron, it essentially serves as a \\"prequel\\" that explains the background behind the unit and at least one key follow-on character.  The book is set in June 1916, just as the British are getting ready for the Battle of the Somme, and the squadron is equipped with the unusual FE2b \\"push-pull\\" aircraft.  There is much less aerial combat in this book compared to Robinson's other books, and the focus is more heavily on character development within the squadron.  As usual in his style, Robinson introduces the reader to a host of different personality types resident in a typical fighter squadron.  Overall, War Story is an excellent novel of life in a First World War fighter squadron and the way that war affects individuals differently.<br /> The main protagonist in War Story is the not very likeable Lieutenant Oliver Paxton.  This character reminds me somewhat of the character \\"Goodrich\\" in James Webb's Vietnam novel Fields of Fire; like Goodrich, Paxton encounters great difficulty in bonding with other members of his unit and is regarded as foolish and/or incompetent.  Yet like Goodrich, Paxton does experience personal growth through the \\"school of hard knocks\\" and by the end of the novel, he has involved into a totally different person.  Other major characters include the no-nonsense squadron commander Hugh Cleve-Cutler, the unflappable squadron adjutant Major Brazier (a former infantry lieutenant colonel demoted for shooting several of his troops who ran away under fire), and O'Neill, Paxton's tormenter and copilot.  Kellaway, who goes on to be the squadron adjutant in Robinson's Second World War novels \\"Piece of Cake\\" and \\"A Good Clean Fight,\\" is introduced as an accident-prone young replacement.  The relationships in the squadron may appear a bit odd or overly cruel at times, particularly in the brusque manner that replacements are treated, but this is probably quite accurate.  Of course, one by one, \\"Hornet\\" squadron is shorn of is veteran and rookie pilots, leaving only a handful alive.<br /> War Story is not quite as cynical as some of Robinson's other novels, but he does hammer home the lack of any romanticism in the air war.  Even the most idealistic pilots are rapidly worn down by fatigue, stress and the realization that their number is bound to come up in the near future.  While not quite as good as Goshawk Squadron or Piece of Cake, War Story is still a very good depiction of squadron life in the First World War.or overly cruel at times, particularly in the brusque manner that replacements are treated, but this is probably quite accurate.  Of course, one by one, \\"Hornet\\" squadron is shorn of is veteran and rookie pilots, leaving only a handful alive.  <br /> War Story is not quite as cynical as some of Robinson's other novels, but he does hammer home the lack of any romanticism in the air war.  Even the most idealistic pilots are rapidly worn down by fatigue, stress and the realization that their number is bound to come up in the near future.  While not quite as good as Goshawk Squadron or Piece of Cake, War Story is still a very good depiction of squadron life in the First World War.	2003-04-14
1159242:US	52533596	R1RSY2K8SCXIS3	0304356433	198003988	Goshawk Squadron (Cassell Military Classics)	Books	5	37	37	N	Y	The Leadership Style of Major Woolley	Derek Robinson wrote Goshawk Squadron in 1971 and began his depiction of squadron life in the Royal Flying Corps (later Royal Air Force).  Unlike his later novels that focused on the fictional \\"Hornet\\" squadron, this first effort focused on the \\"Goshawk\\" squadron, but the method and characters are essentially similar.  The main protagonist in Goshawk Squadron is the unit commander, Major Stanley Woolley.  This character is clearly defined as an anti-hero, indeed his behavior and methods may appear repugnant or even borderline insane.  However, Robinson succeeds in developing an odd pathos behind Woolley and over the course of the novel the reader should gain understanding of the forces that drive this odd character, if not empathy for him.  Modern-day military officers might benefit from studying the command methods of Woolley, particularly in preparing units for combat.  Overall, Goshawk Squadron is a true classic that delivers vivid characters and action that draws the reader further and further into the realities of air combat in the First World War.<br /> Goshawk Squadron is set in the period January-March 1918, just before the German spring offensives.  The squadron is equipped with the SE-5a fighter and begins the novel resting and re-building behind the lines.  Woolley has been commander of the squadron for one year and although fanatical in his training methods, he is approaching combat burnout.  Indeed, Woolley is so cynical (but realistic, as it turns out) that he believes all his pilots will be dead within three months.  In a seemingly futile but rabid effort, Woolley spends the brief period behind the lines to train his squadron to be the most cold-blooded and efficient killers possible.  Woolley's combat ethics clearly clash with the English public school morals of his young pilots; Woolley bans words like \\"sporting,\\" or \\"fair fight\\" from his squadron.  In these pages, Robinson depicts how four years of harsh, non-stop combat have produced a killer elite in men like Woolley, whose only philosophy is \\"kill or be killed.\\"  To modern eyes, Woolley's training methods will seem callous and cruel, resulting in needless pain and suffering on his pilots.  Indeed, Woolley terrorizes his pilots, to include throwing beer bottles and shooting at slow learners.  The pilots in Goshawk Squadron hate their commander, but they are also better prepared to survive when they return to operational service.  When the great German offensive begins in March 1918, Goshawk Squadron is committed to try and stem the German onslaught as the British front line crumbles.  Robinson provides excellent detail both on balloon-busting and close air support attacks, circa 1918.<br /> Woolley does begin to evolve over the course of the novel, as do his pilots.  Yet Goshawk Squadron is never a happy unit and modern military readers might question whether the increase in unit efficiency is worth the drop in morale.  Woolley makes better killers, but the squadron is visibly falling apart by the end of the novel.  Can a combat unit really function for long based merely on fear of the commander?  And what is the result when that long-punishing tyrant suddenly decides to ease up on his troops?  These questions are never fully addressed by Robinson, but remain lurking in the corners.  On the other hand, one of the great scenes in the novel is a confrontation between Woolley and a REMF colonel from headquarters.  Unlike other military novels that attempt to portray the clash between the war fighter and rear echelon types, there is no effort toward subterfuge by Woolley.  Instead, Woolley starts blasting away at the colonel with his pistol until he wins the argument (\\"You can't kill me,\\" says the colonel.  \\"I will kill you, take your body up in my plane, and dump it behind German lines,\\" says Woolley.  In a war where thousands disappeared without a trace, this is a convincing threat.).  Robinson's point here is that it is difficult to threaten a man with theoretical punitive actions when he is facing the very real threat of death in combat on a daily basis.  Advice to REMFs: don't go to the front line in a war and threaten combat soldiers with administrative actions, if you do, wear a flak jacket.heoretical punitive actions when he is facing the very real threat of death in combat on a daily basis.  Advice to REMFs: don't go to the front line in a war and threaten combat soldiers with administrative actions, if you do, wear a flak jacket.	2003-04-14
1176732:US	52533596	R6IJ9FWZE666Y	0300066635	189948442	Battle Tactics of the Western Front: The British Army`s Art of Attack, 1916-18	Books	2	21	31	N	N	A Straw man Hypothesis	Paddy Griffith, a former lecturer at Sandhurst, challenges the commonly held view that the British army's performance in the First World was a string of tactical disasters.  It is Griffith's contention that, \\"the British army gradually improved its techniques and technology,\\" and it was this improvement that enabled them to win the war.  Griffith sees the war as divided into two distinct phases: a prepatory phase in 1914-1916, where the BEF was gradually re-shaped into a large-scale army and the final phase from July 2, 1916 to the armistice.  Griffith asserts that the first day of the Battle of the Somme was the dividing line between these two phases.  While parts of this book are interesting, there is nothing really new here and the work is far more interested in historiography than tactical detail.<br />  Battle Tactics of the Western Front consists of ten chapters beginning with an introduction and the tactical dilemma of trench warfare.  The main sections of the book consist of sections on infantry tactics and heavier weapons (automatic weapons, artillery and tanks).  Griffith finishes with a chapter on the BEF's tactical achievement and three appendices.  The extensive notes and bibliography provided indicate breadth of research, if not depth of insight.<br /> The fundamental flaw in this book is that Griffith's main hypothesis is a straw man theory.  Don't most armies improve after 3-4 years of warfare?  Even the losers, the Germans, Russians and Austrians, achieved tactical improvements over time.  Since it is hard to see how the BEF could not have improved tactically over the course of the war, it is really difficult to see the unique value of the author's thesis or conclusions.  Indeed, how could Griffith be wrong?  Actually, the question should not be whether the British army improved over time, but did it improve as quickly as other armies?  Griffith lambasts the Germans, slights the Americans and ignores the French, so this study makes little effort at comparison.  While there are some useful sections on how the British improved their artillery tactics, there is very little effort to actually quantify the British improvement.<br /> Another fundamental problem with Battle Tactics of the Western Front is that the author uses a very poor methodology to make his case.  Ideally, the author would have detailed the 100-150 corps-size battles that the British fought in 1916-1918 and then attempted to use statistics to analyze the question of improved tactical efficiency.  While there are selected efforts in regard to artillery tactics, these examples are too narrow to validate a theory.  Indeed, since there is no real effort at analysis or comparison, the work becomes rather polemical and makes no real effort to objectively validate the thesis.  Instead of focusing on operational-level details, the author continually veers toward condemning alternate historiographical approaches that differs from his (petty axe-grinding).<br /> In addition to a rather tautological hypothesis and poor methodology, the author constantly confuses the scope of this work by inter-mixing discussions of operational-level and strategic-level issues (there is really very little discussion of the tactical level).  There are also a number of other troubling issues concerning the author's objectivity, or lack of same.  According to Griffith, some 10-14 of the 66 British Divisions in France were \\"elite,\\" despite the lack of special selection, training or equipment.  How could 15-20% of any mass-based army be considered elite?  The reader may also become incredulous when Griffith describes disasters like 3rd Ypres in 1917 as a \\"partial success.\\"  How British (just like Dunkirk was a \\"victory\\").  Griffith is also extremely bigoted against the Tank Corps and one of his objectives appears to be to refute the idea that tanks contributed in any significant way to the final victory.  Griffith denigrates tanks by claiming that they were essentially \\"disposable\\" weapons, good for only eight hours of combat, but this is sheer nonsense.  At Cambrai, Griffith ignores the fact that British tanks fought for ten days straight.  Griffith also lays into other pundits, such as Liddell Hart.  Indeed, Griffith wastes a great deal of space on silly subjects, such as the distribution of typewriters in the BEF.  What Griffith does not provide - but should have - is an analysis of the basic tactical \\"battlefield operating systems\\" (maneuver, intelligence, fire support, mobility/counter mobility, C2, logistics, medical, and air defense).  While Griffith could claim that he addresses maneuver and fire support, with some mention of engineers, the other factors are all ignored.  The exclusion of tactical intelligence and logistics are particularly egregious.<br /> In sum, this is an immaculately researched but poorly crafted effort that does little to enhance our knowledge of tactical doctrine or operations in the First World War.  The author set a low bar for himself but then failed to achieve even that, preferring to grind axes instead.  While there is no doubt that the British enjoyed some significant tactical successes in the First World War (Arras 1917, Cambrai 1917), the evidence of 1914-1918 indicates that the British were generally solid on the defense but unspectacular on the offense.  While the BEF certainly learned some lessons after four years, they were learned at high cost and it is doubtful that the BEF's learning curve was ahead of anybody else's.  Griffith's work is unlikely to alter anybody's impression that that the BEF tasted of failure and frustration far more than it did of success.isposable\\" weapons, good for only eight hours of combat, but this is sheer nonsense.  At Cambrai, Griffith ignores the fact that British tanks fought for ten days straight.  Griffith also lays into other pundits, such as Liddell Hart.  Indeed, Griffith wastes a great deal of space on silly subjects, such as the distribution of typewriters in the BEF.  What Griffith does not provide - but should have - is an analysis of the basic tactical \\"battlefield operating systems\\" (maneuver, intelligence, fire support, mobility/counter mobility, C2, logistics, medical, and air defense).  While Griffith could claim that he addresses maneuver and fire support, with some mention of engineers, the other factors are all ignored.  The exclusion of tactical intelligence and logistics are particularly egregious.  <br /> In sum, this is an immaculately researched but poorly crafted effort that does little to enhance our knowledge of tactical doctrine or operations in the First World War.  The author set a low bar for himself but then failed to achieve even that, preferring to grind axes instead.  While there is no doubt that the British enjoyed some significant tactical successes in the First World War (Arras 1917, Cambrai 1917), the evidence of 1914-1918 indicates that the British were generally solid on the defense but unspectacular on the offense.  While the BEF certainly learned some lessons after four years, they were learned at high cost and it is doubtful that the BEF's learning curve was ahead of anybody else's.   Griffith's work is unlikely to alter anybody's impression that that the BEF tasted of failure and frustration far more than it did of success.	2003-03-30
1176896:US	52533596	R1J6SCNO4OCN31	1841764302	94777875	Hadrian's Wall AD 122-410 (Fortress, 2)	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Buy the Visitor Guide Instead of this Book	Hadrian's Wall AD 122 - 410 is the second in Osprey's new Fortress series that aims to summarize the \\"design, technology and history of key fortresses, strategic positions and defensive systems.\\"  This new series should serve to fill in many of the gaps of traditional military history, by providing greater detail on the fortresses that have shaped warfare throughout the centuries.  Having spent a day exploring Hadrian's Wall several years ago, I felt that few could fail to be impressed by this unique remnant of Roman military engineering.  Unfortunately, I wish I could say that same about Osprey's Fortress #2, but I cannot.  Dr. Nic Fields, a professor in Ancient History at the University of Edinburgh, knows his material but writes in the typical horrid British academic style that reduces all the essential elements of this topic to a opaque mush.  Like many academics who write about ancient military history, Fields is too-often sidetracked by esoteric archaeological issues and cannot focus on the actual military aspects of his subject.  Furthermore, Fields has borrowed liberally from D.J. Breeze's earlier works on Hadrian's Wall and readers would be advised to check out that author's work in preference to this volume.<br /> Hadrian's Wall AD 122 - 410 begins with a description of the various types of Roman fortifications, the origins of the wall and a very brief chronology.  The heart of the book lies in the chapters discussing the anatomy of the wall, the wall's construction, the function of the wall, it's garrison and life on the wall.  The author includes three low-quality 2-D maps, all of which are inferior to those in the Visitor's Guide one can purchase on the modern site of the wall.  There are also seven color art scenes that are decent: a milecastle, a turret, the cavalry fort at Chesters, early development of the wall, the fort at Birdoswald, a night raid on the wall and a Roman punitive raid against the Caledonians.  One of the best aspects of the volume is a detailed chart that depicts the various Roman garrisons at all the major locations of the Wall in the 2nd and 3rd Centuries. Unfortunately, since the author makes little effort to discuss Roman military organization, it is difficult to determine how many troops (at least the nominal strength) might have been along the wall in these periods.<br /> The fundamental problem with this volume is that the author views the Wall in terms of its material - brick, stone and mortar - instead of how it fit doctrinally into Rome's military strategy.  With precious little insight, the author advances the theory that the wall was primarily designed as an observation platform rather than a fighting position, since the walls were too narrow.  Further, Dr Fields argues that since the Roman Army was an \\"offensive army,\\" it did not defend static positions.  This is nonsense.  Anyone who has seen Hadrian's Wall and has knowledge of basic defensive tactics will see that the Roman units chose terrain that was very advantageous for defense.  If the wall was merely intended for observation as the author contends, why not build simple earth ramparts with watchtowers, like the Limes in Germany?<br />  The author also contends that the defenses of Hadrian's Wall were not particularly impressive but this is also rubbish, since the various tribes in the north of Scotland lacked any tools for siege warfare.  A 21-foot high stonewall with a garrison atop it would have been a very serious obstacle to lightly armed and poorly-organized tribesmen.  The fact that the tribesmen did breach a section of the wall in 181 AD is far more indicative of a temporary lapse in Roman discipline and order than a fundamental defect in Hadrian's Wall.  The Roman's built Hadrian's Wall - an enormous effort and expense - in order to achieve economy of force in what was essentially a secondary theater.  By building the wall, the Romans could garrison the northern frontier of Britannia with modest auxiliary forces, allowing some of the regular legions to be transferred to more critical theaters like Germany and the Danube.  Even the regular Roman units that remained in England could be utilized to secure the major population centers, rather than wasting away on a thinly populated frontier.  At the cost of a five-year engineering effort, the Romans secured their northern frontier in Britannia for nearly three centuries - a bargain.<br /> Hadrian's Wall is worthy of study as a very cost-effective effort that achieved the maximum efficiency for Roman Britain at the lowest cost.  The construction of the wall was truly amazing and Dr Fields failed to emphasize that the wall was built by infantryman, not trained engineers (although there were technical advisors).  When one visits the wall today, the visitor can see unit insignias such as bulls or lions engraved on the century markers, denoting which infantry company (centuria) built that section of the wall.  The pride in their achievement, as well as its longevity, are evident for all to see - except in this book.y forces, allowing some of the regular legions to be transferred to more critical theaters like Germany and the Danube.  Even the regular Roman units that remained in England could be utilized to secure the major population centers, rather than wasting away on a thinly populated frontier.  At the cost of a five-year engineering effort, the Romans secured their northern frontier in Britannia for nearly three centuries - a bargain.  <br /> Hadrian's Wall is worthy of study as a very cost-effective effort that achieved the maximum efficiency for Roman Britain at the lowest cost.  The construction of the wall was truly amazing and Dr Fields failed to emphasize that the wall was built by infantryman, not trained engineers (although there were technical advisors).  When one visits the wall today, the visitor can see unit insignias such as bulls or lions engraved on the century markers, denoting which infantry company (centuria) built that section of the wall.  The pride in their achievement, as well as its longevity, are evident for all to see - except in this book.	2003-03-30
1183891:US	52533596	R37RU9NI5ING0J	1841763330	820719740	First Newbury 1643: The turning point (Campaign)	Books	2	5	6	N	Y	Not One of Osprey's Better Volumes	Osprey's Campaign #116, First Newbury 1643, covers an action in the second season of the English Civil War.  This book is obviously designed to appeal primarily to English audiences and hence, seems more narrowly focused than most other volumes in this series.  American readers may ponder not only why this battle is described by the author as the &quot;turning point&quot; of the war, but also why such a seemingly minor action merits a book in the same series as Waterloo, Kursk and Gettysburg.  The author spends the bulk of the volume relating events leading up to the battle then spends less than 10% on the battle itself.  Furthermore, the author's plodding writing style and inattention to detail will surely make a murky situation even more opaque.  First Newbury 1643 should only be purchased to round out one's Osprey collection, since it is not one of the better volumes in this series.<br />  First Newbury 1643 begins with a rather lengthy eight-page introduction, followed by a brief section on the art of war in England in 1600-1650.  The sections on opposing commanders and opposing armies comprise another 18 pages.  The bulk of the campaign narrative focuses on events leading up to the Battle of Newbury, with only eight pages of text covering the battle itself.  There are three 3-D Bird's Eye View maps of the Battle of Newbury and five 2-D maps (England in 1643, the siege of Gloucester, the march from Gloucester to Newbury, the march from Newbury to London, and England in late 1643).  Perhaps the best parts of this book are the three well-done battle scenes: a parliament sally during the siege of Gloucester, cavalry clash at Newbury and Parliament infantry at Newbury.<br />  Reading the first thirty pages or so of First Newbury 1643, I was struck by this author's seeming inability to describe military history in other than the most mundane terms (e.g. &quot;on such-and-such a date, this body of troops marched here, and then on the next day, they marched there...&quot;).  The author incorporates huge chunks - actually far too much - of several contemporary accounts into his narrative and is constantly switching between 17th Century and 21st Century English in the same paragraph.  As for describing the Battle of Newbury, not only does the author make no mention of casualties, but he seems at a loss to explain the significance of any of the events described.  The description of First Newbury - a minor battle that ended inconclusively - as the &quot;turning point&quot; of the war appears ludicrous.  Surely the battles of Marston Moor or Naseby were more significant and decisive.  Overall, this book is superficially attractive but poorly-written and historically lightweight.re...&quot;).  The author incorporates huge chunks - actually far too much - of several contemporary accounts into his narrative and is constantly switching between 17th Century and 21st Century English in the same paragraph.  As for describing the Battle of Newbury, not only does the author make no mention of casualties, but he seems at a loss to explain the significance of any of the events described.  The description of First Newbury - a minor battle that ended inconclusively - as the &quot;turning point&quot; of the war appears ludicrous.  Surely the battles of Marston Moor or Naseby were more significant and decisive.  Overall, this book is superficially attractive but poorly-written and historically lightweight.	2003-03-23
1184405:US	52533596	R1KDGJOGBXYG79	1841763691	920754400	The Spanish Civil War	Books	4	47	53	N	Y	An Excellent Primer on the Spanish Civil War	Since the war ended in 1939, the Spanish Civil War has been obscured by romantic mythology created by foreign writers like Ernest Hemmingway and subsequent historians, who have tended to portray this conflict as, \\"the first great, heroic confrontation between fascism and democracy.\\"  Frances Lannon, an Oxford history professor, notes that in this traditional interpretation, \\"the Second Republic remains a great cause that was worth dying for.\\"  Lannon eschews this traditional depiction of the conflict in simplistic black and white terms, a fight between fascists and communists for the soul of Spain, and views the war in much more complex terms.  Lannon's account is well written and rich in detail; her particular areas of interest are the role of women in both sides of the war and the role of the Catholic Church in the conflict.  Overall, Lannon's book is an excellent primer on the war as well as representing a far more balanced and objective account than has come from other quarters.<br />  The Spanish Civil War 1936-1939 begins with short sections on the background to the war.  These sections are interesting because they demonstrate that both sides had compelling reasons to resort to violence.  While the Republicans (encompassing such diverse groups as urban trade unionists, rural peasants, intellectuals, communists and anarchists) viewed the Church, monarchists and the military as obstacles to the development of more liberalized conditions in Spain, the Nationalists fought to defend the traditional order from what they viewed as the imposition of alien cultural values.  Due to the period of violence and disorder that preceded the outbreak of civil war, Lannon notes that, \\"many ordinary Catholics concluded that the new state would not respect their religion or protect property.\\" Rather than the simplistic political depiction of democracy versus fascist, Lannon shows that the conflict had a strong religious dimension, and thus the conflict also could be depicted as Catholics versus atheists.  Indeed, once the civil war started, Lannon notes that, \\"Catholicism went underground in Republican Spain, as churches burned and religious images were destroyed.\\"<br />  Lannon's section on the warring sides is a bit short at three pages, but she gets the relative balance of the two forces. Her section on the fighting is 32 pages long and again, gets the main points, but without embellishment.  At heart, this is more of a social history of a civil war, rather than a purely military history, and some readers may be disappointed by the short shrift given to topics like the German Condor Legion or the International Brigades.  The text is complemented by nine maps: Spain in 1936, the first defense of Madrid, the route of the African army in 1936, fighting around Madrid in 1936-1937, the Battle for Madrid in November 1936, the fall of Malaga, the war in Vizcaya, the Battle of the Ebro, and Spain in July 1938.  Lannon clearly likes the colorful propaganda posters produced by both sides during the war and includes eight full-page examples(almost 10% of the volume); a few more actual photos of the war might have been a better choice.<br />  Some readers may feel that Lannon goes easy on the nature of the Nationalists, given the terror bombing of Basque villages like Guernica and the subsequent repression under Franco's regime.  In fact, something of a \\"Lost Cause\\" mythology has developed around the Republican cause, ascribing all sorts of democratic and liberal aspirations that were not evident in the policies of the Republicans.  Indeed, reading Lannon, most readers will feel more revulsion at reading about the abuses of the Republicans, who murdered over 2,000 people (including 68 monks) in Madrid in November 1936.  Lannon notes that, \\"one side protected religion, the other [the Republicans] attacked it and drove it underground.  Churches were destroyed, religious symbols and statutes defaced and smashed.\\"  Not only were church marriages outlawed under the Republic but Lannon notes extreme examples where one witness saw, \\"the exhumed bodies of nuns in their shrouds that the revolutionaries had torn out of their tombs and displayed in the street.\\"  Was this a regime worth dying for?  Lannon does note the repressive nature of the Franco regime, particularly in its hour of victory, when no effort was made at reconciliation with the defeated Republicans.  About 50,000 people lost their lives in post-war executions and tens of thousands spent years languishing in prison.  There is no doubt that both sides fought a brutal war of extermination against the other, but Lannon's account offers the possibility of distinguishing between the lesser of two evils.  Despite an authoritarian structure, Lannon notes that Franco's Spain \\"was still a dictatorship, but its economy and society had modernized\\" by the 1970s.  Lannon calls the rapid dismantlement of Franco's regime after his death in 1975, \\"one of the most successful transitions from dictatorship to democracy of the late 20th Century.\\"<br />  Another theme that Lannon touches upon is the failure of international diplomacy.  The British and French pushed the Non-Intervention Agreement in August 1936, by which signatories promised not to ship arms to Spain.  Germany, Italy and the Soviet Union signed the agreement and then promptly violated it. However the failure of the Anglo-French to inhibit German intervention in Spain, coupled with the Nazi occupation of Czechoslovakia, helped to instill more resolve to oppose German aggression in Eastern Europe.riages outlawed under the Republic but Lannon notes extreme examples where one witness saw, \\"the exhumed bodies of nuns in their shrouds that the revolutionaries had torn out of their tombs and displayed in the street.\\"  Was this a regime worth dying for?  Lannon does note the repressive nature of the Franco regime, particularly in its hour of victory, when no effort was made at reconciliation with the defeated Republicans.  About 50,000 people lost their lives in post-war executions and tens of thousands spent years languishing in prison.  There is no doubt that both sides fought a brutal war of extermination against the other, but Lannon's account offers the possibility of distinguishing between the lesser of two evils.  Despite an authoritarian structure, Lannon notes that Franco's Spain \\"was still a dictatorship, but its economy and society had modernized\\" by the 1970s.  Lannon calls the rapid dismantlement of Franco's regime after his death in 1975, \\"one of the most successful transitions from dictatorship to democracy of the late 20th Century.\\"  <br />      Another theme that Lannon touches upon is the failure of international diplomacy.  The British and French pushed the Non-Intervention Agreement in August 1936, by which signatories promised not to ship arms to Spain.  Germany, Italy and the Soviet Union signed the agreement and then promptly violated it. However the failure of the Anglo-French to inhibit German intervention in Spain, coupled with the Nazi occupation of Czechoslovakia, helped to instill more resolve to oppose German aggression in Eastern Europe.	2003-03-23
1191429:US	52533596	R1CXL6AFJS33Y	1841765600	211439315	115: Battle of the Bulge 1944 (1): St Vith and the Northern Shoulder (Campaign)	Books	4	14	16	N	Y	Solid Craftsmanship	As usual, noted armor export Stephen J Zaloga delivers the goods in Osprey Campaign #115, Battle of the Ardennes (I): St Vith and the Northern Shoulder.  The northern sector of the \\"Battle of the Bulge\\" generally receives far less coverage than the fighting further south around Bastogne, but Zaloga clearly states that this was in fact, where the battle was decided.  Zaloga's thesis - while not particularly original - is solidly crafted in a thorough narrative.  Zaloga demonstrates that the German offensive was a poorly planned gamble, executed by marginally trained troops, over adverse terrain in poor weather against an adaptable foe.  All these factors added up to rapid German culmination in a matter of days, which is why this volume only covers the period 16-25 December 1944.<br />  Battle of the Ardennes (I) begins in standard Osprey format with a short section on the origins of the campaign and a chronology (up to 24 December 1944).  There are three sections discussing opposing plans, opposing commanders and opposing armies.  The section on opposing plans is quite good and includes a section on weather and terrain, both of which had a decisive impact on the German offensive.  Zaloga notes that Patton's G-2 accurately predicted a German counteroffensive in the Ardennes and this gave Third Army a big edge in responding to the attack. The section on opposing commanders, as usual with Zaloga, is the weakest section due to its over-emphasis on high-level commanders at the expense of the junior officers who actually fought the actions discussed in this volume (why is Jochen Peiper not in this section?).  The eight-page section on opposing armies is useful and notes the low quality of German replacements in even their supposedly elite Waffen SS and Fallschirmj&auml;ger units.  Indeed, Zaloga demonstrates that despite better equipment, many of the German units had to employ much less sophisticated tactics than in previous years.  On the other hand, the US Army's neglect of cold weather gear and the placement of the corps boundary in the Losheim Gap (\\"a traditional invasion route\\") were serious mistakes.  The order of battle provided is too bare-bones, listing only division-level units, and in light of Osprey's Order of Battle series on this campaign Zaloga could have listed more of the vital engineer, artillery and tank destroyer units.  Battle of the Ardennes (I) has three 3-D maps (Battle for Krinkelt & Rocherath, Kampfgruppe Peiper's route and the Battle at Dom Butgenbach); these maps are only so-so and the one on Peiper is practically useless since it covers too large an area. The five 2-D maps are fine (strategic situation, German planned routes, initial attacks of 6th Panzer Army, destruction of the US 106th Division, and defense of St Vith) but the maps do not fully portray the US defense of the Elsenborn Ridge and even Peiper's route is difficult to follow with these maps.  The three battle scenes are: Panzer graveyard at Krinkelt, Kampfgruppe Pieper and the rearguard at St Vith.  The photographs throughout the volume, culled primarily from the National Archives, are excellent - particularly if one enjoys photos of burning Panther tanks.  The photographs of the American 99th Infantry Division's reinforced log bunkers with overhead cover are impressive examples of fieldworks.<br />  Zaloga is particularly adept at demonstrating the relative combat efficiency of the American and German forces at this time. In one notable action on the first day of the German offensive, an American scout platoon from the 1/394th Infantry held off the German 5th Fallschirmj&auml;ger Regiment at the village of Lanzerath for the bulk of a day.  Zaloga notes that both regiments of this worn-out airborne division mounted repeated frontal attacks across open ground in broad daylight and were mown down by US machine guns, which speaks volumes for the decline of German tactical competence.  Although the US scout platoon was eventually overwhelmed andcaptured, this rearguard action unhinged the German timetable for the 1st SS Panzer Division's intended exploitation to the Meuse River, and this platoon became the most decorated American unit of the war.  Zaloga also notes the huge difference in artillery capabilities.  While the German preliminary artillery bombardment was relatively ineffective, time and again the Americans were able to mass huge amounts of artillery fire to smash or disrupt German forces preparing to attack (many accounts tend to portray US ground forces as helpless with air support - this was the German perception of US forces - which ignores the vital, all-weather contributions of US artillery).  On the other hand, the loss of most of the US 106th Division - the biggest American surrender in the ETO - was due to a combination of inexperience and bad luck.  Zaloga does not delve deeply enough into the personal factors involved at St Vith, including the relationship between MGN Alan Jones of the 106th Division and BGN Bruce Clarke of the 7th Armored Division, which go a long way toward explaining the situation there.<br />  Zaloga does cover the German special operations Grief and Stosser, but his coverage of the defense of St Vith is rather brief.  In conclusion, Zaloga points to many factors for the failure of the German operation: (1) Dietrich, commander of the 6th Panzer Army, under-estimated the US defenses, (2) the preliminary German artillery barrage was ineffective but alerted the US troops of imminent attack, (3) the German infantry units in the first wave assaulting units lacked sufficient armor support and (4) the Germans tried to push too many units down a few main roads, without using the numerous forest trails.  These points are all valid, but they only explain how the Germans lost the battle, not how the Americans won it.  In short, the US Army won in the Ardennes due to increased tactical competence, which enabled US forces to adapt and improvise ad hoc defenses with whatever was at hand, until overwhelming reinforcements arrived from the northern and southern flanks.nd captured, this rearguard action unhinged the German timetable for the 1st SS Panzer Division's intended exploitation to the Meuse River, and this platoon became the most decorated American unit of the war.  Zaloga also notes the huge difference in artillery capabilities.  While the German preliminary artillery bombardment was relatively ineffective, time and again the Americans were able to mass huge amounts of artillery fire to smash or disrupt German forces preparing to attack (many accounts tend to portray US ground forces as helpless with air support - this was the German perception of US forces - which ignores the vital, all-weather contributions of US artillery).  On the other hand, the loss of most of the US 106th Division - the biggest American surrender in the ETO - was due to a combination of inexperience and bad luck.  Zaloga does not delve deeply enough into the personal factors involved at St Vith, including the relationship between MGN Alan Jones of the 106th Division and BGN Bruce Clarke of the 7th Armored Division, which go a long way toward explaining the situation there.  <br />       Zaloga does cover the German special operations Grief and Stosser, but his coverage of the defense of St Vith is rather brief.  In conclusion, Zaloga points to many factors for the failure of the German operation: (1) Dietrich, commander of the 6th Panzer Army, under-estimated the US defenses, (2) the preliminary German artillery barrage was ineffective but alerted the US troops of imminent attack, (3) the German infantry units in the first wave assaulting units lacked sufficient armor support and (4) the Germans tried to push too many units down a few main roads, without using the numerous forest trails.  These points are all valid, but they only explain how the Germans lost the battle, not how the Americans won it.  In short, the US Army won in the Ardennes due to increased tactical competence, which enabled US forces to adapt and improvise ad hoc defenses with whatever was at hand, until overwhelming reinforcements arrived from the northern and southern flanks.	2003-03-16
1195363:US	52533596	R20RJKCGSAM80Z	0304356980	726158463	Gettysburg	Books	4	14	16	N	Y	A Different Spin on the Classic Battle	Why do we need another book on Gettysburg?  First, this book by Hugh Bicheno is part of the excellent Cassell Field of battle series, which is marked by high-quality maps, data and writing.  Second, the historiography of the Battle of Gettysburg has become so entrenched in popular mythology that this examination by a foreign observer serves to put the battle in a different light.  Bicheno admits that his book is primarily a synthesis of earlier works by Coddington and Pfanz, but nobody really expects original research on this heavily documented subject.  The main value of this book are the excellent color maps, two very detailed orders of battle and the author's insight into what occurred.  Readers may not agree with everything that Bicheno asserts (I did not), but his views do stimulate new thinking about the classic battle of the American Civil War.<br /> Gettysburg consists of fifteen chapters, beginning with the pre-battle movements into Pennsylvania.  There are three chapters on the first day fighting, eight on the second day, and three on the third day.  Each chapter includes a full-page color map that depicts the primary action described in that chapter - an excellent methodology.  In fact, the maps are the heart and soul of this work.  On the negative side, the maps lack a scale, a chronology or exact enumeration of all units depicted, so it can be difficult to relate events on one map to events on another.  On the plus side, the maps are simple but accurate and Bicheno has included a number of maps on the wheat field and the peach orchard - actions usually neglected in other accounts.  Finally, Bicheno ends his narrative with a concluding chapter, a bibliography and four appendices.  The photographs in this volume are decent but not particularly original (oddly, there is not a single photo of the modern battlefield).<br /> Bicheno sees his task as correcting the inherent &quot;Lost Cause&quot; bias that claims that Lee lost this battle due a variety of unfortunate circumstances.  Instead, Bicheno asserts that Meade and the Union army WON the battle, despite the best efforts of Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia.  The author also seeks to break the narrative of Gettysburg out of the conventional Buford-Longstreet-Chamberlain-Pickett-Armistead perspective that became entrenched by Michael Shaara's popular The Killer Angels (which completely ignored events on Culp's Hill),  Bicheno is particularly persuasive when arguing which events were later considered important and why.  For example, Chamberlain's defense of Little Round Top has been mythologized into one of the decisive events of the battle, but Bicheno asks why similar events like the bayonet charge of the 1st Minnesota, the stand of the 17th Maine at Plum Run or Greene's defense of Culp's Hill shouldn't be regarded in the same light.  Indeed, why single out Chamberlain's 20th Maine for praise when the rest of Vincent's brigade fought just as hard for the other side of Little Round Top?  In an example from the Confederate side, why does Pickett's division attract all the attention when the assault of Pettigrew's division accomplished more?  Bicheno does cover all the standard episodes of the battle, but he puts them in perspective.  Certainly anyone interested in Gettysburg should consider the amazing attack of Barksdale's Louisiana brigade at the Peach Orchard, just as much as Buford's or Chamberlain's actions.<br /> One aspect of the book that will either intrigue or enrage readers is Bicheno's tendency to depict all the major characters as more or less flawed individuals (sometimes based on innuendo).  In these pages, Lincoln appears as a devious politician, A P Hill has gonorrhea, Longstreet is a second-rate general who thinks he knows best, Chamberlain is a self-promoter (along with Sickles and Jubal Early), Rebel General Johnson pounds his men with a walking stick, Hancock claims credit for other officer's deeds and Lee is a listless commander, veering between apathy and bloodlust.  Personally, I believe Bicheno goes too far in his interpretations, particularly in regard to his evident loathing of Lincoln.  While Bicheno does bring a few obscure heroes to light - such as the Union Colonel Philippe de Trobriand on Cemetery Hill - there is too much negativism in these interpretations.<br /> Overall, Gettysburg is a good account of the classic battle, particularly in the way that it sheds light on aspects of the fighting that are ignored in popular accounts.  When you read Bicheno's account, particularly of the second day's fighting, you will see that actions on various sectors influenced each other and were not merely individual episodes.  Bicheno concludes that, &quot;it was no accident that Union reserves appeared at the right place time and again,&quot; and by linking the various sectors together in his narrative he is able to demonstrate General Meade's accomplishment in shuffling troops from one sector to another.etween apathy and bloodlust.  Personally, I believe Bicheno goes too far in his interpretations, particularly in regard to his evident loathing of Lincoln.  While Bicheno does bring a few obscure heroes to light - such as the Union Colonel Philippe de Trobriand on Cemetery Hill - there is too much negativism in these interpretations.  <br /> Overall, Gettysburg is a good account of the classic battle, particularly in the way that it sheds light on aspects of the fighting that are ignored in popular accounts.  When you read Bicheno's account, particularly of the second day's fighting, you will see that actions on various sectors influenced each other and were not merely individual episodes.  Bicheno concludes that, &quot;it was no accident that Union reserves appeared at the right place time and again,&quot; and by linking the various sectors together in his narrative he is able to demonstrate General Meade's accomplishment in shuffling troops from one sector to another.	2003-03-13
1209960:US	52533596	R14DVSE4C21C8O	0304363634	287569966	Ironclads of Cambrai: The First Great Tank Battle	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The Successful Experiment	The Ironclads of Cambrai: The First Great Tank Battle was written in 1967 and re-issued by Cassell in 2002.  This book has weathered the last 35 years fairly well and is still a valuable and insightful account of the Battle of Cambrai in 1917.  Of all the battles of the First World War, Cambrai stands out not for its size, duration or the casualties but rather, due to the first successful use of armor on the operational level of warfare.  Although tanks had seen limited, tactical employment for over a year before Cambrai, they had not yet been employed in large numbers or on favorable terrain.  The Ironclads of Cambrai is also an excellent thumbnail history of the birthing pains of the British Tank Corps and the difficulties in introducing a new weapon system in the midst of a major war.  The author also covers the German counterattack that snatched victory away from the British at the last moment.  Overall, The Ironclads of Cambrai is an excellent account of this landmark operation, suited both for military professionals or the general public.<br /> The Ironclads of Cambrai consists of fifteen chapters, beginning with several on the creation of the Tank Corps and early actions in Flanders.  The author provides considerable detail on the development of the plan for the attack at Cambrai, beginning with the efforts by tank enthusiasts to mount an operation that would validate the combat effectiveness of the new weapon.  Interestingly, the British chose the Cambrai sector where the German Hindenburg Line defenses were thickest but the ground was suitable.  Apparently, the Germans had begun to believe that their defenses in this sector were indeed impregnable and did not react seriously to indications of a British offensive.  The Ironclads of Cambrai provides a clear example of the Clausewitzian dialectic in action; the Germans dug extra-wide trenches to inhibit tank attacks but the British developed \\"fascines\\" to fill in the trenches.  Indeed, the Germans were so smug about the ability of their wire and trenches to stop British tank attacks that they neglected to issue much armor-piercing ammunition to the front-line units near Cambrai.  The author's narrative is also supported by many simple, but effective sketch maps.<br /> Obviously the author's main argument is that Cambrai demonstrated that tanks offered a way out of the deadlock of trench warfare.  Cooper is fervently pro-tank throughout the book and delights in exposing the numerous British officers who criticized tanks before Cambrai.  There is little doubt that the first six hours of the British attack on 20 November 1917 stunned both sides; three front-line German divisions were routed at small cost but the British had not really anticipated such rapid movement.  Unfortunately, the British plan began unravel from the start due to a variety of factors.  Foremost, one of the British division commanders (Harper of the 51st) - a tank-hater - mis-used his armor and his unit was held up long enough to interfere with the units on either flank.  Although Cooper doesn't attach much importance to it, the British failure to adequately plan for engineering assets to help get tanks across the Canal de l'Escaut was a major factor inducing culmination in the British attack.  However, Cooper does differ from some other accounts of Cambrai that cite the lack of sufficient reserves as the reason the attack failed to reach Cambrai.  Cooper notes, \\"the lack of reserves was undoubtedly a vital factor at Cambrai, but it can be over-emphasized...there were more reserves available; but the Higher Command were not willing to make use of them for the initial attack.\\"  Rather, Cooper believes that, \\"the mistakes made were mainly due to an inability to understand and exploit a fight in open country...after three years of stagnant trench warfare.\\"<br /> Easily the best part of The Ironclads of Cambrai is the number of first-person accounts from tankers.  Despite their terrifying appearance to theGerman defenders, the early Mark IV tanks were virtually deaf and blind.  One commander noted that, \\"once we started there was no co-operation between tanks, no tactics, no external command - only the objectives we had been given and the method of attack we had been taught during training.\\"  Visibility outside the tank was extremely limited through tiny slits and some of the armor was not entirely bulletproof.  Oftentimes, German fire produced \\"spalling\\" or scabbing of the armor inside the tanks, requiring the crews to wear chain-mail face masks and body protection.  Cooper also describes the various German ad hoc anti-tank tactics developed at Cambrai, ranging from throwing sandbags full of grenades under the tracks (successful), to jumping atop the tanks (fatal), to infantrymen attempting to hang on to the barrels of the tank's weapons (foolish).<br /> Finally, Cooper spends the last couple of chapters discussing the German counterattack on 30 November 1917 that threw the British back on their heels.  Most of the tanks were withdrawn by this stage, but those remaining played a major role in preventing a British catastrophe.  Cooper is particularly scathing in detailing the whitewash effort by the court of inquiry after the battle, which blamed junior officers for the collapse instead of the complacent 3rd Army Commander (Gough).  While Cambrai's glory turned sour for most in the wake of this turnabout, Cooper sees the battle as a vital step in establishing the credibility of the Tank Corps.  Without Cambrai, the tanks might have remained a marginal weapon, used only in small numbers.  Instead, Cambrai showed what large numbers of tanks could achieve under favorable circumstances and is best viewed as a successful experiment.German defenders, the early Mark IV tanks were virtually deaf and blind.  One commander noted that, \\"once we started there was no co-operation between tanks, no tactics, no external command - only the objectives we had been given and the method of attack we had been taught during training.\\"  Visibility outside the tank was extremely limited through tiny slits and some of the armor was not entirely bulletproof.  Oftentimes, German fire produced \\"spalling\\" or scabbing of the armor inside the tanks, requiring the crews to wear chain-mail face masks and body protection.  Cooper also describes the various German ad hoc anti-tank tactics developed at Cambrai, ranging from throwing sandbags full of grenades under the tracks (successful), to jumping atop the tanks (fatal), to infantrymen attempting to hang on to the barrels of the tank's weapons (foolish).  <br /> Finally, Cooper spends the last couple of chapters discussing the German counterattack on 30 November 1917 that threw the British back on their heels.  Most of the tanks were withdrawn by this stage, but those remaining played a major role in preventing a British catastrophe.  Cooper is particularly scathing in detailing the whitewash effort by the court of inquiry after the battle, which blamed junior officers for the collapse instead of the complacent 3rd Army Commander (Gough).  While Cambrai's glory turned sour for most in the wake of this turnabout, Cooper sees the battle as a vital step in establishing the credibility of the Tank Corps.  Without Cambrai, the tanks might have remained a marginal weapon, used only in small numbers.  Instead, Cambrai showed what large numbers of tanks could achieve under favorable circumstances and is best viewed as a successful experiment.	2003-03-02
1227310:US	52533596	R1QP6MMNY4XP76	1841763608	206841930	Byzantium at War	Books	2	69	80	N	N	A Non-Essential History	John Haldon, a professor of Byzantine history at the University of Birmingham, misses the mark in Osprey's Essential History #33, Byzantium at War 600-14.  Haldon violates the series format throughout the text and fails to deliver a historical narrative as readers of this series expect.  Indeed, there is not one map of either a battle or campaign in this volume (e.g. Yarmuk, Manzikert).  Nor do any Byzantine generals figure prominently in these pages.  Byzantium at War 600-14 has some value for the miscellaneous topics covered by the author, but this is certainly not an \\"essential history.\\" Rather, the author states that, \\"it is the imperial armies, the way that they were maintained and how they fought, that is the main theme of this volume.\\"  This might be suitable for Osprey's Warrior series, but not this series.  Thus, Byzantium at War 600-14 fails to deliver a narrative history of the Byzantine Empire's wars during the selected period.<br /> Byzantium at War 600-1453 begins with a rather lengthy 11-page introduction (12% of the volume) and a chronology.  In the next sections, the author addresses the political world of Byzantium, its neighbors and enemies, and how Byzantium fought its wars.  These sections are overly generalized to a fault.  The section entitled \\"the fighting\\" - which is usually the main narrative in these volumes - is only 13 pages long and covers topics like tactical administration, strategy and logistics.  The section \\"portrait of a soldier\\" covers recruitment, discipline and the life on campaign of a typical soldier (note, there are no first person accounts or sources used).  Final sections include war and peace in the empire, portrait of a farmer, death of the empire and conclusions.  The bibliography is extremely thin given the large amount of material available on this subject, and the author provides only 14 references (including 4 by himself).  An appendix lists all Byzantine rulers.  The maps are a great disappointment and the eight provided merely depict the empire's boundaries between the 6th and 15th Centuries.  There are no maps of Turkish or Islamic expansion, no battle maps and only three maps even depict key cities (forget about finding Yarmuk or Manzikert on these maps).  Nor are the photographs in this volume much better, since the author apparently felt that wandering around modern-day Turkey and taking pictures of children playing in a street or oxen plowing a field would help the reader to understand Byzantine warfare.  Amazingly, there is not one photo of any weaponry, armor or other military artifacts.  Obviously, the Osprey series editor failed to ensure that this volume adhered to the series standard and the result is virtually a bric-a-brac approach to the subject.<br /> Professor Haldon's main points are that: (1) Byzantium was constantly at war because it was surrounded by enemies, (2) the empire's strategy was mainly defensive due to limited resources and (3) Byzantium successfully held off its enemies for eight centuries because of its superior logistical and financial base.  Haldon suggests that the Byzantines suffered occasional tactical defeats due to incompetent leadership but that their long-term decline was due to a steady erosion of the resource base.  Given that the author never discusses any battles or campaigns, it is hard to see how any of these conclusions are supported.  There is no doubt that the author has some valuable things to say about Byzantine warfare, but his presentation is neither comprehensive nor even coherent.  Important issues like naval transport and naval warfare (\\"Greek fire\\" saved the empire more than once) are never mentioned.  If logistic and fiscal superiority were the Byzantine \\"center of gravity,\\" why are no facts (or even estimates) about Byzantine military expenses provided?  Instead, the author provides only a few lame and generalized examples of how various provinces were assigned to produce materials for the army, like arrows or packanimals.  Surely the Islamic, Turkish and Bulgar armies could also draw on their various provinces for arrows and mules, so it is hard to see Byzantium's unique advantage in this context.  The author never even bothers to mention how many troops Byzantium maintained in various periods, the approximate revenue of the empire or population.  Since no such data is presented for either Byzantium or its enemies, how does Haldon know that the empire's resources were superior?<br /> Furthermore, the logistic/financial superiority argument is a weak one at best.  If superior resources were Byzantium's key to survival, why did the West Roman Empire - which had even greater resources - fail to survive longer?  Certainly the Islamic forces overrunning most of the Mideast in the 7th Century had resources equal to or greater than a Byzantine Empire that was losing province after province.  Indeed, the author employs double-talk in stating that constrained resources forced a defensive strategy on the empire, but these resources were greater than the combined total of enemies attacking on two or even three fronts.  The facts indicate that the Byzantine Empire never had a significant advantage in population or land area over its principal enemies, which means that the amount of troops, tax money, food and military supplies could not have been superior (indeed, if Byzantine had enjoyed a superiority it would have adopted a more offensive strategy).  Byzantium always existed under threat of extinction and the real answer to its longevity lies in the superior melding of diplomatic, informational (the Byzantines were masters in propaganda, espionage and deceit), military and economic (particularly bribes) tools.  Most of Byzantium's neighbors relied primarily on military muscle and in this narrow venue, they could often best the smaller Byzantine armies.  However, the Byzantines were experts at deflecting and confounding aggressors with non-military means, and it is this cunning ability to exploit all means available that explains the incredible longevity of the Byzantine empire.k animals.  Surely the Islamic, Turkish and Bulgar armies could also draw on their various provinces for arrows and mules, so it is hard to see Byzantium's unique advantage in this context.  The author never even bothers to mention how many troops Byzantium maintained in various periods, the approximate revenue of the empire or population.  Since no such data is presented for either Byzantium or its enemies, how does Haldon know that the empire's resources were superior?  <br /> Furthermore, the logistic/financial superiority argument is a weak one at best.  If superior resources were Byzantium's key to survival, why did the West Roman Empire - which had even greater resources - fail to survive longer?  Certainly the Islamic forces overrunning most of the Mideast in the 7th Century had resources equal to or greater than a Byzantine Empire that was losing province after province.  Indeed, the author employs double-talk in stating that constrained resources forced a defensive strategy on the empire, but these resources were greater than the combined total of enemies attacking on two or even three fronts.  The facts indicate that the Byzantine Empire never had a significant advantage in population or land area over its principal enemies, which means that the amount of troops, tax money, food and military supplies could not have been superior (indeed, if Byzantine had enjoyed a superiority it would have adopted a more offensive strategy).  Byzantium always existed under threat of extinction and the real answer to its longevity lies in the superior melding of diplomatic, informational (the Byzantines were masters in propaganda, espionage and deceit), military and economic (particularly bribes) tools.  Most of Byzantium's neighbors relied primarily on military muscle and in this narrow venue, they could often best the smaller Byzantine armies.  However, the Byzantines were experts at deflecting and confounding aggressors with non-military means, and it is this cunning ability to exploit all means available that explains the incredible longevity of the Byzantine empire.	2003-02-15
1237405:US	52533596	R25EJ1OBWT0VHJ	1841765090	632528060	Rossbach and Leuthen 1757: Prussia's Eagle Resurgent (Campaign)	Books	3	8	11	N	Y	A Cold Disappointment	I was hoping that Simon Millar's latest Osprey Campaign series title, Rossbach & Leuthen 1757, would be as good as his previous title, Kolin 1757.  Alas, it is not.  Whereas Kolin 1757 offered incisive military analysis of why Frederick the Great suffered his first defeat, Rossbach & Leuthen 1757 has much less to offer.  Osprey Campaign titles are intended to be stand-alone volumes, but Millar has short-changed the readers of this volume in regards to background material, analysis and maps.  The author's writing style is also far more plodding and passionless than in his previous volume; for example, Leuthen is presented as a bland recitation of units marching and firing, rather than a desperate winter battle (was there not a single eyewitness account that might have been incorporated?).<br />  Rossbach & Leuthen 1757 begins with a short section on the origins of the campaign, a chronology and a section on opposing commanders.  Unfortunately, there is no section on opposing plans as is normal in the Campaign series and the section on opposing armies is woefully inadequate.  The author states that, \\"I am not going to discuss the uniforms, equipment or typical tactical formations of the combatants at Rossbach and Leuthen\\" since these subjects are detailed in various Osprey Men-at-Arms titles (11 other volumes to be exact).  Instead, the author offers brief blurbs on the Prussian Guard, the Imperial Army, and Frederick's oblique order.  Frankly, this was the first time that I ever felt cheated by an Osprey Campaign series title. The author partly redresses these omissions with two detailed order of battle tables for both battles.  It is also highly questionable whether two battles separated by a month and 150 miles can be efficiently packed into the thin space of an Osprey title.  Indeed, the campaign narrative appears to suffer from trying to cover too much; the author spends only 17 pages on the Rossbach campaign and 47 on Leuthen.  The volume includes three 3-D \\"Birds Eye View\\" maps (one on Rossbach, two on Leuthen) and only four 2-D maps (Invasion of Hanover & Prussia, the road to Rossbach, the campaign in Silesia, the flank march at Leuthen).  At least the three battle scenes included are good: the French and Prussian firing lines at Rossbach, the initial Prussian attack at Leuthen and Driesen's cavalry charge at Leuthen.  The bibliography is also a bit disappointing since 50% of the sources listed are either Christopher Duffy's various titles (which are good but tend to recycle the same information) or Osprey Men-at-Arms titles.<br /> The crux of both these battles comes down to Frederick's favorite tactic, the oblique attack.  Unfortunately, the author fails to mention that this tactic required an excellent tactical picture of the enemy's disposition, convenient screening terrain and a fairly incompetent enemy commander; when Frederick held these advantages, the tactic worked.  The author has little to say about the Battle of Rossbach.  The French and Imperial forces were unprepared for mobile warfare and attempted a lethargic effort to flank Frederick's smaller army, but which blundered directly into the Prussian \\"kill sac.\\"  Millar blames the Austrian defeat at Leuthen primarily on faulty leadership, noting that, \\"once again the direction of the Austrian forces in the field would be decided by dynastic interests and pride, rather than ability.\\"  Certainly one major factor in the Austrian defeat was the premature commitment of virtually their entire reserve force to the wrong flank, in response to Prussian feints.  Commitment of the reserves when the enemy's intentions are not yet clear is certainly an egregious error, but it doesn't suffice as the sole reason for the Austrian defeat.  Other factors include the early defeat of the Austrian cavalry covering force, the low quality of the Imperial German troops that caught the brunt of the initial Prussian attack, the sluggish tactical response of the Austrian commanders andthe collapse of Austrian morale.  However, Napoleon's dictum that in war the morale is to the material as three is to one must surely have derived from his study of both these battles (Napoleon was much enamored of Leuthen), since Frederick was badly out-numbered in both battles but still won handily.  Frederick's tactics were successful in both battles because he was able to disrupt his enemy's deployment (defensively at Rossbach and offensively at Leuthen) and this knocked his foes off-balance, but these same methods were much less effective against foes like the Russians who simply stood their ground even if flanked.  One could say that Frederick's tactics were meant to take advantage of the faint-of-heart.  Nor was Frederick particularly effective at exploiting his victories and pursuing a defeated enemy to destruction, since his style was geared toward highly centralized war making. The author also fails to mention that Rossbach and Leuthen, while victories, did not lead to any long-term advantages for encircled Prussia.manders and the collapse of Austrian morale.  However, Napoleon's dictum that in war the morale is to the material as three is to one must surely have derived from his study of both these battles (Napoleon was much enamored of Leuthen), since Frederick was badly out-numbered in both battles but still won handily.  Frederick's tactics were successful in both battles because he was able to disrupt his enemy's deployment (defensively at Rossbach and offensively at Leuthen) and this knocked his foes off-balance, but these same methods were much less effective against foes like the Russians who simply stood their ground even if flanked.  One could say that Frederick's tactics were meant to take advantage of the faint-of-heart.  Nor was Frederick particularly effective at exploiting his victories and pursuing a defeated enemy to destruction, since his style was geared toward highly centralized war making. The author also fails to mention that Rossbach and Leuthen, while victories, did not lead to any long-term advantages for encircled Prussia.	2003-02-07
1237407:US	52533596	RDO4RLBXJ39O8	1841764892	928366077	Armies in East Africa 1914–18 (Men-at-Arms)	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Good Order of Battle Data	Since the amazing resistance of the German colony in Tanganyika in the First World War is rarely covered in any kind of detail, Osprey's Men-at-Arms volume Armies in East Africa 1914-1918 is a welcome addition to the slim literature on that subject.  While certainly not comprehensive, the author manages to pack a fair amount of data into less than fifty pages and is not distracted from his subject with trivia about collar piping or various types of footwear (a common flaw in the Men-at-Arms series).  Instead, the author delivers a succinct summary of the campaign, with notes on equipment, organization, and uniforms.  The best aspect of the volume is the considerable order of battle data provided on all combatants, included the usually neglected Belgian and Portuguese forces.<br /> Armies in East Africa 1914-1918 is divided into short sections on the pre-war colonial forces in place (Germany, Britain, Belgium and Portugal), a campaign chronology, the campaign of 1914-1915, the 1916 Allied offensive, and then stalemate and pursuit in 1917.  There are eight pages of color plates, covering the uniforms of all the combatant powers.  The author also provides a surprisingly detailed bibliography, which readers may find quite useful.<br /> The detail on Belgian and Portuguese forces provided is particularly welcome, since most sources virtually ignore non-Commonwealth participation in the war in East Africa.  Portugal was unique in sending several large expeditionary forces from Europe to fight in East Africa, instead of relying on colonial troops as everyone else did.  The author also details the rather self-inflated reputation of the South African troops, who initially disparaged the black German Askaris and even their Indian allies.  Perhaps the only area that is slighted is the German ground unit formed from survivors from the cruiser Konigsberg, and the role of the cruiser's salvaged 4.7\\" guns (they are briefly mentioned and depicted in illustrations, but the fact that these naval troops performed poorly in bush warfare - not surprisingly - is not mentioned).  Otherwise, Armies in East Africa 1914-1918 is a fine summary of one of the more unusual campaigns and adaptive commanders of the 20th Century.that these naval troops performed poorly in bush warfare - not surprisingly - is not mentioned).  Otherwise, Armies in East Africa 1914-1918 is a fine summary of one of the more unusual campaigns and adaptive commanders of the 20th Century.	2003-02-07
1237409:US	52533596	R17CS088JTBJM1	0850528143	487477871	Boulogne (Battleground Europe)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	How Not To Commit a Brigade to Combat, Part II	Boulogne is the companion volume to John Cooksey's 1999 volume on Calais and together, they tell the oft-neglected story of Britain's futile attempt to secure the channel ports from the advancing Wehrmacht in May 1940.  In Boulogne, Cooksey covers the brief commitment of the 20th Guards Brigade (consisting of the 2nd Welsh Guards and 2nd Irish Guards infantry battalions) to the Battle for France.  The brigade was landed in Boulogne on the morning of 22 May 1940 and hit by the advance guard of the 2nd Panzer Division eight hours later.  After heavy fighting, the brigade was evacuated by the Royal Navy on the night of 23/24 May.  Like the earlier volume, Boulogne is fine example of how not to commit an infantry brigade into combat, which provides many instructive lessons for military professionals.  Historians will also appreciate this book since the struggle for Boulogne usually only merits a sentence or two in most accounts of the 1940 campaign.  Cooksey has unearthed a wealth of previously unseen photographs and personal accounts of this obscure, but important battle.  Aside from being another ignominious Allied defeat, Boulogne had great political significance, since Churchill's decision to withdraw the embattled 20th Guards Brigade exacerbated Anglo-French relations; from that point on, the French leadership became increasingly convinced that the British were only interested in saving their army from encirclement in France and were no longer fully trustworthy.<br /> Boulogne consists of nine chapters, beginning with background sections on the 1940 campaign, the 20th Guards Brigade and the 2nd Panzer Division.  Although the maps provided by the author adequately depict the dispositions of the 20th Guards Brigade, they do not depict either French or German dispositions.  Furthermore, key terrain features like Fort de la Creche and the Haute Ville cathedral are not depicted on the maps.  The photographs are excellent, and Cooksey provides a number of photos from private British and German collections.  After the battle narrative, the author also provides three guided tours around the Boulogne battlefield.  A brief bibliography is provided, but unfortunately no order of battle.<br /> One of the most striking features about Boulogne is the shocking waste of two fine battalions of infantry.  The two battalions were formed in the summer of 1939 and although they spent the entire Phoney War period on ceremonial duties in England, the troops were considered of high quality.  The battalions began intensive infantry training in May 1940 and were still in the process of receiving all their equipment, such as French-made 25mm anti-tank guns.  When the German Blitzkrieg threatened the Channel ports, the decision was rapidly made to dispatch this brigade to secure Boulogne.  The brigade had less than 24 hours to deploy from home station - apparently the unit did not have a deployment plan in hand - and much vital equipment was left behind.  The brigade deployed to Boulogne with virtually no vehicles, no mortars, no mines or barbed wire, no radios, few maps, only a few entrenching tools and only fifty rounds of ammunition per riflemen.  Essentially, the unit could barely shoot, move and communicate.  After arriving in Boulogne on the morning of 22 May 1940, the brigade was hastily thrown into an incomplete cordon around the edges of the city.  Cooksey makes the point that there was little time or effort spent on coordinating the brigade's defense with local French troops or the numerous British support troops in the port.  The brigade's flimsy defense repelled the initial German probes on 22 May, but was quickly pushed in by determined attacks on 23 May.  When the order came to evacuate the brigade, many troops were left behind due to the lack of radios; of 1,600 troops landed, more than 500 were lost.<br /> Cooksey's account is also interesting for the information he provides from the German perspective.  It is apparent that the fog of war affected the Germans as well, since they were not completely aware of the British evacuation or the true plight of the brigade.  Furthermore, the rapid German advance had strung the German units out badly; the 2nd Panzer lacked much of its infantry at Boulogne and had to conduct an attack into an urban area with a tank-heavy force supported by only a battalion of motorcycle troops and some reconnaissance units.  The Germans were quickly able to smash in the British defense on the outskirts of the town but their attack bogged down in the urban congestion of Boulogne; it took the Germans three days to mop up the last defenders.<br /> The author's description of the heroic evacuation of the brigade by a flotilla of Royal Navy destroyers is quite thrilling.  Braving intense small arms fire and even tank gunfire, these intrepid ships pushed into the narrow harbor and extracted thousands of Allied troops.  One destroyer captain was killed by sniper fire and several destroyers were damaged by air attack and coastal artillery.  Cooksey's description of the final hours of the evacuation is well-written and intense.  At one point, British destroyers were engaging German tanks less than 300 meters from the docks.  It is also apparent that the French units in Boulogne put up an incredible defense of the city - there was no lack of will to fight in those French troops.  Although Cooksey describes the last-ditch French defense after the British withdrawal, it is more difficult to follow these actions due to the lack of maps.<br /> The British lost 30% of the 20th Guards Brigade in Boulogne and failed to hold the port for more than 36 hours.  However, in unilaterally evacuating the brigade without consulting the French - who continued to resist for two more days - Churchill angered his ally.  Consequently, the other Brigade deployed to Calais was not evacuated in order to display \\"allied solidarity\\" and that unit was overwhelmed.<br />Together, Boulogne and Calais demonstrate the high cost of rashly throwing units into poorly-defined situations and then hoping for the best.of war affected the Germans as well, since they were not completely aware of the British evacuation or the true plight of the brigade.  Furthermore, the rapid German advance had strung the German units out badly; the 2nd Panzer lacked much of its infantry at Boulogne and had to conduct an attack into an urban area with a tank-heavy force supported by only a battalion of motorcycle troops and some reconnaissance units.  The Germans were quickly able to smash in the British defense on the outskirts of the town but their attack bogged down in the urban congestion of Boulogne; it took the Germans three days to mop up the last defenders.   <br /> The author's description of the heroic evacuation of the brigade by a flotilla of Royal Navy destroyers is quite thrilling.  Braving intense small arms fire and even tank gunfire, these intrepid ships pushed into the narrow harbor and extracted thousands of Allied troops.  One destroyer captain was killed by sniper fire and several destroyers were damaged by air attack and coastal artillery.  Cooksey's description of the final hours of the evacuation is well-written and intense.   At one point, British destroyers were engaging German tanks less than 300 meters from the docks.  It is also apparent that the French units in Boulogne put up an incredible defense of the city - there was no lack of will to fight in those French troops.  Although Cooksey describes the last-ditch French defense after the British withdrawal, it is more difficult to follow these actions due to the lack of maps.  <br /> The British lost 30% of the 20th Guards Brigade in Boulogne and failed to hold the port for more than 36 hours.  However, in unilaterally evacuating the brigade without consulting the French - who continued to resist for two more days - Churchill angered his ally.  Consequently, the other Brigade deployed to Calais was not evacuated in order to display \\"allied solidarity\\" and that unit was overwhelmed.  <BR>Together, Boulogne and Calais demonstrate the high cost of rashly throwing units into poorly-defined situations and then hoping for the best.	2003-02-07
1241036:US	52533596	R2V1SAMWAP9446	1855326345	907269145	German Jet Aces of World War 2 (Osprey Aircraft of the Aces No 17)	Books	4	21	21	N	N	How not to deploy a New Weapon System	Osprey's Aircraft of the Aces volume 17, German Jet Aces of World War 2, is an interesting account of the difficulties of introducing a revolutionary weapon system in the midst of a major conflict.  This volume provides considerable detail on the German jet units and pilots, as well as the aircraft themselves.  Overall, this volume is an excellent succinct history of the Luftwaffe's jet fighter units in the waning days of the Second World War.<br />  German Jet Aces of World War 2 begins with a short introduction on the early German jet aircraft prototypes in 1939-1942.  The most important issue addressed in this section is the torpid pace of the German jet development effort.  Despite the facts that the Luftwaffe had flown a jet prototype in August 1939 and the first practical jet fighter (the Me-262) by July 1942, the Germans squandered their technological advantage by not beginning to form operational units until 1944.  At that point, Hitler famously interfered with the jet program by demanding that the Me-262 be fielded as a bomber instead of a fighter.  Few sources note that Hitler reversed his mistake six months later and ordered the Me-262 deployed as a fighter.  Normally, Hitler gets the blame for fatally delaying the Me-262 program, but it seems questionable to assert that Hitler's 6 month delay was more egregious than the nearly 2 year delay imposed by the Luftwaffe hierarchy.  Indeed, it is possible that without Hitler's backing none of the jets would have entered service before the end of the war.<br />  The second chapter covers the earliest Me-262 units, such as \\"Kommando Nowotny\\" and Ekdo 262.  These units were small in size and primarily established as operational test and training units, rather than as combat units.  The third chapter deals with JG-7, the largest and most important user of the Me-262 in 1944-1945.  The formation of JG7 was plagued by problems and although the unit conducted a few combat sorties in late 1944, it was not capable of large-scale operations until the spring of 1945.  In March and April 1945 JG7 was able to employ 20-30 jets at a time instead of the previous scrambles of only 2-4 jets.  The authors note that the combination of the fast Me-262 fighter and the new R4M air-to-air rockets posed a serious threat to Allied air formations over Germany.  In all, JG7 claimed 500 Allied aircraft in the last two months of the war.  However, the German jet units were rapidly whittled down by the relentless attrition of combat and non-combat losses.  The American P-51 fighter pilots quickly realized that the jets were vulnerable in their long, slow landing runs and began to ambush them their airfields (15 Me-262s were lost in one such attack).  Non-combat losses due to the finicky jet engines were high and the aircraft proved to have a steep learning curve even for experienced pilots.<br />  The fourth chapter deals with several \\"oddball\\" jet units like Lieutenant General Galland's pick-up team JV44 and a small night jet fighter unit.  Galland had been demoted from chief of the Luftwaffe fighter arm after criticizing Reichsmarchall Goering, and his punishment was to form a small squadron size jet unit.  In JV44, Galland scored six \\"kills\\" in his jet before being wounded.  The final chapter covers the other jet types (Me-163, He-162 and Arado 234), none of which were very successful or produced any aces.  The authors include appendices listing all Luftwaffe jet aces, a table of victories claimed by each unit and the order of battle for jet units in May 1945.  There are also 33 color plates of jets, all but 6 of which are various Me-262s.  Unfortunately, the authors failed to provide either a bibliography or a list of the German sources used.<br />  In sum, the Me-262 jet fighter accounted for about 735 Allied aircraft in the final months of the war.  Yet was the Me-262 a potentially war-winning weapon if it had only been deployed sooner?  \\"If only Hitler hadn't interfered,\\" is the argument advanced by modern-day revisionists who assert that the Me-262 might have changed the tide of the air war.  Actually, this account makes such claims appear doubtful.  While the Me-262 was indeed a revolutionary aircraft with amazing potential, the Luftwaffe made serious mistakes in the training of new jet pilots (only a handful of two-seat trainer versions were built) and the jet engines suffered from severe teething problems.  One of the Luftwaffe's top aces, Major Walter Nowotny with 258 kills, was killed by engine malfunction on his first combat sortie.  While the Germans might have managed the program better and put more jet fighters into service sooner than occurred, the numerous hurdles would have made any effort problematic.the argument advanced by modern-day revisionists who assert that the Me-262 might have changed the tide of the air war.  Actually, this account makes such claims appear doubtful.  While the Me-262 was indeed a revolutionary aircraft with amazing potential, the Luftwaffe made serious mistakes in the training of new jet pilots (only a handful of two-seat trainer versions were built) and the jet engines suffered from severe teething problems.  One of the Luftwaffe's top aces, Major Walter Nowotny with 258 kills, was killed by engine malfunction on his first combat sortie.  While the Germans might have managed the program better and put more jet fighters into service sooner than occurred, the numerous hurdles would have made any effort problematic.	2003-02-04
1250739:US	52533596	R20MR3WGLAGAIM	1841762695	734092844	The Hundred Years' War	Books	5	50	53	N	N	A Tour de Force	If you think of the Hundred Years War, epic English victories like Crecy, Poitiers and Agincourt would probably come to mind.  However despite these impressive military triumphs, the fact is that the French ultimately won the series of wars that stretched out over a 116-year period.  Anne Curry, an English expert on the Hundred Years War, brings her considerable knowledge of the subject to bear in Osprey's Essential Histories volume #19.  Quite simply, this volume is a tour de force in that the author presents a complex subject with insight and depth.  Unlike some of the other volumes in this series, The Hundred Years War 1337-1453 represents a real research effort and not just a condensation of other sources.  This is one of the best volumes that Osprey published in 2002.<br />  As usual, The Hundred Years' War 1337-1453 begins in standard Osprey format with a short introduction, a chronology, a background to the war and the opposing sides and how the war began.  The narrative of the war itself is 38 pages in length.  Final sections are portrait of a soldier (one French and two English), the cruel nature of the war (attacks on civilians, raids on England), portrait of a civilian (the remarkable female poet and historian Christine de Pizan), how the war ended and conclusions.  The author has provided a substantial bibliography as well as genealogical tables for both the French and English nobility.  There are a total of ten maps (English lands in Gascony, campaigns in Northern France in 1340, campaigns in the north in 1341-1359, the campaign of 1346, the campaigns of the Black Prince, the second phase of the war, the Agincourt campaign, campaigns of 1415-1428, English garrisons in Normandy, and the defeat of the English) in this volume and they add great value.<br />  The Hundred Years War was unusual for its protracted nature, although this was frequently interrupted by truces.  The English, who began the war with modest objectives and expanded them when fortune favored their cause, crushed one French army after another in the early phases of the war.  Much of French fell under English control by 1415 and it appeared that the French monarchy was in eclipse.  Anne Curry does a wonderful job detailing how the French gradually turned the war around, beginning with the incredible campaigns of Joan of Arc.  The French were not the complete blockheads that recurrent defeats would suggest, but were capable of learning from past mistakes.  During the 1430s, the French monarchy oversaw the creation of the first standing army in Europe since the Romans.  The French were also quick to adopt and efficiently organize artillery, which was used to help smash English armies at Formigny and Castillon (battles that are all but forgotten but which helped to decide the war).  The author also does a splendid job detailing the war finances and economies of both sides.  French revenue grew ten-fold during the course of the war as the French monarchy organized a robust tax system.  However, the English fought the war on an economic shoestring and their revenues declined as the war dragged on.  Indeed, the English often conquered land that was devastated and incapable of producing revenue for some time. In the end, the English lacked the money to sustain large armies in France and they were eventually overwhelmed.  The author rightly calls this war a defining moment in European history, where large standing armies become possible and royal authority was forced to construct more complex fiscal structures than had existed under parochial feudalism.vored their cause, crushed one French army after another in the early phases of the war.  Much of French fell under English control by 1415 and it appeared that the French monarchy was in eclipse.  Anne Curry does a wonderful job detailing how the French gradually turned the war around, beginning with the incredible campaigns of Joan of Arc.  The French were not the complete blockheads that recurrent defeats would suggest, but were capable of learning from past mistakes.  During the 1430s, the French monarchy oversaw the creation of the first standing army in Europe since the Romans.  The French were also quick to adopt and efficiently organize artillery, which was used to help smash English armies at Formigny and Castillon (battles that are all but forgotten but which helped to decide the war).  The author also does a splendid job detailing the war finances and economies of both sides.  French revenue grew ten-fold during the course of the war as the French monarchy organized a robust tax system.  However, the English fought the war on an economic shoestring and their revenues declined as the war dragged on.  Indeed, the English often conquered land that was devastated and incapable of producing revenue for some time. In the end, the English lacked the money to sustain large armies in France and they were eventually overwhelmed.  The author rightly calls this war a defining moment in European history, where large standing armies become possible and royal authority was forced to construct more complex fiscal structures than had existed under parochial feudalism.	2003-01-27
1252009:US	52533596	R2L93I1N7HLPQB	1841763578	562273924	The Peloponnesian War 431-404 BC	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Decent But Not Great	Dr. Philip de Souza, a lecturer on Greek and Roman classics at University College in Dublin, has summarized the Peloponnesian War in Osprey's Essential Histories volume #27.  The Peloponnesian War remains an enduring favorite primarily due to the landmark effort by the first great historian, Thucydides, who wrote a detailed account of the conflict.  Given this advantage, Dr. de Souza is able to construct a solid and uncontroversial summary of the war.  This summary will be useful to modern students who lack the time or will to plow through the original Thucydides.  However, this volume is less than fully satisfying for several reasons.  Anyone who has read Thucydides a few times will not get much new out of this volume.  Further, the author has chosen to devote less than one-third of the volume to the war itself, which reduces the value for anyone attempting to study the actual military operations.  Better maps, a glossary and information on oft-neglected topics like the war economies of Athens and Sparta would have made this a much better volume.<br />  The Peloponnesian War 431-404 BC begins with a short introduction, a chronology, a section on the background to the war (the rise of Athens and the First Peloponnesian War), a section on the warring sides, and how the war began.  The actual narrative of the war is 29 pages long.  Final sections include portrait of a soldier (an Athenian ship captain), politics and culture (democracy and oligarchy in Greece, the role of Persia, and the importance of Athenian art and culture), portrait of a civilian (the Athenian wife of Alcibiades), how the war ended, and conclusions.  There are a total of seven maps supporting the text: Athens, a strategic map of Greece, the Battle of Mantinea, Sicily, the Siege of Syracuse, the Battle of Arginousai and the eastern Aegean.  Unfortunately, the maps are one of the most disappointing aspects of this volume.  The strategic map of Greece is less detailed than the sketch map provided in Penguin translations of Thucydides.  The map depicting the Siege of Syracuse is particularly poor since it shows neither dispositions nor key events.  A map depicting the key action at Phylos-Sphacteria should have been included.<br />  One of the few areas that the author emphasizes that is not apparent in reading the original Thucydides is the tremendous manpower constraints of Sparta.  According to Dr. de Souza, Sparta only had about 5-10,000 full citizens capable of bearing arms.  Given this limited manpower pool and the constant threat of slave rebellions in Sparta, the Spartans were extremely reluctant to commit large numbers of troops far from home.  Instead, the Spartans tended to fight the war as much as possible using allies and mercenaries, often lead by a few capable Spartan officers.  When the Spartans were able to capture about 200 Spartans during the Pylos-Spachteria affair, this tiny loss of personnel brought mighty Sparta to the negotiating table.  While Athens started the war with about 40,000 able-bodied male citizens, it is estimated that about one-third died or were incapacitated due to the plague that struck the city in the second year of the war.  Thus, both sides fought the war under manpower constraints that tended to get worse over time.<br />  Dr. de Souza also makes an interesting point about the flimsiness of Sparta's motives in the war and its involvement with the former common enemy, Persia.  The author notes that, \\"in spite of their repeated claims to be fighting in order to liberate the Greeks, the Spartans negotiated a series of treaties with the representatives of King Dareios [of Persia] in which they agreed that those territories in Asia Minor which had formerly been under Persian domination should revert to his control.  This included many Greek cities that had joined the Delian League under Athenian leadership in 478 and were now looking to Sparta to free them from Athenian domination.\\"  Instead, Sparta was ready to hand over its newfound allies to Persian tyranny in return for financial aid.  After the war ended in the defeat of Athens, it was the Persian Empire that enforced the peace, \\"thus the freedom of the Greeks, that had been the rallying cry at the start of the Peloponnesian War, was guaranteed not by the Spartans, but by the Persian King.\\"y to hand over its newfound allies to Persian tyranny in return for financial aid.  After the war ended in the defeat of Athens, it was the Persian Empire that enforced the peace, \\"thus the freedom of the Greeks, that had been the rallying cry at the start of the Peloponnesian War, was guaranteed not by the Spartans, but by the Persian King.\\"	2003-01-26
1252796:US	52533596	R2BAH4BAXMVK7Q	1841763926	113781468	Caesar's Civil War	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Caesar versus Pompey	Osprey's Essential History #42, Caesar's Civil War 49-44 BC, is a fine summary of the climactic struggle that began to mark Rome's slide from Republic to monarchy.  Adrian Goldsworthy, an English scholar of the Roman military, uses Caesar's own commentaries and Appian's later history as the basis for this account.  In fact, this volume is probably Goldsworthy's best effort to date.  Overall, this is easily the best summary of Caesar's struggle for supreme power available.<br />  Caesar's Civil War 49-44 BC begins with a short introduction on the Roman Republic, a chronology, a section on the background to the war (the First Triumvirate) and a 6-page section on the opposing sides.  The main narrative is 37 pages and covers operations between Caesar's crossing of the Rubicon River and the Battle of Munda.  Final sections include portrait of a soldier (Caesar's centurions), the development of the dictatorship, portrait of a civilian (Cicero), Caesar's assassination, and the end of the Republic (which covers the final struggle between Antony and Octavian).  One interesting addition is a 2-page glossary that provides thumbnail biographies of all the key characters.  There are a total of seven maps in this volume: the Roman world in 50 BC, Caesar's advance through Italy, the Ilerda campaign, the Battles of Dyrrachium, Pharsalus, Thapsus and Munda.  Given the extent of operations during the civil wars, the maps are not quite sufficient to follow operations in a number of areas, including Spain, Syria, Greece and Africa.<br />  Military readers will be interested by Goldsworthy's discussion of the changing role of the Roman military and its relationship to the outbreak of civil war.  By the 1st Century BC, the Roman Army had been transformed from the part-time citizen militia into a standing force.  However, Goldsworthy writes that, \\"the senate refused to acknowledge this change, maintaining that military service was a duty requiring no formal reward, and made no provision to provide for discharged soldiers.\\" Instead, \\"soldiers started to become more loyal to generals who offered such rewards than to the republic which neglected them.  The rise of the professional army was probably the most important of the problems besetting the Republic with which the Senate failed to deal...\\"  After the civil war ended, the victorious Augustus acted to remedy these defects by standardizing military pay and terms of service, as well as providing a guaranteed pension for discharged veterans.  Goldsworthy concludes that, \\"Augustus took care that the legionaries' loyalty was focused on him and no one else.  The men were paid by the emperor, swore an oath of loyalty to him and ...received medals from him.\\"<br />  It is clear that the author is sympathetic to Caesar's motives in precipitating a five year long civil war.  Certainly Caesar had ample reason to fear that his political rivals would engineer his demise once he laid down the governorship and returned to private life.  Pompey, as usual, is presented as a lucky opportunist who lacked the skill or charisma of Caesar (remember, the winners write the history, not the losers).  Caesar's frequent clemency of captured prisoners is contrasted against Pompey's execution of captured prisoners.  Indeed, some of Caesar's best troops in the later half of the civil war were former pro-Pompey legionaries who had been recruited after being captured.  Goldsworthy also does a fine job contrasting the differing command styles of Caesar and Pompey.  When the veteran 10th Legion mutinied in 47 BC, Caesar not only calmed the troops but, \\"soon the legionaries...were begging him to decimate them and take them back into his service.\\"  Pompey on the other hand, was the first to flee the battlefield at Pharsalus and was unable to instill his troops with sufficient will to fight.  On the operational level, Goldsworthy praises Pompey as \\"a great organizer, [who] had taken care to gather plenty of food and fodder to supply his troops.\\"  Caesar on the other hand, put little effort into logistics and his operations were usually conducted on a shoestring.  Pompey was great at raising large armies, but Caesar was great at leading them into battle (often out-numbered).  Goldsworthy also notes that while Caesar's actions often seem rash to modern observers, that boldness was considered an essential characteristic for a Roman general.  Overall, Caesar's Civil War 49-44 BC is one of the very best of this series and a real gem in itself.r to supply his troops.\\"  Caesar on the other hand, put little effort into logistics and his operations were usually conducted on a shoestring.  Pompey was great at raising large armies, but Caesar was great at leading them into battle (often out-numbered).  Goldsworthy also notes that while Caesar's actions often seem rash to modern observers, that boldness was considered an essential characteristic for a Roman general.  Overall, Caesar's Civil War 49-44 BC is one of the very best of this series and a real gem in itself.	2003-01-26
1262184:US	52533596	R3GWOFK2B37PLT	0850528615	546510829	The Island: Nijmegen to Arnhem (Battleground Europe - Operation Market Garden)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Fills in Many Gaps in Market-Garden Story	Even readers familiar with the tragic events of Operation Market-Garden in September 1944 can learn quite a bit from this thin Battleground Europe volume entitled The Island.  Betwe Island was located between the Rhine and Waal Rivers in Holland and had the final stretch of highway that led from Nijmegen to Arnhem.  The island was the scene of intense fighting in the final stages of Market-Garden as the British XXX Corps frantically tried to batter its way through the German units that were threatening to overwhelm the British 1st Airborne Division located on the north bank of the Rhine.  Tim Saunders, a veteran Battleground Europe author, brings his usual flair for battle narrative and military analysis to this account.  The strength of this volume lies in its coverage of many important but oft-neglected facets of actions that contributed to the Allied failure in Market-Garden.  Since Saunders covers events on the island between 21 September and 7 October 1944, it also demonstrates that the fighting in this area did not cease with the evacuation of the British 1st Airborne.<br />  The Island consists of ten narrative chapters, beginning with a short background to the Operation Market-Garden plan.  Chapter two covers the failed effort by the Irish Guards to reach Arnhem on 21 September.  Chapter three covers the Polish parachute drop near Driel and XXX Corps fire support to the 1st Airborne on 21 September.  Chapter four covers the 43rd Wessex Division attack on Oosterhout and the \\"dash to Driel\\" on 22 September.  Chapter five covers the various efforts on 23-24 September to reinforce 1st Airborne across the Rhine, including the disastrous crossing of the 4th Dorsets.  The evacuation of the 1st Airborne is covered in the sixth chapter.  Chapter seven covers the \\"high water mark\\" of XXX Corps, with the final attacks on Elst on 23-24 September.  Chapter eight covers the German bridgehead on the island at Randwijk and subsequent British counterattacks during 27 September - 10 October.  Chapter nine covers the Battle of Aam-Bemmel, the final British 50th Division attacks on 4-5 October.  The final chapter covers the activities of the US 101st Airborne Division on the island during the period 4-7 October, including the Battle of Opheusden.  A short section on touring the battlefield follows the campaign narrative.  Saunders provides an order of battle for the British XXX Corps and the US 101st Airborne, but not for the Germans.<br />  Saunders does a great job showing how the British were unable to exploit the spectacular American capture of the Nijmegen Bridge on 21 September and sprint the final distance to Arnhem.  The British spearhead - the Guards Armored Division - had become a very blunt instrument by this phase of the operation due to logistic problems and the diversion of forces to deal with German counterattacks on the exposed flanks of the salient.  In modern terms, XXX Corps culminated at Nijmegen and had insufficient combat power remaining to accomplish its mission.  Nor was the Allied failure only the fault of the ground forces; it was the collapse of Allied air support and artillery support at the critical point that doomed the breakthrough to Arnhem.  Indeed, Allied air superiority had so deteriorated that the Germans were able to ferry 20 tanks on to the island and Saunders notes that, \\"it is a measure of the loss of air superiority, which the Allies had enjoyed since D-Day, that the Germans were able to move in daylight without being attacked by fighter-bombers.\\"  However, the Allies did get one lucky break in an operation otherwise plagued by chronic misfortune: the 1st Airborne fire support officers were able to contact and direct XXX Corps artillery despite the lack of proper code books.  It was this artillery support that helped to discourage German attacks on the encircled 1st Airborne and probably prevented a massacre of that unit.<br />  After a deliberate attack on a German blocking position at Oosterhout,the British were finally able to slip some units around the German flank and reach the south bank of the Rhine opposite the 1st Airborne.  One interesting action rarely covered in other books is the German armored counterattack against the 5th Duke of Cornwall's Light Infantry on the evening of 22 September.  Five German Tiger tanks were knocked out by a combination of mines and light anti-tank weapons and Saunders notes that, \\"this incident reveals how a few determined infantry can destroy what would be during full daylight, an overwhelmingly powerful force.\\"  However, by the time that XXX Corps reached the Rhine, the position of the 1st Airborne was so precarious that evacuation was the only viable course of action.<br />  Most accounts of Market-Garden stop once the British 1st Airborne is evacuated, but the fact that Saunder's account continues for two more weeks adds great value to this volume.  Yet the fighting was not over and Saunders shows that both sides committed new resources to attempt to gain full control over the island.  Indeed, flushed with victory at Arnhem, the Germans hoped to launch a major counterattack that would push the Allies all the way back across the Waal River.  American readers should also note that the chapter on US 101st Airborne operations on the island highlights the lack of research in Stephen Ambrose's Band of Brothers.  In BoB, Ambrose claims that the efforts of E Company, 506th PIR were decisive in stopping the German counterattack on 5 October, but this version is an insult to the men of the 1st and 3rd Battalions of the 506th PIR who did the bulk of the fighting (with British tank support).  Overall, The Island does an admirable job filling in many of the important details usually omitted from standard Market-Garden accounts.  The author's skillful narrative, combined with excellent maps, makes this volume a first-rate piece of military history writing.on at Oosterhout, the British were finally able to slip some units around the German flank and reach the south bank of the Rhine opposite the 1st Airborne.  One interesting action rarely covered in other books is the German armored counterattack against the 5th Duke of Cornwall's Light Infantry on the evening of 22 September.  Five German Tiger tanks were knocked out by a combination of mines and light anti-tank weapons and Saunders notes that, \\"this incident reveals how a few determined infantry can destroy what would be during full daylight, an overwhelmingly powerful force.\\"  However, by the time that XXX Corps reached the Rhine, the position of the 1st Airborne was so precarious that evacuation was the only viable course of action.  <br />     Most accounts of Market-Garden stop once the British 1st Airborne is evacuated, but the fact that Saunder's account continues for two more weeks adds great value to this volume.  Yet the fighting was not over and Saunders shows that both sides committed new resources to attempt to gain full control over the island.  Indeed, flushed with victory at Arnhem, the Germans hoped to launch a major counterattack that would push the Allies all the way back across the Waal River.  American readers should also note that the chapter on US 101st Airborne operations on the island highlights the lack of research in Stephen Ambrose's Band of Brothers.  In BoB, Ambrose claims that the efforts of E Company, 506th PIR were decisive in stopping the German counterattack on 5 October, but this version is an insult to the men of the 1st and 3rd Battalions of the 506th PIR who did the bulk of the fighting (with British tank support).  Overall, The Island does an admirable job filling in many of the important details usually omitted from standard Market-Garden accounts.  The author's skillful narrative, combined with excellent maps, makes this volume a first-rate piece of military history writing.	2003-01-18
1262506:US	52533596	R198P7ANDF94BV	1841763055	306598015	Caesar's Gallic Wars	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Excellent Concise Account	Osprey's Essential History Volume 43, Caesar's Gallic Wars 58-50 BC, covers the series of wars in wars in Western Europe that made Julius Caesar a household name in ancient Rome.  Kate Gilliver, a British academic who took in PhD in Roman military theory, uses Caesar's own commentaries as the basis for her synopsis, but tempers that biased account with input from other sources to provide greater balance.  Indeed, military readers will be pleased with the sound use of military analysis in order to add value to this account; unlike many other historians who attempt to detail ancient campaigns, Gilliver remains focused on the primary elements of the conflict and does not become distracted with archaeological minutiae.  The campaign maps provided in this volume also add greatly to the narrative, since most translations of Caesar's commentaries lack effective maps to demonstrate Roman operations.  Overall, Gilliver's account should be pleasing to academics and military professionals, for shedding greater insight into how, why and what Caesar accomplished in Gaul.<br />  Caesar's Gallic Wars begins with a short introduction, a chronology, and a section on the background to the war.  The section on the warring sides is 12 pages long and notes that, \\"the Gallic warriors fought as individuals, \\" but \\"the might of the Roman army lay in the strength of its formations, and that was based on unit morale, discipline and training.\\"  The heart of Gilliver's narrative - the sections on the outbreak of the war and the main campaigns of 58-50 BC, spans some 35 pages.  The narrative is greatly aided by seven maps: the campaigns of 58 and 57 BC, the battle against the Helvetii in 58 BC, the battle against the Nervii in 57 BC, the campaigns of 56 and 55 BC, the campaigns of 54 and 53 BC, the campaigns of 52 and 51 BC, and the siege of Alesia.  The final sections include portrait of a soldier (Caesar's centurions), the impact of the conflict (loss of life, slavery, destruction, food supplies, religious and social changes), portrait of a civilian (Roman merchants), how the war ended (Roman triumphs), and conclusions.  The section of further reading is overly-brief, and considering the author's academic background, should have included pertinent journal articles from relevant historical and archaeological texts.<br />  Gilliver makes a number of interesting and often understated points about the military aspects of the Gallic Wars. First, the Romans had a technological edge in field artillery and siege warfare techniques that hurt the morale of Gallic opponents.  In particular, the scorpion was a very effective anti-personnel weapon for which the Gauls had no equivalent.  The Gaullic oppidum, or hill forts, had seemed resilient to attack in tribal warfare but they were easily reduced by efficient Roman siege methods.  Second, the Gauls were accustomed to tribal warfare where rival armies disbanded during the winter months, but the professional Roman armies were capable of staying together year after year.  Rome's ability to conduct a sustained military presence in conquered Gaullic territory undermined the Gaul's hopes that they could ride out an invasion.  Third, the Roman army was virtually unbeatable in conventional battles and the only effective means of resistance was guerrilla warfare.  Gilliver notes that other than the heavy losses inflicted on Sabinus' legions during the revolt of 53 BC and the repulse at Gergovia in 52 BC, the Roman army generally dominated combat operations throughout the wars.  Although Caesar's campaigns may not seem like Blitzkrieg-style operations to the modern mind, Gilliver notes, \\"for the Gauls, the intensity of Roman campaigning and particularly the speed with which their lands were reduced to provincial status must have been a terrible shock.\\"  A fourth military point that Gilliver makes concerns the inability of the Gauls to form a common defense against the Romans; indeed, Caesar was particularly adept at playingupon tribal rivalries to divide and conquer his foes.<br />  Gilliver also makes the interesting conclusion that Caesar used the wars in Gaul to build himself a fortune (from the sale of slaves) and a military reputation, both of which were necessary to further his political ambitions.  Caesar's campaigns succeeded in neutralizing all effective resistance to Roman occupation, but it took several more generations to pacify the entire countryside.  Operationally, Caesar was also quite brutal - even by Roman standards - and he strove to inflict (or claim) maximum losses upon the enemy.  Gilliver notes that a Roman general had to kill at least 5,000 enemies in order to gain a triumph in the capital.  Furthermore, Caesar used cruelty to weaken the will to resistance in his foes.  In 52 BC, Caesar's troops stormed the oppidum of Avaricum and massacred all 40,000 inhabitants.  In 51 BC, Caesar eliminated one of the final Gaullic holdouts at Uxellodunum but, \\"instead of massacring the defenders, Caesar cut off their hands and set them free, to serve as an example of the punishment meted out to those who resisted Rome.\\"  Caesar was also capable of military \\"stunts\\" like bridging the Rhine River and brief expeditions to Britain, both of which captured the Roman imagination but provided no tangible strategic benefits.  Gilliver's account of the Gallic Wars is excellent in every regard and is a model synthesis, particularly given the restraints of limited ancient sources.pt at playing upon tribal rivalries to divide and conquer his foes.  <br />    Gilliver also makes the interesting conclusion that Caesar used the wars in Gaul to build himself a fortune (from the sale of slaves) and a military reputation, both of which were necessary to further his political ambitions.  Caesar's campaigns succeeded in neutralizing all effective resistance to Roman occupation, but it took several more generations to pacify the entire countryside.  Operationally, Caesar was also quite brutal - even by Roman standards - and he strove to inflict (or claim) maximum losses upon the enemy.  Gilliver notes that a Roman general had to kill at least 5,000 enemies in order to gain a triumph in the capital.  Furthermore, Caesar used cruelty to weaken the will to resistance in his foes.  In 52 BC, Caesar's troops stormed the oppidum of Avaricum and massacred all 40,000 inhabitants.  In 51 BC, Caesar eliminated one of the final Gaullic holdouts at Uxellodunum but, \\"instead of massacring the defenders, Caesar cut off their hands and set them free, to serve as an example of the punishment meted out to those who resisted Rome.\\"  Caesar was also capable of military \\"stunts\\" like bridging the Rhine River and brief expeditions to Britain, both of which captured the Roman imagination but provided no tangible strategic benefits.  Gilliver's account of the Gallic Wars is excellent in every regard and is a model synthesis, particularly given the restraints of limited ancient sources.	2003-01-18
1273897:US	52533596	R2OYYWBFVKPJ45	1841760005	518405772	Marathon 490 BC: The first Persian invasion of Greece (Campaign)	Books	2	20	24	N	Y	Archaeology, not Military History	Trying to write coherent military history about a battle that occurred almost 2,500 years ago is a daunting and problematic task.  Written sources are few and often unreliable or fragmentary.  Terrain can change so drastically over such a long period that simple things like determining the exact location of key events can be impossible.  Artifacts such as weapons, equipment and human remains have usually deteriorated so much over the centuries that their use as interpretative tools is difficult and controversial.  No one can argue that the Battle of Marathon in 490 BC - where Greeks defeated the first Persian invasion of their land - was a historically important action.  Had the Greeks lost then or ten years later against the second invasion, there would have been serious historical repercussions on the development of later European culture and society.  However, the task of writing a coherent Osprey campaign title on that subject is another matter.  In Osprey's Campaign series volume 108, Marathon 490 BC, Polish archaeologist Nicholas Sekunda has decided to attempt this difficult task.  Unfortunately, Sekunda's effort falls flat for a number of reasons - primarily because the volume is too oriented toward archaeological issues rather than military history.  However another telling weakness is the slippery slope of interpretation built by every author who ever attempted to study Marathon; as Sekunda writes just before he begins his narrative of the battle, &quot;the reader should be warned that virtually every account of the battle written reconstructs it [the battle] differently.&quot;  If it is true as Sekunda suggests, that different authors could write different narratives of this battle due to the controversial and fragmentary nature of the evidence, then why should anyone read this account?<br />  Marathon 490 BC begins with short sections on the origins of the campaign, opposing commanders, opposing armies and opposing plans.  The campaign narrative is 55 pages in length, but the battle itself is covered in less than 6 pages.  The volume concludes with a short aftermath, notes on visiting the battlefield today, a campaign chronology and a bibliography.  Marathon 490 BC includes three 3-D &quot;Birds Eye View&quot; maps (the Battle of Marathon in three phases - deployment, Greek charge and Persian rout), and five 2-D maps (the Aegean in 499-492 BC, the campaign in the Cyclades, the campaign of Marathon, the plain of Marathon in 490 BC, and Marathon today).  Three battle scenes by Richard Hook are also in the volume:  Philippides before the Spartan ephors, the Athenian charge and the Athenian reach the Herakleion after the forced march back to Athens.<br />  Reading Marathon 490 BC, several facts soon become apparent.  First, that Sekunda is very well-versed in archaeology, very familiar with classical Greece and very familiar with the Marathon topography.  Second, Professor Sekunda's methodology is erudite, but uninformative. He spends far too much time using the limited space of an Osprey volume to contest or illuminate various archaeological issues about the battle - issues that properly belong in an archaeological journal article, not a campaign summary.  At the very least, Sekunda could have include some of his major points in an appendix, rather than choking the campaign narrative with tedious explanations of various diggings. Third, Professor Sekunda does not know how to write military history or to analyze facts of a military nature.  For example, Sekunda advances the poorly-supported theory that the reason that the Persians divided their forces at Marathon was that they could not employ their cavalry advantage due to the possible Greek use of abatis obstacles.  This is patently silly for several reasons that Sekunda obviously failed to grasp.  The Persians were on the battlefield for almost five full days before the Greek army arrived, so the Persians could have employed their cavalry before the abatis were in place.  Furthermore, where would the Greeks get the materials for abatis - Sekunda notes that the battlefield was mostly beach and marshland, with few trees.  On the other hand, Sekunda also fails to ask the blindingly obvious question of why didn't the Persians employ obstacles to their front on the beach.  Persian control of the sea meant that they had the time and the means to bring in material from elsewhere and construct earthworks, which would have hindered an assault by hoplites.  On the main issue - why did both Persian flanks collapse under the Athenian charge - Sekunda offers not a wit of insight.  Sekunda ends up telling the reader what he already knows - that the Greeks won - but he cannot explain why this occurred.<br />  The only really strong point of this book is the order of battle data, which does a good job pointing out the relative strength, composition and disposition of each army.  The three battle maps are decent, but given the very small area of the fighting and conflicting evidence, they really can't show much but general movements.  In the end, Marathon is just one more of those historical events of which many of the pertinent facts have now been lost to posterity.ere in place.  Furthermore, where would the Greeks get the materials for abatis - Sekunda notes that the battlefield was mostly beach and marshland, with few trees.  On the other hand, Sekunda also fails to ask the blindingly obvious question of why didn't the Persians employ obstacles to their front on the beach.  Persian control of the sea meant that they had the time and the means to bring in material from elsewhere and construct earthworks, which would have hindered an assault by hoplites.  On the main issue - why did both Persian flanks collapse under the Athenian charge - Sekunda offers not a wit of insight.  Sekunda ends up telling the reader what he already knows - that the Greeks won - but he cannot explain why this occurred.  <br />      The only really strong point of this book is the order of battle data, which does a good job pointing out the relative strength, composition and disposition of each army.  The three battle maps are decent, but given the very small area of the fighting and conflicting evidence, they really can't show much but general movements.  In the end, Marathon is just one more of those historical events of which many of the pertinent facts have now been lost to posterity.	2003-01-09
1283393:US	52533596	RVIAN7QWX8VCV	1841765120	243383275	Peleliu 1944: The Forgotten Corner of Hell (Campaign)	Books	4	28	30	N	Y	Another Fine Addition to the Campaign Series	Peleliu 1944, Osprey Campaign volume number 110, covers one of the more obscure but controversial battles of the Pacific War.  Jim Moran and Gordon L. Rottman, two authors well versed in US Marine Corps history, have done a fine job synthesizing the available secondary sources on the battle into a succinct campaign narrative.  A detailed, blow-by-blow campaign narrative, combined with excellent maps and photographs, makes Peleliu 1944 a fine addition to the Osprey Campaign series.  The authors succeed in laying out the two most enduring questions about the battle: was the invasion of Peleliu necessary and why was it so costly?<br /> In standard Osprey Campaign series format, Peleliu 1944 begins with short sections on the origins of the campaign, a chronology, and sections on opposing plans, commanders and forces.  The campaign narrative itself is 48 pages long, followed by a brief aftermath section, comments on the battlefield today and a bibliography.  There are a total of three \\"Birds-Eye View\\" 3-D maps (D-Day on Peleliu, Securing the North of Peleliu and the Reduction of the Umurbrogol Pocket), six 2-D maps (Strategic situation, the Palau Islands, Peleliu Island, D-Day to D+8, Capture of Angaur Island and the Umurbrogol Mountains), and three battle scenes (Beach Orange on D-Day, the Japanese tank counterattack and Reducing the Umurbrogol Pocket).  The authors also provide very detailed orders of battle for the 1st Marine Division, the US Army 81st Infantry Division and the Japanese forces on Peleliu.<br /> The controversy about Peleliu began even before the invasion.  Admiral Halsey wanted to neutralize the island by bombardment and then bypass it, as so many other islands had been bypassed.  However, Admiral Nimitz disregarded this suggestion and ordered the invasion to proceed in order to remove a potential threat to General Macarthur's imminent invasion of the Philippines.  The authors clearly point out that most of the Japanese aircraft and naval vessels in the Palau Island group had been destroyed by US air raids well before the invasion.  Thus, the threat to Macarthur was minimal.  Securing Peleliu provided the US Navy with a convenient but not critical base (although it did help to rescue the survivors of the sunken USS Indianapolis in 1945).  Thus the question really devolves to whether or not the invasion was worth the cost, since it was clearly not critical to winning the war in the Pacific.<br /> On the conduct of the battle itself, Moran and Rottman clearly place the blame for the heavy US casualties on two causes: inadequate intelligence preparation of the battlefield (IPB) and incompetent senior leadership.  In modern parlance, IPB focuses on gaining information about the terrain, weather and enemy that will enable the friendly commander to make the best possible decisions.  However, the US Marines landing on Peleliu were continuously presented with unpleasant surprises about the terrain, weather and enemy.  Instead of the \\"mostly low and flat terrain\\" briefed prior to D-Day, the invaders were confronted with undetected anti-tank ditches, coral outcrops and the very nasty Umurbrogol Mountains.  How did aerial reconnaissance miss mountains this size? The Marines had only expected a short three-day fight for Peleliu and had not really considered the weather.  However, temperatures around 100? F fatigued the Marines and the monsoon rains disrupted the build-up.  Finally, the Japanese altered their tactics on Peleliu.  The Japanese were beginning to learn from previous battles that wild Banzai charges consumed their troops quickly and led to short battles.  On Peleliu the Japanese demonstrated a new preference for protracted, attritional struggles based around interlocking and cunningly hidden defenses.  Indeed, it is hard not to read this book and gain great respect for the incredible defense put up by the Japanese troops on Peleliu.  All three factors - terrain, weather and new enemy tactics - ruined the American timetable and exacted a heavy toll on the invaders.<br /> Moran and Rottman blame Major General Rupertus, the commander of the 1st Marine Division, for much of the heavy casualties on Peleliu.  Rupertus initially claimed that Peleliu would be secured in 3-4 days of hard fighting.  It quickly became apparent on D-Day that the Marines were running into unexpectedly tough resistance, but Rupertus did not elect to alter his timetable.  Instead, Rupertus continually urged his regimental commanders to make costly frontal assaults until his division was virtually decimated.  Rupertus refused to ask for the 81st Division to relieve his Marines and he foolishly released his tank battalion just when his troops most needed armor support.  Rupertus kept urging his exhausted marines into futile assaults until there was nothing left to give.  At that point, the First Marines were relieved and replaced by the 81st Division, which eventually secured the island after two more months.  In the end, it took the Americans over two months to secure Peleliu and cost over 1,500 dead.  One big question left unanswered is why Nimitz didn't intervene to stop this senseless bloodletting and why Rupertus wasn't relieved until after the operation.  Obviously, there were more than a few reputations to protect from fallout from the Peleliu slugfest.  For military professionals, Peleliu 1944 provides an instructive lesson on the perils of over-confident predictions based on inadequate knowledge of the terrain, weather and a resourceful enemy.rican timetable and exacted a heavy toll on the invaders.  <br /> Moran and Rottman blame Major General Rupertus, the commander of the 1st Marine Division, for much of the heavy casualties on Peleliu.  Rupertus initially claimed that Peleliu would be secured in 3-4 days of hard fighting.  It quickly became apparent on D-Day that the Marines were running into unexpectedly tough resistance, but Rupertus did not elect to alter his timetable.  Instead, Rupertus continually urged his regimental commanders to make costly frontal assaults until his division was virtually decimated.  Rupertus refused to ask for the 81st Division to relieve his Marines and he foolishly released his tank battalion just when his troops most needed armor support.  Rupertus kept urging his exhausted marines into futile assaults until there was nothing left to give.  At that point, the First Marines were relieved and replaced by the 81st Division, which eventually secured the island after two more months.  In the end, it took the Americans over two months to secure Peleliu and cost over 1,500 dead.  One big question left unanswered is why Nimitz didn't intervene to stop this senseless bloodletting and why Rupertus wasn't relieved until after the operation.  Obviously, there were more than a few reputations to protect from fallout from the Peleliu slugfest.  For military professionals, Peleliu 1944 provides an instructive lesson on the perils of over-confident predictions based on inadequate knowledge of the terrain, weather and a resourceful enemy.	2003-01-03
1293133:US	52533596	R1EU9539KXO2DY	0091801214	837100340	Standard of Power: The Royal Navy in the 20th Century	Books	4	3	3	N	N	From Dreadnought to Kosovo	Standard of Power, written by an accomplished naval historian, is an excellent general history of the Royal Navy in the Twentieth Century.  This single volume covers the Royal Navy from the launching of HMS Dreadnought at the turn of the century to the Kosovo War of 1999.  While the author's primary effort is to cover the operational aspects of the Royal Navy's participation in the major conflicts of the century, he also addresses related issues such as personnel, technology and naval budgets.  The book is divided into three major sections, covering: the First World War era, the Second World War Era and the Warsaw Pact era and aftermath.<br />  At the turn of the 20th Century, the Royal Navy was the supreme naval power on earth and successfully applied the \\"Two Power Standard\\" to maintain quantitative superiority over any combination of rivals.  The Kaiser's attempt in 1900-1914 to build a rival to the Royal Navy is exposed by the author as a double folly, foremost because Germany lacked the resources to match England ship for ship.  Instead, the German \\"Risk Theory\\" was premised on achieving a favorable attrition ratio over isolated British squadrons until the High Seas Fleet could attempt a winner-take-all fleet battle.  Yet when war broke out in 1914, the British adoption of a \\"distant blockade\\" voided the German strategy and thus, the final rationale of the High Seas Fleet.  The section on the First World War consists of three chapters that cover the main operating units in the naval war: cruisers, battleships and submarines.  While the Royal Navy was well prepared to counter Germany's brief cruiser raids and to checkmate the High Seas Fleet, it was poorly-prepared both in doctrinal and technological terms to deal with unrestricted submarine warfare.  Royal Navy officers regarded commerce protection as unworthy of their attention and resisted convoys until shipping losses had reached catastrophic proportions.  In sum, the Royal Navy's obsession with big fleet tactics inhibited its ability to deal with the main threat, which was the U-Boats.<br />According to the author, the greatest defeat suffered by the Royal Navy in the Twentieth Century occurred in April 1918 when naval aviation was detached from the fleet and merged with the newly formed Royal Air Force.  Although the fleet was given a new air arm in 1938, the damage was done and the result was that the Royal Navy neglected air power and air defense in the 1930s.  When war broke out in 1939, the Royal Navy appeared to still be the strongest fleet on earth, but it lacked effective carrier-based aviation and even its warships were outdated compared to its enemies.  Lessons about anti-submarine warfare learned at great cost in the First World War were initially disregarded and the U-Boats were again allowed to wreak havoc on commerce due to the Royal Navy's failure to build sufficient escorts.  Air defense in the fleet was also weak and the Mediterranean Fleet suffered terribly at the hands of Axis airpower.  On the positive side, the Royal Navy had effective naval leaders in Ramsey, Cunningham and Somerville.  The fleet also displayed a talent for improvised evacuations, at Dunkirk, Greece and Crete.  Yet the Royal Navy's finest hour, according to the author, occurred in April-May 1943 during the Battle of Convoy ONS-5, which marked the beginning of the defeat of the U-Boats.  After that point, the Royal Navy was increasingly in the shadow of the rapidly expanding US Navy.  In sum, the author asserts that the Royal Navy achieved a victory in the Atlantic, a draw in the Mediterranean and was defeated in the Far East.<br />  After 1945, the Royal Navy rapidly dwindled in numbers due to rapid demobilization and financial pressures.  By 1950, the Royal Navy was a shadow of its former glory and was hard-pressed to meet its NATO obligations and deal with colonial unrest.  Yet this was more a period of adaptation to new roles, rather than decline.  While shrinking in size, theRN also demonstrated technological ingenuity in introducing angled flight decks, steam catapults and silent propulsion.  It was the Falklands War in 1982 that \\"saved\\" the Royal Navy from virtual extinction and offered a new role: force projection.  Rather than existing merely as a localized anti-submarine force within NATO, the author asserts that by the end of the century the Royal Navy had evolved into a dual-role force: a power projection fleet and a strategic deterrent in its Trident submarines.  The standard of power has evolved over the century from measuring the fleet quantitatively against potential rivals to instead sizing it to accomplish missions vital to Britain's national interests.ze, the RN also demonstrated technological ingenuity in introducing angled flight decks, steam catapults and silent propulsion.  It was the Falklands War in 1982 that \\"saved\\" the Royal Navy from virtual extinction and offered a new role: force projection.  Rather than existing merely as a localized anti-submarine force within NATO, the author asserts that by the end of the century the Royal Navy had evolved into a dual-role force: a power projection fleet and a strategic deterrent in its Trident submarines.  The standard of power has evolved over the century from measuring the fleet quantitatively against potential rivals to instead sizing it to accomplish missions vital to Britain's national interests.	2002-12-26
1293157:US	52533596	RG6BFH9QQWC7T	0805062882	773936746	An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943 (The Liberation Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Army That Couldn't Shoot Straight	In An Army at Dawn, Pulitzer prize-winning author Rick Atkinson, covers the North African campaign from the Torch landings in November 1942 to the final collapse of the Axis in Tunisia in May 1943.  Atkinson combines meticulous research with a fine writing style to produce easily the most readable account on this often-neglected campaign.  The author's primary conclusion is that this campaign marked  \\"..a subtle shift in the balance of power within the Anglo-American alliance; the United States was dominant now, by virtue of power and heft...\\" However, this conclusion is not supported by the author's narrative.  The Allies suffered over 75,000 casualties in the Tunisian campaign, of which 50% were Commonwealth, 26% were French and 24% were American.  Furthermore, the initial battle performance of the US Army was hardly impressive, and Truscott, one of the best US commanders of the war, called the North African campaign  \\"a mediocre performance.\\"<br /> Atkinson shows how the North African campaign emerged as an ad hoc requirement, based mostly on political considerations and thrown together in seven weeks.  The TORCH plan envisioned a joint Anglo-American occupation of Vichy French Algeria and Morocco, hopefully without resistance.  Straight off, TORCH demonstrated the unreadiness of this American Army and its leaders for war.  The Vichy French did resist for three days and killed 526 Americans.  Attempts to seize the harbors of Oran and Algiers ended as debacles; the French opened fire and virtually annihilated the two US battalions in these operations.  Fortunately, the Vichy French will to fight collapsed after three days and the rest of TORCH became an unopposed occupation.  Atkinson writes, \\"The truth was that a callow, clumsy Army had arrived in North Africa with little notion of how to act as a world power.  The balance of the campaign - indeed, the balance of the war -would require learning not only how to fight but how to rule.\\"<br /> Before the American Army had much chance to assess its performance in Algeria and Morocco, Eisenhower directed the Allied forces to occupy Tunisia.  However, the German response to TORCH was astounding; they rushed paratroops and tanks rapidly to Tunisia.  The Allies were slow to move into Tunisia and the forces they did move, were hobbled by the fact that, \\"scant thought had been given to actions after the initial landings, and only sketchy staff work was available on terrain, logistics, and air support in Tunisia.\\"  The result was a tepid crawl into Tunisia rather than a bold lunge and - not for the last time in the war - brilliant improvisation allowed the Germans to frustrate the Allied plan.  Atkinson places much of the blame for the failure on Eisenhower;  \\"In truth, he spent at least three quarters of his time worrying about political issues, and that pre-occupation poorly served the Allied cause.  Had he shunted aside all distractions to focus on seizing Tunis with a battle captain's fixed purpose, the coming months might have been different.\\"<br /> Instead of ending the campaign early, the Allies had to settle for a six-month battle of attrition. Indeed, the Germans were able to temporarily gain the initiative and inflicted a number of drubbings on the over-extended Anglo-American forces at places like Tebourba, Medjez, Longstop Hill, Faid Pass, and Sidi Bou Zid. The results were appalling.  US tanks continuously attacked in broad daylight across open ground and were slaughtered by efficient German anti-tank gunners.  At Sidi Bou Zid, the 2-1Armor Battalion attacked with music playing from loudspeakers and lost all 52 tanks.  The US Army in Tunisia fought with a host of disadvantages: under British command, with units committed piece-meal, employing faulty doctrine with inadequate weapons.  The US Army fought 13 major engagements in North Africa and had only one clear-cut victory: the Battle of El Guettar.<br /> Atkinson's account will not please readers who favor \\"Band of Brothers\\" type hagiography; there were villains as well as heroes in the so-called \\"Greatest Generation.\\"  Atkinson notes that, \\"Arab shooting became a sport in some units...\\" and there were, \\"continuing cases of rape in the forward areas against Arab women.\\"  Drunken American troops terrorized some villages and VD rates in Tunisia were extremely high.  US leadership in Tunisia was also sorely lacking, particularly Fredendall, the first commander of II Corps.  Although assessed by George C. Marshall as \\"a capable trainer,\\" Fredendall turned out to be an incompetent and moral coward.  After the Kasserine debacle, Patton replaced Fredendall, which Atkinson sees as a mixed blessing.  Patton fans may be dismayed by Atkinson's assessment that \\"For all Patton's melodramatics, his influence on the esprit and discipline of II Corps was marginal.\\"  Furthermore, Patton's tactical plan at the second engagement of El Guettar, in late April 1943, was \\"badly flawed\\" and resulted in over 3,000 US casualties in less than a week.<br /> There were some bright spots in the otherwise sorry state of the US Army in the North African campaign.  Atkinson notes that the Field Artillery performed well as did the Rangers.  Atkinson notes the US armor raid on Djedeïda airfield in November 1942 destroyed 37 German aircraft - probably the only major combat success for the diminutive Stuart tank in the Second World War.  The Americans also enjoyed an advantage in signals intelligence.<br /> Atkinson fails to make the case that the US participation in the Tunisian campaign affected the relative balance of power in the Anglo-American alliance.  Indeed, his narrative demonstrates that the Americans were the junior partners in Tunisia, with the bulk of troops coming from the Commonwealth and French armies.  Other factors, such as Lend Lease and US participation in the Battle of the Atlantic had far more impact on the nature of the alliance than a token ground deployment.  Does Atkinson really believe that if no US troops had fought in Tunisia that this would have greatly altered the US position in the world?  Nevertheless, Atkinson's account is certainly the most thorough and interesting narrative available on the North African campaign of 1942-1943.rothers\\" type hagiography; there were villains as well as heroes in the so-called \\"Greatest Generation.\\"  Atkinson notes that, \\"Arab shooting became a sport in some units...\\" and there were, \\"continuing cases of rape in the forward areas against Arab women.\\"  Drunken American troops terrorized some villages and VD rates in Tunisia were extremely high.  US leadership in Tunisia was also sorely lacking, particularly Fredendall, the first commander of II Corps.  Although assessed by George C. Marshall as \\"a capable trainer,\\" Fredendall turned out to be an incompetent and moral coward.  After the Kasserine debacle, Patton replaced Fredendall, which Atkinson sees as a mixed blessing.  Patton fans may be dismayed by Atkinson's assessment that \\"For all Patton's melodramatics, his influence on the esprit and discipline of II Corps was marginal.\\"  Furthermore, Patton's tactical plan at the second engagement of El Guettar, in late April 1943, was \\"badly flawed\\" and resulted in over 3,000 US casualties in less than a week.<br /> There were some bright spots in the otherwise sorry state of the US Army in the North African campaign.  Atkinson notes that the Field Artillery performed well as did the Rangers.  Atkinson notes the US armor raid on Djedeïda airfield in November 1942 destroyed 37 German aircraft - probably the only major combat success for the diminutive Stuart tank in the Second World War.  The Americans also enjoyed an advantage in signals intelligence.<br /> Atkinson fails to make the case that the US participation in the Tunisian campaign affected the relative balance of power in the Anglo-American alliance.  Indeed, his narrative demonstrates that the Americans were the junior partners in Tunisia, with the bulk of troops coming from the Commonwealth and French armies.  Other factors, such as Lend Lease and US participation in the Battle of the Atlantic had far more impact on the nature of the alliance than a token ground deployment.  Does Atkinson really believethat if no US troops had fought in Tunisia that this would have greatly altered the US position in the world?  Nevertheless, Atkinson's account is certainly the most thorough and interesting narrative available on the North African campaign of 1942-1943.	2002-12-26
1310707:US	52533596	R2OQ8B0KAA4YMA	1841763683	43538391	D-Day 1944 (4) Gold & Juno Beaches	Books	3	9	10	N	N	A Decent Summary	This is the second volume in the Osprey Campaign series' detailed examination of the D-Day landings.  In this tightly packaged volume, author Ken Ford offers considerable detail on the less well-known British and Canadian landings on Gold and Juno beaches on 6 June 1944.  Overall, the volume provides a decent campaign narrative combined with a high graphic quality in terms of maps and photographs.  This volume is not quite as good as the first volume in this series, which covered the landing on Sword Beach, and this may cause some readers apprehension as to what to expect from the remaining two volumes on D-Day.<br /> Gold &amp; Juno Beaches begins in standard Osprey format with short sections on the origin of the battle, a campaign chronology, opposing leaders, opposing armies and opposing plans. The author provides five 2-D maps (German defenses on Gold and Juno Beaches, Allied landings on Gold and Juno, and the situation at midnight on D-Day) and three 3-D &quot;Bird's Eye View&quot; maps (the British 69th Brigade landing on Gold, the Canadian 3rd Brigade landing on Juno, and the Battle of Villers-Bocage).  The two very detailed maps of the German defenses are particularly useful and interesting.  Three battle scenes are included: HMS Ajax bombarding the German defenses, the landing on Gold and the German evacuation of Ardenne Abbey on 8 June).  The author provides 28 pages on the Gold landings, 22 pages on Juno and ten pages on the week after the landings.  A detailed order of battle for both sides is also provided.  The bibliography is overly succinct and includes several out-dated books on the subject while ignoring several more recent and worthwhile books, such as Robert Kershaw's Piercing the Atlantic Wall.<br /> The author displays a bit of a jingoistic tone in this volume, beginning with his suggestion that the Allied units had &quot;sky-high&quot; morale and superb training, whereas the German defenders lacked these attributes.  Certainly any comparison of units like the veteran British 50th Division against the third-string German 716th Coastal Infantry Division will find the defenders at a qualitative and quantitative disadvantage.  However, Ford glosses over the fact that most German units were liberally sprinkled with combat veterans and only the static units were lower in morale and tactical competence.  The panzer, panzer grenadier and mobile infantry in reserve were certainly equal to the British units in tactical competence, and possessed solid, reliable equipment.  Furthermore, the author tends to denigrate the performance of the 716th Division on D-Day, yet this weak unit managed to delay five Allied divisions for the bulk of the day and fulfilled its intended role.  Ford's description of the collapse of the German &quot;crust&quot; defense around mid-day on D-Day as a rout does not ring true, since if it was a rout why did the British and Canadians fail to reach their D-Day objectives?  It was not the failure of the coastal defense units - which were always viewed as expendable - but the failure to promptly deploy mobile reserves that ultimately compromised the German Atlantic Wall.<br /> Ford's discussion of the landings is decent, but there is not much analysis.  For example, the British landed very little infantry in the first assault waves and relied on armored engineering vehicles to breach the main obstacle belt, which was the exact opposite of the American methods employed on Omaha and Utah.  The British methods were highly successful and kept their losses at an acceptable level.  Ford also really only addresses the assault waves and spends little effort discussing the follow-up forces and the development of the beachheads.  Nevertheless, readers can easily follow the action using this volume's text and maps.on of units like the veteran British 50th Division against the third-string German 716th Coastal Infantry Division will find the defenders at a qualitative and quantitative disadvantage.  However, Ford glosses over the fact that most German units were liberally sprinkled with combat veterans and only the static units were lower in morale and tactical competence.  The panzer, panzer grenadier and mobile infantry in reserve were certainly equal to the British units in tactical competence, and possessed solid, reliable equipment.  Furthermore, the author tends to denigrate the performance of the 716th Division on D-Day, yet this weak unit managed to delay five Allied divisions for the bulk of the day and fulfilled its intended role.  Ford's description of the collapse of the German &quot;crust&quot; defense around mid-day on D-Day as a rout does not ring true, since if it was a rout why did the British and Canadians fail to reach their D-Day objectives?  It was not the failure of the coastal defense units - which were always viewed as expendable - but the failure to promptly deploy mobile reserves that ultimately compromised the German Atlantic Wall.  <br /> Ford's discussion of the landings is decent, but there is not much analysis.  For example, the British landed very little infantry in the first assault waves and relied on armored engineering vehicles to breach the main obstacle belt, which was the exact opposite of the American methods employed on Omaha and Utah.  The British methods were highly successful and kept their losses at an acceptable level.  Ford also really only addresses the assault waves and spends little effort discussing the follow-up forces and the development of the beachheads.  Nevertheless, readers can easily follow the action using this volume's text and maps.	2002-12-10
1314907:US	52533596	R2V52C5WLURHGN	0393322939	177646975	Redcoats and Rebels: The American Revolution Through British Eyes	Books	4	41	46	N	N	Who Lost America?	Redcoats and Rebels is a succinct history of the American Revolution as told primarily from the British perspective.  Like the United States, Great Britain has lost only one major war in the last three centuries, and such a singular defeat begs for close examination.  Christopher Hibbert, a renowned professional historian, provides the British perspective on the war with his typical pithy style and insights.  While there is nothing radically new in this book, Hibbert succeeds in providing a narrative with great insight into the decision-making processes and senior leadership on both sides.  Redcoats and Rebels is suitable for either general audiences or specialists who desire background on the British high-level conduct of the war.  However, American readers may notice certain sensitivities that have not faded with time and Hibbert fails to ask the hard questions about why Britain lost its American colonies.<br /> Redcoats and Rebels consists of 25 short chapters, each covering a specific phase or episode in the war.  In addition to illustrations, some simple but decent maps and a detailed bibliography, Hibbert provides an interesting appendix on the post-war careers of the major participants.  Overall, the narrative is well written and flows smoothly.  These pages are obviously written by a professional historian.<br /> Ultimately, Hibbert points to three reasons for the British defeat: poor leadership, the difficulty of the terrain and the tenacity of the American rebels.  Hibbert is particularly scathing throughout the book in his criticism of the senior British commanders who fought the war: Howe, Clinton, Burgoyne and Cornwallis, as well as the senior political leadership in London.  Although the British won battle after battle, their leaders seemed to lack the killer instinct to finish off the Americans when they had the upper hand.  The fact that Howe could sit in Philadelphia and not attack Washington's tattered army only 20 miles away at Valley Forge in the winter of 1777-1778 seems almost miraculous.  One British officer at the time lamented that, \\"our generals and admirals don't seem to be in earnest about this business.\\"  Although Hibbert only touches on the subject of British motivation, it seems evident that most of the senior British leaders had serious doubts about the war and that a certain fatalism crept into decision-making.  Hibbert's criticisms of British generals, who often seem more concerned with lavish dinners and mistresses, is not always fair since Howe and Burgoyne both demonstrated tactical competence.  The second factor that determined defeat, according to Hibbert, was the rugged and expansive nature of the American terrain, which always provided the rebels with places to escape British offensives.  There is no doubt that the British army in America was too small for the task; Hibbert notes that the British estimated that they needed 50-75,000 troops to subdue the rebels but never had more than 35,000 troops available at any one time.  As the Americans found in Vietnam, the British could control any terrain they occupied but their forces were just too small to fight war on such a continental scale.  Previous campaigns against rebels in Ireland, Scotland and England had not had to contend with such major terrain obstacles or distances.  Finally, Hibbert credits the tenacity of the Americans - particularly Washington and Greene - with protracting the war until British resolve dwindled.<br /> One major area that Hibbert only skims around is the issue of strategic objectives in America.  Did Britain really have a chance to achieve a military victory and if so, what strategy offered the best chances?  Hibbert does hint at the British strategic dilemma when he notes Cornwallis' efforts to raise loyalist troops in the south.  With limited troops, Cornwallis could either protect the loyalist areas in a defensive strategy or pursue the rebel army in an offensive strategy.  Without sufficient loyalist troops, the British effort in America was probably doomed, but a strategic defense that protected loyalist areas would inevitably yield the initiative to the revels.  British commanders were split on the horns of this dilemma; Howe and Clinton were more or less content to hold the loyalist base in New York, whereas the more aggressive Burgoyne and Cornwallis made (fatal) efforts to catch and destroy the rebel armies.  Hibbert's narrative also exposes the essentially one-dimensional approach of British strategy in containing the rebellion; the British relied too heavily on their own professional military and under-utilized the enormous political and economic tools at their disposal.  Indeed, the main factor inhibiting the rebel war effort was always lack of hard cash yet the British made only modest efforts to go after this weakness.  Politically, the British might have made more concessions earlier to encourage loyalist sympathies, but their envoys were never serious about compromise.<br /> Finally, the question of war mobilization is also addressed in part by Hibbert.  Fundamentally, Britain never committed the army and navy resources to achieve a decisive military victory in America, but that does not mean that these resources were lacking.  Hibbert notes an interesting point about the King's dilemma in raising new army formations: enlisted manpower was cheap and readily available but the officers could draw half pay for ten years after their units were demobilized.  Instead, the King relied on hiring large numbers of Hessian mercenaries in order to avoid the overhead costs associated with the enlargement of the British Army.  Although the British only had to fight the Americans for the first three years of the war, large army and navy forces were retained in Great Britain in order to deter French and Spanish intervention, but this deterrent effort was a failure.  Essentially, Britain opted initially to fight the war on the cheap but was forced into a gradual military escalation that kept the war going but could not win it.troops, the British effort in America was probably doomed, but a strategic defense that protected loyalist areas would inevitably yield the initiative to the revels.  British commanders were split on the horns of this dilemma; Howe and Clinton were more or less content to hold the loyalist base in New York, whereas the more aggressive Burgoyne and Cornwallis made (fatal) efforts to catch and destroy the rebel armies.  Hibbert's narrative also exposes the essentially one-dimensional approach of British strategy in containing the rebellion; the British relied too heavily on their own professional military and under-utilized the enormous political and economic tools at their disposal.  Indeed, the main factor inhibiting the rebel war effort was always lack of hard cash yet the British made only modest efforts to go after this weakness.  Politically, the British might have made more concessions earlier to encourage loyalist sympathies, but their envoys were never serious about compromise.     <br /> Finally, the question of war mobilization is also addressed in part by Hibbert.  Fundamentally, Britain never committed the army and navy resources to achieve a decisive military victory in America, but that does not mean that these resources were lacking.  Hibbert notes an interesting point about the King's dilemma in raising new army formations: enlisted manpower was cheap and readily available but the officers could draw half pay for ten years after their units were demobilized.  Instead, the King relied on hiring large numbers of Hessian mercenaries in order to avoid the overhead costs associated with the enlargement of the British Army.  Although the British only had to fight the Americans for the first three years of the war, large army and navy forces were retained in Great Britain in order to deter French and Spanish intervention, but this deterrent effort was a failure.  Essentially, Britain opted initially to fight the war on the cheap but was forced into a gradualmilitary escalation that kept the war going but could not win it.	2002-12-06
1327280:US	52533596	R157TCVDKFL3N8	1841764051	889475062	German Army Elite Units 1939–45 (Men-at-Arms)	Books	2	48	53	N	N	Units With Fancy Patches	The plain fact is that the German Army did not have many \\"elite\\" units in the Second World War, thanks in part to the plethora of such units in the Waffen SS and Luftwaffe.  The German Army was built for mass and a force that was never more than 20% motorized could ill afford the luxury of expensive special units.  Only a few units were undeniably elite - Grossdeutschland, the Brandenbergers, and Panzer Lehr.  Gordon Williamson's latest Men-at-Arms volume, German Army Elite Units 1939-1945, seems to stretch the definition of \\"elite\\" to extreme proportions in order to justify covering a variety of units.  Overall, this volume seems to be more of an introduction to units with fancy or unique sleeve and collar patches, rather than a real survey of elite units.<br /> Williamson begins with the Grossdeutschland unit, which grew from regiment to division in the first years of the war.  The author spends about four pages detailing the history and organization of Grossdeutschland, and three pages on uniform items like cuff bands and shoulder straps.  The two interesting satellite units, the FG and FB brigades, are barely mentioned.  Two pages are spent on the Brandenbergers, who grew from small commando units to division size by 1944.  Panzer Lehr, formed from high-quality training cadres, also receives two pages of coverage.  Thus, the author provides only 11 pages out of 42 for the truly elite units, and uses the bulk of the volume on a heterogeneous collection of other units.<br /> The inclusion of the Feldherrnhalle Division is justified by its links to the SA, but there was nothing in actual battlefield performance that distinguished it from other divisions.  Some readers might be tempted to equate Feldherrnhalle with a Waffen SS-type unit, but this was not the case.  The justification for elite status becomes even murkier when the author moves on to the 44th \\"Hoch und Deutschmeister\\" Infantry Division.  Aside from the fact that this unit was organized, trained and equipped as an ordinary German infantry division, the only distinguishing characteristic was a cuff band that was authorized two months before the end of the war but never issued.  So a cuff band that was never issued makes a unit elite?  Even more unremarkable are the 5th Cavalry Regiment \\"von Mackensen\\" and the 9th and 119th Infantry Regiments which shared the honorific title \\"List.\\"  The inclusion of these units with fancy names and insignia but no elite characteristics is a serious distraction from the real elite units.<br /> The other oddity about this volume is the inclusion of several panzer and mountain units; the author includes the 21st, 24th and 116th Panzer Divisions and the 3rd and 5th Mountain Divisions.  Other than participation in some sideshow campaigns like Narvik, Crete and North Africa which allowed some veterans to wear rare service badges, these units were really no different than many other similar divisions.  Why include the 3rd Mountain as elite, but exclude the 1st or 2nd Divisions?  There is no dispute that all these divisions were effective combat formations but the author makes no case to distinguish them as elite from other similar units in the German Army.  The author concludes this volume with a brief survey of the ten non-divisional \\"Tiger\\" tank battalions.  Again, these units were certainly formidable but were they truly elite?  Some battalions, like the 510th, were organized late in the war and quickly swamped by the advancing Red Army.  Apparently, the author feels that the \\"legendary\\" reputation of the Tiger tank renders all units equipped with it elite.  Yet if lethal reputation is the prerequisite for elite status, why not include some of the longer-serving assault gun battalions that destroyed far more Soviet tanks than some of the later Tiger units?<br /> Ultimately, the whole issue of elite units is obscured by this study's arbitrary inclusion of units without applying any objective criterion for admission.  Apparently, in thisauthor's mind, elite status can derive from the adoption of fancy uniform accessories and honorific titles just as much as special training or recruiting.  Indeed, the issues of recruiting, selection and training are noticeably absent in this volume.  This is a bungled attempt at a survey of elite German Army units that founders due to lack of an objective methodology.  Instead of using the limited space in an Osprey Men-at-Arms title to focus on the genuine elite units, space is gratuitously wasted on \\"eye-wash\\" and celebrity units in order to bolster the market appeal of this volume.  Other elite or specialist units, such as the German long-range reconnaissance units in North Africa or assault pioneer units in Russia, would have been better candidates for inclusion in this volume than units like the \\"List\\" Regiment.author's mind, elite status can derive from the adoption of fancy uniform accessories and honorific titles just as much as special training or recruiting.  Indeed, the issues of recruiting, selection and training are noticeably absent in this volume.  This is a bungled attempt at a survey of elite German Army units that founders due to lack of an objective methodology.  Instead of using the limited space in an Osprey Men-at-Arms title to focus on the genuine elite units, space is gratuitously wasted on \\"eye-wash\\" and celebrity units in order to bolster the market appeal of this volume.  Other elite or specialist units, such as the German long-range reconnaissance units in North Africa or assault pioneer units in Russia, would have been better candidates for inclusion in this volume than units like the \\"List\\" Regiment.	2002-11-26
1328662:US	52533596	R21R88AJ0WCXMB	1841764620	987066160	German Infantryman (1) 1933–40 (Warrior)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Excellent Methodology, Poorly Executed	Osprey's Warrior series claims to provide &quot;insights into the daily lives of history's fighting men and women, past and present, detailing their motivation, training, tactics, weaponry and experiences.&quot;  David Westwood's volume, German Infantryman, succeeds only in detailing some of aspects of German infantry training, tactics, weaponry and experiences in the period 1933-1940.  Westwood, who studied at Sandhurst (like the Great Gatsby &quot;at Oxford&quot;?), is familiar with military terminology but does not write with the insight of a military man.  The author chose an excellent methodology to detail the inner workings of a German infantry unit - by focusing on a specific unit - but executes this methodology in a very peculiar and uneven manner.  While the photographs and illustrations provide an excellent graphic quality to this volume, the narrative is too generic to be of much historical value.<br /> German Infantryman consists of a short introduction that provides background on the inter-war Reichsheer, followed by a 24-page section on recruiting and training.  Initially, the training section starts out well with a brief description of the Wehrkreise system, the training depots, basic training and weapons training.  In some cases, the author provides good detail, like the fact that a German soldier fired over 300 rounds during basic training.  However, there is surprisingly little depth provided about the 16 weeks of German basic training and much of what is provided could apply to any army's basic training.  I recall other German sources mentioning significant differences in their basic training - like hand grenades and anti-tank training - that is barely touched here.  There is no mention of motivation, regional differences between units or how men were selected for various operational specialties.  Nor does the author even mention specialty training after basic, such as mortar school or pioneers.  While the Warrior series is not designed to address organization, the author might also have made some effort to state how many infantrymen were in a platoon, company, battalion, etc (there is one skimpy line diagram, but no personnel strengths are listed).  The later half of this section, covering issues such as marching, field craft and map reading, could apply to any army.<br /> In the second section, the author decides to convey the battlefield experiences of a particular unit - the 30th Infantry Regiment in the 18th Division - in the Polish and French campaigns.  The author shifts into this focus on the 30th Infantry Regiment with no explanation or introduction to the unit.  In this section, the author providers a pastiche of German eyewitness accounts relating to marches, initial combat experiences, a set-piece battle, river crossings, attack on fixed defenses, fighting in urban areas and anti-tank fighting.  Some accounts are interesting, some not, but most are too generic to be of much value.  There is no real explanation of tactics here, such as how a German infantry platoon employed its machineguns and 50mm mortar in the attack or how a German battalion made a movement to contact, only vague reminiscences.  The color plates are quite good, as usual, and these will be of benefit to model builders but the historical value of this volume is quite suspect.<br /> There are a host of issues that the other should have at least mentioned but failed to address, like the &quot;wave&quot; system in which German divisions were raised and the fact that there were different types of infantry units (Jaeger, Landwehr, reserve).  The issue of motivation should have been addressed, too.  In the early stages of the Polish campaign, some German infantry units were very reticent to enter combat and some even performed poorly.  Fear of heavy losses caused by the memory of the First World War and the legacy of defeat was not completely gone until the French victory.  The author should also have made some mention of the demographics of German infantrymen, as well as more discussion on the junior leadership.  While the author's bibliography seems robust enough, it does not appear that he made a full effort to address this subject in the depth it deserves.raphics of German infantrymen, as well as more discussion on the junior leadership.  While the author's bibliography seems robust enough, it does not appear that he made a full effort to address this subject in the depth it deserves.	2002-11-24
1330065:US	52533596	RGNN1WBUB8BTF	0850527112	213217861	Your Country Needs You!: Expansion of the British Army Infantry Divisions 1914-1918	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Mobilization A to Z	At first glance, a book about the mobilization of British infantry divisions in the First World War might not seem like a very interesting subject.  Look again, and note that this book is written by Martin Middlebrook, one of the most readable authors on the First World War.  Middlebrook initially pulled this material together as a reference guide intended only for his own purposes, but then realized that he had the essence of a viable book and decided to publish it.  As with any Middlebrook effort, the result is worthwhile.  The value of this book, beyond the mere enumeration of data on every British division in the war, is that it serves to explain the strengths and weakness of the British Army in the First World War - much of which was attributable to mobilization policies.<br /> Your Country Needs You consists of eight chapters, with the first six covering the different types of infantry divisions: regulars, the New Army, the Pals, the First-Line and Second-Line Territorials.  The last two chapters cover the changing army after 1916 and the final year of the war.  Two appendices detail the wartime expansion of a typical British regiment and the casualties suffered by each British regiment in the war.  Only infantry units from the Home Islands are covered, but Middlebrook does address other Commonwealth forces and support units when appropriate.  The 200+ photographs in the volume are also excellent and many have not appeared elsewhere (e.g. a photo of a British army recruiting desk in New York City circa 1915 - apparently the &quot;neutral&quot; USA allowed Allied recruiting of their nationals in our country).<br /> Middlebrook provides an entry detailing the formation, composition and deployment of each of the 65 infantry divisions that saw active service in the First World War, although the regulars receive far-less coverage than the newly-raised units.  Although Middlebrook is loathe to criticize the British mobilization effort, which was able to increase the army from 6 to 65 divisions in less than two years, it is apparent that mistakes made in the program severely degraded Britain's ability to conduct sustained combat operations on the continent.  Before the war, Lord Haldane had established the Territorials (similar to the US National Guard) and an Officer Training Corps (OTC) to provide for a mobilization base to backstop the tiny regular army.  However, Haldane was replaced at the start of the war by Field Marshal Kitchener, who decided to improvise an ad hoc force known as &quot;the New Army.&quot;  On top of this, volunteer units known as &quot;Pal&quot; units were raised by various localities and Kitchener decided to incorporate them into his New Army structure.  The result was three different sources of infantry divisions, all forming from different manpower sources and with varying training standards.  Furthermore, there was a severe shortage of trained officers, NCOs, and support units to fully equip the new units.  Most of the New Army units had to rely on over-age  &quot;Dug Out&quot; officers who were clueless about modern combat conditions and over 100,000 direct commissions were given to create &quot;instant&quot; junior officers; consequently, the new units had very low quality leadership in many cases.  Eventually, Kitchener was able to deploy 30 New Army divisions and 28 Territorials, but the reader will be left to ponder whether Britain's war effort might have benefited from fewer divisions of better quality.  Ultimately, the hastily raised and trained nature of the New Army probably contributed to the appalling losses at the Somme and Ypres.<br /> Another problem that Middlebrook discusses is the serious manpower mismanagement evident in the British mobilization plan. First, the British government was overly generous with exemptions and fully one-third of the available manpower sat at the war in the industrial and agricultural sectors.  Second, the regional nature of British regiments caused problems when these regions could not sustain replacements to keep their regiments near full-strength; the Scottish and Irish units were particularly difficult to keep up, and many battalions were woefully under-strength by 1917.  Britain initially relied on volunteers to sustain its ground combat forces but by March 1916 this pool of volunteers had dwindled and conscription was introduced.  It is also interesting that the British manpower system broke down and was unable to keep units near full-strength even before the massive losses of the Somme and Passchendaele.  Conscription changed the British Army by diluting regional characteristics and loyalties.  Heavy losses in 1916-1917 caused the British to combine depleted units, shift many units around and further alter the character of their divisions.<br /> Middlebrook also discusses the issue of whether Lloyd George &quot;hid&quot; infantry units in England to prevent Haig from squandering more British lives in futile offensives in Flanders. The short answer is no.  Many accounts of the First World War suggest otherwise and claim that George's manpower parsimony contributed to the near-fatal weakness of the British Army in France in 1918, but Middlebrook's data tells a different story.  In fact, the most of the 200,000 or so British troops in the UK in 1918 were mostly very low quality Second-Line Territorial units that never fully formed.  On the other hand, Middlebrook makes the point that the British had over 100,000 troops in India as well as five cavalry divisions in Europe that might have made excellent replacements (Haig the cavalryman, refused to break up his beloved horsed units no matter how archaic and useless).  Instead, the British muddled through their manpower mess and often had to rely on improvised solutions, like &quot;Bantam&quot; divisions made up of men five feet tall (or less).  The story of the mobilization of the British Army is important to understanding Britain's combat role in the First World War, and Middlebrook tells the story in an exceptional manner.roblems when these regions could not sustain replacements to keep their regiments near full-strength; the Scottish and Irish units were particularly difficult to keep up, and many battalions were woefully under-strength by 1917.  Britain initially relied on volunteers to sustain its ground combat forces but by March 1916 this pool of volunteers had dwindled and conscription was introduced.  It is also interesting that the British manpower system broke down and was unable to keep units near full-strength even before the massive losses of the Somme and Passchendaele.  Conscription changed the British Army by diluting regional characteristics and loyalties.  Heavy losses in 1916-1917 caused the British to combine depleted units, shift many units around and further alter the character of their divisions.   <br /> Middlebrook also discusses the issue of whether Lloyd George &quot;hid&quot; infantry units in England to prevent Haig from squandering more British lives in futile offensives in Flanders. The short answer is no.  Many accounts of the First World War suggest otherwise and claim that George's manpower parsimony contributed to the near-fatal weakness of the British Army in France in 1918, but Middlebrook's data tells a different story.  In fact, the most of the 200,000 or so British troops in the UK in 1918 were mostly very low quality Second-Line Territorial units that never fully formed.  On the other hand, Middlebrook makes the point that the British had over 100,000 troops in India as well as five cavalry divisions in Europe that might have made excellent replacements (Haig the cavalryman, refused to break up his beloved horsed units no matter how archaic and useless).  Instead, the British muddled through their manpower mess and often had to rely on improvised solutions, like &quot;Bantam&quot; divisions made up of men five feet tall (or less).  The story of the mobilization of the British Army is important to understanding Britain's combat role in the FirstWorld War, and Middlebrook tells the story in an exceptional manner.	2002-11-23
1339750:US	52533596	RQN6UTVI8AC5A	0304357146	943427117	Cannae (Fields Of Battle)	Books	4	32	36	N	Y	A Detailed Look at a Classic Battle	Despite having been fought over 22 centuries ago, Cannae is still widely regarded as the most classic example of a battle of annihilation in military history.  Several ancient historians - principally Polybius and Livy - addressed the battle in their time and several modern historians have attempted to tackle this subject, which is obscured by lack of documentation.  Adrian Goldsworthy, an English scholar of ancient warfare, uses the methodology employed by John Keegan in the Face of Battle to attempt to unravel the details of the great Roman defeat at Cannae.  Readers may not always agree with the author's interpretations, but he does succeed in bringing the battle to life and this volume is further proof of the high quality of Cassel's new Field of Battle series.<br /> Cannae consists of five sections that cover the background to the Second Punic War, the opposing armies, the campaign of 216 BC, the Battle of Cannae and its aftermath.  Certainly the best thing about Goldsworthy's Cannae is it's very high graphic quality.  The fifteen full-color battle maps included in the volume are excellent and fully support the campaign narrative.  Goldsworthy also includes two appendices with data on opposing strengths and casualties in the battle, a glossary and footnotes (but no bibliography).<br /> The Roman Army that marched to disaster at Cannae was the largest ever deployed on a single battlefield by Rome.  However, Goldsworthy notes the inherent weaknesses in this huge army, beginning with a divided command structure and inadequately trained legions.  As Goldsworthy notes, the legionaries that were hastily mobilized in the summer of 216 BC lacked the training and discipline of later Roman armies, and their commanders lacked experience.  Thus, Hannibal's professional army had a distinct qualitative edge over the larger Roman army.  At Cannae, Hannibal's troops were capable of tactical flexibility and agility, but the Romans could only employ unimaginative brute-force linear tactics.  On the other hand, Goldsworthy notes that the Roman Republic had enormous manpower reserves for an ancient state - about 700,000 males - and could better sustain combat losses.  Another interesting feature that Goldsworthy highlights is the participation of the Roman elite in the campaign; between 25 and 30% of Rome's senators were killed or captured in the battle.<br /> Goldsworthy's account is most interesting because he tries to analyze the campaign and battle in much greater detail that heretofore attempted.  He rejects the popular notion that the Roman decision to seek battle at Cannae was foolhardy, since there is no evidence that the alternative \\"Fabian strategy\\" was capable of achieving victory.  The Roman leadership knew that the only needed to win a single major victory over Hannibal to end the Carthaginian invasion and then went about amassing the means to achieve their ends.  The Roman commanders were wary of Hannibal's tactical skill and they approached his army cautiously in the days before the battle, but once they decided to attack, they attempted to use constrictive terrain to minimize the Carthaginian advantage in cavalry.  The Roman battle plan was simple but effective, and had a reasonable chance for success.  However, the Roman cavalry collapsed far more quickly than expected and the Roman plan began to disintegrate.  Although the Romans succeeded in breaking the Carthaginian center, the Roman infantry lacked the agility to deal with threats from their exposed flanks.  Once surrounded, the Roman army was slowly hacked to death, making 2 August 216 BC one of the bloodiest days in military history.<br /> One of the more interesting parts of the book is the aftermath section, where Goldsworthy addresses Hannibal's failure to exploit his victory and march on Rome.  Goldsworthy notes Hannibal's \\"cultural assumption\\" that Cannae was a significant enough victory to bring Rome to terms, and therefore it was unnecessary to march upon the capital to deliver a coup de grace. This set of circumstances might remind readers of the situation facing General Schwarzkopf in 1991, when he decided not to march on the Iraqi capital after achieving a similarly one-sided battlefield triumph.  Obviously, some things about warfare don't change over the centuries.<br /> My only problem with Goldsworthy's methodology is the use of modern-day combat research to advance some of his pet theories.  In particular, the use of Marshall's now-discredited statistics on combat participation to explain legionary tactics at Cannae is ludicrous; nowhere does the author mention that Marshall's analysis of American rifle squads in the Korean War was in no way comparable to Roman tactics 2,000 years before.  For example, Marshall's famous statistic that only 17% of US infantrymen fired their weapon in combat is irrelevant to the Roman legionary who was in full sight of his enemy.  A Roman legionary who would not fight could not run, hide or remain passive under such circumstances.  Goldsworthy also fails to take into account the fact that the Roman soldiers had a great motivation to fight - after witnessing two years of enemy depredations in their native land - they were fighting on their own soil to drive out an invader.  At Cannae, the Romans did not fail for lack of means or willpower, they failed due to lack of adequate training and experience.  Yet defeat provided a catalyst for a Roman military revival and in the end, Hannibal's tactical masterpiece was for naught.capital to deliver a coup de grace. This set of circumstances might remind readers of the situation facing General Schwarzkopf in 1991, when he decided not to march on the Iraqi capital after achieving a similarly one-sided battlefield triumph.  Obviously, some things about warfare don't change over the centuries.<br /> My only problem with Goldsworthy's methodology is the use of modern-day combat research to advance some of his pet theories.  In particular, the use of Marshall's now-discredited statistics on combat participation to explain legionary tactics at Cannae is ludicrous; nowhere does the author mention that Marshall's analysis of American rifle squads in the Korean War was in no way comparable to Roman tactics 2,000 years before.  For example, Marshall's famous statistic that only 17% of US infantrymen fired their weapon in combat is irrelevant to the Roman legionary who was in full sight of his enemy.  A Roman legionary who would not fight could not run, hide or remain passive under such circumstances.  Goldsworthy also fails to take into account the fact that the Roman soldiers had a great motivation to fight - after witnessing two years of enemy depredations in their native land - they were fighting on their own soil to drive out an invader.   At Cannae, the Romans did not fail for lack of means or willpower, they failed due to lack of adequate training and experience.  Yet defeat provided a catalyst for a Roman military revival and in the end, Hannibal's tactical masterpiece was for naught.	2002-11-15
1346998:US	52533596	RP80OQ1OGO8KR	1841763950	392496273	The French Religious Wars 1562–1598 (Essential Histories)	Books	5	27	27	N	Y	One of the Best of the Essential History Series	Finally, Osprey is beginning to break new ground with its Essential History series.  Professor Robert J. Knecht, an English scholar on French 16th Century history from the University of Birmingham, is the author of the latest volume in the series - The French Religious Wars 1562-1598.  Knecht's book is well written and covers a much-neglected subject with considerable skill and insight.<br /> The French Religious Wars 1562-1598 begins with sections on the background to the conflict, which cover the related threads of religious and aristocratic dissent in mid-16th Century France.  Initially, Professor Knecht shows that the French King - a staunch defender of the Catholic faith in the realm - was able to deal with the early spread of the Lutheran faith into France, but failed to inhibit the more virulent Calvinist strain.  Indeed, the infiltration into France of Calvinist missionaries from Geneva resembled communist tactics in the 1920s and 1930s.  By 1560, some of the French nobility had been converted and Protestants in France - dubbed \\"Huguenots\\" - had become a significant problem to the stability of the realm, although Knecht notes that they were only about 10% of the total population.  Faced with this growing threat, the French monarchy adopted a policy of religious persecution, which inevitably led to violent clashes.  It is also clear from Knecht's account that both sides used violence and wanton destruction to intimidate their opponents.  Efforts at compromise failed and both sides gradually became committed to the conversion or elimination of the other.  However, non-religious factors also influenced the outbreak of civil war in France, particularly the relationship between a relatively weak and cash-starved monarchy and opportunistic nobility.  Indeed, one interesting characteristic of these wars was the propensity of major players to switch faith and loyalties as the tides of war shifted.<br /> Professor Knecht provides interesting detail on the military aspects of the wars as well.  Although numerically strong, the French Royal Army comprised 70% foreign mercenaries. Paying the troops was thus a chronic problem and there was never enough cash to sustain armies for more than one year at a time, which induced a spasmodic quality into the conduct of campaigns.  Both armies were also trained and equipped in essentially the same manner, as often happens in civil wars.  Foreign military interventions occurred from time to time in support of both sides, but were never decisive.  Professor Knecht's campaign narrative is 41 pages long and quite good.  The detail on the Battle of Dreux in 1562 - where oddly the commanders of both sides were captured - is particularly interesting.  Knecht's narrative also reveals the complex web of diplomatic, political and social factors which intertwined with the strictly military operations.  The French Religious Wars were a complex historical phenomenon, but Professor Knecht succeeds in producing a remarkably coherent account of these conflicts.<br /> Maps in this volume include: a strategic map of battles and sieges, wars from 1572-1585, the battles of Dreux, St Denis, Coutras, Arques, Ivry, Huguenot security towns, Coligny's march and foreign aid, and the last wars in 1585-1598.  The illustrations in this volume are also quite good.  The author's bibliography is extensive and indicates real research, as well as providing a useful starting point for further reading.  The \\"portrait of a soldier\\" section is much better than usual in these volumes, particularly the portrait of the brutal French Marshal Blaise de Monluc, who believed that, \\"cruelty was essential to the effective conduct of war.\\"y aspects of the wars as well.  Although numerically strong, the French Royal Army comprised 70% foreign mercenaries. Paying the troops was thus a chronic problem and there was never enough cash to sustain armies for more than one year at a time, which induced a spasmodic quality into the conduct of campaigns.  Both armies were also trained and equipped in essentially the same manner, as often happens in civil wars.  Foreign military interventions occurred from time to time in support of both sides, but were never decisive.  Professor Knecht's campaign narrative is 41 pages long and quite good.  The detail on the Battle of Dreux in 1562 - where oddly the commanders of both sides were captured - is particularly interesting.  Knecht's narrative also reveals the complex web of diplomatic, political and social factors which intertwined with the strictly military operations.  The French Religious Wars were a complex historical phenomenon, but Professor Knecht succeeds in producing a remarkably coherent account of these conflicts.  <br /> Maps in this volume include: a strategic map of battles and sieges, wars from 1572-1585, the battles of Dreux, St Denis, Coutras, Arques, Ivry, Huguenot security towns, Coligny's march and foreign aid, and the last wars in 1585-1598.  The illustrations in this volume are also quite good.  The author's bibliography is extensive and indicates real research, as well as providing a useful starting point for further reading.  The \\"portrait of a soldier\\" section is much better than usual in these volumes, particularly the portrait of the brutal French Marshal Blaise de Monluc, who believed that, \\"cruelty was essential to the effective conduct of war.\\"	2002-11-08
1350543:US	52533596	RTBM4UHOKKVHW	0752417894	623402060	Verdun 1916 (Battles & Campaigns)	Books	3	11	11	N	Y	Essentially a TV Documentary, on Paper	Verdun 1916 by Malcolm Brown joins the thin ranks of English-language books written about the horrific Battle of Verdun.  Although well written, Brown's book certainly does not surpass Alistair Horne's classic, the Price of Glory, which was written forty years ago.  Indeed, Verdun 1916 is essentially a TV documentary on the great battle, merely committed to paper instead of the small screen.  Brown, a freelance historian noted for his TV documentaries in association with the Imperial War Museum, approaches this subject with the intent of painting a portrait of war at its worst for the enlightenment of modern Europeans who are beginning to forget the awfulness of full-scale warfare.  While the author follows closely in Horne's well-worn footsteps in recounting the battle itself, he does succeed in inserting new and interesting material about human facets of the battle.  Verdun 1916 is not much as a campaign narrative, but it does help to put a human face on one of the worst scenes of carnage in the 20th Century.<br /> Verdun 1916 consists of twenty short chapters, beginning with sections covering background to the battle and opposing preparations.  The account of the battle itself is fairly succinct at only 118 pages and readers will get just the basic facts, with little embellishment or analysis.  Indeed, the lack of any detail concerning the underground fighting in Fort Vaux or the seesaw battles in the villages around the fort are serious omissions.  Certainly the greatest weakness of the book is the presence of only a single map - and a map that does not depict important villages like Fleurus, where thousands of troops died. Military readers will also note that few specific units are mentioned, that there is little or no mention of the corps and division level leaders on either side, and that few specific dates are given; as military history, this lack of specific detail just doesn't cut it.  On the plus side, there are eighty photographs in the book, some of which depict interesting sidelights, such as the effect of shelling upon the city of Verdun.  Scholarly readers will note the brevity of the bibliography and the over-reliance on English language sources; apparently the author made little effort to utilize French or German archival material.<br /> The first half of Verdun 1916 covers the initial dramatic stages of the battle pretty much as Horne did, with the emphasis on the capture of Fort Douamont and Fort Vaux.  Compared to Horne's dramatic prose, Brown is sparing in detail and seems intent to invoke a somber pathos.  However, Brown does a wonderful job weaving together eyewitness accounts from both sides that put the battle into a better human context than Horne delivered.  Whereas Horne focused on dramatic individuals at dramatic moments, in Brown's version of Verdun we read more about the fears of ordinary men expecting to be blasted into bloody pulp at any moment.  One could even say that there are no heroes in this account, only victims.<br /> At the mid-point of the book, Brown inserts a considerable amount of fresh material and perspectives on neglected aspects of the battle, such as medical units and civilians.  Of particular interest is the British Urgency Cases Hospital at Revigny, which handled many of the French wounded from Verdun, and which was an early forerunner of modern combat surgical hospitals.  Brown's discussion of the effect of the German bombardment upon the city of Verdun (some spots, like the Cathedral, were almost untouched) and the involvement in the battle of American pilots from the Lafayette squadron are also quite interesting.<br /> One recent American revisionist historian, John Mosier, claims that the Germans won the battle of Verdun.  Brown's book helps to dispute such assertions by demonstrating that the French army did better at Verdun that is frequently portrayed.  Certainly the greatest French success was their ability to sustain their defense by means of a motorized logistic pipeline along the \\"Sacred Way.\\"  Indeed, Brown asks, \\"the success of the Sacred Way raises an important question.  Why did the Germans let it happen?\\"  Brown notes that, \\"the Germans had three squadrons [of aircraft] for bombing, each capable of dropping a 200-pound bomb.  But they used them with little imagination.\\"  Furthermore, \\"not one of the thirty-four bridges in the area was destroyed by bombing...and they never troubled the Sacred Way.\\"  Thus, the German inability to seriously interfere with the French lines of communication was a major mistake.  Brown also notes that while the Germans introduced some tactical innovations at Verdun - like small storm trooper units, flamethrowers and phosgene gas - that most of the ordinary German infantry still attacked in conventional battalion-size masses.<br /> The other major French success at Verdun was their ability to recover lost ground in set-piece battles.  In a one-week period in the fall of 1916, the French recaptured Fort Douamont and Fort Vaux at relatively low cost.  The French army was able to mount these successful attacks after months of bloody attritional fighting, proving that the Germans had failed to achieve their objective of smashing the French fighting spirit.  Brown's conclusions that there were \\"no winners, only victims\\" at Verdun glosses over the importance of the French army's ability to absorb the worst that the Germans could throw at them, and survive to launch counterattacks.ic pipeline along the \\"Sacred Way.\\"  Indeed, Brown asks, \\"the success of the Sacred Way raises an important question.  Why did the Germans let it happen?\\"  Brown notes that, \\"the Germans had three squadrons [of aircraft] for bombing, each capable of dropping a 200-pound bomb.  But they used them with little imagination.\\"  Furthermore, \\"not one of the thirty-four bridges in the area was destroyed by bombing...and they never troubled the Sacred Way.\\"  Thus, the German inability to seriously interfere with the French lines of communication was a major mistake.  Brown also notes that while the Germans introduced some tactical innovations at Verdun - like small storm trooper units, flamethrowers and phosgene gas - that most of the ordinary German infantry still attacked in conventional battalion-size masses.  <br /> The other major French success at Verdun was their ability to recover lost ground in set-piece battles.  In a one-week period in the fall of 1916, the French recaptured Fort Douamont and Fort Vaux at relatively low cost.  The French army was able to mount these successful attacks after months of bloody attritional fighting, proving that the Germans had failed to achieve their objective of smashing the French fighting spirit.  Brown's conclusions that there were \\"no winners, only victims\\" at Verdun glosses over the importance of the French army's ability to absorb the worst that the Germans could throw at them, and survive to launch counterattacks.	2002-11-05
1356530:US	52533596	R2JYF7DVIF5AZQ	0850528666	506149420	Gold Beach - JIG: Jig Sector and  West - June 1944 (Battleground Europe)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Great Addition to D-Day History	Tim Saunders, a British army officer and author of four other Battleground Europe titles, provides a fresh look at the British D-Day landings with his latest volume entitled Gold Beach Jig.  This volume covers the western sector of the British landing on Gold Beach on June 6, 1944, focusing primarily on the operations of the 231st Brigade, and is a vast improvement over the earlier volume in the series that covered the King sector.  Indeed, Saunder's diligent mining of regimental archives and incorporation of eye witness accounts from both sides combine to make this volume a real treat for military historians.  Overall, the book is well written, graphically appealing and historically accurate.<br /> Gold Beach Jig consists of ten historical chapters, beginning with background on the veteran 231st \\"Malta\\" Brigade, the German defenses around Gold and the Channel crossing.  The assault on Jig Beach and the fight for the coastal town of Le Hamel are the core of the book and comprise 48 pages.  The next four chapters cover the fight as it moves inland, including the seizure of Arromanches, the Longues-sur-mer battery and Port-en-Bessin.  The tenth chapter covers the construction and operation of the British Mulberry artificial harbor at Arromanches and offers considerable detail on this often neglected subject.  A final chapter discusses a modern-day tour of the 231st Brigade area of operations around Gold.  A short British order of battle is provided and numerous photographs complement the text.  Certainly the best aspect of this volume are the large number of annotated tactical maps and aerial photo mosaics which allow the reader to follow the tactical dispositions and movements in great detail.<br /> Saunders provides considerable value-added material in this thin volume.  I was particularly surprised about the mention of an Allied beach reconnaissance conducted prior to D-Day.  The British had become concerned about the trafficability of a marshy area next to the beach and according to one British battalion commander, \\"experts were put ashore about three weeks before D-Day to test the beaches.\\"  The \\"Bobbin\\" carpet laying vehicle was quickly adapted to deal with this marshy area.  This is the only mention I have ever heard of Allied troops walking on these beaches prior to the invasion.  Another interesting item is that Gold Beach was not entirely a British affair; one American 155mm artillery battalion was attached to the British 50th Division and landed on Gold on D-Day.  Another interesting incident involves the separate visits of Montgomery and Eisenhower to the 231st Brigade just prior to the invasion; atypically, the British troops booed the bombastic \\"Monty\\" and applauded the plain-speaking \\"Ike.\\"  Saunders also provides interesting detail on the 79th Armored Divisions \\"funnies,\\" including the composition of the six assault teams used on Gold.<br /> Although the British had meticulously planned the assault and had ample firepower support, the landings on Jig Beach did not go smoothly.  Problems began when the prepatory bombardment failed to hit several German batteries, and a single German obsolete 77mm gun proceeded to decimate the assault breaching teams.  The British wisely decided not to launch their DD tanks in the high seas off Gold - unlike the Americans who sank almost all theirs off Omaha - but the tanks landed 40 minutes behind schedule.  Smoke and confusion caused both lead battalions to drift eastward and land off their assigned beaches.  British leader casualties slowed down calls for naval gunfire support.  Once ashore, the British armor got stuck in a massive traffic jam trying to squeeze through the handful of breaches in the German obstacle belt and without armor support, the British infantry advance inland was slowed to a crawl.  Finally, the presence of a company of the high-quality German 352nd Division in Le Hamel held up the British for eight hours.  Saunders concludes that the 231st Brigade was oneof the few Allied units to achieve nearly all their D-Day objectives, but obviously this was not accomplished easily.<br /> After moving off Jig Beach, the 231st Brigade was assigned a myriad of objectives in order to safeguard the western flank of Gold and to link-up with the Americans coming from Omaha Beach.  One of the more challenging objectives was the Longues-sur-mer coastal battery, with four 152mm guns, that posed a real threat to the invasion shipping.  Saunders makes an interesting point about the problems of German inter-service rivalry undermining their defense in Normandy when he quotes a German army officer who says, \\"the battery was under command of the Kriegsmarine [German Navy] until the Allied landing began; as a result, little coordinated fire control planning had taken place.\\"  Amazingly, the battery was effectively suppressed on D-Day by cruiser gunfire alone and then easily captured by ground assault on D+1.<br /> Another interesting chapter covers the attack of the 47th Royal Marine Commando on Port-en-Bessin.  Although the commandos came ashore on Jig Beach two hours after the initial landings, they lost 10% of their men, their commanding officer and most of their equipment to German mines.  Despite this setback and much confusion on the beach, these highly motivated troops acquired new weapons from the dead and wounded from both sides, re-organized their depleted ranks and pressed on to the objective.  Despite the lack of heavy weapons, the commandos still managed to seize the heavily fortified coastal port and even captured two flak ships.  Saunders' description of 47 Commando on D-Day clearly demonstrates what well motivated and well-trained troops can accomplish despite setbacks.s one of the few Allied units to achieve nearly all their D-Day objectives, but obviously this was not accomplished easily.<br /> After moving off Jig Beach, the 231st Brigade was assigned a myriad of objectives in order to safeguard the western flank of Gold and to link-up with the Americans coming from Omaha Beach.  One of the more challenging objectives was the Longues-sur-mer coastal battery, with four 152mm guns, that posed a real threat to the invasion shipping.  Saunders makes an interesting point about the problems of German inter-service rivalry undermining their defense in Normandy when he quotes a German army officer who says, \\"the battery was under command of the Kriegsmarine [German Navy] until the Allied landing began; as a result, little coordinated fire control planning had taken place.\\"  Amazingly, the battery was effectively suppressed on D-Day by cruiser gunfire alone and then easily captured by ground assault on D+1.  <br /> Another interesting chapter covers the attack of the 47th Royal Marine Commando on Port-en-Bessin.  Although the commandos came ashore on Jig Beach two hours after the initial landings, they lost 10% of their men, their commanding officer and most of their equipment to German mines.  Despite this setback and much confusion on the beach, these highly motivated troops acquired new weapons from the dead and wounded from both sides, re-organized their depleted ranks and pressed on to the objective.  Despite the lack of heavy weapons, the commandos still managed to seize the heavily fortified coastal port and even captured two flak ships.  Saunders' description of 47 Commando on D-Day clearly demonstrates what well motivated and well-trained troops can accomplish despite setbacks.	2002-10-31
1363269:US	52533596	R2TMA8Q8V0PBX6	1841764116	272264393	Guilford Courthouse 1781: Lord Cornwallis's Ruinous Victory (Campaign)	Books	3	16	22	N	Y	Decent but Weakened by Exaggerations &amp; Omissions	According to Angus Konstam, author of Osprey's Campaign Series volume 109, the Battle of Guilford Courthouse in 1781, &quot;marked a turning point in the war [the American Revolution].&quot;  Konstam has written an interesting and detailed account of the clash of American General Greene's army with British General Cornwallis' army near an obscure North Carolina courthouse in March 1781.  Konstam's account is decent, but should be given the plethora of secondary and primary sources on this subject. However, readers should be forewarned that this author has a tendency for exaggeration and bizarre interpretations of fact.<br />  Guilford Courthouse 1781 begins with a fairly lengthy 20-page introductory section that outlines the background to the campaign.  The standard sections on opposing commanders and opposing armies total 14 pages and offer a decent synopsis of the two armies that fought at Guilford Courthouse.  The campaign narrative itself is divided into two separate chapters: a 13-page chapter on the maneuvers of both armies in the weeks prior to the battle and a 34-page chapter on the battle itself.  The author concludes with a short aftermath section, notes on the battlefield today and a bibliography.  The campaign narrative is supported by five 2-D maps (the war in the south in 1780-1, the race to the Dan River, the road to Guilford Courthouse, the battle at Weitzel's Mill, and the initial deployments at Guilford) and three 3-D &quot;Bird's Eye View&quot; maps (one for the British attack on each of the three American defensive lines at Guilford Courthouse).  There are also three excellent battle scenes depicting actions at each of the three lines.  Overall, the graphic quality of this volume is quite good.<br />  There are a number of important omissions in Konstam's campaign narrative.  First, the author provides no breakdown on casualties for either side.  A quick search on the internet provided this information, in the form of the post-battle casualty reports from Greene and Cornwallis, broken down by individual units.  This is a significant omission, particularly in a battle that involved less than 7,000 combatants.  Second, the American order of battles appears to be inaccurate; Konstam does not list the Delaware Battalion or North Carolina militia cavalry, although they both suffered casualties in the battle and are mentioned in other sources.  These flaws may seem minor, but seem to indicate a slap-dash approach to the subject.<br />  The author also betrays an annoying tendency for exaggeration throughout the text.  During the early phase of the Battle of Guilford Courthouse, Konstam uses a contemporary source which claimed that after the first volley from the North Carolina militia that, &quot;one half of the [British] Highlanders dropped on that spot.&quot;  Yet if one bothers to look up the casualty data for the British 2/71st Highlanders - data the author neglected to include - one can see that this battalion suffered only 29% casualties during the entire battle, not 50%.  Konstam then exaggerates, claiming that when the Highlanders returned fire, &quot;great gaps were blown in the American line.&quot;  Again, the casualty data indicates that the North Carolina militia suffered only 11 casualties out of about 1,000 men during the battle, so the reader might question if losing one man out of every 100 constitutes &quot;great gaps.&quot;  Instead, the North Carolinians ran as fast as they could, which is why so few were hit.  Indeed, the missing casualty data would demonstrate just how badly the American militia performed at Guilford Courthouse: 11 of the 18 militia deaths occurred in one of the Virginia brigades, meaning that the other three ran after suffering only 1-2% casualties.  The author also clearly exaggerates the strategic significance of the battle when he claims that, &quot;by failing to defeat Nathaniel Greene's army, Cornwallis had committed a strategic error which cost Britain the very southern colonies his men fought so hard to keep.&quot;  The turning point in the American Revolution occurred with the victory at Saratoga in 1777 and subsequent French intervention, not due to some indecisive clash in the backwoods of North Carolina.  It is also a non-sequitor to argue that the Battle of Guilford Courthouse inevitably led to Cornwallis' surrender at Yorktown seven months later, since Cornwallis had many options that might have changed the result.  Konstam's contention that Guilford Courthouse was a British victory is equally exaggerated, if not absurd.  If the British won the battle, why did they abandon their wounded and retreat 200 miles to coast!  All six British battalions suffered over 20% casualties and Cornwallis' army had become almost combat ineffective.  Guilford Courthouse was truly indecisive; neither side accomplished their mission and both armies retreated.<br />  A little military analysis might also have gone a long way in this volume.  Konstam mentions that Greene's troops established defensive positions after the battle to inhibit a British pursuit, which raises the question - why didn't Greene establish obstacles or defensive positions prior to the battle?  Greene occupied the battlefield the night prior and had at least 12 hours to prepare, along with ample manpower and certainly plenty of trees.  Readers should recall that the Massachusetts militiamen were able to construct a sturdy redoubt atop Breed's Hill in 1775 that cost the British attackers dearly.  Nor is there much analysis of the American battle plan.  Why did Greene fail to form a reserve, despite his 2-1 numerical superiority?  Cornwallis' did have a small reserve - only about 18% of his army - but he used it to influence the battle at critical moments.  Greene wasted half his cavalry (Lee's) by deploying it in wooded terrain on the flank, when it could have been massed to provide a mobile reserve.  Finally, Greene negated his 2-1 numerical superiority by placing his troops in three lines that were not mutually supporting or even visible to each other, thus allowing Cornwallis to attack each line sequentially and defeat it.ritain the very southern colonies his men fought so hard to keep.&quot;  The turning point in the American Revolution occurred with the victory at Saratoga in 1777 and subsequent French intervention, not due to some indecisive clash in the backwoods of North Carolina.  It is also a non-sequitor to argue that the Battle of Guilford Courthouse inevitably led to Cornwallis' surrender at Yorktown seven months later, since Cornwallis had many options that might have changed the result.  Konstam's contention that Guilford Courthouse was a British victory is equally exaggerated, if not absurd.  If the British won the battle, why did they abandon their wounded and retreat 200 miles to coast!  All six British battalions suffered over 20% casualties and Cornwallis' army had become almost combat ineffective.  Guilford Courthouse was truly indecisive; neither side accomplished their mission and both armies retreated.  <br />       A little military analysis might also have gone a long way in this volume.  Konstam mentions that Greene's troops established defensive positions after the battle to inhibit a British pursuit, which raises the question - why didn't Greene establish obstacles or defensive positions prior to the battle?  Greene occupied the battlefield the night prior and had at least 12 hours to prepare, along with ample manpower and certainly plenty of trees.  Readers should recall that the Massachusetts militiamen were able to construct a sturdy redoubt atop Breed's Hill in 1775 that cost the British attackers dearly.  Nor is there much analysis of the American battle plan.  Why did Greene fail to form a reserve, despite his 2-1 numerical superiority?  Cornwallis' did have a small reserve - only about 18% of his army - but he used it to influence the battle at critical moments.  Greene wasted half his cavalry (Lee's) by deploying it in wooded terrain on the flank, when it could have been massed to provide a mobile reserve.  Finally, Greene negated his 2-1 numerical superiority by placing his troops in three lines that were not mutually supporting or even visible to each other, thus allowing Cornwallis to attack each line sequentially and defeat it.	2002-10-25
1366003:US	52533596	R34Q6SO20UBB7I	1841764469	876898998	The Russo-Japanese War 1904-1905	Books	4	70	71	N	Y	A Good Summary of a Neglected War	Despite having been in the military history business for over three decades and producing more than 500 titles, Osprey Publishing had been noticeably lacking in its coverage of the seminal Russo-Japanese War of 1904-1905.  Indeed, Osprey has spent considerable ink covering and re-covering marketable but historically insignificant conflicts like the Zulu War of 1879.  Finally, Osprey has decided to cover this important but heretofore neglected war in Geoffrey Jukes' latest volume in the Essential History Series.  In short, this is a very good summary of the conflict.  Jukes is primarily a Second World War historian but he is creditably able to cover this subject, although with more depth on the Russian side than the Japanese side.<br /> The Russo-Japanese War 1904-1905 begins with a short introduction, a chronology, and a section on the background to the war.  The one-and-a-half-page section on opposing sides is totally inadequate and does nothing to demonstrate the strengths and weaknesses of the Russian and Japanese military forces.  The outbreak of the war is covered in only four paragraphs, which is also ridiculously short (if size constraint is such an issue in Osprey volumes, why is there so much blank white space in this volume - shouldn't pages be filled with text or information rather than nothing?).  Despite the author's inauspicious beginning, the 52-page campaign narrative is solid and professional.  There are a total of ten maps in this volume: the theater of war, the Battles of the Yalu River, Nanshan, Te-Li Ssu Fanggou, Liaoyang, Sha-Ho, and Mukden, the siege of Port Arthur, the voyage of the Russian Baltic Fleet and the Battle of Tsushima. The artwork and photographs that accompany the text are mostly mediocre, but do add slightly to the narrative.  The final sections covering portraits of a soldier, Russian domestic turmoil, the impact on neutral China and the final diplomatic solution to the war are modestly successful in their intended purposes.  Jukes at least bothers to list casualty figures for each side, but there is no mention of the economic impact. Jukes continues his trademark neglect of bibliographical material by listing only eight sources at the end (against the typical 20 source or so listed in most other volumes of this series).  Furthermore, it appears that Jukes has based much of this volume on the Warner's Tide at Sunrise book, without conducting any new research of his own.<br /> The Russo-Japanese War was an important conflict because it was the first major war of the 20th Century and the first defeat of a European power by an Asian one.  Although many precursors of First World War military technology - such as machineguns, quick-firing guns and barbed wire - were used in battle in Manchuria, the war was not decided by technology.  Indeed, both sides had roughly equal access to the same types of weapons.  Certainly indecisive leadership and poor command control were a major weakness of the Russian side, particularly against the aggressive Japanese.  However, it would be too superficial to claim that the Russians were mostly cowardly idiots and the Japanese were bold geniuses.  Jukes alludes to the underlying cause behind Russian military weaknesses: illiteracy and inadequate education.  Whereas Japanese conscripts were 100% literate and capable of operating modern equipment, only about 20% of Russian soldiers and sailors could read or write.  Imperial Russia may have been larger in terms of land and population, but these potential strengths were greatly diluted by widespread ignorance and unfamiliarity with modern technology.  This phenomenon of illiteracy undermining military effectiveness also appeared in the 1991 Persian Gulf War, where fewer than 50% of Iraqi soldiers were literate.<br /> Jukes registers several other interesting points about the war, such as the exceptionally good treatment afforded to prisoners of war by both sides.  Unlike the Second World War, Japan had not yet had decades of Bushido propaganda to alter their attitudes toward defeated foes.  Another interesting difference in the times was that much of the European press applauded the Japanese surprise attack on Port Arthur without a declaration of war.  How different from 36 years later when Japan did the same thing at Pearl Harbor!  The Japanese also benefited from a superb military intelligence infrastructure that provided them with excellent information about enemy strength and intentions, while the Russians suffered from lack of information about their foe.  Again, this was a major difference from the Second World War, where Japanese intelligence was generally mediocre but the Russians had developed a superb spy organization (obviously one of the lessons that Russia did take to heart).  Japan also fought with a more realistic sense of the odds against it in the Russo-Japanese War and was eager to make gains and seek peace before attrition robbed them of their limited resources; in the Second World War the Japanese failed to make realistic cost-benefit calculations and based too much of their strategy on fantasies.  Finally, Jukes also points out some of the few Russian successes, like the raids of the cruiser squadron from Vladivostok and Colonel Tretyakov's dogged defense at Port Arthur.  The Russians were not all clowns and one wonders how their cause might have fared if the Tsarist regime could have rewarded combat merit with promotion.  Indeed, the promotion of court sycophants over real fighting men was a serious weakness that could be attributed to Nicholas II.had decades of Bushido propaganda to alter their attitudes toward defeated foes.  Another interesting difference in the times was that much of the European press applauded the Japanese surprise attack on Port Arthur without a declaration of war.  How different from 36 years later when Japan did the same thing at Pearl Harbor!  The Japanese also benefited from a superb military intelligence infrastructure that provided them with excellent information about enemy strength and intentions, while the Russians suffered from lack of information about their foe.  Again, this was a major difference from the Second World War, where Japanese intelligence was generally mediocre but the Russians had developed a superb spy organization (obviously one of the lessons that Russia did take to heart).  Japan also fought with a more realistic sense of the odds against it in the Russo-Japanese War and was eager to make gains and seek peace before attrition robbed them of their limited resources; in the Second World War the Japanese failed to make realistic cost-benefit calculations and based too much of their strategy on fantasies.  Finally, Jukes also points out some of the few Russian successes, like the raids of the cruiser squadron from Vladivostok and Colonel Tretyakov's dogged defense at Port Arthur.  The Russians were not all clowns and one wonders how their cause might have fared if the Tsarist regime could have rewarded combat merit with promotion.  Indeed, the promotion of court sycophants over real fighting men was a serious weakness that could be attributed to Nicholas II.	2002-10-23
1366364:US	52533596	R25I6OY4UGO40B	0850526329	325926938	Cambrai: The Right Hook: Hindenburg Line (Battleground Europe)	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Something of a Disappointment	Cambrai: The Right Hook, another in the Battleground Europe series, is something of a disappointment.  First, as the title implies, the volume only covers the eastern half of the Battle of Cambrai.  Instead of a comprehensive treatment of the first major tank assault of the First World War, the reader instead is only presented with the operations of three of the six British divisions used in the attack.  Second, the maps used to depict the battle start off well, with a detailed and annotated 1:20,000 scale map for each British division's attack on 20 November 1917. Unfortunately, the maps used to depict the German counterattack and subsequent actions are difficult to follow.  Third, fully one-third of the book is devoted to the tour guide section and less than 30 pages are spent detailing the British attack.  Fourth, the authors waste another 18 pages discussing the New Zealand Division attack over the same terrain almost a year later in 1918.  Finally, the authors' approach to this subject is sloppy and uneven, with great detail provided in some areas (e.g. Victoria Cross winners) and less than adequate detail in other areas (e.g. tanks, casualties, order of battle). Certainly the most disappointed readers will be armor officers or enthusiasts, since the authors spend very little effort discussing the combat employment of this new weapon system.<br /> Cambrai: The Right Hook consists of five historical chapters, beginning with the background to the battle, the First Day of the Battle of Cambrai, the period 21-27 November 1917, the German Counteroffensive and the New Zealand Division attack in October 1918.  A sixth chapter covers five different tour routes of the battle area.  Note that much historical commentary on the battle is also provided in the tour section, which makes for disjointed reading in attempting to follow specific actions.  On the other hand, the photographs are decent and effectively demonstrate the open nature of the Cambrai battlefield and why this area was chosen for a tank assault.  The authors provide three succinct orders of battle for the three assaulting British divisions but this information is incomplete in regard to tanks employed in this sector and fails to mention any of the supporting artillery or corps units.  No German OB data is ever presented and the authors fail to mention that the British were attacking the German 2nd Army under General von der Marwitz.  It might have also been useful to see what type of force ratios the attacking British had in this sector and more detail on the Hindenburg Line defenses.  Instead, the authors' preference to include the section on the New Zealand Division action in 1918 appears a flagrant waste of narrative space.<br /> Despite these flaws, Cambrai: the Right Hook does provide some historical value in the areas that the author's have chosen to emphasize.  The role of British Brigadier General Elles, commander of the tank corps, is often ignored and his leading the assault in a headquarters tank was remarkable.  Interestingly, Elles argued for massing the tanks into a few spearheads but lost the argument to the predominant infantry generals who wanted the tanks spread evenly across the units.  This doctrinal argument was to continue for decades after Cambrai.  The British tank-infantry team was able to penetrate the first two defensive belts of the Hindenburg Line with light casualties in less than six hours, but the attack started to founder when the lead elements hit the German third belt sited behind the St. Quentin Canal.  Essentially, the British attack reached its culminating point due to a failure to adequately plan for a canal-bridging effort (the tanks could not get across the canal's few damaged bridges) and the infantry could not advance without tanks.  It is also apparent in these pages that the British Army in late 1917 still retained an aggressive combat spirit.  The authors provide details on many of the Victoria Cross winners, like CaptainRichard Wain of the tank corps, who, \\"his tank damaged by a direct hit, his crew killed or wounded and despite being severely wounded himself, dismounted and took a Lewis gun, charged an enemy machine gun nest of five Maxim guns.  He captured it and caused the remaining Germans to flee to the rear.\\"  Despite efforts of recent trash revisionist historians to blacken the reputation of the British Army, it is clear that the British soldier in November 1917 was still capable of aggressive action on the battlefield.  Unfortunately, the German soldier was also still capable of aggressive action and the German counterattack sent the depleted British divisions reeling.  Cambrai was an attack conducted on the cheap by a British Army that lacked adequate manpower reserves after Third Ypres and it was this lack of manpower reserves that ultimately undermined the first successful large-scale use of tanks.  Thus, Cambrai demonstrates that a new weapon system employed en masse could work, but it still has to function as part of a combined arms team and by November 1917 the British were weak in infantry.<br /> Cambrai: The Right Hook also helps to demonstrate the enduring truthfulness of Napoleon's dictum that in war, the material is to the moral as three is to one.  The three assaulting British divisions in III Corps had 36 infantry battalions supported by about 150 tanks, which equates to only about one tank platoon for each infantry battalion.  After six hours of fighting at least half the tanks were out of action, reducing their support to a token level.  In a material sense, the tanks were few in number but psychologically they acted as a great combat multiplier for the hard-used British infantry and gave them the confidence to assault fortified trench lines. Thus, it was not British tanks that broke the Hindenburg Line but the British combined arms team.n Richard Wain of the tank corps, who, \\"his tank damaged by a direct hit, his crew killed or wounded and despite being severely wounded himself, dismounted and took a Lewis gun, charged an enemy machine gun nest of five Maxim guns.  He captured it and caused the remaining Germans to flee to the rear.\\"  Despite efforts of recent trash revisionist historians to blacken the reputation of the British Army, it is clear that the British soldier in November 1917 was still capable of aggressive action on the battlefield.  Unfortunately, the German soldier was also still capable of aggressive action and the German counterattack sent the depleted British divisions reeling.  Cambrai was an attack conducted on the cheap by a British Army that lacked adequate manpower reserves after Third Ypres and it was this lack of manpower reserves that ultimately undermined the first successful large-scale use of tanks.  Thus, Cambrai demonstrates that a new weapon system employed en masse could work, but it still has to function as part of a combined arms team and by November 1917 the British were weak in infantry.  <br /> Cambrai: The Right Hook also helps to demonstrate the enduring truthfulness of Napoleon's dictum that in war, the material is to the moral as three is to one.  The three assaulting British divisions in III Corps had 36 infantry battalions supported by about 150 tanks, which equates to only about one tank platoon for each infantry battalion.  After six hours of fighting at least half the tanks were out of action, reducing their support to a token level.  In a material sense, the tanks were few in number but psychologically they acted as a great combat multiplier for the hard-used British infantry and gave them the confidence to assault fortified trench lines. Thus, it was not British tanks that broke the Hindenburg Line but the British combined arms team.	2002-10-23
1374845:US	52533596	R1E6WMES9QT1SA	1557531455	742123921	Army of Francis Joseph	Books	4	23	24	N	Y	Anatomy of a Dynastic Army	The Army of Francis Joseph is a scholarly examination of the Hapsburg (Austrian) army during the period 1815-1918.  This army was primarily designed to safeguard the stability of the Hapsburg Dynasty and during this period, the Dynasty was primarily reflected in the 68-year reign of the Emperor Francis Joseph.  Gunther E. Rothenberg, a professor at Purdue University, is an acknowledged expert on the Austrian military and he has unearthed a wealth of information from Austrian archives about this heretofore-neglected army.  Furthermore, the examination of Austria-Hungary's security situation from 1867-1914 is critical in understanding much of the political and military background to the First World War.  Rothenberg concludes that in the end, while the Hapsburg army was never among the best armies in Europe, it fought hard and did it's professional duty to the dynasty despite difficult circumstances.<br /> The Army of Francis Joseph consists of fourteen chapters and an epilogue.  The author also provides a detailed list of sources and endnotes.  However, the lack of any maps, charts or photographs does not make this a \\"user-friendly\\" book.  For example, while the author provides considerable data in the text on important items like Austrian military budgets, army strengths, and ethnic composition of the military, he does not compile this information into tables or charts.  Thus if the reader wants to determine how Austrian military spending changed over the 19th Century or the army demographics changed, one must be prepared to flip a great many pages and keep a notepad handy. While the author's intent was an organizational study rather than a campaign history, a few maps of the main campaign areas would have been appreciated.  Professor Rothenberg went to a great deal of effort to assemble this fine study, but it is unfortunately not well packaged.  Furthermore, the middle part of the book - which mostly concerns Hungarian nationalist agitation and the establishment of the Dual Monarchy - is extremely tedious and slow.  Essentially, this book is not for novices and should only be read by someone with considerable background and interest in this period.  That being said, this book is also indispensable for understanding Austrian participation in the First World War.<br /> Reading Rothenberg's book, it is hard to feel sorry that the Hapsburg Dynasty and its army were consigned to the dustbin of history.  The Army High Command was typically over-age and almost suicidal in its resistance to doctrinal or technological innovation.  The leadership resisted the creation of an effective general staff organization despite being taught hard lessons by the Prussian General Staff in the disastrous Six Weeks War of 1866.  New technologies, such as breech-loading rifles, modern artillery, and aircraft were consistently denied funds and approval.  In one instance, the aged Emperor Francis Joseph stated that armored vehicles would never have any military value after a prototype spooked his horse at a demonstration.  Indeed, despite the well-known construction of a handful of super-heavy artillery pieces by the Skoda firm, the Hapsburg army never relied on technological or doctrinal innovation for its combat power.  Instead, the Hapsburg leadership maintained an antiquated fixation on bayonet attacks and massed cavalry charges up to the start of the First World War.  The emphasis on physical bravery did produce a tough army that was able to endure a steady diet of defeats in most of its wars, but the Hapsburg army had very few victories to its credit during this period.<br /> Rothenberg's book also sheds much light on neglected aspects of 19th Century military history, such as the suppression of the Revolutions of 1848, which hit Austria hard and required nearly two years to fully subdue.  The Austrian occupation of Bosnia in 1878 was a major operation that cost the Hapsburg army over 5,000 casualties.  Austrian leaders like General Conrad, CrownPrince Rudolf and the Archduke Francis Ferdinand also appear in much greater detail in these pages compared to standard accounts.  After reviewing the combination of bigotry, idiocy and reactionary attitudes in Francis Ferdinand, few readers will mourn his assassination.  Conrad, the Austrian Chief of Staff, is also cut down to size in this account; on the one hand, he pressed for reforms, but on the other hand his actual decisions resulted in one catastrophe after another.<br /> The fate of the Hapsburg Dynasty was inherently tied up with the strength of its army, and this army steadily deteriorated in relation to the other great powers during the last half of the 19th Century.  Rothenberg cites two primary factors for this military decline: limited budgets and an inability to fully utilize the empire's manpower resources.  During the entire period 1870-1914, Austria-Hungary was spending less than half the amount on defense that the other great powers were spending; Rothenberg attributes this partly to an anemic economy, partly to parsimony by a divided legislature but primarily due to the fact that the army was intended for regime security.  Indeed, during much of this period the Hapsburgs were more focused on external security missions than matching foreign enemies.  Furthermore, the nationalities problem - particularly with the Hungarians - consistently undermined the effectiveness of the Hapsburg army.  One of the few advantages that the Hapsburg Empire enjoyed - a large and growing population - was negated by limited conscription and lack of an effective reserve system.<br /> Given the inherent weaknesses in the Hapsburg military system, it is a wonder that Austria-Hungary pursued such aggressive policies in the decades prior to the First World War. The empire was constantly confronted with real or imagined threats of war with Italy, Russia and Serbia after 1870 and Austrian leaders frequently beat the drum for pre-emptive attacks.  Germany was enticed into supporting aggressive Austrian Balkan policies well before 1914 and this only further emboldened the regime.  Essentially, Rothenberg asserts that the monarchy's leadership sensed that the dynasty's days were numbered and sought to utilize their dwindling military resources to stave off disintegration, although it was this preference for active measures that brought about the conditions for a general European war.Crown Prince Rudolf and the Archduke Francis Ferdinand also appear in much greater detail in these pages compared to standard accounts.  After reviewing the combination of bigotry, idiocy and reactionary attitudes in Francis Ferdinand, few readers will mourn his assassination.  Conrad, the Austrian Chief of Staff, is also cut down to size in this account; on the one hand, he pressed for reforms, but on the other hand his actual decisions resulted in one catastrophe after another.  <br /> The fate of the Hapsburg Dynasty was inherently tied up with the strength of its army, and this army steadily deteriorated in relation to the other great powers during the last half of the 19th Century.  Rothenberg cites two primary factors for this military decline: limited budgets and an inability to fully utilize the empire's manpower resources.  During the entire period 1870-1914, Austria-Hungary was spending less than half the amount on defense that the other great powers were spending; Rothenberg attributes this partly to an anemic economy, partly to parsimony by a divided legislature but primarily due to the fact that the army was intended for regime security.  Indeed, during much of this period the Hapsburgs were more focused on external security missions than matching foreign enemies.  Furthermore, the nationalities problem - particularly with the Hungarians - consistently undermined the effectiveness of the Hapsburg army.   One of the few advantages that the Hapsburg Empire enjoyed - a large and growing population - was negated by limited conscription and lack of an effective reserve system.  <br /> Given the inherent weaknesses in the Hapsburg military system, it is a wonder that Austria-Hungary pursued such aggressive policies in the decades prior to the First World War. The empire was constantly confronted with real or imagined threats of war with Italy, Russia and Serbia after 1870 and Austrian leaders frequently beat the drum for pre-emptive attacks.  Germany was enticed into supporting aggressive Austrian Balkan policies well before 1914 and this only further emboldened the regime.  Essentially, Rothenberg asserts that the monarchy's leadership sensed that the dynasty's days were numbered and sought to utilize their dwindling military resources to stave off disintegration, although it was this preference for active measures that brought about the conditions for a general European war.	2002-10-16
1381305:US	52533596	R13VZTPBJE2VVO	0752417991	452363405	The German Offensive of 1918	Books	3	13	14	N	Y	A Tedious but Comprehensive Account	Martin Kitchen's The German Offensives of 1918 is a tedious but comprehensive account of the final, desperate German efforts to achieve a military victory in the First World War before the American Expeditionary Force arrived in strength.  The main value of this book is that it covers all the German offensives from March-July 1918; most accounts only cover Operation \\"Michael\\" in March 1918 and the US action at Belleau Wood.  Kitchen's account fills in the gaps between the beginning of the offensives and the final German realization that they had lost the initiative.  On the negative side, a lack of adequate maps, a plodding writing style and poor editing weaken this book. Nevertheless, the German Offensives of 1918 is a valuable addition to a First World War library.<br /> The German Offensives of 1918 consists of thirteen chapters, beginning with a summary of the strategic situation on the Western Front from February 1917 to February 1918.  This introductory chapter is a near-disaster and spends several pages mired in discussing obscure German labor union unrest before awkwardly veering back toward a military discussion of the Western Front.  While the authors hits the highlights of Germany's strategic position in the winter of 1917-1918, he really only scratches the surface concerning the doctrinal transformation that made the 1918 offensives possible.  The second chapter, discussing the plans for the offensives, is useful for illustrating the diverse opinions in the Army High Command (OHL) about the paths to victory, but taxes the reader's patience.  Opinion in the OHL was split over whether Germany should mount one large offensive, or several smaller attacks, or finish off Italy or even to stay on the defensive and just defeat the inevitable Allied attacks.  Kitchen has written other books on the OHL and this is clearly where he is comfortable, but it makes for an overly high level discussion of the campaign where a few decision-makers like Ludendorff and Hindenburg appear in individual dramatic roles but the vast majority involved are cast as ciphers.  The remaining chapters cover each of the nine German offensives and the British counterattack at Amiens on 8 August 1918.  The author provides only a terse order of battle for the Germans on 21 March 1918, but does not list even corps or divisions.  The maps provided are also totally inadequate, with virtually no detail concerning dispositions or movements.  Given these weaknesses, this book is difficult to use for a campaign study.<br /> Kitchen's conclusion is that Ludendorff was able to utilize a formula for tactical breakthroughs to end the trench deadlock, but that he was unable to translate these local successes into an operational level victory.  Essentially, Ludendorff allowed his storm troopers to take the path of least resistance that provided for dramatic advances, but failed to seize key towns like Amiens, Arras or Reims.  Germany's new doctrine used in the offensives of 1918 succeeded in integrating firepower and maneuver, but was undermined by a \\"chronic lack of manpower and a desperate shortage of horses and motor vehicles.\\"  Furthermore, the OHL's refusal to consider a compromise peace severed the link between the offensives and the pursuit of Germany's greater political objectives.  Kitchen writes that, \\"they [the OHL] were blinded by their conviction that the alternatives facing Germany were world power or extinction.\\"  Ultimately, the failure of the offensives was due to, \\"the overbearing hubris of a military elite that refused to abandon its fantastic ambitions and denied the bitter fact that for all their professional skill and tactical brilliance their ingenuous plans had come to nothing.\\"<br /> The German offensives did score two major accomplishments: the rout of the British 5th Army and storming the French-held Chemin des Dames ridgelines.  Both these actions resulted in heavy Allied manpower losses and significant German advances, yet the Germans failed to capture any significant communication hubs or to split the Anglo-French front.  German losses were also very heavy and more difficult to replace.  Kitchen fails to appreciate the great assistance provided by fog and mist to the German infiltration tactics, but he is closer to the mark in his evaluation of tanks.  In Kitchen's view, tanks allowed the Allies to launch counterattacks without assembling so much artillery, but they were not decisive in themselves.  On the other hand, Allied air supremacy was a significant impediment to German freedom of maneuver on the battlefield.<br /> Kitchen's book also serves to expose the base falsehoods presented in the recent revisionist account, The Myth of the Great War by John Mosier, which claims that it was the minor American action at Belleau Wood that stopped the German offensives and thereby turned the tide of war.  Kitchen account clearly indicates that the German offensives had reached their culminating point weeks before Belleau Wood and that the final attacks were futile gestures born of frustration to break the Anglo-French front.  Indeed, the Americans played no part at either Arras or Reims, where the British and French stopped the German offensives dead in their tracks.  Even as far as the so-called Second Battle of the Marne, it is clear that the French counterattack at Soissons and their tenacious defense of Reims far out-shadowed the efforts of the solitary US division in ending the final German offensive.  Furthermore, Kitchen clearly details the decline of the German army's strength and morale, all of which began well before the Americans arrived in strength at the front.  In fact, Kitchen notes that the OHL promised that the U-Boat offensive of 1917 would win the war but this failed, and then promised that the 1918 offensives would win the war but these also failed.  In promising victory twice to a war-weary nation and then failing to deliver, the OHL fatally compromised German morale.failed to capture any significant communication hubs or to split the Anglo-French front.  German losses were also very heavy and more difficult to replace.  Kitchen fails to appreciate the great assistance provided by fog and mist to the German infiltration tactics, but he is closer to the mark in his evaluation of tanks.  In Kitchen's view, tanks allowed the Allies to launch counterattacks without assembling so much artillery, but they were not decisive in themselves.  On the other hand, Allied air supremacy was a significant impediment to German freedom of maneuver on the battlefield.   <br /> Kitchen's book also serves to expose the base falsehoods presented in the recent revisionist account, The Myth of the Great War by John Mosier, which claims that it was the minor American action at Belleau Wood that stopped the German offensives and thereby turned the tide of war.  Kitchen account clearly indicates that the German offensives had reached their culminating point weeks before Belleau Wood and that the final attacks were futile gestures born of frustration to break the Anglo-French front.  Indeed, the Americans played no part at either Arras or Reims, where the British and French stopped the German offensives dead in their tracks.  Even as far as the so-called Second Battle of the Marne, it is clear that the French counterattack at Soissons and their tenacious defense of Reims far out-shadowed the efforts of the solitary US division in ending the final German offensive.  Furthermore, Kitchen clearly details the decline of the German army's strength and morale, all of which began well before the Americans arrived in strength at the front.  In fact, Kitchen notes that the OHL promised that the U-Boat offensive of 1917 would win the war but this failed, and then promised that the 1918 offensives would win the war but these also failed.  In promising victory twice to a war-weary nation and then failing to deliver, the OHL fatally compromised German morale.	2002-10-10
1387887:US	52533596	R3UV13DC1CQR47	1841764450	352082874	German E-boats 1939–45 (New Vanguard)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Good Account on Neglected Subject	Most accounts of the German Navy in the Second World War focus on either the U-Boat arm or the occasional sorties of celebrity warships such as the Bismarck or Scharnhorst.  However, very little has been written about the small surface warships of the Kriegsmarine that fought throughout the war and in many theaters.  This Osprey Vanguard Edition on E-Boats (or the German S-Boats), provides a good summary of the equipment and operations of the German motor torpedo boats in the Second World War.<br /> German E-Boats consists of short sections on the development of fast motorboats in the German Navy, a general description of the E-Boats, armament, power plant, color schemes, radar, organization of the E-Boat squadrons, and operational use. Technologically, the E-Boats suffered from lack or radar and this deficiency would reduce their effectiveness by 1943.  The book includes seven color plates: four depicting various E-Boat configurations, two action scenes and one cutaway diagram.<br /> The author spends almost fifteen pages detailing E-Boat operations in the North Sea, the Channel, the Baltic, the Black Sea and the Mediterranean.  Several points are interesting.  First, the E-Boats could inflict substantial damage and sank or crippled a surprising number of enemy destroyers.  Second, the E-Boats were capable of massed attacks on convoys with up to 20-30 boats involved in one action.  Third, the Germans lost a significant number of E-Boats in accidents.  Fourth, despite complete Allied air superiority, the Germans were still able to conduct E-Boat attacks on coastal convoys as late as April 1945 (given the complete suppression of the U-Boat arm by this point, the ability of E-Boats to score successes in 1945 is phenomenal). Although the author's narrative is succinct, he does mention individual E-Boat successes and losses.<br /> There are a few deficiencies in the volume, but given the size constraints of the series, understandable.  The author does not discuss E-Boat tactics in any detail, and it would have been worthwhile to mention exactly how 10-20 E-Boats would attack a convoy (how was command and control accomplished?  Was it a decentralized or centralized method of attack? How did E-Boats deal with convoy escorts?).  There is also no final tally of how many E-Boats were built, how many were lost and what their total successes were in terms of tonnage sunk.  Finally, it would also have been useful for the author to discuss E-Boat construction (where? How long? How much did they cost?) and what kind of resource trade-offs the Kriegsmarine made in regard to E-Boats, U-Boats and the surface fleet.  Nevertheless, this account sheds further light on this neglected aspect of the Second World War.E-Boat tactics in any detail, and it would have been worthwhile to mention exactly how 10-20 E-Boats would attack a convoy (how was command and control accomplished?  Was it a decentralized or centralized method of attack? How did E-Boats deal with convoy escorts?).  There is also no final tally of how many E-Boats were built, how many were lost and what their total successes were in terms of tonnage sunk.  Finally, it would also have been useful for the author to discuss E-Boat construction (where? How long? How much did they cost?) and what kind of resource trade-offs the Kriegsmarine made in regard to E-Boats, U-Boats and the surface fleet.  Nevertheless, this account sheds further light on this neglected aspect of the Second World War.	2002-10-04
1388513:US	52533596	R1T9LZ453XW7J4	1841765112	226229256	Isandlwana 1879: The great Zulu victory (Campaign)	Books	3	22	26	N	N	Once More, Over the Same Ground	In 1992, Osprey's Campaign Series #14 entitled Zulu War 1879 by Ian Knight and Ian Castle, covered the dramatic Battle of Isandlwana.  Ten years later, Ian Knight thought it would be a good idea to cover virtually the same ground in the new Osprey Campaign Series #111, entitled Isandlwana 1879.  Granted, the focus is narrower than in the earlier volume and the graphic quality of the maps is superior, but this book essentially covers much of the same ground that the first book did.  While the original title only spent 30% of its length on the Battle of Isandlwana, this new volume spends 55%.  Overall, Isandlwana 1879 is a decent if not very original summary of that British military disaster, but it certainly lacks any real value-added quality over the original.<br /> Isandlwana 1879 begins in standard Osprey format with the usual short sections on origins of the conflict, a campaign chronology, opposing commanders, opposing armies, and opening moves.  Readers will certainly be impressed with the author's in-depth knowledge of Zulu leaders and units, but might have benefited from a short pronunciation guide on how to handle names like \\"iNgobamakhosi\\" or \\"uKhandempemvu\\" or just what the heck these names mean.  At times, Knight seems to have the zealot's assumption that everyone in conversant in African tribal terms and hence, further clarification is unnecessary.  Overall, these sections get the job done but in somewhat boilerplate fashion, as if Knight merely dusted off material from his other books.  Readers familiar with the classic, \\"Washing of the Spears,\\" will doubt that Knight is making a real effort to be incisive.  The volume includes six 2-D maps (the war in Zululand, the attack on Sihayo's Homestead, Isandlwana Camp, initial dispositions, the British collapse, Chelmsford's movements and the British withdrawals), three 3-D \\"Bird's Eye View\\" maps (British movements around Isandlwana, climax of the battle and the British collapse) and three battle scenes (Durnford's auxiliaries stumble on the Zulu army, the British collapse and the final stages of the battle).<br /> Knight notes that none of the Zulu commanders had any experience fighting British regulars and that, \\"a practical ignorance of the destructive potential of the modern weapons they [the British] possessed, had led to a dangerous over-confidence at the middle and lower levels of command.\\"  On the other hand, the British commander Lord Chelmsford was influenced by preconceptions gained in previous frontier warfare in Africa.  Knight notes that in Chelmsford's earlier campaign against the Xhosa tribe that he, \\"faced only an elusive foe who showed a marked reluctance to engage in decisive combat.\\"  This sounds remarkably like the preconceived tactical mindset that influenced Custer three years earlier at the Little Bighorn.  Yet if both sides were over-confident and didn't appreciate their enemy's strengths - as Knight claims - why was Isandlwana such a lop-sided battle?<br /> The battle narrative comprises the bulk of the book and it also gets the job done, but with much effort to address the reasons for the British defeat.  While Knight makes it clear that British pre-battle reconnaissance was a bit sloppy and based on too many false assumptions, he fails to address issues like faulty British tactical dispositions or ammunition resupply problems.  Based on what happened elsewhere in the war, it is clear that the Zulus could not defeat British regulars who were defending in square or behind obstacles.  The only enlightenment that Knight adds about the battle concerns the final moments of the British infantry, which he deduced from participation in an archaeological dig on the battlefield in the 1990s.  Knight demonstrates that clumps of British infantry survived the overrunning of the camp and slowly tried to fight their way back to the border, but were overwhelmed enroute.<br /> Modern military professionals could use this volume as an excellent starting point for a study of regular forces fighting less well-developed opponents, and might see parallels with contemporary operations in Afghanistan or Somalia.  It is interesting to discern how over 1,300 British troops - including the battle-experienced 1st Battalion/24th Infantry - could be annihilated in the space of four hours by an opponent that was regarded as hopelessly inferior.  The root cause of the defeat at Isandlwana was the same as at the Little Bighorn in 1876 or Mogadishu in 1993 (or Bunker Hill in 1775): professional soldier arrogance.  While the Zulus were ultimately defeated - at much greater cost in resources and time than the British had bargained for - they did demonstrate that not all indigenous military forces merely sit around waiting to be picked off like clay pigeons by superior military technology.t for a study of regular forces fighting less well-developed opponents, and might see parallels with contemporary operations in Afghanistan or Somalia.  It is interesting to discern how over 1,300 British troops - including the battle-experienced 1st Battalion/24th Infantry - could be annihilated in the space of four hours by an opponent that was regarded as hopelessly inferior.  The root cause of the defeat at Isandlwana was the same as at the Little Bighorn in 1876 or Mogadishu in 1993 (or Bunker Hill in 1775): professional soldier arrogance.  While the Zulus were ultimately defeated - at much greater cost in resources and time than the British had bargained for - they did demonstrate that not all indigenous military forces merely sit around waiting to be picked off like clay pigeons by superior military technology.	2002-10-04
1388598:US	52533596	R2B5HC4SQ6I56W	1841763616	479502577	The French Wars 1667-1714	Books	4	19	20	N	N	War as Process, the Short Version	The French Wars is essentially a condensed and summarized version of Professor John Lynn's earlier work, The Wars of Louis XIV.  As usual, Lynn's writing and research are impeccable and this volume is a fine short history of its subject.<br /> After short sections covering the background to Louis' wars, Lynn addresses the various opposing sides in a 15-page section that concludes with his \\"war-as-process\\" depiction of 17th Century warfare.  A four-page section on the outbreak of the war is odd because it covers the initiation of all five of Louis' wars in one felt swoop; this section makes little sense as a stand-alone summary and should have been inserted into the campaign narrative.  The actual summary of the five wars is 35 pages long.  Of particular interest is French atrocities along the Rhine River Valley: the mortar bombardment of Koblenz in 1688 being analogous to modern-day bomber attacks, and the scorched earth tactics used to devastate the Palatinate in 1688.  For those readers who believe that the Germans are the sole perpetrators of political violence in Europe, these incidents - with Germans as victims - may seek to illuminate where some of the roots of later German militarism.  Another interesting point that Lynn makes is the value of defensive fortifications in the 17th Century; both forts and defensive lines were expensive but acted to control the tempo of warfare.  The final sections cover the portrait of a soldier (which focuses on a woman serving in disguise), a short section on the nature of predatory armies, portrait of a civilian, and a section on how the wars ended (\\"peace by exhaustion\\").<br /> There are a total of nine maps in this volume: Europe in 1661, the Rhineland, the Battles of Blenheim, Fleurus, Ramillies, Malplaquet, Provençe and Northern Italy, Turenne's campaigns of 1674-1675, and the Spanish Low Countries.  Actually, the maps are the only disappointment in this volume, and they reflect the same weakness as in Lynn's larger work on the subject.  Other than the one map of Turenne's campaign, the large-scale maps do not reflect specific campaigns or wars, so it is difficult for the reader to appreciate the specific operations in each of the five wars.  Nor are there any maps that depict territorial acquisitions or losses as a result of the wars.<br /> Lynn's conclusions about the wars of Louis XIV are interesting.  First, he states that, \\"the relative power of France decreased as a consequence of Louis' wars..\\" but that, \\"Louis' war-as-process achieved lasting gains.\\"  Louis \\"operated within the international system of his day, respecting its methods and moderation.\\"  Lynn contrasts the wars of Louis XIV with Napoleon, who viewed war as an event and who disregarded international norms.  However the greatest consequence of the wars of Louis XIV was the fatal damage done to French state finances; Louis refused to reform a tax system that endowed the nobility and clergy with exemptions and instead relied on ruinous short-term loans.  Ultimately, Louis' wars bankrupted France for generations and his successors faced the same problem whenever they opted to use war as a solution to international problems.work on the subject.  Other than the one map of Turenne's campaign, the large-scale maps do not reflect specific campaigns or wars, so it is difficult for the reader to appreciate the specific operations in each of the five wars.  Nor are there any maps that depict territorial acquisitions or losses as a result of the wars.     <br /> Lynn's conclusions about the wars of Louis XIV are interesting.  First, he states that, \\"the relative power of France decreased as a consequence of Louis' wars..\\" but that, \\"Louis' war-as-process achieved lasting gains.\\"  Louis \\"operated within the international system of his day, respecting its methods and moderation.\\"  Lynn contrasts the wars of Louis XIV with Napoleon, who viewed war as an event and who disregarded international norms.  However the greatest consequence of the wars of Louis XIV was the fatal damage done to French state finances; Louis refused to reform a tax system that endowed the nobility and clergy with exemptions and instead relied on ruinous short-term loans.  Ultimately, Louis' wars bankrupted France for generations and his successors faced the same problem whenever they opted to use war as a solution to international problems.	2002-10-04
1396576:US	52533596	R3DUKKM1F9O7O1	0304356352	749756194	Tannenberg 1914	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Simply the Best Account Available on Tannenberg	The critical battle of Tannenberg in 1914 that set the tone for the rest of Imperial Russia's involvement in the First World War has long been a neglected subject in English language histories.  This deficiency was rectified in 1991 when Dennis E. Showalter wrote Tannenberg: Clash of Empires, and for eleven years that book has stood as the best on the subject.  No longer. John Sweetman's Tannenberg 1914 totally outclasses Showalter's book and is now the best available account of this campaign.<br /> Tannenberg 1914 consists of a historical prologue on the Battle of Tannenberg in 1410, five chapters on the campaign itself, an epilogue, a campaign chronology, an order of battle, a section on organization and weaponry, bibliography and notes.  Unlike Showalter's book, which boasted only five crude sketch maps and no photographs, Sweetman's book has twelve splendid full-color maps of the campaign that cover the phases in great detail, as well as numerous excellent photographs.  Graphically, Tannenberg 1914 is of very high quality and one would hope that the next books in this series will hold to that standard.  Furthermore, most accounts of the campaign only cover the mauling of Samsonov's 2nd Russian Army during 25-30 August 1914 and neglect to say much about the fate of Rennenkampf's 1st Army.  Sweetman covers both phases of this campaign in great detail, including the Battle of the Masurian Lakes on 8-13 September 1914.<br /> Sweetman is no novice historian and he quickly moves to demolish the many myths and distortions associated with the Tannenberg campaign, such as the alleged Samsonov-Rennenkampf feud and Russian communications sloppiness (they simply lacked the necessary equipment and operators at this stage to encode messages).  Why did the Russians suffer defeat in this campaign?  Sweetman concludes that it was a number of factors, beginning with the ineptitude of the Northwest Front Commander Zhilinski who failed to properly coordinate the operation (interestingly, Sweetman is not so harsh on Rennenkampf or Samsonov).  Other major factors were luck (what if the German commander von Prittwitz had not been replaced; he was more cautious than Hindenberg-Ludendoff), totally inadequate Russian logistics, inadequate communications, and of Russian mechanized transport.  On the operational side, Russian commanders continuously neglected to conduct proper reconnaissance and screening operations with their available cavalry units, which permitted the Germans to gain tactical surprise time and again (the Germans benefited from air reconnaissance and signal intercepts).  Many of these Russian problems were due to the premature nature of the entire offensive; Russia had pledged to France that it would invade East Prussia by M+15 and the Tsar and General Staff stuck to that schedule.  The result was that Russian troops - without much food, ammunition or medical support - did invade East Prussia close to the schedule, but that the hasty preparations had almost doomed the operation from the onset.  Many units crossed the border lacking vital sub-units and equipment, which made sustained operations problematic.  If the Germans had retreated to the Vistula River this cobbled-together offensive might have succeeded at least initially, but the Germans called their bluff at Tannenberg.<br /> One particularly interesting aspect of Sweetman's account is his detail on Russian losses.  Many accounts - even Showalter's - suggest that the Russian 2nd Army was annihilated and the 1st Army was nearly so.  Sweetman exposes this exaggeration, inspired no doubt by German propaganda, as falsehood.  Samsonov's 2nd Army, which bore the brunt of the German counteroffensive, lost three of its five corps but still had seven divisions left after it withdraw back into Poland.  Showalter even claims that only about 200 Russian cavalrymen broke out of the German pocket. However, Sweetman lists the escape of part of the Russian 13th Corps - one of the units usually listed as destroyed - which had over 13,000 troops in an organized column break through to Poland.  Furthermore, most accounts tend to mention the defeat of Rennenkampf's army as an afterthought and imply that it too, suffered a double envelopment.  Sweetman details how the docility of Rennenkampf led to his army's defeat, but that it conducted a decent tactical withdrawal without heavy loss and still retained 100,000 troops (as large as the Army of the Potomac in 1863).  The photographs in this section are also worthwhile, since they demonstrate that the Russians were capable of constructing stout field positions with overhead cover.<br /> Military officers should study Sweetman's book carefully for several reasons.  First, this book details the high cost of letting political imperatives ride roughshod over military realities, particularly logistics and planning.  Second, Tannenberg 1914 demonstrates how an army must be trained and prepared for the war that it is likely to fight; strategic success is the result of years of effort, and cannot be conjured up by ad hoc means.  Third, commanders must aggressively seek out and fix an enemy; all the Russian commanders in 1914 seemed to focus too much on reaching this or that phase line, and seemed relatively unconcerned about grabbing on to the German 8th Army and crushing it.  Nor did the Russian sacrifice at Tannenberg make much difference to the Allied war effort either; Sweetman details how the alleged role in the Russian offensive diverting two German corps from the Western Front and thereby contributing to Allied success at the Battle of the Marne is unlikely.  In the end, Tsarist Russia honored its treaty requirements and paid a heavy price for its efforts.lly listed as destroyed - which had over 13,000 troops in an organized column break through to Poland.  Furthermore, most accounts tend to mention the defeat of Rennenkampf's army as an afterthought and imply that it too, suffered a double envelopment.  Sweetman details how the docility of Rennenkampf led to his army's defeat, but that it conducted a decent tactical withdrawal without heavy loss and still retained 100,000 troops (as large as the Army of the Potomac in 1863).  The photographs in this section are also worthwhile, since they demonstrate that the Russians were capable of constructing stout field positions with overhead cover.<br /> Military officers should study Sweetman's book carefully for several reasons.  First, this book details the high cost of letting political imperatives ride roughshod over military realities, particularly logistics and planning.  Second, Tannenberg 1914 demonstrates how an army must be trained and prepared for the war that it is likely to fight; strategic success is the result of years of effort, and cannot be conjured up by ad hoc means.  Third, commanders must aggressively seek out and fix an enemy; all the Russian commanders in 1914 seemed to focus too much on reaching this or that phase line, and seemed relatively unconcerned about grabbing on to the German 8th Army and crushing it.  Nor did the Russian sacrifice at Tannenberg make much difference to the Allied war effort either; Sweetman details how the alleged role in the Russian offensive diverting two German corps from the Western Front and thereby contributing to Allied success at the Battle of the Marne is unlikely.  In the end, Tsarist Russia honored its treaty requirements and paid a heavy price for its efforts.	2002-09-26
1405631:US	52533596	R27EFSQNDBJF5C	0060084332	270759759	The Myth of the Great War: A New Military History of World War I	Books	1	118	163	N	N	A New Low in Historical Scholarship	The Myth of the Great War is a fatally flawed revisionist account of WW1 that asserts that all previous accounts were distorted by Allied propaganda, faulty historiography, bias and selective use of facts.  Mosier, an English professor whose writing style seems to demonstrate that higher education in Louisiana means successfully stringing together sentence fragments, asserts that the Germans won all the battles due to their immense superiority in artillery and tactical skill, but that the Americans reversed the tide of inevitable German victory.  The author then employs German propaganda, faulty historiography, bias and selective use of facts to demonstrate that everyone who wrote about the war prior to him was either a fool or a liar.  The level of intellectual dishonesty and objectivity that Mosier employs to validate and sensationalize his counter-intuitive hypothesis is astounding.<br />  Right up front, readers with background in the First World War will begin to suspect Mosier's integrity by his flagrant and frequent use of exaggerations and deliberate concealment of relevant facts.  Mosier asserts Germany's technological edge, in that  \\"the German army entered the war using weapons that the British and the French simply didn't possess (hand grenades, mortars, motorized super-heavy artillery)..\\" but he fails to mention that the Germans had only fifty small minenwerfer or that the British engineers had hand grenades just like the German pioneers.  Nor does he mention that the British Stokes mortar introduced in August 1915 was far superior to German models and became the standard design up to the current day.  Indeed, Mosier is constantly harping on German technological adaptiveness, but fails to mention that the Allies pressed steel helmets into service a year before the Germans, or the rapid introduction of gas masks to counter the new poison gas.  Furthermore, Germany's failure to seriously pursue tank development is dismissed by Mosier as irrelevant since tanks were still mechanically unreliable.  Mosier ignores Joffre's artillery program of 1915 that quickly began to rectify Allied deficiencies in that arm or the frequent use of super-heavy railroad guns.  Mosier is also overly fond of exaggerated terms like \\"massacre,\\" \\"destroyed, \\"  \\"wiped out,\\" or \\"annihilated\\" when referring to Allied losses.  The author's repeated reference to Allied \\"kamikaze attacks\\" is gratuitously stupid.<br /> Distortions are rampant in this account.  Mosier asserts that, \\"Germany won the military struggle against its adversaries because Germany used its resources more intelligently.\\"  Really? What about the logistic infeasibility of the Schlieffen Plan, the huge waste of steel on a High Seas Fleet that spent most  of the war at anchor and then mutinied, expensive Zeppelins and an indecisive attrition offensive at Verdun instead of finishing off Russia in 1916?  Mosier is quick to assert German tactical success at the Marne in 1914, St Mihiel in 1914 and Verdun in 1916 - yet why did they always stop or withdraw at the hour of victory if Allied efforts were so ineffective?  Indeed, Mosier never asks why German tactical success failed to produce a strategic success in any of their offensives in 1914-1916.  The author also misunderstands the role of artillery in trench warfare; heavy artillery was only effective in defeating attacks in conjunction with barbed wire and inter-locking machine gun posts.  Without an obstacle belt covered by machine gun fire, the German artillery would not have stopped Allied infantry attacks.<br /> The only decent part of this account is the discussion of the post-Marne German attacks in Argonne and St Mihiel, which are usually ignored in other accounts.  Mosier's account of the little-known 1915 struggle for the Buttes - the Vauquois and Les &Eacute;parges - is interesting but ignores better Allied efforts at Neuve Chapelle and Vimy Ridge in the same period.  Furthermore, the author delights in detailing French losses but fails to mention \\"der Kindermord\\" (massacre of the Innocents) of German reservists at Ypres in late 1914.<br /> Certainly the most blatant example of the author's dishonest approach is his use of the Tavannes railroad tunnel accidental explosion on 4 September 1916 that killed about 500-600 French troops to assert that, \\"this incident...suggests a lack of order in the French Army....in a well-organized and properly run army [i.e. the German Army] such things as the Tavannes tunnel disaster don't happen.\\"  It is inconceivable that an author who spent so much time walking around Verdun would be unaware of the German accidental explosion at Fort Douamont on 8 May 1916 that killed 600 troops.  Why was the French accident an indictment of their army, but not the German accident?  When it comes to the British, Mosier's narrative continually eschews objectivity.  Mosier asserts that, \\"in the United Kingdom, with its traditions of a volunteer army, there had never been any pressure forcing the military to train efficiently...\\" What about the Haldane Commission of 1907 that affected major changes due to lessons learned in the Boer War?  Mosier fixates on German General von Mudra as the originator of new combined arms tactics (ignoring Bruchmuller's artillery innovations) but completely ignores the \\"Monash Method\\" on the Allied side.  The author dismisses Allied successes:  \\"the capture of Vimy Ridge was an impressive accomplishment, but the army commanders were unable to follow it up properly.\\"  Mosier also asserts that, \\"the United States was a cobelligerent long before it declared war,\\" but fails to mention the trips of the German blockade running submarine Deutschland to the USA in 1916 just months before American entry into war.  Would a cobelligerent give Germany vital war material?<br /> The author also has a annoying tendency for double-talk. Mosier asserts that,  \\"Belleau Wood was a crucial engagement..\\" but on the next page, \\"Belleau Wood was an insignificant engagement..\\"  What was it?  At first, Mosier asserts that American general Pershing, \\"had the background for the task, which made him unique among the senior commanders of the war\\" and that Pershing was a general  \\"when Petain, Foch and Haig .. were all still colonels.\\"  Actually, Haig was a major general in 1905 when Pershing was still a captain.osses but fails to mention \\"der Kindermord\\" (massacre of the Innocents) of German reservists at Ypres in late 1914.  <br /> Certainly the most blatant example of the author's dishonest approach is his use of the Tavannes railroad tunnel accidental explosion on 4 September 1916 that killed about 500-600 French troops to assert that, \\"this incident...suggests a lack of order in the French Army....in a well-organized and properly run army [i.e. the German Army] such things as the Tavannes tunnel disaster don't happen.\\"  It is inconceivable that an author who spent so much time walking around Verdun would be unaware of the German accidental explosion at Fort Douamont on 8 May 1916 that killed 600 troops.   Why was the French accident an indictment of their army, but not the German accident?  When it comes to the British, Mosier's narrative continually eschews objectivity.   Mosier asserts that, \\"in the United Kingdom, with its traditions of a volunteer army, there had never been any pressure forcing the military to train efficiently...\\" What about the Haldane Commission of 1907 that affected major changes due to lessons learned in the Boer War?  Mosier fixates on German General von Mudra as the originator of new combined arms tactics (ignoring Bruchmuller's artillery innovations) but completely ignores the \\"Monash Method\\" on the Allied side.  The author dismisses Allied successes:  \\"the capture of Vimy Ridge was an impressive accomplishment, but the army commanders were unable to follow it up properly.\\"  Mosier also asserts that, \\"the United States was a cobelligerent long before it declared war,\\" but fails to mention the trips of the German blockade running submarine Deutschland to the USA in 1916 just months before American entry into war.  Would a cobelligerent give Germany vital war material?  <br /> The author also has a annoying tendency for double-talk. Mosier asserts that,  \\"Belleau Wood was a crucial engagement..\\" but on the next page, \\"Belleau Wood was an insignificant engagement..\\"  What was it?  At first, Mosier asserts that American general Pershing, \\"had the background for the task, which made him unique among the senior commanders of the war\\" and that Pershing was a general  \\"when Petain, Foch and Haig .. were all still colonels.\\"   Actually, Haig was a major general in 1905 when Pershing was still a captain.	2002-09-18
1417343:US	52533596	R1MRNH0VZV82I3	1841763780	157999843	The Thirty Years' War 1618-1648	Books	4	67	70	N	N	An Excellent Summary of a Neglected Conflict	Now that Osprey's Essential Histories series has covered most of the low-hanging fruit - like more needless summaries of the American Civil War - it is starting to actually use this series as it should: to cover those conflicts in military history that do not receive their fair share of attention.  Richard Bonney's volume on the Thirty Years War is well-written, accurate, insightful and fairly detailed for such a short volume. Readers looking for a good short history of this critical conflict in early modern European History should definitely purchase this volume.<br /> The volume begins with a short introduction, chronology a section on the background to the war and alliances.  Bonney succeeds in disputing the over-simplified view of the war as a simply religious conflict between Catholics and Protestants.  Instead, Bonney presents a vastly more complicated milieu of contentious issues and factions, with religion being only one albeit large factor. For example, Catholic (more or less) France was more concerned with limiting the power of Austria's Catholic Hapsburg's than with the minor power plays of various German Protestant small-fry duchies.  The author's discussion of the Catholic Imperialist alliance with Lutheran Saxony and the Protestant Hungarian alliance with the Ottomans provide ample evidence of the diversity of issues and tangled allegiances involved in the conflict.  Although this introductory material is interesting, it does tend to sidestep around some of the religious and economic motivations that kept the war going; the author mentions the refusal of the Lutherans to work with the Calvinists against the Catholic Empire, but fails to mention why these objections were so deep-seated.<br /> The author spends 17 pages in the section &quot;the warring sides,&quot; discussing the strengths and weaknesses of the Holy Roman Empire (Spanish gold, lots of combat veterans and good commanders), the German Protestants (poor quality troops and leaders), the Swedes (excellent artillery, cavalry and Gustavus Adolphus), the French (who were too distracted by their war with the Spanish to make a major effort in Germany), the Dutch and the Spanish.  This section is far more detailed than similar sections in other Osprey Essential History volumes.  The only deficiency in this area - and it runs throughout the volume - is a failure to provide any references on 17th Century currency.  Several times, the author details cash subsidies by the Dutch, Spanish, British in terms of thalers, guilders and florins.  Without any kind of reference about currency, it is difficult to evaluate the relative economic contributions of the various powers.<br /> The actual narrative of the conflict is 29 pages long - a bit short - but quite good.  There are seven 2-D maps that support the text (the Rhine fortresses in southwest Germany, the first Battle of Breitenfeld, the battles of Lutzen, Nordligen, Wittstock, 2nd Breitenfeld, and Jankow).  Unfortunately the greatest weaknesses in an otherwise fine volume is the lack of any strategic maps of Germany that depict pre or post-war boundaries and many of the peripheral areas.  The reader  will find it difficult to follow the campaign narrative in places like Swedish Pommerania, the Baltic Coast and Bavaria, which have no supporting maps.<br /> The final sections of the volume cover a look at typical mercenaries, civilian witnesses, the war in context and the conclusion of the war.  As usual, these sections are a bit weak and Osprey should re-think what it is asking authors to accomplish in these concluding sections.  Nevertheless, author Richard Bonney succeeds in delivering an excellent summary of the war that shaped pre-modern central Europe.Swedes (excellent artillery, cavalry and Gustavus Adolphus), the French (who were too distracted by their war with the Spanish to make a major effort in Germany), the Dutch and the Spanish.  This section is far more detailed than similar sections in other Osprey Essential History volumes.  The only deficiency in this area - and it runs throughout the volume - is a failure to provide any references on 17th Century currency.  Several times, the author details cash subsidies by the Dutch, Spanish, British in terms of thalers, guilders and florins.  Without any kind of reference about currency, it is difficult to evaluate the relative economic contributions of the various powers.  <br /> The actual narrative of the conflict is 29 pages long - a bit short - but quite good.  There are seven 2-D maps that support the text (the Rhine fortresses in southwest Germany, the first Battle of Breitenfeld, the battles of Lutzen, Nordligen, Wittstock, 2nd Breitenfeld, and Jankow).  Unfortunately the greatest weaknesses in an otherwise fine volume is the lack of any strategic maps of Germany that depict pre or post-war boundaries and many of the peripheral areas.  The reader  will find it difficult to follow the campaign narrative in places like Swedish Pommerania, the Baltic Coast and Bavaria, which have no supporting maps.  <br /> The final sections of the volume cover a look at typical mercenaries, civilian witnesses, the war in context and the conclusion of the war.  As usual, these sections are a bit weak and Osprey should re-think what it is asking authors to accomplish in these concluding sections.  Nevertheless, author Richard Bonney succeeds in delivering an excellent summary of the war that shaped pre-modern central Europe.	2002-09-06
1417598:US	52533596	R191L00RG4B99K	1841764728	23985198	The Mexican War 1846-1848	Books	2	36	39	N	N	A Sharp Turn Toward Irrelevance	The new Osprey Essential Histories series on the Mexican War starts out fairly well, but falters mid-way through its narrative of the conflict and never regains its footing.  Although the author's writing style and background are journalistic, he does succeed in delivering the essential elements that brought the conflict about, but his touch is less sure in dealing with the war itself.  If one desires a \\"cliff notes\\" volume on the Mexican War, this is it.  However, for a series that purports to engender a \\"deeper understanding of war,\\" this volume fails to deliver.<br /> The Mexican War begins with an 11-page section that lays out the background of the war.  The author does make a good point in citing Mexican intransigence and American land-greed as the proximate causes of the war; he notes, \\"they [the Mexicans] allowed their pride to cloud their judgment of potential American military strength.  The Mexican government therefore refused to negotiate...\\"  Nature abhors a vacuum, as is said, and the vast open, sparsely populated Mexican northern territories were a great temptation to an expanding American republic.  The section on opposing sides is woefully inadequate, with the equivalent of only three pages on the subject.  While the author depicts the essential conditions of each country's military forces in cultural terms, he fails to provide much in the way of specifics. An order of battle for at least the two main campaigns would have been nice, but the omission of military details quickly reveals this as a watered-down account.  The next section covers the actual outbreak of war on the Rio Grande and is fairly accurate. The bulk of the military campaigns are covered in the 30-page middle section. Aside from the lack of any order of battle type information or even specifics about how much cavalry or artillery each side had in various battles, the reader should note how few maps are used to support the text.  The critical battles around Mexico City are particularly poorly supported by the few generalized maps.  A 3-page section, entitled \\"portrait of a soldier,\\" is interesting in its discussion of the wartime career of one Lieutenant Sam Grant (later U S Grant).<br /> Unfortunately, the Mexican War makes a sharp turn off into irrelevance in a long-winded section entitled, \\"the world around the war,\\" which was intended to demonstrate the progress being made elsewhere in the world in comparison to the stagnation in Mexico.  This section covers an incredible array of non-issues for the Mexican War: the trapped Donner Party, the Mormons, the Revolution of 1848 in Europe, Karl Marx's Communist Manifesto, Charles Darwin, etc.  The author compounds this shot-gun approach to history with a follow-up section intended to give a portrait of a civilian (who had no direct involvement in the war), spending time detailing the birth of each of her children.  I thought this book was supposed to be about the Mexican War?  The author finally gets back to the climax of the war and the resulting peace treaty.  The incredible amount of space devoted to items totally unrelated to the conflict - fully 15% of the book - is inexcusable.  In Osprey volumes there is no doubt that size constraints limit the amount of detail that could be included, but when space is flagrantly wasted the format should not be used as an excuse.  This author should have included more detail on the war, on military leaders, on casualties rather than discussing nonsense like French ballet.  History requires focus to be intelligible.<br /> One major point that the author neglects in favor of above-mentioned nonsense is the uniqueness of Scott's Mexico City expedition.  This expedition was one of the best armies that the United States ever fielded: primarily regular in composition, with both troops and officers having recent combat experience.  Also, Scott's march on Mexico City required him to virtually sever his line of communication to the sea, which has only happened twicein US military history that a commander has voluntarily severed his supply lines (the other occasion was Sherman's March to the Sea).  Scott was one of the best American battlefield generals ever - the author should have made some mention of his exceptional victories in 1814 rather than just focusing on side issues like Scott's political problems.  Readers desiring a short history of the Mexican War will get that in these pages, but only that.twice in US military history that a commander has voluntarily severed his supply lines (the other occasion was Sherman's March to the Sea).  Scott was one of the best American battlefield generals ever - the author should have made some mention of his exceptional victories in 1814 rather than just focusing on side issues like Scott's political problems.  Readers desiring a short history of the Mexican War will get that in these pages, but only that.	2002-09-06
1419221:US	52533596	RYTMQF327F8U	1841764086	811900133	Poland 1939: The birth of Blitzkrieg (Campaign)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another Superb Zaloga Book	In the Osprey Campaign series volume, Poland 1939: the birth of Blitzkrieg, Stephen Zaloga, a renowned expert on armored vehicles and eastern European military affairs, continues his tireless effort to bring the facts to Western eyes of the opening round of the Second World War.  Readers familiar with Zaloga's 1985 full-length book The Polish Campaign 1939 will recognize the antecedents of this volume.  Zaloga, an American who has enjoyed extensive access to Polish historical archives, seeks to de-bunk the myths about the Polish campaign of 1939 which were perpetuated by wartime Nazi propaganda and post-war ignorance caused by the Iron Curtain.  Myths such as the tales of Polish cavalry charging German tanks with swords and the destruction of the Polish air force on the first day of the war are clearly exposed as falsehoods designed to boost Nazi military prowess to the world.  As usual, Zaloga brings his extensive analytic skills and language skills together in concert to produce a valuable piece of research that would otherwise be unavailable to most English readers.<br /> Zaloga begins with a short introduction, a section on the origins of the campaign and a campaign chronology.  In standard Osprey Campaign series format, Zaloga then has three sections covering opposing commanders, opposing plans and opposing armies, which comprise nearly a quarter of the volume.  The campaign narrative itself, covering all major air and ground operations in the Polish theater between 1 September - 6 October 1939, is fifty pages long.  Zaloga concludes with a four page aftermath section, notes on the battlefield today and a rather detailed guide to further reading.  Ground order of battle information for the Germans, Poles and Soviets is provided, but there is unfortunately no listing of air units.  This volume has five 2-D maps (dispositions on 1, 7 and 17 September 1939 and two on the Bzura River counterattack) and three 3-D \\"Bird's Eye View\\" maps (the Polish defense of Westerplatte, the Battle of Mokra and the Battle for Warsaw).  There are also three excellent color battle scenes: the cavalry defense at Mokra, a Stuka attack and street fighting in Warsaw.  The overall graphic quality of this volume, including the numerous photographs, is excellent.<br /> There are many strong points in this short volume, even if much of the research is merely a refinement from his earlier volume.  In particular, the defense conducted by a Polish Cavalry brigade at Mokra against the 4th Panzer Division on 1 September demonstrates that the initial German use of armored units in combat could be clumsy and costly at times.  Zaloga makes a good point that initially the German Luftwaffe was doctrinally un-prepared for close air support missions for the army and instead could only employ pre-planned strikes determined by the air staff; after two weeks of war the Germans slow introduced the close air support techniques that would be successful in 1940-1941 (does this initial inability to conduct CAS sound familiar to modern soldiers?).  Zaloga also makes a good point that the Poles did have some counterattack capabilities - they were not just punch dummies - and the Battle of the Bzura on 9-14 September 1939 caught the Germans over-extended.  In the initial attack, the Poles were able to force two German divisions to retreat and actually captured 1,500 prisoners!  Other interesting points include the fact that the Poles were the first to deploy tungsten-core anti-tank projectiles but the ammunition was developed as a \\"secret weapon\\" and not distributed until after the invasion began, thereby limiting its use.  Odd episodes, like the single Polish cavalry raid into East Prussia, a tank-versus-tank battle and a cavalry-versus-cavalry battle are also detailed.<br /> Although Zaloga concedes that the outcome of the campaign was a foregone conclusion, particularly given Anglo-French passivity and Soviet aggression, he provides a valuable discussion on the two opposing Polish concepts of defense.  The defense that made the most sense - concede the border areas and concentrate behind the Vistula River - was politically unacceptable, whereas the most politically palatable strategy - frontier defense - was militarily unsound.  The Poles reluctantly adopted the latter strategy out of the necessity to avoid German \\"nibbling tactics\\" against the disputed Danzig corridor; readers should note that this was the same strategic dilemma faced by NATO planners on the Central Front in the Cold War.<br /> There are only two weaknesses in this otherwise superb account.  First, Zaloga is deficient in the opposing leaders section, as he usually is in these Osprey titles.  Zaloga spends three pages discussing the German leaders, but spends three-quarters of that space discussing the German High Command: Hitler, Keitel, Jodl, Brauchitsch and Halder.  The two German army group commanders in Poland - von Rundstedt and von Bock - receive only two short paragraphs.  General Blaskowitz is the only German army commander who receives more than cursory mention - the other four receive no mention.  Even Guderian - the pre-imminent panzer leader in Poland - receives almost no mention.  This section was poorly crafted, with too much emphasis on the strategic rather than operational leaders.  The other weakness in the book is that Zaloga appears to have accepted the misleading hypothesis that a major French attack might have saved Poland by causing a German collapse; this fallacious hypothesis was advanced by Ernest May in his book, Strange Victory.  As I noted in my review of May's book, this hypothesis is unsupportable and deeply flawed.  Even Zaloga should have noted that by the time that Gamelin promised to begin an offensive against German - two weeks after war began - the Germans had already overrun most of Poland and Soviet invasion was imminent. The Poles might have been impressed by French military prowess but they were also aware that French doctrine for \\"methodical battle\\" called for slow, carefully prepared offensives.  Thus even if the French had been able and willing to honor their promise of military aid, it would have been too late to save the Polish army.opposing Polish concepts of defense.  The defense that made the most sense - concede the border areas and concentrate behind the Vistula River - was politically unacceptable, whereas the most politically palatable strategy - frontier defense - was militarily unsound.  The Poles reluctantly adopted the latter strategy out of the necessity to avoid German \\"nibbling tactics\\" against the disputed Danzig corridor; readers should note that this was the same strategic dilemma faced by NATO planners on the Central Front in the Cold War.  <br /> There are only two weaknesses in this otherwise superb account.  First, Zaloga is deficient in the opposing leaders section, as he usually is in these Osprey titles.  Zaloga spends three pages discussing the German leaders, but spends three-quarters of that space discussing the German High Command: Hitler, Keitel, Jodl, Brauchitsch and Halder.  The two German army group commanders in Poland - von Rundstedt and von Bock - receive only two short paragraphs.  General Blaskowitz is the only German army commander who receives more than cursory mention - the other four receive no mention.  Even Guderian - the pre-imminent panzer leader in Poland - receives almost no mention.  This section was poorly crafted, with too much emphasis on the strategic rather than operational leaders.  The other weakness in the book is that Zaloga appears to have accepted the misleading hypothesis that a major French attack might have saved Poland by causing a German collapse; this fallacious hypothesis was advanced by Ernest May in his book, Strange Victory.  As I noted in my review of May's book, this hypothesis is unsupportable and deeply flawed.  Even Zaloga should have noted that by the time that Gamelin promised to begin an offensive against German - two weeks after war began - the Germans had already overrun most of Poland and Soviet invasion was imminent. The Poles might have been impressed by French military prowess but they were also aware that French doctrine for \\"methodical battle\\" called for slow, carefully prepared offensives.  Thus even if the French had been able and willing to honor their promise of military aid, it would have been too late to save the Polish army.	2002-09-04
1419674:US	52533596	R150HFVKEP4MYV	0140444483	978335397	The Roman History: The Reign of Augustus (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	30	35	N	Y	More Urban Legend Than History	Compared to well-written ancient histories by Tacitus, Suetonius or Ammianus Marcellinus, Cassius Dio's history of the reign of Augustus is a great disappointment.  Cassius Dio was a Greek (c. 163-235 AD) who wrote the history about 214-226 AD.  Although Dio was well educated, his approach is far less methodical and tends to focus on what would now be called \\"urban legends.\\"  Throughout these pages, there is a seemingly endless recounting of strange incidents and oddities involving sea monsters, odd sounds, weird apparitions, statues frowning or bleeding, tigers, swarms of ants or bees, flames, wolves, comets, owls and even crows dropping \\"flaming fragments of meat.\\"  At times the reader will be embarrassed for Cassius Dio and wish that some of these pages had been lost to posterity. While there is no doubt that Dio does offer a full account of sorts of the reign of Augustus, there is little information that is not better presented by Suetonius or Tacitus.<br />  The history consists of seven books (chapters), numbered 50-56, that cover the period 32 BC to 14 AD.  While there are some missing parts, these are not very significant.  The Penguin edition begins with a 29 page introduction that is interesting and informative.  There are a series of maps that cover most of the empire in this period but as usual, Penguin omits to cover the crucial area of the Balkans.  Much of the campaigns of Tiberius, Drusus and Germanicus in Dacia and Moesia that are mentioned in the history are not depicted on any of the maps.<br />  The history begins with two books covering the confrontation between Mark Antony and Octavian.  While interesting, the account is very superficial and the decisive Battle of Actium is glossed over with little detail.  Book 52, which covers the infamous \\"debate\\" between Agrippa and Maecenas about the virtues of monarchy and democracy, is a 37-page historical wasteland.  Aside from the obvious fact that the author inserted this fictional dialogue to expound his own theories of government, much of the dialogue is inconsistent with the characters and of little practical historical value.<br />  The history gets back on track with the narrative in Book 53 and Dio does discuss interesting aspects of the development of the principate in the early years.  For example, to maintain the pretense of senatorial rule, Augustus allowed the senate to administer the interior provinces of the empire while he governed the frontier provinces.  However since the Roman army was only deployed in the frontier provinces, Augustus effectively controlled all the military resources in the empire (including his Praetorian Guard).  Dio also mentions the Roman expedition down the Red Sea in 24 BC, which reached as far as modern-day Yemen.  There is also considerable detail on the Imperial family in the last half of the book, which fans of \\"I Claudius\\" will find interesting, and readers will note how Robert Graves used rumors of imperial plots and conspiracies mentioned by Dio to weave his tale.<br />  The last two books, 55 and 56, are the most interesting from the point of view of the military historian.  Although Dio rarely goes into great detail, he does discuss the campaigns of Tiberius, Drusus and Germanicus at some length.  On pages 213-215, Dio provides an order of battle for the legions, the origin of each legion and a discussion of the military budget.  It is interesting that initially Augustus paid military pensions out of his own funds and then reverted to a 5% death inheritance tax to supplement the military budget; it is apparent from Dio that the Roman army in Augustus' time was maintained on a financial shoestring.  The Battle of Teutobergerwald is also discussed and Dio suggests that the Romans were lulled into a false sense of security by conspiring German tribes and committed the mistake of making an essentially administrative road march (complete with camp followers) through hostile territory.  After this catastrophe, Augustuswas hard-pressed to scrape up replacements and was forced to conscript freedmen by lots and execute malingerers.  Clearly, the Roman Empire had no reserve military capacity - it was all in the window.  Finally, Dio concludes that the main contribution of Augustus was the length of his 44-year reign, which provided vital stability to Rome.  By the time that Augustus died, Romans had grown accustomed to monarchy and did not yearn for an unfamiliar Republic (which brought back distant memories of civil war).astrophe, Augustus was hard-pressed to scrape up replacements and was forced to conscript freedmen by lots and execute malingerers.  Clearly, the Roman Empire had no reserve military capacity - it was all in the window.  Finally, Dio concludes that the main contribution of Augustus was the length of his 44-year reign, which provided vital stability to Rome.  By the time that Augustus died, Romans had grown accustomed to monarchy and did not yearn for an unfamiliar Republic (which brought back distant memories of civil war).	2002-09-04
1419871:US	52533596	R1FZLO03UD15BL	1841764124	283971504	Culloden Moor 1746: The death of the Jacobite cause (Campaign)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Butcher Cumberland's Finest Hour	In 1991, Osprey Campaign volume #12 by Peter Harrington covered the Culloden campaign of 1745-1746.  Now eleven years later, Osprey recovers the same ground with campaign volume #106 Culloden Moor by Stuart Reid.  Aside from the questionable logic of re-doing the same topics when so many other topics in military history remain neglected, Osprey has at least picked the right person to revisit this infamous campaign.  Stuart Reid, is an expert on the subject of Culloden and author of the ground-breaking accounts, Like Hungry Wolves and 1745: A Military History of the Jacobite Rising.  Reid's narrative is efficient and professional, and the graphic presentation methods of the campaign series have certainly improved over the past decade.  As to whether Reid's volume is better than Harrington's, I would say that both are good campaign summaries but they approach the subject from different angles.  Harrington's earlier volume dealt with the '45 as a whole, spending considerable effort discussing the battles of Prestonpans and Falkirk and only 41% on the Battle of Culloden itself.  Reid's account is more squarely focused on Culloden with 60% devoted to the battle, and much less to events preceding the battle.  Unlike Harrington, Reid does not even bother to discuss the flight of the Pretender or the brutal mop-up operations.  Therefore, Reid's account contains more battle narrative than Harrington's, but Harrington provides more background material on the campaign as a whole.<br />Culloden Moor 1746 follows the standard Osprey campaign series format and begins with a short introduction and campaign chronology, followed by short but well-written sections on opposing commanders, opposing armies and opposing plans.  Reid includes orders of battle for the Dutch and Hessian auxiliary troops that served under British command, as well as the main Jacobite and British forces that fought at Culloden.  The campaign narrative itself, which covers the period January-April 1746, is 55 pages long.  Reid concludes with a brief aftermath section, notes on further reading and comments on the battlefield today.  There are five 2-D maps (Major troop movements in Britain, operations around Inverness, the Jacobite night march, initial dispositions at Culloden, and Culloden moor today) and three 3-D \\"Bird's Eye View\\" maps (Culloden opening moves, the Highland charge and the destruction of the Jacobite army).  There are also three full color battle scenes: the Highland charge at Prestonpans, The Royal Scots at Culloden and the Royal Ecossois at Culloden.<br /> Reid makes a number of very good points about the weaknesses of British cavalry in the reconnaissance role, the Jacobite oatmeal stockpile in Inverness that was critical for their survival as an army, the operational choices facing the Jacobites in April 1746 (run and disperse, defend or attack) and the cautious but professional tactics of the British.  The author also makes insightful comment that the British infantry volleys at Culloden almost certainly caused far greater casualties to the Jacobites than the artillery barrage, which he reckons was shorter and less destructive than generally claimed.  Indeed, the reader is left with little doubt that Reid has mastered the historical details of this subject.<br /> The only complaint with Reid's narrative applies equally to his other works on Culloden: a tendency to downplay British atrocities.  Nowhere in these pages do we find mention of \\"Butcher Cumberland,\\" the notorious accolade for the British commander who presided over one of the grimmer chapters in British military history.  Reid's bias is the standard device for those who wish to avoid dealing with black pages in their country's history: deny, minimize, ignore.  According to Reid, John Prebble, author of the classic Culloden in 1961, was too inclined to accept atrocity allegations at face value.  Reid denies the most vicious atrocity stories about Culloden - such as the alleged burning of Jacobite wounded in a farmhouse and bayoneting of wounded - but concedes that \\"isolated incidents\\" by the \\"vestry men\\" (British short-term conscripts) probably occurred.  Minimize: it wasn't the British army that did these atrocities, but if any occurred it must have been the draftees not the regulars.  Furthermore, the \\"everybody was doing approach\\" is employed by suggesting that other countries dealt just as harshly with rebels (this is really the \\"lowest common denominator\\" approach in suggesting that one's army merely need not act worse than any other army - say, the Turks - rather than setting any kind of higher standard).  Then, Reid has the audacity to state that, \\"the bitter legacy of those punitive expeditions [that followed the Battle of Culloden], justified as they were...\\" Murder and rape are justified?  Readers should consult Prebble's account to get a better understanding of the year-long killing, raping and looting spree that the British army undertook along the Great Glenn in reprisal for the Jacobite Uprising.  In particular, Prebble - unlike Reid - notes that the British were so indiscriminate in their reprisals that they often brutalized loyalist Scots who had supported the crown against the rebels.  Even if Prebble's account is too biased against the British as Reid claims, there is no doubt that the British punitive measures were very harsh indeed.  Furthermore, American readers should consider the brutal repressive measures that this same British army would use to combat American rebels thirty years later; British regulars bayoneted many unarmed American soldiers in the Gowanus Swamps outside New York in 1776 and Banastre Tarleton's atrocities in the south were infamous.  Reid's efforts to whitewash this sorry chapter in British military history are just as offensive as German historians attempting to minimize the activities of the SS or Japanese historians the Bataan Death March.<br /> The fact is that Culloden was a seminal event in Scottish history.  Reid's account is essentially an operational account that - while very good in the military realm - leaves out the true social, political and psychological context of this battle. The British used Culloden and the suppression of the Jacobites to crush any trace of Scottish independence for over a century and in that unstated sense, it was a national tragedy.f Jacobite wounded in a farmhouse and bayoneting of wounded - but concedes that \\"isolated incidents\\" by the \\"vestry men\\" (British short-term conscripts) probably occurred.  Minimize: it wasn't the British army that did these atrocities, but if any occurred it must have been the draftees not the regulars.  Furthermore, the \\"everybody was doing approach\\" is employed by suggesting that other countries dealt just as harshly with rebels (this is really the \\"lowest common denominator\\" approach in suggesting that one's army merely need not act worse than any other army - say, the Turks - rather than setting any kind of higher standard).  Then, Reid has the audacity to state that, \\"the bitter legacy of those punitive expeditions [that followed the Battle of Culloden], justified as they were...\\" Murder and rape are justified?  Readers should consult Prebble's account to get a better understanding of the year-long killing, raping and looting spree that the British army undertook along the Great Glenn in reprisal for the Jacobite Uprising.  In particular, Prebble - unlike Reid - notes that the British were so indiscriminate in their reprisals that they often brutalized loyalist Scots who had supported the crown against the rebels.  Even if Prebble's account is too biased against the British as Reid claims, there is no doubt that the British punitive measures were very harsh indeed.  Furthermore, American readers should consider the brutal repressive measures that this same British army would use to combat American rebels thirty years later; British regulars bayoneted many unarmed American soldiers in the Gowanus Swamps outside New York in 1776 and Banastre Tarleton's atrocities in the south were infamous.  Reid's efforts to whitewash this sorry chapter in British military history are just as offensive as German historians attempting to minimize the activities of the SS or Japanese historians the Bataan Death March.  <br /> The fact is that Culloden was a seminal event in Scottish history.  Reid's account is essentially an operational account that - while very good in the military realm - leaves out the true social, political and psychological context of this battle. The British used Culloden and the suppression of the Jacobites to crush any trace of Scottish independence for over a century and in that unstated sense, it was a national tragedy.	2002-09-04
1421721:US	52533596	R3C6GA8TEK8HRN	0140444483	978335397	The Roman History: The Reign of Augustus (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	6	12	N	Y	More Urban Legend Than History	Compared to well-written ancient histories by Tacitus, Suetonius or Ammianus Marcellinus, Cassius Dio's history of the reign of Augustus is a great disappointment.  Cassius Dio was a Greek (c. 163-235 AD) who served in the Roman Empire as a senator, consul and provincial governor and who then turned to write a history of the first emperor in the later years of his life, about 214-226 AD.  Although Dio was well educated and familiar with the methods of ancient historians, his approach is far less methodical and tends to focus on what would now be called \\"urban legends.\\"  Throughout these pages, there is a seemingly endless recounting of strange incidents and oddities involving sea monsters, odd sounds, weird apparitions, statues frowning or bleeding, tigers, swarms of ants or bees, flames, wolves, comets, owls and even crows dropping \\"flaming fragments of meat.\\"  At times the reader will be embarrassed for Cassius Dio and wish that some of these pages had been lost to posterity. While there is no doubt that Dio does offer a full account of sorts of the reign of Augustus, there is little information that is not better presented by Suetonius or Tacitus.  <br />    The history consists of seven books (chapters), numbered 50-56, that cover the period 32 BC to 14 AD.  While there are some missing parts, these are not very significant.  The Penguin edition begins with a 29 page introduction that is interesting and informative.  There are a series of maps that cover most of the empire in this period but as usual, Penguin omits to cover the crucial area of the Balkans.  Much of the campaigns of Tiberius, Drusus and Germanicus occurred in Dacia and Moesia, and these areas are not depicted on any of the maps, whereas areas not even mentioned by Dio are depicted.  The history begins with two books covering the confrontation between Mark Antony and Octavian.  While interesting, the account is very superficial and the decisive Battle of Actium is glossed over with little detail.<br />  Book 52, which covers the infamous \\"debate\\" between Agrippa and Maecenas about the virtues of monarchy and democracy, is a 37-page historical wasteland.  Aside from the obvious fact that the author inserted this fictional dialogue to expound his own theories of government, much of the dialogue is inconsistent with the characters and of no practical historical value anyway.  Dio only discusses a theoretical government, not the actual government of Augustus, so the value of this is nil.  Note to reader: skip book 52.  <br />     Dio gets back on track with the historical narrative in Book 53 and does discuss interesting aspects of the development of the principate in the early years.  For example, to maintain the pretense of senatorial rule, Augustus allowed the senate to administer the interior provinces of the empire while he governed the frontier provinces.  However since the Roman army was only deployed in the frontier provinces, Augustus effectively controlled all the military resources in the empire (including his Praetorian Guard).  Dio also mentions the Roman expedition down the Red Sea in 24 BC, which reached as far as modern-day Yemen.  There is also considerable detail on the Imperial family in the last half of the book, which fans of \\"I Claudius\\" will find interesting, and readers will note how Robert Graves used rumors of imperial plots and conspiracies mentioned by Dio to weave his tale.  <br />     The last two books, 55 and 56, are the most interesting from the point of view of the military historian.  Although Dio rarely goes into great detail, he does discuss the campaigns of Tiberius, Drusus and Germanicus at some length.  On pages 213-215, Dio provides an order of battle for the legions, the origin of each legion and a discussion of the military budget.  It is interesting that initially Augustus paid military pensions out of his own funds and then reverted to a 5% death inheritance tax to supplement the military budget; it is apparent fromDio that the Roman army in Augustus' time was maintained on a financial shoestring.  The Battle of Teutobergerwald is also discussed and it is apparent that the Romans were lulled into a false sense of security by conspiring German tribes and committed the mistake of making an essentially administrative road march (complete with camp followers) through hostile territory.  After this catastrophe, Augustus was hard-pressed to scrape up replacements and was forced to conscript freedmen by lots and execute malingerers.  Clearly, the Roman Empire had no reserve military capacity - it was all in the window.  <br />      Finally, Dio concludes that the main contribution of Augustus was the length of his 44-year reign, which provided vital stability to Rome.  By the time that Augustus died, Romans had grown accustomed to monarchy and did not yearn for an unfamiliar Republic (which brought back distant memories of civil war).  Rome was also fortunate that the personality and character of Augustus was not egomaniacal, as so many of his successors would prove.  Augustus listened to his advisors, was more inclined to persuade than dictate, and usually kept his supreme powers in reasonable check.  Augustus gave Rome four decades of sound management and he laid the basic design that endured for four more centuries, despite many threats to stability.  As for Dio's history, it is of interest to the specialist in Roman history, but the tendency to relate rumors and gossip at the expense of fact is a major weakness.	2002-09-02
1421974:US	52533596	R1IRE63M1BBCPA	1853674826	321958226	Gettysburg: An Alternate History (Greenhill Military Paperback)	Books	4	30	33	N	N	Disaster at Gettysburg	Peter G. Tsouras' Gettysburg: An Alternate History is an interesting investigation of intriguing \\"what if\\" issues surrounding the greatest battle of the American Civil War.  Military readers and historians will wade through the somewhat dry \\"blow-by-blow\\" and arrive at a better understanding of key issues of the battle which are not always obvious in accounts of the actual battle.  On the other hand, the general public will not find this book appealing at all but rather, tedious and confusing.<br />  Unlike other works of alternate history, which tend to effect only one change in a historical situation, Tsouras' narrative on Gettysburg poses five major changes.  These changes are: (1) what if Stuart had turned up sooner, on the evening of 1 July 1863? (2) what if Ewell had conducted a more vigorous pursuit onto Cemetery Hill and Culp's Hill on the night of 1 July? (3) what if Longstreet had persuaded Lee in allowing a wider Confederate envelopment of the Union left flank on 2 July? (4) what if the Confederates had mounted a larger, better coordinated assault against the Union center on 3 July? and (4) what if the Union had mounted a major counterattack after the failure of Longstreet's assault?  Tsouras has encompassed the most intriguing possibilities about the battle in this account, but it probably would have been better to \\"de-link\\" the alternate events by means of an anthology.  By putting all five alternatives into play in the same sequential account, plus other alternate events like Meade and Lee becoming casualties, the alternative nature of this account threatens to snowball out of control.<br />  Tsouras' alternate history does help to highlight certain aspects of the two armies that will be interesting to military readers.  First, the early return of Stuart demonstrates the reliance that Lee placed on that trusted commander, rather than just his five brigades of cavalry.  Actually, Lee retained several other brigades of cavalry under his control but failed to make use of them in Stuart's (historical) absence.  For Lee, Stuart was his Reconnaissance and Security (R&S) asset, not the actual cavalry units.  Instead of just moaning, \\"where is Stuart, where is Stuart?\\" the historical Lee should have been re-constituting his R&S capability from other cavalry available. This failure to adapt was a major command failure on Lee's part - which has been obscured in actual histories of the campaign - which tend to affix great blame on Stuart.  A second military issue that is revealed in this alternative history is the superior Union artillery organization (as opposed to technical and numerical superiority, which is frequently mentioned).  The Union artillery at Gettysburg was under the firm central control of Major General Hunt, who coordinated both the artillery reserve and corps artillery.  On the other hand, the Army of Northern Virginia maintained much weaker control over its artillery, lacking a central artillery reserve or a senior officer willing to coordinate the artillery of its three corps.  Military readers will see in this issue the antecedents of the argument between \\"decentralization\\" and \\"centralization\\" in fire support with the latter winning in this case.  Indeed, Tsouras' alternative clearly places the Union artillery center stage because three times it is the artillery that saves the Army of the Potomac when the Confederates achieve breakthroughs.  The need to mass and redeploy artillery quickly was less urgent in the actual battle, but a major asset of the Union army nevertheless.<br />The weakest aspects of this alternative history are the chosen methodology and insufficient maps to follow the narrative.  Tsouras follows in the footsteps of legendary Gettysburg park historian Harry Pfanz and elects to describe the movements, attacks and retreats of virtually every regiment in the battle.  This is tedious and unenlightening.  At times, the narrative becomes clogged and confusing, with too much low-level detail which does not aid the reader's understanding of how this battle differs from the actual battle.  Furthermore, there is a gross insufficiency of sketch maps to follow the battle (nor can the readers use other books on Gettysburg, since the action deviates sharply from the historical dispositions), particularly in the crucial fighting on 2 July.  Sedgwick's Union VI Corps movements, which cause Longstreet's flanking attack to unravel, are not even depicted.<br />As for the \\"alternate\\" outcome of this version of Gettysburg, southern readers will not be pleased.  Instead of merely suffering a major defeat as they actually did in July 1863, in this alternative history the Confederates suffer a military catastrophe that results in the war ending shortly thereafter.  Such a catastrophe was most improbable and readers should consider that a single battle that decisively ends a war - a la Hastings in 1066 - are exceedingly rare in military history.  Even after great defeats, armies are often capable of slipping away to recuperate and rebuild.  Not here.  Furthermore, very few battles in the Civil War achieved anything like decisive results due to the limits of the technology, doctrine and training of the citizen armies involved.  That the Confederates would mount a massive 35,000-man charge into massed Union artillery after suffering greater-than-historical losses on 2 July seems really improbable.  It seems even less likely that a Union army that was so badly hurt could mount such a decisive end-the-war pursuit after Longstreet's attack fails.  In particular, this account tends to elevate Union General Hancock to Napoleonic stature - which is in vogue now thanks to his coronation as \\"a great general\\" in Shaara's classic, The Killer Angels.  Maybe if Hancock had succeeded Meade on 3 July he would have mounted an aggressive counterattack to crush the Confederates once and for all, but readers should consider that Hooker and Burnside had been aggressive corps commanders who choked when given the senior command.  Given the scenario presented here, Hancock would have been just as inclined to \\"play it safe\\" since both armies were essentially \\"fought out.\\"level detail which does not aid the reader's understanding of how this battle differs from the actual battle.  Furthermore, there is a gross insufficiency of sketch maps to follow the battle (nor can the readers use other books on Gettysburg, since the action deviates sharply from the historical dispositions), particularly in the crucial fighting on 2 July.  Sedgwick's Union VI Corps movements, which cause Longstreet's flanking attack to unravel, are not even depicted.  <br />As for the \\"alternate\\" outcome of this version of Gettysburg, southern readers will not be pleased.  Instead of merely suffering a major defeat as they actually did in July 1863, in this alternative history the Confederates suffer a military catastrophe that results in the war ending shortly thereafter.  Such a catastrophe was most improbable and readers should consider that a single battle that decisively ends a war - a la Hastings in 1066 - are exceedingly rare in military history.  Even after great defeats, armies are often capable of slipping away to recuperate and rebuild.  Not here.  Furthermore, very few battles in the Civil War achieved anything like decisive results due to the limits of the technology, doctrine and training of the citizen armies involved.  That the Confederates would mount a massive 35,000-man charge into massed Union artillery after suffering greater-than-historical losses on 2 July seems really improbable.  It seems even less likely that a Union army that was so badly hurt could mount such a decisive end-the-war pursuit after Longstreet's attack fails.  In particular, this account tends to elevate Union General Hancock to Napoleonic stature - which is in vogue now thanks to his coronation as \\"a great general\\" in Shaara's classic, The Killer Angels.  Maybe if Hancock had succeeded Meade on 3 July he would have mounted an aggressive counterattack to crush the Confederates once and for all, but readers should consider that Hooker and Burnside had been aggressive corps commanders who choked when given the senior command.  Given the scenario presented here, Hancock would have been just as inclined to \\"play it safe\\" since both armies were essentially \\"fought out.\\"	2002-09-02
1422211:US	52533596	R32G10T7H303A3	0812574664	265350166	Fox on the Rhine	Books	3	17	19	N	N	A Teutonic Fantasy	Bottom line: Fox on the Rhine is a darn good summer read. However, the co-author's claim that this book is a work of \\"alternative history\\" is stretching the definition of that nebulous term to the breaking point.  Rather, Fox on the Rhine is more of a Teutonic fantasy where the mighty Wehrmacht - free of the disastrous meddling of Hitler by a quirk of the author's pen - is free to wreak havoc upon the incompetent Anglo-Americans.  In this fantasy world, superior German leadership, technology and fighting ability can unite to reverse the inevitable Allied victory.  Bearing in mind that this is a work of fiction, the author's have absorbed enough information about the real Second World War to make their alternative outcome interesting  - even gripping at times - but ultimately not very credible.  Read this book, enjoy it, then throw it away.<br /> One particularly troubling area I have with the book - aside from the improbable characters and dialogue as mentioned by several other reviewers - is the way that the authors deal with troubling facts of the real world - they just wish them away.  A major case in point is the rugged terrain of the Ardennes, which was a crucial impediment to the German 1944 Winter Counteroffensive.  In real life, the German armor was very constricted on the small, muddy forest trails and roads and this greatly slowed their advance.  In Fox on the Rhine, where the authors imagine a stronger German counterattack with many more divisions, the Germans sail effortlessly across the rugged terrain to seize Bastogne, St Vith and Stavelot in just a couple days.  This is absurd.  More tanks and better commanders would not have speeded up the German advance one bit.  A second fact that the author's conveniently ignore is the remarkable ability of small ad hoc groups of American engineers, anti-aircraft and combat support units to put up credible delaying actions that greatly upset the German timetable.  In Fox on the Rhine, other than the author's spotlight unit, the fictional 19th Armored Division, no US units fight well in the Ardennes or inflict serious delay.  Taken together, these glaring omissions - terrain and US tenacity - make the German offensive into an almost cartoon adventure, with the Germans effortlessly overrunning big American supply depots (obviously, the Americans were too dumb to even blow them up before losing them).  Furthermore, this novel tends to reinforce the Nazi propaganda myth that American forces were helpless without air support and massive logistic support.  This is propaganda, not alternate history.<br /> The other major area that is troubling about the book is the near deification of Field Marshal Rommel.  In this work, Rommel is presented as a near-paragon: a military genius, a decent man and a German patriot.  There is no doubt that Rommel was one of the best German tactical commanders in the Second World War (and outstanding as a junior officer in the First World War), but he was far from perfect even in a military sense.  In North Africa, Rommel frequently demonstrated a shocking disregard for logistical realities - such as in his foolish \\"dash to the wire\\" in November 1941 - and he could also be very arrogant in dealing with other German commanders.  Rommel might have been admired, but he had few friends among his peers.  As for patriotism, Rommel was like the rest of the bunch who went along with Hitler when the Fuhrer was on a winning streak, but then rejected him once the specter of defeat appeared.  During the six weeks that Rommel commanded German forces in the Normandy campaign, he demonstrated competence but hardly genius.  The authors would have the reader believe that Rommel was such a military genius that his mere appearance at the front served to restore shattered morale and give the Wehrmacht a new chance for victory.  Yet if Rommel is able to do so much with so little in the retreat across France, why didn't he do a better job containing the Allies in Normandy when he had an even greater edge?  The reality that is missing from this fictional work is that individual leadership - no matter how imbued with professional expertise - is no equalizer against overwhelming material odds.  Napoleon was also faced with this situation in his last desperate campaign in France in 1814, and his genius was not enough to counterbalance a deteriorating military situation.<br /><br /> Finally, if the authors are going to change events on the German side of the deck, they should allow for a reverse dynamic. A critical omission is the lack of any Allied strategic debate after the unexpected German cease-fire agreement with the Soviets.  Instead of including all those useless scenes with Sergeant O'Dell, the authors should have included a scene or two depicting FDR and Churchill discussing policy changes.  Rather than see Greece or Norway go to the Soviets, Churchill would almost certainly have pushed for the First Allied Airborne Army to be dropped into either or both of those countries to forestall a Soviet occupation (remember, in this alternative Operation Market-Garden did not occur).  If the Germans had abandoned a \\"stand-or-die\\" policy in France due to the assassination of Hitler, the Falaise Pocket would probably not have occurred and the consequently stronger German defenses on the West Wall would have induced far greater Allied caution in approaching the German frontier.  Under these conditions, a German counterattack would have seemed more credible.  It is far less likely that the Allies would have thinned their sector in the Ardennes or failed to maintain a sizeable theater reserve if the Germans had saved so much of their armies from the French campaign.  Instead, the authors present a fantasy where the Germans are allowed to \\"correct\\" their actual historical mistakes but the Allies are static to the point of wooded-headedness.y when he had an even greater edge?  The reality that is missing from this fictional work is that individual leadership - no matter how imbued with professional expertise - is no equalizer against overwhelming material odds.  Napoleon was also faced with this situation in his last desperate campaign in France in 1814, and his genius was not enough to counterbalance a deteriorating military situation. <BR> <BR> Finally, if the authors are going to change events on the German side of the deck, they should allow for a reverse dynamic. A critical omission is the lack of any Allied strategic debate after the unexpected German cease-fire agreement with the Soviets.  Instead of including all those useless scenes with Sergeant O'Dell, the authors should have included a scene or two depicting FDR and Churchill discussing policy changes.  Rather than see Greece or Norway go to the Soviets, Churchill would almost certainly have pushed for the First Allied Airborne Army to be dropped into either or both of those countries to forestall a Soviet occupation (remember, in this alternative Operation Market-Garden did not occur).  If the Germans had abandoned a \\"stand-or-die\\" policy in France due to the assassination of Hitler, the Falaise Pocket would probably not have occurred and the consequently stronger German defenses on the West Wall would have induced far greater Allied caution in approaching the German frontier.  Under these conditions, a German counterattack would have seemed more credible.  It is far less likely that the Allies would have thinned their sector in the Ardennes or failed to maintain a sizeable theater reserve if the Germans had saved so much of their armies from the French campaign.  Instead, the authors present a fantasy where the Germans are allowed to \\"correct\\" their actual historical mistakes but the Allies are static to the point of wooded-headedness.	2002-09-02
1422448:US	52533596	R22XFPT6UR1020	1841764124	283971504	Culloden Moor 1746: The death of the Jacobite cause (Campaign)	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Butcher Cumberland's Finest Hour	In 1991, Osprey Campaign volume #12 by Peter Harrington covered the Culloden campaign of 1745-1746.  Now eleven years later, Osprey recovers the same ground with campaign volume #106 Culloden Moor by Stuart Reid.  Aside from the questionable logic of re-doing the same topics when so many other topics in military history remain neglected, Osprey has at least picked the right person to revisit this infamous campaign.  Stuart Reid, is an expert on the subject of Culloden and author of the ground-breaking accounts, Like Hungry Wolves and 1745: A Military History of the Jacobite Rising.  Reid's narrative is efficient and professional, and the graphic presentation methods of the campaign series have certainly improved over the past decade.  As to whether Reid's volume is better than Harrington's, I would say that both are good campaign summaries but they approach the subject from different angles.  Harrington's earlier volume dealt with the '45 as a whole, spending considerable effort discussing the battles of Prestonpans and Falkirk and only 41% on the Battle of Culloden itself.  Reid's account is more squarely focused on Culloden with 60% devoted to the battle, and much less to events preceding the battle.  Unlike Harrington, Reid does not even bother to discuss the flight of the Pretender or the brutal mop-up operations.  Therefore, Reid's account contains more battle narrative than Harrington's, but Harrington provides more background material on the campaign as a whole.<br />      Culloden Moor 1746 follows the standard Osprey campaign series format and begins with a short introduction and campaign chronology, followed by short but well-written sections on opposing commanders, opposing armies and opposing plans.  Reid includes orders of battle for the Dutch and Hessian auxiliary troops that served under British command, as well as the main Jacobite and British forces that fought at Culloden.  The campaign narrative itself, which covers the period January-April 1746,is 55 pages long.  Reid concludes with a brief aftermath section, notes on further reading and comments on the battlefield today.  There are five 2-D maps (Major troop movements in Britain, operations around Inverness, the Jacobite night march, initial dispositions at Culloden, and Culloden moor today) and three 3-D \\"Bird's Eye View\\" maps (Culloden opening moves, the Highland charge and the destruction of the Jacobite army).  There are also three full color battle scenes: the Highland charge at Prestonpans, The Royal Scots at Culloden and the Royal Ecossois at Culloden.  <br /> Reid makes a number of very good points about the weaknesses of British cavalry in the reconnaissance role, the Jacobite oatmeal stockpile in Inverness that was critical for their survival as an army, the operational choices facing the Jacobites in April 1746 (run and disperse, defend or attack) and the cautious but professional tactics of the British.  The author also makes insightful comment that the British infantry volleys at Culloden almost certainly caused far greater casualties to the Jacobites than the artillery barrage, which he reckons was shorter and less destructive than generally claimed.  Indeed, the reader is left with little doubt that Reid has mastered the historical details of this subject.  <br /> The only complaint with Reid's narrative applies equally to his other works on Culloden: a tendency to downplay British atrocities.  Nowhere in these pages do we find mention of \\"Butcher Cumberland,\\" the notorious accolade for the British commander who presided over one of the grimmer chapters in British military history.  Reid's bias is the standard device for those who wish to avoid dealing with black pages in their country's history: deny, minimize, ignore.  According to Reid, John Prebble, author of the classic Culloden in 1961, was too inclined to accept atrocity allegations at face value.  Reid denies the most vicious atrocity stories about Culloden - such as the alleged burning of Jacobite wounded in a farmhouse and bayoneting of wounded - but concedes that \\"isolated incidents\\" by the \\"vestry men\\" (British short-term conscripts) probably occurred.  Minimize: it wasn't the British army that did these atrocities, but if any occurred it must have been the draftees not the regulars.  Furthermore, the \\"everybody was doing approach\\" is employed by suggesting that other countries dealt just as harshly with rebels (this is really the \\"lowest common denominator\\" approach in suggesting that one's army merely need not act worse than any other army - say, the Turks - rather than setting any kind of higher standard).  Then, Reid has the audacity to state that, \\"the bitter legacy of those punitive expeditions [that followed the Battle of Culloden], justified as they were...\\" Murder and rape are justified?  Readers should consult Prebble's account to get a better understanding of the year-long killing, raping and looting spree that the British army undertook along the Great Glenn in reprisal for the Jacobite Uprising.  In particular, Prebble - unlike Reid - notes that the British were so indiscriminate in their reprisals that they often brutalized loyalist Scots who had supported the crown against the rebels.  Even if Prebble's account is too biased against the British as Reid claims, there is no doubt that the British punitive measures were very harsh indeed.  Furthermore, American readers should consider the brutal repressive measures that this same British army would use to combat American rebels thirty years later; British regulars bayoneted many unarmed American soldiers in the Gowanus Swamps outside New York in 1776 and Banastre Tarleton's atrocities in the south were infamous.  Reid's efforts to whitewash this sorry chapter in British military history are just as offensive as German historians attempting to minimize the activities of the SS or Japanese historians the Bataan Death March.  <br /> The fact is that Culloden was a seminal event inScottish history.  Reid's account is essentially an operational account that - while very good in the military realm - leaves out the true social, political and psychological context of this battle. The British used Culloden and the suppression of the Jacobites to crush any trace of Scottish independence for over a century and in that unstated sense, it was a national tragedy.	2002-09-02
1424116:US	52533596	R3M2VK7C0IHHKF	1841764086	811900133	Poland 1939: The birth of Blitzkrieg (Campaign)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Another Superb Zaloga Book	In the Osprey Campaign series volume, Poland 1939: the birth of Blitzkrieg, Stephen Zaloga, a renowned expert on armored vehicles and eastern European military affairs, continues his tireless effort to bring the facts to Western eyes of the opening round of the Second World War.  Readers familiar with Zaloga's 1985 full-length book The Polish Campaign 1939 will recognize the antecedents of this volume.  Zaloga, an American who has enjoyed extensive access to Polish historical archives, seeks to de-bunk the myths about the Polish campaign of 1939 which were perpetuated by wartime Nazi propaganda and post-war ignorance caused by the Iron Curtain.  Myths such as the tales of Polish cavalry charging German tanks with swords and the destruction of the Polish air force on the first day of the war are clearly exposed as falsehoods designed to boost Nazi military prowess to the world.  As usual, Zaloga brings his extensive analytic skills and language skills together in concert to produce a valuable piece of research that would otherwise be unavailable to most English readers.  <br /> Zaloga begins with a short introduction, a section on the origins of the campaign and a campaign chronology.  In standard Osprey Campaign series format, Zaloga then has three sections covering opposing commanders, opposing plans and opposing armies, which comprise nearly a quarter of the volume.  The campaign narrative itself, covering all major air and ground operations in the Polish theater between 1 September - 6 October 1939, is fifty pages long.  Zaloga concludes with a four page aftermath section, notes on the battlefield today and a rather detailed guide to further reading.  Ground order of battle information for the Germans, Poles and Soviets is provided, but there is unfortunately no listing of air units.  This volume has five 2-D maps (dispositions on 1, 7 and 17 September 1939 and two on the Bzura River counterattack) and three 3-D \\"Bird's Eye View\\" maps (the Polish defense of Westerplatte, the Battle of Mokra and the Battle for Warsaw).  There are also three excellent color battle scenes: the cavalry defense at Mokra, a Stuka attack and street fighting in Warsaw.  The overall graphic quality of this volume, including the numerous photographs, is excellent.  <br /> There are many strong points in this short volume, even if much of the research is merely a refinement from his earlier volume.  In particular, the defense conducted by a Polish Cavalry brigade at Mokra against the 4th Panzer Division on 1 September demonstrates that the initial German use of armored units in combat could be clumsy and costly at times.  Zaloga makes a good point that initially the German Luftwaffe was doctrinally un-prepared for close air support missions for the army and instead could only employ pre-planned strikes determined by the air staff; after two weeks of war the Germans slow introduced the close air support techniques that would be successful in 1940-1941 (does this initial inability to conduct CAS sound familiar to modern soldiers?).   Zaloga also makes a good point that the Poles did have some counterattack capabilities - they were not just punch dummies - and the Battle of the Bzura on 9-14 September 1939 caught the Germans over-extended.  In the initial attack, the Poles were able to force two German divisions to retreat and actually captured 1,500 prisoners!  Other interesting points include the fact that the Poles were the first to deploy tungsten-core anti-tank projectiles but the ammunition was developed as a \\"secret weapon\\" and not distributed until after the invasion began, thereby limiting its use.  Odd episodes, like the single Polish cavalry raid into East Prussia, a tank-versus-tank battle and a cavalry-versus-cavalry battle are also detailed.  <br /> Although Zaloga concedes that the outcome of the campaign was a foregone conclusion, particularly given Anglo-French passivity and Soviet aggression, he provides a valuable discussion on the twoopposing Polish concepts of defense.  The defense that made the most sense - concede the border areas and concentrate behind the Vistula River - was politically unacceptable, whereas the most politically palatable strategy - frontier defense - was militarily unsound.  The Poles reluctantly adopted the latter strategy out of the necessity to avoid German \\"nibbling tactics\\" against the disputed Danzig corridor; readers should note that this was the same strategic dilemma faced by NATO planners on the Central Front in the Cold War.  <br /> There are only two weaknesses in this otherwise superb account.  First, Zaloga is deficient in the opposing leaders section, as he usually is in these Osprey titles.  Zaloga spends three pages discussing the German leaders, but spends three-quarters of that space discussing the German High Command: Hitler, Keitel, Jodl, Brauchitsch and Halder.  The two German army group commanders in Poland - von Rundstedt and von Bock - receive only two short paragraphs.  General Blaskowitz is the only German army commander who receives more than cursory mention - the other four receive no mention.  Even Guderian - the pre-imminent panzer leader in Poland - receives almost no mention.  This section was poorly crafted, with too much emphasis on the strategic rather than operational leaders.  The other weakness in the book is that Zaloga appears to have accepted the misleading hypothesis that a major French attack might have saved Poland by causing a German collapse; this fallacious hypothesis was advanced by Ernest May in his book, Strange Victory.  As I noted in my review of May's book, this hypothesis is unsupportable and deeply flawed.  Even Zaloga should have noted that by the time that Gamelin promised to begin an offensive against German - two weeks after war began - the Germans had already overrun most of Poland and Soviet invasion was imminent. The Poles might have been impressed by French military prowess but they were also aware that French doctrine for \\"methodical battle\\" called for slow, carefully prepared offensives.  Thus even if the French had been able and willing to honor their promise of military aid, it would have been too late to save the Polish army.	2002-08-31
1426677:US	52533596	R2WHRE4X32KLUL	1853672653	321958226	Gettysburg: An Alternate History	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Disaster at Gettysburg	Peter G. Tsouras' Gettysburg: An Alternate History is an interesting investigation of intriguing \\"what if\\" issues surrounding the greatest battle of the American Civil War.  Military readers and historians will wade through the somewhat dry \\"blow-by-blow\\" and arrive at a better understanding of key issues of the battle which are not always obvious in accounts of the actual battle.  On the other hand, the general public will not find this book appealing at all but rather, tedious and confusing.<br />  Unlike other works of alternate history, which tend to effect only one change in a historical situation, Tsouras' narrative on Gettysburg poses five major changes.  These changes are: (1) what if Stuart had turned up sooner, on the evening of 1 July 1863? (2) what if Ewell had conducted a more vigorous pursuit onto Cemetery Hill and Culp's Hill on the night of 1 July? (3) what if Longstreet had persuaded Lee in allowing a wider Confederate envelopment of the Union left flank on 2 July? (4) what if the Confederates had mounted a larger, better coordinated assault against the Union center on 3 July? and (4) what if the Union had mounted a major counterattack after the failure of Longstreet's assault?  Tsouras has encompassed the most intriguing possibilities about the battle in this account, but it probably would have been better to \\"de-link\\" the alternate events by means of an anthology.  By putting all five alternatives into play in the same sequential account, plus other alternate events like Meade and Lee becoming casualties, the alternative nature of this account threatens to snowball out of control.<br />  Tsouras' alternate history does help to highlight certain aspects of the two armies that will be interesting to military readers.  First, the early return of Stuart demonstrates the reliance that Lee placed on that trusted commander, rather than just his five brigades of cavalry.  Actually, Lee retained several other brigades of cavalry under his control but failed to make use of them in Stuart's (historical) absence.  For Lee, Stuart was his Reconnaissance and Security (R&S) asset, not the actual cavalry units.  Instead of just moaning, \\"where is Stuart, where is Stuart?\\" the historical Lee should have been re-constituting his R&S capability from other cavalry available. This failure to adapt was a major command failure on Lee's part - which has been obscured in actual histories of the campaign - which tend to affix great blame on Stuart.  A second military issue that is revealed in this alternative history is the superior Union artillery organization (as opposed to technical and numerical superiority, which is frequently mentioned).  The Union artillery at Gettysburg was under the firm central control of Major General Hunt, who coordinated both the artillery reserve and corps artillery.  On the other hand, the Army of Northern Virginia maintained much weaker control over its artillery, lacking a central artillery reserve or a senior officer willing to coordinate the artillery of its three corps.  Military readers will see in this issue the antecedents of the argument between \\"decentralization\\" and \\"centralization\\" in fire support with the latter winning in this case.  Indeed, Tsouras' alternative clearly places the Union artillery center stage because three times it is the artillery that saves the Army of the Potomac when the Confederates achieve breakthroughs.  The need to mass and redeploy artillery quickly was less urgent in the actual battle, but a major asset of the Union army nevertheless.<br />  The weakest aspects of this alternative history are the chosen methodology and insufficient maps to follow the narrative. Tsouras follows in the footsteps of legendary Gettysburg park historian Harry Pfanz and elects to describe the movements, attacks and retreats of virtually every regiment in the battle.  This is tedious and unenlightening.  At times, the narrative becomes clogged and confusing, with too much low-level detail which does not aid the reader's understanding of how this battle differs from the actual battle.  Furthermore, there is a gross insufficiency of sketch maps to follow the battle (nor can the readers use other books on Gettysburg, since the action deviates sharply from the historical dispositions), particularly in the crucial fighting on 2 July.  Sedgwick's Union VI Corps movements, which cause Longstreet's flanking attack to unravel, are not even depicted.<br />  As for the \\"alternate\\" outcome of this version of Gettysburg, southern readers will not be pleased.  Instead of merely suffering a major defeat as they actually did in July 1863, in this alternative history the Confederates suffer a military catastrophe that results in the war ending shortly thereafter.  Such a catastrophe was most improbable and readers should consider that a single battle that decisively ends a war - a la Hastings in 1066 - are exceedingly rare in military history. Even after great defeats, armies are often capable of slipping away to recuperate and rebuild.  Not here.  Furthermore, very few battles in the Civil War achieved anything like decisive results due to the limits of the technology, doctrine and training of the citizen armies involved.  That the Confederates would mount a massive 35,000-man charge into massed Union artillery after suffering greater-than-historical losses on 2 July seems really improbable.  It seems even less likely that a Union army that was so badly hurt could mount such a decisive end-the-war pursuit after Longstreet's attack fails.  In particular, this account tends to elevate Union General Hancock to Napoleonic stature - which is in vogue now thanks to his coronation as \\"a great general\\" in Shaara's classic, The Killer Angels.  Maybe if Hancock had succeeded Meade on 3 July he would have mounted an aggressive counterattack to crush the Confederates once and for all, but readers should consider that Hooker and Burnside had been aggressive corps commanders who choked when given the senior command.  Given the scenario presented here, Hancock would have been just as inclined to \\"play it safe\\" since both armies were essentially \\"fought out.\\"too much low-level detail which does not aid the reader's understanding of how this battle differs from the actual battle.  Furthermore, there is a gross insufficiency of sketch maps to follow the battle (nor can the readers use other books on Gettysburg, since the action deviates sharply from the historical dispositions), particularly in the crucial fighting on 2 July.  Sedgwick's Union VI Corps movements, which cause Longstreet's flanking attack to unravel, are not even depicted.  <br />        As for the \\"alternate\\" outcome of this version of Gettysburg, southern readers will not be pleased.  Instead of merely suffering a major defeat as they actually did in July 1863, in this alternative history the Confederates suffer a military catastrophe that results in the war ending shortly thereafter.  Such a catastrophe was most improbable and readers should consider that a single battle that decisively ends a war - a la Hastings in 1066 - are exceedingly rare in military history. Even after great defeats, armies are often capable of slipping away to recuperate and rebuild.  Not here.  Furthermore, very few battles in the Civil War achieved anything like decisive results due to the limits of the technology, doctrine and training of the citizen armies involved.  That the Confederates would mount a massive 35,000-man charge into massed Union artillery after suffering greater-than-historical losses on 2 July seems really improbable.  It seems even less likely that a Union army that was so badly hurt could mount such a decisive end-the-war pursuit after Longstreet's attack fails.  In particular, this account tends to elevate Union General Hancock to Napoleonic stature - which is in vogue now thanks to his coronation as \\"a great general\\" in Shaara's classic, The Killer Angels.  Maybe if Hancock had succeeded Meade on 3 July he would have mounted an aggressive counterattack to crush the Confederates once and for all, but readers should consider that Hooker and Burnside had been aggressive corps commanders who choked when given the senior command.  Given the scenario presented here, Hancock would have been just as inclined to \\"play it safe\\" since both armies were essentially \\"fought out.\\"	2002-08-28
1441080:US	52533596	R35KAK37JKF8PE	1841580449	62405782	Fleet that had to Die	Books	3	32	34	N	Y	Still Interesting but Dated	The Fleet That Had to Die, written in 1957, is a dated but still interesting account of the epic voyage of the Russian Baltic Fleet around the world in 1904-1905 until its destruction at the Battle of Tsushima.  The author's style was intended for mass-market audiences not scholars, and some readers may cringe at a comment in the foreword that, \\"this book is not primarily concerned with history...\\"  Furthermore, the author's introduction to the second edition includes a ridiculous statement that, \\"the Soviet Navy today [May 1975] has become the most powerful in the world...\\" which was false when written and appears laughable now.  This book is best read in tandem with the recent Russian account, The Tsar's Last Armada, by Constantine Pleshakov.<br />  The book consists of 12 short chapters, four appendices, 14 photographs and several sketch maps.  Oddly, the author does not provide an order of battle for either side at the Battle of Tsushima.  Although the author is impressed by the 18,000-mile voyage of the Russian fleet - calling it \\"one of the most remarkable voyages in maritime history\\" - there is a faint anti-Russian tone throughout these pages and even the title suggests a tragic inevitability.  At one point, Hough commits overkill by referring to the fleet as, \\"a raw squadron that could scarcely maintain station in a flat calm on a steady course.\\"  Readers should remember that Britain was incensed at the Russian Baltic Fleet after the \\"Dogger Bank incident\\" where the Russian warships mistakenly fired on part of the Hull fishing fleet.  Some of the lingering anti-Russian bias intrudes into Hough's account.<br />  One area that Hough's account excels is in his discussion of the Russian battleships, their crews and the logistics of the voyage.  The Russian Baltic Fleet was centered upon the four new battleships of the \\"Borodino\\" class, but these were poorly designed vessels.  Modern fire control equipment was only installed at the last minute and the gun crews were never allowed to practice with it and live ammunition before Tsushima, which no doubt contributed to the abysmal Russian gunnery.  Furthermore, the battleships were so top heavy that captains were ordered to, \\"avoid hoisting all but essential signals from the yards.\\"  Vice-Admiral Rozhestvensky, the fleet commander, exacerbated the problem by over-loading the battleships with coal and this made the ships slow and unwieldy in battle.  However, in constantly referring to the battleships as \\"ironclads,\\" Hough is both inaccurate and tedious (since the fleet included no wooden vessels, all ships were made of steel).<br />  Hough does shed some interesting light on the Dogger Bank incident.  Both before and after that senseless incident, Russian spotters reported sighting \\"enemy balloons\\" and other nonsensical items.  Apparently, not only were the average Russian sailors totally untrained in observation at sea, but also their gullible officers seemed inclined to accept all sightings at face value.  During the Dogger Bank incident, Hough notes that the Russian flagship at one point was firing on a British fishing boat only 100 yards away and continued to misidentify it as a Japanese torpedo boat!  Essentially, the incident was a result of inadequate Russian training and paranoia.<br />  The character of Rozhestvensky is addressed at length in Hough's account, but not as well as Pleshakov's newer account (Hough misses the presence of the admiral's mistress on the fleet hospital ship).  During the long, tiring voyage, Hough notes that whenever delays or problems occurred that Rozhestvensky \\"always responded to this sort of frustration by fits of uncontrollable rage...\\" which is not an effective command style.  As the crews suffered from declining morale, Rozhestvensky became sullen and withdrawn, refusing to divulge his plans to his subordinates.  At the Battle of Tsushima, Hough notes that Rozhestvensky issued only two orders and that these lead to confusion and chaos in the Russian fleet.  Lacking a real plan of battle, Rozhestvensky's approach to the battle appears fatalistic and reliant on luck rather than skill.  Instead, Hough concludes that, \\"the Battle of Tsushima...was to be lost by the momentary hesitancy of a tired and wasted admiral who could not make up his mind...\\"<br />  In one of the appendices, Hough includes the post-war account of Rear-Admiral Nebogatoff, who was the Russian second-in-command at Tsushima.  Although Nebogatoff's account is very self-serving and designed to cover up his own misdeeds in the battle, he does make some valid points.  According to Nebogatoff, the Russian defeat was primarily due to three factors: the deficiencies of the Russian warships and their crews, the poor leadership of Rozhestvensky and the choice of the route through Tsushima Straits.  In particular, Nebogatoff criticizes Rozhestvensky's lack of pre-battle instructions and poor tactical handling of the fleet.  Nebogatoff also asserts that if he had been asked his opinion, that he would have recommended a passage to Vladivostok through the safer La Perousse Strait.  While Nebogatoff ignores the logistic dimension of this longer route, he is probably correct that more Russian ships might have made it to Vladivostok by this more circuitous, but less well-guarded, route.  However given the fall of Port Arthur prior to the fleet's arrival in Pacific waters, it is unlikely that Rozhestvensky's poorly-trained armada could have reversed Russia's disastrous military situation even if more of it had reached Vladivostok.onfusion and chaos in the Russian fleet.  Lacking a real plan of battle, Rozhestvensky's approach to the battle appears fatalistic and reliant on luck rather than skill.  Instead, Hough concludes that, \\"the Battle of Tsushima...was to be lost by the momentary hesitancy of a tired and wasted admiral who could not make up his mind...\\"<br />    In one of the appendices, Hough includes the post-war account of Rear-Admiral Nebogatoff, who was the Russian second-in-command at Tsushima.   Although Nebogatoff's account is very self-serving and designed to cover up his own misdeeds in the battle, he does make some valid points.  According to Nebogatoff, the Russian defeat was primarily due to three factors: the deficiencies of the Russian warships and their crews, the poor leadership of Rozhestvensky and the choice of the route through Tsushima Straits.  In particular, Nebogatoff criticizes Rozhestvensky's lack of pre-battle instructions and poor tactical handling of the fleet.  Nebogatoff also asserts that if he had been asked his opinion, that he would have recommended a passage to Vladivostok through the safer La Perousse Strait.  While Nebogatoff ignores the logistic dimension of this longer route, he is probably correct that more Russian ships might have made it to Vladivostok by this more circuitous, but less well-guarded, route.  However given the fall of Port Arthur prior to the fleet's arrival in Pacific waters, it is unlikely that Rozhestvensky's poorly-trained armada could have reversed Russia's disastrous military situation even if more of it had reached Vladivostok.	2002-08-15
1449742:US	52533596	RTU03FZA7LS1T	0815410530	939444090	Agincourt	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Henry V: a great hero or lucky thug?	Although succinct, Christopher Hibbert's account of Henry V's campaign in France in 1415, culminating in the amazing Battle of Agincourt, remains a fascinating read for serious students of history.  Agincourt consists of ten short chapters, beginning with the preparations for Henry V's expedition to France, the siege of Harfleur, the crossing of the Somme River, the battle of Agincourt itself, and the aftermath of the battle.  There are several sketch maps, which while conveying the basic data, but no more.  The author also includes five appendices: genealogical tables for the French and English kings, one of Henry V's campaign contracts, Henry V's retinue, Henry V's ordinances of war and Henry's challenge to the Dauphin.  I have read other accounts of Agincourt, but there is little doubt that Hibbert's writing style, command of relevant sources and analysis makes this one of the best modern accounts available.  Most important, the author challenges the reader to assess Henry V's character and skill in light of all the facts, good and bad.<br />  A distinguishing feature of this account is the author's use of statistics to reinforce his narrative; for example, the author notes the huge amount of horses that were taken with the English expedition - about 25,000 (for an army that had only 10,000 fighting men).  Also, Hibbert details the costly financial side of the expedition - the English army was becoming professional and expensive - and Henry V was forced to pawn some of his crowns to gain the sums required.  Hibbert also discusses the English military preparations in great detail and notes that Henry required all of his troops to wear a large red St George's cross on front and back for identification - a first.<br />  Hibbert's discussion of the entire 1415 Campaign is incisive and is surprisingly open to criticism of Henry V, which is amazing given the traditional hero worship accorded the young king.  Since the great victory at Agincourt and Shakespeare's version of it, Henry V has ridden off into history as the \\"the greatest Englishman of his time\\" and \\"England's greatest soldier.\\"  However, an objective reader - bearing in mind moral and cultural differences of the 15th Century - will find it hard to admire Henry V in this account.  Henry V was so determined to invade France and assert his dubious claims on territory there that he continually rejected French efforts at negotiation (the French made very generous offers, which he would have been a greater king to accept).  Hibbert includes one odd letter Henry V wrote to the French king demanding that the French concede his ridiculous claims and, \\"in the name of the merciful bowels of Jesus Christ to do us justice.\\"  Instead of a hero, Henry V appears more like a glory-hound or land-hungry thug.<br />  Henry's generalship is also in question for three reasons: Harfleur, the Somme crossing and choice of battle at Agincourt.  After landing in France, Henry spent weeks besieging Harfleur, costing his army many casualties due to illness.  Once he had Harfleur, the victory was hollow because it didn't lead to any useful result - just one more position to defend in France - and Henry opted to march toward Calais hoping for something more substantial to turn up.  Henry's plan to cross the Somme was blocked by a fast-moving French advance guard and Hibbert notes that the English king was \\"outgeneraled\\" in the first phase of the campaign.  Hibbert's description of the incredibly awkward English crossing at the Voyenne ford is surely no indication of great generalship and one wonders what might have occurred if the nearby French army had caught the English in mid-crossing.  Even at Agincourt, the French initially appeared to hold the advantage by getting ahead of Henry and blocking his path to Calais with an army four times the size of his own tired, depleted force.  If the French did not attack, but merely blockaded the small English army, Henry would have been in a desperate position.  Instead, Henry used the French command confusion to move up his army and sting the reluctant French into a poorly executed frontal attack that ended in disaster.  To be sure, Hibbert points out that Henry was a brave soldier, in the thick of the fight, and that his bold, confident attitude spurred his troops to victory.  The French army, although large in size, suffered from divided command, whereas the small English army enjoyed unity of command.<br />  Still, the reader might wonder how the English would have fared if the French had been able to mount effective flank attacks through the woods.  Also, the English use of hasty field obstacles - sharpened stakes - raises the issue, what if the French had used obstacles as well?  If the French had emplaced obstacles to their front and covered them with artillery and crossbowmen, Henry might not have brought the French to grips.  Indeed, a French Fabian strategy in 1415 would have quickly exposed the strategic poverty of Henry's expedition.in a desperate position.  Instead, Henry used the French command confusion to move up his army and sting the reluctant French into a poorly executed frontal attack that ended in disaster.  To be sure, Hibbert points out that Henry was a brave soldier, in the thick of the fight, and that his bold, confident attitude spurred his troops to victory.  The French army, although large in size, suffered from divided command, whereas the small English army enjoyed unity of command.  <br />   Still, the reader might wonder how the English would have fared if the French had been able to mount effective flank attacks through the woods.  Also, the English use of hasty field obstacles - sharpened stakes - raises the issue, what if the French had used obstacles as well?  If the French had emplaced obstacles to their front and covered them with artillery and crossbowmen, Henry might not have brought the French to grips.  Indeed, a French Fabian strategy in 1415 would have quickly exposed the strategic poverty of Henry's expedition.	2002-08-07
1454534:US	52533596	R62GJF4T4O036	1841763667	903746481	D-Day 1944 (3) Sword Beach & British Airborne Landings	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Yeoman's Effort	The latest Osprey campaign title on the British D-Day landings at Sword Beach and the 6th Airborne Division landings represents a mixed big.  On the one hand, Sword Beach is a well written and attractive synthesis of the critical eastern flank of the Allied invasion.  On the other hand, this book is hardly original and in light of the excellent Battleground Europe title Sword Beach by Tom Kilvert-Jones last year, Ken Ford's effort seems to be following in well-worn tracks.  Despite the plethora of other titles on this subject, Ford renders a yeoman's effort and has produced a worthwhile summary of the British campaign in and around Sword Beach in June-July 1944.  The title deserves five stars for content, three for originality and thus a compromise four stars.<br /> Ford begins with a short section that introduces the origins of the battle and emphasizes that the seizure of the French city of Caen was regarded by Montgomery as the key to the British landing.  After a detailed chronology, the author provides a short section on opposing leaders and then a seven-page section on opposing armies.  The author makes good points about the British substitution of self-propelled artillery and anti-tank in the assaulting 3rd Division, but tends to unduly denigrate the German 21st Panzer Division.  Ford is a bit vague about the 21st Panzer - which is odd because Colonel Hans van Luck's account of that unit in Normandy has been available for more than a decade - and suggests that the unit was not really combat worthy and composed of cast-off men and equipment.  The real reason the 21st Panzer was not rated fit for service on the Russian Front was due to its lack of a Panther tank battalion, but it substituted an assault gun battalion and was a fairly heavy unit.  The reason for the unit's poor performance on D-Day was not due to poor leadership or poor quality troops but rather, due to high-level confusion and tangled command control relationships.  Various German commanders, from Runstedt and Rommel, down to the local Corps and division commanders, vacillated between going after the British airborne, going after the sea borne landing or waiting to launch a properly coordinated assault in strength.  Ford then covers the opposing plans in seven pages.  The British 6th Airborne Division landings are covered in 17 pages, followed by 29 pages on the Sword Beach landings, 6 pages on expanding the bridgehead after D-Day, and a short aftermath.  A ground order of battle for both sides is provided.  This volume has five 2-D maps (British 6th Airborne landing areas, German defenses in Sword Beach area, the landings on Sword Beach,  the Allied lodgment at the end of D-Day, the Battle for Caen) and three 3-D \\"Bird's Eye View\\" maps (British airborne landings, Sword Beach landings, 21st Panzer counterattack).  There are also three excellent color battle scenes: the seizure of Pegasus Bridge, No. 4 Commando moves inland and the capture of Hillman position.<br /> Overall, Ford's summary of the British operations in this sector of D-Day is accurate and succinct.  Unfortunately, the author falls into the ex post facto trap of suggesting that once the British failed to take Caen on D-Day that Montgomery then planned to pin down most of the German armor in the eastern sector of Normandy so that the Americans could break out in the west.  This is a post-war rationalization pushed by Montgomery's adherents, which conceals the reality that Montgomery had intended to seize Caen and exploit with armor on the eastern flank but he repeatedly failed to accomplish this.  Furthermore, the author tends to blame the 3rd Division commander for failing to seize Caen but ignores the plethora of missions given to this unit (seize Caen, link-up with airborne, link-up with Canadians, repel German counterattack and eliminate resistance nests in sector).  Although landings of the British airborne were a great tactical success they were operationally sterile because Montgomery wanted to drive southward, not eastward.  If Montgomery really wanted Caen on D-Day, he should have dropped at least one airborne brigade on the northern outskirts of Caen, which might have resulted in seizure of at least half the city on D-Day.  Too much effort was put east of the Orne River, for negligible gain.  The British drive inland was also delayed for seven critical hours by the 150 German defenders in the Hillman position behind Sword Beach (one wonders where all the 79th Armored Division \\"funnies\\" - tanks specifically designed to deal with bunkers and obstacles - were during this period); the author views the capture of Hillman as an out-an-out victory but in reality, the stubborn defense of that position upset the British timetable.<br /> Readers interested in Sword Beach should use this book in conjunction with Kilvert-Jones book, because taken together they pack a lot of information and insight on this subject.  Standing alone, Ken Ford's book lacks some of the depth needed for really understanding why the British failed to achieve all their D-Day objectives and why the German counterattacks were so ineffective. Readers should also consult Robert Kershaw's excellent Piercing the Atlantic Wall, which offers more material on the British landings.  Oddly, Ford makes little mention of Allied casualties at any point, so readers will have to consult other sources for that type of detail.  However one area where Ford out-classes Kilvert-Jones' book is on information about the battlefield today, particularly concerning the German bunker-turned museum in Ouistreham and the Merville Battery.ery wanted to drive southward, not eastward.  If Montgomery really wanted Caen on D-Day, he should have dropped at least one airborne brigade on the northern outskirts of Caen, which might have resulted in seizure of at least half the city on D-Day.  Too much effort was put east of the Orne River, for negligible gain.  The British drive inland was also delayed for seven critical hours by the 150 German defenders in the Hillman position behind Sword Beach (one wonders where all the 79th Armored Division \\"funnies\\" - tanks specifically designed to deal with bunkers and obstacles - were during this period); the author views the capture of Hillman as an out-an-out victory but in reality, the stubborn defense of that position upset the British timetable.  <br /> Readers interested in Sword Beach should use this book in conjunction with Kilvert-Jones book, because taken together they pack a lot of information and insight on this subject.  Standing alone, Ken Ford's book lacks some of the depth needed for really understanding why the British failed to achieve all their D-Day objectives and why the German counterattacks were so ineffective. Readers should also consult Robert Kershaw's excellent Piercing the Atlantic Wall, which offers more material on the British landings.  Oddly, Ford makes little mention of Allied casualties at any point, so readers will have to consult other sources for that type of detail.  However one area where Ford out-classes Kilvert-Jones' book is on information about the battlefield today, particularly concerning the German bunker-turned museum in Ouistreham and the Merville Battery.	2002-08-02
1457299:US	52533596	R393PYUKID601	185367446X	999618445	Rising Sun Victorious	Books	3	25	32	N	Y	Interesting but one-sided	This collection of alternative histories of the Pacific War, superbly edited by Peter G. Tsouras, is at once enlightening and entertaining.  In ten essays, the various authors provide much intellectual fodder on how various changes might have influenced the outcome of the war.  This book will particularly appeal to military professionals or those readers interested in military history, but the general public will find many of the essays too technical.  However, the reader should be aware that the alternative nature of this history tends toward the one-sided in Japan's favor (it would have been more interesting if their were at least some chapters that favored the US side, like what if the US defenses at Pearl Harbor had been alerted prior to the Japanese attack.) and this can be annoying at times.  Most soldiers know that war is the realm of chance and that luck favors each side sooner or later; to presume that only one side enjoys all the luck in a war seems to violate one of the basic laws of human conflict.  The other issue is that virtually all the essays suggest that victory could have hinged on one \\"winner-take-all battle,\\" and had Japan fought its \\"decisive battle\\" on its terms the outcome could have been different.  The idea of single, decisive battles swinging on chance is a favorite for alternate histories and is mostly nonsense; throughout military history, there are few examples of single battles like Hastings in 1066 that decide major wars.  Thus, all the changes in this anthology hinge on operational or strategic decisions that Japan could have made differently, not on anything involving diplomacy or technical innovation.<br /> The approach of this anthology, which focuses very heavily on the purely military level, tends to avoid any examination of the Japanese centers of gravity.  At the strategic level, the Bushido warrior code among the Japanese military elite and its acceptance by the general populace provided the Japanese with intense motivation and tenacity (take Bushido out of the equation and there would have been kamikazes or suicidal island defenses) and this center of gravity was not broken until the atomic bomb raids of 1945.  However, the Japanese operational center of gravity was their mobile carrier fleet which - while powerful - was also very fragile.  The Japanese never had more than six fleet carriers with 430 aircraft available, with very little ability to replace losses quickly.  In the essay \\"Nagumo's Luck,\\" where the Japanese win the Battle of Midway (in itself a plausible event), the author posits an outcome where the Japanese sink all three US carriers at virtually no cost to themselves.  This is not alternate history, but bunk.  In all four carrier-vs-carrier battles in 1942, both sides were always able to inflict significant damage on each other, despite quantitative and qualitative imbalances.  By the end of 1942, virtually all the pre-war US or Japanese fleet carriers had been sunk or damaged.  Thus even if Japan had won at Midway - a distinct possibility - they would have lost carriers and aircraft that they could not easily replace.  No author here mentions that the US commissioned 13 capital ships in 1942-3, against only 3 Japanese capital ships.  Once the Japanese operational center of gravity was eroded - as it surely must if they maintained protracted offensive operations - Japan would be forced into a relatively static defense.  Furthermore, no author in this collection addresses the twin nemeses for the Japanese: US submarines and long-range bombers.  After a slow start, both US subs and bombers inflicted enormous military and economic damage on the Japanese war machine and the Japanese were never able to effectively counter these threats.  An interesting essay might have been, what if the Japanese had invested more in ASW or air defense technology prior to the war and adapted quicker.  Bottom line: no matter how much better Nagumo's carriers did, attrition was more of a threatto Japan than the US and Japan lacked the resources to pose multiple operational threats to the USA.<br /> Japan fought the war mostly on the emotional level, the Americans primarily on the industrial level.  These essays tend to ignore that dichotomy and downplay American material resources, as well as the will to use it.  Probably the worst essays are the last two, which suggest that a Japanese \\"victory\\" at Leyte Gulf (in which they still lose half their remaining fleet) or a repulse of Operation Olympic could have led to cease fires rather than unconditional surrender.  Incredibly, the last author seems to feel that the US could not replace 29,000 combat casualties in a defeat on Japan's shore - what about the millions of troops just freed up in Europe?  The idea that the United States could not accept large casualties seems a post-Vietnam anachronism that would be inappropriate for 1944-1945.  Furthermore, all the author's ignore the value of the United States fighting in a coalition; unlike the too-distant, self-centered Axis alliance, the Anglo-American alliance was capable of reacting to setbacks and providing a common response. For example, after the heavy American carrier losses in 1942, the British \\"loaned\\" the US Pacific fleet the new carrier HMS Victorious for ten months.  While hard-pressed itself in 1942-1943, Britain could and did share resources with the US and greater Japanese successes in the Pacific in 1942 would probably have resulted in greater Allied cooperation.<br /> All these points are not meant to denigrate what is in many respects a fine book.  However these points are made to highlight the essentially one-dimensional (i.e. operational) nature of most of the essays and the lack of a true combat dynamic.  Clausewitz said that war was an action-reaction dynamic, where each fighter attempts to disarm the other.  If you must write alternate history, this dynamic should be included, rather than one-sided scenarios wherein one side is bold and wise, and the other side are little more than fish in a barrel.at to Japan than the US and Japan lacked the resources to pose multiple operational threats to the USA.  <br /> Japan fought the war mostly on the emotional level, the Americans primarily on the industrial level.  These essays tend to ignore that dichotomy and downplay American material resources, as well as the will to use it.  Probably the worst essays are the last two, which suggest that a Japanese \\"victory\\" at Leyte Gulf (in which they still lose half their remaining fleet) or a repulse of Operation Olympic could have led to cease fires rather than unconditional surrender.  Incredibly, the last author seems to feel that the US could not replace 29,000 combat casualties in a defeat on Japan's shore - what about the millions of troops just freed up in Europe?   The idea that the United States could not accept large casualties seems a post-Vietnam anachronism that would be inappropriate for 1944-1945.  Furthermore, all the author's ignore the value of the United States fighting in a coalition; unlike the too-distant, self-centered Axis alliance, the Anglo-American alliance was capable of reacting to setbacks and providing a common response. For example, after the heavy American carrier losses in 1942, the British \\"loaned\\" the US Pacific fleet the new carrier HMS Victorious for ten months.  While hard-pressed itself in 1942-1943, Britain could and did share resources with the US and greater Japanese successes in the Pacific in 1942 would probably have resulted in greater Allied cooperation.<br /> All these points are not meant to denigrate what is in many respects a fine book.  However these points are made to highlight the essentially one-dimensional (i.e. operational) nature of most of the essays and the lack of a true combat dynamic.  Clausewitz said that war was an action-reaction dynamic, where each fighter attempts to disarm the other.  If you must write alternate history, this dynamic should be included, rather than one-sided scenarios wherein one side is bold and wise, and the other side are little more than fish in a barrel.	2002-07-31
1469509:US	52533596	R1SXWLL58WMJWE	075241979X	372332899	Barbarossa: Hitler's Invasion of Russia 1941 (Battles & Campaigns)	Books	4	44	46	N	N	Fresh Perspectives and Info, As Usual	Barbarossa: Hitler's Invasion of Russia in 1941 is the lead volume in a new Battles & Campaigns series by Tempus Publishing that seeks to draw \\"on the latest research and integrating the experience of combat with intelligence, logistics and strategy.\\"  The author, David M. Glantz, is an acknowledged expert on the Russo-German conflict and over the past decade, his assiduous research has over-turned many pre-existing notions about that conflict.  This volume on Barbarossa, while vaguely reminiscent of an Osprey series campaign title, continues in the research tradition that Glantz used in earlier volumes.  Barbarossa is a bit overly succinct at times - the reader may wish that the book was not part of a tightly-constrained series - but Glantz succeeds in delivering an excellent account of the 1941 German campaign in Russia that breaks significant new ground.  Furthermore, Glantz combines excellent research with top-notch military analysis.<br /> Barbarossa consists of nine chapters, beginning with a 22-page opening section on opposing forces and plans.  Glantz moves through this opening section quickly, but highlights the main strengths and weaknesses of each side.  The next two chapters cover the initial border battles and the Soviet response; these chapters were a bit too succinct and readers should consult Glantz's earlier The Initial Period of War on the Eastern Front and Stumbling Colossus for greater detail.  The three middle chapters cover the battles for Smolensk, Leningrad and Kiev.  The Battle for Moscow and the Soviet Winter Counteroffensive are covered in the final three chapters.  Glantz provides appendices listing German planning documents for Barbarossa, Soviet documents and opposing orders of battle in June 1941.  There are about 200 photographs in the volume, as well as about one dozen sketch maps.  Inadequate maps are usually the only weakness in books by Glantz and he continues that trend in Barbarossa; the maps are too few and too poorly presented to enable the reader to follow most of the actions described.  A bibliography and detailed end notes complement the text.<br /> Glantz contradicts several popular notions about Barbarossa, and he has the archival data to back up his claims.  The trendy hypothesis of recent years that Germany could have won the war by taking Moscow in September 1941 had not Hitler meddled with his \\"Kiev diversion\\" is exposed as facile.  Before Hitler ordered the Kiev encirclement, fewer than 3 million German soldiers were facing 5 million Soviet soldiers, but after the encirclement this ratio had improved to 3:4.  Many authors ignore the fact that Soviet resistance had stiffened during the Smolensk fighting, inflicting the first serious disruptions to the German plan.  Hitler went south and north in September because the road to Moscow was effectively barred, and he went for easy pickings.  However, a month later, everything had changed.  Glantz shows how Soviet historians concealed the ill-judged Soviet counter-offensive in September that depleted their reserves around Moscow.  When the German panzers turned again toward Moscow in October, the Soviet armies were caught off-balance still in an offensive posture and the result was the catastrophic encirclement battles at Vyazma-Bryansk.  Glantz concludes that, \\"the Wehrmacht's best opportunity for capturing Moscow occurred in October 1941 rather than September.\\"<br /> Although this book is written primarily at the army and corps level, Glantz does take time to focus on some of the brigade and division-size units that made vital contributions.  There are blind spots in this account, particularly concerning air operations.  For example, there is no mention of the key role played by Richtofen's 8th Air Corps in spearheading the Blitzkrieg or the German air raids on Moscow.  Nor is their much mention of German supply difficulties and inability to assess Soviet mobilization capabilities, despite the fact that this series is intended to incorporate logistic and intelligence perspectives.  On the operational level, Glantz sometimes glosses over significant actions such as the failure of the SS Das Reich Division to breakthrough the Soviet defense at Borodino in October 1941 - an action which probably saved the capital.  Glantz also ignores the  Soviet air deployment of an airborne corps to Orel to help delay Guderian's panzers - a unique operation by any standard.  However, the culprit of these omissions is probably the series editor, rather than the author.<br /> Why did Barbarossa fail?  Glantz believes that \\"the most significant factor in the Red Army's ability to defeat Operation Barbarossa was its ability to raise and field strategic reserves.\\"  The German panzer groups annihilated one Soviet army after another, only to face a new wall of defenders.  While the defending Soviet forces around Moscow received about 75 division equivalents during October-November 1941, the attacking Germans received not one new division.  Stalin, unlike Hitler in 1941, believed in total mobilization.  Furthermore, the bad weather explanation has been used by Germans to conceal a host of operational errors and reckless contempt for a resilient enemy.  Glantz believes that poor logistics, rather than bad weather, was responsible for bringing the German offensive to a halt.  While the Russian mud and earlier winter hindered German mobility, Glantz notes that the first serious frostbite cases did not occur until after the German offensive had shot its bolt.  Overall, Barbarossa is a fine summary of the 1941 campaign and it succeeds - as always with this author - in delivering fresh information and perspectives on the decisive theater of the Second World War.o incorporate logistic and intelligence perspectives.  On the operational level, Glantz sometimes glosses over significant actions such as the failure of the SS Das Reich Division to breakthrough the Soviet defense at Borodino in October 1941 - an action which probably saved the capital.  Glantz also ignores the   Soviet air deployment of an airborne corps to Orel to help delay Guderian's panzers - a unique operation by any standard.  However, the culprit of these omissions is probably the series editor, rather than the author.<br /> Why did Barbarossa fail?  Glantz believes that \\"the most significant factor in the Red Army's ability to defeat Operation Barbarossa was its ability to raise and field strategic reserves.\\"  The German panzer groups annihilated one Soviet army after another, only to face a new wall of defenders.  While the defending Soviet forces around Moscow received about 75 division equivalents during October-November 1941, the attacking Germans received not one new division.  Stalin, unlike Hitler in 1941, believed in total mobilization.  Furthermore, the bad weather explanation has been used by Germans to conceal a host of operational errors and reckless contempt for a resilient enemy.  Glantz believes that poor logistics, rather than bad weather, was responsible for bringing the German offensive to a halt.  While the Russian mud and earlier winter hindered German mobility, Glantz notes that the first serious frostbite cases did not occur until after the German offensive had shot its bolt.  Overall, Barbarossa is a fine summary of the 1941 campaign and it succeeds - as always with this author - in delivering fresh information and perspectives on the decisive theater of the Second World War.	2002-07-19
1486487:US	52533596	R2MS23R1WWT8U9	0521629519	638999829	The Austro-Prussian War: Austria's War with Prussia and Italy in 1866	Books	5	43	43	N	Y	An Interesting Revisionist Account	The Austro-Prussian War, by history professor Dr. Geoffrey Wawro, is a well-written and interesting revisionist account of that oft-neglected conflict in 1866.  Dr. Wawro has assembled an impressive amount of existing and new source material that sheds an entirely new light on the brief war of 1866 that brought Prussia to the brink of German unification and presaged a new era of professionalization in war.  Wawro's account is particularly strong in its use of Austrian and Italian sources; the Italian role in the war is usually reduced to a few paragraphs but in these pages it is covered in great detail.  However, readers should be aware that Dr. Wawro's account is revisionist in intent and tone, which the author does not always make clear.  Dr. Wawro's central hypothesis is that both Austria and Prussia were fairly evenly matched opponents but that, \\"Austria did lose in 1866 for many reasons, but chiefly because...Ludwig Benedek, Austria's supreme commander on the Prussian front, revealed himself to be a supremely incompetent general.\\"  While the author also cites the technical superiority of the Prussian needle gun and the poor combat performance of many ethnic minority units in the Austrian army, the main cause the author ascribes for Austrian defeat is the poor generalship of Benedek.  The \\"inferior generalship\\" hypothesis is a difficult one to prove, particularly given notable lapses in Prussian generalship, but by and large the author succeeds.  Overall, the Austro-Prussian War belongs on any bookshelf of anyone seriously interested in the evolution of 19th Century warfare.<br /> The Austro-Prussian War consists of 11 chapters, beginning with strategy and tactics in 1866 and origins of the war.  Two more chapters cover opposing war plans and Italian involvement in the conflict.  The fifth chapter covers the Battle of Custoza and the rout of the Italian Mincio Army.  The next three chapters cover the covering force battles that preceded the decisive battle of K&ouml;niggr&auml;tz, and then the next two chapters cover the battle itself.  A final chapter covers the aftermath of the battle, which does an excellent job discussing the results and implications of the war.  The author has included many sketch maps in the book, which while useful, are rather crude and incomplete.  None of the maps have scales or depict railroad lines, or even depict tactical movements.  I found it necessary to consult another source on the war that had better maps, to follow the author's narrative.  There are also a number of photographs, mostly of Austrian generals (note, other than one photo of Moltke, there are no photos or illustrations from the Prussian side).  The author includes excellent footnotes and a detailed bibliography, but no appendices.  An appendix listing rival orders of battle and casualties in the war would have been useful.<br /> For military professionals, the author's discussion of the development of Austrian \\"fire tactics\\" and the needle gun will be an interesting evolutionary study.  While the author notes that not all Prussian commanders subscribed to these tactics, the superiority of the tactics in themselves are not so clear because the author tends to ascribe too much importance to the needle gun.  The author ignores the importance of combined arms tactics in favor of over-emphasis of one weapon system.  While the needle gun was revolutionary as the first mass-produced breech-loading rifle and conferred firepower advantages to the Prussian infantry, the rest of the Prussian combined arms team was pretty weak.  Prussian artillery was obsolescent, Prussian cavalry was timid and poorly trained and the vital support services were not up to supplying a fast-moving campaign.  On the Austrian side, the retention of column assaults bordered on reactionary but such tactics did not become truly obsolete until the introduction of the machinegun.  Austrian artillery and cavalry was superior, but these arms were improperly used.  Two interesting areas of modern military technology that the author fails to address in detail are the use of telegraph and railroads.  While the author does mention that the Austrians foolishly shunned the use of telegraphs, they do not seemed to have suffered badly for it, but the Prussians who did use telegraphs were often out of communications and suffered badly from lack of adequate command and control.  The military use of the railroad is hardy mentioned, and one wonders why Benedek - who enjoyed an excellent rail net in Bohemia and Moravia - was constantly marching his troops to and fro instead of using rail lines to transfer troops rapidly.<br /> The author's conclusions about the implications of the war are also striking, \\"the complete triumph of Prussian grand strategy in 1866 served to tighten the political connection between the Prusso-German state and army.  After 1866, the example of K&ouml;niggr&auml;tz suggested that Prussia-Germany could extend its influence and make vast annexations against any rival if only it struck fast and hard enough.  This thinking, which originated with Clausewitz and Moltke, would be the basis of Prusso-German military strategy in 1870, 1914 and 1939.\\"  The author notes that other armies attempted to copy the Prussian military professional standards after K&ouml;niggr&auml;tz, but none fully succeeded.  Indeed, the Austrians failed to learn much from their defeat and in fact their military capabilities declined.  However, one interesting question that the author does not ask is that given the demonstrated military incompetence of the Austrian and Italian armies in 1866, why did Prussia choose to later ally itself with such second-rate powers?  In choice of weapons and tactics the Germans clearly excelled, but in choice of allies they were clearly inferior.nteresting areas of modern military technology that the author fails to address in detail are the use of telegraph and railroads.  While the author does mention that the Austrians foolishly shunned the use of telegraphs, they do not seemed to have suffered badly for it, but the Prussians who did use telegraphs were often out of communications and suffered badly from lack of adequate command and control.  The military use of the railroad is hardy mentioned, and one wonders why Benedek - who enjoyed an excellent rail net in Bohemia and Moravia - was constantly marching his troops to and fro instead of using rail lines to transfer troops rapidly.    <br /> The author's conclusions about the implications of the war are also striking, \\"the complete triumph of Prussian grand strategy in 1866 served to tighten the political connection between the Prusso-German state and army.  After 1866, the example of Königgrätz suggested that Prussia-Germany could extend its influence and make vast annexations against any rival if only it struck fast and hard enough.  This thinking, which originated with Clausewitz and Moltke, would be the basis of Prusso-German military strategy in 1870, 1914 and 1939.\\"  The author notes that other armies attempted to copy the Prussian military professional standards after Königgrätz, but none fully succeeded.  Indeed, the Austrians failed to learn much from their defeat and in fact their military capabilities declined.  However, one interesting question that the author does not ask is that given the demonstrated military incompetence of the Austrian and Italian armies in 1866, why did Prussia choose to later ally itself with such second-rate powers?  In choice of weapons and tactics the Germans clearly excelled, but in choice of allies they were clearly inferior.	2002-07-05
1486665:US	52533596	R2SLLX7L8MRY2	1841763713	458058481	The Iran–Iraq War 1980–1988 (Essential Histories)	Books	3	89	96	N	N	Pro-Iraqi Bias	One of the most difficult subjects for any historian to deal with - and one that many suggest should not even be undertaken - is recent history.  Writing about recent history has far more risk of bias and lacks the documentary evidence that that the fullness of time tends to bring forth.  In the Iran-Iraq War 1980-1988, Mideast scholar Dr. Efraim Karsh attempts to summarize the main points of this brutal, but ultimately indecisive, contest of nations.  The result of Dr. Karsh's study is interesting, but may well disappoint many readers.  First, the military details and analysis are rather sparse, which is not unexpected given the closed nature of both Iraqi and Iranian sources.  Second, Dr. Karsh clearly has a pro-Iraqi bias that tends to skew his analysis of political motives and intentions.  Overall, this volume succeeds in delivering a useful summary of the Iran-Iraq War, but readers will probably not be as satisfied as they would reading an Osprey Essential History on the First or Second World Wars.<br /> The Iran-Iraq War begins with an introduction, a chronology, a short background to the war, and a brief synopsis of the warring sides.  The actual military campaigns are covered in two chapters totaling 40 pages.  The author then uses several short chapters to cover selected topics: Iran's use of boy soldiers, the Iraqi and Iranian national war efforts, the campaign against the Kurds and how the war ended.  The author's conclusion is entitled, \\"a costly exercise in futility,\\" which tends to sum up his opinion of the war.  There are a total of 9 maps (the Mideast in 1980, the Iraqi invasion of Iran in 1980, Iran's recapture of Khuzestan, the deployment of the Iraqi corps in 1982, Iran's Dawn Offensives, Iran's capture of Fao, the tanker war, Operation Karbala 5, and Iraq's final offensives in 1988).  Unlike most Osprey titles, these maps are not very useful since they don't convey very much information.  Nor are the photographs very exceptional; few are actually related to the fighting and most depict only rather bland images.  Finally, the bibliography does not list any primary sources or even Iraqi or Iranian periodicals (presumably the author is conversant in regional languages) and lists rather standard secondary sources like Anthony Cordesman.  While Cordesman is a good source on this subject, it is not clear that the author did much original research.  Considering that there are officer &eacute;migr&eacute;s (such as at least one Iraqi corps commander) from both nations now in the west, the author might have included some interviews with these individuals.<br /> While the author covers all the major battles of the war, the coverage appears little deeper than what one could glean from contemporary newspaper accounts.  Not one military unit on either side is even mentioned by name, nor are any military leaders other than Iraqi general Rashid mentioned.  This account is of a war of faceless, nameless ciphers.  Given that some information is available in the west on some of the early armor battles and on the Republican Guard, the author seems to have done little to enrich the military side of this account.  The brief section on opposing armies really only addresses the relative forces in quantitative terms, without even touching doctrine or tactics.  The Iranian army, having been trained by the US, was far more dependent on air support and artillery than the tank-heavy Soviet-trained Iraqi army.<br /> The author's pro-Iraqi bias is hard to swallow.  In Dr. Karsh's view, Saddam Hussein had little choice but to invade Iran in 1980 since the Revolutionary regime was a threat to his own political survival.  Furthermore, the author views Hussein's main mistake as opting for overly-limited objectives, instead of really crippling Iran's military power by going for a full-scale invasion.  While the author concedes that Hussein does perpetuate a personality cult and did kill thousands of Kurdish civilians with poison gas, the Iraqi leader is consistently presented as an essentially normal leader.  In the conclusion, the author again paints Iraq as being \\"forced to\\" invade Kuwait in 1990.  Wait a minute! No choice but to invade?  Saddam Hussein presented as a normal leader?  How about the far more realistic assessment that Saddam Hussein was (is) a criminal dictator who seized the opportunity to seize some oil-rich areas in Iran when the Iranian Revolutionary had disrupted Iran's military defenses.  The Shatt-al-Arab waterway dispute that the author mentions was only the Iraqi cassus belli, but he fails to mention that the Iraqi drives toward Ahvaz and Abadan were designed to grab major oil producing areas, not just remove threats to Iraqi transshipment routes.  Had the Iraqi aggression succeeded, Saddam Hussein would have increased his control over the Mideast oil supply by grabbing important Iranian oil fields.  He tried the same thing in 1990 in Kuwait.  Saddam Hussein's motives and intentions are clear: use force to grab oil resources from weakly defended areas.  Readers should also note the omission of certain Iraqi provocative acts, in particular the 1987 \\"accidental\\" missile attack on the USS Stark (but the author does mention the mining of the USS Samuel B. Roberts by the Iranians).  If this account is to be believed, Iraq \\"saved\\" the other Gulf States from Iranian aggression and had been forced into a difficult position from which military force was the only answer.  This type of bias, combined with inadequate coverage of the military aspects of the war, reduces the Iran-Iraq War 1980-1988 to the second tier of secondary sources.der is consistently presented as an essentially normal leader.  In the conclusion, the author again paints Iraq as being \\"forced to\\" invade Kuwait in 1990.  Wait a minute! No choice but to invade?  Saddam Hussein presented as a normal leader?  How about the far more realistic assessment that Saddam Hussein was (is) a criminal dictator who seized the opportunity to seize some oil-rich areas in Iran when the Iranian Revolutionary had disrupted Iran's military defenses.  The Shatt-al-Arab waterway dispute that the author mentions was only the Iraqi cassus belli, but he fails to mention that the Iraqi drives toward Ahvaz and Abadan were designed to grab major oil producing areas, not just remove threats to Iraqi transshipment routes.  Had the Iraqi aggression succeeded, Saddam Hussein would have increased his control over the Mideast oil supply by grabbing important Iranian oil fields.  He tried the same thing in 1990 in Kuwait.  Saddam Hussein's motives and intentions are clear: use force to grab oil resources from weakly defended areas.  Readers should also note the omission of certain Iraqi provocative acts, in particular the 1987 \\"accidental\\" missile attack on the USS Stark (but the author does mention the mining of the USS Samuel B. Roberts by the Iranians).  If this account is to be believed, Iraq \\"saved\\" the other Gulf States from Iranian aggression and had been forced into a difficult position from which military force was the only answer.  This type of bias, combined with inadequate coverage of the military aspects of the war, reduces the Iran-Iraq War 1980-1988 to the second tier of secondary sources.	2002-07-05
1502673:US	52533596	R2I3BYYLJ8CW64	1841761982	570830420	World War I Trench Warfare (2): 1916–18 (Elite) (Pt.2)	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Good, but Anglo-centric	Dr. Stephen Bull, curator of Military History and Archaeology at the Museum of Lancashire, picks up in this volume where he left off in his first Osprey volume on trench warfare.  In this volume, Dr. Bull covers the evolution of trench warfare in 1916-1918.  While far from comprehensive, this volume is interesting and does cover the most important aspects of the subject.  However, readers should be aware of the not-too-subtle Anglo-centric bias of the author, particularly since like the first volume, the entire focus is on the Western Front.  Trench warfare on the Russian, Italian and Turkish fronts is ignored in this volume, and even the French do not receive their fare share of coverage.  I find it odd that the tiny Portuguese expeditionary force receives more attention than any Commonwealth army in this volume, including the Canadians and ANZACs.  Indeed, both books in these series really only concern themselves with British and German trench warfare on the Western Front.  Nevertheless, given the size constraints, these two volumes represent a good summary of Western Front trench warfare in the First World War.<br /> The volume consists of short sections on the development of \\"Big Push\\" tactics; introduction of helmets and body armor; raids; sniping'; new defensive tactics; light machine guns; new offensive tactics (German and British only).  The excellent cover plates include British raiders; German assault troops 1917; a Portuguese trench mortar team 1917; British & Australian specialist troops; German equipment; French specialist troops; American infantry 1918; German assault troops 1918; American trench fighters 1918; and a British platoon attack 1918.<br /> Overall, the author does a good job covering the highlights of evolving trench warfare doctrine in 1916-1918 and hammers home the thesis that tactics and doctrine were in a period of trial and error in this period.  However, while the author successfully identifies the recognition by both sides that a solution to trench warfare deadlock had to be found, he fails to adequately define their solutions.  While the author discusses the German storm trooper units and mentions Colonel Bruchmuller's new artillery tactics, he fails to note the lessons learned in 1917 at Riga and Caporetto.  Nor does the author really describe infiltration tactics or the fact that the attacks in the 1918 Kaiserschlacht were a mix of infiltration and standard infantry tactics.  As for the British, the author does a much better job (obviously since this is where most of his information concerns) discussing the evolution of new tactics, including tanks and specialist troops.  However, deficiencies in British defensive tactics that contributed to the 1918 defeats are not mentioned.  Nor are Canadian troops mentioned in this volume, despite the impressive capture of heavily defended Vimy Ridge in April 1917. Although French troops and weapons appear in various illustrations in the volume, they are barely mentioned in the text and there is no mention of the 1917 Nivelle Offensive.  Furthermore, the author's failure to mention the development of \\"methodical battle\\" tactics by both the French and the Australian general Monash is a major omission.  Yet despite the over-focus on the British trench experience, these volumes are still a good summary of the subject, as long as readers do not forget that there were other armies that were fighting and dying in the trenches in 1914-1918.olution to trench warfare deadlock had to be found, he fails to adequately define their solutions.  While the author discusses the German storm trooper units and mentions Colonel Bruchmuller's new artillery tactics, he fails to note the lessons learned in 1917 at Riga and Caporetto.  Nor does the author really describe infiltration tactics or the fact that the attacks in the 1918 Kaiserschlacht were a mix of infiltration and standard infantry tactics.  As for the British, the author does a much better job (obviously since this is where most of his information concerns) discussing the evolution of new tactics, including tanks and specialist troops.  However, deficiencies in British defensive tactics that contributed to the 1918 defeats are not mentioned.  Nor are Canadian troops mentioned in this volume, despite the impressive capture of heavily defended Vimy Ridge in April 1917. Although French troops and weapons appear in various illustrations in the volume, they are barely mentioned in the text and there is no mention of the 1917 Nivelle Offensive.  Furthermore, the author's failure to mention the development of \\"methodical battle\\" tactics by both the French and the Australian general Monash is a major omission.   Yet despite the over-focus on the British trench experience, these volumes are still a good summary of the subject, as long as readers do not forget that there were other armies that were fighting and dying in the trenches in 1914-1918.	2002-06-21
1505985:US	52533596	RCOOA32BRAXS6	9999804829	943258120	Passage Through Armageddon	Books	4	6	6	N	N	How to Destroy an Empire	Passage Through Armageddon offers a superb overview of the decline of Tsarist Russia and the early stages of the Bolshevik Revolution.  The author, a professor at Northern Illinois University, is an acknowledged expert on this period of Russian history and he uses his mastery of the subject to paint this period in riveting detail.  Passage Through Armageddon is well written and thoroughly researched but given the plethora of obscure Russian characters, it is not for the faint of heart or general reader.  Readers should also note that this author tone differs from other accounts in its unflattering portrayals of the Tsar and his enemies.  Overall, this book substantially enhances our knowledge of Russia's path through war and revolution in 1914-1918.<br /> Passage Through Armageddon consists of 18 chapters divided into five parts; each part covers one year.  An extensive section of footnotes and bibliography demonstrate that the author has delved deeply into Russian archival sources.  There are only five maps: the 1914 East Prussian Campaign, the 1914 Galician Campaign, the 1915 Polish front, the 1916 Brusilov Offensive and Petrograd.  Unfortunately, these maps are not very informative since they only display terrain and front-line traces, not strategic movements or battles.  A section of 32 interesting photos complement the text.<br /> About two-thirds of the book deals with Russia's entry into the First Word War and the role of Tsar Nicholas II in leading his country to disaster.  Readers familiar with Nicholas II from Robert K. Massie's 1967 Nicholas and Alexandra will find a totally different portrayal of the Romanov couple in these pages.  In Massie's sympathetic account, Nicholas was portrayed as a doting father and husband who, unfortunately, was unlucky as CEO of the Russian Empire.  Lincoln wastes no ink on the tsar's family life but instead methodically lays out in detail the gross incompetence and arrogance of the last tsar.  In particular, Nicholas had an uncanny ability to put incompetent men like Sukhomlinov, Ianushkevich, Bezobrazov and Sturmer in key positions where they could do the most harm.  Good, honest men were discarded since they tended to voice unpleasant truths about Russia's real conditions - the tsar preferred \\"yes\\" men.  Aleksandra's relationship with Rasputin - a \\"bogus holy man\\" in Lincoln's words - was critical since she coerced Nicholas into hiring and firing ministers and generals based upon the recommendations of that illiterate con man.  At STAVKA headquarters, Nicholas assumed the title of supreme commander but shunned real leadership responsibilities, preferring to spend his days leisurely reading silly books or playing cards while his troops were losing battle after battle.  Furthermore, Nicholas' selection of incompetent civil administrators led to a major urban food shortage amidst bumper wheat crops in rural areas.  Any remaining sympathy for Nicholas is demolished by Lincoln's telling passage concerning the tsar's reaction to reports of unrest caused by hunger in the capital in 1917.  After a loyal minister warned that, \\"the final hour is beginning to strike,\\" and that the tsar must act, Nicholas replied that, \\"I can't waste time on this.  I already know everything that I need to know.\\"  By the time that Nicholas abdicates in March 1917, the reader will be cheering.<br /> Lincoln's account of Russia in the First World War is interesting and detailed.  In particular, he notes that \\"the fall's [1914] schizophrenic mixture of victories and defeats\\" was odd, since Russia inflicted defeats on the Austrians and Turks, but was smashed by the Germans.  The Russian army which started the war short of artillery and ammunition, was further handicapped by the foolish decision to reinforce the elderly border fortifications with large quantities of these materials - and then to abandon these forts with hardly a fight.  Russia certainly suffered its share of defeats in the war, particularly Tannenberg, Gorlice-Tarnow and the Great Retreat across Poland; by the end of 1915 Russia appeared to be on the verge of defeat. Yet Lincoln demonstrates that Russia's defeat was not inevitable. Despite the tsar's moronic behavior, some good men did emerge.  Men like Alekseev, Brusilov and Polivanov rebuilt the Russian armies with help from the Allies.  In 1916, a revitalized Russian army under Brusilov launched the most successful Russian offensive of the war and almost took Austria out of the war, but for the inability of Nicholas to exploit success.<br /> The last third of the book covers the revolutionary period after the fall of the tsar and the major characters are Kerenski, Kornilov, Trotsky and Lenin.  Kerenski, the charismatic leader of the Provisional Government was a talker, not a doer and he mistakenly thought that the main threat to his regime came from the right, not the left.  Kornilov, the military hero who sought only to restore order in the army, fell victim to a bizarre plot and was arrested by a suspicious Kerenski; however the \\"success\\" against an imagined right-wing army plot only made it easier for Lenin's Bolsheviks to overthrow the regime which now lacked an effective army.  The Bolshevik Coup of November 1917 is presented as a comic-opera affair, with little fighting but much confusion.  Instead of the heroic Lenin addressing grateful crowds, we see a furtive Lenin sneaking around Petrograd wearing a wig to avoid arrest but who is then barred entry into Bolshevik headquarters because he is not recognized.  Trotsky is acknowledged as the ramrod of the Revolution itself, but as a naïve revolutionary who failed to impress the Germans at the Brest-Litovsk peace negotiations.  Indeed, Trotsky's \\"no peace, no war\\" formula prompted further German aggression and forced the Bolsheviks to sue for a humiliating armistice.  The book ends with Russia's exit from the First World War and the beginning of the Civil War, a subject which the author covers in his next book, Red Victory.berg, Gorlice-Tarnow and the Great Retreat across Poland; by the end of 1915 Russia appeared to be on the verge of defeat. Yet Lincoln demonstrates that Russia's defeat was not inevitable. Despite the tsar's moronic behavior, some good men did emerge.  Men like Alekseev, Brusilov and Polivanov rebuilt the Russian armies with help from the Allies.  In 1916, a revitalized Russian army under Brusilov launched the most successful Russian offensive of the war and almost took Austria out of the war, but for the inability of Nicholas to exploit success.  <br /> The last third of the book covers the revolutionary period after the fall of the tsar and the major characters are Kerenski, Kornilov, Trotsky and Lenin.  Kerenski, the charismatic leader of the Provisional Government was a talker, not a doer and he mistakenly thought that the main threat to his regime came from the right, not the left.  Kornilov, the military hero who sought only to restore order in the army, fell victim to a bizarre plot and was arrested by a suspicious Kerenski; however the \\"success\\" against an imagined right-wing army plot only made it easier for Lenin's Bolsheviks to overthrow the regime which now lacked an effective army.  The Bolshevik Coup of November 1917 is presented as a comic-opera affair, with little fighting but much confusion.  Instead of the heroic Lenin addressing grateful crowds, we see a furtive Lenin sneaking around Petrograd wearing a wig to avoid arrest but who is then barred entry into Bolshevik headquarters because he is not recognized.  Trotsky is acknowledged as the ramrod of the Revolution itself, but as a naïve revolutionary who failed to impress the Germans at the Brest-Litovsk peace negotiations.  Indeed, Trotsky's \\"no peace, no war\\" formula prompted further German aggression and forced the Bolsheviks to sue for a humiliating armistice.  The book ends with Russia's exit from the First World War and the beginning of the Civil War, a subject which the author covers in his next book, Red Victory.	2002-06-18
1524858:US	52533596	R1Y0C4E69TJ4E	0743223853	450843795	Yanks: The Epic Story of the American Army in World War I	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Interesting but Superficial Account of AEF	Yanks is an interesting, well-written account of the American Expeditionary Force (AEF) in France during the First World War.  Eisenhower, a retired brigadier general and son of the president, provides a broad-brush summary of American participation in the war that will certainly satisfy the general reader.  However, given the number of other books on this same subject, Yanks offers nothing of unique value.  The author adds nothing to his \\"epic story\\" that distinguishes it from other books on this subject.  The narrative is far too generalized for readers with greater background in the First World War, and omits too much to classify as a comprehensive history of even its own subject, the AEF.<br /> Yanks consists of three major sections that cover the creation of the AEF, the AEF's initial battles in France and the AEF's independent operations.  The narrative itself consists of 23 short chapters, which are well supported by 16 maps.  A brief appendix on US mobilization, notes and bibliography conclude the volume.  The author has invested considerable research in this work and there are no significant historical errors.  Much of the author's focus is on General Pershing, commander of the AEF, and in fact this book might have been called, \\"General Pershings' War.\\"  Most of the narrative focuses on high-level leaders and operations, although the author takes the time to point out the contributions of fighting men like Alvin C. York and Sam Woodfill.  Eisenhower's descriptions of the St Mihiel and Meuse-Argonne operations are succinct but accurate.<br /> The biggest problem with Yanks - and one that greatly reduces its value - is that it really only covers the American divisions that fought directly under General Pershing's command. While the author acknowledges that ten US divisions fought under Allied control, he says virtually nothing about their contributions.  The list of omitted units in this account of the AEF is incredible.  The US 2nd Corps (27th and 30th Divisions), which spent the entire war under British command in Flanders and the Somme while suffering 16,000 combat casualties, is only briefly mentioned in one sentence.  The American 37th and 91st Divisions, which fought with the Franco-Belgian army, are also barely mentioned.  The capture of Blanc Mont by the US 2nd and 36th Divisions while assigned to the French 4th Army (and suffered 7,800 casualties) is only mentioned in a terse footnote. Furthermore, the author tends to over-focus on regular units like the 1st Infantry Division and fails to mention some National Guard units that participated in the final Meuse-Argonne offensive; the 29th Division is never mentioned once in these even though it was in the battle. Nor is US participation in other theaters mentioned; the operations of the 332nd Infantry Regiment in Italy in July-November 1918 and the 339th Infantry Regiment in Russia in September 1918 are never mentioned.  Furthermore, the author omits virtually all mention of the contributions of supporting arms, such as artillery, engineers, signal, chemical and aviation.  Based on this account, the reader would not be aware that there were 42 American artillery brigades in France by the end of the war.  While the author includes photos of American aces Eddie Rickenbacker and Frank Luke, neither their accomplishments nor units are mentioned in the narrative.  Indeed, brief mention of Patton and Billy Mitchell suffices for the author's coverage of the tank and air corps in the AEF.  Due to these numerous omissions, Yanks only scratches the surface in its coverage of the AEF.<br /> Another big problem with Yanks is that the author never spends much effort detailing important aspects of the US war effort that directly affected the build-up of the AEF.  For example, the issue of armaments production is glossed over but the US failure to produce any significant quantities of artillery, tanks or aircraft was a major impediment.  While the author notes Pershing's disdainthat the British used only 9 weeks for basic training for their own troops, he fails to detail US training methods or explain how many virtually untrained troops were committed to battle in the Meuse-Argonne.  A book like this desperately needs appendices covering order of battle, dates units arrived in France, a more detailed break-down of casualties, etc.  Unfortunately, Yanks is about 50% shorter than it needs to be and the author should have made a greater effort to cover more than just the highlights of the AEF.<br /> Finally, Yanks is rather weak on analysis.  Major questions, like how great was the role of the AEF in the final victory, are barely addressed.  The author might have mentioned that US troops held 83 miles of the Western Front at the armistice - less than the French but more than the Commonwealth armies.  The author should also have mentioned that the ten US divisions that served under Allied command were spearheading the final Allied offensives in Champagne and Flanders.  Europeans who want to minimize the AEF's role by suggesting that the St Mihiel and Meuse-Argonne operations were sideshows should not be allowed to ignore all these other operations that Eisenhower allows to slip through the cracks of his broad-brush.  The author tends to make some odd generalized linkages between the First and Second World War, particularly when he suggests that if the Allies had listened to Pershing and refused an armistice in November 1918 that the Second World War might have been avoided.  This is patently absurd.  If Pershing had gotten his way, the war would have extended well into 1919 with an invasion of Germany, with the result still an Allied victory.  It is hard to see how more casualties with the same result could have prevented the rise of the Nazis in a defeated Germany.  Finally, the whole issue of independent American formations versus coalition operations is never really addressed, but is still relevant today.isdain that the British used only 9 weeks for basic training for their own troops, he fails to detail US training methods or explain how many virtually untrained troops were committed to battle in the Meuse-Argonne.  A book like this desperately needs appendices covering order of battle, dates units arrived in France, a more detailed break-down of casualties, etc.  Unfortunately, Yanks is about 50% shorter than it needs to be and the author should have made a greater effort to cover more than just the highlights of the AEF.  <br /> Finally, Yanks is rather weak on analysis.  Major questions, like how great was the role of the AEF in the final victory, are barely addressed.  The author might have mentioned that US troops held 83 miles of the Western Front at the armistice - less than the French but more than the Commonwealth armies.  The author should also have mentioned that the ten US divisions that served under Allied command were spearheading the final Allied offensives in Champagne and Flanders.  Europeans who want to minimize the AEF's role by suggesting that the St Mihiel and Meuse-Argonne operations were sideshows should not be allowed to ignore all these other operations that Eisenhower allows to slip through the cracks of his broad-brush.  The author tends to make some odd generalized linkages between the First and Second World War, particularly when he suggests that if the Allies had listened to Pershing and refused an armistice in November 1918 that the Second World War might have been avoided.  This is patently absurd.  If Pershing had gotten his way, the war would have extended well into 1919 with an invasion of Germany, with the result still an Allied victory.  It is hard to see how more casualties with the same result could have prevented the rise of the Nazis in a defeated Germany.  Finally, the whole issue of independent American formations versus coalition operations is never really addressed, but is still relevant today.	2002-05-31
1529737:US	52533596	R19MBQSPI1L2PP	0850528151	991518765	Nijmegen: U. S. 82nd Airborne And Guards Armoured Division (Battleground Europe)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	This Is the Way to Do Military History	Tim Saunders has written another excellent Battleground Europe series title, this time on the role of the American 82nd Airborne Division and the British Guards Armored Division in the struggle for the bridges around Nijmegen in September 1944.  Even readers who have read other books on the infamous Operation Market-Garden should pay attention to Saunder's book, since there is a wealth of information that rarely if ever appears in other sources.  Normally, the fight of the British 1st Airborne Division at Arnhem gets most of the coverage in accounts of Market-Garden, with very little space reserved for the fighting at Nijmegen.  Interestingly, it was German veterans after the war who noted that it was the fighting at Nijmegen that decided the battle, and the fate of the British 1st Airborne.  Saunder's book, which forms a part of the Battleground Europe series covering all phases of Market-Garden, goes a long way toward redressing the lack of coverage of this critical battle.<br /> Nijmegen consists of ten chapters, beginning with a short 17-page section on the strategic background of the Market-Garden plan.  The remaining nine chapters cover each of the sub-actions that formed the Nijmegen fighting: the capture of the Grave bridge; the Maas-Waal canal bridges; the Molenhoek; the Groesbeek Heights; Bergen Dal, Beek and Devil's Hill; Nijmegen and the Waal bridges; capture of the Waal bridges; Lent and north of the Waal; and Oousterhout.  There are also three appendices covering orders of battle, cemeteries and comparative rank structure.  While an index is provided, there is unfortunately no bibliography.  Most of the photographs in the volume while excellent will be familiar to readers of Robert Kershaw's It Never Snows in September, and Saunders has also culled that source for much of his information on the Germans around Nijmegen.<br /> The actual coverage of each of the sub-action is simply superb.  In the case of the seizure of the Grave Bridge by the 2/504th PIR for example, the author provides an annotated 1:50,000 scale map of the objective, 1944-vintage aerial photographs of the objective, eyewitness accounts of the action, photographs of key terrain around the objective and the aftermath of the action.  Most of the other actions are equally supported by aerial photographs, excellent maps depicting tactical movements and dispositions, and photographs of key terrain features.  Many of the smaller actions in this area, such as the fighting around Groesbeek Heights, are virtually ignored in other accounts.  The incredible assault crossing of the Waal River by the 3/504th PIR is covered in great detail and the comments of the SS commander opposing it are telling: \\"crossing one of Europe's widest and fast flowing rivers in daylight was inconceivable and dismissed as suicidal.\\"  Consequently, the Germans were caught by surprise when the Americans actually did it.<br /> The author also manages to dig up new details about the fighting around Nijmegen that do not appear at all in other accounts.  Due to the failure of British tactical communications at Arnhem, most people tend to believe that all Allied airborne units suffered from poor communications during Market-Garden.  Not so.  As Saunders convincingly details, the American 82nd Airborne Division's radios worked fine and the excellent division radio net allowed Brigadier General Gavin to shift his small forces around to fight off repeated German counterattacks.  Furthermore, the 82nd Airborne exploited the still-functional Dutch telephone network and used it for communications, unlike the British.  One episode that is rarely mentioned concerns the air-landing of Lieutenant General Browning's Corps headquarters near Groesbeek on 17 September 1944.  Apparently, Browning wanted to be one of the first British soldiers to cross the German border and he and some of his staff members apparently made a brief sortie into the neighboring Reichswald to claim this honor. British records appear to corroborate this tale.  If true, the schoolboy behavior of \\"Boy\\" Browning will surely further diminish that general's already poor reputation.<br /> Saunders also addresses two controversial aspects of the Nijmegen fighting.  Why did the 82nd Airborne not make a major effort toward the poorly guarded Nijmegen Bridge right after the airdrop?  Only two companies were dispatched toward the bridge late in the day and they were stopped by hastily deployed SS reinforcements.  Saunder's assessment is that while Gavin's overall generalship was excellent, that he erred on the side of force protection over mission accomplishment.  Gavin wanted to secure his vulnerable flanks before pushing into the city and did not expect significant German defenses.  This was a mistake, but an understandable one.  Consequently, the 82nd Airborne did not secure the Nijmegen Bridge until D+3, which doomed the British effort at Arnhem.  Commanders should keep Gavin's dilemma in mind when evaluating force protection versus mission accomplishment.  The other controversy concerns the British failure to exploit the American seizure of the Nijmegen Bridges on 20 September; the Americans on the spot criticized the British armor units for failing to push on the 10 miles to Arnhem.  Saunders effectively demonstrates that a successful push to Arnhem on the night of 20 September was unlikely for a number of sound military reasons, and probably would have yielded a column of burning Sherman hulks along the road to Arnhem.  Nevertheless, the issue of exploiting fleeting opportunities - particularly ones that could decide battles - is a vexing one.  To his credit, Saunders examines these controversial issues objectively.  Nijmegen also has interesting points to make about the role of luck in combat, particularly concerning the German failure to destroy any of the primary bridges in the area.ecords appear to corroborate this tale.  If true, the schoolboy behavior of \\"Boy\\" Browning will surely further diminish that general's already poor reputation.  <br /> Saunders also addresses two controversial aspects of the Nijmegen fighting.  Why did the 82nd Airborne not make a major effort toward the poorly guarded Nijmegen Bridge right after the airdrop?  Only two companies were dispatched toward the bridge late in the day and they were stopped by hastily deployed SS reinforcements.  Saunder's assessment is that while Gavin's overall generalship was excellent, that he erred on the side of force protection over mission accomplishment.  Gavin wanted to secure his vulnerable flanks before pushing into the city and did not expect significant German defenses.  This was a mistake, but an understandable one.  Consequently, the 82nd Airborne did not secure the Nijmegen Bridge until D+3, which doomed the British effort at Arnhem.  Commanders should keep Gavin's dilemma in mind when evaluating force protection versus mission accomplishment.  The other controversy concerns the British failure to exploit the American seizure of the Nijmegen Bridges on 20 September; the Americans on the spot criticized the British armor units for failing to push on the 10 miles to Arnhem.  Saunders effectively demonstrates that a successful push to Arnhem on the night of 20 September was unlikely for a number of sound military reasons, and probably would have yielded a column of burning Sherman hulks along the road to Arnhem.  Nevertheless, the issue of exploiting fleeting opportunities - particularly ones that could decide battles - is a vexing one.  To his credit, Saunders examines these controversial issues objectively.  Nijmegen also has interesting points to make about the role of luck in combat, particularly concerning the German failure to destroy any of the primary bridges in the area.	2002-05-27
1538810:US	52533596	R1NSIOUSC6947P	0465057918	276025833	The Tsar's Last Armada	Books	3	16	18	N	Y	Mad Dog Rozhestvensky	The Tsar's Last Armada is an interesting Russian-oriented account of the fateful voyage of the Russian Baltic Fleet to the Pacific Ocean in 1904-1905, where it was destroyed at the Battle of Tsushima.  Not many books are written about the Russo-Japanese War and this well written book is a welcome addition to the small circle on English language books on that subject.  The author, currently a Russian native now turned US professor at Mount Holyoke College, has expertly mined Russian archives and diaries for a treasure trove on information about the epic voyage.  The narrative of the voyage itself revolves more around personalities, rather than military or technical details.  Overall, The Tsar's Last Armada is an excellent book on the subject, but other books should be consulted to provide the Japanese perspective.<br /> The Tsar's Last Armada consists of three main sections: covering predeployment activities, the voyage of the fleet to Asian waters and the final Battle of Tsushima.  There are two significant structural weaknesses in the book: use of maps and dates.  Only four large scale, poor quality maps are provided to show the route of the fleet and there are no maps to depict the tactical dispositions or movements in the Battle of Tsushima.  Furthermore, the author's use of old-style Russian dates is confusing and readers must remember to add 13 days to any date given.  Although the author has added a section on photographs, only a few are relevant to the cast of characters or the Russian Fleet and the reader might wonder why he bothered.  Nevertheless, these technical glitches are annoying but only detract slightly from an otherwise well written book.<br /> The main focus in Pleshakov's account is the commander of the Russian 2nd Pacific Squadron (the first squadron was destroyed at Port Arthur), Vice-Admiral Rozhestvensky.  At times, the reader will sympathize with the admiral who was assigned this near-impossible task, to take a fleet of warships 16,000 miles around the world to fight a strong enemy fleet.  Rozhestvensky was a strict disciplinarian and he tried to mold a motley collection of warships into a fighting force, without much help from his subordinates or the Russian Naval Ministry.  On the other hand, at other times Rozhestvensky appears to have been a completely paranoid fool, particularly in the Dogger Bank incident where he ordered his warships to open fire on what he thought were Japanese torpedo boats; instead, he sank a British fishing trawler and caused a major international incident with England.  Later, Rozhestvensky's orders resulted in the breaking of the Europe-Africa underwater cable at Tangiers and he almost provoked a military confrontation with Portugal.  His sailors also rioted in Crete and caused trouble everywhere they landed.  In probably never occurred to the Russians to bring a few diplomats along on the mission, in order to arrange better cooperation.  Rozhestvensky's decisions at Tsushima - ordering first column, then line, then back to column - only served to disorganize his fleet and make it easy for the Japanese to slaughter.  Perhaps the best that one can say about Rozhestvensky is that he was Russia's best admiral in 1905, but that was not good enough.<br /> Military readers may be disappointed by the fairly short shrift given to technical details in this account, which focuses more on people than ships.  The fact that the voyage was delayed until the four Borodino class battleships could be completed and that they sailed without \\"shakedown\\" cruises, should have been mentioned to help explain the untried nature of the four best Russian warships.  Nor are logistic issues addressed in any real detail, although it would have been interesting to read how the Russian Naval Ministry planned and paid for coaling operations; nothing like this had ever been tried before.  The Battle of Tsushima itself is covered in less than 50 pages and total casualties for each side are not mentioned.  On the other hand, readers will learn more about the Russian sub-commanders, Nebogatov and  Enkvist, than standard accounts offer.  In particular, Nebogatov's surrender of several elderly Russian battleships without firing a shot is very indicative of the low quality of Russian naval leadership at this time.<br /> The best thing about The Tsar's Last Voyage is the valuable lesson it teaches about knowing when to quit.  With the fall of Port Arthur five months before Rozhestvensky's fleet reached the Pacific, the Russians lost their best naval base and the main reason for sending the fleet.  Indeed, Rozhestvensky expected the fleet to be recalled, but the Tsar was obstinate.  After the fall of Port Arthur, continuing the mission was virtual suicide, but the Russian High Command became irrevocably committed to a course of action despite changing battlefield realities.  While recalling the fleet would have been embarrassing, allowing it to proceed to its virtual annihilation was humiliating.  Thus, this book provides interesting insights into the Tsar's pig-headedness that would ultimately lead to war, disaster and revolution.On the other hand, readers will learn more about the Russian sub-commanders, Nebogatov and  Enkvist, than standard accounts offer.  In particular, Nebogatov's surrender of several elderly Russian battleships without firing a shot is very indicative of the low quality of Russian naval leadership at this time.  <br /> The best thing about The Tsar's Last Voyage is the valuable lesson it teaches about knowing when to quit.  With the fall of Port Arthur five months before Rozhestvensky's fleet reached the Pacific, the Russians lost their best naval base and the main reason for sending the fleet.  Indeed, Rozhestvensky expected the fleet to be recalled, but the Tsar was obstinate.  After the fall of Port Arthur, continuing the mission was virtual suicide, but the Russian High Command became irrevocably committed to a course of action despite changing battlefield realities.  While recalling the fleet would have been embarrassing, allowing it to proceed to its virtual annihilation was humiliating.  Thus, this book provides interesting insights into the Tsar's pig-headedness that would ultimately lead to war, disaster and revolution.	2002-05-19
1546803:US	52533596	R3O6BBNFTHCOOR	0805070869	535954953	To Hell and Back	Books	4	79	84	N	Y	The Modest Hero	Audie Murphy's To Hell and Back is one of the quintessential front-line soldier accounts of the Second World War.  The book is not a memoir or autobiography, since Murphy wrote little of it himself and describes little of his life before or after his combat experiences.  Nor does Murphy even mention any of awards, including the Medal of Honor, or the fact that he served the entire war in B Company, 1-15th Infantry, 3rd Infantry Division. The book focuses entirely on the period July 1943 to March 1945, with most of the emphasis on the Anzio, Southern France and Vosges campaigns.  On the negative side, Murphy's account is extremely self-effacing and at times is more focused on his squad members, whose GI Joe conversations appear fake and silly.  Nevertheless, Murphy's comrades appear as real human beings and the reader will regret the death of each.  To Hell and Back is not particularly well written - it is in fact a rather pedestrian account that wanders at times - but what it lacks in style it delivers in frank reality.  Murphy's wartime account is often brutal - sometimes humorous - but it makes other more recent homogenized efforts like Band of Brothers seem contrived in comparison.<br /> Currently, the myth has been propagated that only highly trained specialists in peak physical and mental condition should engage in close infantry combat.  Audi Murphy, the scrawny, orphaned teenager from Texas who was rejected by the marines and paratroopers, stands to discredit that myth.  In combat, Murphy found his niche in life.  With a carbine in his hands, Murphy became a real killer.  Quick reflexes, common sense and a certain amount of luck gave him the edge and allowed him to survive all his original squad mates.  A great deal has been written and speculated about Murphy's psychology and motivations; there is no doubt that he sought out combat even when he could have avoided it.  Was he a war-lover or have a death wish?  No.  Murphy fought because he was good at it.  As the main character in the French film Capitaine Conan noted, \\"millions were in the war but only a few thousand actually fought it.\\"  Murphy was one of those soldiers who was never content just to survive the war but rather, he was strongly motivated to play an active role.  While Murphy never cracked under the strain of nearly two years of combat, there is little doubt that the war marked him indelibly. By Anzio, Murphy had become imbued with a tough, no-nonsense set of values.  At the end of To Hell and Back, Murphy writes, \\"when I was a child, I was told that men were branded by war.  Has the brand been put on me?  Have the years of blood and ruin stripped me of all decency?  Of all belief?  Not of all belief.  I believe in the force of a hand grenade, the power of artillery, the accuracy of a Garand.  I believe in hitting before you get hit, and that dead men do not look noble.\\"<br /> Unfortunately, the weakest aspect of To Hell and Back is the author's failure to paint a complete portrait of himself.  Important issues, like how did a combat-wise Sergeant Murphy deal with his inexperienced lieutenants in Anzio or France are virtually ignored.  The fact that Murphy rose from squad leader, to platoon sergeant, to platoon leader to company commander in the same company is never addressed, but would have been very interesting.  How did Murphy handle the transition from enlisted, to NCO to commissioned officer surrounded by his peers?  To Hell and Back is enhanced by the fact that it was written only shortly after the war when memories were still sharp, but the rush to publish a \\"blood and guts\\" account undermines the value of Murphy's story.  The brief introduction by Tom Brokaw also appears a blatant attempt to market a dead hero, as if his name was brand-name merchandise.  Brokaw says nothing of value in this introduction, and it should have been written by somebody who actually knew the man, rather than some publicity-hog talking head from NBC who never met him or served in the military.<br /> Hopefully, the reprint of To Hell and Back will help to keep alive the notion that America can produce fine soldiers from places other than West Point.  Murphy's book should also be compared with other war memoirs from other authors and other wars.  Recently, I read the Persian Gulf War memoir entitled The Eyes of Orion, and was struck by the authors' near-obsession with post-war graduate school plans while remaining virtually oblivious to their potential for battlefield death.  Murphy said, \\"until the last shot is fired, I will go on living from day to day, making no postwar plans.\\"  Compared with the pretentious, homogenized, backbiting Band of Brothers, Murphy's book seems incredibly modest and civil.  Although Murphy's unit suffered heavy casualties and was often short of food in the front-line, the author never complained about his superiors or the US Army.  Murphy's unselfish and uncritical reflection of his wartime service should stand as an example of others who serve and write.him or served in the military. <br /> Hopefully, the reprint of To Hell and Back will help to keep alive the notion that America can produce fine soldiers from places other than West Point.  Murphy's book should also be compared with other war memoirs from other authors and other wars.  Recently, I read the Persian Gulf War memoir entitled The Eyes of Orion, and was struck by the authors' near-obsession with post-war graduate school plans while remaining virtually oblivious to their potential for battlefield death.  Murphy said, \\"until the last shot is fired, I will go on living from day to day, making no postwar plans.\\"  Compared with the pretentious, homogenized, backbiting Band of Brothers, Murphy's book seems incredibly modest and civil.  Although Murphy's unit suffered heavy casualties and was often short of food in the front-line, the author never complained about his superiors or the US Army.  Murphy's unselfish and uncritical reflection of his wartime service should stand as an example of others who serve and write.	2002-05-12
1546972:US	52533596	R2E2J9V37DZD04	1855326094	127874219	Bannockburn 1314: Robert Bruce’s great victory (Campaign)	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	An Excellent Campaign Summary	Pete Armstrong, a British artist and model-builder, has written an excellent campaign summary of Scotland's greatest military victory, the Battle of Bannockburn in 1314.  Although some of the exact details of this famous battle remain open to debate, Armstrong does a fair job in presenting a balanced campaign narrative that incorporates different viewpoints.  Bannockburn is also enhanced by excellent artwork and maps, which help to bring the battle into sharp focus.  All in all, this is one of the better Osprey Campaign series titles.<br /> In accordance with standard Osprey Campaign series format, Bannockburn 1314 begins with short sections on the origins of the campaign (8 pages), a campaign chronology, opposing commanders, opposing armies and opposing plans.  The section on armies details the infantry and cavalry formations of both sides and the author stresses that while the English had superior cavalry, their failure to employ combined arms tactics utilizing both infantry and cavalry was a fundamental flaw in their numerically superior army.  Certainly combined arms tactics are sound advice in any period, but while the author points out the English failure in this regard, he fails to point out how the Scottish were any different.  If the English were overly reliant on their cavalry, the Scots were certainly overly reliant on spear-armed infantry.  The Scots had no answer to the English superior quality and quantity in archers, and this had led to the defeat at Falkirk 16 years before.  The section on plans notes that the English King Edward II was well provided with intelligence about the enemy as well as supplies, but had no real plan of campaign other than to relieve the siege of Stirling Castle.  Edward's lack of combat experience and his assumption that the Scots would disperse in the face of a major English invasion are cited as primary causes of his negligent planning.  Again, while the author's assessment of deficient English planning appears correct, it is hard to see that the Scottish King Robert the Bruce had any serious plan of campaign either.  Until the second day of battle, the Scots kept their options open to fight or flee and their victory was the result of opportunity, rather than planning.<br /> The campaign narrative itself is 38 pages long and is enhanced by five 2-D maps (Scotland in 1314, Edward II's invasion, the flight of the English army, Scottish raids in northern England, Bannockburn then and now) and three 3-D &quot;Birds Eye View&quot; maps (the fighting on 23 June 1314, the Scottish attack and the collapse of the English army).  There are also three excellent battle scenes: the encounter between Robert the Bruce and Henry de Bohun, the attack of the Earl of Gloucester's cavalry on a Scottish schiltron and Edward II's flight).  A somewhat longer than usual 20-page section on the battle's aftermath covers casualties, reasons for the English defeat, results of the battle, the continuation of the English-Scot war and changes in military tactics because of the battle.  Indeed, the author should be applauded for finding space for some analysis of the battle.  Essentially, the author blames most of the defeat upon Edward II's atrocious lack of leadership and faulty decisions, which was certainly a key ingredient in the disaster.  Coupled to Edward's poor leadership, Robert the Bruce's ability to boldly seize opportunity presented by English indecision and confusion resulted in a successful Scottish counterattack on the second day.  Rather than merely blaming one individual, I think it might be fairer to say that English arrogance was to blame for the defeat, since this same kind of arrogance figured in other battles where professional English armies opposed irregulars (e.g. the American Revolution, the Zulus, the Boers).  Inexperienced as he was, Edward II probably would have entered battle more cautiously if opposing a professional continental foe like the French or Spanish.  The author does conclude that the English eventually learned at great cost to deal with Scottish tactics and that they put this to good use against the French in the Hundred Years War.lude that the English eventually learned at great cost to deal with Scottish tactics and that they put this to good use against the French in the Hundred Years War.	2002-05-12
1551208:US	52533596	R2U339JLAI0QM7	1841764108	904405948	Hampton Roads 1862: Clash of the Ironclads (Campaign)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	An Excellent Campaign Summary	While a number of books have covered the famous engagement in March 1862 between the first ironclad warships, the USS Monitor and the CSS Virginia, few have ever attempted to place this revolutionary battle in a campaign narrative that goes beyond the few hours of actual fighting.  In Osprey Campaign #103, British naval aficionado Angus Konstam sets out not only to summarize the famous naval engagements of 8-9 March 1862 in Hampton Roads, but to cover the events leading up to and following the battle.  While most Osprey Campaign volumes are strained to cover large campaigns in anything like meaningful detail, the limited scope of the Hampton Roads campaign is well suited for coverage in a 96-page volume.  As a campaign summary, Hampton Roads 1862 is a great success, both in terms of breadth and depth.<br /> In accordance with the standard Osprey Campaign format, Hampton Roads 1862 begins with a brief introduction and chronology, followed by sections on opposing leaders and forces.  The leaders section covers the secretary of the navy, ironclad designers and vessel commanders for both the Federal and Confederate sides.  In the opposing forces section, the author covers the origin and design of both the USS Monitor and the CSS Virginia, as well as the role of the Federal blockading squadron, the Confederate James River Squadron, the CSS Virginia's armed tugboat escorts (which are rarely mentioned in most accounts of the battle) and the army units involved in local coastal defense. Complete technical details are provided on all warships, but exact information on the Federal and Confederate army units involved is not provided.  An 18-page section covers the background to the battle, including the capture of Norfolk Navy Yard in April 1861, the conversion of the ex-USS Merrimac, the construction of the USS Monitor and the Monitor's near-disastrous coast-hugging voyage to Hampton Roads. The two-day Battle of Hampton Roads is covered in 43 pages and includes much information that is often glossed over in other accounts. A brief section on aftermath covers the fate of the CSS Virginia and the USS Monitor.  There are a total of five 2-D maps (the Confederate seaboard in March 1862, Hampton Roads area, the Monitor's voyage to Hampton Roads, warship dispositions on 8 March 1862, operations in the Peninsula Area May 1862) and three 3-D &quot;Birds Eye View&quot; maps (the attack on the USS Cumberland and USS Congress, and two covering the early and later phases of the Monitor-Virginia engagement).  There are also three excellent battle scenes: the final construction of the CSS Virginia, inside Monitor's turret and the Virginia's attempt to ram the Monitor).<br /> Overall, this is an excellent Osprey Campaign title.  The only obvious error was the misquote of Union casualties from the sinking of the USS Cumberland and USS Congress, when the author asserts that, &quot;over 2,650 sailors had been killed, and almost as many were wounded.&quot;  This bizarre error must be the result of poor editing, since the combined crews of both Union warships were only around 600 sailors.  Actual losses from both ships totaled about 260 killed and 110 wounded.  Otherwise, the author displays sound analysis of the main points of the battle as well as the oft-ignored minutiae, such as the role of the neutral French observer warship, the Confederate attempt to board the Monitor and the actions of the James River Squadron.  Very well done.tion that is often glossed over in other accounts. A brief section on aftermath covers the fate of the CSS Virginia and the USS Monitor.  There are a total of five 2-D maps (the Confederate seaboard in March 1862, Hampton Roads area, the Monitor's voyage to Hampton Roads, warship dispositions on 8 March 1862, operations in the Peninsula Area May 1862) and three 3-D &quot;Birds Eye View&quot; maps (the attack on the USS Cumberland and USS Congress, and two covering the early and later phases of the Monitor-Virginia engagement).  There are also three excellent battle scenes: the final construction of the CSS Virginia, inside Monitor's turret and the Virginia's attempt to ram the Monitor).  <br /> Overall, this is an excellent Osprey Campaign title.  The only obvious error was the misquote of Union casualties from the sinking of the USS Cumberland and USS Congress, when the author asserts that, &quot;over 2,650 sailors had been killed, and almost as many were wounded.&quot;  This bizarre error must be the result of poor editing, since the combined crews of both Union warships were only around 600 sailors.  Actual losses from both ships totaled about 260 killed and 110 wounded.  Otherwise, the author displays sound analysis of the main points of the battle as well as the oft-ignored minutiae, such as the role of the neutral French observer warship, the Confederate attempt to board the Monitor and the actions of the James River Squadron.  Very well done.	2002-05-08
1555467:US	52533596	R1NOQ2URPFL7C6	1841761362	364767922	Austerlitz 1805: The fate of empires (Campaign)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	A Qualified Improvement	In 1990, Osprey published Campaign #2 Austerlitz 1805 by the renowned Napoleonic expert Dr. David Chandler.  Now twelve years later, Osprey Campaign #101 by Ian Castle returns to the scene of Napoleon's greatest battlefield triumph.  Inevitably, the two volumes will be compared and so far they are the only Osprey campaign series titles to cover the same subject.  Naturally, the question arises on whether this new volume is, in fact an improvement.  The short answer is...a qualified yes.  This review will attempt to examine Austerlitz 1805 both on its on merits and in comparison to Chandler's earlier volume.<br /> Austerlitz 1805 begins in standard Osprey format with short sections on the road to war, opposing plans, campaign chronology, opposing commanders and opposing armies - a total of 18 pages.  Unfortunately, these opening sections are rather weak even by summary standards.  In the plans section, Castle makes virtually no mention of French dispositions for war (e.g. Marshal Massena in Italy), the near-simultaneous Trafalgar campaign or why Napoleon chose to make his main effort in Bavaria instead of Italy, as the Austrians expected.  The section on leaders is absurdly top-heavy, covering only Napoleon, Tsar Alexander I, Emperor Francis I and Kutuzov; Napoleon's key subordinates like Soult, Lannes and Murat are only mentioned in the battle narrative.  Now in comparison to Chandler's earlier volume, Castle's volume virtually apes the master in these opening sections, sometimes paragraph by paragraph.  Indeed, Castle's volume is clearly inferior to Chandler's in terms of background material.  However this disparity begins to shift once the campaign narrative begins, because this is where Castle has put virtually all of his new material.  Castle covers the preliminary Ulm campaign and the approach to Austerlitz in 17 pages, one page more than Chandler. The battle narrative itself is 42 pages, compared to 34 pages by Chandler.  There are also a total of five 2-D maps  (strategic plans of the 3rd Coalition, French advance to the Danube, Ulm encirclement, Austerlitz pre-battle dispositions, and the Treaty of Pressburg) and four 3-D \\"Birds Eye View\\" maps (Soult's assault on the Pratzen Heights, Lannes and Murat versus Bagration's advance guard, the attack of the Russian Imperial Guard and the retreat across the frozen ponds). There are also three excellent battle scenes: the fighting at Telnitz, charge of the Russian Guard cavalry and the Allied retreat across the frozen ponds.  There is little doubt that the maps and artwork are of far higher quality than in Chandler's earlier volume, but of course Osprey has evolved over twelve years.<br /> The main value of Castle's revised Austerlitz 1805 lies in the greater detail provided on the four main aspects of the battle: Soult's seizure of the Pratzen Heights, the cavalry-infantry actions in the north, the Russian Imperial Guard counterattack and the Allied retreat.  Castle knows the battlefield terrain well and his research into Austrian archives has yielded useful details that were lacking earlier.  For example, Chandler did not mention that the French 4th Line Infantry lost their eagle to the Russian Guard cavalry - the only Allied triumph that day.  The struggle for the Pratzen also appears to have wavered back and forth for some time, until superior French training and discipline carried the day; other accounts tend to make this key attack seem like a foregone conclusion.  Finally, the Allied retreat across the frozen ponds is presented with more balance, showing that Austrian cavalry fought a successful rearguard that saved many troops, rather than the usual massacre-style portrayal of this rout.  In the regards of providing greater detail on this key Napoleonic battle, there is little doubt that the author's research has provided a good overall summary and one that exceeds the detail of Chandler's earlier volume.<br /> However, Castle's take on Austerlitz suffers from the sameproblem evident in many other Osprey campaign titles - failure to analyze.  In terms of the principle of war, while the French demonstrated amazing prowess in economy of force (Legrand's division held off the main Allied attack for two crucial hours), maneuver, surprise and unity of command, they and the Allies both failed to employ mass.  The main Allied attack was intended to achieve 4-1 local superiority on the French right in order to crumple Napoleon's flank but as Castle notes, clumsy tactical movements reduced this initial attack to a series of 2-1 odds attacks into built-up areas.  Result: delay, stalemate and indecision.  Yet Castle fails to note that Soult's attack on the Pratzen Heights - the French main effort - was only a 1-1 odds attack up a hill mass and even if reinforced by Bernadotte, the odds only increased to 3:2.  Without a decisive local superiority in mass, the French main effort hung in the balance until superior training tipped the balance.  Castle notes this seesaw fighting, but fails to address why it occurred.  Both the French and the Allies over-committed troops in the less critical northern sector and maintained their small guard corps as reserves.  Neither side was prepared to deal with the eventuality of their main attack stalling and had only limited reserves to redress such an event.  Nor does Castle address other important tactical issues, such as the effect of the early morning mist on Allied artillery, which had a 2-1 superiority over the French.  Austerlitz is rightly regarded as a great French military triumph, but an analysis of this triumph should go beyond merely assessing the Allies as clumsy and la Grande Arm&eacute;e as invincible. In fact, even a cursory analysis should indicate that Napoleon won this battle by a fairly slim margin and that it could have gone the other way or been an indecisive draw.same problem evident in many other Osprey campaign titles - failure to analyze.  In terms of the principle of war, while the French demonstrated amazing prowess in economy of force (Legrand's division held off the main Allied attack for two crucial hours), maneuver, surprise and unity of command, they and the Allies both failed to employ mass.  The main Allied attack was intended to achieve 4-1 local superiority on the French right in order to crumple Napoleon's flank but as Castle notes, clumsy tactical movements reduced this initial attack to a series of 2-1 odds attacks into built-up areas.  Result: delay, stalemate and indecision.  Yet Castle fails to note that Soult's attack on the Pratzen Heights - the French main effort - was only a 1-1 odds attack up a hill mass and even if reinforced by Bernadotte, the odds only increased to 3:2.  Without a decisive local superiority in mass, the French main effort hung in the balance until superior training tipped the balance.  Castle notes this seesaw fighting, but fails to address why it occurred.  Both the French and the Allies over-committed troops in the less critical northern sector and maintained their small guard corps as reserves.  Neither side was prepared to deal with the eventuality of their main attack stalling and had only limited reserves to redress such an event.  Nor does Castle address other important tactical issues, such as the effect of the early morning mist on Allied artillery, which had a 2-1 superiority over the French.  Austerlitz is rightly regarded as a great French military triumph, but an analysis of this triumph should go beyond merely assessing the Allies as clumsy and la Grande Armée as invincible. In fact, even a cursory analysis should indicate that Napoleon won this battle by a fairly slim margin and that it could have gone the other way or been an indecisive draw.	2002-05-05
1557632:US	52533596	RAYY3LMZG5H9C	0873387155	449133980	The Eyes of Orion: Five Tank Lieutenants in the Persian Gulf War	Books	1	23	33	N	N	Self-Absorbed Whining	Ostensibly, the Eyes of Orion is a war memoir of five American armor lieutenants in the Persian Gulf War. In actuality, most of this book was written by only two of the lieutenants - roommates Vernon and Holmes - with only minor participation by the other three. The Eyes of Orion consists of five sections covering pre-deployment activities, Desert Shield, the Air War, the Ground War (only 26% of the book) and Redeployment. The book has numerous sins, beginning with its pretentious title; at different times the authors assert that the constellation Orion is the \\"God's eternal monument to soldiers,\\" that he is \\"the liberator\\" or can unite two separated lovers across vast distances. Please. The structure of the book itself is not only annoying, it is confusing since the five lieutenants' stories are often interwoven without identifying who has written a particular section. Nor does Vernon, the primary author, take much effort to introduce the unit or characters in any kind of logical order; it is not until page 69 that we learn exactly which companies each of the authors served in during the war. Four of the five LTs are West Pointers, with a token ROTC lieutenant thrown in because he was the scout platoon leader; the over-focus on West Pointers appears cliquish and elitist. Perhaps the worst sin of this book is the alienation of all possible audiences: military readers expecting a war memoir will be disappointed by the anti-US Army tone of much of the book, historians will be disappointed by its casual attitude toward rumors and facts and the general reader will find this book too plodding and confusing. Advice to new lieutenants at Ft Knox: avoid this book like the plague!<br /> Since most of the book is written by Vernon, the book collapses under the weight of this lieutenant's evident and self-admitted flaws. Vernon, as well as some of his cohorts, believed that the US Military Academy existed to give him access to sports and a free education, and that the US Army was a good place to spend a few years until graduate school. Prior to the war, the authors all complain that they had little or no field training with their platoons, although Holmes had time to go to the London School of Economics (and then claims he hadn't had a chance to learn the names of all his platoon members). There's a lot of selfish dishonesty in this book and it begins in the pre-deployment phase. However when orders for deployment to the desert came, Vernon begins to come unglued. Vernon cries a lot, and former tankers will find this nauseating. At Ft Stewart, Vernon cries in the chaplain's office, pleading not to be deployed. Once deployed, Vernon cries when he sees a Julia Roberts movie, when he sees a goat giving birth, when he dreams, whenever his company commander criticizes him. On the other hand, Vernon spends a great deal of the book criticizing his superiors: his battalion commander (\\"..in the desert I hated him. I hated him because he was a warrior.\\"), President Bush (for refusing Gary Trudeau permission to visit the troops), his company commander, his platoon sergeant, etc. Vernon's leadership skills were non-existent; in one letter just before the ground war he wrote, \\"I do not want to lead men into battle. I want nothing to do with the things leaders do.\\" Morale and discipline in Vernon's platoon appear shockingly bad, with the author unable to get his allegedly brain-dead platoon sergeant to do anything (the reader should consider that the truth may have been the opposite). It also appears that Vernon displayed cowardice in the face of the enemy at the only significant fighting his unit participated in, the attack on Jalibah airfield on 27 February 1991. The author's account is unclear, but somehow his platoon failed to link up with rest of the task force, failed to find the airfield that was under attack and failed to see a single enemy (when all four of his cohorts were under fire). This sounds suspiciously like deliberately getting lostto avoid combat. At the end, the author offers a mea culpa of sorts by asserting, \\"I knew I did not have the stuff to command troops...American soldiers deserve better leadership than I could provide.\\"<br /> The elitist angle and faux intellectualism of this book is also annoying. The West Pointers read French essays on Cowardice and the Economist. While the soldiers talk about getting back to the land of beer, pizza and hot women, their elitist lieutenants discuss plans for grad school. Amazingly, there is no mention of \\"duty, honor, country\\" by any of the West Pointers. Did they miss that part of their four-year military education? Once the war is over, four of the five quickly opt to leave the US Army for hypocritical reasons: I can't stay because I could deploy for another war, but it's boring in the peace-time US Army if there is no war. Ridiculous. When the Army gives them a chance, they stiff the US taxpayers by leaving the service with 40% of their obligation remaining and quickly trot off to grad school and business opportunities. It is also irksome that several of these lieutenants complain that they didn't want to remain in the army to be \\"only a staff officer,\\" or in a non-armor slot. The level of immaturity and unprofessionalism is astounding - they apparently never digested the \\"needs of the service\\" imperative of a military career. In fact, the level of self-absorbed, whining and avoidance of self-sacrifice evident in these pages is totally at odds with the ethics of the officer corps.to avoid combat. At the end, the author offers a mea culpa of sorts by asserting, \\"I knew I did not have the stuff to command troops...American soldiers deserve better leadership than I could provide.\\" <br /> The elitist angle and faux intellectualism of this book is also annoying. The West Pointers read French essays on Cowardice and the Economist. While the soldiers talk about getting back to the land of beer, pizza and hot women, their elitist lieutenants discuss plans for grad school. Amazingly, there is no mention of \\"duty, honor, country\\" by any of the West Pointers. Did they miss that part of their four-year military education? Once the war is over, four of the five quickly opt to leave the US Army for hypocritical reasons: I can't stay because I could deploy for another war, but it's boring in the peace-time US Army if there is no war. Ridiculous. When the Army gives them a chance, they stiff the US taxpayers by leaving the service with 40% of their obligation remaining and quickly trot off to grad school and business opportunities. It is also irksome that several of these lieutenants complain that they didn't want to remain in the army to be \\"only a staff officer,\\" or in a non-armor slot. The level of immaturity and unprofessionalism is astounding - they apparently never digested the \\"needs of the service\\" imperative of a military career. In fact, the level of self-absorbed, whining and avoidance of self-sacrifice evident in these pages is totally at odds with the ethics of the officer corps.	2002-05-02
1558756:US	52533596	R1ONS7VWOK6FUQ	1855326078	526072959	Okinawa 1945: The last battle (Campaign)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	One of the Best of the Campaign Series	Former Green Beret Gordon L. Rottman provides an excellent summary of America's last great amphibious invasion of the Second World War in Osprey's Campaign #96, Okinawa 1945.  Quite simply, this is one of the better titles in Osprey's campaign series and shows that it is possible to pack a great deal about a major military operation into a 96-page format.  This book is particularly useful as a case study for military officers, thanks to the author's attention to many pertinent details that escape most civilian authors.  Overall, Okinawa 1945 is a \\"must-have\\" for anyone interested in the later stages of the Pacific War.<br /> Although Rottman follows the standard Osprey campaign format, the opening chapters of this volume are far more in-depth than virtually all the other titles in the series.  An 11-page introduction covers the history and terrain of Okinawa, as well as the American strategic debate about whether to invade Okinawa or Formosa.  The section on opposing plans is also quite detailed, totaling 10 pages.  Seven pages are used to cover opposing high-level commanders on both sides.  Another 12 pages are used to cover opposing forces, including succinct but detailed discussions of tactical organization and strength and weaknesses of each major unit.  Pertinent characteristics are included; such as each US Army division in the invasion was about 1,000 infantrymen under strength due to a shortage of replacements and the fact that one of the two Japanese divisions on the island had no organic artillery.  Taken together, Rottman provides a far more detailed introduction to the campaign than any other Osprey title, by spending fully 52% of the volume on the background material.  Unfortunately, the strength of the introduction leads to the weakness of the main campaign narrative that - while good - is overly succinct.  The invasion itself is covered in 33 pages: sections on the initial landings, the continuing offensive, actions at sea, and the push southward.  There are three color battle scenes: Japanese suicide boats at Naha, Marines reducing a bunker and the virtual annihilation of the US 193rd Tank Battalion on 19 April 1945.  There are a total of five 2-D maps (strategic situation, Okinawa, the initial landings, the Ie Shima assault, and the withdrawal of the 32nd Army)and three 3-D \\"Birds Eye View\\" maps (the Japanese counteroffensive on May 4-6, 1945, the Battle for Sugar Loaf Hill, and the final stand in the south).  The author also effectively uses footnotes at the end of each section to provide additional details.<br /> Okinawa 1945 has a great many strengths.  The author's discussion of terrain and weather (e.g. the impact of rain on operations) greatly enhances the reader's appreciation for the operational environment.  Rottman also makes very good use of statistics, particularly concerning military and civilian casualties.  For example, I was unaware that 153 of 354 American tanks used on Okinawa were knocked out by the Japanese - a 43% loss rate for US armor.  Nor was I aware that fully one-third of Okinawa's civilian population died in the campaign.  The author also covers the challenges of civil-military operations (CMO); the US military had to screen and care for over 285,000 indigenous civilians on Okinawa.  The introduction of some new weapons - such as the American 75mm recoilless rifles is discussed, as well as how both sides adapted their tactics based upon lessons learned from previous island battles.  In particular, the Japanese adoption of defense-in-depth and attritional tactics allowed the Americans to get ashore at low cost, but provided the basis for a bloody, protracted campaign.  Finally, the author provides a superb order of battle for both sides, including information on support units such as signal, engineer, medical, quartermaster, and MPs.  Even the US Marine Corps' three canine platoons are included.<br /> The only real disadvantage of Okinawa 1945 - which is the overly short shrift givento the main battles on the Shuri Line - is not the author's fault, but rather due to Osprey's size limits.  The last six weeks of the campaign are covered in about six pages, which leaves room for only a bare-bones account.  No eyewitness accounts are incorporated into the campaign narrative, which could have been used to add intensity and grunt-level perspective.  Otherwise, the campaign seems just like flags moving on a map, without real soldiers bleeding and dying.  The maps are also a bit inadequate, particularly since no map depicts the initial battles or dispositions on the Machinato Line.  The question of General Buckner's operational plans is also studiously avoided; over 7,600 Americans died on Okinawa and the question should have been raised if these losses were excessive.  Due to the Japanese concentration of most of their forces in the south of the island, Buckner was able to land his troops and occupy the vital airfields and more than two-thirds of the island at the cost of fewer than 500 dead.  The Americans came to Okinawa to get the airfields and they succeeded in seizing them at very low cost.  Was it really necessary to engage the remaining Japanese garrison - hopelessly trapped in one corner of the island - in a bloody attritional battle for over 80 days?  With so many Japanese garrisons bypassed across the Pacific, it seems odd that Buckner never considered sealing the Japanese 32nd Division off and slowly reducing them to impotence by bombardment and starvation.  Particularly given the fact that the Joint Chiefs of Staff knew of the impending Atomic Bomb raids, it seems odd that so many American leaders would endorse an attritional battle like Okinawa at this stage of the war.iven to the main battles on the Shuri Line - is not the author's fault, but rather due to Osprey's size limits.  The last six weeks of the campaign are covered in about six pages, which leaves room for only a bare-bones account.  No eyewitness accounts are incorporated into the campaign narrative, which could have been used to add intensity and grunt-level perspective.  Otherwise, the campaign seems just like flags moving on a map, without real soldiers bleeding and dying.  The maps are also a bit inadequate, particularly since no map depicts the initial battles or dispositions on the Machinato Line.  The question of General Buckner's operational plans is also studiously avoided; over 7,600 Americans died on Okinawa and the question should have been raised if these losses were excessive.  Due to the Japanese concentration of most of their forces in the south of the island, Buckner was able to land his troops and occupy the vital airfields and more than two-thirds of the island at the cost of fewer than 500 dead.  The Americans came to Okinawa to get the airfields and they succeeded in seizing them at very low cost.  Was it really necessary to engage the remaining Japanese garrison - hopelessly trapped in one corner of the island - in a bloody attritional battle for over 80 days?  With so many Japanese garrisons bypassed across the Pacific, it seems odd that Buckner never considered sealing the Japanese 32nd Division off and slowly reducing them to impotence by bombardment and starvation.  Particularly given the fact that the Joint Chiefs of Staff knew of the impending Atomic Bomb raids, it seems odd that so many American leaders would endorse an attritional battle like Okinawa at this stage of the war.	2002-05-02
1574530:US	52533596	R1CPD09HLWAGZT	0764301276	68554503	Assault on Moscow 1941: The Offensive  The Battle  The Set-Back (Schiffer Military History)	Books	2	36	43	N	N	Propaganda Disguised as History	Assault on Moscow 1941 was published in Germany in 1986 and then translated into English ten years later.  Superficially, the book is attractive and appears loaded with interesting photographs, maps and appendices.  However readers should regard Werner Haupt's account with a large grain of salt, since much of this so-called \\"history\\" is little more than re-packaged wartime propaganda.  Readers familiar with Paul Carrell's excellent book Hitler Moves East will find Haupt's account far inferior.  Furthermore the sterile nature of this account - which concerns itself primarily with the high-level activities of armies, corps and divisions - will not appeal to most readers.<br /> Assault on Moscow 1941 consists of 12 chapters, beginning with two introductory sections that cover operations in the ArmeeGruppe Center sector in June-August 1941.  Several more chapters cover the evolving debate over strategic priorities in Berlin and the genesis of the \\"Typhoon\\" plan to seize Moscow.  The actual German offensive is covered in six chapters totaling about 90 pages.  The initial Soviet counterattacks in December 1941 are covered in only one chapter.  Although Haupt occasionally refers to Soviet units or commanders, the perspective of this book is unapologetically German.  At the end of the book, there are 13 appendices that cover orders of battle, campaign chronology and command structures.  However a huge defect in this book that demolishes its historical value is the lack of any footnotes, bibliography or index.  While the author integrates eyewitness accounts and chunks of official documents into the text, he fails to cite their source.<br /> The lack of documentation is particularly damaging because so much of the \\"facts\\" presented are suspect or outright exaggerations.  Haupt claims that the German ArmeeGruppe Center suffered 103,600 casualties in December 1941 when in fact, total German casualties in the USSR in December 1941 were about 77,850.  Haupt's claims that the Germans lost 4,241 tanks and 5,100 aircraft in the Moscow offensive are absurd - the actual numbers were about 1,240 tanks in this period and 2,090 aircraft for the first six months of the campaign.  Indeed, Haupt's statistics frequently appear to be cut from whole cloth.  Haupt also has a tendency to pass along \\"trench rumors\\" as fact, such as his assertion that the German 82nd Infantry Regiment had 800 of its men freeze to death in one night!  In some cases, Haupt is just plain wrong; he asserts that in January 1942, there was \\"only one [German general] to die a soldiers death in these turbulent weeks was Major General Berthold [commander of the 31st Infantry Division].\\"  In fact, German records indicate that Berthold survived the winter and was killed on April 14, 1942.  In another case, Haupt claims that General von Cochenhausen of the 134th Division committed suicide; German records indicate that it was another commander of the 134th in 1944 who committed suicide - wrong guy, wrong year!  Finally, Haupt's photographs - while interesting - appear ripped from the pages of the German wartime propaganda magazine Signal.  One photograph shows a German soldier plowing a field with Russian peasants and Haupt's text asserts that \\"simple\\" Russians viewed the German soldiers as liberators.  No mention of German atrocities or repression measures.  Other photographs are used to suggest that Germany was on a \\"liberating\\" mission in Russia.<br /> Haupt does use many sketch maps to support his narrative, but most appear to have been drawn by a 3-year old with a broken crayon.  As for the campaign narrative, it is a flat summary of high-level operational movements, occasionally sprinkled with eyewitness accounts.  Paul Carrell was able to deliver a pro-German account of Operation Typhoon that seemed to cover everything from ArmeeGruppe to company-level actions.  Not here.  Nor is their much information from the Russian side.  Haupt does not even bother to mention the near-catastrophic Soviet losses in defending their capital; almost 52% of the defenders were casualties and Soviet armor was virtually annihilated.  On the plus side, Haupt does make somewhat more mention of the German rear-area service troops than other accounts.<br /> On the big issue - why did Typhoon fail - Haupt falls back on the old reliable German excuse: the weather.  So it goes: if it hadn't been for the early mud and snow (i.e. bad luck), Germany would have won.  Unfortunately, the facts speak otherwise.  While bad weather did have a major influence on the operation, it was not the deciding factor.  Instead, it was German logistical deficiencies that crippled Typhoon before the bad weather even started, depriving the front-line troops of ammunition, fuel, spare parts and replacements.  Other sources mention that most German units had received virtually no replacements prior to Typhoon and started the offensive 35% under strength.  Germany was producing tanks and ammunition, but due to fouled-up rail lines very little was reaching the front.  As Haupt notes, the German High Command ordered the issuing of cold weather gear in July 1941 but this vital equipment only began to reach the front in December 1941, and then only a trickle.  Amazingly, the nation that could build the first jet fighters and ballistic missiles could not deliver adequate quantities of gloves, jackets and warm boots to its front-line troops.  Simply put, the German army was very poor at combat sustainment operations, cold weather or not.  Tying in with logistical weakness, the Germans attacked Moscow on too broad a front and with too many armies (6).  Had the Germans concentrated their meager assets, they might have been able to maintain an advance with three better-supplied armies, while maintaining a sizeable reserve to deal with Soviet counterattacks.  The assertion that bad weather stopped the German army conveniently ignores the self-inflicted wounds that led to their first defeat.trophic Soviet losses in defending their capital; almost 52% of the defenders were casualties and Soviet armor was virtually annihilated.  On the plus side, Haupt does make somewhat more mention of the German rear-area service troops than other accounts.<br /> On the big issue - why did Typhoon fail - Haupt falls back on the old reliable German excuse: the weather.  So it goes: if it hadn't been for the early mud and snow (i.e. bad luck), Germany would have won.  Unfortunately, the facts speak otherwise.  While bad weather did have a major influence on the operation, it was not the deciding factor.  Instead, it was German logistical deficiencies that crippled Typhoon before the bad weather even started, depriving the front-line troops of ammunition, fuel, spare parts and replacements.  Other sources mention that most German units had received virtually no replacements prior to Typhoon and started the offensive 35% under strength.  Germany was producing tanks and ammunition, but due to fouled-up rail lines very little was reaching the front.  As Haupt notes, the German High Command ordered the issuing of cold weather gear in July 1941 but this vital equipment only began to reach the front in December 1941, and then only a trickle.  Amazingly, the nation that could build the first jet fighters and ballistic missiles could not deliver adequate quantities of gloves, jackets and warm boots to its front-line troops.  Simply put, the German army was very poor at combat sustainment operations, cold weather or not.   Tying in with logistical weakness, the Germans attacked Moscow on too broad a front and with too many armies (6).  Had the Germans concentrated their meager assets, they might have been able to maintain an advance with three better-supplied armies, while maintaining a sizeable reserve to deal with Soviet counterattacks.  The assertion that bad weather stopped the German army conveniently ignores the self-inflicted wounds that led to their first defeat.	2002-04-18
1575723:US	52533596	R3NHQNPEZBDHFG	1841762733	546929019	British Tommy (Trade Editions)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting Survey	Martin Pegler, a British museum curator, provides an excellent survey of the British soldier in the First World War in Osprey's British Tommy.  Due to size constraints, the book is limited in scope to the Western Front, but other Osprey titles cover the pre-war regular army and other fronts.  While nothing unique is introduced, Pegler provides an efficient synopsis of the main facets of the British soldier's life and conditions in the First World War.  While there are some areas that might have been better covered, Pegler succeeds in delivering a fair amount of information in this thin volume.<br /> After a brief introduction and chronology, British Tommy focuses on the recruitment, enlistment and training of British volunteers and conscripts in the early years of the First World War.  Pegler points out the total inadequacy of British combat training in 1915-1916, including suicidal movement techniques: \\"men were instructed never to lie down and seek cover when advancing, but to walk steadily toward the enemy.\\"  Given the totally unrealistic training that emphasized rote-drill movements and failed to prepare the British Tommy for the brutal realities of trench warfare, it is amazing that British soldiers performed well at all in France.  In these sections on training and recruitment, Pegler also points out that poverty was a major motivation for enlistment and that many British soldiers actually enjoyed better wages and diet in the army.  An 8-page section covers uniforms and equipment, with discussions ranging from the 70-pound soldier load to rifles, grenades and machineguns.  Other sections cover trench life, relaxation and leave, discipline, medical care and combat tactics.  The section on combat tactics is weak, but readers should realize that other Osprey titles on the First World War cover this subject in greater depth.  The photographs throughout the book are relevant and interesting.  The color plates in the center of the volume include:  a regular army corporal in 1914, a grenadier in 1916, a Lewis gunner in 1917, a Highlander in 1918, recruit training in England in 1914-1915, a Royal Artillery ammunition resupply team in 1918, a Vickers machinegun team in 1918, a tanker in 1918, British infantry equipment, and three pages of illustrations of various British infantry weapons.<br /> All in all, this is an enjoyable survey.  There are some areas that I wish had merited some mention, such as pay (the author does mention that the Tommy was less well paid than his Australian and Canadian counterparts - but by how much?), benefits (death gratuity, post-war medical treatment, etc) and morale.  On the issue of morale, there is little doubt that British morale was beginning in 1918 to decline due to heavy losses in 1916-1917; this decline in morale was reflected in greater numbers of British prisoners taken in the German Spring Offensives.  The author also effectively blends in several veterans' accounts of various subjects to add further veracity to his narrative.  British Tommy is an interesting survey of the British soldier in the First World War.poral in 1914, a grenadier in 1916, a Lewis gunner in 1917, a Highlander in 1918, recruit training in England in 1914-1915, a Royal Artillery ammunition resupply team in 1918, a Vickers machinegun team in 1918, a tanker in 1918, British infantry equipment, and three pages of illustrations of various British infantry weapons.  <br /> All in all, this is an enjoyable survey.  There are some areas that I wish had merited some mention, such as pay (the author does mention that the Tommy was less well paid than his Australian and Canadian counterparts - but by how much?), benefits (death gratuity, post-war medical treatment, etc) and morale.  On the issue of morale, there is little doubt that British morale was beginning in 1918 to decline due to heavy losses in 1916-1917; this decline in morale was reflected in greater numbers of British prisoners taken in the German Spring Offensives.  The author also effectively blends in several veterans' accounts of various subjects to add further veracity to his narrative.  British Tommy is an interesting survey of the British soldier in the First World War.	2002-04-18
1576017:US	52533596	R167YRUGI2C9K5	1841763624	72646089	U-boats of the Kaiser's Navy (New Vanguard)	Books	3	16	20	N	N	Notable by what is missing	U-Boats of the Kaiser's Navy is a brief survey of the early development of the German submarine service in 1906-1914 and operations in the First World War.  Much of this thin volume is focused on the technical characteristics of the early U-Boats, and it does succeed in detailing the main features of the various early German submarine classes.  Various sections cover the early development years, the various U-Boat classes, power plants, weapons and optics.  German U-Boat operations in the First World War are covered in the last 13 pages of this volume, with sections covering one year at a time.  The illustrations in the center of the volume mostly depict the various U-Boat classes, as well as a 2-page interior cutaway diagram of a Type UBIII submarine.  Overall, U-Boats of the Kaiser's Navy is an adequate survey of its subject, but the coverage of some areas is marginal to nil.<br /> A major deficiency of this volume is the lack of much statistical compilation effort by the author.  While the author does mention the total number of U-Boats built, he fails to mention that a total of 178 were lost in the First World or that 5,000 crewmen were lost with those boats.  The cause of U-Boat losses in the First World should also have been included, but it is not.  The author does not ever bother to tally up total U-Boat achievements in either terms of tonnage or vessels sunk, nor are several top U-Boat commanders even mentioned.  None of these statistics would have taken much space, just effort.  Finally, the author's narrative ends at the armistice in 1918, without even bothering to mention the ultimate fate of the Kaiser's U-boats.  The fact that Germany lost its entire U-Boat arm as a result of the war is not even mentioned.<br /> The author provides very little assessment of the U-Boat campaign, but what he does provide is faulty; he notes, \\"the U-Bootwaffe [service] had represented Germany's only real chance to achieve a successful conclusion to the war.\\"  This assessment is ridiculous because it ignores the fact that Germany's idiotic decision to pursue unrestricted submarine warfare was the primary cause of American intervention in the war.  Had the Kaiser forbidden unrestricted submarine warfare, the United States would have remained neutral and after 1917 Germany would have been fighting only a one-front war against the exhausted French and British armies.  Without unrestricted U-boat warfare, Germany had a very real chance to achieve a military stalemate and a favorable negotiated peace in 1918.  Furthermore, the great German U-boat campaign that the author promotes completely failed to stop the shipment of 2 million American doughboys to the Western Front; only 56 American servicemen were lost to U-Boat attacks.  The author's final conclusion that the Kaiser's U-boats were not militarily defeated rings hollow; 50% of the boats commissioned were lost and while they inflicted serious damage, German U-boats failed to achieve their strategic objectives.sessment is ridiculous because it ignores the fact that Germany's idiotic decision to pursue unrestricted submarine warfare was the primary cause of American intervention in the war.  Had the Kaiser forbidden unrestricted submarine warfare, the United States would have remained neutral and after 1917 Germany would have been fighting only a one-front war against the exhausted French and British armies.  Without unrestricted U-boat warfare, Germany had a very real chance to achieve a military stalemate and a favorable negotiated peace in 1918.  Furthermore, the great German U-boat campaign that the author promotes completely failed to stop the shipment of 2 million American doughboys to the Western Front; only 56 American servicemen were lost to U-Boat attacks.  The author's final conclusion that the Kaiser's U-boats were not militarily defeated rings hollow; 50% of the boats commissioned were lost and while they inflicted serious damage, German U-boats failed to achieve their strategic objectives.	2002-04-17
1585437:US	52533596	RPD5T3XIZ5AN3	0833030507	310891380	NATO's Air War for Kosovo: A Strategic and Operational Assessment (Project Air Force Series on Operation Allied Force)	Books	4	7	10	N	Y	The Inelegant Victory	There is little doubt that the 78-day NATO air campaign against Serbia in March-June 1999, dubbed Operation Allied Force, will remain highly controversial for a long time.  NATO launched a limited war against Serbia in order to stop the vicious on-going ethnic cleansing campaign in the province of Kosovo and although ultimately Serb President Milosevic \\"blinked,\\" it was an inelegant victory.  Yet the victory was hardly inevitable and until the final weeks the air campaign appeared to be ineffective in bending Milosevic to meet NATO's demands.  In NATO's Air War for Kosovo, RAND analyst Benjamin S. Lambeth has written an incisive strategic assessment of the air campaign as part of a US Air Force research project on the operation.  Rather than a detailed, blow-by-blow account of the air war, Lambeth offers detailed analysis on the major achievements and problems in Allied Force.  While other more detailed books will surely follow on the Kosovo War, Lambeth's volume will certainly be a good place to start in understanding this complex operation.<br /> NATO's Air War for Kosovo consists of eight chapters, beginning with two brief chapters that outline events leading up to the air campaign.  The air campaign itself is covered a chapter 3, a 50-page summary that covers the main events of NATO air operations but does not provide a day-by-day account.  The fourth chapter addresses the possible reasons for the Serb capitulation and stresses that it was not just the air campaign in isolation that prompted this outcome.  The fifth chapter covers the three main unique accomplishments of the war: combat debut of the B-2, UAV employment and increased contributions from space-based resources to combat operations.  However the heart of this book lies in chapters 6-7, which address friction and operational problems and lapses in strategy and implementation.  It is in these 118 pages - 47% of the book - that Lambeth lays out his most significant assessments of the war.  Readers will note in the bibliography that Lambeth's source-material derives from two primary venues: contemporary newspaper accounts and post-war interviews with participants.<br /> While Operation Allied Force was deemed a victory, it was a disappointing campaign from the military perspective.  As Lambeth notes, \\"notwithstanding its ultimate success, what began as a hopeful gambit for producing Milosevic's quick compliance soon developed, for a time at least, into a seemingly ineffectual bombing experiment with no clear end in sight...\\" and, \\"NATO's air war for Kosovo [was] a step backward in efficiency when compared to the Desert Storm campaign.\\"  Lambeth lays out the military frustrations of Allied Force in clinical detail, beginning with the inability of the SEAD (Suppression of Enemy Air Defenses) operations to completely shutdown the resilient Serb mobile SAM batteries.  The problems with \\"flex targeting\\" also prevented the air campaign from seriously hurting the Serb army in Kosovo or even interfering with the ongoing ethnic cleansing.  So many other problems surfaced, including the Chinese Embassy bombing, airspace management congestion, interoperability problems with NATO, collateral damage and the Task Force Hawk fiasco that it almost seems amazing that NATO actually won.  In terms of strategic lapses, Lambeth particularly hammers on President Clinton's decision to remove the ground option a priori as reducing NATO's threats to a single dimension. This threat was then further diminished by the assumption that Milosevic would fold after a token 3-4 days of bombing and the adoption of a small-scale escalation model for the bombing campaign.  When the token bombing didn't work, NATO was forced to rethink its strategy and opted for ad hoc targeting, which was hindered by overly complicated NATO planning procedures and bad weather.  Instead of taking down entire systems in Serbia - like air defense and electrical power - as the airpower enthusiasts advocated, the air campaign instead developed as a muddled, escalatory series of poorly-coordinated raids.  In the end, Lambeth concludes that it was the inability of the Serb air defenses to shoot-down a significant number of NATO aircraft and the gradual destruction of Serbia's economic-industrial infrastructure that were probably the air campaign's greatest contribution to Milosevic's decision to agree to NATO demands.  However, Lambeth is quick to note that the Russian abandonment of Milosevic, diplomatic isolation and the threat of eventual NATO ground operations also had a major impact on the Serb leader's decision.  Milosevic's decision to escalate the ethnic cleansing campaign in Kosovo was also a major strategic blunder that partly counter-acted NATO mistakes; Serb atrocities only served to harden NATO resolve for victory.<br /> There are a few areas where Lambeth treads too lightly.  In terms of accomplishments, American Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) capabilities were impressively displayed in Operation Allied Force.  Including Scott O'Grady's F-16 shot down earlier, American CSAR capabilities are 3 for 3 in the Balkans, which improves the morale of US pilots and hurts the morale of the enemy.  Lambeth also fails to provide any real overall assessment of the damage done to Serbia by airpower in Allied Force, nor even a summary of the major infrastructure targets that were affected.  Finally, while Lambeth mentions the strikes on the Belgrade TV station on 21 April 1999, he fails to put this raid in moral context.  Inadvertent collateral damage is a painful but unavoidable fact or warfare - as Lambeth notes - but deliberate targeting of a civilian facility is another matter.  The Laws of Warfare, which the United States adheres to explicitly prohibit attacks directed against civilians and/or attacks that serve no military purpose.  While the TV station was a conduit for Milosevic's propaganda, this did not make it a legitimate military target.  Therefore, the order to attack the TV station was both immoral and illegal and the US military leaders who carried it out could someday be liable before an international tribunal.  Given the large numbers of targets that were \\"scrubbed\\" during the campaign for weather or collateral damage reasons, it is amazing that this attack was carried out in downtown Belgrade.paign instead developed as a muddled, escalatory series of poorly-coordinated raids.  In the end, Lambeth concludes that it was the inability of the Serb air defenses to shoot-down a significant number of NATO aircraft and the gradual destruction of Serbia's economic-industrial infrastructure that were probably the air campaign's greatest contribution to Milosevic's decision to agree to NATO demands.  However, Lambeth is quick to note that the Russian abandonment of Milosevic, diplomatic isolation and the threat of eventual NATO ground operations also had a major impact on the Serb leader's decision.  Milosevic's decision to escalate the ethnic cleansing campaign in Kosovo was also a major strategic blunder that partly counter-acted NATO mistakes; Serb atrocities only served to harden NATO resolve for victory.   <br /> There are a few areas where Lambeth treads too lightly.  In terms of accomplishments, American Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) capabilities were impressively displayed in Operation Allied Force.  Including Scott O'Grady's F-16 shot down earlier, American CSAR capabilities are 3 for 3 in the Balkans, which improves the morale of US pilots and hurts the morale of the enemy.  Lambeth also fails to provide any real overall assessment of the damage done to Serbia by airpower in Allied Force, nor even a summary of the major infrastructure targets that were affected.  Finally, while Lambeth mentions the strikes on the Belgrade TV station on 21 April 1999, he fails to put this raid in moral context.  Inadvertent collateral damage is a painful but unavoidable fact or warfare - as Lambeth notes - but deliberate targeting of a civilian facility is another matter.  The Laws of Warfare, which the United States adheres to explicitly prohibit attacks directed against civilians and/or attacks that serve no military purpose.  While the TV station was a conduit for Milosevic's propaganda, this did not make it a legitimate military target.  Therefore, the order to attack the TV station was both immoral and illegal and the US military leaders who carried it out could someday be liable before an international tribunal.  Given the large numbers of targets that were \\"scrubbed\\" during the campaign for weather or collateral damage reasons, it is amazing that this attack was carried out in downtown Belgrade.	2002-04-10
1592003:US	52533596	R248BER8Z7NYRO	1856351718	942778572	The French Are in the Bay: The Expedition to Bantry Bay, 1796	Books	2	1	3	N	Y	More Mythology Than History	The French Are in the Bay is a compendium of Irish scholarly essays on the French expedition to Bantry Bay in December 1796.  The French had dispatched the expedition in the hope of landing, inflicting a defeat upon the British forces there and thereby inducing England to negotiate a peace agreement.  Irish rebels in exile, led by the nationalistic lawyer Wolfe Tone, had instigated the French expedition and hoped to create a new united Ireland in the wake of a French military victory.  However, none of these aspirations came to pass because the French expedition ended in ignominious failure, with not a single French soldier landed on Irish soil in 1796.  This book, based on lectures given at the Bantry By summer school in 1996, attempts to place the expedition in historical and local perspective.  Unfortunately, this compendium starts well and then gradually wanders far away from its subject, until it is more cultural mythology than history.  The book is certainly a disappointment for historians interested in this phase of the French Revolutionary Wars, although there are some useful nuggets of information.<br /> The French Are in the Bay consists of ten chapters, beginning with the best chapter, a 16-page summary of the expedition.  Another chapter on weather gives a great deal of factual data concerning the impact of the weather on the expedition and concludes, &quot;in terms of the influence of the weather, the Bantry Bay Expedition must rank as one of the most significant of European military history.&quot;  A third chapter covering the naval and military aspects of the expedition has some of the most useful information, particularly concerning British forces and capabilities in Ireland.  In addition, there are 12 primary source letters from a Major John Brown of the Royal Engineers, who was an eyewitness of the French activities in Bantry Bay.  Unfortunately, the remainder of the essays rapidly dwindle into irrelevance, starting with chapters on Wolfe Tone's ideology, the South Munster region in the 1790s, the development of the settlement at Bantry, Irish political ballads and folk tales about the expedition.  Unfortunately, there are no accounts from the French perspective, even though these are available.  There are 14 pages of endnotes and one sketch map of Bantry Bay but no index.<br /> The historical value of this book is very limited and it appears to be primarily intended for local consumption.  Irish nationalistic mythology creeps into this version of history at every turn, which further erodes the objectiveness of this study. While there are some useful nuggets of information contained within these pages, they are few and far between.eology, the South Munster region in the 1790s, the development of the settlement at Bantry, Irish political ballads and folk tales about the expedition.  Unfortunately, there are no accounts from the French perspective, even though these are available.  There are 14 pages of endnotes and one sketch map of Bantry Bay but no index.<br /> The historical value of this book is very limited and it appears to be primarily intended for local consumption.  Irish nationalistic mythology creeps into this version of history at every turn, which further erodes the objectiveness of this study. While there are some useful nuggets of information contained within these pages, they are few and far between.	2002-04-05
1592383:US	52533596	R3KJC7U85QE7B7	1841761974	570830420	World War I Trench Warfare (1): 1914–16 (Elite) (Pt.1)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Very Good but Limited by Size Constraints	World War 1 Trench Warfare is an excellent summary of the transformation from maneuver warfare to static operations and its associated problems in 1914-1916.  The author, Dr Stephen Bull, is a curator and military historian at the Museum of Lancashire. While this volume is almost exclusively focused on the Western Front, the author does provide a thorough survey of the main elements of his subject.  Unfortunately, the size constraints imposed by the Osprey format prevent Dr. Bull's fine effort from being more comprehensive in terms of other theaters of the war.  The Eastern Front is only slightly addressed, while the Balkan and Gallipoli fronts are virtually ignored.  The Italian army and the Italian-Austrian Front are never mentioned.  All in all, Dr Bull has provided a fine survey of trench warfare in the opening phase of the war, but his fine efforts are clearly constrained by the concise Osprey format.<br /> The volume begins with a 6-page summary of the main armies in 1914, including sections on artillery, cavalry and infantry, enlistment sources and tactics.  A 4-page section on infantry weapons in 1914 appends the section on armies.  This opening 10-page section is well written and provides a good basis for understanding the military forces available at the start of the war.  However, there are some omissions that affect the author's narrative concerning the genesis of trench warfare.  First, there is no mention of relative engineer capabilities of the opposing armies, since the author focuses only on the three primary branches.  In fact, Germany had a substantial edge in engineering capabilities, beginning with the fact that it assigned an engineer battalion to each of its divisions; British divisions had only two engineer companies and French divisions only one.  Therefore when the time came to dig in, German divisions had 50-200% more engineering capability than their opposite numbers.  A second factor relates to pre-war doctrine, which the author only addresses in terms of offensive tactics.  Again, Germany had an advantage because it had employed rudimentary trench works in pre-war maneuvers, whereas most other armies had not.  Both of these factors helped to give Germany an early edge in trench warfare.<br /> The author provides a short section on the early maneuver phase of the war in 1914, followed by a 10-page section on the first trenches.  The section on the transformation to trench warfare is decent but fails to adequately explain the reasons for this shift.  The \\"shell scandals\\" of 1914-1915 are also covered in this section on the opening days of the war.  Unfortunately, the author misses the opportunity to mention a number of issues highly germane to trench warfare, partly because of diversions on side issues like the \\"shell scandal.\\"  The author misses the two critical components that set the stage for trench warfare in the first place: machine guns with mutually supporting and interlocked fields of fire and durable obstacles.  While the author provides technical details on machineguns, he fails to note that it was the combination of the two aforementioned factors that changed the tactical equation.  Furthermore, barbed wire - one of the critical components of trench warfare - is never addressed.  The author should have addressed how it was incorporated in defenses, how it was laid and the difficulties in penetrating wire that defeated infantry assaults.  Another related factor of trench warfare is the issue of non-battle casualties, of which there were thousands in the muddy lice-infested trenches; it was the non-battle casualties that necessitated unit rotation even more than combat casualties.  The main part of this volume consists of a 19-page section on the new weapons and tactics required by the transformation to trench warfare.  In the weapons section, the author details the various grenades, mortars and bomb throwers introduced to deal with the siege conditions at the front.  In the tactics section, the author covers the use of these new weapons and ends with a interesting example of trench warfare, \\"during a period of little more than 48 hours of defensive action 2nd Lancashire Fusiliers threw 8,000 grenades, and lost 93 men killed or died of wounds, 13 men missing, and 274 wounded.  During their ten week tour of duty casualties amounted to 50 officers and 2,300 rank and file, or more than double the initial strength of the battalion.\\"<br /> The last 10 pages of this volume consist of an overview of new tactics in 1915 and the 1916 Battle of Verdun.  There is little mention of the Battle of the Somme, which presumably will be addressed in the next volume, or of changes in artillery tactics.  The section on 1915 tactics is quite good and includes the introduction of poison gas and flamethrowers.  Dr Bull succeeds in demonstrating that 1915 was not a static year of mindless trench assaults but rather, a period of experimentation and transformation as both sides sought to find solutions to the indecisiveness of trench warfare.  Hurricane bombardments, infiltration and mixed assault groups were all introduced in 1915.  Unfortunately, while the author points out that not all attacks were not futile, he fails to highlight some of the battles in 1915 - like the initially successful French assault on Vimy Ridge on May 9, 1915 - where well-prepared attacks succeeded.  Indeed, it was the lack of sufficient heavy artillery that greatly inhibited Allied offensive action in 1915.<br /> As usual in an Osprey title, the section of color plates in the center of the volume is excellent.  These plates include: French bombers in 1914-1915, British bombers in 1914-1915, British snipers in 1915-1916, a German machine gun team in 1915, British bomb catapults in 1915, mine warfare in 1916, Allied gas masks, a Russian trench garrison in 1914-1915, German trench raiders in 1916 and French mortar troops in 1916.  All of these illustrations are excellent.  The photographs and diagrams throughout the volume are also quite good.ion, the author covers the use of these new weapons and ends with a interesting example of trench warfare, \\"during a period of little more than 48 hours of defensive action 2nd Lancashire Fusiliers threw 8,000 grenades, and lost 93 men killed or died of wounds, 13 men missing, and 274 wounded.  During their ten week tour of duty casualties amounted to 50 officers and 2,300 rank and file, or more than double the initial strength of the battalion.\\" <br /> The last 10 pages of this volume consist of an overview of new tactics in 1915 and the 1916 Battle of Verdun.  There is little mention of the Battle of the Somme, which presumably will be addressed in the next volume, or of changes in artillery tactics.   The section on 1915 tactics is quite good and includes the introduction of poison gas and flamethrowers.  Dr Bull succeeds in demonstrating that 1915 was not a static year of mindless trench assaults but rather, a period of experimentation and transformation as both sides sought to find solutions to the indecisiveness of trench warfare.  Hurricane bombardments, infiltration and mixed assault groups were all introduced in 1915.  Unfortunately, while the author points out that not all attacks were not futile, he fails to highlight some of the battles in 1915 - like the initially successful French assault on Vimy Ridge on May 9, 1915 - where well-prepared attacks succeeded.  Indeed, it was the lack of sufficient heavy artillery that greatly inhibited Allied offensive action in 1915.<br /> As usual in an Osprey title, the section of color plates in the center of the volume is excellent.  These plates include: French bombers in 1914-1915, British bombers in 1914-1915, British snipers in 1915-1916, a German machine gun team in 1915, British bomb catapults in 1915, mine warfare in 1916, Allied gas masks, a Russian trench garrison in 1914-1915, German trench raiders in 1916 and French mortar troops in 1916.  All of these illustrations are excellent.  The photographs and diagrams throughout the volume are also quite good.	2002-04-05
1599010:US	52533596	R1DICXYDGF5BPP	184176342X	271135162	The First World War: The Eastern Front 1914-1918 (Essential Histories)	Books	3	27	28	N	N	An Outdated Summary by an Outdated Author	This Osprey Essential History volume, concerning the Eastern Front, has its good points and its bad points.  On the plus side, the volume is well written and provides a thorough summary for the Russian Front in the First World War, given its size limitations.  On the negative side, one need only look at the bibliography, which has only seven sources listed, none of which were written after 1971.  In the past thirty years, a great deal of new information has been uncovered about Russia in the First World War - none of which seems to have been incorporated by the author.  Readers will probably be unfamiliar with the name of Geoffrey Jukes - and they should be, since Jukes did most of his writing for the old Ballantine series back in 1968-1971 and has written nothing significant in nearly two decades.  In fact, the best part of this volume concerns the 1916 Brusilov offensive, which Jukes wrote a book about in 1971.  Jukes does have a great deal of insight into Russian history, insight which is interwoven throughout the pages of this summary, but the insight is from another era, from the 1950s and 1960s.  Furthermore, not only is much of the information outdated, but the focus is overly Russo-centric, with little attention given to German or Austrian perspectives.<br /> The First World War: The Eastern Front 1914-1918 consists of a brief introduction and seven chapters.  The first chapter provides an 8-page summary of Russian, German and Austro-Hungarian capabilities.  The war itself is covered in the second chapter, which covers the fighting in 50 pages.  The next three chapters attempt to add depth to the narrative by providing case studies on typical Russian soldiers, civilian life (mostly in Russia) and the last days of the Romanov dynasty.  The sixth chapter covers the Bolshevik seizure of power and the Russian withdrawal from the war, followed by a brief conclusion.  There are 10 maps including: Russia in 1914, the Battle of Tannenberg, the Lodz-Warsaw campaign, Galicia 1915, the Battle of Gorlice-Tarnow, the fall of Trebizon, the Brusilov offensive, the invasion of Romania, Lenin's route into Russia and the front-line in 1918.<br /> Concerning the campaign summaries themselves, readers will be disappointed by the flimsy coverage of the 1914 East Prussian and Galician campaigns in a couple of pages.  Jukes repeats an oft-quoted legend as fact about the alleged feud between the two Russian army commanders (Samsonov and Rennenkanpf) that supposedly contributed to the Russian defeat in East Prussia; readers should consult Dennis E. Showalter's 1991 Tannenberg: Clash of Empires on page 134 to see the actual facts.  While Jukes' campaign narrative does get better after this shaky start, it remains rather shallow until he approaches the 1916 Brusilov offensive, which he knows so well.  Jukes makes the interesting point that Brusilov, \\"deliberately violated the principle of concentration of force to increase his chances of surprise.\\"  The Turkish front is covered in some detail in 1915-1916, particularly joint Russian army-navy operations along the Black Sea coast, but then drops from sight.<br /> Jukes tends to harbor an antiquated view of the Russian army as poorly equipped, clumsy and incompetent.  In the discussion of the relative armies, Jukes cites Russian weakness in key weapons, \\"Machineguns were in equally short supply.  In 1914 Russia had just over 4,100 (less than one per infantry battalion)...\\"  In fact, Russia had two machineguns authorized per infantry battalion like most other European armies of 1914 and in starting the war with about 950 infantry battalions, the amount of machine-guns needed to equip the front-line infantry and cavalry units would have been about 2,000 weapons.  Jukes also mentions a \\"deficiency of 350,000 rifles at the outbreak of war..\\" which is a misstatement, since Russia started the war with adequate numbers of small arms but was unable to replace losses by early 1915.  These perceptions of ill-equipped Russian masses were not appropriate for 1914; the Russian army that started the war was equipped with solid, reliable weapons like the Mosin-Nagant rifle, Maxim machine-gun and Putilov howitzer.  Furthermore, many of the Russian officers and NCOs had recent combat experience, which the Germans lacked.  It was not lack of weapons that hindered Russian operations in 1914, but poor logistics, inadequate command and control, and an inefficient reserve system.  Jukes also misses the fact that Russian military modernization after the disastrous Russo-Japanese War was one of the cassus belli from the German point of view (see David G. Hermann's 1996 The Arming of Europe).  Jukes' figures on pre-war defense spending are way off, \\"Parsimony was the rule in Austria-Hungary's defense spending.  As late as 1911 it was less than a quarter of Germany's, and just over a quarter of Russia's.\\"  In fact, Austrian spending was 52% of Germany's and 37% of Russia's.  Jukes fails to note that Russian defense spending was greater than Germany's every year during the period 1904-1912.<br /> Jukes does make some interesting points about the disintegration of the Russian army in 1916-1917.  He cites the burden created by the Romanian entry into the war in 1916, requiring 70 Russian divisions to cover a new front in Moldavia, as draining Russia's last combat reserves.  Another key factor often overlooked is the decline of Russia's rail system - run-down by the war, bad weather and mismanagement - which led to the food shortages in the major cities that instigated the collapse of the Romanov monarchy.  Jukes also makes the point that the Tsarist regime made no effort to dispel revolutionary propaganda and relied solely on blind obedience from below; \\"STAVKA never attempted persuasion, or even telling the troops why Russia was at war...\\" In sum, readers will find this volume a useful overview but they should be wary of the lack of recent research incorporated into its text and the dated views based upon out-worn assumptions.l-equipped Russian masses were not appropriate for 1914; the Russian army that started the war was equipped with solid, reliable weapons like the Mosin-Nagant rifle, Maxim machine-gun and Putilov howitzer.  Furthermore, many of the Russian officers and NCOs had recent combat experience, which the Germans lacked.  It was not lack of weapons that hindered Russian operations in 1914, but poor logistics, inadequate command and control, and an inefficient reserve system.  Jukes also misses the fact that Russian military modernization after the disastrous Russo-Japanese War was one of the cassus belli from the German point of view (see David G. Hermann's 1996 The Arming of Europe).  Jukes' figures on pre-war defense spending are way off, \\"Parsimony was the rule in Austria-Hungary's defense spending.  As late as 1911 it was less than a quarter of Germany's, and just over a quarter of Russia's.\\"  In fact, Austrian spending was 52% of Germany's and 37% of Russia's.  Jukes fails to note that Russian defense spending was greater than Germany's every year during the period 1904-1912.<br /> Jukes does make some interesting points about the disintegration of the Russian army in 1916-1917.  He cites the burden created by the Romanian entry into the war in 1916, requiring 70 Russian divisions to cover a new front in Moldavia, as draining Russia's last combat reserves.  Another key factor often overlooked is the decline of Russia's rail system - run-down by the war, bad weather and mismanagement - which led to the food shortages in the major cities that instigated the collapse of the Romanov monarchy.  Jukes also makes the point that the Tsarist regime made no effort to dispel revolutionary propaganda and relied solely on blind obedience from below; \\"STAVKA never attempted persuasion, or even telling the troops why Russia was at war...\\" In sum, readers will find this volume a useful overview but they should be wary of the lack of recent research incorporated into its text and the dated views based upon out-worn assumptions.	2002-03-31
1601388:US	52533596	R2ETQO2SWEZ6QU	0803276133	475585324	The Lost Battalion	Books	3	34	42	N	N	The Power of Passive Resistance	The Lost Battalion was originally written in 1938 and has been re-issued with minor editing in 2000.  For those readers seeking a companion volume to the 2000 A&E film by the same title, this book is more than a bit disappointing.  However, the lost battalion is an interesting journalistic account of the seven companies of the American 77th Infantry Division who found themselves cut off behind German lines for six days during the Meuse-Argonne Offensive in the First World War.  About 550 US soldiers under the command of Major Charles Whittlesey were trapped in a small river valley under constant German fire.  As the authors point out, the unit was neither a single battalion nor was it ever \\"lost,\\" merely isolated.  By the time that Whittlesey's command was finally relieved, the unit had suffered 65% casualties.  Whittlesey himself was awarded the Medal of Honor for his stubborn defense.  Yet the main lesson of this tale of combat heroism is that, \\"the human capacity for endurance, for mere passive defense, exceeds all belief and possibility as long as there be a leader to say, don't give up, we're not licked yet.\\"<br /> The book is divided into chapters that cover each day from 2-8 October 1918, with events arranged chronologically.  Edward M. Coffin, a modern-day historian at the University of Wisconsin who arranged for the work to be re-printed, provides a short effortless forward.  There are several photographs and a few totally inadequate maps that supplement the text, but only weakly.  Unfortunately, Mr. Coffman made little effort to update or augment the original narrative and while the story flows smoothly, a lazy and jingoistic style might annoy after awhile.  The authors are comfortable with using non-words like \\"ploying,\\" or \\"funk-hole\\" [i.e. foxhole] and attacks that \\"corkscrew (the soldiers twirl around while advancing?).<br /> Readers expect a hero may be perplexed by Major Whittlesey.  Initially, the Harvard-educated lawyer seems comparable to Joshua Chamberlain, the soldier-scholar who won the Medal of Honor at Little Round Top in 1863.  Certainly this book paints Whittlesey as a man devoted to duty, who was the only battalion commander to reach his objective and then refused to be budged off by repeated German counterattacks.  While Whittlesey demonstrated determination and obstinacy, his actual command abilities are less certain because there were few decisions for him to make after his initial un-opposed occupation of the objective.  Thereafter, Whittlesey's role became rather passive - encouraging resistance and vigilance - but not making any critical decisions.  Furthermore, Whittlesey's post-war suicide three years later compared poorly with Chamberlain who went on to live a long, productive post-war life.  The author's allude to Whittlesey's post-war guilt, particularly sentiments he expressed that his unit's sacrifices served no useful purpose.  If this was so, then why did Whittlesey not retreat before the German ring closed around his unit?  Having been ordered not to give up ground without direct orders from the division commander, Whittlesey was content to await rescue, but he demonstrated little initiative or imagination.  Certainly Whittlesey 's actions merited a Medal of Honor, but the accusations that the price of two virtually destroyed battalions was hardly worth the moral victory that was achieved bears consideration.  Apparently Whittlesey himself doubted the value of this sacrifice.  Given the inability of Whittlesey to live with the decisions he made and the losses his unit suffered, it is also possible that Whittlesey was fundamentally un-suited to making the kind of life-or-death decisions required of a combat leader.  While some of these questions are addressed in the book, the reader should recognize that important questions about combat ethics and psychology have been given short-shrift in the interest of story-telling.<br /> Certainly one of the most interesting aspects of the book isthe perspective provided from the German side.  The authors were able to obtain interviews with many of the Germans who fought against the Lost Battalion and their side of the story indicates that desperation was not unique to Whittlesey's intrepid band of doughboys.  In fact, the German front was beginning to crumble and they never had sufficient reserves to crush Whittlesey.  Indeed, while German attacks were constant, the worst damage to the Lost Battalion was done by friendly artillery fire and hunger.  One odd omission in this account is that the author's fail to mention that Corporal Alvin C. York of the 82nd Division won his Medal of Honor in the attempt to relieve the Lost Battalion.<br /> Modern readers should also recognize the subtle anti-military bias, common to America in the 1930s, which pervades these pages.  The authors want to honor these men as heroes, but not as soldiers.  In trying to put the Lost Battalion incident in perspective, the author's conclude, \\"that the men of the 77th Division lacked not for courage, intelligence, patriotism or any other fundamental quality, but simply that they were poorly trained and insufficiently experienced.  Seen from this angle the ultimate responsibility rests on the Washington authorities who sent such soldiers to a major war, and the lesson is that democracies should not engage in mass wars, for when they seek a universal competence they tend to lose democracy.\\"  This pro-isolationist hogwash asserts that despite the heroism of soldiers such as Whittlesey, military effort and preparedness fundamentally threatens and debases democracy.  In fact, the lesson of Whittlesey and Alvin C York should be that democracies can produce soldiers every bit as good as totalitarian states, but without the need for militarized cultures.  Unfortunately, America's enemies also failed to note our ability to produce heroes such as Whittlesey and York and instead perceived the United States as soft and unwilling to sacrifice.  Three years after the Lost Battalion was published, the Axis powers demonstrated what happens to democracies that eschew military preparedness.is the perspective provided from the German side.  The authors were able to obtain interviews with many of the Germans who fought against the Lost Battalion and their side of the story indicates that desperation was not unique to Whittlesey's intrepid band of doughboys.  In fact, the German front was beginning to crumble and they never had sufficient reserves to crush Whittlesey.  Indeed, while German attacks were constant, the worst damage to the Lost Battalion was done by friendly artillery fire and hunger.  One odd omission in this account is that the author's fail to mention that Corporal Alvin C. York of the 82nd Division won his Medal of Honor in the attempt to relieve the Lost Battalion.  <br /> Modern readers should also recognize the subtle anti-military bias, common to America in the 1930s, which pervades these pages.  The authors want to honor these men as heroes, but not as soldiers.  In trying to put the Lost Battalion incident in perspective, the author's conclude, \\"that the men of the 77th Division lacked not for courage, intelligence, patriotism or any other fundamental quality, but simply that they were poorly trained and insufficiently experienced.  Seen from this angle the ultimate responsibility rests on the Washington authorities who sent such soldiers to a major war, and the lesson is that democracies should not engage in mass wars, for when they seek a universal competence they tend to lose democracy.\\"  This pro-isolationist hogwash asserts that despite the heroism of soldiers such as Whittlesey, military effort and preparedness fundamentally threatens and debases democracy.  In fact, the lesson of Whittlesey and Alvin C York should be that democracies can produce soldiers every bit as good as totalitarian states, but without the need for militarized cultures.  Unfortunately, America's enemies also failed to note our ability to produce heroes such as Whittlesey and York and instead perceived the United States as soft and unwilling to sacrifice.  Three years after the Lost Battalion was published, the Axis powers demonstrated what happens to democracies that eschew military preparedness.	2002-03-29
1605456:US	52533596	R25E79RG3HWILY	1557501513	983571971	D-Day: Piercing the Atlantic Wall	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	Was German Victory Really Possible on D-Day?	Why write (or read) another book on the 1944 Normandy invasion?  On reason is that author Robert J. Kershaw is an excellent military historian who offers fresh insights, foremost of which is his assertion that books such as \\"The Longest Day\\" are too narrowly focused to evaluate the success of Operation Overlord.  Instead, Kershaw's book is, \\"concerned with the nine days it took for the Allies to dominate the foreshore upon which they landed.  It attempts to detect that moment when the Germans thought in terms of containing the spread of the accepted bridgehead, not in throwing the Allies back into the sea.  This was the culminating and deciding point of D-Day, when it could be judged a success.\\"  In Kershaw's calculus, the battle could have gone either way.  Additionally, Kershaw offers a soldier's account of the invasion that is far more brutal and descriptive than many civilian-produced narratives.  For the most part, Kershaw succeeds in presenting fresh perspectives and analysis on D-Day, but his conclusions are suspect.<br /> D-Day: Piercing the Atlantic Wall consists of 17 chapters and three appendices.  The page breakdown consists of 25% on preparations for D-Day, 60% on events on D-Day, 10% concerning events after D-Day and 5% on conclusions.  This organization seems at odds with the author's stated intent to cover the nine-day battle to establish a viable bridgehead, since only one chapter is devoted to events after D-Day and even that chapter only covers the period 7-9 June.  This may be the result of severe editing, but it is surely a departure from the book's stated purpose.  Nevertheless, the text is superbly supported by many excellent photographs, diagrams and military-friendly maps.<br /> Kershaw provides a wealth of information on the German situation from diary and archival sources.  For example, I was unaware of the size or extent of the counterattack by the 6th Fallschirmj&auml;ger Regiment against the Utah Beach landing on the evening of D-Day, since this is not even mentioned in most other accounts.  The exact dispositions of the German coastal defense units covering the invasion beaches - often vague in other accounts - are spelled out in great detail here.  However, readers should note that units that lack survivors who wrote diaries or letters are under-represented in this account.  The German 91st Luftlande Division for example, is barely mentioned in this account despite its key role in the fighting around St M&egrave;re Eglise.<br /> On the Allied side, Kershaw provides some interesting accounts but there is much less depth or detail.  It is odd than not only are most Allied corps and division commanders ignored, but even well-known D-Day heroes such as Brigadier General Cota and Colonel Taylor - who helped to motivate the breakout from Omaha Beach - do not appear once in these pages.  Despite the author's claim to examine the nine-day battle, there is no mention of any Allied follow-on divisions that landed during this period.  The one chapter that covers the fighting after D-Day virtually ignores the link-up of the various Allied beaches and fails to note the \\"almost\\" British 7th Armored Division breakthrough at Villers-Bocage on 13 June.  Yet while Kershaw's book lacks detail on the Allied side, it does help to dispel some of the myth of German tactical superiority in the Second World War.  Kershaw notes,\\" on 6 June the German defenses lacked edge. Although subsequent fighting in Normandy was to demonstrate a keener capability, it was not there during the battle of D-Day.\\" In particular, the lackluster performance of the 21st Panzer Division, the closest armor reserve to the beaches, should serve as a warning to unbridled generalizations about German combat superiority.  Despite early warnings of Allied landings nearby, the 21st Panzer spent most of D-Day going nowhere, constantly switching missions and dividing its forces into small packets, until finally just before dark mounting a half-heartedcounterattack that failed.<br /> Kershaw's conclusions that on D-Day German commanders missed the narrow opportunity when victory was possible is highly suspect.  He writes, \\"not only did the German army choose not to commit its prime resources to crush the invasion when it was achievable, it continued to fight the following battle with its logistic arm quite literally tied behind its back.\\"  While Kershaw does a good job dispelling the myth that Hitler personally held back reinforcements at the critical moment, he ascribes far too much potential to the German 15th Army in the Pas-de-Calais.  While asserting that the 15th Army - which was initially held out of the D-Day fighting in anticipation of other Allied landings - could have intervened quickly and decisively to tip the battle in Germany's favor, he fails to note that this army was composed mostly of unmotorized infantry units that were slow to reposition.  Nor could German logistics be significantly upgraded in Normandy once the invasion began.  While the Germans might have moved more men and equipment into the D-Day battle quicker than occurred historically, Kershaw avoids the issue of how these additional forces could have \\"won\\" the battle.  In fact, the Germans had no answer to deal with Allied air superiority or naval gunfire and they could not mount serious, large-scale counterattacks under these conditions.  Furthermore, there was only one German mobile division - the 21st Panzer - that was available to launch an immediate counterattack before the coastal defenses collapsed and this division could only have been used effectively against one of the eight Allied invasion divisions.  Even under the best conditions, assuming that 21st Panzer moved rapidly to crush the British 6th Airborne, the Germans could only achieve tactical victories.  Any German response would still have left seven Allied divisions in Normandy by D+1.  Thus, while both sides could have improved their performances, the possibilities for German strategic victory in Normandy disappeared once the invasion began.rattack that failed.<br /> Kershaw's conclusions that on D-Day German commanders missed the narrow opportunity when victory was possible is highly suspect.  He writes, \\"not only did the German army choose not to commit its prime resources to crush the invasion when it was achievable, it continued to fight the following battle with its logistic arm quite literally tied behind its back.\\"  While Kershaw does a good job dispelling the myth that Hitler personally held back reinforcements at the critical moment, he ascribes far too much potential to the German 15th Army in the Pas-de-Calais.  While asserting that the 15th Army - which was initially held out of the D-Day fighting in anticipation of other Allied landings - could have intervened quickly and decisively to tip the battle in Germany's favor, he fails to note that this army was composed mostly of unmotorized infantry units that were slow to reposition.  Nor could German logistics be significantly upgraded in Normandy once the invasion began.  While the Germans might have moved more men and equipment into the D-Day battle quicker than occurred historically, Kershaw avoids the issue of how these additional forces could have \\"won\\" the battle.  In fact, the Germans had no answer to deal with Allied air superiority or naval gunfire and they could not mount serious, large-scale counterattacks under these conditions.  Furthermore, there was only one German mobile division - the 21st Panzer - that was available to launch an immediate counterattack before the coastal defenses collapsed and this division could only have been used effectively against one of the eight Allied invasion divisions.  Even under the best conditions, assuming that 21st Panzer moved rapidly to crush the British 6th Airborne, the Germans could only achieve tactical victories.  Any German response would still have left seven Allied divisions in Normandy by D+1.  Thus, while both sides could have improved their performances, the possibilities for German strategic victory in Normandy disappeared once the invasion began.	2002-03-26
1616336:US	52533596	R268JV8C4WAP0N	1580970591	651967767	Sword Beach: Normandy (Battleground Europe)	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Too Many Missions	Sword Beach is easily the best of the Battleground Europe series on the 1944 Normandy landings, even better than the same author's previous volume on Omaha Beach.  This volume meticulously details the landings of the British 3rd Infantry Division and 27th Armored Brigade on the easternmost sector of the Allied invasion of France on D-Day.  Tim Kilvert-Jones, a Sandhurst graduate and retired officer, uses all his professional acumen to deliver a fresh and incisive account that sheds much new light on one of the most neglected aspects of D-Day.  Sword Beach is written with military students uppermost in mind and it provides far more narrative depth and insight than the standard Battleground Europe \\"tour guide\\" approach, although the volume is well written for staff rides.  Since Field Marshall Montgomery had planned to take the city of Caen on the first day of the invasion, the British troops landing at Sword have often been accused of sluggish advancement inland toward Caen.  In fact, Tim Kilvert-Jones aptly describes, the 3rd Division was tasked with too many competing missions and thus, could not fulfill all of them.<br /> Sword Beach consists of seven chapters, beginning with two chapters that paint the strategic picture from both the German and Allied perspectives.  The 24 pages of the third chapter discuss the Overlord Assault Plan for Sword Beach and Caen in great detail, including German defenses in the Sword sector, the 3rd Division assault plan, an excellent summary of each brigades' assigned tasks and composition and an aerial photograph of the invasion beach.  The author is to be greatly applauded for including this sort of detail - which may seem tedious to some civilian readers - because proper historical evaluation requires knowledge of what was planned versus what occurred.  The fourth chapter covers the assault landings in forty pages and includes several more excellent aerial photographs of German defensive positions and a 1:50,000 scale map that depicts the operational movements of the 3rd Division on D-Day.  The fifth chapter is also excellent and covers the eight-hour struggle for the Hillman position and the German armored counterattack on Periers Ridge.  The fifth chapter covers the consolidation of the bridgehead between June 7-17, 1944 but without the same level of detail as in previous chapters.  The final chapter is rather weak and consists primarily of a strategic re-cap of the D-Day landings.  A complete order of battle for the British combat units that landed on Sword is provided in an appendix.<br /> Normally, the landings on Sword don't get much coverage in other D-Day narratives and for that reason alone, Sword Beach is well worth having.  The author even includes unique information, such as the role of the British 3rd Division's artillery on D-Day.  Unlike most British divisions which used towed 25-pounder howitzers, the 3rd Division had acquired three battalions of US-made 105mm M7 \\"Priests\\" for the landing, and trained to fire from landing craft.  During the assault, the British artillery was firing battalion volleys while embarked on landing craft and heading in to the beach.  Probably not very accurate, but probably the only occasion in history that a Divisional artillery group fired while moving onto to the objective.  Unlike the Americans, who landed a great deal of infantry in the first waves, the British landed only four companies of infantry on Sword Beach in the first two waves.  Instead, the British relied on combat multipliers to aid the initial assault and landed a great deal of amphibious tanks, armored engineer vehicles and even frogmen.  The landing was not a cakewalk - which some glib American accounts suggest - since the South Lancashire Battalion suffered heavy casualties before the German \\"Cod\\" position was overrun.  Overall, the British landing was a well-rehearsed, well-executed operation that rapidly overcame a prepared defense.<br /> Unfortunately, the British difficulties began with the problem in getting masses of men and vehicles through the handful of narrow breaches through the beach obstacle belt.  The congestion was terrible for several hours and ruined any attempt to adhere to the planned schedule.  After clearing the beach defenses, the 3rd Division had four primary missions: to link-up with the British 6th Airborne troops at Pegasus bridge, to send a reinforced brigade to seize Caen, to secure the western flank against counterattack and to eliminate the remaining German strong points in sector.  Unfortunately, this was just too many missions for even a reinforced division and with the advance inland falling rapidly behind schedule, the division and corps commanders had to make choices.  Priority was given to link-up with the airborne and securing the western flank, both missions which were achieved on D-Day; Lord Lovat's commando brigade reached Pegasus Bridge six hours after H-Hour and in the west, an efficient British anti-tank screen defeated the 21st Panzer Division's hasty counterattack and destroyed 16 German tanks.  Third priority was given to eliminating German strong points, which while successful, was time consuming.  The German position known as \\"Hillman,\\" which had about 150 troops inside, held up the bulk of a British brigade for eight hours in a long-drawn out fight.  British infantry seemed incapable of simply bypassing resistance nests and thus, the British also succeeded in this mission but at great cost in terms of time and resources spent.  The fourth mission, to seize Caen, was a failure.  Few resources were left after all the other missions were allotted forces and only a company was left to probe toward Caen.  This one company reached the city outskirts but prudently turned back once the extent of German forces in the area became apparent.  Something had to give, and it was Caen.  Tim Kilvert-Jones makes a very good case that while other commanders or units might have advanced more rapidly that day, that the 3rd Division commander made the right choice that day.  Sword Beach vividly demonstrates the tough nature of command in combat, where leaders must choose between allocating resources against competing tasks.lties began with the problem in getting masses of men and vehicles through the handful of narrow breaches through the beach obstacle belt.  The congestion was terrible for several hours and ruined any attempt to adhere to the planned schedule.  After clearing the beach defenses, the 3rd Division had four primary missions: to link-up with the British 6th Airborne troops at Pegasus bridge, to send a reinforced brigade to seize Caen, to secure the western flank against counterattack and to eliminate the remaining German strong points in sector.    Unfortunately, this was just too many missions for even a reinforced division and with the advance inland falling rapidly behind schedule, the division and corps commanders had to make choices.  Priority was given to link-up with the airborne and securing the western flank, both missions which were achieved on D-Day; Lord Lovat's commando brigade reached Pegasus Bridge six hours after H-Hour and in the west, an efficient British anti-tank screen defeated the 21st Panzer Division's hasty counterattack and destroyed 16 German tanks.  Third priority was given to eliminating German strong points, which while successful, was time consuming.  The German position known as \\"Hillman,\\" which had about 150 troops inside, held up the bulk of a British brigade for eight hours in a long-drawn out fight.  British infantry seemed incapable of simply bypassing resistance nests and thus, the British also succeeded in this mission but at great cost in terms of time and resources spent.  The fourth mission, to seize Caen, was a failure.  Few resources were left after all the other missions were allotted forces and only a company was left to probe toward Caen.  This one company reached the city outskirts but prudently turned back once the extent of German forces in the area became apparent.  Something had to give, and it was Caen.  Tim Kilvert-Jones makes a very good case that while other commanders or units might have advanced more rapidly thatday, that the 3rd Division commander made the right choice that day.  Sword Beach vividly demonstrates the tough nature of command in combat, where leaders must choose between allocating resources against competing tasks.	2002-03-17
1617004:US	52533596	R2CG69M7GWWU3Z	0750927674	38202367	The Bravest Man	Books	5	84	86	N	N	The Human Side of the Undersea War	The title of The Bravest Man refers to Richard O'Kane, the most successful American submarine commander in the Second World War.  While this book focuses on O'Kane's wartime career on the submarines USS Wahoo and USS Tang, it also examines the careers and exploits of other successful American submarine commanders in the Pacific War.  A reader might wonder why another book on O'Kane's career is necessary, given the availability of O'Kane's own book, Clear the Bridge in 1977, as well as Clay Blair's Silent Victory and Theodore Roscoe's US Submarine Operations in World War II.  The justification for a new book on O'Kane is provided both by the style and the manner in which the author chooses to deliver this story.  Unlike other accounts, which tend to be rather meticulous but dry, the author succeeds in painting a wartime sea saga on a vivid canvas, with the protagonist contending not only against the enemy, but the sea itself, an interfering shore-based naval bureaucracy and even defective torpedoes.  In these pages, O'Kane and his peers appear as human beings, not just ciphers in a tonnage-sunk chart.<br /> O'Kane started his rise to prominence in the submarine community while serving as executive officer under the legendary \\"Mush\\" Morton in the USS Wahoo in 1943.  Morton was one of the first sub skippers to break with the over-cautious, unimaginative pre-war US submarine doctrine and embrace a more freewheeling and aggressive combat style.  Tenacity was Morton's trademark, and O'Kane later adopted this mindset when he was given his own command on USS Tang.  The author effectively demonstrates the deadly efficiency of the Morton - O'Kane combat team on Wahoo; the real weapon system was the well-trained and aggressive crew, not the submarine itself.  After O'Kane left Wahoo for his own command on Tang, Morton's efficiency declined and he began to take more chances.  In October 1943, Wahoo was lost off Japan and O'Kane's mentor was gone.  However, in five patrols on USS Tang in 1944, O'Kane more than avenged the loss of Morton by sinking 27 Japanese vessels.  The author details how O'Kane was innovative as well as brave, introducing efficient tactics for recovering downed US pilots at sea and daring shallow-water attack tactics.  At the conclusion of his fifth patrol in October 1944, Tang was sunk off Formosa by one of its own torpedoes.  O'Kane and eight of his crewmen were the only survivors and spent ten months in Japanese captivity.  The final patrol of Tang is probably the best part of this book and the author details the sinking and incredible underwater escape of several crewmen in riveting detail.  The brutal details of O'Kane's interrogation and captivity, which are usually not provided in other accounts, are revealed here.  Interestingly, the Marine fighter pilot \\"Pappy\\" Boyington was in the same POW camp as O'Kane.<br /> This account also addresses the torpedo malfunctions, command problems and doctrinal deficiencies that plagued the US submarine force in the first eighteen months of the Pacific War.  It still seems incredible that the US Ordnance Bureau ignored repeated evidence of torpedo malfunctions for so long, and the bureaucratic obtuseness that blocked technical improvements now appears almost criminal.  A divided command structure, based partly in Australia and partly in Hawaii, also degraded US combat performance.  US pre-war submarine doctrine, which focused on reconnaissance for the fleet rather than independent anti-commerce warfare, was another impediment to a successful submarine campaign.  However, all the technical and bureaucratic hurdles had been overcome by 1944, which is when the US submarine force achieved its greatest results.<br /> While focusing on O'Kane, the author also examines the exploits of other top US submarine commanders in this period.  These men, mostly US Naval Academy graduates, are followed at sea and ashore to give a complete picture of the special type of independent leaders that were required for this most demanding form of warfare.  Unlike their surface counterparts, the US submarine skippers usually fought alone and deep inside the Japanese Empire.  The author notes that fully 30% of submarine commanders were relieved in 1942 and 15% in 1943.  Even good skippers suffered \\"burn-out\\" from continuous combat patrols.  Furthermore, more than 20% of US submariners were lost in action, which was the highest loss rate for any combat arm.  However the leaders and crews that emerged from this crucible of war, like O'Kane, Morton and Ned Beach, were top-notch.  While this book offers little new in terms of operational details about submarine operations in the Pacific, it adds a vital human dimension that is often ignored in more standard accounts.rs that were required for this most demanding form of warfare.  Unlike their surface counterparts, the US submarine skippers usually fought alone and deep inside the Japanese Empire.  The author notes that fully 30% of submarine commanders were relieved in 1942 and 15% in 1943.  Even good skippers suffered \\"burn-out\\" from continuous combat patrols.  Furthermore, more than 20% of US submariners were lost in action, which was the highest loss rate for any combat arm.  However the leaders and crews that emerged from this crucible of war, like O'Kane, Morton and Ned Beach, were top-notch.  While this book offers little new in terms of operational details about submarine operations in the Pacific, it adds a vital human dimension that is often ignored in more standard accounts.	2002-03-17
1618823:US	52533596	R2ROQ5J4BCLIPM	0850527368	29640970	Utah Beach : Normandy (Battleground Europe Series)	Books	3	9	9	N	Y	Decent but not Great	This installment of the Battleground Europe series focuses on the US VII Corps landings on Utah Beach and the 82nd/101st Airborne Divisions landings around St Mere Eglise  on D-Day.  For those unfamiliar with this series, this book is part of a series that dissects the D-Day landings into one book on each of the main US and British beaches.  While Utah Beach is fairly good and well written, it follows fairly closely in the footsteps of early works on D-Day, such as Cornelius Ryan's The Longest Day and John Keegan's Six Armies in Normandy.  Compared to other Battleground Europe titles or even Carl Shilleto's other volumes in the series, Utah Beach lacks depth.<br />  Utah Beach consists of six chapters, beginning with a chapter on Allied forces and planning.  The second chapter is quite interesting, concerning the disaster at Slapton Sands prior to D-Day.  One interesting footnote to history that the author does provide is that Lieutenant General Bradley, the First Army commander, was unaware of the huge loss of American lives in the disaster and summarily relieved the engineer brigade commander when the exercise fell behind schedule.  The third chapter covers Allied objectives and German defenses and herein begins one of the problems with the book: over-focus on the airborne landings and objectives.  While the tactical objectives for each parachute infantry regiment is spelled out in detail, the objectives of the sea-landing forces for the first day are left rather vague.  What were the D-Day objectives for each of the regiments in the 4th Infantry Division?  The fourth and fifth chapters cover the airborne and sea borne landings in 70 pages.  A final chapter covers a tour of the memorials and cemeteries in the area.  There are also seven appendices, including ones covering Allied and German orders of battle and casualties.<br />  Unfortunately, the book tends to focus too heavily on the airborne landings at the expense of the rest of the VII Corps landings - the main event.  Furthermore, the author tends to follow all-too-familiar ruts, like the story of Private John Steele landing on the bell tower of the church in St Mere Eglise; this is interesting and dramatic, but not particularly important in the big scheme of things.  A more important incident, like the fact that US paratroopers killed Major General Falley, commander of the German 91st Luftlande Division on 6 June 1944, is not even mentioned in this account.  In fact, the information on the German forces near the US landings is rather sparse.  Units such as the 100th Tank Battalion and the 6th Parachute Regiment are shown near the landings, but virtually ignored in the text.  The 6th Parachute Regiment in particular was a major antagonist of the US airborne troops for many days after D-Day.  When the author does cover the VII Corps landings, it does add some detail on the vital role of the engineer units but tends to focus too heavily on the role of Brigadier General Roosevelt.  Equally important leaders, such as Colonel Van Fleet of the 8th Infantry or Major General Collins (the corps commander) are ignored.  Finally, the bulk of the text focuses only on the first 18 hours or so of D-Day, with little or no discussion of events even the day after D-day.  Compared to the other Battleground Europe titles on D-Day beaches, this is a bit narrow.<br />  This book is still recommended for a number of reasons.  The photographs and several of the maps are excellent.  The details on the disaster at Slapton Sands, which often gets little mention in other sources, is discussed in detail here.  Finally, the book covers all the major points - if not necessarily some of the finer points - of the US landings in the Cotentin Peninsula on D-day and provides and excellent summary for those interested in touring the Norman battlefields.landings - the main event.  Furthermore, the author tends to follow all-too-familiar ruts, like the story of Private John Steele landing on the bell tower of the church in St Mere Eglise; this is interesting and dramatic, but not particularly important in the big scheme of things.  A more important incident, like the fact that US paratroopers killed Major General Falley, commander of the German 91st Luftlande Division on 6 June 1944, is not even mentioned in this account.  In fact, the information on the German forces near the US landings is rather sparse.  Units such as the 100th Tank Battalion and the 6th Parachute Regiment are shown near the landings, but virtually ignored in the text.  The 6th Parachute Regiment in particular was a major antagonist of the US airborne troops for many days after D-Day.  When the author does cover the VII Corps landings, it does add some detail on the vital role of the engineer units but tends to focus too heavily on the role of Brigadier General Roosevelt.  Equally important leaders, such as Colonel Van Fleet of the 8th Infantry or Major General Collins (the corps commander) are ignored.  Finally, the bulk of the text focuses only on the first 18 hours or so of D-Day, with little or no discussion of events even the day after D-day.  Compared to the other Battleground Europe titles on D-Day beaches, this is a bit narrow.<br />      This book is still recommended for a number of reasons.  The photographs and several of the maps are excellent.  The details on the disaster at Slapton Sands, which often gets little mention in other sources, is discussed in detail here.  Finally, the book covers all the major points - if not necessarily some of the finer points - of the US landings in the Cotentin Peninsula on D-day and provides and excellent summary for those interested in touring the Norman battlefields.	2002-03-15
1621923:US	52533596	RPDSQFFR8ZF9Z	1841762334	240374666	Kalka River 1223: Genghiz Khan's Mongols invade Russia (Campaign)	Books	3	31	32	N	Y	Military Archaeology, Not History	Since there are so few books on the Mongol campaigns, even mediocre ones such as Kalka River 1223 should be appreciated.  To be fair, Dr. David Nicolle, author of many Osprey titles on Medieval Warfare, has done his usual thorough research into a subject of great interest to himself and produced a sturdy synthesis.  Unfortunately, Dr. Nicolle's talents lie in the realm of military archaeology, not military history, which somewhat reduces the value of this volume to military readers.<br /> Kalka River 1223 begins with a rather lengthy 7-page section on origins of the campaign and a chronology.  An interesting two-page color map depicting the Eurasian steppes' climatic zones is also provided in the introductory section.  The sections on opposing commanders and armies are rather lengthy compared to other Osprey titles - a full 31 pages or one-third of the entire volume.  While the section on Mongol and Russian leaders is quite good, the section on armies will only appeal to medieval armor and weapon enthusiasts.  Alas, Dr. Nicolle is so enthralled with detailing seemingly every aspect of Russian and Mongol equipment that he leaves virtually no space to discuss military organization, tactics, doctrine or training.  Instead, he does make some generalized comments about tactics in the following section on opposing plans, which...does not discuss opposing plans.  While it is fairly obvious that the Russians sought to defeat or deter invasion and the Mongol incursion was a reconnaissance in force, surely more could have been said about objectives and strategic goals.  There are a total of five 2-D maps in Kalka 1223 (Eurasian Steppes, Mongol campaigns in 1220-2, the Russian armies assemble in 1223, Movements to the Kalka River and the Mongol Withdrawal) and three 3-D \\"Bird's Eye View\\" maps of the Battle of Kalka River.  Probably the best aspect of this volume is the artwork, which is a radical departure in quality and quantity from the standard Osprey format; instead of three battle scenes, there are 10 excellent illustrations (Mongol troops, Russian cavalry, Polovtsian troops, the capture of Gemyabek, Russian troops on the march, the Mongol commanders, the Mongol charge at Kalka River, the attack on the Kievan camp, the escape of Prince Mstislavic and the Mongol victory feast) by a Russian artist.  These illustrations help to enliven an otherwise plodding text.<br /> The actual account of the Battle of Kalka River is a bit hazy due to the paucity of sources - the exact location of the battle is not even known - and Dr. Nicolle covers it in less than 6 pages of text.  Dr. Nicolle concludes that, \\"in this first clash between Mongols and Russians, Genghiz Khan's warriors had encountered an opponent who was strong militarily but who lacked the Mongols' mobility.  The Russians had also shown themselves to be extraordinarily disorganized.\\"  However, the rest of the account does not support the conclusion that the Russians were defeated due to inferior tactical mobility.  At the outset of the campaign, the Russians joined forces with the Turkic steppe people known as the Polovtsians who also were threatened by Mongol aggression.  Dr. Nicolle points out that the Polovtsians had light and heavy cavalry that was equal in mobility to the Mongol cavalry and in the advance to the Kalka River, the Allied covering force three times defeated Mongol cavalry rearguards.  Furthermore, the Allies were defeated by the shock effect of a sudden charge of Mongol heavy cavalry that crumpled the Polovtsian advance guard and spread panic throughout the Russian army.  The Russians were hit at the worst moment, with the three main corps split by a river-crossing operation.  Yet while ¾ of the Russian army disintegrated, it is interesting that the remaining Kievan army was able to circle its wagons and survive for three days against the entire Mongol army.  The Kievans eventually surrendered when their water was exhausted, but the episode demonstrates that the Mongols had difficulty in defeating steady troops.  While Nicolle correctly identifies Russian disorganization as a contributory factor, lack of unity of command and poor command control combined with poor morale were probably the main reasons for the defeat, not fancy Mongol maneuvers.  Russian command and control was a joke, and due to the requirement to negotiate military plans long in advance between the various princes, the Russian army lacked flexibility or adaptability.  In addition, only about 20% of the troops were trained and well-equipped soldiers, with the other 80% representing the usual un-trained peasant militia cannon fodder. When this poorly commanded and polyglot force came under sudden, severe attack most of it shattered like a rack of billiards hit by a cue ball.  Russian morale was probably also undermined by operating so far from friendly territory, in the relatively unknown steppes.  Nevertheless, Nicolle's narrative makes it appear that the Russian defeat was inevitable which is less than certain.  Had this army been deployed behind the Dniepr River and allowed to fight a set-piece battle, it would have done better.  Certainly the Mongol defeat shortly after Kalka River at the hands of the Volga Bulgars demonstrates that the Mongols were not invincible.ngols had difficulty in defeating steady troops.  While Nicolle correctly identifies Russian disorganization as a contributory factor, lack of unity of command and poor command control combined with poor morale were probably the main reasons for the defeat, not fancy Mongol maneuvers.  Russian command and control was a joke, and due to the requirement to negotiate military plans long in advance between the various princes, the Russian army lacked flexibility or adaptability.  In addition, only about 20% of the troops were trained and well-equipped soldiers, with the other 80% representing the usual un-trained peasant militia cannon fodder. When this poorly commanded and polyglot force came under sudden, severe attack most of it shattered like a rack of billiards hit by a cue ball.  Russian morale was probably also undermined by operating so far from friendly territory, in the relatively unknown steppes.  Nevertheless, Nicolle's narrative makes it appear that the Russian defeat was inevitable which is less than certain.  Had this army been deployed behind the Dniepr River and allowed to fight a set-piece battle, it would have done better.  Certainly the Mongol defeat shortly after Kalka River at the hands of the Volga Bulgars demonstrates that the Mongols were not invincible.	2002-03-13
1622407:US	52533596	R1WQGHBS7QSH	184176230X	999361616	Second Manassas 1862: Robert E Lee’s greatest victory (Campaign)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A Solid Campaign Overview	Second Manassas might have been Robert E. Lee's Greatest Victory as author John Langellier asserts, but it is often neglected in Civil War history as \\"the other\\" battle fought at Bull Run rather than as a seminal event.  This addition to the Osprey Campaign series is a solid overview of the campaign of Lee versus Pope in the summer of 1862 in north-central Virginia.  In accordance with the standard Osprey format, the book begins with a short section on the origins of the campaign and a campaign chronology.<br />  In a welcome departure from the short-shrift methods of other recent Osprey campaign titles, Dr. Langellier actually puts some meat on the bone concerning opposing commanders.  A full 9 excellent pages are spent discussing Generals Pope, Halleck, Banks, McDowell, Sigel, Lee, Longstreet, and Jackson.  The section on opposing plans is a bit short at two pages, but adequate.  Likewise, the section on opposing armies is somewhat brief at three pages, but covers aspects specific to the campaign, like Duryee's Zouaves and the Iron Brigade.  The campaign narrative begins with two short chapters on the preliminary actions at Cedar Mountain and Brawner's Farm.  The actual Battle of Second Manassas is covered in 25 pages, followed by a short postscript and notes on the battlefield today.  An excellent order of battle is provided for both armies in the final appendix.  There are five 2-D maps (Virginia in July 1862, the Battle of Cedar Mountain, the road to Second Manassas, the Battle of Groveton, and Lee's flanking movement to Chantilly) and three 3-D \\"Bird's Eye View\\" maps of the Battle of Second Manassas.  Three battle scenes depict the truce at Cedar Mountain, the Iron Brigade at Brawner's Farm and the stand of Starke's Louisiana brigade at the Railroad cut.  The photographs are decent - particularly if one likes portraits of civil war generals and scenes of torn-up railroads - but rather bland, given the level of civil war illustrations and artwork available.<br />  Dr. Langellier's campaign narrative is solid and hits all the main points.  Certainly, the inept performance of Union General John Pope was clearly the proximate cause of the Federal defeat at Second Manassas.  There is no attempt at analysis in this account, although certainly not necessary from the command angle.  In terms of the principles of war, the Confederates enjoyed the virtues of the offensive, maneuver, security and surprise, while the Union leaders seemed content to ignore the threat until too late.  However, a bit more analysis on the role of supporting units, particularly artillery, would have been helpful.  Overall, Second Manassas provides a decent overview of this often-neglected campaign.able.  <br />         Dr. Langellier's campaign narrative is solid and hits all the main points.  Certainly, the inept performance of Union General John Pope was clearly the proximate cause of the Federal defeat at Second Manassas.  There is no attempt at analysis in this account, although certainly not necessary from the command angle.  In terms of the principles of war, the Confederates enjoyed the virtues of the offensive, maneuver, security and surprise, while the Union leaders seemed content to ignore the threat until too late.  However, a bit more analysis on the role of supporting units, particularly artillery, would have been helpful.  Overall, Second Manassas provides a decent overview of this often-neglected campaign.	2002-03-12
1625368:US	52533596	R15XSGJ80D9NS5	184176311X	732793582	Fuentes de Oñoro 1811: Wellington’s liberation of Portugal (Campaign)	Books	3	16	20	N	N	An Unsatisfying Account	Although Ren&eacute; Chartrand has produced many fine volumes of military history for the Osprey Campaign series, he appears to be in a slump lately.  His latest volume, Fuentes de Onoro 1811, picks up where his last volume Bussaco 1810 left off.  Like Bussaco, Fuentes de Onoro is well-researched and well-written but essentially unsatisfying.  Part of the fault might be attributed to the subject, which is one of the most dreary and futile campaigns of the Napoleonic Wars - it's hard to imagine anyone writing a gripping account about a poorly-led, half-starved French army stumbling through the mountains of Portugal and returning to Spain with its tail between its legs.  However part of the fault also appears to lie in the rather slap-dash manner in which this account was written, particularly compared to Chartrand's earlier works on the French and Indian Wars.<br /> Fuentes de Onoro begins in standard Osprey format with a section sketching the origins of the campaign, the opposing plans and a chronology.  The section on opposing leaders is far too brief and covers only French corps commanders and senior leaders like Picton and Crauford.  Critical French commanders like Montbrun, Mermet, Marchand, Solignac and Ferrey and the British division commanders Spencer and Houston receive virtually no mention.  Louis Montbrun, one of Napoleon's best cavalry leaders, deserves more than the single sentence he receives in this account.  In particular, Chartrand should have mentioned that Montbrun led the amazing charge at Somosierra in 1808 and had served with distinction in the 1809 campaign in Austria.  Information on Spencer, commander of the 1st Division at Fuentes de Onoro, might have been helpful; Spencer was a poor choice to command a critical position on the battlefield.  Finally, the portrait of Massena presented here does not do justice to this once great marshal of France.  Massena was an old 53 at Fuentes de Onoro while Wellington was 42.  Three years before Fuentes de Onoro, Massena lost an eye in a hunting accident when he was accidentally shot by Napoleon (who blamed Berthier), and then fought despite injuries in the slug-fests at Aspern-Essling and Wagram in 1809.  Chartrand might have been a bit more sympathetic; Massena needed a rest in 1810-1811, not a mission impossible with inadequate forces.<br /> The section on opposing armies, all 4 ½ pages of it, is totally inadequate.  On the other hand, the order of battle provided in the appendix is excellent, with unit strengths provided for all units down to regimental-level.  There are five 2-D maps (the Peninsula in 1810, troop movements in November 1810-March 1811, Massena's retreat, armies in the Peninsula in June 1811) and three 3-D \\"Birds-eye View\\" maps (the attack of Ferey's Division on 3 May 1811, and two maps of the main battle on 5 May 1811).  Three excellent battle scenes are provided: an artillery position in the Lines of Torres Vedras, the charge of Montbrun's cavalry at Fuentes de Onoro and the British counterattack in Fuentes de Onoro).  Chartrand provides bibliographical data, including archival sources in Portugal.<br /> The first 37 pages of the campaign narrative cover the Anglo-Portuguese construction of the Lines of Torres Vedras protecting Lisbon, and the French inability to penetrate these defenses.  The success of the Lines of Torres Vedras should stand as a shining example for those armchair military strategists who espouse the \\"futility of fixed defenses\\" theory.  Unfortunately, Chartrand provides very little information on Allied dispositions on the lines or the French probe at Sobral.  Only one hard-to-read period map of the lines is provided, instead of a user-friendly modern 2-D map.  Plenty of modern pictures of Portuguese scenery is provided but these do not allow a reader to appreciate the strength of these positions.  Another aspect revealed in this section is the total failure of French intelligence concerning not only the lines but the terrain in Portugal, which impeded the French invasion.<br /> The actual battle of Fuentes de Onoro is covered in the last 28 pages.  The fact that the French were able to surprise Wellington and crush his right flank with well-coordinated infantry and cavalry attacks, driving the British back 3 miles, is given less credit than Wellington's effort to refuse his crumpled flank divisions in order to form a new front.  The French pushed back the British in a 2-1 odds attack using columns against lines but that doesn't seem to rate any analysis.  There are many questions here but few answers.  Why was French artillery so weak in this battle - which should have been addressed in the opposing armies section.  Why were the French infantry divisions of Loison's corps unable to continue the attack against Wellington's refused flank?  Why was Marshal Bessieres out of command control of his brigade of imperial cavalry at a critical moment in the battle?  Why had the British not fortified and barricaded Fuentes de Onoro after the initial French attack on that town two days before the main battle?<br /> The author concludes that Fuentes de Onoro was a British victory since the French threat to Portugal was removed but an incomplete victory, since the Army of Portugal slipped away.  Fuentes de Onoro is a difficult battle to evaluate.  The French threat to Portugal ended before the battle because Massena had no answer to the Torres Vedras lines, so it is misleading to attribute strategic results to a battle that was close to a tactical draw.  On the battlefield itself, the French failed to relieve the siege of Alameida or to cripple Wellington's army - which was Massena's immediate objectives - or even to seize Fuentes de Onoro.  On the other hand, by turning and attacking, Massena did help restore morale in a French army that had only seen retreat and frustration for months.  The ability of the French to mass cavalry and infantry columns probably impressed Wellington enough that the French were still dangerous opponents and view as a spoiling attack, Fuentes de Onoro probably helped to delay Wellington's invasion of Spain until 1812.in in Portugal, which impeded the French invasion.  <br /> The actual battle of Fuentes de Onoro is covered in the last 28 pages.  The fact that the French were able to surprise Wellington and crush his right flank with well-coordinated infantry and cavalry attacks, driving the British back 3 miles, is given less credit than Wellington's effort to refuse his crumpled flank divisions in order to form a new front.  The French pushed back the British in a 2-1 odds attack using columns against lines but that doesn't seem to rate any analysis.  There are many questions here but few answers.  Why was French artillery so weak in this battle - which should have been addressed in the opposing armies section.  Why were the French infantry divisions of Loison's corps unable to continue the attack against Wellington's refused flank?  Why was Marshal Bessieres out of command control of his brigade of imperial cavalry at a critical moment in the battle?  Why had the British not fortified and barricaded Fuentes de Onoro after the initial French attack on that town two days before the main battle?  <br /> The author concludes that Fuentes de Onoro was a British victory since the French threat to Portugal was removed but an incomplete victory, since the Army of Portugal slipped away.  Fuentes de Onoro is a difficult battle to evaluate.  The French threat to Portugal ended before the battle because Massena had no answer to the Torres Vedras lines, so it is misleading to attribute strategic results to a battle that was close to a tactical draw.  On the battlefield itself, the French failed to relieve the siege of Alameida or to cripple Wellington's army - which was Massena's immediate objectives - or even to seize Fuentes de Onoro.  On the other hand, by turning and attacking, Massena did help restore morale in a French army that had only seen retreat and frustration for months.  The ability of the French to mass cavalry and infantry columns probably impressed Wellington enough that the French were still dangerous opponents and view as a spoiling attack, Fuentes de Onoro probably helped to delay Wellington's invasion of Spain until 1812.	2002-03-10
1626430:US	52533596	R3EEA7NKLJQIGA	0253133335	477824367	Eisenhower's Lieutenants: The Campaign of France and Germany, 1944-1945	Books	4	30	36	N	N	A Narrow Margin of Victory?	Russell F. Weigley, a military historian at Temple University, used Freeman's classic Lee's Lieutenants as an inspirational model for his effort to produce a one-volume account of the Allied campaign in northwest Europe in 1944-1945. While Allied forces are addressed the main focus of this book concerns American strategy, doctrine and operations.  Weigley's hypothesis is that American war-fighting doctrine called for a war of annihilation against enemy armies by means of a \\"power-thrust\\" with massed armies and material, but that the actual conduct of the campaign deviated from this doctrine.  Furthermore, due to mistakes made in the War Department, Eisenhower was forced to fight with inadequate means and according to Weigley, the US had mobilized \\"just enough resources to win by a narrow margin.\\"<br /> Weigley's main hypothesis about the US \\"power-thrust\\" doctrine is similar to the modern-day Powell doctrine of massive force.  Based upon study of the US Civil War and the First World War, American war planners envisioned overwhelming and destroying enemy armies by massive and sustained application of combat power.  Unfortunately, Weigley concludes that this theory was undermined in reality by the coalition strategy and inadequate US military mobilization.  The British, who were initially the senior partner in the alliance, preferred to avoid costly head-on battles against the main German armies in favor of indirect approach through the peripheries, like Italy and the Balkans.  Yet even once the British acquiesced to an invasion of France, the lack of adequate forces inhibited the Allied campaign.  Weigley states, that \\"the basic trouble was that the Anglo-American alliance had not given Eisenhower enough troops to carry it [Allied strategy] out safely,\\" and the \\"mobilizing [of] a ninety-division army for the Second World War was not an altogether impressive performance for a superpower.\\"  Lack sufficient infantry replacements and a galling shortage of artillery ammunition in the Fall of 1944 greatly weakened the US armies at a critical point in the campaign.  Lacking sufficient divisions, Eisenhower was unable to either mass his forces for a breakthrough or assemble a strategic reserve to deal with unexpected contingencies.  When the Germans struck in the Ardennes in December 1944, the Americans were forced to throw in partly trained units and precious airborne infantry to stop tanks, exposing the 90-division army as a risky gamble.<br /> Weigley's argument about inadequate resources bears serious consideration, but the argument is incomplete.  While it is a fact that Eisenhower lacked an adequate number of divisions in late 1944, the reasons were due more to lack of strategic priorities rather than poor mobilization policies in Washington DC.  Although President Roosevelt had called for a \\"Germany First\\" strategy - and the British concurred - the Allied chiefs of staff had violated this preference by not ruthlessly trimming secondary and tertiary theatres.  While Eisenhower was scrambling to come up with adequate troops in the Fall/Winter of 1944, there were 6 US divisions in Italy and 26 in the Pacific.  The British were even worse, committing only 12 commonwealth divisions to northwest Europe but leaving 5 divisions in Italy and several more in Burma.  Slim's 14th Army in Burma was allowed to waste 18,000 high-quality infantrymen in the fruitless \\"Chindit\\" operations.  If the Chiefs of Staff had adhered to the \\"Germany First\\" strategy, they would have ordered a defensive posture with residual forces in Italy and Burma and scaled back offensive operations in the Pacific.  Thus the problem was not inadequate resources, but failure to reign in competing strategies and practice economy of force.<br /> A positive feature of this work is the light it sheds on the virtually-forgotten operational-level US commanders of the Second World War, corps commanders such as Corlett, Haislip, Eddy and Middleton.  Other than Bradley and Patton, most US wartime commanders tend to appear as ciphers, if at all.  Despite the title, this book unfortunately misses the opportunity to present a study in command that would profile the US operational-level commanders.  One issue that is apparent is the poor selection methods used to choose senior American commanders; George C. Marshall's famous list was a ridiculous method for a major power to select its combat leaders.  Only Patton and Van Fleet of the 23 senior US combat commanders in northwest Europe had been wounded in action and many such as Bradley and Devers, had missed the First World War altogether.  Patch, who lacked any combat experience, was chosen to command the 7th Army over the much-experienced Collins because Patch was a favorite of Marshall's.  On the other hand, Marshall's whimsy excluded Van Fleet from senior command for most of the war, but Van Fleet went on to become a very successful combat leader in Europe and Korea.<br /> Weigley also tends to nurture the shibboleth about German combat superiority by stating that, \\"the German army remained qualitatively superior to the American army, formation for formation\\" for most of the campaign in northwest Europe.  While there were painful episodes in the bocage and the Huertgen Forrest of German forces inflicting heavy losses on US units, the argument of German tactical superiority does not square with the facts.  In September 1944, the much-maligned US armor units were able to smash four German panzer brigades in two weeks in essentially even-odds combat.  In December 1944, the thinly-spread and badly-bruised 28th Division was able to delay superior German armored forces in the early stages of the Battle of the Bulge.  While the Germans were certainly better than the Americans at quickly rebuilding units from odds and ends, German tactical superiority was at best confined to the elite panzer units by 1944.  Furthermore, American troops demonstrated improved tactical ability by late 1944, having learned many lessons in the previous six months.  Weigley's conclusion that, \\"in the end, it was its preponderance of material resources that carried its army through to victory in World War II,\\" is out of synch with his \\"army of emptiness\\" and \\"inadequate force\\" arguments., most US wartime commanders tend to appear as ciphers, if at all.  Despite the title, this book unfortunately misses the opportunity to present a study in command that would profile the US operational-level commanders.  One issue that is apparent is the poor selection methods used to choose senior American commanders; George C. Marshall's famous list was a ridiculous method for a major power to select its combat leaders.  Only Patton and Van Fleet of the 23 senior US combat commanders in northwest Europe had been wounded in action and many such as Bradley and Devers, had missed the First World War altogether.  Patch, who lacked any combat experience, was chosen to command the 7th Army over the much-experienced Collins because Patch was a favorite of Marshall's.  On the other hand, Marshall's whimsy excluded Van Fleet from senior command for most of the war, but Van Fleet went on to become a very successful combat leader in Europe and Korea.<br /> Weigley also tends to nurture the shibboleth about German combat superiority by stating that, \\"the German army remained qualitatively superior to the American army, formation for formation\\" for most of the campaign in northwest Europe.  While there were painful episodes in the bocage and the Huertgen Forrest of German forces inflicting heavy losses on US units, the argument of German tactical superiority does not square with the facts.  In September 1944, the much-maligned US armor units were able to smash four German panzer brigades in two weeks in essentially even-odds combat.  In December 1944, the thinly-spread and badly-bruised 28th Division was able to delay superior German armored forces in the early stages of the Battle of the Bulge.  While the Germans were certainly better than the Americans at quickly rebuilding units from odds and ends, German tactical superiority was at best confined to the elite panzer units by 1944.  Furthermore, American troops demonstrated improved tactical ability by late 1944, having learned many lessons in the previous six months.  Weigley's conclusion that, \\"in the end, it was its preponderance of material resources that carried its army through to victory in World War II,\\" is out of synch with his \\"army of emptiness\\" and \\"inadequate force\\" arguments.	2002-03-09
1652071:US	52533596	R1SN8IQFC2W5WO	1841763039	392514875	The Russian Army 1914–18 (Men-at-Arms)	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	A Quick Look at the Tsarist Army	This Osprey Men-at-Arms title makes an attempt to fill the long-neglected gap in First World War history covering the Tsarist Army.  While many books evoke the image of a huge faceless Russian steamroller, few provide much details on exactly what this army looked like.  This title makes modest progress in that regard and as such, deserves a place on the bookshelf of anyone interested in the First World War.<br /> The Russian Army begins with an introduction covering Russia's strategic position and a chronology of the major events on the Eastern Front in 1914-1918.  A 4 ½ page section covers the organization of the army, particularly infantry, cavalry, Cossack and artillery units.  An interesting 3-page section covers elite units such as the Guards Corps, the St. George's Battalions, the \\"Death\\" Battalions and the \\"Savage\\" Division.  A brief section also discusses non-Russian units.  A rather dull 7-page section then covers uniforms and personal equipment.  Tactics and weapons are discussed in the last 7 pages.  As usual, the eight pages of color plates in the center of this thin volume are excellent.  The same cannot be said for the photographs, which are rather bland posed shots.<br /> Overall, this volume is decent but not great.  There are nuggets of useful information, such as the belated Russian effort to form a heavy artillery corps - known by the Russian acronym TAON - in 1917.  Since massed artillery was a Soviet specialty in the Second World War, it is interesting to see antecedents in the Tsarist army.  The fact that the paucity of infantry training facilities caused the Tsarist army to station reserve battalions in the major urban areas like St Petersburg and that these under-utilized conscripts provided the fodder for Revolution in 1917 is also interesting.  However, the sections on doctrine and tactics are far too short even for a volume this size (the chronology would have been a good place to make cuts).  There is no real effort to address the pre-war doctrine and the author should have consulted Bruce W. Menning's excellent Bayonets before Bullets: the Imperial Russian Army, 1861-1914.  The impact of the disastrous defeat in the 1904-1905 Russo-Japanese War and the impetus for post-war reform is almost totally ignored.  Once the war began, the author ignores the enforced doctrinal shift from maneuver warfare to positional warfare; how did the Russian army adapt to trench warfare?  Nor are the big campaigns discussed much, except for the successful Brusilov offensive.  Instead, the reader is presented with a fairly vapid account of the Tsarist army that scarcely touches upon the impact of early disasters like Tannenberg or the gradual rot from revolutionary ideology.  Nor is there even an order of battle provided for any phase of the war or mention of casualties.  One might think that the fact that Tsarist Russia mobilized about 12 million men and that 1.7 million died in the war would be far more interesting to readers than giving virtually useless information on cavalry breeches stripes or tunic piping and lace.  The author introduces interesting information on the organization of the Guards units for example, and then says very little else about them.  Certainly the biggest sin of this volume is its failure to address the disintegration of the Tsarist army in 1917, except in passing.  Since this volume is a stand-alone coverage of the subject, unlike others in the Men-at-Arms series, these omissions will not be rectified in other following volumes.war doctrine and the author should have consulted Bruce W. Menning's excellent Bayonets before Bullets: the Imperial Russian Army, 1861-1914.  The impact of the disastrous defeat in the 1904-1905 Russo-Japanese War and the impetus for post-war reform is almost totally ignored.  Once the war began, the author ignores the enforced doctrinal shift from maneuver warfare to positional warfare; how did the Russian army adapt to trench warfare?  Nor are the big campaigns discussed much, except for the successful Brusilov offensive.  Instead, the reader is presented with a fairly vapid account of the Tsarist army that scarcely touches upon the impact of early disasters like Tannenberg or the gradual rot from revolutionary ideology.  Nor is there even an order of battle provided for any phase of the war or mention of casualties.  One might think that the fact that Tsarist Russia mobilized about 12 million men and that 1.7 million died in the war would be far more interesting to readers than giving virtually useless information on cavalry breeches stripes or tunic piping and lace.  The author introduces interesting information on the organization of the Guards units for example, and then says very little else about them.  Certainly the biggest sin of this volume is its failure to address the disintegration of the Tsarist army in 1917, except in passing.   Since this volume is a stand-alone coverage of the subject, unlike others in the Men-at-Arms series, these omissions will not be rectified in other following volumes.	2002-02-16
1652414:US	52533596	R1V5WZXQWKP3JE	1841763535	588866528	Japanese Army 1931-45 (Volume 1, 1931-42)	Books	2	32	40	N	N	Almost No Information on Tactics or Doctrine	Volume 1 of Osprey's Men-at-Arms title on the Japanese Army in Second World War is the first of two thin volumes that will cover this often-neglected subject.  While the color uniform plates are excellent as always, the rest of the volume is rather bland and without much unique detail.  For readers interested in Japanese uniforms of the Second World War, this volume is quite good but for the military historian, it is a disappointment.<br /> The volume begins with a brief background on the Japanese strategic situation and the nature of Japanese soldiers.  An excellent 4-page section covers the organization of Japanese army units from army-level down to platoon.  Unfortunately, six pages are then wasted in a generalized chronology that astounds the reader with facts like Pearl Harbor was bombed on December 7, 1941.  Osprey seems not to grasp the fact that anyone having enough interest in the Japanese army in the Second World War to purchase this volume will probably be aware of the basic chronology of the war and prefer the limited space to concentrate on the subject.  Another 11 excruciatingly dull pages are spent discussing the finer points of Japanese army uniforms and ancillary items, including minutiae like armbands and optional footwear.  Only three quick pages cover all weaponry, from pistols to artillery; tanks are ignored.  There is virtually no discussion of Japanese tactics or doctrine, except for one or two paragraphs intermixed in the chronology section, and this is an unpardonable error in this kind of volume.  The fact that the author buries the reader under a mass of near-useless information about various types of Japanese field jackets and then neglects to mention how these troops were trained or fought is ludicrous. Perhaps the second volume in this series will make amends, but that appears doubtful.<br /> On the plus side, the author does provide some order of battle data on the Japanese army in China and in December 1941, as well as sidebars on Japanese military terminology.  While the author does discuss the three different types of Japanese infantry division, there is little information on independent brigades or unique qualities of any specific units.  Japanese corps and army level organization is ignored, as well as the relationship with Japanese army aviation.  Issues like soldier psychology, training, officer selection, military intelligence and logistic support are skimmed over or ignored altogether.  This volume is certainly colorful and the subject interesting, but it does not deliver much.Japanese military terminology.  While the author does discuss the three different types of Japanese infantry division, there is little information on independent brigades or unique qualities of any specific units.  Japanese corps and army level organization is ignored, as well as the relationship with Japanese army aviation.   Issues like soldier psychology, training, officer selection, military intelligence and logistic support are skimmed over or ignored altogether.  This volume is certainly colorful and the subject interesting, but it does not deliver much.	2002-02-16
1654483:US	52533596	R8YH0TCURGRL6	158097015X	85202062	Normandy : Omaha Beach (Battleground Europe)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good Military Analysis and Synthesis	Writing a tour guide and historical synopsis of the US landing at Omaha Beach on 6 June 1944 is a daunting task, but one well executed by Sandhurst graduate Tim Kilvert-Jones in this Battleground Europe volume.  Like other volumes in this series on the D-Day landings, Omaha Beach only focuses on the actions that occurred on and around that particular landing site.  Overall, Omaha Beach is an excellent summary of the US V Corps landings on D-Day, as well as a decent tour-guide of the contemporary battlefield.<br /> Omaha Beach consists of seven chapters, beginning with a strategic overview and a full chapter on the Overlord plan relating to Omaha and Pointe du Hoc.  The third chapter covers the loading and sea passage.  The three main chapters cover the Ranger assault at Pointe du Hoc, the 29th Division landing and the 1st Division landing.  An epilogue chapter covers events following D-Day, primarily the Allied logistical build-up on Omaha.  There are also six appendices but no order of battle for either side.  As usual in Battleground Europe titles, numerous excellent photographs complement the text, but the maps are not as good in this volume as in other volumes in the series.<br /> While Kilvert-Jones does utilize and synthesize information from other accounts, such as Joseph Balkoski's excellent Beyond the Beachhead and Robert J Kershaw's D-Day Piercing the Atlantic Wall, he offers value-added material in terms of his expertise as a retired regular army officer.  This book is designed as a professional learning tool for young officers on a staff ride of the Normandy battlefields - a tool I wish that I had as a captain when I made such a staff ride in 1989 - and as such, it offers many useful insights for those who wish to study the art of war as related to Omaha Beach.  The author effectively addresses the mission, the enemy, the troops available, the weather and the operational time line.<br /> There are two areas where the author does come up short in his military analysis, in my opinion.  First, is the issue of terrain.  While the author correctly identifies the draws leading off the beach as key terrain he fails to complete the equation.  The fact is that both the Germans and Americans had identified the draws as key terrain and acted upon it, is one of the key reasons for the heavy casualties on Omaha.  The Germans could only man the defenses on Omaha with a reinforced battalion at any one time, and they chose to concentrate their defenses on resistance nests covering each of the four draws.  Only a few snipers and obstacles were left to cover the area between draws, and this area comprised dead space to the heavy weapons sited in most of the resistance nests.  Thus, the main German engagement areas were in front of the draws, which is precisely where the Americans landed.  The Americans headed strait for the draws because they optimistically assumed that the preliminary air and naval bombardment would smash the resistance nests and obstacles, allowing the landing troops to move rapidly off the beach through these defiles.  Thanks to Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan, many Americans are now convinced that all of Omaha Beach was a slaughterhouse.  Not true.  As Kilvert-Jones notes, some troops landing inadvertently in the dead space between the draws and they were able to reach the bluffs virtually unscathed.  The failure of the Americans to appreciate the significance of dead space (since virtually all the German bunkers were identified before the landing) on Omaha Beach was as serious defect in terrain analysis as their failure to anticipate the defensive value of bocage.  Had the US troops landed between the draws, hundreds of lives would have been saved.<br /> The second issue that Kilvert-Jones skirts around is that of senior American generalship and planning.  There is no doubt that the troops in the 1st and 29th Divisions were well-served by the superior combat leadership of men like BGN Cota and COL Taylor on D-Day, but these were not the men who planned the landings on Omaha.  Rather, the inferior leadership and lack of imagination of General Bradley and General Eisenhower are the issue.  Whenever one studies Overlord, it is difficult not to be impressed by the incredible logistic planning that went into moving thousands of troops across the sea, as well as technical marvels like PLUTO and MULBERRY and the incredibly successful deception plan.  On the strategic level, Overlord was a masterpiece.  Yet at the tactical level, particularly at Omaha, Overlord seems to have been planned by men who ignored every lesson of the last thirty years.  Bradley rejected British offers of armored \\"funnies\\" from the 79th Armored that were far superior at obstacle removal under fire than dismounted engineers - who suffered 41% casualties on Omaha.  Nor would Bradley consider using Underwater Demolition Teams or amphibious tractors as used in Pacific invasions.  Bradley never really thought about how troops could cross 300-400 meters of open sand under fire from interlocking machinegun nests - a basic lesson learned from the First World War.  The fire support plan for Omaha ignored the use of smoke, which would have greatly reduced the accuracy of German fire.  Although often described as an excellent tactician, Bradley clearly was not.  Indeed, the divisional leaders in the 1st and 29th Divisions questioned the landing plan, but were over-ruled by Bradley who didn't want a plan complicated by gadgets or fancy tactics.  Kilvert-Jones mentions the irony of Bradley considering a withdrawal as his troops were actually getting off the beach and Eisenhower was planning a mass air strike to demonstrate how out-of-touch these \\"leaders\\" were.  After the battle, Eisenhower blamed the \\"intelligence failure\\" in detecting the German 352nd Division at Omaha as the primary reason for the heavy casualties.  In fact, the American GIs triumphed at Omaha in spite of, not because of, their senior leadership.or on D-Day, but these were not the men who planned the landings on Omaha.  Rather, the inferior leadership and lack of imagination of General Bradley and General Eisenhower are the issue.  Whenever one studies Overlord, it is difficult not to be impressed by the incredible logistic planning that went into moving thousands of troops across the sea, as well as technical marvels like PLUTO and MULBERRY and the incredibly successful deception plan.  On the strategic level, Overlord was a masterpiece.  Yet at the tactical level, particularly at Omaha, Overlord seems to have been planned by men who ignored every lesson of the last thirty years.  Bradley rejected British offers of armored \\"funnies\\" from the 79th Armored that were far superior at obstacle removal under fire than dismounted engineers - who suffered 41% casualties on Omaha.  Nor would Bradley consider using Underwater Demolition Teams or amphibious tractors as used in Pacific invasions.  Bradley never really thought about how troops could cross 300-400 meters of open sand under fire from interlocking machinegun nests - a basic lesson learned from the First World War.  The fire support plan for Omaha ignored the use of smoke, which would have greatly reduced the accuracy of German fire.  Although often described as an excellent tactician, Bradley clearly was not.  Indeed, the divisional leaders in the 1st and 29th Divisions questioned the landing plan, but were over-ruled by Bradley who didn't want a plan complicated by gadgets or fancy tactics.   Kilvert-Jones mentions the irony of Bradley considering a withdrawal as his troops were actually getting off the beach and Eisenhower was planning a mass air strike to demonstrate how out-of-touch these \\"leaders\\" were.  After the battle, Eisenhower blamed the \\"intelligence failure\\" in detecting the German 352nd Division at Omaha as the primary reason for the heavy casualties.  In fact, the American GIs triumphed at Omaha in spite of, not because of, their senior leadership.	2002-02-14
1657616:US	52533596	RD13V49ROA5FA	0582056292	160174565	The Wars of Louis XIV, 1667-1714	Books	4	36	39	N	Y	War-as-process	Since the wars of Louis XIV have not been covered comprehensively in English, this volume by a renowned historian is particularly welcome.  In this work, John Lynn combines a succinct, but thorough blow-by-blow narrative account of the wars fought by Louis XIV with a cogent historical analysis that places these conflicts in their proper perspective.  Lynn's main hypothesis differs from some other historians who view Louis XIV as a would-be European conqueror intent on endless wars of conquest.  Rather, Lynn regards Louis' wars as essentially defensive after achieving limited territorial gains in Holland after 1675.  Lynn explains these conflicts as wars-as-process that rather than seeking to annihilate enemy armies or achieve decisive victories, sought lesser objectives like extorting taxes from occupied lands, deciding dynastic issues or achieving defensible borders for France.  Inevitably Louis XIV sought short wars against isolated opponents, but the indecisive nature of 18th Century conflict led to protracted, attritional struggles against coalitions.<br /> The Wars of Louis XIV consists of eight chapters, beginning with a background chapter on European conflict in 1495-1661.  Two other excellent opening chapters cover French strategic concepts in this period as well as the strength and methods of the French army and navy.  The next two chapters cover the relatively painless War of Devolution and the Dutch War, which were fought to achieve martial Gloire  for Louis after he came to the throne.  At relatively low cost, Louis added to his territory and seemed to confirm the use of violence as a useful tool of statecraft.  The fifth chapter covers violence and state policy, specifically the so-called \\"reunions\\" which were coercive annexations of adjacent territory similar to Hitler's \\"Anschluss\\" with Austria, and violent suppression of the Protestant minority in France.  The sixth and seventh chapters - which comprise nearly half the book - cover the fateful Nine Years War and the War of the Spanish Succession.  Although France did well militarily in the first conflict, it was financially exhausting to fight protracted attritional struggles against coalitions.  In the last war, fought for dynastic reasons, the French did fairly well until Marlborough showed up in 1704.  Marlborough changed the slow operational tempo - typically one big siege attempted per season - and sought to fight big battles.  He smashed the French at Blenheim and Ramillies, and succeeded in rolling back most of Louis' gains over the past 20 years.  Nevertheless, Louis outlasted his enemies and eventually managed to achieve a favorable peace.  The final chapter consists of an analysis of all of Louis' wars and attempts to place them in proper historical perspective.<br /> Overall, this work is excellent - it is well-written, well-researched and provides fresh insight into a long-neglected subject.  Students of Napoleonic warfare would be well-advised to read this book as background on the development of French doctrine (particularly a preference for fortifications) and strategy in pre-Revolutionary France.  The chapters that cover the wars are sub-divided into sections on each year, which are cover the different fronts sequentially.  The only flaw is this volume is the lack of decent maps; many important towns mentioned in the text are not depicted in the simple sketch maps nor are the movement of armies depicted.  Nor is there a map of the Spanish theater of war, which was particularly important in the last two wars.  It is particularly difficult to follow gains and losses of towns in the main battle front of Flanders, and the author should have provided at least a summary map to depict major territorial changes in each war.  Readers should keep a good atlas handy in order to follow the campaigns.<br /> Although France was able to achieve some strategic gains in these wars of Louis XIV, the main military legacy of the Sun King was near financial bankruptcy.  John Lynn concludes, \\"for fifty years, French armies had been strong enough to stand against coalitions of all the other great powers.  But the treaties of Utrecht, Rastatt, and Baden marked a watershed in international relations.  No longer could France maintain its former dominance.  This reality reflected not only the relative decline of France, but the increased power of other European states.\\"ankruptcy.  John Lynn concludes, \\"for fifty years, French armies had been strong enough to stand against coalitions of all the other great powers.  But the treaties of Utrecht, Rastatt, and Baden marked a watershed in international relations.  No longer could France maintain its former dominance.  This reality reflected not only the relative decline of France, but the increased power of other European states.\\"	2002-02-12
1674549:US	52533596	R3U75FBIY8N2IP	0750925442	603395184	Hitler's Atlantic Wall	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Good Technical Survey	Hitler's Atlantic Wall is an excellent overview of the design, construction and defense of the German fortifications along the French coast in 1940-1944.  The Atlantic Wall was intended to reduce German military weakness in the West and thereby deter or impede an Allied invasion.  The book consists of nine chapters, including detailed sections on the design and building of the wall, the labor force and a very detailed section covering all the major batteries.  Numerous excellent photographs and sketches of bunker designs supplement the text.  There are two excellent appendices, which list all the different types of bunkers and all the major coastal batteries in France.  Note that this book is for the specialist, primarily for military historians interested in greater detail on the Atlantic Wall or persons planning to visit D-Day sites in France, not for readers interested in a general historical perspective.  There are only two weaknesses in the book, the most serious being a lack of any maps.  The other weakness is that the book only discusses the Atlantic Wall in France, but does not discuss German coastal fortifications in Belgium, Holland or Norway.<br />  There are a number of interesting statistics in this book.  Construction on the Atlantic Wall began in late 1942 and by the summer of 1944, 11,500 bunkers of various sizes had been built at a cost of about $1.5 billion.  About 5% of Germany's steel production went into the project.  About 250,000 workers - mostly forced labor - were used in the project, but only 15,000 were German.  The Todt Organization, a semi-independent agency under the Ministry of Armaments, built most of the wall and the German army, navy and air force had little control over the construction efforts.  Indeed, the entire project was a tangle of bureaucratic and organizational in-fighting, since the wall was mostly designed by the three services, built by Todt, out-fitted by other organizations and finally manned by the services.  There was little standardization in construction and over 43% of everything built was non-standard.<br />  While the author's technical analysis is excellent, his conclusions are more contentious.  He states, \\"to have built so much in so short a time along such a distance of coastline was indeed astonishing,..[but] it was built by slave labor.. [and] the truth is that it was ill-conceived.\\"  Noting the wall's failure, he states, \\"it took two years to build and two hours to breach.  And once breached, the rest of it largely became redundant.\\"  Actually, the Germans never intended that the wall would defeat the invasion in itself, only that it would buy time for mobile reserves to move up and counterattack.  There is little doubt that the resistance nests on Omaha Beach on 6 June 1944 brought the US landings to a virtual halt for several vital hours and the failure of the German armor to respond quickly was not the fault of the fortress troops but rather, Hitler, Rommel and von Runstedt.  Also, the author's assertion that the wall tied up large amounts of German manpower in static defense and was a waste of resources is incorrect.  The German army in France had been stripped to the bone because of the needs of the Russian Front, and there was no choice but to use fortifications as a combat multiplier.  The argument that fixed defenses are a waste of time and resources could only be made by someone who has never been under air attack or artillery bombardment; the Germans knew that they were going to have to face an invasion someday.  Had the Germans built more panzer divisions with that steel, as the author argues, most of those tanks would have gone to the Russian Front and the second rate divisions in France would have been fully exposed.  Without the Atlantic Wall - imperfect though it might be - the Allied invasion probably would have achieved all it's D-Day objectives and then some.  Furthermore, the delay and heavy casualties caused when the Allies began clearing the fortified ports had a larger effect on Allied strategy than the author suggests.  The troops left behind in the ports were mostly low quality, but they tied down Allied troops and required an inordinate amount of firepower to eliminate.  The author's contention that the wall was instigated by Hitler's \\"bunker mentality\\" is rather a cheap shot as well, since any military man would have recommended improving coastal defenses.  The fact is that Germany was a resource-poor nation and it had to use reinforced concrete and slave labor in a desperate effort to keep retribution at bay.ing the fortified ports had a larger effect on Allied strategy than the author suggests.  The troops left behind in the ports were mostly low quality, but they tied down Allied troops and required an inordinate amount of firepower to eliminate.  The author's contention that the wall was instigated by Hitler's \\"bunker mentality\\" is rather a cheap shot as well, since any military man would have recommended improving coastal defenses.  The fact is that Germany was a resource-poor nation and it had to use reinforced concrete and slave labor in a desperate effort to keep retribution at bay.	2002-01-29
1677259:US	52533596	R2RNK6ITQOJOSQ	0809088541	518265730	Strange Victory: Hitler's Conquest of France	Books	2	71	101	N	N	Intellectually Dishonest	In Strange Victory, Harvard professor Ernest R. May delivers a revisionist hypothesis about the German conquest of France in May 1940: the French were not doomed to defeat and the result could have gone the other way.  May argues that incredible luck and faulty Allied intelligence were two of the main ingredients of this \\"strange victory\\" of the weaker over the stronger.  Actually, May presents two related counter-factual hypotheses: first, that if France had launched a serious offensive in September 1939 that Nazi Germany might have \\"imploded\\" and second, that with better intelligence the French would have expected the panzer thrust through the Ardennes Forrest and moved to block it.  While May has put a great deal of research into building his hypotheses, it is camouflage for a fundamentally dishonest intellectual approach.  In order for a hypothesis to be credible, it should be tested against alternative evidence, but May eschews this methodology.  In short, May only provides information that supports his hypotheses, but ignores information that does not.<br />  The hypothesis that France could have launched an offensive to reach the Ruhr in September 1939 and thereby end the war at the outset is attractive but fanciful.  France entered the war without an offensive doctrine or plan.  When the French did attempt minor probes in the Saar on 7-11 September, they were stopped dead by the German introduction of deadly anti-personnel mines - which May fails to mention.  Even if the French had possessed more offensive spirit in 1939, the odds were distinctly against success.  The French armored divisions (DCRs) did not yet exist and the bulk of any offensive would rely on traditional infantry divisions, supported by a few motorized and cavalry units.  May suggests that it would have been easy for the French to reach the Ruhr after only a few days of fighting against second-rate German Landwehr units.  He fails to mention that it was 230 kilometers to the Ruhr and that the Rhine River would have to be crossed first - no small matter.  The French 3rd and 4th Armies could have attacked with 8-13 divisions against 5-8 German divisions in prepared positions, representing odds of only 3:2 and without the benefit of surprise or air superiority.  May completely ignores the ability of the Germans to redeploy units from the Polish front to blunt any French breakthrough.  Worse still, May completely ignores the possibility that a premature French offensive in 1939 might have caused excessive casualties among the best French units, just as happened with Plan XVII in 1914.<br />  Certainly the most critical element of May's hypothesis about May 1940 is his attribution of German surprise to French non-predictive intelligence methods.  However, even if French intelligence had anticipated the German main effort at Sedan, May's assertion that the French response would definitely have resulted in a German defeat is absurd.  This hypothesis is flawed on many levels.  If the French had reinforced Sedan they might have block Guderian, but the French line would have been weakened in Belgium; the German timetable might have been upset, but they would probably have broken through elsewhere.  May ignores the fact that German panzer forces outfought the Allies in Greece in North Africa in 1941-2 where luck and surprise were less important.  Better intelligence would not have altered the torpid pace of Allied decision-making, their lack of air superiority or their faulty doctrine.<br />  Given the author's apparent meticulous research, the number of obvious factual errors is rather disturbing.  Since much of this information is available in secondary sources, I suspect that the errors were intentional distortions by the author to twist facts to support his hypotheses.  In order to bolster the perception of French tactical prowess, the author exaggerates French tactical success in order to suggest that the French could have won.  Actually, the Luftwaffe fighters clearly out-performed French fighters during the Phoney War period and the author's repeated use of a single incident on 6 November 1939 where the Germans lost 4 fighters to 1 French fighter is a fraudulent use of statistics (why not mention the action on 31 March 1940 where the Germans shot down 6 French fighters for no loss).  The author's assertion that the tank battle at Gembloux was a \\"clear-cut French victory\\" is a flat-out lie, which no other account supports.  At Fort Eben Emael, May claims that 55 out of 85 German glider troops were killed in the assault, but the actual number was 6 (a 900% exaggeration).  May claims that the British counterattack at Arras \\"temporarily routed\\" Rommel's 7th Panzer but this is clearly false; the 7th Panzer was surprised and suffered losses but the attempt to compare a few German anti-tank gunners running away under fire with entire French units surrendering is dishonest.  May fails to note that the British lost 30 tanks at Arras - 10 more than the \\"routed\\" Germans - and failed to stop the German march to the coast.  Finally, the author's description of Erwin Rommel's First World War experience as, \\"primarily a behind-the-lines commando\\" is absurd and intended to denigrate his ability to lead armor.<br />While the author's comments on the French failure to use predictive intelligence are interesting, there is no evidence that this failure was unique.  Certainly, if the Americans had anticipated the Pearl Harbor or World Trade Center attacks, history would have turned out differently, but we don't need a Harvard professor to tell us the obvious.  Predictive intelligence is necessary but far more difficult than the author implies and it is a common failing of many intelligence agencies.<br />  It is also very odd that the author makes no attempt to compare the May 1940 Campaign with Desert Storm in 1991, which had many similarities.  Might Iraq have done better if it had launched a hasty attack into Saudi Arabia in 1990? Might Iraq have defeated the American \\"left hook\\" with predictive intelligence?  The omission appears deliberate.  May's hypotheses are not substantiated and his methods are deceptive.uftwaffe fighters clearly out-performed French fighters during the Phoney War period and the author's repeated use of a single incident on 6 November 1939 where the Germans lost 4 fighters to 1 French fighter is a fraudulent use of statistics (why not mention the action on 31 March 1940 where the Germans shot down 6 French fighters for no loss).  The author's assertion that the tank battle at Gembloux was a \\"clear-cut French victory\\" is a flat-out lie, which no other account supports.  At Fort Eben Emael, May claims that 55 out of 85 German glider troops were killed in the assault, but the actual number was 6 (a 900% exaggeration).  May claims that the British counterattack at Arras \\"temporarily routed\\" Rommel's 7th Panzer but this is clearly false; the 7th Panzer was surprised and suffered losses but the attempt to compare a few German anti-tank gunners running away under fire with entire French units surrendering is dishonest.  May fails to note that the British lost 30 tanks at Arras - 10 more than the \\"routed\\" Germans - and failed to stop the German march to the coast.  Finally, the author's description of Erwin Rommel's First World War experience as, \\"primarily a behind-the-lines commando\\" is absurd and intended to denigrate his ability to lead armor.  <BR>While the author's comments on the French failure to use predictive intelligence are interesting, there is no evidence that this failure was unique.  Certainly, if the Americans had anticipated the Pearl Harbor or World Trade Center attacks, history would have turned out differently, but we don't need a Harvard professor to tell us the obvious.  Predictive intelligence is necessary but far more difficult than the author implies and it is a common failing of many intelligence agencies.  <br />    It is also very odd that the author makes no attempt to compare the May 1940 Campaign with Desert Storm in 1991, which had many similarities.  Might Iraq have done better if it had launched a hasty attack into Saudi Arabia in 1990? Might Iraq have defeated the American \\"left hook\\" with predictive intelligence?  The omission appears deliberate.  May's hypotheses are not substantiated and his methods are deceptive.	2002-01-27
1677267:US	52533596	R3J6SZ1GFIWSFH	1841763233	566303650	Axis Cavalry in World War II (Men-at-Arms)	Books	2	8	19	N	N	Not Much New Here	This volume of the Osprey Men-at-Arms series intends to cover the various Axis cavalry units in the Second World War, but it is a rather half-hearted effort.  The author has relied heavily on a few veterans for source material and adds precious little to what was already available in other Osprey volumes.  On the plus side, the illustrations are good, as usual and there are several useful tables on German cavalry unit organization.<br />  The volume consists of six sections: German army cavalry in 1939-1941, Cavalry operations in 1939-1941, Continuing role of cavalry in 1942-1945, Waffen SS cavalry, Mounting and supporting German cavalry and a short section on non-German cavalry.  Note that 80% of the volume covers German cavalry and much of the remaining 20% covers oddities like the Cossacks and Kalmyks.  While ignoring Japanese cavalry is not surprising given the Euro-centrism of the Axis, it is more surprising that the author ignores other German allies.  The Finnish army had the 1st Cavalry Brigade, which is not mentioned here, or the Bulgarian cavalry units employed in anti-partisan duties in Macedonia.  I believe the Croats and other minor Axis Eastern European allies may also have had some minor cavalry formations.  The Romanian, Hungarian and Italian cavalry divisions are covered in less than five pages.<br />  There are two main flaws in this volume.  First, there is very little discussion of Axis cavalry tactics used in the Second World War.  It would have been useful for the author to include information on a least a troop or squadron size action.  Nor does the author discuss Axis methods used in typical cavalry missions, such as reconnaissance, screening force and delay.  Given the mixed nature of German cavalry units, with mounted troops, bicycle troops and armored cars, their actual use in various missions requires greater explanation.  The second flaw is a failure to compare the various Axis cavalry units and discuss their strengths and weaknesses from an organization viewpoint.  Which Axis country had the most effective cavalry units and why? Nor does the author give more than short shrift to discussion of high-level cavalry operations.  Instead, too much effort focuses on equestrian-related issues, which are obviously of interest to the author, but less to the military historian.m an organization viewpoint.  Which Axis country had the most effective cavalry units and why? Nor does the author give more than short shrift to discussion of high-level cavalry operations.  Instead, too much effort focuses on equestrian-related issues, which are obviously of interest to the author, but less to the military historian.	2002-01-27
1690785:US	52533596	R331RZ2NON1HRH	0198150903	482957795	The Roman Army at War 100 BC - AD 200 (Oxford Classical Monographs)	Books	3	59	70	N	Y	Unsound Analysis	Adrian Goldsworthy, a classical scholar, initially wrote this book as a thesis at Oxford University.  Goldsworthy felt that, &quot;both the popular and scholarly view of the Roman army is at best highly misleading, and in most cases utterly false.&quot;  By employing the method introduced by John Keegan in the Face of Battle, Goldsworthy seeks to use classical literary sources to demonstrate how the Roman army actually fought on campaign.  The author relies heavily on the standard ancient sources - Caesar, Tacitus, Polybius, Plutarch, Josephus  - and synthesizes them in an effort to pain a collective portrait of the Roman army in action.  As a scholarly revisionist work, this book does provide an interesting synthesis of material from diverse sources.  Yet a sober analysis of this book reveals that it does not merit universal acclaim because it neither breaks significant new ground nor possesses sound analysis.<br />  Readers familiar with the classics of ancient history may be dismayed by the manner in which the author weaves together disparate anecdotes from more than 300 years of Roman military history in an attempt to validate his theories.  Examples from different centuries, different theaters of war and different types of war are thrown together into a bouillabaisse that is confusing and misleading.  Using examples so disparate in space or time - and with significant gaps in sources - to develop a general theory is intellectually dangerous.  Imagine attempting to develop a general theory on how the French army fought between 1640 and 1940 based upon a sprinkling of memoirs from the early 18th Century, the Napoleonic era, and the First World War and the problem should be apparent.  It is also noteworthy that the author criticizes other author's for using anachronistic sources in analyzing the Roman army, and then proceeds to do exactly that himself.  The author's choice of odd post-classical military references, such as out-dated Victorian military manuals, is particularly odd.<br />  Unfortunately, the author fails to provide much that is really new, and the little that is new is overly generalized and dubious.  Goldsworthy concludes that, &quot;the army's organization was not characterized by its rigidness, but, quite the contrary, by its great flexibility.  Its units adapted to the local situation.&quot;  And, &quot;the strategy adopted by many Roman armies on campaign was anything but methodical.&quot;  The author's main intent is to discredit the monolithic, automaton perception of the Roman army and replace it with a more complex view that encompasses innovation and human motivations.  Certainly taken against eighty-year old assessments such as J F C Fuller's, Goldsworthy's text appears more modern.  While using outdated ideas as fodder for a revisionist graduate school thesis makes sense, it does not make sense to re-cast this effort as a crusade to correct all other interpretations of Roman military methods.<br />  As in Keegan's Face of Battle, the author attempts to dissect the mechanics of Roman battle.  Critical to Goldsworthy's analysis is his unquestioned faith in S L A Marshall's assertion that only 25% of soldiers actively participate in combat.  Never mind that Marshall fudged much of his research or that US troops in Korea did not fight in close-order lines as the Romans did, Goldsworthy believes that this 25% figure was germane to the Roman army as well.  According to Goldsworthy, Roman infantry tactics were geared toward achieving a penetration in the enemy &quot;line&quot; and thereby collapse their morale, but if this did not immediately occur, the battle could ebb and flow until one side broke.  This is nonsense on many levels.  First, any subaltern knows that you cannot achieve a tactical penetration without local superiority, and a thin Roman double-line formation could not hope to achieve this against the typical dense-pack formations of most of its opponents.  Even if a small penetration were achieved, the Roman soldiers would be quickly enveloped and annihilated once outside the protection of their own battle line. Goldsworthy does raise three important issues, but fails to exploit them: the Roman preference for large reserves, the Roman knowledge that troops in close combat became exhausted after about 15 minutes and the stabbing tactics of the gladius sword.<br />  Modern armies typically maintain 1/9th of their forces in reserve to meet unexpected situations in battle, but the Romans kept a much higher percentage - about one-third.  There is no reason to believe that the Romans relied on the unpredictability of winning battles by the extra-aggressive behavior of only 25% of their infantry, but rather, far more plausible theories suggest that the Romans won by well-timed use of reserves.  It is likely that against Barbarians, the Romans expected their first two lines merely to hold off and exhaust the enemy for about 15 minutes.  At the decisive moment, the Roman general would commit his reserve and this third line would literally massacre the front-rank of the exhausted enemy, who usually lacked the discipline or command and control to employ a tactical reserve properly.  As Goldsworthy notes, the Barbarian &quot;wedge&quot; formations usually resulted in the tribal leadership out front and these were the men killed by the Roman reserves; without leadership, the rest of the enemy usually broke and ran.  The key question here, is how exactly did the Romans deploy their reserve through the first two lines.  However it was done, it required a high degree of training and discipline - both Roman strong points.  As for the gladius, Goldsworthy fails to note that stabbing tactics were essentially defensive and far less tiring than the wild, offensive slashing tactics employed by Rome's enemies.  Thus, Goldsworthy's depiction of Roman battle tactics is fundamentally flawed, although he does make some interesting observations.ation were achieved, the Roman soldiers would be quickly enveloped and annihilated once outside the protection of their own battle line. Goldsworthy does raise three important issues, but fails to exploit them: the Roman preference for large reserves, the Roman knowledge that troops in close combat became exhausted after about 15 minutes and the stabbing tactics of the gladius sword.<br />     Modern armies typically maintain 1/9th of their forces in reserve to meet unexpected situations in battle, but the Romans kept a much higher percentage - about one-third.  There is no reason to believe that the Romans relied on the unpredictability of winning battles by the extra-aggressive behavior of only 25% of their infantry, but rather, far more plausible theories suggest that the Romans won by well-timed use of reserves.  It is likely that against Barbarians, the Romans expected their first two lines merely to hold off and exhaust the enemy for about 15 minutes.  At the decisive moment, the Roman general would commit his reserve and this third line would literally massacre the front-rank of the exhausted enemy, who usually lacked the discipline or command and control to employ a tactical reserve properly.  As Goldsworthy notes, the Barbarian &quot;wedge&quot; formations usually resulted in the tribal leadership out front and these were the men killed by the Roman reserves; without leadership, the rest of the enemy usually broke and ran.  The key question here, is how exactly did the Romans deploy their reserve through the first two lines.  However it was done, it required a high degree of training and discipline - both Roman strong points.  As for the gladius, Goldsworthy fails to note that stabbing tactics were essentially defensive and far less tiring than the wild, offensive slashing tactics employed by Rome's enemies.  Thus, Goldsworthy's depiction of Roman battle tactics is fundamentally flawed, although he does make some interesting observations.	2002-01-17
1695092:US	52533596	R2EU71T6XNJSNL	1841762326	864733848	Orléans 1429: France turns the tide (Campaign)	Books	4	17	19	N	Y	Not Just Joan of Arc	Dr. David Nicolle, a prolific writer on medieval military history, provides an excellent summary of the campaign of Orl&eacute;ans in 1429 that changed the course of the Hundred Years War.  After years of smashing and humiliating defeats, a deeply divided France was able to achieve a military revival that turned the tide against the English invaders.  Although the impact of Jeanne d'Arc (Joan of Arc) is often over-stated in many accounts of this revival, Dr. Nicolle puts the famous French heroine in proper perspective and delivers a well-rounded campaign summary.<br /> Orl&eacute;ans 1429 is written in the standard Osprey campaign series format and begins with short sections on the origins of the campaign as well as opposing commanders, armies and plans.  A single 2-D map depicts the confusing French political boundaries in 1429.  The section on opposing commanders is quite detailed, and highlights the role of professional soldiers like the Gascon La Hire, who was just as necessary to the campaign as Joan.  Interestingly, the composition of the armies of both sides had changed significantly since Agincourt fourteen years before; noblemen had largely been replaced by mercenaries, non-knight professionals, foreigners and assorted roughnecks.  Evidently, the war was no longer the game of kings by 1429.  It is also interesting that both sides employed artillery to great effect in this campaign - a distinct change from earlier campaigns in the war.<br /> The campaign summary itself consists of 56 pages, divided into sections on the beginning of the English siege, the arrival of Joan, the storming of Les Tourelles, the abandonment of the siege and the Battle of Patay.  Three 3-D maps depict various phases of the siege, while there are five 2-D maps that cover initial campaign movements, the layout of the town's defenses, the French relief effort, the French recapture of the Loire castles and the Battle of Patay.  There are also three battle scenes that depict Joan's crossing of the Loire, Sir William Glasdale taunting Joan from the battlements and the Battle of Patay.  The Battle of Patay is particularly interesting since it was one of the few occasions that the vaunted French cavalry actually showed what it was capable of doing on a battlefield; in about one hour the English army retreating from Orl&eacute;ans was thoroughly smashed by a vigorous French pursuit.  Although there are numerous photographs and illustrations, many are only slightly relevant to the campaign; this is partly due to the paucity of medieval supporting material and partly due to the author's preference for including material of dubious relevance.  Nevertheless, the campaign summary is lucid and interesting, if a bit devoid of intensity.  This is both a strength and a weakness in Dr. Nicolle's work; he has the scholarly ability to thoroughly research medieval military history but as in his previous Constantinople 1453, he lacks the literary ability to bring out the drama and passion in history.  The Orl&eacute;ans campaign was a moment of high drama in French history that not only reversed a losing war, but also resuscitated the nearly defunct monarchy.<br /> While there is no doubt that Joan of Arc helped the French army to rekindle its morale, Dr. Nicolle also points out that doctrinal and technological changes also helped to overcome mistakes made in the past.  The French embraced artillery wholeheartedly, and even killed the first English commander in the siege with a lucky shot.  Doctrinally, the French shifted from a predilection for large, decisive battles to smaller, attritional battles where the English could be worn down over time.  Previous defeats had also made the French more cautious and they made efforts to avoid well-defended English positions.  Without the overweening arrogance of nobles eager for martial glory that had led to defeats like Crecy and Agincourt, the French army became more adept at exploiting English vulnerabilities.  Joan was the vital moral spark that helped the French to achieve a critical mass, but Dr. Nicolle's Orl&eacute;ans 1429 effectively points out that other military factors were at work as well.that helped the French to achieve a critical mass, but Dr. Nicolle's Orléans 1429 effectively points out that other military factors were at work as well.	2002-01-14
1704123:US	52533596	R67RRHIBMBSMA	0850528372	103783268	Hell's Highway: U.S. 101st Airborne -1944 (Battleground Europe)	Books	5	40	41	N	N	A Valuable Addition to Market-Garden History	Hell's Highway, which covers the dramatic events on the Eindhoven-Veghel stretch of highway in Holland on 10-26 September 1944, is one of the better Battleground Europe titles.  It was the battle for the highway that ultimately decided the outcome of the Allies daring but risky Operation Market-Garden.  Not only does this volume cover a neglected aspect of Operation Market-Garden in great detail, but the author's research, writing style and analysis provides a superb addition to the study of this campaign.  The supporting photographs, maps and diagrams are also excellent.  Once the additional planned volumes on Nijmegen and the Island are completed, this volume on Hell's Highway will be part of an important new historical trilogy that breaks the campaign down into distinct phases.<br />  This volume consists of 11 chapters, starting with the coup de main seizure of &quot;Joe's Bridge&quot; by the Irish Guards on 10 September 1944.  The relatively easy seizure of this vital bridge on the Dutch-Belgian border served to entice Field Marshal Montgomery to attempt even more dramatic operations in order to bring the war to a rapid conclusion.  The manner in which Joe's Bridge was seized and its impact upon the planning of Market-Garden is often ignored in standard histories of the campaign, but is covered in this book's second chapter.  Beginning with the third chapter, the author shifts to a detailed dissection of Operation Market-Garden in the US 101st Airborne Division and British Guards Armored Division sectors.  Individual chapters cover the initial XXX Corps attack, the 101st landings near Son, the often-ignored battle near Best, actions around St. Oedenrode, Veghel and Schijndel, and the German raids that temporarily cut the highway.  A detailed order of battle for the British Guards armored division and the US 101st Infantry Division is also provided.  Overall, the volume is well put-together and flows smoothly without distraction.  Although intended also as a battlefield guide, the author does not allow this requirement to subvert the historical value of his narrative by endless digressions on tourist highlights.<br />  One of the great values of this volume is the attention devoted to the initial XXX Corps attack, which is often glossed over in most accounts in favor of actions at Arnhem.  Particularly useful is the overlay depicting the XXX Corps artillery prepatory fire plan; although the 35-minute prep was fired by 350 guns most were lighter 25-pounders since the heavy corps artillery had not caught up to the front yet.  Consequently, the initial British prep fire was not as heavy as it should have been.  The supporting attacks launched by British 8th and 12th Corps on either side of Hell's Highway are also discussed in this account, although not in great detail.  However the most controversial aspect of this volume is the timing of the XXX Corp's starting H-Hour and the corps' premature stop on the first night.  The author tends to let Horrocks, the corps commander, off easily by stating that in retrospect, an H-Hour set at 1435 hours was too late in the day and that XXX Corps had little choice but to stop at sunset at 1847 hours.  Actually, these explanations appear as little more than a face-saving effort.  XXX Corps had been in contact with the German forces around &quot;Joe's Bridge&quot; for seven days prior to the launching of Market-Garden and the British had made little effort to exploit their bridgehead.  Even at the time, the Americans felt that the ground phase could have commenced before paratroopers actually started hitting the ground.  Horrocks wasted valuable daylight hours because he half expected the operation to be delayed by bad weather over England.  After ripping through the outer layer of the thin German defenses along the highway, the British used the loss of 10 out of 200 tanks and the approach of darkness as an excuse to call it a day.  Stopping one hour prior to sunset was certainly not the kind of decision one would expect from bold armor leaders.  Instead, the Germans used the time to hastily throw together a new blocking force that further delayed XXX Corps on D+1.  While most writers tend to blame the operation's ultimate failure on events at Son or Nijmegen, it is apparent that the ground-phase of Garden got off to a bad start.<br />  This volume also has good examples of British armor-US paratrooper joint actions, which are often ignored in other accounts.  Typically, most American-written accounts of the campaign tend to depict British armor as timidly led, ineffective and prone to walking into German anti-tank ambushes.  While incidents of this sort did occur, American accounts tend to underrate the number of times that British tanks saved US paratroopers from being overrun.  One interesting incident detailed here covers an action near Schijndel on 19 September 1944, when a single British Sherman tank operated by only two crewmen saved the US 1/502nd Airborne from a vicious German counterattack.  The limping British tank, commanded by a corporal, destroyed several German antiaircraft guns and allowed the US paratroopers to break contact.  The attachment of a British tank battalion to the 101st Airborne once the ground link-up occurred is also often ignored.  On the other side, German objectives and dispositions are also well covered.<br />  The only negative aspect of this book is the lack of a bibliography or any notes on sources for the numerous first-person accounts.  It is obvious that the author has used other secondary sources, such as Kershaw's It Never Snows in September and Ambrose's Band of Brothers.  Otherwise, this volume is a valuable addition to any reader interested in a detailed account of the initial ground phase of Market-Garden.t the kind of decision one would expect from bold armor leaders.  Instead, the Germans used the time to hastily throw together a new blocking force that further delayed XXX Corps on D+1.  While most writers tend to blame the operation's ultimate failure on events at Son or Nijmegen, it is apparent that the ground-phase of Garden got off to a bad start.  <br />    This volume also has good examples of British armor-US paratrooper joint actions, which are often ignored in other accounts.  Typically, most American-written accounts of the campaign tend to depict British armor as timidly led, ineffective and prone to walking into German anti-tank ambushes.  While incidents of this sort did occur, American accounts tend to underrate the number of times that British tanks saved US paratroopers from being overrun.  One interesting incident detailed here covers an action near Schijndel on 19 September 1944, when a single British Sherman tank operated by only two crewmen saved the US 1/502nd Airborne from a vicious German counterattack.  The limping British tank, commanded by a corporal, destroyed several German antiaircraft guns and allowed the US paratroopers to break contact.  The attachment of a British tank battalion to the 101st Airborne once the ground link-up occurred is also often ignored.  On the other side, German objectives and dispositions are also well covered.<br />     The only negative aspect of this book is the lack of a bibliography or any notes on sources for the numerous first-person accounts.  It is obvious that the author has used other secondary sources, such as Kershaw's It Never Snows in September and Ambrose's Band of Brothers.  Otherwise, this volume is a valuable addition to any reader interested in a detailed account of the initial ground phase of Market-Garden.	2002-01-07
1709413:US	52533596	RFXEZXTK0DCPU	0711021678	886443435	It Never Snows in September: The German View of Market-garden and the Battle of Arnhem	Books	5	22	22	N	N	An Excellent Battlefield Account	Although there are many books on the famous Operation Market-Garden in September 1944, It Never Snows in September is the best account in English that covers the German perspective on the battle.  The author, a serving British army officer, delivers an excellent account that offers valuable insights from the enemy viewpoint as well as sound military analysis.  Furthermore, the well-written narrative is enriched by excellent photographs (many from German collections) and detailed tactical maps.  This book is a feast for military historians and deserves a place in any military library.<br />  The book is divided into 27 short chapters that cover the period from 2 September to 4 October 1944.  Three interesting appendices cover the German orders to 2nd SS Panzer Corps on 17 September 1944, a detailed German order of battle for the entire campaign and a casualty estimate broken down by sub-units.  Kershaw's research into German sources is extensive and while it does have gaps, it provides far more detail than standard sources on the battle than journalistic accounts like A Bridge Too Far.  For example, Kampfgruppes Spindler, the vital blocking force that prevented the British 1st Airborne from reaching its objectives in strength on the first day, is not even mentioned in Ryan's classic account.<br />  Kershaw's view of the battle differs from most of the Allied accounts of the operation.  In his view, &quot;Allied historians have tended to blame mistakes rather than effective countermeasures in order to account for the failure.&quot;  It was, &quot;improvisation and rapid build-up of [German] force [that] blunted the attacks...German reaction times were astonishing.&quot;  Certainly the ability of the German commanders to rapidly assemble effective battle groups from various odds and ends - including Luftwaffe ground troops, sailors and railway workers - and throw them into the battle was incredible, but it came at the price of high casualties.  The untrained German kampfgruppes often suffered 50% losses in initial combat and these units had little ability to gain ground.  Nevertheless, the rapid deployment of these hodgepodge formations frustrated the over-complicated Allied plan that had not allowed for any significant enemy action.  Thus, Kershaw concludes that alterations to the Market-Garden plan, such as dropping the British 1st Airborne Division closer to Arnhem Bridge, probably wouldn't have changed the outcome very much.<br />  Another unique aspect that Kershaw brings out is the huge command and control problems affecting the German response to a huge, unexpected airborne attack.  The German chain of command in Holland was vague when the attack began and the Germans had made the amateur mistake of making the main north-south highway the command boundary; the British 30th Corps attack up this highway physically split the German forces.  Lack of radios in most units forced the German to rely on telephones and runners, which made response times very slow and inhibited the flexible tactical style that the German leaders preferred.  Officers were given ad hoc units and had to inspire untrained, often un-motivated troops to assault elite Allied paratroops that were dug-in.  Coordinating the attacks to sever the vital Allied link on &quot;Hells Highway&quot; was very difficult for the Germans and their command and control deficiencies were a critical restraint on their ability to effectively counterattack.<br />  Although the book overall is excellent, there are a few noticeable omissions and errors.  In terms of omissions, the critical actions around Elst on 21-23 September 1944 are not detailed.  How exactly did the Germans stop the final Allied lunge toward Arnhem Bridge and what exactly did the British do to try and break through?  Interestingly, part of the initial contact between the British 43rd Wessex Division and kampfgruppes Knaust near Elst on the evening of 22 September 1944 is mentioned, but only concerning Britishcasualties.  There is no mention that the British ambushed and destroyed five Tiger tanks in that action.  With the artillery, air and armored firepower available to 30th Corps, the inability to breach the German defenses at Elst deserves more attention in this account, particularly since the author cites the actions north of Nijmegen as decisive in determining the outcome.  In terms of errors, there are some noticeable mistakes in the German order of battle, particularly concerning the Tiger tanks used in the battle.  Only two companies of the 506th Heavy Tank battalion, with 30 Tiger II tanks, served in the later stages of the battle - the other company went to Aachen.  Kershaw incorrectly identifies the &quot;Hummel&quot; company as part of the 506th, but it was actually an independent company with 14 Tiger I tanks.  Panzer Company 224 had 16 ex-French Char B tanks, not 8 Renault tanks.  The composition of the 10th SS Panzer is also overly-vague.  The point is that the author's research is over twelve years old and new research in German archives have turned up information that clarifies and refines some of the data presented in this book.<br /> Overall, this book provides a much-needed English language account of the German view of Operation Market-Garden.  Many fine details that help to clarify the critical elements of the battle are presented here.  Some of the author's conclusions, such as those attempting to develop lessons that might assist a NATO defense against a Soviet airborne attack, are no longer relevant but the details of this brutal, exhausting, nerve-wracking, too-close-to-call battle provide their own lessons.  This book belongs in any professional military reading list.ncerning British casualties.  There is no mention that the British ambushed and destroyed five Tiger tanks in that action.  With the artillery, air and armored firepower available to 30th Corps, the inability to breach the German defenses at Elst deserves more attention in this account, particularly since the author cites the actions north of Nijmegen as decisive in determining the outcome.  In terms of errors, there are some noticeable mistakes in the German order of battle, particularly concerning the Tiger tanks used in the battle.  Only two companies of the 506th Heavy Tank battalion, with 30 Tiger II tanks, served in the later stages of the battle - the other company went to Aachen.  Kershaw incorrectly identifies the &quot;Hummel&quot; company as part of the 506th, but it was actually an independent company with 14 Tiger I tanks.  Panzer Company 224 had 16 ex-French Char B tanks, not 8 Renault tanks.  The composition of the 10th SS Panzer is also overly-vague.  The point is that the author's research is over twelve years old and new research in German archives have turned up information that clarifies and refines some of the data presented in this book.  <br /> Overall, this book provides a much-needed English language account of the German view of Operation Market-Garden.  Many fine details that help to clarify the critical elements of the battle are presented here.  Some of the author's conclusions, such as those attempting to develop lessons that might assist a NATO defense against a Soviet airborne attack, are no longer relevant but the details of this brutal, exhausting, nerve-wracking, too-close-to-call battle provide their own lessons.  This book belongs in any professional military reading list.	2002-01-03
1726757:US	52533596	R1OCTEIFJ0V9JB	1841763101	705005829	Bussaco 1810: Wellington defeats Napoleon's Marshals (Campaign)	Books	3	11	11	N	Y	Adequate, but Needs Better Maps	Bussaco 1810 is the second installment in Ren&eacute; Chartrand's trilogy on the Portuguese phase of the Peninsula War.  Like the previous volume, Vimeiro 1808, the author provides a  solid summary of a crucial early phase in that particular theater of the Napoleonic Wars.  This volume covers the period April-October 1810, with Marshal Massena's invasion of Portugal.<br /> As standard in the Osprey Campaign series, the volume begins with a section on the origins of the campaign and a campaign chronology, followed by well-written sections on opposing plans, opposing commanders and opposing armies.  While adequate, these sections are succinct and assume that the reader has access to other sources, particularly concerning the French and British armies in the Peninsula.  One concern in these sections is the relative pro forma treatment of Marshall Andr&eacute; Massena, which is inadequate given the crucial role that his leadership played in the campaign.  The stock descriptions of Massena as a barely-literate looter appear in virtually every source, but they are used as substitutes for real insight into the man who was one of Napoleon's best marshals.  Massena's brilliant battlefield performance at Aspern and Wagram the year before Bussaco are not even mentioned by Chartrand, but they are certainly relevant.<br /> The campaign itself is covered in six phases: the Battle of the River Coa against the British covering force, the siege of Almeida, the march to Bussaco and preliminary deployments, the Battle of Bussaco and the aftermath.  Three battle scenes depict the action at the River Coa Bridge, the explosion of Almeida's main powder magazine and the repulse of Ney's 6th Corps by Craufurd's Light Division at Bussaco.  An excellent order of battle for both sides is included, which has units identified down to regimental level and with manpower strengths.  The information on Allied artillery is good, but much less is provided on the French artillery.<br /> While the text of this account is excellent, as is usual for Chartrand, the battle itself is difficult to analyze for two reasons.  First, Massena's peculiar behavior in the days leading up to Bussaco is not well-addressed; the comments that he was pre-occupied with a mistress might explain a brief lapse, but not a string of bad decisions that were atypical of this otherwise excellent commander.  Was Massena sick (for example, modern historians now suspect that heart problems undermined General Robert E. Lee's performance at Gettysburg in 1863), or suffering from post-Wagram battle fatigue?  Unlike Wellington, Massena had been in the thick of two major battles in 1809.  The other problem that makes analysis difficult is the lack of adequate maps.  This volume has one 3-D map of the River Coa engagement, two 3-D maps of the main French attacks at Bussaco but only one small 2-D map that covers the movements toward Bussaco.  It is thus difficult to adequately evaluate Massena's approach to Bussaco or Wellington's response to the French invasion.  A vital question - could Massena have done anything differently at Bussaco - cannot be answered from this perspective.  While Chartrand suggests that Ney's preference for a hasty assault the day before might have produced better results, this is unlikely.<br /> As in the volume on Vimeiro, Chartrand has not attempted much analysis to explain the French failure.  There is little doubt that Massena fumbled the Battle of Bussaco due to violation of the principles of security, surprise and maneuver.  French pre-battle reconnaissance was abysmal.  Wellington used the terrain effectively and was able to mass sufficient combat power to defeat the French column attacks.  Yet Bussaco was not a true reflection of French contemporary tactics, since French cavalry was unengaged and their superiority in artillery was not exploited.  Nor were Wellington's famous &quot;reverse slope&quot; tactics utilized to any great extent.  If the French had attempted amethodical artillery preparation - particularly against the inexperienced Portuguese units - could Wellington have held?  A little analysis of what went wrong for the French army at Bussaco would have been useful.ical artillery preparation - particularly against the inexperienced Portuguese units - could Wellington have held?  A little analysis of what went wrong for the French army at Bussaco would have been useful.	2001-12-19
1742799:US	52533596	R2AR373BVFQRCE	0691015953	888745056	The Arming of Europe and the Making of the First World War (Princeton Studies in International History and Politics)	Books	3	27	30	N	Y	A Perceptional Analysis Explanation for the Great War	While the role of the European naval arms races in instigating the First World War have been covered in a variety of sources, the role of army development and ground arms races in the period 1904-1914 have heretofore only been addressed in passing.  David G. Herrmann, a history professor at Tulane University, seeks to address this gap in scholarship by addressing two inter-related issues: the transformation of European armies and the perception of military power in the decade prior to the First World War.  Herrmann believes that it is crucial to understand how European statesmen perceived the relative strength of opposing ground armies in order to trace the path to war in 1914.  Although this book is impeccably researched and uses historical data, at heart it is an international relations book than focuses on perceptional analysis.<br />  The book consists of seven chapters that cover the status of European armies in 1904, the First Moroccan Crisis of 1905, military effectiveness and modern technology in 1906-1908, the Bosnian Annexation Crisis of 1908, the Second Moroccan Crisis of 1911, the Balkan Wars of 1911-1912, and the European armies at the outbreak of war in 1914.  Two appendices cover the peacetime manpower strength of European armies and army expenditures of all the major powers in 1904-1914.  There are also four maps (incl. One that covers the French and German war plans of 1905 and changes in Russian deployment areas in 1910) and sixteen photographs.<br /><br />  There is no doubt that the author succeeds in hammering home his main points about the changing perception of military power in Europe and its effect on crisis management during this period. In 1905, no European powers were expanding their armies in a race against any other power and decision-makers viewed negotiation as the favored means of resolving a crisis.  Nine years later, all this had changed and the major powers were furiously building up their armies for what was perceived to be an inevitable world war.  War, not negotiation, became the favored option for crisis resolution.  Herrmann asserts that the change in modus operandi came about as a result of the resurgence of Russian military power following the Bosnian Crisis and the Austro-German perception of a dwindling superiority over the Allied Entente.  The idea of &quot;preventative war&quot; was born of desperation by leaders who envisioned a grim future for the evolving European balance of power.  While the author does not dispute the relevance of other factors, such as nationalism and ideology, he believes that this perceptional shift was greatly responsible for the outbreak of war in 1914.<br />  Of course, the inherent problem with this kind of perceptional analysis is that is held hostage to cognitive bias. Just because German and Austrian leaders perceived a relative power shift in 1912-1913 did not mean that either (a) there was in fact, a significant material shift in the balance of power or (b) war was the only solution to such a shift if it was real.  The actual extent of Russian recovery is debatable - indeed, if it was such a driving force in German perception why did war plans still consider France as the primary enemy?  If Germany sought a preventative war to stave off eventual Russian hegemony, the Schlieffen Plan was certainly a poor device to accomplish this goal.  Unfortunately, the type of input used by the author to build his perceptional analysis is often prone to self-justification for aggression, particularly by the Germans and Austrians.  Indeed, any improvements that another power makes - be they quantitative or qualitative in nature - could be perceived as &quot;destabilizing.&quot;  Twice in the 20th Century, German leaders have used the perception of growing Russian power to disguise wars of aggression as regrettable necessities.  The fact that German decision-makers viewed force as their only option to deal with a modernizing Russian only seems to underline the inherent poverty of German strategic thought.  Thus, Herrmann successfully lays out his hypothesis but it lacks moral objectivity.  Perceptional analysis can help to explain how wars start, as this account does, but it should not be used to justify those wars.  In modern terms, Usama Bin Ladin views western secular values as a threat to Islam and hence, a justification for jihad.  Perceptional analysis as used by Herrmann might help to understand how UBL made his decision to make war on the USA, but it does not mean that his perceptions are valid or even rational.<br />  On the military side, this book is rather superficial and lacks anything but the crudest of quantitative force comparisons.  It is rather difficult to evaluate French military power in 1905-1914 without even mentioning Colonel Grandmaison, the cult of the bayonet and &quot;offensive a outrance&quot; doctrine.  Similarly, the impact of the Haldane Reforms of 1907 on the British Army is barely mentioned, although the improvements in training standards and marksmanship greatly increased the combat power of the British Expeditionary Force.  Russian rearmament, which is crucial to the evolution of power perceptions in this analysis, is not given sufficient quantitative basis for evaluation.  Indeed, the author's figures show that the Russian peacetime army barely increased in size between 1910-1913 and German military spending exceeded Russia's in 1913; exactly how Russian power had increased is unclear.  Logistics, which had a huge impact on virtually all the major power war plans, are ignored.  Mobilization schedules and rail capacities, both crucial ingredients of comparative European military capabilities in 1914, are also ignored.  Thus, the author's comparisons of relative power seem crude and superficial.<br />  Overall, this book is an excellent text for students of international relations.  Yet as military history it is far too superficial.  The author's analysis adds depth to our understanding of why Europe went to war in August 1914, but it should not obscure the fact that it was a war of aggression and not merely a rationale effort to &quot;correct&quot; an imbalance in the equation of international power.ne the inherent poverty of German strategic thought.  Thus, Herrmann successfully lays out his hypothesis but it lacks moral objectivity.  Perceptional analysis can help to explain how wars start, as this account does, but it should not be used to justify those wars.  In modern terms, Usama Bin Ladin views western secular values as a threat to Islam and hence, a justification for jihad.  Perceptional analysis as used by Herrmann might help to understand how UBL made his decision to make war on the USA, but it does not mean that his perceptions are valid or even rational.  <br />    On the military side, this book is rather superficial and lacks anything but the crudest of quantitative force comparisons.  It is rather difficult to evaluate French military power in 1905-1914 without even mentioning Colonel Grandmaison, the cult of the bayonet and &quot;offensive a outrance&quot; doctrine.  Similarly, the impact of the Haldane Reforms of 1907 on the British Army is barely mentioned, although the improvements in training standards and marksmanship greatly increased the combat power of the British Expeditionary Force.  Russian rearmament, which is crucial to the evolution of power perceptions in this analysis, is not given sufficient quantitative basis for evaluation.  Indeed, the author's figures show that the Russian peacetime army barely increased in size between 1910-1913 and German military spending exceeded Russia's in 1913; exactly how Russian power had increased is unclear.  Logistics, which had a huge impact on virtually all the major power war plans, are ignored.  Mobilization schedules and rail capacities, both crucial ingredients of comparative European military capabilities in 1914, are also ignored.  Thus, the author's comparisons of relative power seem crude and superficial.<br />    Overall, this book is an excellent text for students of international relations.  Yet as military history it is far too superficial.  The author's analysis adds depth to our understanding of why Europe went to war in August 1914, but it should not obscure the fact that it was a war of aggression and not merely a rationale effort to &quot;correct&quot; an imbalance in the equation of international power.	2001-12-07
1749806:US	52533596	R2XFNIJDECB7C6	185532993X	40973058	Verdun 1916: ‘They shall not pass’ (Campaign)	Books	4	9	13	N	N	A Useful Adjunct to Horne	The latest Osprey Campaign Series, Verdun 1916, is a concise and useful summary of the battle of that name.  The immensely popular 1960 book by Alistair Horne, The Price of Glory, heavily influences Verdun 1916.  Indeed, this Osprey title reflects many of the same strengths and weaknesses of Horne's great book.  Historians and those interested in visiting the Verdun battlefield will find this a useful adjunct to Horne, but probably insufficient to stand on its own merit.<br /> This volume follows the standard Osprey campaign format, with sections on the origins of the campaign, the opposing armies, opposing commanders and opposing plans.  There are three 3-D &quot;bird's eye view&quot; maps that depict Colonel Driant's Last Stand (22 February 1916), the French attack on Fort Douamont (22 May 1916) and the Battle for Fleury (11 July 1916). Although there are several excellent 2-D maps that depict the layout and action around Fort Douamont and Fort Vaux, there is only one 2-D maps that depicts the entire Verdun battle area.  While the maps provided are interesting, they still do not depict the entire Verdun battle area (e.g. Mort Homme).  In addition to many interesting photographs, there are three battle scenes: Colonel Driant's Last Stand, the &quot;Sacred Way&quot; and underground fighting in Fort Vaux.  Overall, I would rate the graphic appeal of this volume as very high, which is one of the reasons to use this volume as a supplement to Horne.<br /> The author, a retired British sailor, presents an adequate - if not original - summary of the Verdun campaign from February to October 1916.  For those readers who have read Horne's Price of Glory, they will notice many similarities in this account, although the author does use some French sources to enhance the narrative.  Essentially, the bulk of the narrative focuses on the initial German attack, the surprise capture of Fort Douamont, then the bitter struggle for Fort Vaux, followed by the German loss of initiative and the final French counterattacks.  Although there is some discussion of the fighting on the west bank of the Meuse River, around Mort Homme and the surrounding hills, it is quick and has no supporting maps of photographs.  This is probably the greatest weakness of this account:  the author focused primarily on the area around the two forts because they are the nexus of the battle's mythology and also easy to visit.  When I visited Verdun this year, I certainly found Vaux and Douamont much more accessible than other parts of the battlefield.  However, the fighting on the west bank was very important to the overall campaign and this tends to be downplayed in favor of the more dramatic struggles for the forts.<br /> A few minor glitches appear in the author's apparent lack of sufficient research on contemporary army tactics and doctrines.  The author asserts that 1916 was a watershed year in military history and that armies had evolved into very different formations from 1914, which is a half-truth at best.  After two years of bloody stalemate the armies of both sides were still in the process of seeking solutions to conducting a breakthrough attack against entrenched machineguns, but they had yet to arrive at the solution.  Neither tanks, &quot;Hutier&quot; infiltration tactics or close air support were in evidence at Verdun in 1916.  While the armies had indeed added more specialist troops like engineers and abandoned some of the sillier pre-war tactics, the bulk of the infantry fought using evolutionary, not revolutionary tactics.  Infantry platoons were not &quot;all arms formations&quot; as the author asserts (nor are modern infantry platoons), and the handful of the new infantry support weapons were concentrated at company, battalion or regimental level.  Certainly the dreaded German Minenwerfer was too heavy to be carried around by assault infantry platoons.  Also, the author notes that the German 21st Infantry Division attacked with four full-strength regiments with a total of 12 battalions of infantry, but a &quot;square&quot; division only had 8 infantry battalions.<br /> Nor does the author make any real effort to assess the battle or its aftermath, other than to recount the casualty estimates.  Could the German strategy have worked?  Were the French skillful or lucky?  How did the Verdun Campaign influence combat in 1917-1918?  No effort is made to address such questions, but the author does waste effort - as Horne did - in recounting the Second World War celebrities who fought at Verdun as junior officers.  Is it really relevant that Wilhelm Keitel was a staff officer at Verdun (anymore than he was a staff officer in other First World campaigns)?<br /> Verdun 1916 should be appreciated for the fact that there are so few English-language books on this subject and for its graphic value.  The other main reason for buying this book is the excellent six pages of order of battle data, which lists all infantry units down to regiment or separate battalion level, as well as artillery and engineer units.  The lack of order of battle data was one of the biggest weaknesses in Horne's otherwise excellent book, but Verdun 1916 redresses that omission.regiments with a total of 12 battalions of infantry, but a &quot;square&quot; division only had 8 infantry battalions.  <br /> Nor does the author make any real effort to assess the battle or its aftermath, other than to recount the casualty estimates.  Could the German strategy have worked?  Were the French skillful or lucky?  How did the Verdun Campaign influence combat in 1917-1918?  No effort is made to address such questions, but the author does waste effort - as Horne did - in recounting the Second World War celebrities who fought at Verdun as junior officers.  Is it really relevant that Wilhelm Keitel was a staff officer at Verdun (anymore than he was a staff officer in other First World campaigns)?  <br /> Verdun 1916 should be appreciated for the fact that there are so few English-language books on this subject and for its graphic value.  The other main reason for buying this book is the excellent six pages of order of battle data, which lists all infantry units down to regiment or separate battalion level, as well as artillery and engineer units.  The lack of order of battle data was one of the biggest weaknesses in Horne's otherwise excellent book, but Verdun 1916 redresses that omission.	2001-12-01
1750353:US	52533596	R1TGU4UQGMQZM5	1841762318	469981992	St Nazaire 1942: The Great Commando Raid (Campaign)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Good Narrative but no Analysis	St Nazaire 1942 is an excellent narrative summary of the famous British commando raid in March 1942.  While this raid has been covered in detail in a variety of other books, this latest edition of the Osprey Campaign series adds detailed maps and diagrams that help to make sense of a very confusing night action.  However, the author Ken Ford has not followed the standard Osprey Campaign format very closely, which will upset some readers.<br />  Instead of the standard sections on opposing leaders, plans and forces, the author begins with sections that outline the reasons for the raid, the planning phase, training the raiding force, the Royal Naval forces involved, and the enemy.  While many details about leaders, tactics and equipment are included in these sections, the information is not as well packaged as usual. Furthermore, the author provides little information on the German perspective; only one leader is detailed and there is little information on Luftwaffe/Kriegsmarine patrols around St Nazaire. German anti-invasion plans and mine defenses are not discussed.  Intelligence collection about the target is only mentioned in terms of aerial reconnaissance, with no mention of either Enigma or the French resistance.  No formal order of battle information is provided for either side, although much of the data is embedded in the text.<br />  The raid itself is covered in excellent detail, with three sections covering the sea approach, the run up the Loire River and the actual assault.  There are three 3-D &quot;Bird's Eye View&quot; maps: the raid at H+10 minutes, the commando attacks in the dockyard and attacks in the Old Town.  There are four 2-D maps: the port itself, the route to St Nazaire, the path up the Loire River, and the dockyard targets.  In addition, there are three battle scenes depicting HMS Campbeltown charging toward the dock, the demolition of the Pump House and the final breakout attempt. Numerous excellent photographs also complement the text.<br />  The greatest flaw in this volume is the total lack of analysis.  While the raid was a brilliant success in terms of the objectives achieved, the virtual destruction of the raiding force needs closer examination.  Based more on brawn than brains, the British plan relied primarily on raw courage and luck to gloss over major flaws in the plan.  The British raiders were incredibly lucky in passing undetected within 750 meters of German coast defenses around St Nazaire and by the time they were spotted, the Germans could not stop HMS Campbeltown from ramming the dock.  However, the British did little to interfere with German coastal defenses other than an ineffectual air raid and crude deception efforts; had the Germans spotted the British ten minutes earlier the raid would probably have ended as an utter failure.  Furthermore, the lack of a viable evacuation plan - other than cruising past fully-alerted German defenses in slow, unarmored launches - was a major flaw in the plan.  The British were writing the book of how to conduct raids at St Nazaire and they made serious mistakes, fortunately which they learned from.<br />  Another huge mistake, which was one of the great lessons learned from the raid, was that transporting troops into combat in thin-skinned vehicles is a bad idea.  Of the 12 motor launches in the raid, 7 were sunk and 3 badly damaged; only 38 of 164 commandos on these launches were landed.  British losses in these exposed, unarmored launches were horrific, and remind the modern reader of the similar American mistake in sending troops in thin-skinned vehicles into combat in Mogadishu in 1993 (and with the same result).  There is not much discussion of alternatives to this type of raid and no discussion about lessons learned for future raids.  Nor is the effect of the raid on the French population of St Nazaire discussed.  Overall, this book is an excellent summary of the raid but the lack of analysis somewhat reduces its value as history.xt.  <br />    The greatest flaw in this volume is the total lack of analysis.  While the raid was a brilliant success in terms of the objectives achieved, the virtual destruction of the raiding force needs closer examination.  Based more on brawn than brains, the British plan relied primarily on raw courage and luck to gloss over major flaws in the plan.  The British raiders were incredibly lucky in passing undetected within 750 meters of German coast defenses around St Nazaire and by the time they were spotted, the Germans could not stop HMS Campbeltown from ramming the dock.  However, the British did little to interfere with German coastal defenses other than an ineffectual air raid and crude deception efforts; had the Germans spotted the British ten minutes earlier the raid would probably have ended as an utter failure.  Furthermore, the lack of a viable evacuation plan - other than cruising past fully-alerted German defenses in slow, unarmored launches - was a major flaw in the plan.  The British were writing the book of how to conduct raids at St Nazaire and they made serious mistakes, fortunately which they learned from.  <br />    Another huge mistake, which was one of the great lessons learned from the raid, was that transporting troops into combat in thin-skinned vehicles is a bad idea.  Of the 12 motor launches in the raid, 7 were sunk and 3 badly damaged; only 38 of 164 commandos on these launches were landed.  British losses in these exposed, unarmored launches were horrific, and remind the modern reader of the similar American mistake in sending troops in thin-skinned vehicles into combat in Mogadishu in 1993 (and with the same result).  There is not much discussion of alternatives to this type of raid and no discussion about lessons learned for future raids.  Nor is the effect of the raid on the French population of St Nazaire discussed.  Overall, this book is an excellent summary of the raid but the lack of analysis somewhat reduces its value as history.	2001-12-01
1750615:US	52533596	R2C01DE8N5SZG9	1841762970	815601864	Kolin 1757: Frederick the Great’s First Defeat (Campaign)	Books	4	16	19	N	Y	Good Narrative with Analysis	Unlike some other recent Osprey Campaign series titles, Kolin 1757 follows the standard Osprey format faithfully and even attempts some analysis of why the battle turned out as it did.  The Battle of Kolin was Frederick the Great's first defeat but it has not been covered well in recent historical writing and thus, this volume is something of a godsend to Prussian enthusiasts.<br /> The book begins with a short section on the road to war and chronology of the campaign, then moves rapidly into sections on opposing commanders, opposing armies and a detailed order of battle.  The section on commanders is quite good, and also discusses command and control in 18th Century warfare.  The Spring 1757 Campaign and Battle of Prague in May 1757 are covered in eight pages.  Unfortunately, the lack of a map for the Battle of Prague is a serious omission, since Frederick attempted similar maneuvers that should be compared at both Prague and Kolin.  Frederick's invasion of Bohemia in the Spring of 1757 also demonstrated his tendency to disperse his army in unsupporting columns, lacking centralized coordination and a weighted main effort.  The Spring Campaign also demonstrated the Austrian preference for unimaginative cordon defense tactics.  While Frederick won the Battle of Prague, it was a costly victory due to the lack of effective Prussian terrain reconnaissance.<br /> The Battle of Kolin itself, which resulted from an Austrian counteroffensive to relieve the besieged city of Prague, is well covered in forty pages of text.  There are three 3-D &quot;Bird's Eye View&quot; maps which depict the battle in phases covering 1600-1730 hours, 1730-1830 hours and 1900-2100 hours.  Also included are five 2-D maps which depict the approach march to battle, the initial dispositions and the retreat into Saxony.  Three excellent battle scenes depict Field Marshal Daun atop Przerovsky Hill, the repulse of the Prussian Norman dragoons by IR Botta and Frederick leaving the field.  Overall, the battle narrative is clear and well-supported by maps and illustrations, although the tangled nature of the charges and counter-charges atop Krzeczor Hill are difficult to follow.  One minor criticism is that the author's reference to the &quot;smell of cordite&quot; over the battlefield is erroneous since cordite was not yet invented.<br /> A welcome but unusual section in the aftermath of the battle attempts to analyze the action using the principles of war.  Unfortunately, the author does not seem to fully grasp what the principle of war consist of, since he includes morale and flexibility - which are not principles - but excludes maneuver and unity of command.  The author properly points out that the principle of objective was compromised by poor Prussian reconnaissance.  The principles of surprise and security were also squandered, which contributed greatly to defeat.  While the author properly pounds Frederick for lacking mass and wasting resources on secondary objectives, the criticisms only partly explain that the Prussians were attempting to attack at roughly 1:2 odds, instead of the recommended 3:1.  Overall, Frederick attempted to use maneuver and the offensive by means of a turning movement to place his enemies in a position of peril, which in itself was a good idea.  However, Frederick's turning movement was very clumsy and like his later famous &quot;oblique order,&quot; represented little more than a cleverly executed frontal attack.  Tactically, Frederick relied on the brawn of his infantry and cavalry to bash their way through a weak point in the enemy cordon, but Frederick was not very adept at finding those weak points.  Poor reconnaissance and the lack of effective combined arms tactics that made integrated use of artillery, cavalry and infantry were the weak points of Frederick's method of warfare.<br /> While the author addresses Frederick throughout the text, the portrait that emerges of Frederick in this campaign is far from &quot;great.&quot;  In particular, Frederick's contempt for the enemy severely degraded the quality of his operational planning; the author notes, &quot;Frederick anticipated the Austrians accommodating his plan by doing nothing to interfere with the movement of his army.&quot;  Frederick also had an unfortunate tendency to leave his army when things were going badly, which he did at Mollwitz, Lobositz and Kolin.  Instead of rallying his defeated troops, Frederick hastened to the rear to sulk.  Contrast Frederick's departure with Robert E. Lee's meeting the returning survivors of Pickett's Charge at Gettysburg in 1863 and the disparity of styles in defeat are striking.  When the Austrians pursued the defeated Prussians, Frederick turned over command to his brother while Frederick took to bed to mourn the death of his mother (apparently the death of thousands of his troops bothered him less).  Yet when Frederick's brother was bested by the Austrians in a minor action, Frederick humiliatingly removed him from command.  If anything is taught by the campaign of Kolin, it is that &quot;greatness&quot; is battlefield command is determined by exemplary leadership qualities, not the execution of fancy tactical maneuvers.eat.&quot;  In particular, Frederick's contempt for the enemy severely degraded the quality of his operational planning; the author notes, &quot;Frederick anticipated the Austrians accommodating his plan by doing nothing to interfere with the movement of his army.&quot;  Frederick also had an unfortunate tendency to leave his army when things were going badly, which he did at Mollwitz, Lobositz and Kolin.  Instead of rallying his defeated troops, Frederick hastened to the rear to sulk.  Contrast Frederick's departure with Robert E. Lee's meeting the returning survivors of Pickett's Charge at Gettysburg in 1863 and the disparity of styles in defeat are striking.  When the Austrians pursued the defeated Prussians, Frederick turned over command to his brother while Frederick took to bed to mourn the death of his mother (apparently the death of thousands of his troops bothered him less).  Yet when Frederick's brother was bested by the Austrians in a minor action, Frederick humiliatingly removed him from command.  If anything is taught by the campaign of Kolin, it is that &quot;greatness&quot; is battlefield command is determined by exemplary leadership qualities, not the execution of fancy tactical maneuvers.	2001-12-01
1777921:US	52533596	R33D7HBADWV1M4	0684804069	755026760	Code-Name Downfall: The Secret Plan to Invade Japan-And Why Truman Dropped the Bomb	Books	1	10	23	N	N	A Very Poor Effort at History	Downfall is subtitled &quot;the secret plan to invade Japan and why Truman dropped the bomb&quot;.  Supposedly this account traces the US plan to invade Japan but starts back in the 1930s and runs out of steam covering the war in episode fashion.  Incredibly, the authors employ a useless blow-by-blow summary of the Pacific War, including diversions on minor incidents like PT109.  By the time the authors get to the planning for Operations Olympic and Coronet, the authors devote virtually their entire focus on various casualty estimates - were they too high and did this drive the decision to drop the bomb.  However these casualty estimates, which range from well considered to wild guesses, do not constitute any sort of &quot;proof&quot; about the efficacy of the invasion plans.  Readers should consider just how erroneous the casualty estimates for Desert Storm were (anywhere from 5,000 to 50,000, actual US killed in action 148) and reflect, if Iraq had backed down in 1991 could historians have accurately assessed the viability of coalition plans based on these estimates.  Proper history begins with facts, not opinions.<br />  For readers who expect a lengthy discussion and analysis of the US invasion plans, this book is a great disappointment since the authors never discusses the plan in detail.  The two sketch maps that depict the US plans &quot;Olympic&quot; (the landing on Kyushu) and &quot;Coronet&quot; (landing on Honshu) depict only US corps-level invasion areas; neither inland objectives, scheme of maneuver or Japanese dispositions are depicted.  The orders of battle in the appendix are very generic, listing only US corps and divisions, and no Japanese units are listed.  Air units are ignored.  The three US corps commanders for &quot;Olympic,&quot; generals Schmidt, Hall and Swift, are never mentioned by name.  This could have been a great book if he had discussed the units involved on both sides (eg. which units were veteran units and which were untried), the terrain (obstacles, key terrain, avenues of approach), the commanders on both sides, logistics, etc. and discussed the likely timelines of US progress using phase lines. However, the actual account of US invasion delivered by this limp account is overly generic and hence, virtually useless.d), the terrain (obstacles, key terrain, avenues of approach), the commanders on both sides, logistics, etc. and discussed the likely timelines of US progress using phase lines. However, the actual account of US invasion delivered by this limp account is overly generic and hence, virtually useless.	2001-11-09
1803522:US	52533596	R24RPOPZLHQQF	1580970087	230667608	Gold Beach: Inland from King (Battleground Europe)	Books	2	11	11	N	N	Virtually Ignores Gold landings	Readers should be forewarned about the weakness of this book by a statement in the introduction that, this &quot;is a collection of inter-linked snapshots of specific incidents on the route inland [from Gold Beach].&quot;  In other words, the author deliberately lowers expectations from the get-go.  Readers expecting a detailed account of the British landing on D-Day at Gold Beach will be vastly disappointed by this collection of bric-a-brac.  The quality of the Battleground Europe series varies widely from volume to volume, from very good to poor, but Gold Beach certainly defines the lower spectrum of its bell curve.<br /> Gold Beach: Inland from King consists of eight chapters, with the first providing only a general introduction to Operation Overlord.  The second chapter, concerning a British destroyer that did not participate in the landings at Gold Beach, is a totally irrelevant waste.  My biggest problem with this book is the incredibly short shrift given to the actual landings on Gold Beach - only about 15 pages, including photos.  More than half the British landing is ignored, with very little mention of the 56th Brigade landings on &quot;Jig&quot; Beach or the Royal Marine Commandoes attempt to seize Port en-Bessin.  Nor is the great effort of General Hobart and his 79th Armored Division &quot;funnies&quot; given any attention.  In fact, most of the actual landings and fighting on the beach are ignored in favor of following one individual in the 6th Battalion, Green Howards.  This is the problem with attempting to convert veteran's reminisces into military history: it easily becomes overly narrow and incoherent. The fourth chapter covers a clumsy British tank action inland on the evening of D-Day, which does little to improve the reader's impression of the expansion of the beachhead.  Indeed, the author makes virtually no attempt to even display what objectives the 50th Division achieved at Gold on D-Day and which objectives it failed to achieve.  The German defenses in the area and their reactions to the landing are not even mentioned until the fifth chapter, and the actual German defenses on Gold Beach are never really addressed.  Even as a tour guide, this book is a failure, since despite what the cover description reads, there is no full description of the Gold beach landing sites.<br /> The sixth chapter reverts to following the exploits of a few individuals in the 6th Green Howards - obviously the main source of information for this book - in a minor action around Tilly on 11 June 1944.  The only part of this book that has any value is the chapter on the Battle of Villers-Bocage on 13 June 1944,with the epic ambush of the 7th Armored Division by Michael Wittman's Tiger tanks.  While this battle is not really germane to either the Gold landings or the British 50th Division, it is much better told than the other chapters.  In fact, the many excellent photographs and maps of the action allow the reader a much better appreciation of this famous action than provided in many other accounts.  Unfortunately, the author slips back into his previous mode in the final chapter, which covers the capture of Lingevres on 14 June 1944.  At that point, the book abruptly ends for no fathomable reason; why stop at D-Day plus 8?<br /> Incredibly, there is no detailed order of battle for the 50th Division units which landed on D-Day, which is unusual for a Battleground Europe title.  While it was obviously not the author's intent to provide a detailed history of the entire D-Day landing or the Normandy campaign, it seems that his intent was not even to cover the Gold landings in any real detail.  This book could just as easily have been titled &quot;Villers-Bocage,&quot; since the author spends more time on that one action than the actual D-Day landing at Gold.  Instead, the author wasted much space on irrelevant side-issues because he chose to stuff this account with whatever personal recollections were at hand, rather than attempting to provide a useful historical framework.  A valuable opportunity to illuminate the effectiveness of British amphibious tactics and the lessons learned from the 1942 Dieppe landings was wasted here.  The successful British landing on Gold at such low cost is virtually obscured by the bric-a-brac approach of this author.ttempting to provide a useful historical framework.  A valuable opportunity to illuminate the effectiveness of British amphibious tactics and the lessons learned from the 1942 Dieppe landings was wasted here.  The successful British landing on Gold at such low cost is virtually obscured by the bric-a-brac approach of this author.	2001-10-19
1803655:US	52533596	R3AIJ8X2AJ0XK4	1580970109	173003116	Normandy : Pegasus Bridge and Merville Battery (Battleground Europe)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good Maps &amp; Photos Complement Text	This volume of the Battleground Europe series covers the actions of the British 6th Airborne Division in Normandy, mostly on 6 June 1944 but with some mention of post-D-Day activities.  Obviously, the main focus of the book is on the two most dramatic and successful actions, the capture of Pegasus Bridge and the Merville Battery on D-Day itself.  While Pegasus Bridge has certainly been covered in other books, the seizure of the Merville Battery generally gets less attention and the demolition of numerous bridges over the Dives River gets almost none, which this book aims to correct.  While primarily a tour guide of the modern battlefield, this volume does an effective job of putting the contributions of the 6th Airborne into proper perspective.  For American readers who want to know more about what the British airborne did in Normandy and want to go beyond just the Pegasus Bridge incident, this volume serves that purpose admirably and at a modest cost.<br /> The author graciously begins the book with pertinent background on how the British airborne operations fit into the overall Overlord plan and what the three main objectives of the 6th Airborne were.  The locations, units and drop schedules are listed, along with excellent aerial photos of the objectives.  A good section on the German defenses is also provided.  This first chapter is quite good and sets the stage for the rest of the book.  Well done!<br /> The remarkable assault on Pegasus Bridge is covered in 33 pages, which include excellent contemporary aerial photos.  While the British planning and execution were superb - it probably is not possible to conduct a better raid than this one - the British were also aided by some lucky breaks.  American readers familiar with this action from the movie The Longest Day will quickly realize that the movie did not do this attack justice.  For one thing, Major Howard's force was only alone at the bridge for thirty minutes before other paratroops starting reinforcing the bridgehead; within two hours there was most of a battalion at the bridge and the British had fanned out into the nearby villages.  The Germans reacted quickly and during 6 June, Howard had to fend off enemy tanks, fighter-bombers, gunboats and frogmen.  I was also amazed to learn that the British actor Richard Todd, who portrayed Major Howard in the Longest Day, actually served as a lieutenant at Pegasus Bridge.  It is certainly unusual for an actor to have served in the battle he is portraying.  The only defect in this section is the limited information provided on the exact organization of Major Howard's group and their casualties.<br /> Equally well done is the section on the Merville battery, a German artillery battery that threatened the British sea borne landing beaches.  Excellent photographs and diagrams are provided to supplement the text.  The assault plan is discussed in detail and there are even several photographs of the German battery commander.  Unlike Pegasus Bridge, the British plan for assaulting the formidable Merville Battery quickly went awry when 80% of the British airborne battalion failed to land on the correct drop zone near the battery.  The British commander, Lieutant-Colonel Otway, was forced to make the decision to attack with only 20% of his men and with few supporting weapons or abort.  He chose to press on.  LTC Otway notes, &quot;in the parachute regiment, giving up is not an option.&quot;  American readers should consider the similar situation which confronted Colonel Beckwith at Desert One in 1980, and how he chose the opposite course.  In any event, Otway pressed on and assaulted through the minefields surrounding the Merville Battery and eliminated most of the garrison.  Merville was a very deadly company-level battle, with 66 of the 150 British assault troops killed, but it shows what well-trained troops are capable of accomplishing.  One interesting incident at Merville was that of the 22 Germans captured, one medical orderlywho assisted both German and British wounded was recommended for an Iron Cross medal by LTC Otway.  The British commander sent a recommendation for the award back to the Germans with one of their wounded officers.<br /> Unfortunately, the remainder of the book gets bogged down in tourist guide detail and the primary focus of the first three chapters is lacking.  While the effort by the rest of the 6th Airborne to blow up the Dives River bridges and establish blocking positions is interesting, it is somewhat incoherently portrayed in these last two chapters.  While the 6th Airborne suffered over 30% losses in Normandy, it is clear that the British got their moneys worth from these well-trained and motivated troops.  An appendix at the back of the book lists the complete order of battle for the division.  This book is highly recommended for its military detail, maps and excellent photographs.erly who assisted both German and British wounded was recommended for an Iron Cross medal by LTC Otway.  The British commander sent a recommendation for the award back to the Germans with one of their wounded officers.  <br /> Unfortunately, the remainder of the book gets bogged down in tourist guide detail and the primary focus of the first three chapters is lacking.  While the effort by the rest of the 6th Airborne to blow up the Dives River bridges and establish blocking positions is interesting, it is somewhat incoherently portrayed in these last two chapters.  While the 6th Airborne suffered over 30% losses in Normandy, it is clear that the British got their moneys worth from these well-trained and motivated troops.  An appendix at the back of the book lists the complete order of battle for the division.   This book is highly recommended for its military detail, maps and excellent photographs.	2001-10-19
1808151:US	52533596	R16DBJWBQFGSRW	1841760900	121386746	The Alamo 1836: Santa Anna's Texas Campaign (Campaign, 89).	Books	4	19	22	N	Y	A Sober Overview of a Heroic Tale	The siege of the Alamo has become so imbued with a legendary aura that attempting to write a military history of the 1836 campaign in Texas is now a daunting task.  Heroic visions of Crockett, Bowie and Travis fending off Mexican assault troops on the ramparts has tended to obscure the fact that the siege of the Alamo was neither the beginning or the end of the war for Texas independence.  Noted Texas historian Stephen L. Harding has framed the 1836 campaign in its proper perspective, without embellishment or historical embellishment.  The result is a lucid and well-written account that covers the entire campaign from February to May 1836, without over-focusing just on the Alamo.<br />  In accordance with the standard Osprey Campaign series format, the book begins with a section on the origins of the campaign and the chronology.  While this section lays out the roots of the conflict clearly,  the relationship between the fledgling Texan republic and the United States is left ambiguous, particularly in regard to military support and volunteers.  The section on opposing commanders focuses almost exclusively on the Mexican General Santa Anna and the Texian General Sam Houston, both of whom are portrayed as very flawed commanders.  Unfortunately, details on other significant commanders such as Travis, Bowie, Crockett and Fannin are inserted in the campaign narrative, which is disruptive.  It was interesting however to see that attention given to the oft-neglected Mexican General Urrea's skillful operations.  The section on opposing armies is weak, compounded by the fact that there is not even an order of battle provided for the Mexican army.  Nevertheless, what the narrative lacks in military detail is often compensated for by an effective literary style is used to enhance the author's points.  For example, the author notes both the rank discrimination and logistic difficulties in the Mexican army by asserting, &quot;[Mexican] generals drank French wine from cut crystal, soldados drank stagnant water out of mud holes.&quot;<br />  The text is supported by five 2-D maps (Mexico &amp; Texas in 1836, the Texas Campaign in 1836, the Battle of Coleto Creek, the San Jacinto Campaign and the Mexican Retreat) and three 3-D Birds-eye-view maps (two depicting the assaults on the Alamo and one on the Battle of San Jacinto).  There are also three very good battle scenes: the death of Travis at the Alamo, Crockett falling back into the Alamo Church and the execution of Colonel Fannin.  Numerous illustrations and modern photographs of the Alamo complement the narrative.  In addition, the author has provided a detailed section on visiting the battlefield today and includes relevant Internet websites.  Taken together, this book represents an excellent short history of the campaign and a useful battlefield guide for visitors.<br /><br />  The campaign narrative itself is quite good, with about ten pages devoted to the siege of the Alamo, nine to Fannin's pathetic efforts and the Goliad massacre, and nine to the San Jacinto Campaign.  The author is a bit vague on casualties and military details, but he does detail the effects of the harsh winter weather and desolate terrain on the Mexican offensive.  Indeed, weather and terrain probably played a bigger role in the Mexican defeat than Texian heroics.  Concerning the fall of the Alamo, the author believes that Santa Anna launched a costly frontal assault for political rather than military reasons, but this downplays the fact that Santa Anna was de facto Mexican head of state and commander in chief.  Santa Anna could not afford to waste too much time in sieges of minor rebel fortifications.  Also, Santa Anna's &quot;no quarter&quot; policy to the Texian rebels was not out of step with other similar 19th Century sieges like the Paris Commune in 1870 or even Dublin in 1916.  Imagine if Santa Anna had accepted surrender at the Alamo and allowed the rebels to go home on parole; could men such as Travis ever be trusted to live meekly under centralista rule?  Not likely.  If Santa Anna wanted to hold onto the rebels, he had to either kill them or drive them out, since there was no room for compromise.  If anything is reaffirmed by the 1836 campaign, it is that war is tough on the defeated, whether Texians at the Alamo or Mexicans at San Jacinto.<br />  In the end, the author concludes that the Texians won in spite of the incompetence of Sam Houston, who refused to send a relief force to the Alamo, then avoided battle thereafter and retreated toward the US border.  Houston was more politician than soldier and his troops were openly contemptuous of his leadership abilities.  At San Jacinto, Santa Anna's own leadership flaws compensated for Houston's incompetence and Texian ferocity inspired by the Alamo and Goliad massacres was enough to tip the balance in their favor.ravis ever be trusted to live meekly under centralista rule?  Not likely.  If Santa Anna wanted to hold onto the rebels, he had to either kill them or drive them out, since there was no room for compromise.  If anything is reaffirmed by the 1836 campaign, it is that war is tough on the defeated, whether Texians at the Alamo or Mexicans at San Jacinto.<br />    In the end, the author concludes that the Texians won in spite of the incompetence of Sam Houston, who refused to send a relief force to the Alamo, then avoided battle thereafter and retreated toward the US border.  Houston was more politician than soldier and his troops were openly contemptuous of his leadership abilities.  At San Jacinto, Santa Anna's own leadership flaws compensated for Houston's incompetence and Texian ferocity inspired by the Alamo and Goliad massacres was enough to tip the balance in their favor.	2001-10-17
1808576:US	52533596	R31GTB1RPHGKSD	1841762962	769671158	Operation Cobra 1944: Breakout from Normandy (Campaign)	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	An Excellent Summary of the Great Breakout	There are certain authors that readers can trust to deliver excellent military history, and Steven J Zaloga is one of them.  In his latest title for Osprey, Zaloga covers the American-led breakout from the Normandy bridgehead in July-August 1944 that sent Hitler's armies reeling back across France.  While Zaloga has done a good job summarizing the main points of Martin Blumenson's authoritative official history of Operation Cobra, he has provided additional value by including input from more recent scholarship on specific facets of the campaign, such as the impact of tactical air power.<br />  In accordance with the Osprey Campaign series format, the book starts with a section on the background to the campaign and includes a campaign chronology.  Zaloga provides good insight into the debilitated state of the Wehrmacht units and the rising competence of US units in the section on opposing forces.  The section on opposing commanders is adequate, but French General Leclerc who made a contribution in the campaign is omitted, while non-involved characters such as Montgomery are included.  On the German side, Panzer Lehr's Fritz Bayerlein should also have been included.  The section on opposing plans is adequate but more mention of how ULTRA shaped Allied planning should have been included.  The order of battle is a bit skimpy because it only addresses division-size units from both sides that participated in the initial phase of Cobra; American non-divisional assets such as independent tank, tank destroyer and artillery units should have been added.  Nevertheless, Zaloga succeeds in providing fresh insights into material that is well worn, if not always well covered.  Certainly he makes good points on Allied superiority in communications and logistics which are not viewed as &quot;sexy&quot; by some armchair historians who prefer to stress comparative tank statistics and such.<br />  The maps are quite good in this volume.  There are five 2-D maps, depicting: the theater situation on 24 July 1944, the plan for Cobra, the breakthrough on 25-30 July, the race through Brittany and the pursuit to the Seine.  Unfortunately, there were no 2-D maps of the Mortain counterattack or the Falaise pocket.  There are only two 3-D Birds-eye-view maps in this volume: the carpet-bombing of the Panzer Lehr Division and the Mortain counterattack (which is too small and difficult to understand).  There are three excellent battle scenes: the carpet bombing of Panzer Lehr, US tanks in the breakout and Panther tanks in the Mortain counterattack.  The photographs provided are also excellent, particularly if one enjoys viewing destroyed German vehicles and their dead occupants (there are no photographs of US casualties).  Overall, the text is cleanly-written and the campaign narrative fits well together.  Zaloga also makes a good connection between Operation Cobra's breakout and the landings in southern France; often Operation Dragoon gets short shrift in the Normandy saga, but Zaloga effectively points out the inherent linkage between the campaigns and how it precipitated the German collapse in the West.<br />  Zaloga has marshaled the available facts well and there is little controversy in this book, although there are a few issues open to some debate.  First, the actual effect of Allied airpower on the campaign was clearly significant but difficult to quantify.  Zaloga seems to lean toward accepting all or most Allied claims for destruction of German vehicles, whereas some new research suggests the direct losses were not as large.  Zaloga also accepts claims that most of the German divisions retreating from Normandy were &quot;virtually destroyed,&quot; when this usually only refers to the combat elements.  In each case, Zaloga might have advised the reader that other sources disagree with the extent of damage to German units.  Another issue concerns the culpability for the defeat on the German side; Zaloga places most of the blame squarely on SS GeneralPaul Hausser for poorly deploying his units and then making a hash of the withdrawal.  Field Marshal von Kluge and the rest of the German leadership - aside from Hitler - appear almost blameless.  This interpretation looks like the creation of an SS scapegoat by Wehrmacht officers, particularly given that Operation Cobra occurred only five days after the failed plot to kill Hitler.  While Hausser's leadership of 7th Army was probably not the greatest, the German defeat in Operation Cobra was not due only (or mostly) to his mistakes.  Additionally, the lack of any information on US losses in the campaign also appears to deprive this account of some balance.  There is also one mistake in the text, when Zaloga states that, &quot;the 2nd SS Panzer Division commander was killed by a US patrol near his command post.&quot;  In fact, Heinz Lammerding, commander of &quot;Das Reich,&quot; was wounded in late July but returned to duty later in the year.  Aside from these points, this is a fine summary volume.n SS General Paul Hausser for poorly deploying his units and then making a hash of the withdrawal.  Field Marshal von Kluge and the rest of the German leadership - aside from Hitler - appear almost blameless.  This interpretation looks like the creation of an SS scapegoat by Wehrmacht officers, particularly given that Operation Cobra occurred only five days after the failed plot to kill Hitler.  While Hausser's leadership of 7th Army was probably not the greatest, the German defeat in Operation Cobra was not due only (or mostly) to his mistakes.  Additionally, the lack of any information on US losses in the campaign also appears to deprive this account of some balance.  There is also one mistake in the text, when Zaloga states that, &quot;the 2nd SS Panzer Division commander was killed by a US patrol near his command post.&quot;  In fact, Heinz Lammerding, commander of &quot;Das Reich,&quot; was wounded in late July but returned to duty later in the year.  Aside from these points, this is a fine summary volume.	2001-10-16
1810996:US	52533596	RQI3PTCA5RVBK	1841763098	379277199	Vimeiro 1808: Wellesley’s first victory in the Peninsular (Campaign)	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	Doesn't Quite Connect the Dots	As usual Rene Chartrand has put a good effort into his latest effort, on the campaign that began Arthur Wellesley's (AKA the Duke of Wellington) amazing career in the Iberian Peninsula.  There is nothing particularly novel are striking in this account, but it provides an excellent summary of the campaign that began the British intervention in Spain and Portugal.<br />  The book is set up a bit differently than other Osprey Campaign series titles because about one-third of the text is used to provide background on the campaign, beginning with the French invasion of Portugal in 1807 and the outbreak of popular rebellions in both Spain and Portugal.  As usual, there are sections detailing the opposing commanders, armies and plans.  One chapter covers the Battle of Rolica, another the Battle of Vimeiro and a third covers the Sintra Convention.  Orders of battle are provided for the 1807 invasion, Rolica and Vimeiro.  There are five 2-D maps showing the 1807 invasion, the rebellion in June-July 1808, the punitive expedition to Teixeira in June 1808, the British landing in August 1808 and a strategic map of the peninsula in the fall of 1808.  There are three 3-D maps: the Battle of Rolica and two of Vimeiro.  In addition, there are three battle scenes depicting British infantry attacking at Rolica, the charge of French grenadiers at Vimeiro and the British cavalry counterattack at Vimeiro.  The maps of the Battle of Vimeiro are not small scale enough, which makes it difficult to comprehend the actual details of the French attack and British defense; a small-scale 2-D map should have been used to display opposing battalion dispositions.<br />  Although Chartrand does a good job laying out the details of the French defeat, he fails to connect the dots.  First, the French commander, Junot, seemed to violate as many principles of war as possible.  Mass was not achieved because Junot failed to weight his main effort; he split his army into nearly equal halves and initially attacked 4,700 British troops in 6 battalions with only 4,200 French troops in 4 battalions.  Surprise was lost through poor security, which allowed Wellesley to redeploy his troops, resulting in a French attack at no more than 1:1 odds.  Junot's flanking maneuver was also detected and defeated.  Over-confidence on the French side led to poor pre-battle reconnaissance and Junot was unaware of the British strength and dispositions.  Compounding these failures, Junot failed to exploit his superiority in artillery and cavalry, while Wellesley made the most of his few guns and mounted troops. The only principle of war that the British violated was unity of command, which deprived them of pursuit but not victory.  The French lost the battle because they violated the fundamentals of mass, surprise and security, not because columns can't beat lines.  This &quot;column versus line&quot; argument has been exaggerated into a cult for too many years and ignores the principles of war. If Junot's columns had been properly massed at a point that Wellesley had not expected, the French would have broken the British lines.  Chartrand is silent on these issues.<br />  Why did Junot's army violate so many principles of war?  The answer lies in inexperience, over-confidence and amateurish behavior.  It is not brought out in this text, but most of the French units had seen little action before Portugal.  Both the French 1/86 and 2/86 battalions had been sent on the disastrous expedition to Santo Domingo in 1802 and saw no action in the 1805-1807 campaigns in Europe.  The 3/82nd had been raised from detachments in the West Indies and had only just returned to Europe after years of colonial duty.  Of the units involved in the French main attack at Vimeiro, only the 3/32nd had served with la Grande Arm&eacute;e in 1805-1807.  Much the same held true for the brigade and battalion-level officers, whom Chartrand does not discuss much.  Brigadiers Thomiere and Charlot, who led the main attack, had both served in Italy in 1796-7 but had not commanded troops in the 1805-7 campaigns.  Brigadiers Brenier and Solignac, who led the flank attack, also had Italian experience but little else.  Junot's Army of Portugal was an ad hoc collection of inexperienced troops and limited-service officers.  Of course, Napoleon had intended this force as an army of occupation in a remote corner of Europe, not as a first-line combat force.  Thus, Wellesley's first taste of command was against an outnumbered and decidedly second-string French army.  Yet if Wellesley had been attacked by troops under Marshal Davout or Lannes from the Grande Armee, the results would probably have been vastly different.  The British army itself was still pretty inexperienced at continental maneuver war in 1808 and Napoleon made the mistake of continually sending inadequate, second-rate armies to deal with the British, which only gave the British valuable combat experience as they defeated one French army after another.  Thus, Wellesley's great reputation built in the Peninsula was due at least as much to Napoleon's strategic short-sightedness as British tactical skill.had both served in Italy in 1796-7 but had not commanded troops in the 1805-7 campaigns.  Brigadiers Brenier and Solignac, who led the flank attack, also had Italian experience but little else.  Junot's Army of Portugal was an ad hoc collection of inexperienced troops and limited-service officers.  Of course, Napoleon had intended this force as an army of occupation in a remote corner of Europe, not as a first-line combat force.  Thus, Wellesley's first taste of command was against an outnumbered and decidedly second-string French army.  Yet if Wellesley had been attacked by troops under Marshal Davout or Lannes from the Grande Armee, the results would probably have been vastly different.  The British army itself was still pretty inexperienced at continental maneuver war in 1808 and Napoleon made the mistake of continually sending inadequate, second-rate armies to deal with the British, which only gave the British valuable combat experience as they defeated one French army after another.  Thus, Wellesley's great reputation built in the Peninsula was due at least as much to Napoleon's strategic short-sightedness as British tactical skill.	2001-10-14
1811447:US	52533596	R3VDW4Z9IBSZWL	158097046X	688930106	Dunkirk (Battleground Europe)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Good but not comprehensive	Dunkirk: From Disaster to Deliverance provides a good small-unit view of the British withdrawal from Dunkirk in June 1940.  While this account is far from comprehensive, it does address the essential elements of the campaign and also serves as a guide to the modern monuments in the area.<br />  The book consists of eight chapters, beginning with a brief overview of the Phoney War and the initial German blitzkrieg in May 1940.  Unfortunately, the book provides little information on how the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) was deployed when its commander, Lord Gort, decided to withdraw to Dunkirk on 26 May.  A map showing BEF dispositions on 26 May and an order of battle for the BEF would have been helpful, but they are not provided. The next two chapters deal with minor incidents that attempt to convey the flavor the retreat: a desperate brigade-level defense of a fortified town to delay the German advance and a massacre of British POWs by an SS unit.  While interesting, these sections give little feel for what the BEF as a whole was doing on 26-30 May, since the author focuses on a few battalions in the rearguard.  Four chapters then cover the defense of the perimeter and the actual evacuation, and these are certainly the most interesting aspect of the book.  A final chapter that asks, was Dunkirk a victory or defeat, serves as a conclusion.  Overall, the quality of the text and photographs are quite good, although the maps are just adequate.  The lack of an order of battle for either side and a chronology are unfortunate omissions.<br />  The author attempts the difficult task of de-mythologizing the &quot;myth&quot; of Dunkirk while not reducing or obscuring the value of this withdrawal.  In the areas he has covered, he succeeds.  Brave last stands by determined British rearguards are counter-balanced by ugly scenes of panic and self-preservation on the evacuation beaches.  Large ships evacuated most British troops, not the &quot;little fleet&quot; of civilian boats as in popular imagination.  The evacuation operation was aided by Hitler's &quot;stop order&quot; and overcast weather far more than stopgap efforts like the defense of Calais.  British exaggeration of German air losses and minimization of Allied losses are exposed as war-time propaganda intended to buck-up morale.  Most important, the meaning of the defeat and evacuation are put in proper perspective.  Certainly, the author's point that American willingness to render Lend Lease aid to Britain was influenced by the British saving their army and thereby, the means to stay in the war.  Also, the shock of the defeat in France served to invigorate the British war effort, which had initially been quite sluggish.  After Dunkirk, the British people knew that they were in a fight for national survival.  However, the author's assessment that Dunkirk saw the emergence of Hitler's self-destructive megalomania and hence, marked &quot;the beginning of the end for the Third Reich,&quot; are wide of the mark.  Hitler's megalomania began long before June 1940, and the Third Reich was on borrowed time once Hitler began a global war in September 1939.<br />  This account of Dunkirk is far from comprehensive, because it covers only selected areas at selected times.  Military historians will be disappointed in that British corps, divisions and brigades are rarely referred to in the text and the German side is very thinly detailed.  The encirclement of several French divisions in the Lille pocket, which bought time for the British in Dunkirk, is not even mentioned and the French are mostly depicted as defeatist slackers.  Unfortunately, there is no mention of what happened to the French troops evacuated from Dunkirk or the second BEF that was sent to Cherbourg.  Dunkirk marked the apogee of the German Blitzkrieg, and the accomplishment of wiping over fifty enemy divisions off the chessboard in less than one month should not be underplayed.  Nor should the ingenuity of the British inwithdrawing and rebuilding their army under the worst circumstances.  In many respects, Dunkirk was the &quot;finest hour&quot; of the British and German armies in the Second World War, but for different reasons.the British in withdrawing and rebuilding their army under the worst circumstances.  In many respects, Dunkirk was the &quot;finest hour&quot; of the British and German armies in the Second World War, but for different reasons.	2001-10-14
1814747:US	52533596	RPYPGD87MQZ9X	0921991568	728324776	Normandy 1944: German Military Organization, Combat Power and Organizational Effectiveness	Books	3	29	41	N	N	Interesting but still a bit disappointing	Normandy 1944 provides a highly detailed look into the organization of the German Wehrmacht and SS units that fought in the Normandy Campaign in June-August 1944.  The author has compiled an enormous amount of information on German order of battle by utilizing German strength and loss reports from the German military archives.  Be advised, this book is only for the serious military historian and will be absolutely useless to anyone seeking a general history of the German army in Normandy.<br />  The book consists of two parts: one is a campaign analysis and the other is a detailed description of all German combat formations in the campaign.  The first part has chapters on sources used, German reports terminology (which is actually crucial to this work), German unit organizations, the number of soldiers employed in Normandy, the effects of Allied airpower, German tanks used, German losses, German combat efficiency and unit movements to Normandy.  It is obvious early on that the author has revisionist inclinations and the data that is presented is used to support revisionist conclusions, such as stating that the Anglo-Americans enjoyed a larger numerical superiority over the Germans did than the Soviets had on the Eastern Front.  By and large, the author's revisionist positions appear sound, at least with the facts presented.  The author also affects an attitude of moral superiority based upon his research efforts and tends to swing data with all the dexterity of a meat cleaver.  For example, the author makes a major effort to prove that Allied airpower inflicted only modest battlefield damage on German units and he uses partial facts and extrapolation to estimate losses; &quot;Allied air power caused great destruction to the French rail net.  The destruction of the bridges over the Loire and the Seine was also a great hindrance to road movements.  Otherwise it seems that the destruction caused by air power was modest.&quot;  Curiously, there is no mention of Field Marshal Rommel being badly wounded by Allied fighter-bombers on 17 July 1944; was this just a fluke?  The major increases in German unit-level anti-aircraft protection and fear of the dreaded &quot;jabos&quot; do not seem likely reactions to a modest threat.  While airpower advocates have frequently exaggerated their ability to win or shape campaigns, there is little doubt that the Allied efforts in Normandy hinged on air supremacy.  Indeed, there would have been no Second Front with Allied air superiority in Normandy, so it was decisive.  On German losses however, the author does make valid points that many divisions were not as &quot;destroyed&quot; as other accounts would suggest.<br />  The chapter on German combat efficiency is weird and worthless, beginning by using chunks of Stephen Ambrose' s D-Day as a whipping boy.  The author then shifts to Trevor Dupuy's quantitative models of combat efficiency and then shifts back to idiotic generalizations: &quot;..it could be concluded that 100 Germans would make an even fight against about 150 Allied soldiers.&quot;  However, as Napoleon said, &quot;in war, the moral to the material as three is to one.&quot;  Combat effectiveness is based upon intangibles such as morale, leadership, training, doctrine and experience far more than mere numbers.  Most German combat units in June 1944 had a core of combat-experienced officers and sergeants, whereas few British or US units had prior combat experience.  The Germans also benefited from a proven tactical doctrine, tough realistic training and dependable weapons, while the US units were to learn through the school of hard knocks.  Yet both sides had elite units and not-so-elite units; the US Rangers and 82nd Airborne were certainly better than most of the battered, ill-equipped German infantry divisions in Normandy.  While the US 29th Division might have lacked combat experience it was fully equipped and certainly superior to a thread-bare &quot;static&quot; division like theGerman 709th Infantry Division, which in addition to lacking combat experience, was equipped with a mix of Czech, French and Russian weapons.<br />  The heart of this book lies in the second section, which covers each German division and separate unit in great detail.  However, the detail is more impressive at first glance than after carefully reading through the entries.  There are odd omissions, such as a failure to list who the unit commander was in most cases or to provide a detailed organization chart for the German 7th Armee and its subordinate corps.  There is not even a section on German commanders in Normandy or on defensive doctrine which shaped organization.  Yet one of the greatest omissions is the lack of any maps, which makes it difficult to determine where units were actually located in Normandy.  Although the author consulted the German daily situation maps, his failure to present any graphic depictions is a serious flaw.  If a researcher tries to utilize this volume, as I did, you will quickly run into the realization that this volume is not optimized for research (there is not even an index).  For example, when I tried to assess probable German losses in Operation Jupiter on 10-11 July 1944 it quickly became apparent that only the roughest guess would be possible using this source.  The book is particularly vague about German units and losses in the first few days of the campaign, which frustrates any attempt to assess the effectiveness of Allied airborne operations.<br />  This could have been a superb book, because the author was clearly willing to spend the time to gather a huge amount of data.  Unfortunately, Zetterling has too many axes to grind against other authors and it has blinded him to his task at hand, which is to make this data available without distortion.  This book belongs in any serious Normandy collection but it is far from definitive and not user-friendly.e the German 709th Infantry Division, which in addition to lacking combat experience, was equipped with a mix of Czech, French and Russian weapons.  <br />    The heart of this book lies in the second section, which covers each German division and separate unit in great detail.  However, the detail is more impressive at first glance than after carefully reading through the entries.  There are odd omissions, such as a failure to list who the unit commander was in most cases or to provide a detailed organization chart for the German 7th Armee and its subordinate corps.  There is not even a section on German commanders in Normandy or on defensive doctrine which shaped organization.  Yet one of the greatest omissions is the lack of any maps, which makes it difficult to determine where units were actually located in Normandy.  Although the author consulted the German daily situation maps, his failure to present any graphic depictions is a serious flaw.  If a researcher tries to utilize this volume, as I did, you will quickly run into the realization that this volume is not optimized for research (there is not even an index).  For example, when I tried to assess probable German losses in Operation Jupiter on 10-11 July 1944 it quickly became apparent that only the roughest guess would be possible using this source.  The book is particularly vague about German units and losses in the first few days of the campaign, which frustrates any attempt to assess the effectiveness of Allied airborne operations.  <br />    This could have been a superb book, because the author was clearly willing to spend the time to gather a huge amount of data.  Unfortunately, Zetterling has too many axes to grind against other authors and it has blinded him to his task at hand, which is to make this data available without distortion.  This book belongs in any serious Normandy collection but it is far from definitive and not user-friendly.	2001-10-10
1819019:US	52533596	R3AEMQL259EM7J	0850527163	302606178	Hougoumont (Battleground Europe)	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Interesting, but Limited	Although the fighting around Hougoumont Chateau on 18 June 1815 had a major impact upon the on-going Battle of Waterloo, it usually receives only cursory attention in most accounts of that famous battle.  In this Battleground Europe volume, the fighting around Hougoumont finally gets adequate coverage and Napoleonic enthusiasts should appreciate the uniqueness of this book.  Unfortunately, while the book does provide an spotlight on an interesting aspect of the Battle of Waterloo, the inherent limitations of this volume detract from its historical value.<br />  The book itself consists of thirteen shorts chapters, with the first providing a detail history and layout of Hougoumont Chateau.  Another chapter is used to provide background on the campaign.  Ten chapters cover the British occupation and defense of Hougoumont, including one chapter that covers the immediate aftermath of battle.  A final chapter consists of a tour of Hougoumont today.  Three appendices are included: a detailed hourly chronology, British personalities at Hougoumont and orders of battle on Allied and French troops at Hougoumont.  However selected bibliography displays the limited sources used, including the unreliable Siborne and regimental histories.  One of the authors, Julian Paget, is a retired officer from the Coldstream Guards and he has used regimental records to enhance this account, at least from the British side.  Unfortunately, the French side is greatly neglected, with little information provided on units and almost none on commanders.  Napoleon's brother Jerôme who pushed the attack, and his division commanders, remain ciphers in this account.  Apparently, no French sources were consulted.<br />  The wider issue of the impact of the struggle for Hougoumont on the outcome at Waterloo is addressed obliquely and with some exaggeration.  Napoleon conceived of the attack on Hougoumont as a diversion that he hoped would divert at least British attention, if not reserves, away from his main effort in the center.  This concept was tactically sound, and was originally only supposed to employ one division of the three in the French II Corps.  It was a combination of Jerôme's escalation of his minor role in the battle into a full-fledged but uncoordinated corps attack and Napoleon's inability to reign him in, that really hurt the French cause.  The author's cite Napoleon's failure to initially use his massed artillery against Hougoumont as a &quot;mistake&quot; but they fail to realize that (A) Napoleon would not waste his massed artillery reserve against a fortified target that was not his main effort and which initially only held a few hundred skirmishers, (B) Jerôme had plenty of II Corps and divisional artillery available to support his own attacks and (C) the muddy, wooded and cultivated terrain around Hougoumont inhibited rapid deployment of French artillery in a close support role against the chateau.  Actually, Wellington made a significant mistake by not deploying at least one battery within the grounds of Hougoumont since grapeshot would have inflicted huge losses on the French infantry as they crossed the open ground to the south.  British artillery supporting Hougoumont was deployed too far to the rear to employ anything but solid shot or howitzer shells.  Whether or not French 12 pounder solid shot could have breached the walls of Hougoumont is also open to debate.<br />  This book is an interesting read because it offers new perspectives on a well-known battle.  Unfortunately, the author's predilection is to provide an glory-tinged narrative of one of his regiment's most famous actions - and at that limited objective he succeeds.  Yet the wider goal of providing a fresh and balanced account of this crucial side-show remains unfulfilled.his main effort in the center.  This concept was tactically sound, and was originally only supposed to employ one division of the three in the French II Corps.  It was a combination of Jerôme's escalation of his minor role in the battle into a full-fledged but uncoordinated corps attack and Napoleon's inability to reign him in, that really hurt the French cause.  The author's cite Napoleon's failure to initially use his massed artillery against Hougoumont as a &quot;mistake&quot; but they fail to realize that (A) Napoleon would not waste his massed artillery reserve against a fortified target that was not his main effort and which initially only held a few hundred skirmishers, (B) Jerôme had plenty of II Corps and divisional artillery available to support his own attacks and (C) the muddy, wooded and cultivated terrain around Hougoumont inhibited rapid deployment of French artillery in a close support role against the chateau.  Actually, Wellington made a significant mistake by not deploying at least one battery within the grounds of Hougoumont since grapeshot would have inflicted huge losses on the French infantry as they crossed the open ground to the south.  British artillery supporting Hougoumont was deployed too far to the rear to employ anything but solid shot or howitzer shells.  Whether or not French 12 pounder solid shot could have breached the walls of Hougoumont is also open to debate.<br />    This book is an interesting read because it offers new perspectives on a well-known battle.  Unfortunately, the author's predilection is to provide an glory-tinged narrative of one of his regiment's most famous actions - and at that limited objective he succeeds.  Yet the wider goal of providing a fresh and balanced account of this crucial side-show remains unfulfilled.	2001-10-04
1820275:US	52533596	R1CBR2OU1J76T8	0850526698	771249551	Gallipoli (Battleground Europe)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	A Major Disappointment	This book is a major disappointment and it is primarily because of a misleading title (which does not read &quot;Walking Gallipoli&quot; on the cover).  I assumed that this book was a standard title in the Battleground Europe series that would first cover the campaign in some detail and then provide a section on touring the modern battlefield.  Instead, this book entirely consists of a battlefield walk made in 1988 and supplemented in 1998, with only the barest attention paid to the actual campaign. While the author does cover some incidents in detail, the primary focus is on the terrain walk.<br />  This book is 215 pages of oftentimes rather boring travelogue on the sights and smells of the contemporary Gallipoli battlefield.  I was disappointed that interesting incidents such as the loss of most of the 1/5th Norfolk Battalion or the decimation of the Australian 10th Light Horse were either ignored or given short shrift.  The author promises to offer insights into the many non-ANZAC participants in the campaign but says very little about the French expeditionary corps.  For historians, this book which lacks a chronology, order of battle or other data, will seem a waste.<br />  The one value of this book over other accounts of Gallipoli is that it offers better insights into the effects of the terrain on the campaign.  The author covers virtually every nook and cranny, every gully and hill, in great detail and supplemented with many then/now photographs.  One finishes with the realization that the terrain totally favored the defense and that the failure to evaluate the terrain properly was a major cause of the ultimate British defeat.  The one decent landing site - at Suvla Bay - was wasted.  Unlike the Western Front, there was no &quot;rear area&quot; for Commonwealth troops at Gallipoli and even corps commanders had to live in the same trenches as their privates.  There was no &quot;chateau generalship&quot; at Gallipoli, except perhaps for the commander of the entire force, Sir Ian Hamilton.<br />  This book is useful for evaluating the campaign from the terrain perspective, but it fails totally as military history.  Nor is this book particularly useful as a battlefield guild, since it is far too long-winded and the maps only refer to the 1915 battlefield, with no reference to modern cemeteries or monuments.f the entire force, Sir Ian Hamilton.  <br />    This book is useful for evaluating the campaign from the terrain perspective, but it fails totally as military history.  Nor is this book particularly useful as a battlefield guild, since it is far too long-winded and the maps only refer to the 1915 battlefield, with no reference to modern cemeteries or monuments.	2001-10-03
1821393:US	52533596	R35ZQHXZ3LFVZB	1841580619	803592381	Last Corsair: The Story of the Emden	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A Romantic Account of the Emden's Career	The Last Corsair is a solid account of the raiding cruise of the German light cruiser Emden in the first three months of the First World.  Alone and outnumbered, this lone German cruiser conducted a bold hit and run campaign against Allied ships in the Indian Ocean under the undaunted leadership of its taciturn captain, Karl von M&uuml;ller.  However after sinking sixteen merchantmen, a Russian light cruiser, a French destroyer and bombarding the oil storage tanks at Madras, the Emden's luck ran out on 9 November 1914 when it was caught and destroyed by the Australian cruiser Sydney.<br />  Dan Van Der Vat's account makes ample use of primary sources but it is very readable, and both general readers and historians will find it useful, if not definitive.  The book briefly covers Emden's pre-war career in the German East Asia squadron, then spends about one-third of the text covering the period September-October 1914 when Emden was most active in raiding and concludes with her destruction.  A second part of the book, some seventy pages in length, covers the remarkable escape of the Emden's landing party and some other individuals back to Germany. Even those readers familiar with the Emden's cruise will be interested in the details of those sailors who refused to surrender and made it back, as well as the treatment of those who were captured.<br />  In dubbing M&uuml;ller the &quot;last corsair,&quot; the author paints a romantic picture of the German captain as a gentleman-warrior who (mostly) fought by the rules in an independent style of combat that was fast disappearing.  Most of this romanticizing about M&uuml;ller and the Emden was based upon wartime recollections of liberated British sailors who rarely, if ever, met M&uuml;ller.  My impression was that M&uuml;ller a talented skipper, but also a remote, cold fish who fought by the rules and who was fortunate enough not to command as the war became less &quot;noble.&quot;  Furthermore, the author's conclusion that the &quot;Emden [had] the distinction of being the most successful undisguised commerce-raiding surface warship, or cruiser, of modern times,&quot; is a bit much.  The German pocket battleship Scheer conducted a five-month cruise in 1940-1941 that bagged 16 ships of 99,000 tons and made it back to Germany, unlike Emden.<br />  One interesting aspect of the book is the author's discussion of how Germany's pre-war naval doctrine served to doom the Asiatic Squadron.  German naval focus was on short-distance missions in the North Sea and cruisers were designed as short-range units to support the battleship fleet.  Since German cruisers were designed to shield their own battle-line from enemy light units, they relied on firepower from the German battleships and lacked heavy armament of their own.  The Asiatic Squadron in China was the only overseas-based unit of the German Navy in 1914 and its warships were totally unsuited for independent warfare.  Every Allied cruiser was faster and more heavily armed than Emden.  Nevertheless, the superior Allied forces in Asia were spread out conducting many missions in the first few months of the war and little effort was made to catch Emden.  This changed when Emden began a series of brazen attacks off India's coast.<br />  This account is highly readable and offers interesting details of the Emden saga.  However, the author spends little effort to put this cruise into historical perspective in relation to other German raiders and tends to assign a romantic interpretation to what was in fact, part of Germany's cold-blooded attempt at European domination in 1914.;Emden [had] the distinction of being the most successful undisguised commerce-raiding surface warship, or cruiser, of modern times,&quot; is a bit much.  The German pocket battleship Scheer conducted a five-month cruise in 1940-1941 that bagged 16 ships of 99,000 tons and made it back to Germany, unlike Emden.  <br />       One interesting aspect of the book is the author's discussion of how Germany's pre-war naval doctrine served to doom the Asiatic Squadron.  German naval focus was on short-distance missions in the North Sea and cruisers were designed as short-range units to support the battleship fleet.  Since German cruisers were designed to shield their own battle-line from enemy light units, they relied on firepower from the German battleships and lacked heavy armament of their own.  The Asiatic Squadron in China was the only overseas-based unit of the German Navy in 1914 and its warships were totally unsuited for independent warfare.  Every Allied cruiser was faster and more heavily armed than Emden.  Nevertheless, the superior Allied forces in Asia were spread out conducting many missions in the first few months of the war and little effort was made to catch Emden.  This changed when Emden began a series of brazen attacks off India's coast.<br />     This account is highly readable and offers interesting details of the Emden saga.  However, the author spends little effort to put this cruise into historical perspective in relation to other German raiders and tends to assign a romantic interpretation to what was in fact, part of Germany's cold-blooded attempt at European domination in 1914.	2001-10-02
1824490:US	52533596	R17G1TXT2UFB6N	1580970567	752166802	Hill 112: Battles of the Odon (Battleground Europe)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Excellent Operational Account	In Hill 112 Tim Saunders focuses on the fighting around that non-descript small hill southwest of Caen in France, during the period 25 June-4 August 1944 when the British were struggling to break out of the Normandy bridgehead.  The Germans were equally desperate to contain this breakout.  In that six-week period, the British and Germans shed considerable blood in order to gain the prize of Hill 112.  Although the hill itself was a rather modest elevation, it did offer a valuable position for forward observers who could direct artillery fire upon the exposed surrounding lower ground.  Possession of Hill 112 would allow the British to cross the Odon and Orne rivers and thereby outflank the German defenses in Caen.<br /> The first brief chapter covers the period 27-28 June 1944 when, as part of Operation EPSOM, the British 11th Armored Division crossed the Odon River and seized Hill 112 in a coup de main.  Although the British succeeded in seizing the hill at modest cost, German counterattacks soon forced them to abandon the hill.  The Germans re-occupied Hill 112 with the powerful 10th SS Panzer Division and dug in.<br /> The bulk of the book, some 104 pages, covers the British attempt to seize Hill 112 and surrounding terrain in Operation JUPITER on 10-11 July 1944.  The British committed the 43rd Wessex Division, a pre-war territorial unit, along with two tank brigades.  British artillery support was massive, with two corps artillery groups and HMS Rodney's 16-inch guns supplementing divisional artillery, for a total of 20 artillery battalions and 416 guns supporting a single division-size attack.  After a 15-minute preparation that disrupted the front-line German infantry, the British attacked at dawn and quickly rolled up the German security zone positions.  Sensing success, British commanders pushed reserve units up through their own first echelon in a rush to exploit the apparent confusion and seize Hill 112.  Unfortunately, British infantry leaders were quick to announce objectives secure without really conducting thorough mopping-up actions.  As the author correctly points out, there is a world of difference between &quot;seize&quot; and &quot;secure&quot; in the military lexicon.  The result was that the Germans quickly regrouped, with infantry and armor moving up to counterattack.  Amazingly, an entire German Tiger tank battalion was in reserve only 2 kilometers behind Hill 112 and this unit quickly moved in to stop the British attack.  However, the British kept pouring in more men, material and artillery fire, with neither side really controlling the crest of Hill 112.  Suffering heavily as well, the Germans were forced to commit more and more of their precious armor to prevent a breakthrough.  Eventually, most of the 2nd SS Panzer Corps was committed to stem the British offensive.  After much heavy fighting, the British finally withdrew from their tenuous positions around the hill.  Battered but victorious, the Germans still held the ground.  However, the battle in Normandy was gradually shifting against the Germans and they withdrew from Hill 112 in August.<br /><br /> Numerous excellent photos and superb maps complement the text.  A British order of battle is provided, but none for the Germans.  The account is balanced and fair, with considerable detail from the German perspective.  Overall, this is an excellent study of a division-level attack.k to announce objectives secure without really conducting thorough mopping-up actions.  As the author correctly points out, there is a world of difference between &quot;seize&quot; and &quot;secure&quot; in the military lexicon.  The result was that the Germans quickly regrouped, with infantry and armor moving up to counterattack.  Amazingly, an entire German Tiger tank battalion was in reserve only 2 kilometers behind Hill 112 and this unit quickly moved in to stop the British attack.  However, the British kept pouring in more men, material and artillery fire, with neither side really controlling the crest of Hill 112.  Suffering heavily as well, the Germans were forced to commit more and more of their precious armor to prevent a breakthrough.  Eventually, most of the 2nd SS Panzer Corps was committed to stem the British offensive.  After much heavy fighting, the British finally withdrew from their tenuous positions around the hill.  Battered but victorious, the Germans still held the ground.  However, the battle in Normandy was gradually shifting against the Germans and they withdrew from Hill 112 in August.   <BR>  <BR>  <BR> Numerous excellent photos and superb maps complement the text.  A British order of battle is provided, but none for the Germans.  The account is balanced and fair, with considerable detail from the German perspective.  Overall, this is an excellent study of a division-level attack.	2001-09-29
1832201:US	52533596	RAVSBEGVHQ61X	1841761966	468318812	The Indian Army 1914–1947 (Elite)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Interesting, but Superficial	Most people are not aware of how much combat experience the Indian Army gained in the 20th Century, mostly due to its involvement under British control in the First and Second World Wars.  This volume of Osprey's Elite series offers a glimpse, albeit succinct, into the oft-neglected Indian Army of the world wars.  While this volume does provide excellent plates on uniform details, as one would expect from Osprey, the text falls far short of the daunting task of recounting 33 years of Indian military history.  Indeed, the author's tendency to meander around the subject provides for a very lop-sided account, in which much space is wasted on minor subjects of interest to the author and other subjects of more general interest are virtually ignored.<br /> The Indian army's role in the First World War is covered in ten pages, but after maps, photographs and charts are subtracted there is actually only 7 pages.  Most disappointing is the author's fixation on the Battle of Megiddo in September 1918, spending several pages on a high-level narrative of the battle (for which there is already an Osprey Campaign title), with little discussion about what Indian troops per se actually did in the battle.  The vital participation of the Indian corps in blunting the German Ypres attacks in 1914-1915 is glossed over in a few sentences.  Indian participation in the African, Gallipoli and Mesopotamian campaigns is given even shorter shrift.  Granted, the size of the volume does not give the author much space to elaborate, but to devote so much space to one campaign and neglect virtually all the others presents a very lop-sided account.  Some 9 ½ pages are spent covering the interwar period, and unburdened by the need to discuss campaigns, the author is largely successful in painting the evolution of the Indian Army after the First World.  However, the true weaknesses of the Indian Army at the outset of the Second World War are only hinted at in this text; while the author mentions the lack of motorization and inadequate artillery, the fact is that the Indian Army in 1939 was still essentially an infantry-based colonial force.  Anti-tank units, antiaircraft, engineers, signal units and logistic units were virtually non-existent.  In fact, British policy had inhibited the development of the Indian Army as an all-arms force in order to undermine its ability to act as other than part of the British military effort.  The author does not really address tactics and doctrine, but decades of primary orientation toward frontier patrolling and internal security duties also undermined the ability of the Indian Army to compete in battle against first rate opponents.  For these reasons, the British tended to commit the Indian Army mostly to fight less modern opponents like the Turks or the Japanese, rather than the first-class Germans.<br /> Only 8 pages are used to discuss the Indian Army in the Second World War and again, the author's digressions - in this case to discuss the Battle of Meiktila - dominates this section. The stalwart 4th Indian Division's actions in North Africa are barely mentioned, nor the Indian participation in the grueling Italian campaign or the initial stages of the Burma and Malaya campaigns.  Instead, the author has a chart which depicts all the Indian Divisions and where they served, but not which campaigns or the dates of participation.  This is the poorest section of the book, and Indian casualties are not even listed.  The desertion of about 20,000 Indian POWs to serve in the Japanese Army is briefly mentioned, but the 4,000 were volunteered for Wehrmacht service are ignored.<br />  The best section of the book is the 16 pages that cover the Indian Army, branch by branch.  Of course the predominant infantry and cavalry receive most of the attention, but informative sections are also provided on artillery, pioneers and auxiliary and support units.  However one odd note is the author's interpretation of the effect of the 1947 Partition upon the armies of the princely states, where he implies that there was problems in the transfer of three states: Jammu &amp; Kashmir, Junagadh and Hyderabad.  The author states, &quot;In Junagadh and particularly in Hyderabad, which had Muslim rulers but largely Hindu populations, some force was needed before the disturbances could be quelled and peace established.&quot;  In fact, these three states had elected - as was their right under the partition agreement - to remain independent entities, but India used armed force to coerce them into union.  The Indian government used the excuse of &quot;internal civil disorder&quot; to invade Hyderabad with a full armored division in September 1948 and after inflicting 1,200 casualties on the local forces, the state was forced into union with India.<br />  Overall, this volume is useful but far from comprehensive even for a summary work.  Unfortunately, the author set his sights too narrowly and thus the reader receives only a lop-sided view of the subject.  Even the question of whether or not the Indian Army of the period merits inclusion in the &quot;elite&quot; series is evaded.947 Partition upon the armies of the princely states, where he implies that there was problems in the transfer of three states: Jammu &amp; Kashmir, Junagadh and Hyderabad.  The author states, &quot;In Junagadh and particularly in Hyderabad, which had Muslim rulers but largely Hindu populations, some force was needed before the disturbances could be quelled and peace established.&quot;  In fact, these three states had elected - as was their right under the partition agreement - to remain independent entities, but India used armed force to coerce them into union.  The Indian government used the excuse of &quot;internal civil disorder&quot; to invade Hyderabad with a full armored division in September 1948 and after inflicting 1,200 casualties on the local forces, the state was forced into union with India.  <br />     Overall, this volume is useful but far from comprehensive even for a summary work.  Unfortunately, the author set his sights too narrowly and thus the reader receives only a lop-sided view of the subject.  Even the question of whether or not the Indian Army of the period merits inclusion in the &quot;elite&quot; series is evaded.	2001-09-22
1836393:US	52533596	R3GLNAJRCGEG4I	0935553487	226702988	Black Cross / Red Star: The Air War Over the Eastern Front, Vol. 1:  Operation Barbarossa, 1941	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Sheds Much New Light on the War in the East	Although there are many books that cover the German invasion of Russia in 1941, few deal with the massive air operations in any detail.  This book provides an excellent campaign narrative of the six-month struggle for air supremacy in Russia during June-December 1941.  The authors are to be applauded for their attention to detail and their scrupulous objectivity.<br /> The book is organized in 31 short chapters, which generally cover a specific area and period in the campaign, like air operations over the Baltic States in July-August 1941.  There are three introductory chapters that cover the doctrine, training, tactics and equipment of both the German Luftwaffe and the Soviet VVS.  Numerous relevant photographs, many of which have not been published before, enrich each chapter.  Additionally, there are six maps and six excellent appendices (Luftwaffe and VVS organization, orders of battle, rank structure and awards).  Chapters usually begin with an operational overview of ground operations and objectives in a given area, followed by accounts of air actions in that area on a virtual day-by-day basis.  First hand accounts are used to describe fighter engagements and bomber attacks.<br /> The first day of Operation Barbarossa is covered in great detail, much more than I have seen anywhere else.  Although there are digressions on minor theaters of action, such as the Siege of Odessa and the Arctic Front, most of the focus is on the three main theaters of action, in north, central and south Russia.  The authors skillfully weave together German and Soviet records to produce as objective an account of the air battles as possible.  Some striking aspects of the book include the shockingly deficient level of Soviet pre-war flight training; many Soviet pilots went to front-line squadrons with only 10 flight hours accrued, versus an average of 250 hours for new Luftwaffe pilots. Soviet pilots were further disadvantaged by obsolete aircraft, faulty doctrine and lack of combat experience, whereas the German pilots had plenty of experience and flew excellent aircraft like the Me-109E.  Anyone who wonders how the Luftwaffe could have so many pilots with 50 or more &quot;kills&quot; should read this books account of the slaughter of hundreds of Soviet bombers during the first weeks of war.  The VVS seemed to have an endless supply of SB and DB-3 light bombers that it continued to send in broad daylight and without escort to attack German ground units.  The Luftwaffe experten shot them down by the bushel.  The VVS was also slow to disperse its aircraft and develop low-level defenses and consequently, Luftwaffe bombers continued to catch large numbers of Soviet aircraft on the ground even three weeks into the campaign.  Other interesting aspects include details on the Soviet strategic raids on Berlin, the German strategic raids on Moscow and some industrial targets, and the Soviet predilection for &quot;taran&quot; (air-to-air ramming tactics).  Soviet propaganda tended to exaggeration &quot;taran&quot; tactics, but the fact is that it was not unusual; on the first day of Barbarossa alone the Luftwaffe lost 14 aircraft to ramming.<br /> Between June and December 1941, the Luftwaffe destroyed about 17,000 Soviet aircraft at a cost to themselves of 2,000 aircraft, but the Soviets were able to rebuild their air power in a short period despite these horrendous losses.  The authors conclude, &quot;the predominant tactical doctrine of the Luftwaffe and the lack of equipment to undertake a strategic bomber offensive proved to be the fatal flaws of Operation Barbarossa.&quot;  Additionally, the authors cite the role of airpower as particularly decisive in the Moscow campaign, where the declining strength of the Luftwaffe and its ability to contribute effective air cover or ground support contributed to the German ground offensive running out of steam.  Massive Soviet air reinforcements to the Moscow sector then tipped the balance and allowed the Sovietarmy to roll up the over-extended Germans.  Finally, the Luftwaffe shifted air reinforcements to this sector from other areas and helped to prevent the collapse of ArmeeGruppe Center.<br /> Black Cross/Red Star is an invaluable book for military historians and future volumes should add to its value.  However this book is ill-suited for general readers who lack knowledge of the Eastern Front, since the book is loaded with German and Russian military jargon, and there is little discussion of wider aspects of the campaign (the participation of German allies such as Romania, Finland and Italy is mentioned only in cursory fashion).  Readers familiar with the Eastern Front will find this book a feast of information which offers new perspectives on the Russo-German War.oviet army to roll up the over-extended Germans.  Finally, the Luftwaffe shifted air reinforcements to this sector from other areas and helped to prevent the collapse of ArmeeGruppe Center.  <br /> Black Cross/Red Star is an invaluable book for military historians and future volumes should add to its value.  However this book is ill-suited for general readers who lack knowledge of the Eastern Front, since the book is loaded with German and Russian military jargon, and there is little discussion of wider aspects of the campaign (the participation of German allies such as Romania, Finland and Italy is mentioned only in cursory fashion).  Readers familiar with the Eastern Front will find this book a feast of information which offers new perspectives on the Russo-German War.	2001-09-18
1839307:US	52533596	R1WZ1YN60P09L8	1580800386	858058989	Company Commander: The Classic Infantry Memoir of World War II	Books	5	92	100	N	N	A Classic War Memoir	Captain Charles B. MacDonald first commanded I Company, 3-23rd IN, 2nd ID from October 1944 to January 1945 and later G Company, 2-23rd IN from March to May 1945. This memoir was written a few years after the war when recollections were still sharp and resulted in a very detailed account of what it was like to take command of a line infantry company and lead it into battle. This book is a must-read for all army officers who seek to command at company-level and it is also informative for military historians as well.<br />  In comparison to the more recent Band of Brothers, ostensibly a company-level account of E Company, 506th PIR's actions during the same period, Charles MacDonald's book is clearly superior. In fact, Company Commander is everything Band of Brothers is not: accurate, objective and informative. Unlike BOB, MacDonald does not claim that the companies he commanded were anything special or that he demonstrated heroic leadership (he did win the silver star in the Battle of the Bulge). Instead, the author is very honest, admitting his apprehension and anxiety about commanding infantry on the front line. Although there is some tension with battalion and regimental headquarters, mostly about ill-considered orders and creature comforts, there is not the character assassination that is so prevalent in BOB; Macdonald was career army and he wasn't going to make points by ridiculing superiors.<br />  MacDonald arrived as a replacement and took command of I Company just as the unit was conducting a relief-in-place of another US unit in some captured positions in the Siegfried Line in the Ardennes. While civilian readers may find the first 100 pages devoted to this &quot;quiet time&quot; to be dull, military readers will not. MacDonald does a superb job describing the nuts-and-bolts of a relief-in-place in a difficult position that is under enemy observation and then the daily grind to improve the position. Readers who believe that US units in the Ardennes in the fall of 1944 had it easy should reconsider. MacDonald's unit was under constant mortar and sniper fire, poor weather caused much sickness among the troops and supplies were limited. On 17 December 1944, MacDonald's battalion was hastily shifted to blunt the massive German Ardennes offensive but the 12th SS Panzer Division overran his company. Fortunately, losses in MacDonald's company were relatively light and when the unit was reformed it helped to stop the northern German pincer on the Elsenborn Ridge. In January 1945, the author was wounded while participating in the counterattack to retake St. Vith and spent two months recovering.<br />  Returning to the 23rd Infantry in March 1945, MacDonald was given G Company and he led this unit in the final dash across Germany to Leipzig. MacDonald ended the war in Czechoslovakia. The final three weeks of the war seem a bit blurry here, compared to the earlier slow pace in the defense, and this is the only aspect of the author's narrative which is a bit choppy. There is a tremendous amount of combat wisdom in this account, although the author admits mistakes. During the first day of the Bulge, MacDonald's unit - which had very little ammunition, limited fire support and no information on the friendly or enemy situation - was ordered to launch a hasty attack to relieve a trapped US unit. MacDonald's account of his briefing to his lieutenants in the dark with a wet map is striking: &quot;I wondered if I could have drawn any worse conditions under which to issue my first attack order.&quot; The attack was cancelled, but then MacDonald's company was ordered to hold off the advance guard of the 12th SS Panzer with only 3 bazooka rounds and no mines. The result was inevitable.<br />  This account offers some tactical points about US ground operations in 1944-5 of interest to historians. First, US units often seemed to move to contact the enemy with minimal regard for reconnaissance and US commanders seemed to prefer hasty over deliberate assaults. Many US losses seemed directly attributable to this tendency to launch hasty, poorly coordinated attacks with inadequate forces. Second, US units often did not make good use of terrain. In the defense, MacDonald's company often had to occupy non-key terrain that lacked cover and concealment. Occupying such exposed positions merely to maintain contact with the enemy resulted in unnecessary casualties. US units would have been better off to occupy key terrain further back from the line of contact and leave only small covering units in direct contact. Interestingly, MacDonald's unit did not use LP/OPs at night. Finally, the decimation of US infantry units in the Second World War as portrayed by modern author's such as Stephen Ambrose is demonstrably false. Although MacDonald's company suffered many wounded and sick during the fall of 1944, he did not have one soldier killed in action in his first two months on the front line. Even in the Battle of the Bulge, the number of infantrymen actually killed in combat was relatively small. Soldiers were far more likely to be wounded or evacuated for pneumonia than to be killed outright, and those men usually returned in weeks or months. American infantry units were never &quot;bled white&quot; by combat losses as some accounts imply by exaggerating the body count. Overall, Company Commander is a class of its own as a memoir, since a capable historian who actually experienced the events described wrote it.sty over deliberate assaults. Many US losses seemed directly attributable to this tendency to launch hasty, poorly coordinated attacks with inadequate forces. Second, US units often did not make good use of terrain. In the defense, MacDonald's company often had to occupy non-key terrain that lacked cover and concealment. Occupying such exposed positions merely to maintain contact with the enemy resulted in unnecessary casualties. US units would have been better off to occupy key terrain further back from the line of contact and leave only small covering units in direct contact. Interestingly, MacDonald's unit did not use LP/OPs at night. Finally, the decimation of US infantry units in the Second World War as portrayed by modern author's such as Stephen Ambrose is demonstrably false. Although MacDonald's company suffered many wounded and sick during the fall of 1944, he did not have one soldier killed in action in his first two months on the front line. Even in the Battle of the Bulge, the number of infantrymen actually killed in combat was relatively small. Soldiers were far more likely to be wounded or evacuated for pneumonia than to be killed outright, and those men usually returned in weeks or months. American infantry units were never &quot;bled white&quot; by combat losses as some accounts imply by exaggerating the body count. Overall, Company Commander is a class of its own as a memoir, since a capable historian who actually experienced the events described wrote it.	2001-09-15
1850144:US	52533596	R2PLPYMZPGJ5JQ	074322454X	867939499	Band of Brothers: E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normandy to Hitler's Eagle's Nest	Books	1	362	586	N	N	Errors, Exaggerations & Vicious Slander	For readers without much background in history in general or the military in particular, Band of Brothers will probably seem like a heroic saga of male-bonding in combat. However, for those readers with knowledge of the subject, this poorly-researched book offers little more than the standard episode of the old TV series COMBAT! Author Stephen Ambrose, who favors oral history over meticulous research, used his interviews with selected Second World War veterans from E Company, 506th PIR, 101st Airborne as the basis for recounting the tales of an airborne company in combat in 1944-1945. Most of the book focuses on Richard Winters, who commanded the company in Normandy and Holland. Private David Webster, a cynical self-proclaimed intellectual also wrote a book of his experiences in E Company, from which Ambrose has borrowed liberally [...]. Interviews with other members in the unit fill in gaps, but Winters and Webster are two of the primary protagonists in the story. Unfortunately from the viewpoint of historical accuracy, the book is hopelessly riddled with errors, exaggerations and vicious slander.<br />  First, let me address the errors, which are mostly due to lack of research on the author's part. Ambrose claims that the troop transport to England \\"carried 5,000 men from the 506th\\" and how it was a cramped voyage. Yet Shelby Stanton's authoritative US Army Order of Battle in World War Two, states that the 506th had only 2,029 men. Ambrose has his usual problems with nomenclature and names; Germans used 81mm not \\"80mm\\" mortars. A British officer rescued by E Company is identified as \\"Colonel O. Dobey,\\" when it was actually LTC David Dobie. The German officer who surrendered to the unit at Berchtesgaden in 1945 is described as the 35 year-old \\"General Theodor Tolsdorf, commander of LXXXII Corps,\\" when it was actually a 36 year-old Colonel Tolsdorf who commanded the 340th VG Division. At Berchtesgaden, Winters supposedly finds a German Major General \\"Kastner\\" who committed suicide, but there is no record of such an officer in the Wehrmacht or SS. Nor does Ambrose do much better with unit identifications and he claims that in the Battle of the Bulge, the 101st Airborne Division, \\"had won its head-to-head battles with a dozen crack German armored and infantry divisions.\\" Actually, the Germans only committed elements of five divisions to the Bastogne fighting and they were hardly crack troops. Ambrose's statement also ignores the fact that the 101st was fighting with considerable help from the US 9th and 10th Armored Divisions in Bastogne. Finally, readers may be shocked to learn that the US 3rd Infantry Division actually beat the 506th PIR in the race to Berchtesgaden by several hours. Readers should check Clay Blair's well-researched Ridgeway's Paratroopers. These errors may seem minor to some, but they demonstrate a lack of research that means the whole narrative is suspect.<br />  When it comes to exaggeration, Ambrose pulls out the stops. All enemy tanks are referred to as \\"Tigers,\\" but only 5.3% of the German tanks in Normandy in June 1944 were Tigers. All enemy troops are referred to as \\"elite,\\" such as SS or paratroops, even though German records indicate that the 506th mostly fought ordinary Wehrmacht units. According to Winters, E Company was always better than the other companies in the 506th and Ambrose vouches that, \\"there was no better light infantry company in the Army.\\" How about the Rangers at Point du Hoc? Since Ambrose makes no effort to compare E Company with any other similar unit (e.g. did it kill more Germans than other units?), this assertion is asinine. It gets worse. Ambrose asserts that Winters \\"is contemptuous of exaggeration,\\" but the following account of E Company in Normandy flatly exposes this as a lie: \\"So was Winters [outstanding]. He made one right decision after another &#8230;he personally killed more Germans and took more risks than anyone else.\\" So Winters killed more Germans than the company machine-gunners? He took more risks than the men on point? Interestingly, Winters was never wounded.<br />  The worst aspect of the book is the vicious slander campaign, which is pure Winters. Winters attacks his superiors, starting with MGN Taylor, Commander of the 101st, then COL Sink who was commander of the 506th PIR, then LTC Strayer his battalion commander and CPT Sobel, the first commander of E Company. Taylor, who was one of the best US Army generals of the 20th Century and later Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under President Kennedy, is viciously attacked for being on \\"Christmas Vacation\\" during the Battle of the Bulge and for ordering an attack that \\"had the flavor of an ego trip.\\" Winters tells Ambrose that \\"I don't want to be fair,\\" about Taylor. Ergo, he doesn't want to be honest. Sink, who commanded the 506th for the entire war is derided as \\"Bourbon Bob.\\" LTC Strayer is virtually omitted from this account, even though he commanded from Normandy to VE Day. Ambrose misleads the reader when he states that Winters became the battalion commander on 8 March 1945 - in fact the switch was only temporary and Strayer returned. Winters reserves special hatred for CPT Sobel, the man who trained E Company stateside and who is labeled a petty tyrant. Winters recounts a chance encounter with Sobel later in the war, when Winters outranked his former commander, and he proceeded to humiliate him in front of enlisted men from E Company. Classy. The slander campaign is also directed at other officers who succeeded Winters as commander of E Company, most of the lieutenants, staff officers, \\"Air Force slobs in England,\\" (who were dying by the hundreds over Germany in burning bombers), the British, etc. It's pretty sickening after awhile. The American paratroopers of the Second World War deserve a far more accurate and honest account of their accomplishments, with just recognition of all deserving participants, than a slanted account that distorts the record.y machine-gunners? He took more risks than the men on point? Interestingly, Winters was never wounded.<br />  The worst aspect of the book is the vicious slander campaign, which is pure Winters. Winters attacks his superiors, starting with MGN Taylor, Commander of the 101st, then COL Sink who was commander of the 506th PIR, then LTC Strayer his battalion commander and CPT Sobel, the first commander of E Company. Taylor, who was one of the best US Army generals of the 20th Century and later Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under President Kennedy, is viciously attacked for being on \\"Christmas Vacation\\" during the Battle of the Bulge and for ordering an attack that \\"had the flavor of an ego trip.\\" Winters tells Ambrose that \\"I don't want to be fair,\\" about Taylor. Ergo, he doesn't want to be honest. Sink, who commanded the 506th for the entire war is derided as \\"Bourbon Bob.\\" LTC Strayer is virtually omitted from this account, even though he commanded from Normandy to VE Day. Ambrose misleads the reader when he states that Winters became the battalion commander on 8 March 1945 - in fact the switch was only temporary and Strayer returned. Winters reserves special hatred for CPT Sobel, the man who trained E Company stateside and who is labeled a petty tyrant. Winters recounts a chance encounter with Sobel later in the war, when Winters outranked his former commander, and he proceeded to humiliate him in front of enlisted men from E Company. Classy. The slander campaign is also directed at other officers who succeeded Winters as commander of E Company, most of the lieutenants, staff officers, \\"Air Force slobs in England,\\" (who were dying by the hundreds over Germany in burning bombers), the British, etc. It's pretty sickening after awhile. The American paratroopers of the Second World War deserve a far more accurate and honest account of their accomplishments, with just recognition of all deserving participants, than a slanted account that distorts the record.cord.	2001-09-05
1858632:US	52533596	R1NMQSZFOBITPL	185532847X	148394872	Quebec 1759 (Order of Battle)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Superb Reference Work	Osprey's Order of Battle series offers considerably more detail than its standard Campaign series format. In Quebec 1759, Ren&eacute; Chartrand provides his usual high quality level of historical research, as well as unique insights into this famous campaign that determined the fate of New France. The volume begins with eight pages that provide the strategic background to the campaign and outline the opposing French and British plans. However, the heart of the volume consists of 49 pages spent detailing all the various French and British units that participated in the campaign. Each line infantry battalion receives one full page of coverage, listing its strength, organization and recent history. Minor units, such as the French colonial cavalry, various militias, Royal Marines, artillery and engineers also receive similar coverage. For anyone interested in the Quebec campaign, the order of battle information provided herein will be indispensable. There is also considerable information on the unit commanders interwoven throughout this section. The campaign itself is covered in the final 30 pages and Chartrand's summary is flawless. Many minor logistical and administrative issues are addressed, in addition to the tactical maneuvering. Chartrand's account of the final climactic Battle on the Plains of Abraham is the best that I have ever read concerning that action. A large foldout map of the battlefield is also provided. This is a superb piece of military historical research.	2001-08-29
1863509:US	52533596	R2K64NROY97NVO	1841761915	777109523	The Seven Years' War (Essential Histories)	Books	4	27	34	N	N	A Good Summary, but Tainted by anti-Colonial Bias	Osprey's new &quot;Essential Histories&quot; attempts to expand from its more narrowly-focused campaign and men-at-arms titles to provide a broader overview of major conflicts. In the Seven Years War (1756-1763), Daniel Marston has written a succinct but valuable overview of what was arguably the first world war. American readers, who are more familiar with this conflict as the French and Indian War, will appreciate this volume for the perspectives it provides in tying together all the various campaigns around the world. Major chapters include a background to the war and a brief overview of the military resources available to all sides (although it ignores the military resources of the Iroquois Confederacy). The bulk of the volume consists of a 61-page summary of the war, broken down in annual sections, that are further subdivided into regional (North America, Western Europe, Central Europe, India) headings. This is an excellent organizational structure, which increases the quick-reference value of the book. There are also short follow-up chapters that address the economic costs of the war and its political ramifications. A detailed bibliography lists primary and secondary sources used. Overall, this volume is a good piece of scholarship that will allow readers to follow the highlights of the conflict without getting bogged down in detail. The illustrations and maps that support the text are also quite good. The only troubling aspect of this volume is the author's not-too subtle bias against the participation of American colonials in the war. Although Marston was born in the United States, his attitudes reflect the contempt that arrogant British officials held toward the colonies in circa 1770. This bias is demonstrated in consistently inaccurate descriptions of battles in which colonials were engaged. In the Battle of Ticonderoga in 1758, the author states that, &quot;the provincials attacked in the first wave and were easily repulsed.  Abercromby then committed his regular troops.&quot; This description is false, because the provincial units pushed in the French pickets but were not &quot;easily repulsed.&quot; Nor did Abercromby commit his regulars, because they attacked without orders and he lost control of the battle. The author's contention about the Black Watch's attack, that &quot;after an hour of hard hand-to-hand fighting, the attack was called off,&quot; is also misleading. Only a few Highlanders made it to the French entrenchments and the attack failed because the unit was virtually destroyed. A similar example occurs during the Forbes expedition, when the author states that &quot;on 14 September the British suffered a setback when the French garrison attacked their position, causing their provincial units to disperse..&quot; This description is totally false, because the action on that date was caused by a British decision to send an advance guard ahead to seize Fort Duquesne, but the detachment was ambushed and badly defeated. That detachment was commander by a British regular, Major James Grant, and consisted of regulars and provincials. Obviously, there is the traditional pattern of British 18th Century historiography, which is to downplay defeats and blame the stupid colonials if you cannot avoid discussing &quot;setbacks.&quot; This is the same kind of contempt for Colonial soldiers that British regulars were smirking about until they discovered otherwise at Bunker Hill. Furthermore, the author makes no effort to detail or discuss the immense efforts in raising troops to fight for the Crown, or the ramifications of widespread American military experience 12 years later when the Revolution broke out. Overall, this is still a very good volume for its size. American readers will appreciate the summaries of the campaigns of Frederick and those in Hannover, which are often ignored on this side of the Atlantic. However, Americans will be disappointed by the typical condescension toward Colonial military efforts.s regular troops.&quot; This description is false, because the provincial units pushed in the French pickets but were not &quot;easily repulsed.&quot; Nor did Abercromby commit his regulars, because they attacked without orders and he lost control of the battle. The author's contention about the Black Watch's attack, that &quot;after an hour of hard hand-to-hand fighting, the attack was called off,&quot; is also misleading. Only a few Highlanders made it to the French entrenchments and the attack failed because the unit was virtually destroyed. A similar example occurs during the Forbes expedition, when the author states that &quot;on 14 September the British suffered a setback when the French garrison attacked their position, causing their provincial units to disperse..&quot; This description is totally false, because the action on that date was caused by a British decision to send an advance guard ahead to seize Fort Duquesne, but the detachment was ambushed and badly defeated. That detachment was commander by a British regular, Major James Grant, and consisted of regulars and provincials. Obviously, there is the traditional pattern of British 18th Century historiography, which is to downplay defeats and blame the stupid colonials if you cannot avoid discussing &quot;setbacks.&quot; This is the same kind of contempt for Colonial soldiers that British regulars were smirking about until they discovered otherwise at Bunker Hill. Furthermore, the author makes no effort to detail or discuss the immense efforts in raising troops to fight for the Crown, or the ramifications of widespread American military experience 12 years later when the Revolution broke out. Overall, this is still a very good volume for its size. American readers will appreciate the summaries of the campaigns of Frederick and those in Hannover, which are often ignored on this side of the Atlantic. However, Americans will be disappointed by the typical condescension toward Colonial military efforts.	2001-08-25
1865670:US	52533596	R2RESAUOBLX3I7	1855327988	689236942	Pearl Harbor 1941: The Day of Infamy (Campaign Series 62)	Books	3	18	19	N	Y	A Decent, if Flawed Summary	Pearl Harbor 1941 is graphically very appealing.  If one ignores the first 35 pages and the final few pages, one might even call this an excellent summary.  For readers with only a general interest in the Pearl Harbor attack, this volume will suffice, but historians will probably only appreciate the excellent maps and order of battle information.  Particularly troubling, given the immense primary and secondary sources available on this subject, is the author's tendency toward misleading and erroneous facts.<br /> The opening introduction and background section is totally inadequate.  While the author takes time to mention Hawaii's historical background, he makes less effort to paint the immediate causes of the attack.  There is no mention of either the Chinese invasion of China in 1937 that led to the deterioration of US-Japanese relations or the Russo-Japanese border fighting in 1939-40 that shaped Japanese strategic conceptions away from further Eurasian entanglements.  The statement that the &quot;US Pacific Fleet was a deterrent&quot; is misleading; that was how FDR viewed it, not the Japanese, who saw it as a threat to their expansionist ambitions in the Pacific.  Even Admiral Kimmel, who commanded the Pacific Fleet, felt wholesale transfers of men and vessels to the Atlantic undermined its deterrence value.<br /> The section on opposing commanders is more than a bit rambling and has odd choices of individuals, some of whom were not military commanders involved directly in the campaign.  The US section has Kimmel, Short, Stark, Marshall, Hull and FDR.  The Japanese section has Yamamoto, Fuchida, Genda, Nagumo and Nomura. Certainly politicians and diplomats such as FDR, Hull and Nomura do not belong here.  Noticeably absent are the US air commanders in Hawaii, Bloch and Martin, who certainly bore some responsibility for the defeat.  The entry for Nagumo is misleading, implying that he committed suicide at Saigon in 1944 &quot;when the inevitable result of the war became clear.&quot;  Instead, Nagumo was commander of the naval base on Saipan and committed suicide when US troops overran the island.  The entry for Yamamoto that claims he was, &quot;a man who fought but wanted peace&quot; is nauseating.  Just what did he ever do for peace?  The chronology section, although detailed, is also marked with misleading or erroneous entries, further complicated by the fact that the author does not specify what time zone he is using.  For example, he states that the Japanese fleet sailed on 25 November, but local time was actually 26 November.  The crucial 27 November &quot;war warning&quot; is falsely delivered as advising Kimmel and Short that negotiations had failed and to &quot;be prepared for any eventuality.&quot;  It said no such thing.<br /> Although there is a section on the Japanese attack plan, there is no section on US defensive plans or the Rainbow War Plan.  The author should have mentioned the Martin-Bellinger studied which addressed the vulnerability of Oahu to air attack.  In the Japanese section, there is no mention of the vociferous opposition to the raid and how Yamamoto had to threaten resigning in order to get the operation approved.  The whole approach to Japan's strategy is euphemistic: &quot;Japan expanded into Asia...&quot;and the US &quot;thwarted every Japanese attempt to extend Asian influence,&quot; instead of, the US sought to contain Japanese aggression.  There are many other errors in this section, some so mundane, like claiming that the Japanese task force sailed from &quot;Tankan Bay&quot; instead of Hittokappu bay, that it is a wonder that the author even bothered to peruse secondary sources.<br /> Amazingly, the sections on the actual attack are quite good.  To be fair, they are better than Gordon Prange provides in his long-winded At Dawn We Slept.  Smith provides excellent maps and graphics for the attacks on each air base and the naval facilities, as well as a decent textual summary.  Three-D maps are provided for the first and second wave attacks, as well as the attack on Hickam Field.  There is even a map depicting US naval movements in Pearl during the attack, which is most unusual.  Several excellent illustrations and many photos complement the text.  Overall, these 36 pages that cover the attack (one more page than Prange) are excellent.<br /> Unfortunately, in the aftermath section the author reverts to his misleading tendencies.  He claims &quot;all eight [US] battleships [were] sunk or heavily damaged,&quot; which is totally wrong.  The USS Maryland and Pennsylvania were only slightly damaged and soon available for service, USS Tennessee was moderately damaged.  His follow-up conclusions are overly generalized and ignore the immediate affects of the raid.<br /> Overall, this a handy, colorful summary volume, but it should not be used as a substitute for serious history.  Unfortunately, the author has taken far too many liberties with the historical record for this to be considered a reliable summary.hree-D maps are provided for the first and second wave attacks, as well as the attack on Hickam Field.  There is even a map depicting US naval movements in Pearl during the attack, which is most unusual.  Several excellent illustrations and many photos complement the text.  Overall, these 36 pages that cover the attack (one more page than Prange) are excellent.  <br /> Unfortunately, in the aftermath section the author reverts to his misleading tendencies.  He claims &quot;all eight [US] battleships [were] sunk or heavily damaged,&quot; which is totally wrong.  The USS Maryland and Pennsylvania were only slightly damaged and soon available for service, USS Tennessee was moderately damaged.  His follow-up conclusions are overly generalized and ignore the immediate affects of the raid.  <br /> Overall, this a handy, colorful summary volume, but it should not be used as a substitute for serious history.  Unfortunately, the author has taken far too many liberties with the historical record for this to be considered a reliable summary.	2001-08-23
1866848:US	52533596	RB73JMG9LLMSX	0140157344	335507424	At Dawn We Slept: The Untold Story of Pearl Harbor	Books	3	22	32	N	N	At the End I Snored	It is apparent after reading At Dawn We Slept that those reviewers who have called this the &quot;definitive account&quot; of the Pearl Harbor attack either do not understand the meaning of &quot;definitive,&quot; or did not read the entire 753 pages.  While Professor Prange's 37-year research effort is exhaustive in the areas he chose to study, it certainly is far from definitive.  The book is divided into three sections, entitled &quot;Prelude,&quot; &quot;Action&quot; and &quot;Aftermath.&quot;<br /> In &quot;Prelude,&quot; Prange provides a complete reconstruction of the Japanese planning of the Pearl Harbor attack, beginning in early 1941.  The author is clearly fascinated by the Japanese effort to turn this &quot;mission impossible&quot; into reality.  Prange points out that the Japanese naval air arm vastly increased its capabilities through arduous training and intelligent reorganization.  The creation of the First Air Fleet in April 1941 marked a major doctrinal shift away from traditional battleship tactics and toward the use of massed sea-based airpower.  The American efforts to uncover Japanese intentions through the MAGIC decryptions are covered in great detail.  However, Prange glosses over the weighty strategic issues facing Japan.  While Prange does demonstrate that many Japanese officers opposed the plan as too risky and a diversion of effort, he does not properly address alternatives.  A related issue is the near deification of Admiral Yamamoto as a strategic genius.  After more than fifty years, the Pearl Harbor raids looks more like an act of national suicide than inspired genius.  Yamamoto's bold opening gambit was indecisive by design since he rejected any follow-up invasion of Hawaii.  Furthermore, the selection of Nagumo to command the task force was a poor choice that reduced the size of the victory at Pearl Harbor and contributed to defeat at Midway.  Yamamoto was no genius but rather, one of the blind imbeciles that led Japan down the path that ended at Hiroshima and Nagasaki.<br /> The section on the actual attack is covered in only 35 disappointing pages.  The chronology of the attack is poor, with the famous &quot;Air Raid&quot; alarm following behind the attacks on battleship row.  This section is by far the weakest in the book, almost as if Prange assumed his readers knew the details by heart and did not need serious recounting.  One example of this overly succinct account occurs in Prange's assessment of US airpower in Hawaii, where he merely notes the number of aircraft available, but not their readiness.  In Samuel Eliot Morison's account of the raid, he provides precise statistics that only 50% of the US Army bombers and 61% of the fighters were operational that morning.<br /> In &quot;Aftermath,&quot; Prange has developed the cure for insomnia, by using 200 pages to cover the post-attack recriminations ad nauseum.  The focus shifts almost entirely to the two commanders on the spot, Admiral Kimmel and General Short, and the Japanese characters fly off into the sunset.  Prange asks two key questions: (A) how was the US military caught by surprise after so many warnings and (B) who was responsible for this catastrophe?  Prange's short answer to A is that the US military was infected with widespread disbelief of a Japanese attack and they essentially ignored or downplayed the warnings.  The short answer to B is, the entire US military and political chain of command made mistakes that December, but Kimmel and Short made the greatest personal contributions to the catastrophe.<br /> There is still a great deal of sympathy for Kimmel and Short, with some accounts portraying them as scapegoats.  Prange does a good, if long-winded job, of dispelling this notion.  However, many of Prange's findings against the two men are delivered in rather muted fashion.  Short's decision to not issue ammunition to his antiaircraft and coastal artillery units was a key indicator that he failed to make the defensivepreparations ordered by the 27 November 1941 &quot;war warning&quot; message from Washington.  Consequently, not one US Army antiaircraft gun fired in defense of Oahu, thanks to Short.  Kimmel didn't even bother to pay lip service to the need for aerial reconnaissance and his adherence to peacetime weekend routines caused the slaughter of 2,000 of his sailors.  Although Kimmel and Short are repeatedly depicted as intelligent, hard-working officers, the facts speak otherwise.  Stupid, lazy and complacent seem more apt.  To be fair, Kimmel and Short were nimble in climbing the career ladder, just ineffective in preparing for war.  In fact, Kimmel and Short bear resemblance to other &quot;tragic&quot; military commanders, like von Paulus at Stalingrad or Pulleine at Isandlwana, who choke at the decisive moment.<br /> Another reason that this account is not definitive is Prange's failure to address other on-going activities in December 1941.  When the Asiatic Fleet in Manila received the &quot;war warning,&quot; Admiral Hart promptly withdrew two battalions of US marines and his gunboats from China.  Nor was Admiral Halsey, sailing under blackout conditions, caught napping.  These actions dispel the argument that everyone in the US Navy stood in disbelief of a Japanese attack.  Prange also fails to detail the ten days following the Pearl Harbor raid in which Kimmel and Short retained command.  When the US Marine defenders at Wake repulsed the initial Japanese attack, Kimmel and Short were presented with an opportunity to redeem at least some of their reputations.  Yet they wasted even this last chance.  Instead of launching an immediate relief effort, Kimmel dawdled and then sent only a weak task force, which was recalled.<br /> At Dawn We Slept is certainly an excellent case study in the use and mis-use of intelligence.  However, it is certainly not a definitive account of the Pearl Harbor attack.nsive preparations ordered by the 27 November 1941 &quot;war warning&quot; message from Washington.  Consequently, not one US Army antiaircraft gun fired in defense of Oahu, thanks to Short.  Kimmel didn't even bother to pay lip service to the need for aerial reconnaissance and his adherence to peacetime weekend routines caused the slaughter of 2,000 of his sailors.  Although Kimmel and Short are repeatedly depicted as intelligent, hard-working officers, the facts speak otherwise.  Stupid, lazy and complacent seem more apt.  To be fair, Kimmel and Short were nimble in climbing the career ladder, just ineffective in preparing for war.  In fact, Kimmel and Short bear resemblance to other &quot;tragic&quot; military commanders, like von Paulus at Stalingrad or Pulleine at Isandlwana, who choke at the decisive moment.<br /> Another reason that this account is not definitive is Prange's failure to address other on-going activities in December 1941.  When the Asiatic Fleet in Manila received the &quot;war warning,&quot; Admiral Hart promptly withdrew two battalions of US marines and his gunboats from China.  Nor was Admiral Halsey, sailing under blackout conditions, caught napping.  These actions dispel the argument that everyone in the US Navy stood in disbelief of a Japanese attack.  Prange also fails to detail the ten days following the Pearl Harbor raid in which Kimmel and Short retained command.  When the US Marine defenders at Wake repulsed the initial Japanese attack, Kimmel and Short were presented with an opportunity to redeem at least some of their reputations.  Yet they wasted even this last chance.  Instead of launching an immediate relief effort, Kimmel dawdled and then sent only a weak task force, which was recalled.  <br /> At Dawn We Slept is certainly an excellent case study in the use and mis-use of intelligence.  However, it is certainly not a definitive account of the Pearl Harbor attack.	2001-08-22
1867626:US	52533596	RTP3SU0YMLMZF	1857532244	183419262	Redcoats Along the Hudson: The Struggle for North America 1754-63 (Paperback Classics)	Books	1	10	11	N	N	Why Research when you can synthesize?	It is difficult to see why a retired British army colonel would want to write this book, which is a summarized history of the French and Indian War (1755-1763).  There is little new to offer in this account, since the author relies heavily on timeworn secondary sources such as Parkman from 1884 and Fortescque from the 1920s.  A professional military officer might have added value through in-depth analysis, but this is sacrificed for brevity.  Adding insult to injury, the book is poorly-written and in particular, the author should be cited for excessive use of the exclamation point (usually a bad sign in a history book).<br /> Throughout the book, Williams displays a casual attitude toward historical fact and statistics.  For example, the author writes that in 1754, [Governor] Dinwiddie...selected [George] Washington, now a colonel, with 300 men from his militia to attack Fort Duquesne..&quot;  However, Washington's mission was defensive - to construct forts on the Virginia frontier - and he had only 160 Virginia provincial troops (who were not militia).  In the 1758 Louisburg campaign, after the surrender of the fortress, Williams claims that, &quot;one thousand of their comrades [the French] lay dead among the ruins&quot;.  In fact, French army losses in the Siege of Louisburg were 102 killed.  In  the 1758 Ticonderoga Campaign, Williams also fumbles on the description of the key skirmish at Bernetz Brook on 6 July, writing that, &quot;in the skirmish which followed, Howe, shot through the heart, was killed instantly, with 300 of his companions&quot;.  In fact, British losses in this skirmish were fewer than 100, but French losses were about 300 killed, wounded and captured.  These examples demonstrate how error-prone and unreliable this account is and also the author's failure to properly research his subject.	2001-08-22
1871742:US	52533596	R3GKQH0IY52JMS	184176194X	846138573	Armies in the Balkans 1914–18 (Men-at-Arms)	Books	3	16	18	N	N	Lots of Info, Lots of Bias	This addition to the Osprey Men-at-Arms series offers considerable hard-to-find information on the oft-neglected Balkan armies of the First World War.  Sections cover the forces of Serbia, Montenegro, Albania, Bulgaria, Greece, Rumania, Austria-Hungary as well as the German, Turkish, Russian, British, French and Italian units sent to that front.  Dusan Babac, a Serbian military history enthusiast, has culled the archives of the Military Museum in Belgrade and provides many photographs previously unseen in the West.  The volume also offers much new and hard-to-find information on the armies that fought in the Balkans.  However, there is also considerable overt pro-Serb bias throughout the volume.<br /> The author's pro-Serb bias is evident from the first page, where he states that, &quot;Austro-Hungary had provoked Serbia by holding military maneuvers in Bosnia-Herzegovina in summer 1914,&quot; which led to the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand.  No mention of state-sponsored terrorism by Serbian military intelligence or Serbian territorial interests in Bosnia. Later, the successful Central Powers' invasion of Serbia in October 1915 is downplayed by the Serbs &quot;legendary tactical retreat&quot; through Kosovo into Albania.  The point that without Allied refuge and support Serbia would have been knocked out of the war by late 1915 is minimized here.<br /> The section on the Austro-Hungarian forces used in the Balkans is not very good.  The Order of Battle is skimpy compared to those of other countries, with only divisions listed, no artillery or engineer units provided.  Also unlike the other sections, there is no discussion of Austro-Hungarian unit organizations or equipments.  The three figures depicted for the Austro-Hungarian army in the color plates are rather odd, non-representative choices.  One gets the impression that the author would rather have omitted this section (it did include Croats and Bosnians, after all, not favorite people of most Serbs).<br /> The sections on the Serb, Montenegrin, Greek, Bulgarian and Rumanian armies are quite detailed for a volume this size, with succinct discussions of unit organizations and equipment.  Most of the order of battles for these armies include infantry units down to regimental level, cavalry, artillery and engineer units.  Some of the order of battles are a bit difficult to decipher however, since the author does not seem to have mastered the military use of the slash in unit abbreviations.  For example, in the Serbian army OB, a unit listed as &quot;Danube/2&quot; could be read as 2nd Division of the Danubian Corps, but the author may mean 2nd Danubian Division.  Typically slashes are only used for &quot;organic&quot; units below division-level, not for divisions themselves, which are rarely &quot;organic&quot; to a corps.<br /> The sections on the various German, Turkish and Allied units that operated in the Balkans are less detailed, usually mentioning only division-level units.  However the small section on the Russian contingent includes a clear error when it states that the initial Russian force was &quot;later joined by the 1st and 3rd [brigades] and grouped in July 1917 into an 18,000-strong division.&quot;  Readers should see Jamie Cockfield's excellent account of the Russian Expeditionary Force, which has considerable detail on the morale collapse in the Russian 1st and 3rd Brigades stationed in France, and their refusal to be transferred to the Balkan front.<br /> Overall, this volume packs considerable amounts of hard-to-find OB data on some of the minor armies of the First World.  Other details on uniforms, rank structure and organization are a bonus.  However, the pro-Serb bias of the author reduces the comprehensive value of this volume and renders some of its information as suspect.s).  <br /> The sections on the Serb, Montenegrin, Greek, Bulgarian and Rumanian armies are quite detailed for a volume this size, with succinct discussions of unit organizations and equipment.  Most of the order of battles for these armies include infantry units down to regimental level, cavalry, artillery and engineer units.  Some of the order of battles are a bit difficult to decipher however, since the author does not seem to have mastered the military use of the slash in unit abbreviations.  For example, in the Serbian army OB, a unit listed as &quot;Danube/2&quot; could be read as 2nd Division of the Danubian Corps, but the author may mean 2nd Danubian Division.  Typically slashes are only used for &quot;organic&quot; units below division-level, not for divisions themselves, which are rarely &quot;organic&quot; to a corps.  <br /> The sections on the various German, Turkish and Allied units that operated in the Balkans are less detailed, usually mentioning only division-level units.  However the small section on the Russian contingent includes a clear error when it states that the initial Russian force was &quot;later joined by the 1st and 3rd [brigades] and grouped in July 1917 into an 18,000-strong division.&quot;  Readers should see Jamie Cockfield's excellent account of the Russian Expeditionary Force, which has considerable detail on the morale collapse in the Russian 1st and 3rd Brigades stationed in France, and their refusal to be transferred to the Balkan front.  <br /> Overall, this volume packs considerable amounts of hard-to-find OB data on some of the minor armies of the First World.  Other details on uniforms, rank structure and organization are a bonus.  However, the pro-Serb bias of the author reduces the comprehensive value of this volume and renders some of its information as suspect.	2001-08-19
1886287:US	52533596	R18U7OWJ6X1MO7	0275969045	933155761	Nanking : Anatomy of an Atrocity	Books	4	61	74	N	N	A Revisionist Account of the Rape of Nanking	In response to sensationalist accounts like Iris Chang's earlier Rape of Nanking, Japanese historian Masahiro Yamamoto has attempted a detailed scholarly examination of what actually occurred when the Japanese army captured the Nationalist capital in December 1937.  The result is a thought-provoking account that is sure to spark debate, if not some reappraisals.  The author has assembled a wealth of supporting data from American, Chinese and Japanese sources, including official reports, soldier's diaries and burial records.  However, any appreciation for the author's Herculean research efforts should be tempered with the realization of his real intent, which is to debunk the significance of the &quot;Rape of Nanking&quot; by building a case for mitigating factors.  Foremost, the author seeks to dispel the commonly-held belief that somewhere between 100,000 and 300,000 Chinese were massacred by the Japanese army at Nanking.  Rather, the author states that, &quot;the total human losses in Nanking and its vicinity in 1937-38 amounted to anywhere between 45,000 to 65,000, of which 15,000 to 50,000 were killed in unlawful ways - as a result of execution by the Japanese troops and other atrocities - including about 5,000 to as many as 20,000 civilians.&quot;<br /> The book is organized in seven chapters, starting with a brief history of war atrocities from ancient times up to the First World War.  Actually, this is the weakest part of the book and the author's attempt to provide mitigating factors for Japanese behavior in 1937 based upon ancient sieges is ludicrous. Oddly, the author makes no mention of other 20th Century atrocities - such as Lidice (1942), Malmedy (1944), Oradour-sur-Glane (1944) and My Lai (1968) or Srebrenica (1993)- that might help to put Nanking in perspective.  Given that all these other 20th Century atrocities involved the death of less than 1,000 victims each and he admits that thousands certainly died illegally at Nanking, it is hard to see how the &quot;Rape of Nanking&quot; does not rank as the most significant military atrocity of the 20th Century.<br /> Concerning the actual death toll, Yamamoto does provide fairly convincing evidence that the often-asserted 300,000 victims was a war-time exaggeration.  In fact, the city population had dropped to only about 200-400,000 civilians along with a 80-110,000 man garrison in December 1937.  The verdict of the Postwar War Crimes Trial was that &quot;upward of 100,000&quot; had died.  Yamamoto provides burial data from one Chinese source that shows only 41,000 buried in this period, of which only 129 were women and children.  The author discounts other Chinese statistics that claim 150,000 were buried by asserting that these other organizations probably falsified their numbers.  This is a weakness in his argument, because no sound reason for rejecting the veracity of the higher numbers is given.  Also, the author ignores the real possibility that many victims were probably not buried or may have been burned by the Japanese army to prevent disease among their occupation troops.<br /> The author suggests that the atrocities consisted of two-phases: the initial five day period after the city fell in which many Chinese POWs were executed, and a six week or longer period in which individual criminal activity occurred as a result of disciplinary lapses.  In addition to the deaths, the author estimates that 4-15,000 Chinese women were raped.  According to the author, the execution of the thousands of Chinese POWs is due primarily to one factor, which is the Chinese tendency to use &quot;plainclothes&quot; troops or for regular troops to discard uniforms to avoid capture.  The author asserts that Japanese fear of the &quot;fifth column&quot; and guerrilla activity in the city, particularly a potential threat to Prince Asaka in the victory parade, caused commanders to over-react.  Japanese logistic problems and food shortages also contributed to the decision to execute the prisoners.  This hypothesis is ridiculous.  First, most Chinese troops in Nanking were low-quality recent conscripts who probably lacked uniforms.  Take a look at similar last-ditch &quot;instant&quot; troops - the British Home Guard in 1940 or the Volksturm in 1945 and what do you see - troops mostly in civilian clothes, carrying old weapons and sporting only an armband.  Yamamoto seems to think that guerrilla warfare is horrible and illegal -invaders always do - but he never questions Japan's war of aggression in China that precipitated this desperate resistance.  Secondly, there is no information provided on Japanese logistics in the Nanking campaign, which is actually crucial to the author's position, since he blames supply problems as the cause of disciplinary &quot;lapses&quot;.<br />  Blame is shifted to the Chinese, when the author asserts that the &quot;outcome at Nanking was attributable in part to decisions on the Chinese side.&quot;  The author attempts to blame them for defending their capital and using anti-Japanese propaganda that infuriated the troops.  These arguments are repugnant to anyone with moral sense.  Nations have a right to defend their territory and does the author think the Chinese should have declared their capital an open city, with banners proclaiming, &quot;Welcome Invaders!?&quot;<br />  A key question at the postwar war crimes trials was the question of command responsibility.  The author suggests that the Japanese commander, General Matsui, was rail-roaded with questionable evidence and that his execution was unjust.  This attempt to clear a convicted murderer ignores the golden truth in any army, that a commander is ultimately responsible for whatever his troops do, for good or bad.  The author concludes, &quot;it is impossible to determine how and to what extent the Japanese were responsible  the fact-finding phase is not yet over, or there should be a retrial.&quot;  Wrong, it is possible and the verdict of history is in: Japan's army leaders were 100% responsible and they paid with their necks.  Small compensation for the thousands that died because of their insane war of aggression.te the prisoners.  This hypothesis is ridiculous.  First, most Chinese troops in Nanking were low-quality recent conscripts who probably lacked uniforms.  Take a look at similar last-ditch &quot;instant&quot; troops - the British Home Guard in 1940 or the Volksturm in 1945 and what do you see - troops mostly in civilian clothes, carrying old weapons and sporting only an armband.  Yamamoto seems to think that guerrilla warfare is horrible and illegal -invaders always do - but he never questions Japan's war of aggression in China that precipitated this desperate resistance.  Secondly, there is no information provided on Japanese logistics in the Nanking campaign, which is actually crucial to the author's position, since he blames supply problems as the cause of disciplinary &quot;lapses&quot;.  <br />     Blame is shifted to the Chinese, when the author asserts that the &quot;outcome at Nanking was attributable in part to decisions on the Chinese side.&quot;  The author attempts to blame them for defending their capital and using anti-Japanese propaganda that infuriated the troops.  These arguments are repugnant to anyone with moral sense.  Nations have a right to defend their territory and does the author think the Chinese should have declared their capital an open city, with banners proclaiming, &quot;Welcome Invaders!?&quot;  <br />     A key question at the postwar war crimes trials was the question of command responsibility.  The author suggests that the Japanese commander, General Matsui, was rail-roaded with questionable evidence and that his execution was unjust.  This attempt to clear a convicted murderer ignores the golden truth in any army, that a commander is ultimately responsible for whatever his troops do, for good or bad.  The author concludes, &quot;it is impossible to determine how and to what extent the Japanese were responsible  the fact-finding phase is not yet over, or there should be a retrial.&quot;  Wrong, it is possible and the verdict ofhistory is in: Japan's army leaders were 100% responsible and they paid with their necks.  Small compensation for the thousands that died because of their insane war of aggression.	2001-08-08
1896716:US	52533596	R145XJZNOCUG26	1885119216	550381077	Napoleon's Great Adversary	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Portrait of a Dynastic Army in Turmoil	Napoleon's Great Adversary is a well-written military study of the evolution of the Austrian Army and the role of its best commander, the Archduke Charles, during the Napoleonic Wars from 1792-1814.  Charles, brother of the Austrian emperor, saw his first combat in 1792 and rapidly rose to become the driving force behind the reform movement in the often-defeated Austrian army.  The author, a veteran of both the British army and the US Air Force, is a distinguished scholar and expert on the Austrian military.  Dr. Rothenberg brings the full weight of his scholarly research and military insights to provide one of the few English language accounts of the Austrian military in this key period.<br />  The book is organized in nine chapters which cover the Hapsburg monarchy and its army in 1792, the wars of the first and second coalitions, the first reform period in 1801-1805, the Ulm/Austerlitz campaigns of 1805, the second reform period of 1806-1809, the campaigns of 1809 and the final phase of the war in 1810-1814.  There are 17 maps in this volume, mostly taken from other sources such as Scott Bowden.  There are also 23 illustrations, mostly from the Vienna Army Museum, that depict uniforms and notable commanders.  Unfortunately, the editors have not done the authors any favors and he notes this in his introduction.  Given the dearth of works on this subject and the research effort made by the author, this is a shame.<br />  The author gives an excellent description of the condition, equipment, tactics and doctrine of the Austrian army at the outset of the Napoleonic Wars.  However the description of Austrian military operations in 1792-1800 is overly succinct and focuses primarily on Charles' 1796 campaign in Germany.  Napoleon's 1796-1797 campaign in Italy is covered in less than two pages and the Battle of Marengo in only one paragraph, with no new Austrian perspectives offered on either campaign.  Instead, the author provides considerable detail on the reform programs pushed by Charles after the defeat at Marengo.  These reforms were only partly accomplished when war broke out again in 1805, resulting in the catastrophes of Ulm and Austerlitz.<br />  Clearly the author's main interest is the period of reform that followed the defeat at Austerlitz and culminated in Austria's decision to re-enter the war in 1809.  It was during this period that Charles, despite the suspicion and hostility of his brother's court, made his greatest contributions as War Minister and field commander.  While not equal to the hard-hitting and fast-moving French armies, Charles was able to restore the Austrian army's cohesion and modestly improve its staying power.  While he essentially bungled the outset of the 1809 campaign by failing to strike quickly at the dispersed French forces in Bavaria, Charles opted to retire behind the formidable Danube River and await Napoleon's attack.  Napoleon soon obliged him with a reckless hasty assault across the river at Aspern-Essling, but a combination of Austrian tenacity and bad luck contributed to Napoleon's first battlefield defeat.  The chagrined emperor, who had taken Austrian incompetence for granted, then realized that only a better-prepared offensive could succeed against the stout Austrian defense.  Charles, although victorious, elected to do nothing and await the next attack.  Napoleon's second crossing was successful and resulted in the bloodbath Battle of Wagram.  This costly French victory taught Napoleon that Austrian armies were no longer the small, fragile forces that quickly retreated if their lines of communication were threatened, but were evolving into an attrition-oriented force.  However, defeat at Wagram was the end of Charles' career and retired into relative obscurity thereafter.<br />  This account, while somewhat superficial in the early phases of the Napoleonic Wars, is graced with considerable data on Austrian forces.  At times, Austrian leadership and tactics seem almost imbecilicand rigid to a fault.  Even after the defeat at Wagram, Austrian reforms were reluctant to endorse open-order skirmishing tactics that the French had been using so successfully for the past 17 years.  The Austrian army had some of the finest cavalry in Europe but wasted it by splitting it up in an infantry support role and using mounted units piece-meal, just as the French would later do with their armor in 1940.  Good ideas, such as introducing all-arms corps formations, were negated by attempting to apply them in the chaos of mobilization. Nevertheless, the Austrian army continued to rise and fight again, even if it was a worn, threadbare force by 1814.  Military reforms did not come easily to the hide-bound Hapsburg Empire as the author notes that, &quot;the political and military leadership realized that radical innovations in the military sphere were linked to changes in government and society that neither party desiredBasically the Hapsburg army remained a dynastic force.&quot;t imbecilic and rigid to a fault.  Even after the defeat at Wagram, Austrian reforms were reluctant to endorse open-order skirmishing tactics that the French had been using so successfully for the past 17 years.  The Austrian army had some of the finest cavalry in Europe but wasted it by splitting it up in an infantry support role and using mounted units piece-meal, just as the French would later do with their armor in 1940.  Good ideas, such as introducing all-arms corps formations, were negated by attempting to apply them in the chaos of mobilization. Nevertheless, the Austrian army continued to rise and fight again, even if it was a worn, threadbare force by 1814.  Military reforms did not come easily to the hide-bound Hapsburg Empire as the author notes that, &quot;the political and military leadership realized that radical innovations in the military sphere were linked to changes in government and society that neither party desiredBasically the Hapsburg army remained a dynastic force.&quot;	2001-07-31
1904314:US	52533596	RYRGE17Y5FF1Z	0811715159	419403621	The Story the Soldiers Wouldn't Tell: Sex in the Civil War	Books	3	61	65	N	Y	The Dark Side of the Ledger	Thomas P. Lowry, a physician with an interest in history, seeks to dispel the common perception that the American Civil War was fought by sublime marble figures on horseback.  In large part he succeeds, but only by way of over-kill on the seemly side.  Indeed, some readers may walk away from this book convinced that the War Between the States was fought entirely by drunken, insubordinate, gambling prostitute-chasers.<br /> The book consists of 17 short chapters, each covering a short topic that forms part of the author's tapestry.  Chapters include topics such as officer misconduct, court martials, rape, VD and prostitution, all in relation to army units.  The author does make some valid points here that are supported by documentary evidence, such as the high VD rates in the Union army that probably had an operational impact.  While deaths from VD were not an immediate issue, up to 25% or more of soldiers in some units were debilitated.  The units that were hardest hit by this disease were those that were stationed for prolonged periods of time near cities, rather than combat units in the field that had low rates.  Although the evidence on the Southern side is weaker, apparently the Confederate army had lower VD rates since more of their forces remained in the field for longer periods.  However, on most subjects the author's evidence is fragmentary, based on hospital returns and provost martial records.<br /> Other parts of this book are based on scraps of diaries, letters and other wartime bric-a-brac.  At times the author is overly-salacious and tends toward gossipy assertions, such as President Lincoln's relationship with a former male law partner. Another chapter on religious scandals involves two chaplains and is not very germane to this account.  Overall, historians might find this book interesting for shedding some light on the darker corners of the Civil War, particularly in reference to certain individuals such as Major General Judson Kilpatrick and Major General Joseph Hooker.  Military readers might appreciate the information concerning the impact of disease on troop discipline and morale.  However, the book is rather superficial and includes no appendices or supporting data.  Some of the depiction of events, such as Daniel Sickle's role at Gettysburg is inaccurate, where the author claims, &quot;in a few hours, half his corps was dead or wounded.&quot;  In fact, Sickles' 3rd Corps suffered 35% losses in the entire three days at Gettysburg.  Readers should treat other passages with equal circumspection.eneral Joseph Hooker.  Military readers might appreciate the information concerning the impact of disease on troop discipline and morale.  However, the book is rather superficial and includes no appendices or supporting data.  Some of the depiction of events, such as Daniel Sickle's role at Gettysburg is inaccurate, where the author claims, &quot;in a few hours, half his corps was dead or wounded.&quot;  In fact, Sickles' 3rd Corps suffered 35% losses in the entire three days at Gettysburg.  Readers should treat other passages with equal circumspection.	2001-07-26
1909002:US	52533596	R1DOT85QHQ52T4	1885119283	173143411	1745: A Military History Of The Last Jacobite Uprising	Books	4	6	8	N	N	An Excellent Military Analysis	1745 is a military history of the Jacobite rising in Scotland, starting with the landing of Prince Charles in July 1745 and culminating in his defeat at Culloden in April 1746.  Stuart Reid, a former NCO in the British army, has written a detailed operational account of the campaign that sheds light on many of the more obscure corners of this famous rebellion.  Whereas most accounts focus primarily on Culloden, Reid provides considerable detail on many of the minor operations and minor players in the campaign, such as the ten Dutch and six Hessian battalions that were brought to England for garrison duty.<br /> The core value that this book provides is solid and detailed information on the order of battle, strengths, training, leadership, equipment and losses of both armies.  Two appendices cover the respective armies in great depth.  The author's analysis reveals interesting facets that are ignored or neglected in less detailed accounts, such as the fact that only about one in five of the Jacobin soldiers carried a broadsword into battle.  Stuart's data clearly shows that the popular image of a Highlander fighting with sword and target were more myth than reality.  The infantry of both armies relied primarily on muskets, but the difference lay in tactics; the British preferred firepower while the Jacobins preferred column attacks.  It is also interesting how fragile the morale and discipline was in both armies; even at the victorious Battle of Prestonpans, many Highlanders hid until they were sure they were on the winning side.  Even British &quot;regular&quot; troops (many of whom were recently raised) were prone to rout.  In this war, battles were decided by which army would rout first.<br /> While the author provides good detail on the Jacobin invasion of England, he provides no map on this interesting part of the rebellion.  However, he does make the point that the Jacobins failed to consolidate in Scotland before invading England, leaving a number of English garrisons in their rear.  In fact, the small garrison of Edinburgh Castle was able to &quot;liberate&quot; the city without external assistance.  Once the invasion failed, the demoralized Jacobin army returned to Scotland and began to reduce some of the British garrisons, but vital time had been lost.  During this period in the winter of 1745/1746, the author details various French attempts to land reinforcements for the rebels and the activities of the numerous &quot;minor&quot; militias on both sides.<br /> Interestingly, the final Battle of Culloden was brought about because the British threatened the rebel's vital stockpile of oatmeal in Inverness.  In modern parlance, this stockpile was the Jacobin &quot;center of gravity&quot; because they could not continue large-scale operations without adequate rations.  Prince Charles was presented with three courses of action: withdraw into the Highlands and conduct guerilla operations, defend Inverness or launch a daring, night-time spoiling attack to upset the impending British offensive.  While withdrawal might have been better for the Scottish clansmen, it would have signaled the end of Charles' bid to regain the thrown for the Stuart cause.  Charles, always the gambler, opted for the daring night attack but when it aborted in chaos, he was forced to mount a hasty defense at Culloden.  The tired, hungry and outnumbered Jacobin army was forced to fight on terrain that did not favor their hasty assault tactics and they were defeated.<br /> After such a well-balanced account, it is surprising to see the author produce such a biased and whitewashing conclusion.  There is no mention of &quot;Butcher&quot; Cumblerland, the British commander, or the atrocities that his army committed after the victory at Culloden.  While other accounts, such as John Prebble's excellent Culloden, point out the incredible brutality of the British &quot;mop up&quot; operations, Reid fails to address this issue.  Indeed, it was a very sorry chapter in the history of the British Army, with British troops involved in a year-long killing, burning, looting and raping spree along the Great Glenn, inflicting harm upon Scottish loyalists as well as Jacobin sympathizers.  The author even has the temerity to claim that there was essentially no linkage between Culloden and the Highland &quot;Clearing,&quot; while also failing to mention the Disarming Act and the prohibition of clan tartans for the next 36 years.  Thus the final chapter of this book should be skipped.<br /> Nevertheless, this book is a valuable source for anyone studying the '45 in Scotland.  The military detail provided is particularly useful in giving a full picture of the myriad of activities going on, rather than just focusing on the three big battles as do most accounts.y chapter in the history of the British Army, with British troops involved in a year-long killing, burning, looting and raping spree along the Great Glenn, inflicting harm upon Scottish loyalists as well as Jacobin sympathizers.  The author even has the temerity to claim that there was essentially no linkage between Culloden and the Highland &quot;Clearing,&quot; while also failing to mention the Disarming Act and the prohibition of clan tartans for the next 36 years.  Thus the final chapter of this book should be skipped.<br /> Nevertheless, this book is a valuable source for anyone studying the '45 in Scotland.  The military detail provided is particularly useful in giving a full picture of the myriad of activities going on, rather than just focusing on the three big battles as do most accounts.	2001-07-22
1909362:US	52533596	R2661Y5Y8PORVO	1855321580	272111122	Culloden 1746: The Highland Clans' Last Charge (Campaign)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Balanced Campaign Summary	Peter Harrington provides a balanced summary of the famous Jacobin rising in the '45 in Scotland, which culminated in their defeat at Culloden in 1746.  The account of the Culloden campaign and the events leading up to it are depicted in solid prose, which is supported by excellent illustrations and maps.  The campaign maps alone are well-worth purchasing this volume, surpassing those in other more detailed accounts.<br /> Like many of the Osprey titles, the section on opposing leaders is inadequate, focusing only on Prince Charles and the Duke of Cumberland.  The subordinate commanders such as Murray and Hawley who actually fought the battle are given much shorter shrift.  Jacobin reasons for fighting at Culloden are murky in this account.  The author also gives too much stress to British modified bayonet tactics to deal with the Highland charge, but this exaggerates the effect of cold steel; the Jacobins were defeated by artillery and massed musketry.  The order of battle on both sides is vague, with no strengths provided, which is odd considering that this information is readily available in secondary sources.<br /> The illustrations are excellent but they tend to perpetuate the myth of the Highlander armed with broadsword and target.  Information on Jacobin weapons captured at Culloden indicate that only one in five had a sword and that the Jacobins relied on muskets, not swords.<br /> The author's conclusions are solid, with much good information on the aftermath of Culloden. There is no attempt to whitewash the truth here, that the British army which had won a great victory on the field at Culloden, then proceeded to tarnish its reputation with brutal retributions upon Scottish civilians. The author also takes a brief look at alternative options available to Charles.  I used this volume as a handy reference when I visited the Culloden battlefield and found the photographs very useful for identifying key features in the engagement.  This volume is one of the better early books in the Osprey Campaign series.e better early books in the Osprey Campaign series.	2001-07-22
1920677:US	52533596	R2PS1J30604ZZZ	046504879X	611466079	The Rise Of Napoleon Bonaparte	Books	3	66	74	N	N	An Entertaining Tour-guide of Familiar Locales	Robert B. Asprey, a former US marine officer, has set out to write a two-volume history covering the rise and fall of Napoleon Bonaparte.  In this first volume, Asprey covers Bonaparte's career from his birth in Corsica in 1769 to his triumph at the Battle of Austerlitz in 1805.  This two-volume effort is not based on any newly-unearthed primary sources or recent archaeology.  Rather, Asprey seeks to provide a balanced account of Napoleon's rise and fall using standard sources such as his correspondence, while avoiding the hero-worship or tyrant-bashing style of so many other accounts of the French emperor.  In great part the author succeeds, making this volume an excellent introduction to Napoleon's life.<br /> Organizationally, the book is divided into 48 short chapters that generally cover 2-6 months of Napoleon's life.  Each chapter is succinct but well-written, although the author does tend to over-use modern colloquialisms.  Readers seeking in-depth analysis of battles or political and economic decisions will be disappointed by this approach, which tends to scratch only the surface of key events, but the editor may be more responsible for brevity than the author.  Ending this volume at Austerlitz is an odd choice, since the victories of Jena and Friedland were yet to come.  Probably the Brumaire coup of 1799 would have been a better place to conclude the rise of Napoleon, with a middle volume to cover 1800-1812 and a third volume to cover his fall in 1812-1821.  The lack of any kind of summation or commentary chapter as conclusion to this volume is also odd.<br /> The only significant historical error in the book is the confusion over the Caffarelli brothers, both of whom were French generals who served under Napoleon in this period.  On page 309, Asprey mentions that Caffarelli died in Syria in April 1799.  Later on page 538-40, Caffarelli is mentioned as commanding a division at Austerlitz in 1805.  On checking the index, readers will note only one listing for a &quot;General Louis Maximilien Caffarelli.&quot;  In fact, Louis died in Syria but his brother Marie-Francois was the general who fought at Austerlitz.  The author failed to note that he was in fact referring to two different individuals.  There are also other instances of historical distortion, such as the author's account of the demise of Robespierre and the naval battle off Toulon in July 1795.<br /> Asprey's account is very sympathetic toward Napoleon, and it is difficult for professional military men not to admire the Corsican artillery officer who displayed great skill on the battlefield and restored order to his country.  While the author points out the obvious blots on Napoleon's ledger, such as the massacre of Turkish prisoners at Jaffa, he avoids asking tough questions; did Napoleon participate in the Jacobin massacres in Toulon in 1793?  French looting in Italy is mentioned, but this account only hints at Napoleon's personal looting.  Furthermore, Napoleon's treasonous conduct in Corsica in 1792 while on paid leave is inexcusable and should have merited some kind of rebuke from this historian.<br /> This volume does loose some coherence when in comes to the thorny issue of Napoleon's &quot;grand strategy.&quot;  In this regard, Asprey goes along with conventional - if flawed - wisdom.  The first campaign in which Napoleon truly planned and executed on his own was the Egyptian-Syrian campaigns of 1798-9, and the author goes along with the French assertion that the objective was to &quot;strike a blow at British commerce&quot; and to menace India.  This commonly-repeated assertions are idiotic.  British trade with Egypt and Syria was minimal and a small French expeditionary corps could hardly control huge expanses of land against the Turks and march 3,000 miles across desert and mountains to India.  Until the advent of the Suez Canal, Egypt had no strategic value for Britain, but the loss of 20,000 good-quality French troops on a hair-brained expedition cost France dearly in the 1799 campaign in Western Europe.  Once he was in charge, Napoleon then directed numerous silly plans for expeditions to the West Indies, the Mideast, China and India, none of which made any strategic sense. The costly expedition to Santo Domingo was more of the same nonsense, but Napoleon's reputation as a strategist remain unblemished.<br /> Asprey's account then hinges heavily on Napoleon's &quot;hell-bent&quot; desire to invade England and thereby finish off the instigators of continuous continental wars.  In this account, the author maintains that Napoleon definitely wanted to invade England in 1804-5, but a clumsy French naval leadership and unfortunate circumstances thwarted him.  Asprey certainly spends much effort detailing that Napoleon was not the aggressor in the renewed war, but that England sought to renege on the Peace of Amiens and then egged on Austria to mobilize.  However the author does miss a major point: if Napoleon was &quot;hell-bent&quot; on invading England and since he knew that his navy was no match for the Royal Navy in a fair fight, why then did not Napoleon launch a &quot;Pearl Harbor&quot; type sneak attack on the British homeland?  During the brief cease-fire of 1802-3, French ports were not blockaded and a French army was sent by sea to Santo Domingo.  Could not Napoleon have sent this army to land in Kent instead?  Asprey says that Britain's three main assets were its navy, its gold and its subversive tactics, but all of these could have been trumped by a surprise descent.  Thus the main historical question should be, shouldn't Napoleon have been more of an aggressor than he in fact was?<br /> This volume covers all the main aspects of Napoleon's life in short, but adequate detail.  However, it does not attempt serious analysis or ask the kind of tough questions that might justify a new interpretation of this great captain.pedition cost France dearly in the 1799 campaign in Western Europe.  Once he was in charge, Napoleon then directed numerous silly plans for expeditions to the West Indies, the Mideast, China and India, none of which made any strategic sense. The costly expedition to Santo Domingo was more of the same nonsense, but Napoleon's reputation as a strategist remain unblemished.<br /> Asprey's account then hinges heavily on Napoleon's &quot;hell-bent&quot; desire to invade England and thereby finish off the instigators of continuous continental wars.  In this account, the author maintains that Napoleon definitely wanted to invade England in 1804-5, but a clumsy French naval leadership and unfortunate circumstances thwarted him.  Asprey certainly spends much effort detailing that Napoleon was not the aggressor in the renewed war, but that England sought to renege on the Peace of Amiens and then egged on Austria to mobilize.  However the author does miss a major point: if Napoleon was &quot;hell-bent&quot; on invading England and since he knew that his navy was no match for the Royal Navy in a fair fight, why then did not Napoleon launch a &quot;Pearl Harbor&quot; type sneak attack on the British homeland?  During the brief cease-fire of 1802-3, French ports were not blockaded and a French army was sent by sea to Santo Domingo.  Could not Napoleon have sent this army to land in Kent instead?  Asprey says that Britain's three main assets were its navy, its gold and its subversive tactics, but all of these could have been trumped by a surprise descent.  Thus the main historical question should be, shouldn't Napoleon have been more of an aggressor than he in fact was?  <br /> This volume covers all the main aspects of Napoleon's life in short, but adequate detail.  However, it does not attempt serious analysis or ask the kind of tough questions that might justify a new interpretation of this great captain.	2001-07-13
1931233:US	52533596	R1PZYCZXA0EV6C	0582494184	469173991	The Longman Companion to the French Revolution	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	An Invaluable Research Aid	The Longman Companion is an invaluable aid for the serious researcher who wants a concise compendium of various facts about the French Revolution.  However, the price of this volume is steep and may not be worthwile for those with only casual interest in the subject.<br />There are nine sections in this book.  The first section covers political chronology of the revolution, with chapters that break down the revolutionary period into phases from 1786 to 1799.  The second section covers the framework of government, including details on the various constitutions and the declarations of the Rights of Man.  The third section covers the executive, providing details on various ministers, the directors and the consulate.<br />The fourth section covers the instutions of revolutionary government, such as revolutionary tribunals and committees.  The fifth section, of most interest to military historians, covers international relations and war.  A military chronology, commanders of all French armies, army strengths and battles are included.  The sixth section covers politics.  The seventh section covers administration, justice and finance.  The eight section covers religion and ideas.  The ninth section covers society and the economy.<br />The book concludes with 87 pages worth of capsule biographies of key individuals, a glossary of revolutionary terms, the revolutionary calendar and a detailed bibliography.  There are also charts and maps that support the main sections.<br />There is a tremendous amount of information in this volume, although some readers may feel that it covers their particular field of interest too rapidly.  Nevertheless, this is a great one-volume research tool, but to be fair, the price is unjustified.	2001-07-06
1940005:US	52533596	R3B2728MQFQO9H	0140444203	568905062	The Jewish War: Revised Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	78	85	N	N	A Traitor's Tale	A Traitor's Tale<br /> Imagine if the only account of the American Revolution was written by Benedict Arnold and you get a good idea of what Josephus' history is like.  The Jewish War is a contemporary account of the Jewish revolt against Roman occupation in 66-73 AD.  In terms of ancient history, The Jewish War is unusually detailed since the author was an active participant in events.  Josephus was born in 37 AD, seven years after the crucifixion of Christ, and he was educated as a scholar and priest.  Shortly after Judaea erupted in rebellion in May 66 AD, Josephus joined the insurgents and was tasked with organizing the military defense of Galilee.  Although the initial Roman effort to suppress the rebellion in late 66 AD failed, the Roman Empire quickly responded to the Jewish revolt.  A 50,000 man Roman army under the general Vespasian was assembled in Syria and invaded Galilee in Spring 67 AD.  Although Josephus put up a stout defense of the province, Vespasian overran one town after another until Josephus' own stronghold of Jotapata fell in July 67 AD.  While most of the Jewish defenders were killed in the final assault or committed mass suicide, Josephus decided to remain alive and collaborate with the all-conquering Romans.  Initially Josephus was treated as a prisoner but after demonstrating himself as a willing collaborator, he was treated as a guest.  For the remainder of the war, Josephus remained close to the Roman command headquarters and was able to gather insights that he would commit to his history of the war.  However it is important to remember that Josephus was a traitor (after the war he settled in Italy), and his desire to flatter his former enemies and to rehabilitate his tarnished reputation are important bias factors that shape the account.<br /> The first six chapters (130 pages) deals mostly with the reign of Herod the Great and the internal power struggles in Judaea in the 1st Century BC.  Although this third of the book is only intended to provide the background history of Judaea, it does hammer home the reality of constant struggles for dominance by various factions.  Jew on Jew violence was endemic.  The seventh chapter covers the period 6 - 58 AD when Judaea came under direct Roman rule due to anarchy in the province after Herod's death.  Pontius Pilate, the famous Roman governor of 26-36 AD, is only mentioned in three paragraphs.  Jesus Christ is not mentioned at all in this Penguin translation, but the Loeb translation does offer a short section on Christ and John the Baptist.  Certainly these chapters are disappointing in the relative lack of detail provided on recent events prior to the revolt, as opposed to the highly-detailed accounts of events that occurred 100-200 years prior.<br /> Josephus' account of the outbreak of the war is a bit confusing.  Whether they were revolting for political or religious reasons is unclear.  The relative impact of Roman heavy-handedness versus nationalist aspirations is ambiguous.  Josephus covers the period May 66 to July 67 AD in great detail, primarily because he was an active commander in Galilee in this period.  Most of this account is probably factual, except to where it relates to the author's prowess or the incident in which he was captured.<br /> After Josephus capture, the account then focuses primarily on the rival Jewish factions which attempted to seize power in Jerusalem and the Roman siege of that city.  Josephus covers the four-month siege of the capital (summer 70 AD) in great, bloody detail.  While the author's claims that over one million Jews died in the siege are greatly exaggerated since the population was only 600,000, there is little doubt that the final capture of the city was a scene of great carnage.  Josephus spends great effort to paint the Jewish defenders in the blackest light as impious gangsters, bent only on looting their own city and eliminating all rivals.  On the other hand, the Romans are painted in a very favorable light.  Both these portrayals are colored by Josephus' circumstances as a traitor (during the siege he repeatedly went to the walls and called on the defenders to surrender).<br /> The siege of Masada is covered in only the last fifteen pages, with little discussion of the Roman assault ramp.  This overly-succinct section, which covers the dramatic ending of the war, is disappointing.  As military history, The Jewish War does provide interesting lessons.  The initial Roman punitive expedition to crush the rebellion failed due to poor planning and hasty execution.  Vespasian's campaign was methodical and successful, particularly in eliminating all insurgent towns around Jerusalem before beginning a major siege.  The Roman Army fought best in open, set-piece battle but was several times defeated in confused street fighting inside Jerusalem and other towns.  Untrained but fanatical enemies can inflict losses on even well prepared regular troops, particularly when the fanatics are cornered and their situation is desperate.<br /> Despite omissions that were included in the Loeb translation, the Penguin editors are to be applauded for the excellent footnotes and appendices covering topics such as money, provincial administration and Jewish bandit factions.  The map of Judaea is decent, but the map of Jerusalem does not show surrounding areas where the Romans camped.  All in all, The Jewish War is valuable in covering a little-known war at a crucial time, but the author's veracity is often suspect.e light.  Both these portrayals are colored by Josephus' circumstances as a traitor (during the siege he repeatedly went to the walls and called on the defenders to surrender).  <br /> The siege of Masada is covered in only the last fifteen pages, with little discussion of the Roman assault ramp.  This overly-succinct section, which covers the dramatic ending of the war, is disappointing.  As military history, The Jewish War does provide interesting lessons.  The initial Roman punitive expedition to crush the rebellion failed due to poor planning and hasty execution.  Vespasian's campaign was methodical and successful, particularly in eliminating all insurgent towns around Jerusalem before beginning a major siege.  The Roman Army fought best in open, set-piece battle but was several times defeated in confused street fighting inside Jerusalem and other towns.  Untrained but fanatical enemies can inflict losses on even well prepared regular troops, particularly when the fanatics are cornered and their situation is desperate.  <br /> Despite omissions that were included in the Loeb translation, the Penguin editors are to be applauded for the excellent footnotes and appendices covering topics such as money, provincial administration and Jewish bandit factions.  The map of Judaea is decent, but the map of Jerusalem does not show surrounding areas where the Romans camped.  All in all, The Jewish War is valuable in covering a little-known war at a crucial time, but the author's veracity is often suspect.	2001-06-29
1960571:US	52533596	RXW01L5GJBL3W	031217389X	816782949	Conquest: The Roman Invasion of Britain	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Interesting but Treat With Caution	John Peddie, a retired British infantry officer, has attempted to re-construct the Roman invasion of Britain in 43 AD by extrapolating from the fragmentary accounts of Cassius Dio and Tacitus.  The author uses &quot;inherent military probability&quot; to fill in the many gaps in the historical record and thereby produce a coherent campaign narrative.<br />  The account starts with a chapter on Julius Caesar's expeditions to Britain in 54-55 BC, which gave the Romans their first direct experience of that island.  However the bulk of the book concerns the invasion of 43 AD and Peddie addresses this in six chapters, from the initial landings in Kent to the capture of Caratacus, the British rebel chieftain in 51 AD.  Although later rebellions in 61-70 AD are mentioned they are not detailed.  I was dissappointed by the lack of an aftermath chapter that covered the following decades of Roman expansion in Britain.<br /> Using the fragmentary information available, the author attempts to re-construct the Roman order of battle and he uses contemporary logistic information to support his claims.  A chapter on the Roman army and its logistics and a further appendix on Roman logistical matters are quite interesting.  There are a number of sketch maps used to depict the possible flow of the campaign, but few overall campaign maps.  The author has written with British audiences in mind and American readers will find it difficult to identify many of the small terrain features in the Kentish and Essex countryside that the author uses as references.  Better maps and diagrams to show alternative Roman courses of action would add greatly to this account.<br /> The author also uses photos of modern-day Roman re-enactors and terrain views to support the text.  While the terrain photographs are good, the use of re-enactors is questionable.  For example, a photo of &quot;Roman troops on the march&quot; show re-enactors wearing full armor with shields; however, unless contact was expected, Roman infantry were unlikely to march any great distance wearing full battle gear.  One of the few times that Caesar was almost defeated in Gaul occurred when his troops were ambushed during a river-crossing and the troops were not wearing all their equipment.<br /> While the author's use of &quot;inherent military probability&quot; is a laudable effort, it is also fraught with potential pit-falls.  What may seem logical to a 20th Century military mind, conditioned to the time-space conditions of industrialized warfare, may not have been apparent to a military mind in the 1st Century.  At one point, the author notes that one Roman legion was &quot;next to be found marching against the Deceangli of north-east Wales, an inexplicable and isolated operation which apparently bore no relationship to any obvious, established plan.&quot;  The author seems baffled because a full legion went on a punitive expeditionary to punish a minor Welsh tribe, while rebellion was brewing in other more important areas.  I would refer readers to Susan P. Mattern's excellent, Rome and the Enemy, which does an excellent job demonstrating that Roman strategic and operational planning were not directly analogous to modern-day practices.  The Romans rarely used maps in planning and were unconcerned about forming indefensible salients, as they demonstrated in Dacia and Pannonia.  Mattern uses many Roman sources to show that punishing rebels in a timely manner was more important to Roman minds than modern-concepts of time-phase operations.  Furthermore, the Roman forces committed to conquer and garrison Britain were a severe drain on the empire's resources for very limited gain, but the Romans didn't seem to mind.  The differences in Roman and contemporary military logic continually come up in this account, but the author skates along on the weak assumption that &quot;military logic&quot; is ageless.<br /> Overall, this is an interesting account of a little-known campaign.  However, I would becautious about calling this &quot;history,&quot; since the bulk of the narrative consists of extrapolations, hypotheses and some guesses.  Other than the facts that the Romans landed in 43 AD and had carved out an occupied zone by 51 AD, few other details are known.  Readers should therefore treat this account with caution.ould be cautious about calling this &quot;history,&quot; since the bulk of the narrative consists of extrapolations, hypotheses and some guesses.  Other than the facts that the Romans landed in 43 AD and had carved out an occupied zone by 51 AD, few other details are known.  Readers should therefore treat this account with caution.	2001-06-13
1961466:US	52533596	R1ZQBC32GJ2S2V	0140440844	584337600	The Fall of the Roman Republic: Six Lives (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	38	42	N	Y	Interesting but has Lazy Editing Syndrome	Plutarch was a Greek historian who wrote in the 2nd Century AD.  This work covers the lives of six key individuals in the twilight of the old Roman Republic from 105-43 BC.  Marius and Sulla were soldier-dictators who first sought to gain one-man rule.  They were followed by Crassus, Pompey and Caesar.  These three lives are the best in the book.  The final life is Cicero, the lawyer.  There is good military detail on Marius' defeat of the Cimbri, Crassus' defeat at Carrhae and Caesar's triumph at Pharsalus.  The Mithraditic Wars in Asia minor are important but difficult to follow due to the lack of any maps.  There are no great lessons here, other than the eternal struggle for power.  The editor was lazy in this book and should have provided a glossary of key individuals, since there are too many individuals with similar names. There are also no maps - a major flaw.	2001-06-13
1966429:US	52533596	R1L41GWJIZE01A	1841761818	609858204	Peking 1900: The Boxer Rebellion (Campaign)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A Solid Campaign Summary	In Peking 1900, Peter Harrington covers the outbreak of the Boxer Rebellion in China and the Allied campaigns in June-August 1900 to relieve the besieged foreign legations in the Chinese capital.  Although this campaign, with the dramatic siege of the legations in Peking, has been covered before, Harrington provides a useful summary of the campaign.  The author is currently the curator of the Anne S. K. Brown Military Collection at Brown University, and he has used his access to that resource to provide many hitherto unseen photographs and illustrations from the campaign.<br /> In the background to the campaign, Harrington discusses the spread of anti-foreign attitudes in China, the Sino-Japanese War of 1894-5 and the emergence of the Boxers.  Although this section is quite good, there is a subtle use of euphemisms to downplay foreign aggressions against China.  For example, the author states that the First Opium War (1839-1842) &quot;was the result of disagreements between Chinese officials and British merchants in the port of Canton particularly concerning the supply of opium from India.&quot;  In fact, the Chinese were trying to stop the British from importing highly addictive opium into China, where it was already causing social problems.  In modern terms, the Chinese were attempting to interdict the flow of narcotics into their country, and even by 19th Century standards of commerce, the Chinese had a right to determine what could be imported into their country.  In reference to the Second Opium War in 1860, Harrington states that, &quot;Peking was entered by Allied forces on 12 October 1860.&quot;  That's putting it very mildly.  In fact, the Anglo-French troops stormed and sacked the city.  The use of euphemisms such as &quot;disagreement&quot; and &quot;enter&quot; seem akin to the attempts by modern Japanese historians to downplay and justify their own aggressions in China.  Oddly, the Taiping Rebellion is not mentioned in this section, although it seriously weakened the Manchu administration of the country.<br /> The main campaign narrative covers the First Relief Column, the storming of the Taku Forts, operations around Tientsin, the siege of the legations in Peking and the final relief effort.  There are only two 3-D &quot;Bird's Eye View&quot; maps in this volume, and they cover the storming of the Taku Forts and the defense of the British legation.  The later map is particularly good.  Three illustrated battle scenes complement the text, in addition to many excellent photographs.  A chronology, and detailed order of battle for both sides is provided.  The section on opposing commanders is a bit too high-level, focusing only on the senior Chinese and Allied leaders, and the author might have provided a bit more detail on the junior officers such as John Jellicoe who later went on to major commands.  David Beatty, of Jutland fame, was wounded in the campaign but is not mentioned here.  Nor are details given on any American, Japanese, French or Russian commanders.<br /> One point that the author mentions but glosses over is very significant for readers interested in trying to understand Chinese concepts of war-making.  On 14 July 1900, the Chinese asked for a truce in Peking, despite the fact that the defenders in the legations were hard-pressed.  Harrington notes that the Chinese virtually had the legations in their grasp.  In fact, had the Chinese employed heavy artillery the siege would have been over very quickly, but the Chinese never made an all-out effort to storm the defenses.  The reason may lie in the peculiar Chinese penchant for &quot;teaching a lesson&quot; to disrespectful foreigners, which does not see total victory as necessary.  Merely besieging the embassies and inflicting losses may have been enough to chastise the 'foreign devils' in Chinese minds.  Such conceptions of warfare are useful for Americans to keep in mind, given the current growing level of Sino-American animosities.  The Peking Campaign provides a sober lesson that the Chinese mindset toward war is not the same as our own.<br /> To his credit, the author also provides some information on operations around Peking after the relief of the legations and some of the anti-foreign violence elsewhere in China.  However the author seems to miss the opportunity to point out the historical uniqueness of the Peking Campaign, as the only time that the British, Americans, Germans, Russians, Italians, French and Japanese have ever conducted joint military operations against a common foe.  Only a xenophobic reaction like the Boxer Rebellion could ever have produced such unheard-of cooperation between the world's great powers.Campaign provides a sober lesson that the Chinese mindset toward war is not the same as our own.  <br /> To his credit, the author also provides some information on operations around Peking after the relief of the legations and some of the anti-foreign violence elsewhere in China.  However the author seems to miss the opportunity to point out the historical uniqueness of the Peking Campaign, as the only time that the British, Americans, Germans, Russians, Italians, French and Japanese have ever conducted joint military operations against a common foe.  Only a xenophobic reaction like the Boxer Rebellion could ever have produced such unheard-of cooperation between the world's great powers.	2001-06-09
1966811:US	52533596	R3Q51VWTXI6GXN	1841762555	560548971	First Ypres 1914 (Trade Editions)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Good Campaign Narrative	First Ypres 1914, David Lomas' sequel to his earlier Mons 1914, is a decent summary of the relatively neglected period of October-November 1914 in Belgium.  During this period after the Battle of the Marne, the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) fought the Germans to a standstill over a fairly small patch of Belgian mud, thereby denying the Germans access to the Channel ports.  However in the process, the old pre-war British regular army was virtually destroyed.  The BEF of 1914 was an elite force, but not designed for the grinding attrition warfare that was quickly developing on the Western Front.<br />  The weakest part of this volume is the early sections on opposing commanders, opposing armies and opposing leaders.  David Lomas seems to feel that he has done his duty in regard to this vital introductory sections by jotting down a few paragraphs and moving on.  For example, the section on leaders barely amounts to one page of text and only comments on army-level commanders like Sir John French.  Similarly, the section on opposing armies is far too brief.  The Indian Corps that was dispatched to the Western Front was significantly different in training from the remainder of the BEF and this should have been highlighted in this section.  Although the extensive order of battle partly covers up the deficiencies of this section, it is skimpy on the French.  Opposing plans are also covered in far too brief a section.<br />  Clearly the author has put all his effort into the campaign narrative itself, and as in his earlier Mons 1914, the operational summary is quite good.  Excellent maps and photos add value to this account of First Ypres.	2001-06-08
1966956:US	52533596	RAOSWQM2IMQ5S	1579582036	928575664	The Hutchinson Atlas of Battle Plans: Before and After	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An Excellent Introduction to the Principles of War	At first glance, this thin, 223-page volume, which covers eighteen famous battles, might appear to offer little that is new or noteworthy.  However, such a first impression would be erroneous, for the Atlas of Battle Plans is an excellent addition to any military library.  This book should also be on the reading list of any serious military professionals.<br />  Although most of these engagements are well known, the essays written on each battle offer amazingly fresh perspectives.  The Atlas of Battle Plans attempts to discuss what was planned versus what occurred in eighteen battles.  These battles are divided up into six sections, each with three battles that are representative of a given condition.  These sections are: the classic ploys, surprise, misunderstanding, mission impossible, underestimating the enemy and narrow margins.  The section on underestimating the enemy for example, includes the battles of Austerlitz 1805, Isandlwana 1879 and Singapore 1942.  Each section has a brief introduction that summarizes the particular aspects of a type of battle.  Each battle essay discusses the plans for both sides and has a before and after map.  While the essays are succinct, they are also sufficient to detail the salient operational points.  There is also a bibliography following each essay.<br />  The writing style is both excellent and candid.  Typically British military historians like to portray disasters as &quot;gallant failures.&quot;  Not here.  In the section on the Blitzkrieg of 1940, the author notes that, &quot;what seemed the 'miracle of Dunkirk must not be allowed to obscure the scale of the disaster: roughly 61 Allied divisions had been destroyed, including the best Allied armoured and motorized formations.&quot;  In discussing the Battle of the Somme in 1916, that author notes that, &quot;it almost seems as if they [the British generals] sat down and deliberately worked out how to get their own men killed to no purpose.&quot;<br />  This volume would best be described as an introduction to the principles of war with case examples, rather than just a summary of battles.  Taken together, the essays drive home in text and graphics, the fundamentals of operational-level warfare. This book should be read and re-read by military professionals and serious historians.  The only failing of the volume is that not all the principles of war were addressed.volume would best be described as an introduction to the principles of war with case examples, rather than just a summary of battles.  Taken together, the essays drive home in text and graphics, the fundamentals of operational-level warfare. This book should be read and re-read by military professionals and serious historians.  The only failing of the volume is that not all the principles of war were addressed.	2001-06-08
1967000:US	52533596	RFQZ6UWJAAYPD	0140444068	875912549	The Later Roman Empire (A.D. 354-378)	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Rome on the Ropes	There are very few Western accounts that cover the final decades of the Roman Empire, but Ammianus Marcellinus provides modern-day readers with a gem from the late 4th Century AD.  Marcellinus, an ethnic Greek who served as a staff officer in the Roman army, attempted to pick up where Tacitus left off in writing a comprehensive history of the Roman Empire.  Unfortunately, only the sections of his work that covers the years 354-378 AD has survived.  However, even the remaining account provides vibrant insight into the declining years of the Roman Empire.  ....  Marcellinus vividly describes the bitter realities of unlimited warfare to the death.  He also participated in Julian's campaigns in Germany and the invasion of Persia in 363.<br /> Marcellinus' account is not for the faint of heart and it is readily apparent that his world was a very violent place, between foreign wars and civil strife.  In typical passages, an unruly general in Germany is \\"butchered with repeated sword thrusts,\\" while after a Roman victory over the German tribes the author notes a  \\"discolored river, foaming with barbarian blood.\\" Rome punishes barbarian aggression with Vietnam-style search & destroy missions in Germany, where Marcellinus notes that a typical raid entails \\"firing the frail homes in which they [Germans] sheltered, putting a host of people to the sword, enjoying the spectacle of numbers falling and others begging for mercy&#8230;\\" War against the Persians is even more brutal, where Marcellinus notes in one case where \\"we burned a lofty temple which crowned the citadel, and killed a few women whom we found there.\\"  Later, he calls a 'glorious achievement' whereby \\"a great and populous city was destroyed by the strength of Roman arms and reduced to dust and ruins.  Inside the Roman Empire, Marcellinus notes the frequent trials and witch-hunts, which result in seemingly arbitrary executions.  The cruelty of some Roman city magistrates is highlighted by their brutal dispensation of drumhead justice; for example, \\"when there was nothing of Diogenes left to torture he was burnt alive.\\"<br /> Although Marcellinus is a conservative and appears to favor Pagan traditionalism, he waffles on the subject of religion.  In one passage he claims that the \\"eternal providence of God was on our side\\" then later refers to \\"the goddess who controls the fortunes of the Roman world.\\"  Since Marcellinus served under both Pagan and Christian commanders, he probably courted both viewpoints.  On the subject of government, Marcellinus does hold with the fairly modern view that, \\"sovereign power is nothing if it does not care for the welfare of others and it is the task of a good ruler to keep his power in check.\\"<br /> The Emperor Julian, who only ruled briefly in 361-363 AD is clearly the hero of Marcellinus' account.  Julian was a successful military leader against the Germans and initially against the Persians, which probably gave an officer such as Marcellinus much to admire.  However the author does note Julian's obsessive pre-occupation with fortune-tellers and superstitions.  A careful reading of Marcellinus' description of the disastrous invasion of Persia in 363 indicates that the author probably exaggerated Julian's military talents.  Later sections highlight the rising threat of the Goths and the Huns to the Roman Empire, providing rich detail on these savage foes.<br /> ...  Nevertheless, Ammianus Marcellinus' account is indispensable for anyone interested in the final death throes of the Roman Empire.on of drumhead justice; for example, \\"when there was nothing of Diogenes left to torture he was burnt alive.\\"<br /> Although Marcellinus is a conservative and appears to favor Pagan traditionalism, he waffles on the subject of religion.  In one passage he claims that the \\"eternal providence of God was on our side\\" then later refers to \\"the goddess who controls the fortunes of the Roman world.\\"  Since Marcellinus served under both Pagan and Christian commanders, he probably courted both viewpoints.  On the subject of government, Marcellinus does hold with the fairly modern view that, \\"sovereign power is nothing if it does not care for the welfare of others and it is the task of a good ruler to keep his power in check.\\"  <br /> The Emperor Julian, who only ruled briefly in 361-363 AD is clearly the hero of Marcellinus' account.  Julian was a successful military leader against the Germans and initially against the Persians, which probably gave an officer such as Marcellinus much to admire.  However the author does note Julian's obsessive pre-occupation with fortune-tellers and superstitions.  A careful reading of Marcellinus' description of the disastrous invasion of Persia in 363 indicates that the author probably exaggerated Julian's military talents.  Later sections highlight the rising threat of the Goths and the Huns to the Roman Empire, providing rich detail on these savage foes.  <br /> ...  Nevertheless, Ammianus Marcellinus' account is indispensable for anyone interested in the final death throes of the Roman Empire.	2001-06-08
1967614:US	52533596	R2VMPOJOH7GIIO	1841761427	129453894	Mons 1914	Books	4	2	3	N	N	It Was a Delaying Action, Not a Victory	David Lomas covers the initial entry of the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) into the First World War in Mons 1914. In the first major British ground action of the war, a British division-size force delayed the lead elements of four German divisions at Mons on 23 August 1914.  However, the author's suggestion that Mons was a &quot;tactical triumph&quot; is at least irrelevant, if not absurd.  While it is true that the British inflicted roughly 6-10,000 casualties upon the attacking Germans in return for 1,600 British lost, the fact is that the result of the battle was an immediate retreat by the BEF to avoid encirclement.  Given that the Germans were conducting a meeting engagement after more than two weeks of advancing across Belgium it is not surprising that the BEF was able to slow them down (they did not stop them) for one day.  How the loss of one day in the German schedule can be termed a &quot;triumph&quot; seems odd.  Mons and the subsequent Le Cateau battle were delaying actions, not victories.<br />  The section of Mons 1914 that covers opposing commanders is short, featuring only the high-level army and corps leaders for both sides.  Similarly, the section on opposing armies is overly succinct, particularly in regards to the BEF.  The painful lessons learned from the Boer War and the Haldane reforms of 1907 all had an influence on the army that fought at Mons, but they are neglected in this account.  Also, the author should have made the effort to compare what kinds of infantry support weapons were available to British and German battalions in 1914.  The campaign order of battle details units on each side down to regimental level and is quite good.  The section on opposing plans fails is also too superficial, with the author failing to point out the logistical problems that undermined the efficacy of the German Schlieffen Plan.  To believe in the &quot;miracle of Mons&quot; or such, one must believe that the German offensive was destined to succeed had not the BEF interposed itself between them and Paris.<br />  The campaign summary itself covers the Battles of Mons and Le Cateau, as well as the Great Retreat, in the period 4 August - 1 September 1914.  Excellent photos and battle scenes, as well as the typically good Osprey campaign maps complement the account.<br /> This is a good summary of the opening phase of the war for the BEF, but readers should be careful of the author's overly pro-British bias at times.  The British role during this period was strictly a delaying action and had the French not successfully shifted forces to the Marne River area, then the British would have been incapable of stopping the German advance by themselves.  By focusing primarily on the BEF, this author tends to obscure the fact that it was the combination of both British delaying actions and agile French redeployments that eventually frustrated the Schlieffen Plan.had not the BEF interposed itself between them and Paris.  <br />    The campaign summary itself covers the Battles of Mons and Le Cateau, as well as the Great Retreat, in the period 4 August - 1 September 1914.  Excellent photos and battle scenes, as well as the typically good Osprey campaign maps complement the account.  <br /> This is a good summary of the opening phase of the war for the BEF, but readers should be careful of the author's overly pro-British bias at times.  The British role during this period was strictly a delaying action and had the French not successfully shifted forces to the Marne River area, then the British would have been incapable of stopping the German advance by themselves.  By focusing primarily on the BEF, this author tends to obscure the fact that it was the combination of both British delaying actions and agile French redeployments that eventually frustrated the Schlieffen Plan.	2001-06-08
1967812:US	52533596	R3HYFVDN8JYVGI	0471254657	975184062	The Blood Road: The Ho Chi Minh Trail and the Vietnam War	Books	3	13	15	N	N	A Good Synthesis, but Weak Conclusion	John Prados, a veteran writer of military history, has attempted to write the first detailed scholarly examination of the role of the Ho Chi Minh Trail in the Vietnam War.  The Trail, dubbed the &quot;Blood Road,&quot; was a vital pathway through the jungles of Laos and Cambodia that enabled the North Vietnamese regime to conduct a protracted guerrilla struggle in South Vietnam.  Without the Trail, the indigenous Viet Cong in South Vietnam would have been virtually on their own.  Nor is Prados content just to examine the history of the Trail; rather, he poses the critical question: could the United States have severed the Trail and thereby achieved a military victory in Vietnam?<br /> There is no doubt that The Blood Trail has historical value.  Prados has pulled together high and low-level accounts from both sides to produce the first real synthesis on this subject.  Unfortunately, far more is promised than is delivered by this book.  One major problem is the over-focus on Washington strategy sessions by Bundy, McNamara, LBJ, et al.  It seems that every book written on the Vietnam War has to detour into the Oval Office, no matter how much this ground has been trampled before. The only germane aspect of these familiar policy debates is the issue of whether the insurgency in Vietnam would be handled with diplomatic or military means.  Prados shows that severing the canal by a variety of military means was the preferred option.<br /> Although the Americans tried everything from ground attacks, bombing, mining and raiding, they could not sever the Trail.  Thus Prados concludes that, &quot;the truth is that the war fighters lost their gambit&quot;.  Well, that's rather obvious Dr. Prados, given that we lost the war.  Unfortunately, by asserting that we couldn't sever the Trail by military means (which actually is not proven, only that the means employed did not work), the author leaves the reader high and dry.  What then should the United States have done about the Trail?  Abandon South Vietnam in 1964?  Negotiate surrender?  How could we have known that interdicting the Trail would fail if we did not try it?  There is nothing worthy of being called a conclusion here.  I also believe that Dr. Prados overstates the effect of severing the Trail in any case.  Even if the US military had successfully interdicted the Trail for say 6-12 months, thereby disrupting the enemy build-up, Hanoi would merely have asked for a temporary cease-fire.  They could then use the period of cease-fire to repair any damage to the Trail.<br /> I think Prados misses the boat on this one.  The Vietnam War was not an exercise in military logistics, whereby if we had severed the enemy lines of communication their war effort would have collapsed.  Prados has been influenced too heavily by Jomini and Clausewitz, instead of Mao.  First, the enemy would always find a way to get some troops and supplies into South Vietnam, no matter how painful we made this to them.  Even if we stopped 80-90% of the troops and supplies - a real success - the remaining 10-20% would probably be enough to keep a low-level insurgency burning in South Vietnam.  The war was not about logistics, it was about motivation and protracted struggle.  The fact is that as long as Hanoi's leaders remained committed to victory, they could outlast any temporary US military successes. The United States never intended to adopt a large-scale, open-ended defense of South Vietnam for decades on end.  Thus, the Trail was probably not as critical to victory or defeat as Prados makes out.l?  Abandon South Vietnam in 1964?  Negotiate surrender?  How could we have known that interdicting the Trail would fail if we did not try it?  There is nothing worthy of being called a conclusion here.  I also believe that Dr. Prados overstates the effect of severing the Trail in any case.  Even if the US military had successfully interdicted the Trail for say 6-12 months, thereby disrupting the enemy build-up, Hanoi would merely have asked for a temporary cease-fire.  They could then use the period of cease-fire to repair any damage to the Trail.<br /> I think Prados misses the boat on this one.  The Vietnam War was not an exercise in military logistics, whereby if we had severed the enemy lines of communication their war effort would have collapsed.  Prados has been influenced too heavily by Jomini and Clausewitz, instead of Mao.  First, the enemy would always find a way to get some troops and supplies into South Vietnam, no matter how painful we made this to them.  Even if we stopped 80-90% of the troops and supplies - a real success - the remaining 10-20% would probably be enough to keep a low-level insurgency burning in South Vietnam.  The war was not about logistics, it was about motivation and protracted struggle.  The fact is that as long as Hanoi's leaders remained committed to victory, they could outlast any temporary US military successes. The United States never intended to adopt a large-scale, open-ended defense of South Vietnam for decades on end.  Thus, the Trail was probably not as critical to victory or defeat as Prados makes out.	2001-06-08
1974759:US	52533596	RF9NMKVXYIM5Q	185532573X	560548971	First Ypres 1914: The graveyard of the Old Contemptibles (Campaign)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Good Campaign Narrative	First Ypres 1914, David Lomas' sequel to his earlier Mons 1914, is a decent summary of the relatively neglected period of October-November 1914 in Belgium.  During this period after the Battle of the Marne, the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) fought the Germans to a standstill over a fairly small patch of Belgian mud, thereby denying the Germans access to the Channel ports.  However in the process, the old pre-war British regular army was virtually destroyed.  The BEF of 1914 was an elite force, but not designed for the grinding attrition warfare that was quickly developing on the Western Front.<br />  The weakest part of this volume is the early sections on opposing commanders, opposing armies and opposing leaders.  David Lomas seems to feel that he has done his duty in regard to this vital introductory sections by jotting down a few paragraphs and moving on.  For example, the section on leaders barely amounts to one page of text and only comments on army-level commanders like Sir John French.  Similarly, the section on opposing armies is far too brief.  The Indian Corps that was dispatched to the Western Front was significantly different in training from the remainder of the BEF and this should have been highlighted in this section.  Although the extensive order of battle partly covers up the deficiencies of this section, it is skimpy on the French.  Opposing plans are also covered in far too brief a section.<br />  Clearly the author has put all his effort into the campaign narrative itself, and as in his earlier Mons 1914, the operational summary is quite good.  Excellent maps and photos add value to this account of First Ypres.	2001-06-03
1977582:US	52533596	R18RW1LIGWEG2J	0471254657	975184062	The Blood Road: The Ho Chi Minh Trail and the Vietnam War	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Good Synthesis, but Weak Conclusion	John Prados, a veteran writer of military history, has attempted to write the first detailed scholarly examination of the role of the Ho Chi Minh Trail in the Vietnam War.  The Trail, dubbed the &quot;Blood Road,&quot; was a vital pathway through the jungles of Laos and Cambodia that enabled the North Vietnamese regime to conduct a protracted guerrilla struggle in South Vietnam.  Without the Trail, the indigenous Viet Cong in South Vietnam would have been virtually on their own.  Nor is Prados content just to examine the history of the Trail; rather, he poses the critical question: could the United States have severed the Trail and thereby achieved a military victory in Vietnam?<br /> There is no doubt that The Blood Trail has historical value.  Prados has pulled together high and low-level accounts from both sides to produce the first real synthesis on this subject.  Unfortunately, far more is promised than is delivered by this book.  One major problem is the over-focus on Washington strategy sessions by Bundy, McNamara, LBJ, et al.  It seems that every book written on the Vietnam War has to detour into the Oval Office, no matter how much this ground has been trampled before. The only germane aspect of these familiar policy debates is the issue of whether the insurgency in Vietnam would be handled with diplomatic or military means.  Prados shows that severing the Trail by a variety of military means was the preferred option.<br /> Although the Americans tried everything from ground attacks, bombing, mining and raiding, they could not sever the Trail.  Thus Prados concludes that, &quot;the truth is that the war fighters lost their gambit&quot;.  Well, that's rather obvious Dr. Prados, given that we lost the war.  Unfortunately, by asserting that we couldn't sever the Trail by military means (which actually is not proven, only that the means employed did not work), the author leaves the reader high and dry.  What then should the United States have done about the Trail?  Abandon South Vietnam in 1964?  Negotiate surrender?  How could we have known that interdicting the Trail would fail if we did not try it?  There is nothing worthy of being called a conclusion here.  I also believe that Dr. Prados overstates the effect of severing the Trail in any case.  Even if the US military had successfully interdicted the Trail for say 6-12 months, thereby disrupting the enemy build-up, Hanoi would merely have asked for a temporary cease-fire.  They could then use the period of cease-fire to repair any damage to the Trail.  <br /> I think Prados misses the boat on this one.  The Vietnam War was not an exercise in military logistics, whereby if we had severed the enemy lines of communication their war effort would have collapsed.  Prados has been influenced too heavily by Jomini and Clausewitz, instead of Mao.  First, the enemy would always find a way to get some troops and supplies into South Vietnam, no matter how painful we made this to them.  Even if we stopped 80-90% of the troops and supplies - a real success - the remaining 10-20% would probably be enough to keep a low-level insurgency burning in South Vietnam.  The war was not about logistics, it was about motivation and protracted struggle.  The fact is that as long as Hanoi's leaders remained committed to victory, they could outlast any temporary US military successes. The United States never intended to adopt a large-scale, open-ended defense of South Vietnam for decades on end.  Thus, the Trail was probably not as critical to victory or defeat as Prados makes out.	2001-05-31
1977996:US	52533596	R41GUHTH7YC3F	0140234691	748311379	Battleship	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	INTERSERVICE RIVALRY ROOT CAUSE OF DISASTER	On December 10, 1941, the British battleships HMS Prince of Wales and HMS Repulse were sunk off the coast of Malaya by Japanese torpedo aircraft.  This was the first time in history that a modern, well-armed dreadnought had been sunk on the high seas by aircraft alone.  The destruction of these two battleships with such apparent ease seemed to justify the pre-war prophecies of aviation advocates such as &quot;Billy&quot; Mitchell and to signal the end of the battleship era.  Martin Middlebrook and Patrick Mahoney present a very detailed and balanced account of this significant naval action and they attempt to assess its historical impact.<br /> As usual, Middlebrook provides excellent background information on the key individuals, the ships themselves, their mission and the circumstances of their deployment to Singapore.  Strategically, these ships were ordered by Winston Churchill to the Far East to help deter the coming war with Japan.  Admiral Phillips, a high level staff officer with an understanding of war plans, was given charge of the squadron and tasked with a deterrence mission.  Unfortunately, the battleships arrived in Singapore on 2 December 1941 and Japan attacked only six days later.  The deterrence function of the warships was thus a failure.<br /> Much of the book then focuses on Admiral Phillips controversial decision to sortie from Singapore in an attempt to find and destroy the Japanese invasion convoys bound for Malaya. Phillips went charging off into a very uncertain situation with only two battleships and four destroyers.  He apparently believed that his magnificent warships could fight their way through to smash the Japanese convoys, while suffering acceptable levels of damage.  Only a minimal effort was made to coordinate with the Royal Air Force for fighter cover prior to the sortie; a fighter squadron was dedicated to supporting the battleships but given no specific instructions.<br /> Prior to this account, I had always believed that the battleships were sunk rather easily by a well-coordinated Japanese air attack.  In fact, the Japanese squadrons were low on fuel and disordered, the attacks conducted piece-meal.  HMS Repulse did a superb job dodging about nineteen torpedoes before receiving fatal hits.  On the other hand, the much better-built HMS Prince of Wales was crippled early in the fight by a lucky torpedo hit that caused massive flooding and knocked out most of her electrical systems.  The Japanese achieved 11 torpedo hits out of 49 launched and 2 bomb hits of 23 dropped.  Just as the Prince of Wales was sinking, ten British fighters arrived over the scene.  Admiral Phillips had never radioed for air support and this squadron only arrived due to the independent call for assistance by HMS Repulse.  Middlebrook notes that had Phillips called for these fighters just two hours earlier, they could have disrupted the unescorted Japanese bombers and probably have helped save at least one of the battleships.<br /> The main culprit for this disaster is Admiral Phillips.  Middlebrook asserts that, &quot;throughout the operation, Phillips continued to show a disregard, almost a contempt, for the dangers of any type of air attack&quot; and, &quot;Phillips was confident that his ships could defend themselves and that he was determined not to ask for the help of another service.&quot;  Finally, &quot;two great ships and many good men were lost because one stubborn old sea-dog refused to acknowledge that he had been wrong.&quot;  However, despite this focus on the inter-service bickering as the main culprit of the disaster, the authors then go on to pass judgment on battleships as a whole.  After this disaster they assert, battleships were little more than &quot;floating artillery&quot; that could only operate under conditions of friendly air superiority.attleships were sunk rather easily by a well-coordinated Japanese air attack.  In fact, the Japanese squadrons were low on fuel and disordered, the attacks conducted piece-meal.  HMS Repulse did a superb job dodging about nineteen torpedoes before receiving fatal hits.  On the other hand, the much better-built HMS Prince of Wales was crippled early in the fight by a lucky torpedo hit that caused massive flooding and knocked out most of her electrical systems.  The Japanese achieved 11 torpedo hits out of 49 launched and 2 bomb hits of 23 dropped.  Just as the Prince of Wales was sinking, ten British fighters arrived over the scene.  Admiral Phillips had never radioed for air support and this squadron only arrived due to the independent call for assistance by HMS Repulse.  Middlebrook notes that had Phillips called for these fighters just two hours earlier, they could have disrupted the unescorted Japanese bombers and probably have helped save at least one of the battleships.  <br /> The main culprit for this disaster is Admiral Phillips.  Middlebrook asserts that, &quot;throughout the operation, Phillips continued to show a disregard, almost a contempt, for the dangers of any type of air attack&quot; and, &quot;Phillips was confident that his ships could defend themselves and that he was determined not to ask for the help of another service.&quot;  Finally, &quot;two great ships and many good men were lost because one stubborn old sea-dog refused to acknowledge that he had been wrong.&quot;  However, despite this focus on the inter-service bickering as the main culprit of the disaster, the authors then go on to pass judgment on battleships as a whole.  After this disaster they assert, battleships were little more than &quot;floating artillery&quot; that could only operate under conditions of friendly air superiority.	2001-05-31
1992079:US	52533596	R5Z7K2I1IS4T8	1855329948	557269048	Lützen & Bautzen 1813: The Turning Point (Campaign)	Books	2	33	43	N	N	A Biased, Germanic Re-interpretation of Napoleonic History	Author Peter Hofschr&ouml;er seems to be in business to prove that somehow, it was primarily through German force of arms that Napoleon's empire was brought down.  This addition to the Osprey Campaign series, covering Napoleon's 1813 Spring campaign in lower Germany, is premised on the idea that Germany was somehow the key to everything.  In his introduction, Hofschr&ouml;er states that, &quot;Napoleon needed the resources of Central Europe to sustain his dictatorship.  His domination of Germany was of vital importance to the continuation of his dynasty.&quot;  Right at the start of his account, Hofschr&ouml;er demonstrates a fatal misconception - that Napoleon's power was based on territory rather than his army.  Anyone with a fair understanding of Napoleon's empire should recognize the fallacy of this argument; Napoleon was strong as long as he had an effective army and as long as he had that tool, he could retake any ground temporarily lost.  It would also be false to overstate the contributions of Napoleon's German allies in maintaining his power base.<br /> This volume covers the period between the return of the defeated Grande Arm&eacute;e from Russia in January 1813 to the armistice in June 1813.  During this period, Napoleon demonstrated amazing powers of recovery; despite suffering enormous losses in Russia, he was able to assemble a new, if poorly-trained army, to face the resurgent Prussians and Russians.  This was a tremendous achievement, but gets only faint praise in this account.  Napoleon then used this newly-assembled army to inflict two defeats on the Prussian-Russian forces at Lutzen and Bautzen.  The defeated allies then asked for an armistice to regroup.  Incredibly, the German-centric Hofschr&ouml;er calls these two defeats &quot;the turning point&quot; because Napoleon failed to smash the allies completely.  That's like calling Dunkirk a victory.  It is ludicrous to call two consecutive defeats a turning point for one's cause.  Granted, Napoleon's victories were not complete and he suffered heavy losses in both battles.  Yet Napoleon had clearly demonstrated that he was not finished and that he was still quite deadly on the battlefield.  Napoleon's plan for the Battle of Bautzen was excellent and only sloppy execution by Marshal Ney prevented another Austerlitz-style triumph.  Hofschr&ouml;er is clearly ignorant of the adage that wounded animals are the most dangerous of all.<br /> Throughout this volume, the author demonstrates a very pedestrian style.  Paragraphs are clogged with over-use of place names and names of commanders.  Too much effort is spent telling the reader where various commanders marched, without saying much about what they did there.  Surprisingly, there is no attempt to use primary sources to add detail to the battle accounts.  Added to an opaque prose that is as clear as mud at times, is a complete breakdown of the normally excellent Osprey battle maps to graphically depict the action.  First, there are far too few 2-D maps to support the overall campaign narrative; key phases such as the preliminaries to Lutzen and Ney's flank march at Bautzen cannot be adequately followed from the existing maps.  Second, the 3-D &quot;Bird's Eye View&quot; maps are badly flawed in this volume, particularly the two covering Bautzen.  Most of the villages mentioned in the text, such as Ney's objectives of Preititz and Hockirch, are not even depicted on these maps.  Compare these two maps with other standard maps of the Battle of Bautzen and it is amazing how much detail was left out.  Without proper maps, this account bogs down.<br /> Nor is geographic information the only omission.  The author mentions the siege and capitulation of several French-held fortresses in Poland and Germany, but he neglects to mention that many of the French troops were released on condition not to fight for six months.  Hence many of these troops would be available for the fall campaign.  The author minimizes the death of Marshal Bessi&egrave;res on 1 May and totally misses the death of General Duroc on 22 May.  Both these men were close associates of Napoleon and Duroc's death in particular had a great effect on him.  The events pre-ceding Lutzen are misinterpreted as well; Napoleon did in fact order Ney to put out reconnaissance, which the later neglected to execute.  Hofschr&ouml;er blames Napoleon as well as Ney for this error.<br /> It is fair to say that the spring 1813 Campaign in Germany was indecisive and was not a turning point.  That is why both sides desired a cease-fire, in order to build-up their forces.  It is also unfair to suggest that German troops who fought against Napoleon (as opposed to the thousands of German troops from Bavaria, Saxony, Hesse-Cassel, and W&uuml;rttemberg who fought for him) made any greater contribution to his eventual defeat than the Austrians, British, Spanish and Russians who had fought him to a standstill.  This volume, which is based upon German chauvinistic hype, obscures the true meaning of the Lutzen-Bautzen campaign; Napoleon was still the best battlefield commander in Europe, even if his tools were no longer up to his imperial visions.on 1 May and totally misses the death of General Duroc on 22 May.  Both these men were close associates of Napoleon and Duroc's death in particular had a great effect on him.  The events pre-ceding Lutzen are misinterpreted as well; Napoleon did in fact order Ney to put out reconnaissance, which the later neglected to execute.  Hofschröer blames Napoleon as well as Ney for this error.  <br /> It is fair to say that the spring 1813 Campaign in Germany was indecisive and was not a turning point.  That is why both sides desired a cease-fire, in order to build-up their forces.  It is also unfair to suggest that German troops who fought against Napoleon (as opposed to the thousands of German troops from Bavaria, Saxony, Hesse-Cassel, and Württemberg who fought for him) made any greater contribution to his eventual defeat than the Austrians, British, Spanish and Russians who had fought him to a standstill.  This volume, which is based upon German chauvinistic hype, obscures the true meaning of the Lutzen-Bautzen campaign; Napoleon was still the best battlefield commander in Europe, even if his tools were no longer up to his imperial visions.	2001-05-20
1995867:US	52533596	R3T5XWH0A5ZW8A	1841761478	445881520	Adrianople AD 378: The Goths crush Rome's legions (Campaign)	Books	3	30	33	N	Y	A Good Summary, but Limited by Sources	It is not easy to write about Ancient military history because the quantity and quality of primary sources is often lacking.  In the case of Adrianople 378, the author relies heavily upon the second-hand account of Ammianus Marcellinus, a Roman officer who lived at the time of the battle. Unfortunately, Ammianus' account is sometimes vague and there are few other sources to shed further light on this climactic battle that broke the power of Rome's legions.  Key facts, such as the exact location of the battle and the numbers involved on both sides, remain matters for contention.<br /> Simon Macdowall, a retired British army officer, uses his recent military experience in the Balkans as a tool to help strip away some of the ambiguity from the Battle of Adrianople.  Based upon good terrain analysis, he makes a convincing case for locating the battlefield eight miles north of Adrianople.  However the author is not satisfied with the standard estimates of 40-60,000 Romans fighting 100,000 or more Goths.  Using the Notitia Dignitatum, a 4th Century Roman text on the Roman military, Macdowall extrapolates a possible Roman and Goth order of battle that is far smaller than standard accounts.  In the author's opinion, the Romans had only about 15,000 troops and the Goths had perhaps 20,000 men.  This is not very plausible.  As even Ammianus' noted, the Roman defeat at Adrianople was the worst defeat since Cannae in 216 BC.  It is hard to see how the loss of only 10,000 troops as argued by Macdowall could be a catastrophe that threatened the stability of the empire.  The standard accounts, which estimate Roman losses of 20-40,000 dead, are far more in line with the magnitude of this disaster.<br /> In the aftermath, the author asks, &quot;how was it that the best organized, equipped and disciplined army in the world could have been so thoroughly defeated by what amounted to an ad hoc force of refugees and deserters?&quot; Macdowall's response to his own question is twofold.  First, the overstretched empire could not muster sufficient quality troops to deal with multiple threats in a timely manner.  Second, Roman arrogance (common in situations where professional soldiers confront irregulars) caused them to underestimate their enemies and they offered battle without adequate reconnaissance.  Emperor Valens, the Roman commander, accepted battle in a very sloppy, ill-planned manner and the result was disaster.  In short order, the Roman cavalry was routed off the battlefield and the unsupported infantry was massacred.<br /> Organizationally, this volume begins with a 6-page introduction, followed by an excellent 17-page section on the opposing armies and 6 more pages on opposing leaders and plans.  Osprey seems to have rectified some of the shortcomings in these vital introductory sections from previous volumes.  Unfortunately, the actual battle narrative is only 3 pages in length, which seems overly short.  Granted the amount of detailed information is sparse, but the author could have done more than just quote chunks of Ammianus' description of the battle.  For example, since the Roman infantry was caught while deploying from column to line formation, a diagram and discussion of this key moment might have been useful.  Although there is a 7-page section on the aftermath and consequences, it says little about the 1/3rd of the Roman army that survived the battle.  The artwork in this volume is of mixed quality; two of the four battle scenes are rather shabby and do not relate to the battle.  A plate depicting the initial cavalry clash would have been more appropriate than a &quot;non-combat&quot; scene of migrating Goths.  The 2-D maps are very good in supporting the text, but there are only two of the 3-D &quot;Bird's Eye View&quot; maps instead of the normal three.  As for the illustrations, most are rather repetitive (e.g. too many illustrations of Roman shield designs) or not germane to the Battle of Adrianople.  In future, Osprey should use more relevant illustrations from its &quot;Men-At-Arms&quot; and &quot;Warrior&quot; scenes to round-out volumes (as it used to do earlier in the Campaign series), instead of over-using photos of random antiquarian bric-a-brac.should use more relevant illustrations from its &quot;Men-At-Arms&quot; and &quot;Warrior&quot; scenes to round-out volumes (as it used to do earlier in the Campaign series), instead of over-using photos of random antiquarian bric-a-brac.	2001-05-17
1997141:US	52533596	R3DGZAB2APJN2P	0304353051	200278898	The Road to Rivoli: Napoleon's First Campaign	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Superb Account of Napoleon's First Campaign	Road to Rivoli is a superb account of Napoleon's first campaign in Italy in 1796-1797.  Martin Boycott-Brown, a British scholar, spent seven years in Italy and has used his knowledge of the terrain, as well as Austrian and Italian sources, to present a very thorough account of this campaign.  Although not as well known as Napoleon's later campaigns during the empire, the first Italian campaign was probably his most brilliant.  Road to Rivoli sheds much new light on this pivotal campaign that began Napoleon on his brilliant military career.  The author concludes that, &quot;the campaign could be called a triumph of building and maintaining morale in the face of appalling difficulties of administration and supply.&quot;<br /> The book begins with two short chapters on the origins of the war and the weapons and tactics of the late Eighteenth Century.  The introductory framework built by these chapters is followed by two more that move to the more specific, focusing on the Austrian army and the French army.  These two chapters on the Austrian and French armies are short but valuable in outlining the strengths and weaknesses of the opposing forces.  Most accounts tend to portray the Austrian army as a professional - if stuffy and unimaginative - army that was well trained and equipped.  Similarly, the French Arm&eacute;e d'Italie is usually portrayed as a ill-equipped, demoralized mob prior to the arrival of Napoleon.  To his credit, Martin Boycott-Brown strives to dispel these accepted generalizations.  As he points out, Italy was a quiet, secondary theater for the Austrians and the units there were under strength and not fully equipped.  Disease was costing the Austrians over 900 soldiers per month just prior to the start of the campaign.  While the French army was short on supplies and discipline, this same force had beaten the Austrians at the Battle of Lonato five months prior to the arrival of Napoleon.  When he did arrive, Napoleon found an army that was in poor condition, but it did know how to fight.  Napoleon also benefited by gaining three very able subordinate commanders in Augereau, Massena and Serrurier.<br /> The author goes to great lengths to show the extensive intellectual preparation that Napoleon made for his first campaign.  Unlike the Austrian officers, who eschewed book learning, Napoleon read extensively about previous campaigns in Italy, the topography, economy and politics.  In modern terms, this would be called intelligence preparation of the battlefield, and it contributed in no small measure to his victory.  Once the campaign begins, Martin Boycott-Brown covers the rapid defeat of Piedmont and the spectacular crossing of the Po River in great detail.  Although these operations may seem minor in nature due to their rapid conclusion, they were anything but easy.  On the receiving end, the Austrians were stunned by Napoleon's first month of campaigning and their morale never fully recovered.<br /> The longest part of the campaign, from June 1796 to January 1797, is covered in the last 165 pages.  Napoleon was on the tactical defensive in this period, attempting to hold onto his gains in Italy while fending off Austrian counterattacks.  The Austrians made four great attempts to relieve their besieged fortress of Mantua - and Napoleon beat them all four times.  However the margin of victory was often narrow, and the French army suffered great losses.  The Road to Rivoli climaxes on the battlefield of that name, when Napoleon smashes the final Austrian attempt to break through to Mantua.  Following this victory, Mantua surrendered and Napoleon invaded the Tyrol and pushed toward Vienna.  The desperate Austrian government sued for an armistice, effectively ending the War of the First Coalition. If there is any disappointment in this book, it is the coverage given to the period following the Battle of Rivoli, which is covered in only a couple of pages.  Nor is there any analytical summary of the campaign; losses on both sides, political changes in Italy, etc.  Napoleon had not only demonstrated immense military talent in his first campaign, but he had in fact decisively ended the war.<br />  The maps in the book are superb, but unfortunately they lack annotations about French and Austrian movements.  The author also provides excellent and very detailed order of battle information on the Austrian army, but quite a bit less on the French.  The bibliography and endnotes are thorough.  For his first major effort in historical writing, Martin Boycott-Brown has made a very impressive start.on both sides, political changes in Italy, etc.  Napoleon had not only demonstrated immense military talent in his first campaign, but he had in fact decisively ended the war.  <br />  The maps in the book are superb, but unfortunately they lack annotations about French and Austrian movements.  The author also provides excellent and very detailed order of battle information on the Austrian army, but quite a bit less on the French.  The bibliography and endnotes are thorough.  For his first major effort in historical writing, Martin Boycott-Brown has made a very impressive start.	2001-05-16
2008992:US	52533596	RBLR73SUJQDAY	0807821187	761125926	Gettysburg--Culp's Hill and Cemetery Hill (Civil War America)	Books	2	15	30	N	N	Detailed but Obtuse Account of Gettysburg	Culps Hill &amp; Cemetery Hill is a typical Civil War history - heavily anecdotal and diary-driven.  Harry W. Pfanz, former chief historian of the National Park Service, certainly pulls together the mountains of information available on Gettysburg into a very detailed account that focuses on two relatively neglected aspects of the battle - the struggles on the northern flank of the &quot;fish hook&quot; for Culps Hill and Cemetery Hill.  There is no lack of factual data in this account, but it lacks emotive power.  Other parts of the Gettysburg, such as the struggles for Little Round Top or Longstreet's assault do carry that emotive element - that sense that victory or defeat will help to decide the entire battle.  However this is not the case for essentially sideshow operations like the Confederate attacks on Culps Hill and Cemetery Hill.  Despite General Lee's intent to envelop the Federal right flank, the Confederate efforts on this flank were half-hearted and confused.  Such half-heartedness and confusion carries over into this account.<br />  Like most Civil War writers, the author feels that he has done his duty merely by recanting how many attacks and retreats a given unit has made; it all becomes an opaque potpourri after awhile without meaning.  Military analysis is non-existent, again typical of most Civil War writing.  I still learned a little bit - I hadn't realized that the Union had accidentally marched part of one corps on Culp's Hill off to the south on 2 July and thus allowed the rebels to seize part of the hill.  I also didn't know much about Confederate activities in Gettysburg, which Pfanz discusses at length.  However this book is not the most interesting read, even for historians. At times, it reads as if the author had merely strung together all the text from the battlefield markers at Gettysburg.  On the plus side, the maps are very good and do an excellent job supporting the text.	2001-05-06
2012946:US	52533596	R1W79UT6HPH4D5	0304353469	198913149	Cassell Military Classics: The Peenemunde Raid: The Night of 17-18 August 1943	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Only RAF Large-Scale Precision Night Attack	The Peenem&uuml;nde Raid is an excellent account of the British bomber raid on the German V-2 development facility on the night of 17-18 August 1943.  This was the only large-scale RAF night precision-bombing attack in the whole war.  In early chapters, Middlebrook details the development of the German rocket research facility at Peenem&uuml;nde in 1937-1943 and the British intelligence effort directed against it.  Incredibly, in November 1939 an anonymous German, who mailed secret documents about Peenem&uuml;nde to British intelligence, gave the British a golden opportunity.  Unfortunately, the British believed the documents were fakes and disregarded them.  It was not until March 1943 that the British became aware of the rocket research at Peenem&uuml;nde.  Churchill promptly ordered RAF Bomber Command to attack the site as soon as possible.<br />  Bomber Command had never attempted a large-scale precision night attack before and indeed, this was the only occasion it was tried.  Three other innovations were employed: time &amp; distance runs, a master bomber and moving aim points.  However Middlebrook makes the point that the American 8th Air Force, which was trained for daylight precision attacks, was not consulted because Churchill wanted Peenem&uuml;nde to be an &quot;all-British&quot; operation.  If true, this was a stupid case of national pride overriding operational common sense.  On the bright side, the British mounted a highly successful Mosquito diversion over Berlin which drew off most of the 200 German night fighters launched and there was no fighter opposition for the first half of the raid.  British intruding night fighters also had a good night and shot down four Luftwaffe fighters, including two aces.  The Germans badly misjudged where the raid was going, partly since the Luftwaffe low-level commanders did not know the significance of Peenem&uuml;nde.  The raid did inflict significant damage on the housing area but it failed to hurt either the experimental works or V-2 production buildings.  About 150 Germans (incl. 2 scientists) and 600 foreign laborers were killed.  The RAF lost 41 aircraft and 290 men, almost all on the exit route when the night fighters finally showed up.  The moonlight night made it something of a duck shoot.<br />Middlebrook believes that the raid cost the Germans about 6-8 weeks worth of delay in producing the V-2s, which he says equates to saving perhaps 800 civilians in England.  After the raid, the Germans dispersed the production to underground facilities in central Germany.  The USAF made three raids in 1944, which hit the facility with much greater accuracy.  I believe Middlebrook sketches out the facts but fails to draw a conclusion; namely, that had the Americans attacked Peenem&uuml;nde in 1943 the damage to the facility would have been more severe.  Overall, this book is not quite as good as Middlebrook's other books on RAF bomber raids.2 production buildings.  About 150 Germans (incl. 2 scientists) and 600 foreign laborers were killed.  The RAF lost 41 aircraft and 290 men, almost all on the exit route when the night fighters finally showed up.  The moonlight night made it something of a duck shoot.  <br />Middlebrook believes that the raid cost the Germans about 6-8 weeks worth of delay in producing the V-2s, which he says equates to saving perhaps 800 civilians in England.  After the raid, the Germans dispersed the production to underground facilities in central Germany.  The USAF made three raids in 1944, which hit the facility with much greater accuracy.  I believe Middlebrook sketches out the facts but fails to draw a conclusion; namely, that had the Americans attacked Peenemünde in 1943 the damage to the facility would have been more severe.  Overall, this book is not quite as good as Middlebrook's other books on RAF bomber raids.	2001-05-02
2013113:US	52533596	R16M0EIP9BSQ7N	0929398904	623176864	Death Is Lighter than a Feather	Books	5	43	44	N	Y	A Superb Novel of Operation Olympic	David Westheimer has written a superb, fact-based novel that covers the first six weeks of Operation &quot;Olympic&quot;, the intended invasion of Kyushu in October 1945.  Of course in actuality, the invasion did not occur because the atomic bomb raids precipitated a Japanese collapse.  Westheimer invites the reader into a very-possible world where the atomic bombs have not been dropped either for political or technical reasons.  Given the continuing debate over the morality of the a-bomb attacks, this alternate world is well worth examining.  The book begins with a prologue (in earlier versions of the book, this was actually the epilogue) that provides the historical detail behind &quot;Olympic&quot;.  Eighteen chapters follow, each detailing the experiences of one or more Japanese or American characters in the invasion.<br /> The title is taken from the Japanese expression that, &quot;while duty is heavier than a mountain, death is lighter than a feather.&quot;  The real strength of this novel lies in the depictions of combat from the Japanese point of view, which is atypical for American readers.  Having lived and gone to college in Japan, I can attest that Westheimer strikes many a true note in these depictions.  Characters include resolute warriors, including a veteran fighter pilot, a determined corporal in a bunker and a fanatical battalion commander, but also cover Japanese civilians as well.  One Japanese sergeant complains about some of the new recruits called up to face the invasion: &quot;in his own regiment there was a private who had been a teacher in the middle school but it was known that he entertained subversive ideas and was not to be trusted with authority.  It was a measure of the Army's desperate need that he had been permitted to serve at all.  His proper place was prison, with other traitors and weaklings.&quot;<br />  The combat scenes are very well done and these scenes evoke a sense of hopeless futility at times.  The writing style is rich and detailed, but without irrelevant diversions.  Westheimer also has a knack for focusing on interesting characters and situations, which is particularly true of his American characters.  There is the UDT (underwater demolition team) frogman who bets that he will be the first American on Japanese soil and a B-29 pilot who affects a heroic attitude while concealing his cowardice.  There is even a Japanese-American college girl who was visiting relatives in Japan when the war broke out and desperately wants to be &quot;liberated&quot; by the invading GIs.  My particular favorite is the combat-happy US marine who believes that the Japanese are &quot;playing a game on him&quot; and that every Japanese soldier he kills is the same one.<br />The main point of the novel is to flesh out what most people with common sense could anticipate: the Americans will win but at great cost.  Again and again, the fanaticism of the Japanese defense astounds the Americans.  The novel ends by anticipating a Japanese surrender in January 1946, after many thousands have died on both sides.  This novel should be read by anyone interested in the Pacific War or the atomic bomb controversy.rich and detailed, but without irrelevant diversions.  Westheimer also has a knack for focusing on interesting characters and situations, which is particularly true of his American characters.  There is the UDT (underwater demolition team) frogman who bets that he will be the first American on Japanese soil and a B-29 pilot who affects a heroic attitude while concealing his cowardice.  There is even a Japanese-American college girl who was visiting relatives in Japan when the war broke out and desperately wants to be &quot;liberated&quot; by the invading GIs.  My particular favorite is the combat-happy US marine who believes that the Japanese are &quot;playing a game on him&quot; and that every Japanese soldier he kills is the same one.  <br />The main point of the novel is to flesh out what most people with common sense could anticipate: the Americans will win but at great cost.  Again and again, the fanaticism of the Japanese defense astounds the Americans.  The novel ends by anticipating a Japanese surrender in January 1946, after many thousands have died on both sides.  This novel should be read by anyone interested in the Pacific War or the atomic bomb controversy.	2001-05-02
2018353:US	52533596	R363TVNHSCZO6T	1841761923	473759501	The Armada Campaign 1588: The Great Enterprise against England	Books	3	9	10	N	Y	Decent but Too-Limited a Focus	The Armada Campaign 1588 is a decent summary of the Spanish attempt to invade England in the late 16th Century.  As per the standard Osprey Campaign format, Angus Konstam provides succinct but accurate sections on the origins of the campaign, the opposing leaders, opposing plans and opposing warships.  A detailed campaign chronology, blow-by-blow battle account and epilogue complete this survey of the Spanish expedition.  Konstam concludes that the Spanish fleet maintained fairly tight defensive formations throughout the week-long fighting and while the English had the upper hand in gunnery and maneuvering, the English were unable to defeat the armada outright.  Rather, the fortuitous fireship attack off Calais forced the Spanish to abandon the amphibious part of their mission and severe Atlantic storms demolished the once-mighty fleet on its return to Spain.  The maps and illustrations that support the text are excellent.<br /> However the problem with this volume is an over-focus on the English-Spanish naval battles in the channel.  This campaign was merely an episode in a very long Anglo-Spanish struggle for hegemony, not an isolated event.  For example, Drake's pre-emptive raid on Cadiz in 1587 inflicted far more damage on the preparations for the Armada than this account suggests.  Although Konstam provides a good order of battle table on the English and Spanish fleets, there is no information on the Duke of Parma's Spanish in the Netherlands or the Dutch rebels.  In fact, the Dutch fleet was far from insignificant in the campaign because it served to impede Parma's ability to mount an amphibious operation from the Netherlands.  Certainly the large Spanish galleons in the Armada were no solution to dealing with shallow-draft Dutch warships that could interdict the Spanish invasion barges.  Nor does Konstam mention the 18,973 soldiers that sailed with the Armada in his order of battle (there were five brigade-size tercios with the fleet).  Another area that is totally ignored is that of finances and logistics.  Nobody had ever supplied a fleet for extended operations with gunpowder weapons before and ammunition shortages were a major limiting factor, particularly for the British.  While Konstam mentions the &quot;Royal ships&quot; (ie. warships owned by the crown), he does not mention how expensive it was to maintain a standing navy.  Queen Elizabeth had to de-mobilize parts of the fleet in late 1587 when the Armada was delayed and then time re-mobilization in 1588 with the expected arrival of the Spaniards.  Disease was another factor that caused attrition of trained crews sitting around in ports.  All of these are examples of a broader view of the campaign, rather than just warships slugging it out in the channel.<br /> Nor does the author spend much effort in discussing follow-up operations or the impact of the failure of the Armada. The English expedition to Portugal in 1589 is ignored, as is the Spanish intervention in the French civil wars in 1588-9.  The Spanish expeditions of 1596-7 are mentioned, but not detailed.  The loss of fifty or more warships and 15,000 or more crewmen was a catastrophe for Spain that is not spelled out in this account. King Philip II sent the hurled the best force he could afford at England and failed utterly.  Reconstituting a similar force was beyond his means.  Finally, the Armada Campaign was a landmark in naval history due to the fact that it set the pattern for the next two centuries of fleet battles.otally ignored is that of finances and logistics.  Nobody had ever supplied a fleet for extended operations with gunpowder weapons before and ammunition shortages were a major limiting factor, particularly for the British.  While Konstam mentions the &quot;Royal ships&quot; (ie. warships owned by the crown), he does not mention how expensive it was to maintain a standing navy.  Queen Elizabeth had to de-mobilize parts of the fleet in late 1587 when the Armada was delayed and then time re-mobilization in 1588 with the expected arrival of the Spaniards.  Disease was another factor that caused attrition of trained crews sitting around in ports.  All of these are examples of a broader view of the campaign, rather than just warships slugging it out in the channel.<br /> Nor does the author spend much effort in discussing follow-up operations or the impact of the failure of the Armada. The English expedition to Portugal in 1589 is ignored, as is the Spanish intervention in the French civil wars in 1588-9.  The Spanish expeditions of 1596-7 are mentioned, but not detailed.   The loss of fifty or more warships and 15,000 or more crewmen was a catastrophe for Spain that is not spelled out in this account. King Philip II sent the hurled the best force he could afford at England and failed utterly.  Reconstituting a similar force was beyond his means.  Finally, the Armada Campaign was a landmark in naval history due to the fact that it set the pattern for the next two centuries of fleet battles.	2001-04-28
2021283:US	52533596	R2IZRHTRG46PW6	185367415X	926944703	1812: Napoleon Invasion Russia-Softbound	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A Classic Soldier's Account of the Russian Campaign	1812 is a compilation of Austin's three earlier books on Napoleon's invasion of Russia.  Austin's work is deservedly a classic, but due to its complexity is not for novices to Napoleonic history.  Nor should this work be read by the faint-hearted, given some of the rather gory and explicit details of a rather savage chapter in the history of warfare.  This book is not a comprehensive history of the campaign, since the main focus is on those units that marched to and then retreated from Moscow.  Austin uses 100+ eyewitness accounts as the basic material to stitch together a portrait of the campaign as seen by the participants.  Readers who seek discussions of grand strategy, the causes of the war or detailed orders of battle will be disappointed by this approach (they should instead turn to Chandler's and Riehn's excellent accounts), but those who want to gain a birds-eye view of the campaign will be very pleased.<br /> Although the account starts with the invasion in June 1812 and covers the battles of Smolensk and Borodino, the most gripping part of Austin's work is the last 400 pages on the retreat from Moscow.  The reader will find this account both agonizing and spellbinding, due to the appalling suffering and courage in adversity.  This book is about real soldiering, when the chips are down, you are starving and the temperature is sub-zero.  Although destroyed by the retreat, the bravery and ability of the soldiers of the Grande Arm&eacute;e shine in these pages.  On the other hand, the battle accounts, such as Borodino, are good but a bit confusing and not particularly unique.  Better maps with annotations where the major characters were located on the battlefield would have been very helpful.<br /> Unfortunately, this very well researched and written book tends to fall apart a bit in the last few chapters (perhaps due to writer fatigue, after 1100 pages).  Austin's account of the campaign ends once Marshal Ney leads the French rearguard across the Niemen River on 12 December.  However, the retreat lasted two more weeks across a Prussia that was about to declare war on France.  Austin provides no accounts of the final tally of survivors at Konigsberg.  After following many of these characters for 1100 pages, Austin only informs the reader of the final fate of a few eye-witnesses, and then only in footnotes.  A solid epilogue with notes on each character is missing.<br /> These eyewitness accounts are the heart and soul of Austin's monumental work.  However, certain facts should be made clear.  First, they are not representative accounts; staff officers and inner-circle types make up 50% of the accounts, with only a handful of enlisted soldiers, NCOs or junior officers included.  This is for the obvious reason that very few of the later made it back to publish accounts, but the staff officers had a better chance for survival.  The second fact relates to the subjectivity of some accounts.  There are cases of exaggeration, distortion and lies in the accounts, which Austin does his best to correct.  One eyewitness for example, claims that the Grande Arm&eacute;e lost all its artillery in Russia which Austin corrects in a footnote (the French brought back at least 50 artillery pieces).  Thus it is critical for readers to glance frequently at the footnotes to see where accounts are misleading.  Nevertheless, Austin cannot eliminate the subjective factor in these accounts. One glaring case I found that goes without notice by Austin involves one of the principle accounts, by Colonel Lubin Griois, commanding the light artillery in the 3rd Cavalry Corps.  Griois constantly complains about General Armand Lahoussaye, who took over the corps after the Battle of Borodino in September 1812.  According to Griois, Lahoussaye is new to the corps and is an &quot;imbecile&quot;.  Austin repeats this every time he refers to Lahoussaye.  Unfortunately, this does not mesh well with the facts.  According to the authoritative dictionary on French generals by Georges Six, Lahoussaye had been a division commander in the corps for nine months so he was not a newcomer as Griois claims.  Furthermore, Griois fails to mention that Lahoussaye had 20 years of combat experience in the cavalry, including the 1805-1807 campaigns in central Europe and 1808-1811 in Spain.  Nor does Griois mention that Lahoussaye was seriously wounded at Borodino, which probably interfered with his command ability.  Austin fails to mention that Lahoussaye was a baron in the Legion of Honor and that his name is inscribed on the Arc d'Triomphe.  Napoleon did not allow &quot;imbeciles&quot; to command for 20 years and thus, Griois' account is probably a case of axe grinding against a former superior.  Austin should have provided the background on Lahoussaye to provide balance.<br /> Finally, a critical factor is how Austin uses the accounts, which are often missing crucial pieces.  Based upon the pieces of the accounts he offers for example, it seems that almost nobody made it back from Russia.  Colonel Chlapowski, commander of the Polish Lancers in the Guard, figures prominently in Austin's account, as do the Lancers themselves.  Austin infers that almost all of the Lancers died escorting Napoleon out of Russia.  Actually, in Chlapowski's full account, he states that the Lancer's went into Russia with 915 men and came out with 422.  Austin uses partial accounts to suggest that the Old Guard came out with only a handful of men.  While the Old Guard suffered very heavy losses, it went in with 5,286 infantrymen and came out with 1,430.<br /> Nevertheless, 1812 is an excellent account of the Russian campaign.  Reading it will certainly give one an excellent &quot;feel&quot; for the events, if not for all the facts.  Therefore, this book should be used in conjunction with other standard campaign histories for balance.ls by Georges Six, Lahoussaye had been a division commander in the corps for nine months so he was not a newcomer as Griois claims.  Furthermore, Griois fails to mention that Lahoussaye had 20 years of combat experience in the cavalry, including the 1805-1807 campaigns in central Europe and 1808-1811 in Spain.  Nor does Griois mention that Lahoussaye was seriously wounded at Borodino, which probably interfered with his command ability.  Austin fails to mention that Lahoussaye was a baron in the Legion of Honor and that his name is inscribed on the Arc d'Triomphe.  Napoleon did not allow &quot;imbeciles&quot; to command for 20 years and thus, Griois' account is probably a case of axe grinding against a former superior.  Austin should have provided the background on Lahoussaye to provide balance.  <br /> Finally, a critical factor is how Austin uses the accounts, which are often missing crucial pieces.  Based upon the pieces of the accounts he offers for example, it seems that almost nobody made it back from Russia.  Colonel Chlapowski, commander of the Polish Lancers in the Guard, figures prominently in Austin's account, as do the Lancers themselves.  Austin infers that almost all of the Lancers died escorting Napoleon out of Russia.  Actually, in Chlapowski's full account, he states that the Lancer's went into Russia with 915 men and came out with 422.  Austin uses partial accounts to suggest that the Old Guard came out with only a handful of men.  While the Old Guard suffered very heavy losses, it went in with 5,286 infantrymen and came out with 1,430. <br /> Nevertheless, 1812 is an excellent account of the Russian campaign.  Reading it will certainly give one an excellent &quot;feel&quot; for the events, if not for all the facts.  Therefore, this book should be used in conjunction with other standard campaign histories for balance.	2001-04-25
2027721:US	52533596	RNX9QS7JE52TF	1853674133	56244285	Napoleon's Regiments: Battle Histories of the Regiments of the French Army, 1792-1815	Books	5	6	10	N	Y	Pure Gold For the Napoleonic Researcher	In Napoleon's Regiments, Digby Smith, a well-noted Napoleonic scholar, has compiled a detailed list of the units that formed the French army between 1792-1815.  The Imperial Guard, Line Infantry, Light Infantry, Cavalry, Artillery and other units are covered, usually at the regimental level.  Typical entries list a unit in numerical order by regiment, listing it's pre-Revolutionary ancestors, it's title in 1792, colonels and personalities, campaigns and officer casualties.  There is a huge amount of data in this thin volume and t should be in every Napoleonic library.<br />  This is a superb volume.  However while using it to conduct research on the French siege of Toulon in 1793, I noted that Smith had included information of questionable veracity.  On page 49, under the listing for the 1st Battalion/28th Infantry, he lists a Sergeant Eberle who killed an Austrian major and for his act, was given a field promotion by General Dugommier.  Unfortunately, there were no Austrian troops sent to Toulon due to political complications with Piedmont.  While the 1/28th and Dugommier were at Toulon, there were no Austrians or Croats as Smith's entry claims.  Later, on page 138, he claims that the &quot;Royal Louis&quot; battalion formed in Toulon was composed of men from the disbanded 2/28th Battalion.  This is very unlikely. Admiral Hood's journal clearly shows that the French troops that remained in Toulon were mostly disarmed and used as civil police.  The Royal Louis battalion probably inducted a few of these men, but most of its 385 troops came from disgruntled dockyard workers and petit bourgeoisie worried about Jacobin revenge.  In both cases, Smith's entries display questionable information.<br />Despite some errors, which is to be expected in a work of this depth, this is a wonderful supplement for napoleonic research.  Hopefully, reader comments will clean up errors for future editions.	2001-04-19
2035375:US	52533596	RWU0G50IWRUOS	1855329913	603579662	Edgehill 1642: First battle of the English Civil War (Campaign)	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	A Good Introduction to the English Civil War	Edgehill 1642, which covers the opening campaign of the English Civil War, is an excellent introduction to that conflict.  Authors Keith Roberts and John Tincey enrich this addition to the Osprey Campaign series with in-depth research on the opposing commanders, doctrine and tactics.<br /> Following the standard Osprey format, the book starts with a good section on the origins of the Civil War (although the accompanying illustrations in this section are not very supportive), followed by an excellent campaign chronology.  The next section, on opposing leaders, is broken down into sub-sections not only by Roundheads and Cavaliers, but also by foot, cavalry and artillery.  There is no separate section on opposing plans, but strategic perspectives are addressed in the section on the opening moves of the campaign.<br /> In a surprising but welcome departure from standard Osprey format, the authors devote 23 whole pages (a quarter of the volume) to the section on opposing armies.  This section, entitled &quot;Raising the Armies,&quot; details a number of germane issues, such as the difference between contemporary Dutch, German and Swedish tactics (with excellent diagrams).  The organization of foot, horse and artillery units is discussed, as well as unit structures and formations employed.  Two points of relevance to the battle are discussed herewith; first, that the armies were about equal in strength, but second, the Royalist forces were hampered by equipment shortages and poorly-trained infantry.<br /> The four battle scenes that accompany the section on the battle are excellent, as well as the 2-D and 3-D maps.  The result of the battle was mixed, with the Royalist cavalry routing their opposite numbers, but the Royalist infantry was smashed by a well-timed Roundhead counterattack.  Both armies pulled back to lick their wounds.  Although King Charles made a thrust toward London after the battle, he withdrew to Oxford after it became obvious that he lacked the numbers to storm the capital.  Probably the only criticism of this volume is the lack of a separate appendix on order of battle.  The information is included in several diagrams and the maps, but there is no comprehensive list.  Also, the information on casualties is a bit vague.  Otherwise, this is a welcome addition to any collection on 17th Century warfare.mbers to storm the capital.  Probably the only criticism of this volume is the lack of a separate appendix on order of battle.  The information is included in several diagrams and the maps, but there is no comprehensive list.  Also, the information on casualties is a bit vague.  Otherwise, this is a welcome addition to any collection on 17th Century warfare.	2001-04-13
2041717:US	52533596	R3RF8DOGPC61IR	1855329689	569875570	Corunna 1809: Sir John Moore’s Fighting Retreat (Campaign)	Books	4	14	15	N	Y	A Thorough, Professional Account	Corunna 1809 is a thorough, professional account of the famous British retreat in the winter of 1808/1809.  Author Philip Haythornthwaite is an acknowledged expert on Napoleonic studies and he uses his considerable expertise to build a well-constructed narrative of this first major campaign in the drawn-out Peninsula War.<br /> The author follows the standard Osprey Campaign series format and succinctly summarizes the origins of the campaign, the opposing leaders and the opposing armies in the opening chapters. Oddly, there is no separate section on opposing plans, as there normally is in Osprey titles, although this information is partly addressed in the main campaign narrative.  Actually, the issue of opposing plans and objectives is critical for assessing the outcome of the Corunna campaign and Haythornthwaite's omission may have been intentional due to the controversial nature of the outcome.  The British expeditionary force was dispatched to Lisbon under General Sir John Moore to support the Spanish in their effort to oppose French domination.  Although the willingness of the Spanish to cooperate with the British and the size of the French invasion were poorly understand by the British, Moore marched his army deep into the Iberian hinterland. Nearing Madrid, Moore became aware that the French had crushed organized Spanish resistance and had occupied Madrid.  A vast French army of over 200,000 troops under Napoleon was fast approaching the tiny 20,000 man British army.  Moore elected to retreat to Corunna, pursued by the French corps of Marshal Soult and Ney.  It was a bitter three-week retreat through winter snow and sleet, across extremely rugged and treacherous terrain.<br /> Haythornthwaite naturally focuses on the superb tactical skill of the British rearguard under Lord Paget, which inflicted several rebuffs upon the pursuing French.  Yet tactical success was accompanied by a virtual disintegration of morale and discipline within the retreating British army.  Over 5,000 British troops were lost in the retreat, many of whom were drunk on looted stores.  Since this was the only occasion in the Napoleonic Wars where the French captured substantial numbers of British prisoners, a bit more attention could have been focused on this disintegration.  Once Moore reached Corunna and was about to evacuate by sea, the Marshal Soult launched a last-minute attack on the British defenses south of the port.  The result was tactically indecisive but Moore was killed in the brief battle.  The Royal Navy evacuated the British troops the next day.  Of course the real question on the battle is why Soult would launch a one-division probing attack against the British, particularly when he had a 5-1 or better superiority in artillery.  A fixing attack on a withdrawing force makes sense, but why did the French not rely more heavily on their artillery advantage (Moore was killed by French artillery)?  As the French failed to fix the British force, the battle was a tactical success for the British. However in strategic terms, the Corunna campaign was undoubtedly a British defeat since a British army had been forced to evacuate after losing 6,000 troops and achieving no real successes.<br /> British historians always like to portray hard-fought retreats and withdrawals like Corunna or Dunkirk as victories, and Haythornthwaite is no exception in this account.  He suggests that Moore's fighting retreat diverted Napoleon from advancing on Lisbon and thereby gave the British time to regroup in Portugal. This is entirely specious.  Napoleon left Spain because of the building crisis in central Europe, with Austria about to re-enter the war.  It was the Hapsburg's, not Moore's tiny army, which diverted French attention.  Had Austria not begun to mobilize in the winter of 1808/1809, it is quite possible that Napoleon might have remained longer in the Iberian Peninsula.  Certainly larger French forces would have been available in the summer of 1809.  Itis even possible that the great clash between Napoleon and Wellington might have occurred in Portugal in mid-1809, but for the Hapsburgs.<br /> Corunna 1809 is an excellent account of this campaign, and the maps and artwork are superb.  However, readers should be aware of the author's pro-British bias in evaluating the results of the campaign.  When the dust settled, it was the French army that held Corunna, not the British.It is even possible that the great clash between Napoleon and Wellington might have occurred in Portugal in mid-1809, but for the Hapsburgs.  <br /> Corunna 1809 is an excellent account of this campaign, and the maps and artwork are superb.  However, readers should be aware of the author's pro-British bias in evaluating the results of the campaign.  When the dust settled, it was the French army that held Corunna, not the British.	2001-04-07
2044920:US	52533596	RN2A1TTZO9BG4	089526269X	900274536	Shred of Honour	Books	3	13	14	N	Y	Interesting but Implausible Action Yarn	Given the success of previous Napoleonic series, such as Hornblower, Sharpe and O'Bannon, it seems only natural that someone would attempt the seemingly effortless act of writing yet another novel of late 18th Century nautical yarns. Tom Connery has done just that. To be sure, there are new twists here, such as the focus on the Royal Marines and the author makes ample use of historical characters for his large cast of supporting figures.<br />The novel is set during the four-month siege of Toulon in 1793, with the protagonist being Lieutenant George Markham, a thirty-year old officer in the &quot;65th Foot&quot; (which did not serve at Toulon). Markham is portrayed as a &quot;classic rogue&quot;: a bastard, alleged coward, rake with women, insubordinate but brave in the face of the enemy. Connery develops this character too slowly and with too much baggage. The great &quot;revelation&quot; of his supposed cowardice in an incident in the Battle of Guilford Courthouse in 1781 is rather inane. Then, after this &quot;disgrace&quot;, Markham served in the Russian Army for a time. He also speaks French fluently and likes to play the role of females in plays. After awhile, Markham appears to be overly-complex and contrived. He is also misperceived by virtually everyone around him, and the book is full of snarling superiors who wish to see Markham dead and surly subordinates who wish the same. There is also Fouquert, a French Jacobin cut-throat, thrown in as the main nemesis.<br />In short, Markham's tiny thirty-man mixed army/marine detachment is sent ashore at Toulon and quickly finds itself in a desperate blocking action at the village of Ollioules. Connery has loosely based this novel on the real siege of Toulon, but only loosely. In the real skirmish at Ollioules, about 600 Spanish and British defeated a like-size force of French. Instead, Connery portrays Markham's thirty men fighting off over one thousand French infantry, virtually single-handed. In fact throughout the novel, Connery takes little effort to depict the efforts of other troops, which makes it seem that the entire British defense rests on Markham's little troop of misfits. There is plenty of action in the novel, in fact there is too much. The reader never really gets a good handle on this odd character because he is always dodging bullets or making love quickly with a passing French con-artiste to spend much time thinking or speaking.<br />One of the best scenes in the novel, when Markham's detachment is ordered to attack one of Napoleon's batteries in broad daylight, is exciting but also troubling. Markham succeeds by using advanced light infantry tactics that were non-standard for line infantry. How would he have learned these tactics? A better written novel would have shown some mentorship, some older, experienced soldier who would have passed on tactical wisdom to Markham. Not here. All Markham's superiors are depicted as idiotic blowhards. Markham apparently learns by ESP or something. Connery also goes to great lengths to make the Spanish look deceptive, including a Spanish colonel who is in collusion with a French spy. These departures from historical veracity and plausibility only serve to make the novel more contrived.<br />As one would expect, Markham and a handful of his men survive the ordeal after too many near-death encounters, all set for the next novel. By the end, Markham has won &quot;a shred of honor&quot; and the respect of at least his men, if not the reader.the novel, Connery takes little effort to depict the efforts of other troops, which makes it seem that the entire British defense rests on Markham's little troop of misfits. There is plenty of action in the novel, in fact there is too much. The reader never really gets a good handle on this odd character because he is always dodging bullets or making love quickly with a passing French con-artiste to spend much time thinking or speaking. <br />One of the best scenes in the novel, when Markham's detachment is ordered to attack one of Napoleon's batteries in broad daylight, is exciting but also troubling. Markham succeeds by using advanced light infantry tactics that were non-standard for line infantry. How would he have learned these tactics? A better written novel would have shown some mentorship, some older, experienced soldier who would have passed on tactical wisdom to Markham. Not here. All Markham's superiors are depicted as idiotic blowhards. Markham apparently learns by ESP or something. Connery also goes to great lengths to make the Spanish look deceptive, including a Spanish colonel who is in collusion with a French spy. These departures from historical veracity and plausibility only serve to make the novel more contrived. <br />As one would expect, Markham and a handful of his men survive the ordeal after too many near-death encounters, all set for the next novel. By the end, Markham has won &quot;a shred of honor&quot; and the respect of at least his men, if not the reader.	2001-04-04
2044939:US	52533596	R3HG8QC24X7NWK	1841761788	659134229	Iwo Jima 1945: The Marines raise the flag on Mount Suribachi (Campaign)	Books	2	21	22	N	Y	Decent Summary, but too much missing information	Iwo Jima 1945 is an attractive, but ultimately flawed, addition to the Osprey Campaign Series.  While British author Derrick Wright succeeds in capturing the pathos of this dramatic battle, he skips too lightly over the factual basis.  The book certainly provides a useful and detailed summary of the five-week long battle on Iwo Jima, but there are far too many omissions for even a short campaign history such as this.<br /> In the first chapter on the origins of the campaign, Wright fails to note that although Iwo Jima had been under Japanese control since the late 19th Century that the first airfield on the island was not constructed until 1943.  As late as February 1944, the island was virtually undefended, with only 1,500 naval personnel stationed there.  In this section, Wright makes critical omissions in failing to note the first major American air strikes on the island in June 1944, followed by intermittent naval bombardments and B-24 attacks in November-December 1944.  The Japanese Army only started a major effort to reinforce and fortify the island in July 1944 and the underground cave network was only about 15% completed when the invasion began.  US submarines were partly successful in interdicting the flow of Japanese reinforcements to the island, with 1,500 Japanese troops lost enroute.  All these facts are very pertinent to the pre-invasion phase, but go unmentioned by Wright.<br /> The second chapter, on opposing commanders, covers the US commanders effectively, but mentions only Lieutenant General Kuribayashi on the Japanese side.  Wright takes time to tell the reader about Kuribayashi's height and &quot;pot belly,&quot; but not the more relevant facts about his recent service in China in 1940-1943.  Kuribayashi was a cavalry officer, not a samurai (which was a state of mind by 1945, not a branch of service).  The third chapter, on opposing forces, is so short at only four paragraphs as to seem obnoxious.  Wright offers only generic comments about the opposing forces, with no detail about tactical organization, doctrine, equipment or strengths and weaknesses.  The US 3rd and 4th Marine Divisions were veteran units but the 5th was an untried division.  While noting that the total Japanese garrison was 21,000, Wright fails to break this down properly; 15,500 were army and 5,500 were navy.  Information is widely available about this garrison but unmentioned in this account.  For example, the fact that the Japanese had 120 guns larger than 75mm with 100,000 rounds, 130 howitzers, 60 anti-tank guns and 27 tanks is rather important in assessing the defense.  The Japanese garrison had plenty of food but were chronically short of water.  Nor does the order of battle information provided in the appendices clear this up; the appendices fail to even list any American tank, artillery, engineer or aviation units that supported the invasion.<br /> The heart of this volume is the day-by-day summary, which Wright pulls off fairly well.  The artwork battlescenes that accompany the text are excellent. However, the lack of sufficient 2-D maps makes it particularly difficult to track the first week of the battle.  A good sketch or diagram of a typical Japanese defensive position (readily available from sketches made by US Seabees) would have been worthwhile in the campaign summary.  Also, Wright makes the three-day naval preliminary bombardment seem like the only effort to suppress the defenders, which it was not.<br /> Finally, the aftermath section fails to address casualties.  While Wright gives US casualties at interim points of the battle, he fails to mention the final total:  over 6,800 dead and 18,000 wounded.  The fact that 212 Japanese were captured out of 21,000 troops is also omitted.  Finally, it was on April 7, 1945 that P-51 fighters flew from Iwo Jima to provide the first escort for B-29s to raid Japan.  Wright missed that fact, too.  In sum, the plethora of omitted data greatly reduces the value and reliability of this account.s account.	2001-04-04
2045344:US	52533596	RFWMMXUKB8RKB	0140170413	803838595	The Price of Glory: Verdun 1916	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A Classic that is becoming timeworn	There is no doubt that Alistair Horne's The Price of Glory, first written in 1962, is a classic of military history.  Horne's account of the sanguinary ten-month Battle of Verdun in 1916 is still the best English-language account of the campaign.  The Price of Glory also represents the middle volume of Horne's trilogy on the Franco-German wars fought between 1870 and 1940.  Certainly anyone with an interest in the First World War should read and reread Horne's book.<br /> Horne's descriptions of the German capture of Fort Douamont and the underground battles in the corridors of Fort Vaux are told dramatically and with great style.  The battles for the hills on the left bank of the Meuse and the constant see-saw of German attacks and French counterattacks round out the narrative.  It should be noted though, that Horne's primary focus is on the high-level strategy behind the battle.  German General Falkenhayn's intent to fight a limited attritional battle at Verdun in order to bleed the French white is explained, although the failure of the German's to follow through on the commander's intent should provide examples in the danger of &quot;mission creep&quot;. There is much emphasis on French generals, too, including Joffre, de Castelnau, Petain, Mangin and Nivelle.  Although diary and post-war accounts from junior soldiers are included, their accounts seem intended more to embellish the main story.<br /> In 1962, this was a ground-breaking book.  Unfortunately, Martin Middlebrook demonstrated a superior methodology in his First World War books on the Somme and the Kaiserschlacht.  Compared to Middlebrook, parts of Horne's book appear somewhat shallow.  For example, although Horne notes that 70% of the French army passed through Verdun, he mentions only a few units by name.  Certainly Horne should have provided a complete order of battle of all French and German divisions that fought at Verdun.  The single sketch map of the battlefield is barely adequate.  Unlike Middlebrook's methodology, Horne has no chapter that attempts to analyze the results of the battle; he opines that nobody actually won the battle but this seems totally subjective.  While the French victory may have been pyrrhic in nature, the fact is that the French achieved their goal of holding Verdun while the Germans failed in their bid to take it.  There are some errors and omissions in the book.  One such error refers to the destruction of the mutinous Russian brigades in France in 1917 by French cannons.  Readers should check out the recent book, With Snow on their Boots, that details the actual fate of the Russian expeditionary brigades in France. Horne also fails to mention much detail about the air battles over Verdun and is weak on discussing artillery and intelligence issues.  Instead, Horne gets carried away in the epilogue detailing all the Second World War celebrities who had some connection with Verdun.<br /> Nevertheless, The Price of Glory remains an excellent account of Verdun.  Yet the day is coming when this classic will be replaced by a newer account that offers depth and detail lacking in Horne's account.dlebrook's methodology, Horne has no chapter that attempts to analyze the results of the battle; he opines that nobody actually won the battle but this seems totally subjective.  While the French victory may have been pyrrhic in nature, the fact is that the French achieved their goal of holding Verdun while the Germans failed in their bid to take it.    There are some errors and omissions in the book.  One such error refers to the destruction of the mutinous Russian brigades in France in 1917 by French cannons.  Readers should check out the recent book, With Snow on their Boots, that details the actual fate of the Russian expeditionary brigades in France. Horne also fails to mention much detail about the air battles over Verdun and is weak on discussing artillery and intelligence issues.  Instead, Horne gets carried away in the epilogue detailing all the Second World War celebrities who had some connection with Verdun.<br /> Nevertheless, The Price of Glory remains an excellent account of Verdun.  Yet the day is coming when this classic will be replaced by a newer account that offers depth and detail lacking in Horne's account.	2001-04-04
2057916:US	52533596	R1KBPLT3O8ADIV	0140277447	803730078	The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II	Books	2	102	149	N	N	A Superficial, Journalistic Account	This is a journalistic account, which is superficial and very biased.  Chang seems to feel that getting the &quot;historical scoop&quot; by writing on this neglected subject is more important than providing in-depth analysis.  Organization and style are poor.  This is essentially a collection of second-hand anecdotes, strung together in loose order.  This book was somewhat interesting to read, but it does not fully engage the reader's interest.  Very little order of battle on Japanese units involved, which makes it difficult to determine who actually committed these atrocities. Two maps.  Note that many other reviewers appear gripped with this book on an emotional level, as any tragedy brought to life can be, but it is not history.	2001-03-23
2058122:US	52533596	R326A5FFKH67OF	0684848015	340472252	Citizen Soldiers: The U. S. Army from the Normandy Beaches to the Bulge to the Surrender of Germany	Books	3	19	29	N	N	A Survey of the World War Two GI	Stephen Ambrose uses the not-very original (although he suggests to the naive that it is) technique of using a first-person survey of US soldiers in combat from Normandy to VE Day to illuminate the Second World War GI; this is basically old wine in a new bottle.  The book is very anecdotal in nature with little analysis, but Ambrose keeps interest with a readable style.  There are no new thesis here, but Ambrose is critical of the US higher command in continuing the &quot;broad front&quot; campaign during bad weather and supply difficulties of October-November 1944.  As Ambrose sees it, the Allies should have paused to allow their supplies to catch up and weather to improve.  The actual result was heavy casualties for minimal gain and giving the Germans an opportunity to rip through the front against tired, worn-out divisions.  Ambrose may have a point here, but he minimizes the feeling in October 1944 that German collapse was imminent with one more push.  Just like the Germans felt in Russia in October-November 1941.  Also in war, one does not surrender the initiative lightly.  Ambrose does not always have his facts straight, like claiming that the Panther tank had an 88mm gun or that the Luftwaffe did not challenge the Allied airborne drops in Holland (in fact, they shot down 33 C-47s on the first day - 3% of the total).  Maps adequate, but large scale.	2001-03-23
2058480:US	52533596	R3980NPXQ2S356	1855325527	258617466	Lutzen 1632 (Campaign #68)	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	Excellent Research, but Controversial Interpretations	Eastern European military expert Richard Brzezinski has written an original, well-researched account of the Battle of Lutzen in 1632.  Given the rarity of English-language sources on the Thirty Years War, this book represents a valuable contribution to an understanding of this climactic battle.  It is quickly apparent that the author has gone to great lengths to get details on the orders of battle, battlefield dispositions and tactical movements as correct as possible.  This work is heavily based on German and Swedish sources.<br /> Overall, this volume is one of the better books in the Osprey Campaign Series.  The artwork, illustrations, maps and diagrams are all excellent.  However, there are two troubling minor criticisms with the maps.  First, the campaign maps that lead up to the battle are too complex and the events are not listed in the proper sequential order.  Second, the 3-D &quot;bird's-eye&quot; view maps of the battle are oriented toward the northeast, which makes them seem skewed from the 2-D maps that are oriented toward the north.<br /> This account of Lutzen hinges on two questions: why did Wallenstein [the Catholic commander] disperse his forces just prior to the battle and why, having inflicted crippling damage on the Protestant forces, did Wallenstein elect to retreat?  On the first question, Brzezinski suggests that rather than dispersing his forces for winter quartering (the conventional explanation), Wallenstein was actually laying a trap to lure Gustavus Adolphus' Protestant army out of its fortified camp.  This is a very weak theory.  Dispersing one's army only ten miles away from the army of a formidable opponent like Gustavus Adolphus appears more foolhardy than cunning.  Lack of a proper covering force to inform Wallenstein of any advance by the Swedes and the hasty nature of the defenses at Lutzen demolish any notions of operational cunning.  At the very least, by retiring into Leipzig, Wallenstein was surrendering the strategic initiative.  Any proper military analysis of Wallenstein's generalship in the period leading up to Lutzen would reveal indecisiveness and reluctance to fight pitched battles.  I believe Wallenstein was a general in the mold of our own McClellan; expert at organizing and training armies but uncertain how to use their armies on campaign.  Brzezinski states that one of his intentions is to &quot;debunk&quot; the glorification of Gustavus Adolphus, but the Swedish general kept the initiative and the Battle of Lutzen was fought on his terms.<br /> As for Wallenstein's retreat, this again points to weak generalship.  Brzezinski tries to offer the extenuating circumstances of Wallenstein's minor battlefield injuries, but this is very weak justification for abandoning one's entire artillery and logistic trains, as well as hundreds of Catholic wounded who were butchered.  It was a hard fight, but Wallenstein's army had held most of their ground and substantial reinforcements were arriving at nightfall.  The best Swedish brigades had been smashed and Gustavus Adolphus was dead.  Wallenstein's decision to cut and run was somewhere between a poorly considered mistake and a craven abdication of command responsibility.  Brzezinski concludes that, &quot;Wallenstein got the better of the fighting, but he blotted his copy book by abandoning the field, his artillery and ammunition, turning a tactical victory into a strategic defeat.&quot;  However, the author adds, &quot;In a broader sense though, both sides lost the Battle of Lutzen.&quot;  In reality, Lutzen was a defeat for the Imperialists [Catholics] because their commander perceived himself to be defeated and thereby, denied his victorious troops the fruits of their hard-won stand.tive.  Any proper military analysis of Wallenstein's generalship in the period leading up to Lutzen would reveal indecisiveness and reluctance to fight pitched battles.  I believe Wallenstein was a general in the mold of our own McClellan; expert at organizing and training armies but uncertain how to use their armies on campaign.  Brzezinski states that one of his intentions is to &quot;debunk&quot; the glorification of Gustavus Adolphus, but the Swedish general kept the initiative and the Battle of Lutzen was fought on his terms.<br /> As for Wallenstein's retreat, this again points to weak generalship.  Brzezinski tries to offer the extenuating circumstances of Wallenstein's minor battlefield injuries, but this is very weak justification for abandoning one's entire artillery and logistic trains, as well as hundreds of Catholic wounded who were butchered.  It was a hard fight, but Wallenstein's army had held most of their ground and substantial reinforcements were arriving at nightfall.  The best Swedish brigades had been smashed and Gustavus Adolphus was dead.  Wallenstein's decision to cut and run was somewhere between a poorly considered mistake and a craven abdication of command responsibility.  Brzezinski concludes that, &quot;Wallenstein got the better of the fighting, but he blotted his copy book by abandoning the field, his artillery and ammunition, turning a tactical victory into a strategic defeat.&quot;  However, the author adds, &quot;In a broader sense though, both sides lost the Battle of Lutzen.&quot;  In reality, Lutzen was a defeat for the Imperialists [Catholics] because their commander perceived himself to be defeated and thereby, denied his victorious troops the fruits of their hard-won stand.	2001-03-23
2058632:US	52533596	R4KNZLGA8EO30	0425163083	149638527	Into the Storm: A Study in Command	Books	3	2	5	N	N	A Superficial Account that Sheds Little Light	This is a fair account of the US VII Corps attack in Desert Storm.  The book begins with a lot of garbage recollections about Vietnam and Franks career.  The maps throughout are very poor, which is odd in an operational account. Then Clancy et al go through the whole resurrection of the US Army in the '70s and '80s.  The description of the Desert Storm battles are interesting but confusing.  Several items are apparent: (1) Franks is out to exonerate himself and criticize Schwarzkopf; (2) Franks is a very rigid, doctrinaire  commander and (3) Franks is unwilling to offer a professional evaluation of his campaign or it's relationship to the greater whole.  Franks does point out severe communication problems, terrain problems and the Iraqi Republican Guards fighting better than most accounts.  Yet Franks never explains the crucial (and controversial) issue of why it took his units so long to advance and his references to boundary problems with XVIII Corps sound like weak excuses.  This book did raise one question in my mind: why were we so interested in fighting the war so quickly? What difference did it make if we won in 4 days or 8 days?  The vital question of who decided to end the war remains open; Franks blames Shwarzkopf's poor battle-tracking at CENTCOM.  Only the last 100 pages are worth reading.	2001-03-23
2058894:US	52533596	R3OGSGDX0BRFFW	0060929588	485442755	Napoleon Bonaparte: A Life	Books	2	82	96	N	N	A Biased, Inferior Biography of Napoleon	This is a very biased biography of Napoleon.  Parts of it make interesting reading but on the whole, the book is very anti-Bonaparte.  Essentially, Schom views Napoleon as a brutal, lying psychotic who was very lucky.  Schom loses track of the historical sequence after 1799, glossing over the years 1800-1805 very quickly and then darting all over.  Although there is some new material on Fouche and Talleyrand, most of the sources are well-worn.  Schom totally ignores the development of the Grande Armee and what this did to the European balance of power.  Instead, Schom focuses heavily on naval matters, particularly those events leading up to Trafalgar (based on research for his previous book).  Schom avoids Napoleon's charisma and passes over his triumphs.  There is no real analysis of Napoleon's role in history.  Schom exaggerates negatives, such as casualties, expenses.  The author never compares Napoleon to other contemporary rulers - i.e. was he really more territorially avaricious than the Tsar of Russia or Prussian Junkers (who dismembered Poland)?	2001-03-23
2072773:US	52533596	R28RHGJW090ULE	9990613478	403931895	Glencoe: The Story of the Massacre	Books	3	4	7	N	N	A Good but Rambling Account of a Massacre	This is the story of the plot to massacre clan MacDonald  in Scotland in February 1692 by King William. This is portrayed as an attempt by the new Protestant monarch to cow all the obstinate Highland clans through a calculated act of political violence.  However the concept was weak and the execution was idiotic.  Glencoe was a fumbling, premeditated My Lai.  Two companies of Argyl (lowland Scots), under the command of an unreliable drunk, were ordered to Glencoe to eliminate the troublesome MacDonald clan.  Incredibly, the troops quartered with their intended victims for two weeks and remained on friendly terms until they opened fire at 0500 hours one snowy morning.  Through gross incompetence, only about 40 of the clan were murdered - about 10% - and the rest escaped.  Eventually this became a great political embarrassment for the Crown.  In the end, the troops that did the firing were held totally responsible (despite clear orders from the King and his ministers), nobody was tried and the victims received no compensation.  A pretty sorry chapter in British military history.  There are two inadequate sketch maps.  Prebble's writing style is rambling and organization is poor.	2001-03-11
2073163:US	52533596	R3CP5AYYLE16GC	0700608796	870692200	Stumbling Colossus: The Red Army on the Eve of World War (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	An Essential Reference on the Red Army	This book is an essential reference on the state of the Red Army on the eve of Operation Barbarossa.  Although a bit dry in tone, there is a wealth of information in these pages. Excellent maps and statistical data on the Soviet Army Order of Battle in 1941. The author uses recent Russian archival material to provide an unprecedented look into the Red Army just prior to Barbarossa. His assessment is that the Red Army was caught in the throes of rapid expansion, with most units at 60-70% strength.  The purges further diluted the pool of available military leadership.  Units on the front-line were short of ammo, fuel and key equipment.  Finally, the Red Army staff misjudged the German main effort - which they expected in the southwest along the Kiev axis - and thus further weakened the defenses of Leningrad and Moscow.  In the long run, the main Soviet success was their ability - albeit initially slow - to tap the full human resources of the USSR and to field replacements to fill the huge losses of 1941.  However once again, the Russian fascination with quantity rather than quality cost them dearly.  Stalin would have done better with 80-90 well-trained, well-equipped divisions than 170+ poorly-trained, poorly-equipped divisions.	2001-03-11
2073180:US	52533596	R2YGWHQLNQDSAD	1573922781	245561386	The Rise and Fall of British Naval Mastery	Books	2	13	38	N	N	Single Causitive Theory in Action	Paul Kennedy glosses over British naval ascendancy from pre-1600 to 1976.  This is essentially an analysis in political economy, not military history.  As usual, Kennedy maintains that the British fleet ruled the waves when their trade economy was on the rise (chiefly due to the headstart they got on industrialization) and declined with their relative decline in industrial productivity during 1890-1920.  Issues like technological change, leadership or operational mistakes do not figure prominently in this account.  The greatest British naval defeat in this period - the temporary loss of naval mastery off Yorktown in 1781, which led to American victory - had nothing to do with economics.  Kennedy ignores the US fleet for the most part, such as the technological impact of the Civil War (e.g. the Monitor) and the US triumph in the Spanish-American War.  There is a very blatant British bias here.<br />  Kennedy glosses over the various wars between 1600 and 1945 with no new insights or useful analysis.  Mahan is trashed, while Mackinder's &quot;heartland&quot; geopolitics are praised.  Kennedy's tone almost implies that British naval and industrial decline was inevitable, yet he offers no opinions about what they might have done otherwise.  The key challenge for Britain was to match commitments with resources and sustainable forces (the &quot;two war&quot; strategy for dealing with crises in Pacific and Mediterranean in 1930s is similar to current US &quot;2MRC&quot; strategic dilemma). Maps are crude.	2001-03-11
2073210:US	52533596	RAU3VKOLQK0A5	0870527479	963335601	Pilsudski: A Life for Poland	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Decent Biography, but skimpy on details	This is probably the only decent biography of the Polish nationalist leader, Joseph Pilsudski, written in English. There is only one map, covering the Battle of Warsaw.  Although there is considerable discussion of the Russo-Polish War, the actual military detail is skimpy.  A crucial mistake was failure to delve in more depth into Pilsudski's role in developing the Polish military structure and doctrine during 1922-1935.  As a person, he comes across as a strong, energetic personality in his youth, but as a frail, argumentative sort after age 55.  Pilsudski was an adulterer and he converted to Protestantism then returned to Catholicism.  His early socialist party activities seem to be a non-sequitor; he was a Polish nationalist who believed in independence, but not Marxism.  His political allies were leftist, but his methods and style were militant fascism.<br />  Pilsudski's finest hours were in 1920 in saving Poland from the Bolsheviks and in 1926 in saving Poland from civil war. However Pilsudski was unable to provide Poland with the long-term means or strategy to resist either Germany or Russia.	2001-03-11
2073267:US	52533596	R2EE4IF3YKHWKY	0806131284	327107439	Agent of Destiny: The Life and Times of General Winfield Scott	Books	2	10	11	N	N	A Mediocre Biography of an American Hero	This biography of General Winfield Scott is lacking from a number of perspectives.  First, there is a total lack of military analysis - the author merely states what Scott did but never in much depth and without an assessment of his strategy or tactical abilities.  We never learn how Scott evolved from a lawyer into a soldier - what was his military education, how did he evolve as a soldier over a 40 year career. How did he view new technologies like railroads and rifled artillery?  Second, Scott appears as a cardboard character here with little or no personal depth.  What were his views on subjects such as slavery, tariffs, the Indians? His family relations are virtually ignored - why did his wife spend so much time in Europe?  Instead, the author spends far too much time on Scott's political ambitions and his intra-service rivalries and bickering.  This is not what he is remembered for and should not be the primary focus for a military biography.  Scott was probably one of the best generals the United States has ever produced, particularly in light of the superb Mexico City campaign, and his generalship should be center stage in a biography, not low-level barracks intrigue.  Finally, the notion that Scott was the agent of manifest destiny is unsupported; he was a dutiful soldier, not an imperialist. Maps were inadequate to follow Scott's battles.	2001-03-11
2073295:US	52533596	R1CSV0MV86TYUR	1853673358	472350590	The Art of War of Revolutionary France, 1789-1802	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Good Synthesis of Other People's Research	Griffith, a former lecturer at Sandhurst, culls together a lot of the material from other sources - such as Lynn - and tries to paint a portrait of the French war machine during the period 1792-1802.  It is a decent overview but not very original.  The author is also possessed of a fierce anti-Bonapartist bias and he not only ignores the 1796-7 Campaign in Italy and the 1798 Campaign in Egypt, but he takes frequent gratuitous swipes at Napoleon (comments like &quot;unfortunately Bonaparte escaped being lynched by his troops&quot; or &quot;unfortunately Bonaparte was able to return from Egypt&quot;).  There is much good information on other theaters, such as the Spanish frontier and Rhine.  However, there is very little on the War of the Second Coalition and the narrative essentially runs only to about 1798.  The chapter on the French Navy is a skimpy overview.  Griffith's conclusion is that French armies of 1792-5 were not very good, but they had decent commanders who knew how to get the best out of their fragile infantry units.  French relied heavily on artillery, fortifications and rough terrain initially.  Their main advantages were that they had a simple strategy (survival) which they didn't have to coordinate with any allies and they had plenty of troops who kept launching &quot;impulse&quot; attacks.  The Allies were hampered by poor coalition diplomacy/strategy and limited numbers of troops.  Excellent bibliography (the book's strongest point). Maps are plentiful but crude.  Many tables, but few are very enlightening.	2001-03-11
2076326:US	52533596	R3PGJE5SHHVZ97	1841760927	112734966	Tobruk 1941: Rommel's opening move (Campaign)	Books	3	11	13	N	Y	A Truncated Account of the Desert Siege	Jon Latimer picks up in this volume on the Siege of Tobruk where he left off in his previous volume in the Osprey Campaign Series, Operation Compass 1940.  Although the style is similar to the first volume, this work is better written and better edited.  However, it is important to note that this volume does not cover the entire siege of Tobruk, only the period from Rommel's initial offensive on 24 March to the end of Operate &quot;Battleaxe&quot; on 17 June 1941.  Since the siege continued until late November 1941, this period will presumably be covered in another volume on &quot;Operation Crusader&quot;.  Nevertheless, the story of the siege seems oddly truncated in this account.<br /> The section on commanders is far too brief.  Rommel is the only Axis commander given serious attention and even the Allied commanders are mostly glossed over.  Generalmajor Streich, commander of the 5th Light Division, had a poor relationship with Rommel and this should have been discussed since it contributed to the failure of the first German attack on Tobruk.  The section on opposing armies is totally superficial, focusing on a general discussion of anti-tank and anti-aircraft guns, rather than discussing the units involved in the siege.  The German 5th Light was a very ad hoc force cobbled together from various bits and pieces in late 1940.  More information on the 9th Australian Division should have been provided.  Virtually no information on the Italians was provided - Latimer missed a chance here to comment on their recovery, of sorts, from the Beda Fomm disaster. The Order of Battle provided is quite thorough, although there is no list of Axis aircraft available.  Latimer should also have made some mention of the reinforcement schedules for both sides.  The campaign summary is solid, if unexceptional.  Latimer covers all the main points, but a review of his bibliography reveals that he has not dug much past standard secondary sources. There has been a wealth of new information about the Desert War, including a lot of specialized studies on the panzer units of the Afrika Korps, as well as information about Enigma, that have not been incorporated in this volume.  Excellent sources, such as the Royal Armored Corps histories and the Tank Museum do not appear to have been utilized.  Perhaps in his next volume, Latimer can attempt a bit more research.  Finally, there is no attempt at analysis, asking why couldn't Rommel take Tobruk?  Obviously inadequate resources played a key factor, but Latimer sheds little light on the question of whether Rommel had any other options.mation about the Desert War, including a lot of specialized studies on the panzer units of the Afrika Korps, as well as information about Enigma, that have not been incorporated in this volume.  Excellent sources, such as the Royal Armored Corps histories and the Tank Museum do not appear to have been utilized.  Perhaps in his next volume, Latimer can attempt a bit more research.  Finally, there is no attempt at analysis, asking why couldn't Rommel take Tobruk?  Obviously inadequate resources played a key factor, but Latimer sheds little light on the question of whether Rommel had any other options.	2001-03-08
2076796:US	52533596	RCN93G07CJ02J	0304353396	447565613	Hitler's War: Germany's Key Strategic Decisions, 1940-1945	Books	3	27	31	N	Y	Common Sense Is Not A Strategy	Heinz Magenheimer, an Austrian historian, has attempted to write an analysis of Hitler's key strategic decisions in the period 1940-1944 and asks if Germany could have &quot;won&quot; the Second World War.  Ostensibly, Magenheimer's methodology is to focus on a specific period which required a strategic decision, then outline what facts the German leadership had available, what alternatives they had and to ask if there was a better potential outcome.  This is a good methodology but unfortunately, Magenheimer does not stick to it very well.<br /> Organizationally, the book is divided into five chapters. The first chapter focuses on the Battle of Britain and the coming confrontation with the Soviet Union.  The second deals with the turn of the war in the autumn on 1941.  The third covers the final loss of the strategic initiative in 1942, the fourth with the failure to defend the peripheries of Fortress Europe in 1943 and the final chapter with the collapse in 1944.  There are several decent maps and charts, but no appendices.  The bibliography, which covers many German language sources, is extensive and quite good.<br /> There is nothing particularly new in Magenheimer's analysis, although much of what he says appears quite true fifty years after the fact.  Yes, if Hitler had been less ambitious or fanatical perhaps the 6th Army wouldn't have been lost at Stalingrad.  Yes, if Hitler had been more flexible on retreats, the Wehrmacht might have done a better job on mobile defense.  Yes, if the Luftwaffe had focused more on fighter production and stepped up the Me-262 program then it would have been more difficult for the Allies to gain air superiority over Europe.  All these issues represent common sense - hence they are not contentious - but they actually offer no new insight.  There is no doubt that with better decisions and choices, the Third Reich might have done better in the war but in most cases, &quot;doing better&quot; means surviving longer than May 1945.  Even with jets and a stronger, mobile defense, Germany was waging war against the three strongest industrial powers on earth and no tactical magic was going to alter that fact.  What Magenheimer offers is a common sense alternative to Hitler's quixotic strategic direction, but common sense is not a strategy (it essentially says, 'we shall do nothing foolish or extreme,' without saying what will in fact be done).<br /> By avoiding 1939 in his book, Magenheimer avoids the whole issue of Hitler embarking upon a major war with an inadequate military-industrial base.  Magenheimer blames Hitler for seeking only militaristic solutions to all his problems and neglecting potential political solutions, like a separate peace with the Soviet Union.  However Hitler had pretty much used up his political cards prior to the war and even Stalin was unlikely to consider seriously negotiating with the man who broke the 1939 Non-aggression Pact only two years later.  Once the war was rolling, Hitler was left with only military solutions; the weak enemies like France were quickly knocked out of the war and the survivors, like Britain and the USSR, also wanted military solutions.  Magenheimer avoids the question of whether Germany should ever have attacked France and the Low Countries in 1940 at all; had Hitler not widened the war and brought Churchill into power, the Chamberlain and Daladier governments had little motivation to invade Germany or initiate a strategic bombing campaign.  Quite possibly, the &quot;Phoney War&quot; might have dragged on for a year or two and then fizzled, with eventual peace negotiations.  Hitler might have gotten to keep all or part of Poland and that would have been a &quot;victory&quot;.  However no German historian is likely to criticize the &quot;easy success&quot; of the French campaign.<br /> Magenheimer implies that Hitler's attacked on the Soviet Union was in the nature of pre-emptive strike, based upon post-war revelations of Soviet war plans supposedly set for the autumn of 1941.  Readers should treat this discussion of Operation Barbarossa with caution, since Magenheimer greatly exaggerates the likelihood of a Soviet attack upon Germany in 1941 (see David Glanz' recent Stumbling Colossus, which points out how ill-prepared the Red Army was for offensive combat in 1941).  The author then adds insult to misconception by claiming that it was primarily the Soviets who were responsible for initiating the many atrocities on the eastern front.<br /> While Magenheimer rejects the idea that Germany's defeat was inevitable, this is probably not far from the truth.  After all, Germany waged war against virtually the same coalition in the First World War and lost it without any help from Adolph Hitler.  The fact is that it is very difficult for even a well-led continental power with limited resources to challenge two or more great powers for global hegemony.  It didn't work for Napoleon, or Kaiser Wilhelm or Hitler.  Even in the best-case world, such as Napoleon faced at Tilsit in 1807, the aggressor gained only a breathing space before new coalitions were raised against him.  Thus, more common sense in Berlin might have changed some of the dates, but baring a total collapse of the Allied will to resist, it was unlikely to have altered the final result.upposedly set for the autumn of 1941.  Readers should treat this discussion of Operation Barbarossa with caution, since Magenheimer greatly exaggerates the likelihood of a Soviet attack upon Germany in 1941 (see David Glanz' recent Stumbling Colossus, which points out how ill-prepared the Red Army was for offensive combat in 1941).  The author then adds insult to misconception by claiming that it was primarily the Soviets who were responsible for initiating the many atrocities on the eastern front.  <br /> While Magenheimer rejects the idea that Germany's defeat was inevitable, this is probably not far from the truth.  After all, Germany waged war against virtually the same coalition in the First World War and lost it without any help from Adolph Hitler.   The fact is that it is very difficult for even a well-led continental power with limited resources to challenge two or more great powers for global hegemony.  It didn't work for Napoleon, or Kaiser Wilhelm or Hitler.  Even in the best-case world, such as Napoleon faced at Tilsit in 1807, the aggressor gained only a breathing space before new coalitions were raised against him.  Thus, more common sense in Berlin might have changed some of the dates, but baring a total collapse of the Allied will to resist, it was unlikely to have altered the final result.	2001-03-08
2076805:US	52533596	R3VIQADRHQP12B	1841762172	471410272	Louisbourg 1758: Wolfe’s first siege (Campaign)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A Good, Concise Account of a Famous Siege	Rene Chartrand has added a volume on the British siege and capture of Fortress Louisbourg in 1758 to complement his earlier volume on the Battle of Ticonderoga.  Together, these two Osprey titles add a wealth of new information and perspectives on these critical campaigns of the French and Indian War.<br /> In Louisbourg 1758, Chartrand provides ample details from both the French and British sides, using several previously un-tapped sources.  The result is a thorough account of a very professionally-conducted siege.  A complete order of battle, including both ground and naval units, is provided.  There is also information on the partisan warfare conducted by the displaced Acadians.  Information on casualties on both sides is also provided.<br /> The maps and artwork are excellent, although one minor exception is a map that clearly denotes all the major features within Fortress Louisbourg, such as the gates and bastions.  The panoramic photos of the reconstructed Fort Louisbourg are excellent and add great value to this volume.<br /> Chartrand focuses heavily on Brigadier General James Wolfe, perhaps somewhat slighting the other British brigadiers, but this is probably necessary due to the restricted size of the volume.  All in all, this volume is a welcome addition for anyone interested in Eighteength Century Siege Warfare or the French and Indian War.	2001-03-08
2081043:US	52533596	R2QBGSY5YTQ94W	0891417206	954008927	Death Ground	Books	1	32	52	N	N	Elitist Contempt Drips from Almost Every Page	Before I started this book, I was a great fan of Daniel Bolger's and had read all his previous books.  Based upon his excellent earlier works of both fiction and non-fiction, I felt that Bolger was both a talented professional soldier and a gifted writer.  Death Ground changed that impression.  This book is a polemical piece with elitist contempt virtually dripping from its pages.  Nor are there any great lessons to be learned here.<br /> Organizationally, the book has seven chapters that focus on different types of US infantry units involved in recent operations.  The vignettes include Panama (1989), Desert Storm (1991), Somalia (1993), Haiti (1994) and Liberia (1996).  With the exception of the Battle of Mogadishu in 1993, all these tactical vignettes are company or smaller size actions.  Each chapter is used to highlight the unique characteristics of that type of unit.  According to Bolger, there are approximately 100,000 US infantry in 91 Regular Army and Marine battalions.  Actually, using his tables of organization, the number is 69,189 and that includes non-infantry personnel in those units.<br /> Only regular US Army and Marine units are included in the survey of modern American infantry.  Bolger begins in the first chapter by contemptuously dismissing the Army National Guard and Reserve infantry units; &quot;these part-time warriors ...are not manned, equipped, trained, disciplined, or led to the standards of the Regulars.  Perhaps in the days when preparing for battle meant grabbing a squirrel gun off the mantel and learning a few parade-ground evolutions, the armed forces could get by with that caliber of soldier... Close combat demands professionals...&quot; Aside from the obvious insult to the over 100 Army National Guard infantry battalions who are treated as pathetic sub-humans, Bolger ignores the fact that the tough Chinese, Korean and Vietnamese infantry who gave us so much trouble in 1950-1975 were conscripts with no special training and usually limited combat experience.  The Somali militiamen who came close to annihilating Task Force Ranger were not well-trained professionals, merely motivated amateurs.  In fact, when Bolger quips about the National Guard that, &quot;for a variety of good reasons, those happy warriors had not been called to federal service,&quot; he ignores the deployment of Army National Guard infantry to the Sinai, Croatia and Bosnia in recent years.<br /> Bolger then moves on to heap derision on the Military Intelligence Community.  Citing the 101st Airborne air assault into Iraq in February 1991, Bolger claims that MI analysts who forecast little or no Iraqi resistance on the Landing Zone &quot;could afford to be smug&quot;.  Bolger ignores the fact that US commanders had the most thorough intelligence picture of an enemy that any army has had in history and wisecracks, &quot;intelligence expertise be damned&quot;.  In a typical swipe, Bolger claims that &quot;intell analysts work in air-conditioned trailers; they don't patrol.&quot;  False.  I served as a battalion, brigade and division intelligence officer in a light infantry division and we had no &quot;air-conditioned trailers&quot; - we worked off the ubiquitous Humvees liked everybody else.  And when not engaged in intelligence activities, MI soldiers must engage in local security which includes patrolling.<br /> Bolger's next target is the armor community, lamenting that the mechanized infantry battalions are &quot;an endangered species&quot; because they are &quot;yoked to a corpse, the US Army's heavy armored force.&quot;  Bolger insultingly claims, &quot;the combat arm of decision excels at waging yesterday's war.  Armor's time has passed...American armor has contributed exactly four days of honest work in the last five decades.&quot;  Bolger suggests that a few tanks should be retained for infantry support work, but the vast majority should be retired.  This blatantly biased view ignores the valuable contributions that US tankers made in the Korean and Vietnam Wars, as well as maintaining the peace along the Inter-German Border in the Cold War.<br /> Throughout the book, Bolger makes constant chest-thumping assertions that &quot;every active battalion is an elite body&quot; and that only Regulars can handle infantry combat.  American draftees from earlier wars are derided as lacking intelligence and motivation (World War Two veterans should also be insulted by this book); Bolger claims they were unwilling to close with the enemy.  Wasn't one of the greatest American infantrymen of all time, Sergeant Alvin York, a mere draftee with no special training?  How many West Point Ranger School graduates have single-handedly eliminated 157 enemy soldiers and 35 machineguns? Check the other Medal of Honor winners from 1917-1972; not many &quot;professionals&quot; in that elite group.<br /> This bad book ends with some truly awful conclusions.  Bolger anticipates that the 91 current Regular battalions will further shrink but become even more elite as they &quot;merge&quot; with the Special Operations Community.  He forecasts a bright future for the Marines and Rangers, less bright for the airborne/air assault community and virtually none for the light and mechanized units.  That only makes sense if you anticipate military operations that only last a few days or weeks, but not well-suited to more drawn-out campaigns.  Bolger makes incredibly broad generalizations about the future using only his examples from 1989-1996.  For somebody with a PhD in Military History, Bolger shows a great deal of ignorance for that subject.  American and British professional soldiers in the Nineteenth Century adapted to frontier warfare, but they never lost sight of the true mission, which was preparation for the Big One, as Bolger puts it.  Bolger is correct in pointing out the obvious that there will be more wars, but probably incorrect in forecasting that the next decade will look like the previous one. They rarely do.  Should we become involved in a major, long-term conflict in Asia or Latin America - distinct possibilities in the next decade - then a small, elitist US military will not suffice as a deterrent.  This book should not be on anyone's professional reading list.US tankers made in the Korean and Vietnam Wars, as well as maintaining the peace along the Inter-German Border in the Cold War.   <br /> Throughout the book, Bolger makes constant chest-thumping assertions that &quot;every active battalion is an elite body&quot; and that only Regulars can handle infantry combat.  American draftees from earlier wars are derided as lacking intelligence and motivation (World War Two veterans should also be insulted by this book); Bolger claims they were unwilling to close with the enemy.  Wasn't one of the greatest American infantrymen of all time, Sergeant Alvin York, a mere draftee with no special training?  How many West Point Ranger School graduates have single-handedly eliminated 157 enemy soldiers and 35 machineguns? Check the other Medal of Honor winners from 1917-1972; not many &quot;professionals&quot; in that elite group.  <br /> This bad book ends with some truly awful conclusions.  Bolger anticipates that the 91 current Regular battalions will further shrink but become even more elite as they &quot;merge&quot; with the Special Operations Community.  He forecasts a bright future for the Marines and Rangers, less bright for the airborne/air assault community and virtually none for the light and mechanized units.  That only makes sense if you anticipate military operations that only last a few days or weeks, but not well-suited to more drawn-out campaigns.  Bolger makes incredibly broad generalizations about the future using only his examples from 1989-1996.  For somebody with a PhD in Military History, Bolger shows a great deal of ignorance for that subject.  American and British professional soldiers in the Nineteenth Century adapted to frontier warfare, but they never lost sight of the true mission, which was preparation for the Big One, as Bolger puts it.  Bolger is correct in pointing out the obvious that there will be more wars, but probably incorrect in forecasting that the next decade will look like the previous one. They rarely do.  Should we become involved in a major, long-term conflict in Asia or Latin America - distinct possibilities in the next decade - then a small, elitist US military will not suffice as a deterrent.  This book should not be on anyone's professional reading list.	2001-03-05
2085952:US	52533596	R20NCR96EZ0R8T	1885119712	366767262	War Without Garlands: Barbarossa 1941/42	Books	4	25	30	N	Y	A Soldiers Account of Operation Barbarossa	The author, a serving colonel in the British airborne, takes his title from the German expression &quot;kein blumenkrieg&quot; denoting the difference between the invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941 from the earlier easy conquests in the West.  Unlike the relatively easy conquests in the West that were followed by parades with flowers, the early victories in Russia did not result in glorious parades.  Kershaw weaves numerous German and Soviet diary and letter accounts in with cogent analysis to present a &quot;soldier's account&quot; of the massive German invasion of the USSR.<br />  It is important to note that this is not a comprehensive account of Operation Barbarossa.  The contributions of Axis allies are almost totally ignored, with little or no mention of the Finns, Hungarians, Romanians, Slovaks, Italians and Spanish troops who participated in Operation Barbarossa.  The six German divisions in Finland that attempted to take Murmansk and the bloody siege of Odessa are also ignored.  Most of the focus is on ArmeeGruppe Center's area of operations, with much less detail on ArmeeGruppe North's efforts to take Leningrad or ArmeeGruppe South's advance to the Dniepr River and beyond.<br />  The author's main contention is that the main philosophy of Blitzkrieg - surround enemy armies and they will surrender - did not work in the USSR.  The Wehrmacht surrounded numerous Soviet armies but Russian resistance in hopeless pocket battles caused horrendous German losses.  Kershaw asserts that the Germans were &quot;victored to death&quot; in the pocket battles around Minsk and Smolensk in July-August 1941, suffering over 100,000 troops killed.  As Kershaw states, the extended pocket battles &quot;broke the tempo of Blitzkrieg&quot;.  The German OKH staff then failed to realize how badly their own units had been hurt in the pocket battles when they ordered Operation &quot;Typhoon&quot;, the final push to Moscow in October 1941.  Soviet losses had been heavy, but the Germans underestimated Stalin's ability to mobilize new forces.  Atrocious winter weather and dogged Soviet counterattacks then brought the weakened Wehrmacht to its knees just outside Moscow. All told, the Wehrmacht suffered 219,000 dead and 730,000 wounded in the nine months between June 1941 and February 1942 (Kershaw fails to mention that about 25% of the wounded would be returned to duty in a few months).  Unfortunately, the lack of comprehensiveness tends to undermines Kershaw's hypothesis.  He provides statistics on German personnel losses but not on replacements, which makes it difficult to determine how much the Wehrmacht was actually degraded.  Statistics on German tank losses also would have been useful; for example, Germany lost 1,805 PzIII and PzIV tanks in this nine-month period, but they built 1,955 in the same period. The idea that &quot;the seedcorn of Blitzkrieg&quot; was lost in 1941 is premature, given the ability of the Germans to mount large-scale Blitzkrieg-type offensives in 1942 and 1943.  Certainly the Germans were hurt badly, but the Wehrmacht still had a lot of fight left in it after the defeat before Moscow.<br />  Finally, the author's constant references to the &quot;easy&quot; campaigns in France and the &quot;war without garlands&quot; tend to become irritating and deceptive over time.  While naïve German soldiers may have believed that Barbarossa would be over in 6-8 weeks like the earlier Blitzkriegs, it is doubtful that this sentiment was as widespread as the author claims.  Kershaw ignores the fact that the simultaneous Afrika Korps campaigns in Libya were also fought without garlands and also exceeded the six-week paradigm. Anti-partisan campaigns in Yugoslavia would also be more &quot;war without garlands&quot;.  In implying that the German soldier of 1941 was psychologically conditioned to believe in campaigns that only last six weeks and then resulted in victory parades, Kershaw is painting a psychological weakness that did not exist.  Most armies that start wars expect a quick decision, whether it was the Union Army in 1861 or the Kaiser's army in 1914, but they do not fall apart when this overly-optimistic assessment does not become reality.  As for the &quot;garlands&quot; aspect, most German soldiers in December 1941 would probably have preferred a hot bath, warm socks and a good meal to a victory parade with flowers.  This book is a valuable addition to an East Front library, but it must be tempered with other sources for balance.weakness that did not exist.  Most armies that start wars expect a quick decision, whether it was the Union Army in 1861 or the Kaiser's army in 1914, but they do not fall apart when this overly-optimistic assessment does not become reality.  As for the &quot;garlands&quot; aspect, most German soldiers in December 1941 would probably have preferred a hot bath, warm socks and a good meal to a victory parade with flowers.  This book is a valuable addition to an East Front library, but it must be tempered with other sources for balance.	2001-02-28
2086707:US	52533596	R2XSTEVGSZK6V7	1580970117	586185893	Calais (Battleground Europe)	Books	2	4	4	N	N	How Not To Commit a Brigade To Combat	This book is a battlefield guide that describes the desperate effort by the British to defend the port of Calais against the on-rushing German panzers in May 1940.  On the plus side, the 123-page historical section on the battle itself has information that is not covered well in other books.  Typically, the Battle for Calais gets a paragraph or two in most accounts and thus thin volume packs a considerable amount of unique information.  The maps and photographs that support the text are also excellent.  However, the account is marred by errors, omissions and lack of analysis.<br />  The story of how Churchill committed the 30th Infantry Brigade to a &quot;no retreat&quot; defense of Calais in order to buy time for the evacuation of Dunkirk to proceed is certainly one of the less well-known chapters of the Second World War.  The brigade arrived in Calais on 22 May 1940, composed of two regular infantry battalions, a territorial battalion, the 3rd Royal Tank Regiment and a few small support units.  Within less than 24 hours of arriving, the brigade was under attack by lead elements of the German 10th Panzer Division.  This is a story of how not to commit a brigade into combat.  Although the British brigade was a motorized unit, most of the vehicles did not arrive and thus the unit fought mostly as &quot;leg&quot; infantry.  Many of the weapons suffered from defects or shortages, including the fact that many of the tanks were armed only with smoke ammunition.  The brigade arrived with only eight 40mm antitank guns and no artillery or engineers, nor had the two regular battalions ever worked with the territorial or tank units before.  Furthermore, the brigade was thrown into an intelligence void, its commander was told that they were sent to &quot;mop up&quot; a few Germans that had leaked through the front lines, not mount a desperate defense.<br />  Jon Cooksey uses eye-witness accounts from the British side and diary accounts from the German side to paint the four-day Battle of Calais.  The account makes for interesting reading but choppy history, particularly since the author is casual about time references.  It is often difficult to tell when events are occurring in relation to each other and the author would have been better served to organize his chapters with greater chronological coherence.  The author also seems to have trouble identifying German equipment; for example, a 75mm infantry howitzer on page 80 is described as &quot;a mortar&quot; and a Pz I tank on page 122 is labeled as a &quot;Pz II&quot;.<br />  However the most glaring error of this entire volume is the author's treatment of the 3rd Royal Tank Regiment (3RTR).  Although this unit is described in detail in the initial fighting on 23 May, it disappears from this account for the remainder of the battle.  The unit is last seen retiring into Calais to regroup after losing seven tanks in a skirmish with the 10th Panzer.  Nothing more is said about the 3RTR or its men, but several photographs show abandoned British tanks in the town.  What happened to the British armor?  This is a crucial omission. Other oversights include only passing mention of participation in the battle by French troops, the Royal Air Force, the Royal Navy and the effects upon French civilians in Calais.  Nor is there any mention of German casualties, although they were probably less than the author implies.  The author also spends little effort to follow-up on the fates of key characters in the battle. It is stated that Brigadier General Nicholson, who led the defense, did not survive captivity but there is no explanation.  Was he shot trying to escape or die of disease?  Who knows?  Certainly the author put greater effort into the 39-page section on battlefield tours than he did into tying up loose ends.<br />  Finally, the author makes no effort at analysis whatsoever, but lamely claims that despite the sacrifice of the 30th Brigade, the valiant unit tied down the 10th Panzer for four vital days and thereby saved the Dunkirk evacuation.  There is a long tradition in British history of glorifying military disasters and this is one of those cases.  The idea that a pick-up team of 2,500 poorly-equipped troops could seriously delay the German offensive whereas over one million well-equipped Anglo-French troops on the front could not, is pretty ludicrous.  The fact is that the port of Calais was already fairly isolated by the German spearheads before the 30th Brigade had even fully disembarked and that the British troops had been delivered into a tactical cul-de-sac.  Cooksey fails to point out that the Germans were under no obligation to attack Calais immediately and that they could easily have bypassed the port.  If the deprivation of the 10th Panzer Division was such a hardship to the Germans, then they could have broken off the attack and proceeded to Dunkirk.  The British defenders at Calais, while gallant, served neither as a blocking force or to fix any sizeable German forces in place.  Rather, the Germans had sufficient forces to leisurely &quot;mop up&quot; isolated strong points such as Calais, and Cooksey notes that they did not attack at night and did not start their major assault upon the city center until 12 noon on 25 May.  The reality is that Churchill's no-retreat order at Calais served very little purpose other than to make the psychological point that British troops were capable of fighting it out instead of running.  Yet the photos of dead British troops behind flimsy barricades in Calais pathetically demonstrates what happens when soldiers unaccustomed to the reality of war are taught brutal lessons about the cost of unpreparedness in combat.  As one German officer told captured British soldiers, &quot;you are very brave, but foolish&quot;.th Panzer for four vital days and thereby saved the Dunkirk evacuation.  There is a long tradition in British history of glorifying military disasters and this is one of those cases.  The idea that a pick-up team of 2,500 poorly-equipped troops could seriously delay the German offensive whereas over one million well-equipped Anglo-French troops on the front could not, is pretty ludicrous.  The fact is that the port of Calais was already fairly isolated by the German spearheads before the 30th Brigade had even fully disembarked and that the British troops had been delivered into a tactical cul-de-sac.  Cooksey fails to point out that the Germans were under no obligation to attack Calais immediately and that they could easily have bypassed the port.  If the deprivation of the 10th Panzer Division was such a hardship to the Germans, then they could have broken off the attack and proceeded to Dunkirk.  The British defenders at Calais, while gallant, served neither as a blocking force or to fix any sizeable German forces in place.  Rather, the Germans had sufficient forces to leisurely &quot;mop up&quot; isolated strong points such as Calais, and Cooksey notes that they did not attack at night and did not start their major assault upon the city center until 12 noon on 25 May.  The reality is that Churchill's no-retreat order at Calais served very little purpose other than to make the psychological point that British troops were capable of fighting it out instead of running.  Yet the photos of dead British troops behind flimsy barricades in Calais pathetically demonstrates what happens when soldiers unaccustomed to the reality of war are taught brutal lessons about the cost of unpreparedness in combat.  As one German officer told captured British soldiers, &quot;you are very brave, but foolish&quot;.	2001-02-28
2091871:US	52533596	R1OZ213QGOFITZ	188347602X	841703725	The Army of Frederick the Great	Books	3	12	13	N	N	An Excellent Overview Ruined by Poor Editing	Poor editing, with numerous typos and spelling/syntax errors mars this work. There is excellent detail on the organization, training and equipment of the Prussian army, 1740-86.  Good individual chapters on Prussian infantry, cavalry, artillery and support services.  Frederick does not appear so &quot;great&quot; here; an able tactician and aggressive soldier-king, but marred by pique and an ignorant perspective.  He despised his artillerymen and engineers and consequently, his efforts at siege warfare were failures.  While the Prussian infantry and cavalry were superb, he under-utilized artillery and most of his &quot;oblique attacks&quot; were merely cleverly-executed frontal attacks.  There is an appendix with unit summaries on all Prussian regiments.  This could have been a superb work, but it is marred by inadequate maps, which are difficult to understand and don't depict battles well.  Incredibly, there are no campaign maps. Additionally, there should have been a biographical chapter on Prussian leaders, as well as line and block charts on organization and a better campaign summary.	2001-02-23
2092233:US	52533596	R2EGUJ0NI6FE3Z	0700608362	246811488	The Luftwaffe: Creating the Operational Air War, 1918-1940	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Thorough Analysis of Luftwaffe Doctrinal Development	The focus of this book is on the interwar development of German air operational doctrine.  Corum demonstrates that the Luftwaffe was not just a ground support air force but capable of strategic operations, including air transport (Franco's troops in 1936) and airborne assaults.  In fact, he points out that Anglo-American obsession with strategic bombardment hindered their operational doctrines until 1942-3.  Corum points out the biggest German deficiencies as lack of a true naval air arm that could have been decisive in fighting Britain, Udet's obsession with dive-bombers that delayed the deployment of the He-177 and the Ju-88 and strategic misdirection from Goering/Hitler.  There are two interesting chapters on lessons from the First World War and the Spanish Civil War.  Also interesting is discussion of how the Germans were able to develop not only doctrine, but new fighter and bomber designs under the noses of the Allied occupation forces.  The one area in which the Allies succeeded in inhibiting the Luftwaffe was in limiting the German civil aviation industry's engine development programs; when the Luftwaffe went public there were very few engines to choose from and these were less-advanced than Allied models.  Weak engines plagued a number of German aircraft designs.  There are no maps.	2001-02-23
2092635:US	52533596	R3PA6SJ4KUIZK9	0865274231	978537760	Storm of Steel From the Diary of a German Stormtroop Officer on the Western Front	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The Best Combat Memoir from the First World War	This book is a classic memoir of a First World War German platoon leader in the 111th Division, written in 1920.  The only real criticism is lack of any maps, which makes it difficult to identify many of the small villages mentioned in the text.  Junger survived on the Western Front from early 1915 to late 1918; he was wounded seven times.  Junger was awarded the Iron Cross First Class and the Pour le Merit.  The descriptions of trench warfare are first-rate.  There is good human-level detail: drunken behavior, fear, courage, stupidity.  The mighty German war machine does not always look so invincible through Junger's eyes.  Junger thought highly of the British, but not the French. He doesn't question the reasons for the war, but accepts the result. Throughout the book, Junger's fanatical tone is evident and readers should be aware of Junger's later involvement with the Nazi movement.	2001-02-23
2092814:US	52533596	R2MH367IXYHT8X	0393307344	936742801	The Battle of Britain : The Greatest Air Battle of World War II	Books	4	12	19	N	N	An Interesting Account That Doesn't Go Far Enough	This book represents a useful overview of the air campaign over Britain, mainly in the crucial period of August-September 1940.  It incorporates the German viewpoint and sources, although it is fairly pro-British in bias.  Hough includes information on units such as Erpo 210, an elite German fighter-bomber squadron, which is quite interesting.  However, he doesn't really explain German operational strategy, which makes it look rather dumb.  Someday, someone is going to write the definitive history of this battle which includes: (a) detailed information on each British and German squadron, (b) a detailed military analysis of German attacks, (d) tie the air campaign in with current naval operations and British ground defensive preps, (d) diagrams/photos of the major RAF air bases showing layout and damage inflicted and (e) maps/diagrams of British key armaments factories.  Also, a good description and analysis of the bombs available to the Luftwaffe in 1940 is needed.  While the authors ignore this aspect, I'm not sure that any air force could have won this campaign at that time; after all, it took the Allies several years and thousands of losses before they were able to make substantial strategic air attacks over Germany. Strategic air campaigns were a very new phenomenon in 1940. It wasn't the lack of 4-engine bombers or a strategic air war doctrine that cost the Germans this battle; it was a combination of some minor dumb mistakes (belly tanks, the Me-110 and overestimating damage done to radars and airfields), bad luck and bad timing.  No air force was capable of taking down an integrated air defense in 1940 using only air attacks.<br />  Additionally, the authors' claim this was the &quot;greatest air battle of World War Two,&quot; is rather specious.  What about the  4,000+ German and Soviet aircraft involved in the Battle of Kursk?  In terms of duration, what about the air battle over Germany, 1943-4?  The British always try to claim this was a victory, but the events of July-September 1940 were more like a goal-line stand; the Germans failed to score but neither did the British.  Unlike later defeats at Stalingrad or Kursk, a German victory was still possible after the failure to secure air superiority over England in 1940.  Also noteworthy, the German lost 1,284 aircraft over France in 1940 versus 950 RAF aircraft lost and this was a German victory.  Yet over England, the Germans lost 1,733 versus 915 RAF aircraft and this was a defeat. Clearly, victory and defeat had little to do with number of losses.  The book fails to address what if the Germans had continued to attack England in 1941 and it seems to regard the French ally as a hopeless cause.  Dowding is praised as the architect of victory but he seems to have been clueless in a number of regards; he was mostly correct in supporting the adoption of an integrated air defense.t the events of July-September 1940 were more like a goal-line stand; the Germans failed to score but neither did the British.  Unlike later defeats at Stalingrad or Kursk, a German victory was still possible after the failure to secure air superiority over England in 1940.  Also noteworthy, the German lost 1,284 aircraft over France in 1940 versus 950 RAF aircraft lost and this was a German victory.  Yet over England, the Germans lost 1,733 versus 915 RAF aircraft and this was a defeat. Clearly, victory and defeat had little to do with number of losses.  The book fails to address what if the Germans had continued to attack England in 1941 and it seems to regard the French ally as a hopeless cause.  Dowding is praised as the architect of victory but he seems to have been clueless in a number of regards; he was mostly correct in supporting the adoption of an integrated air defense.	2001-02-23
2092845:US	52533596	R16BYE0MCZQIAL	0253213800	447261986	Bayonets Before Bullets: The Imperial Russian Army, 18611914 (Indiana-Michigan Series in Russian & East European Studies)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Good Analyis of the Tsarist Army in Transition	This is a very military-academic study of how the Tsarist Russian army evolved from the Crimean War, through the 1877 Russo-Turkish War and Russo-Japanese War to become the military that went into World War One.  One big disappointment is that the author stops at August 1914 without analyzing the first month of the war.  He points out Russian deficiencies but fails to show how they were able to defeat Austrians in Galicia but lose at Tannenburg.  Although the emphasis here is on doctrine, technology and force structure issues, there are excellent chapters on operations in 1877-8 and 1904-5.  There are definitely similarities with Russia's current military troubles: political and social instability, economic weaknesses, technological changes that threaten to leave Russia's military behind, uncertain threat environment and  lackluster military leadership.  The Russian army made several key mistakes in terms of force structure, some of which are currently being repeated: they made the army too big for peacetime, but it was low quality and had few reserves.  Not enough was spent on civilian infrastructure, such as railroads and industry.  Officer education was woefully inadequate.  Training exercises were more like parades than tactical problems.  On the other hand, the individual Russian soldier fought well in both wars and the army made good choices on simple, robust weapons like the 1891 Mosin-Nagant rifle, the 76.2mm field gun and the Maxim machine-gun.  Although only briefly mentioned in the book, it is apparent upon reflection that the Russian Navy was a waste of resources then, as now.  Fully 25% of the military budget went to support a fleet that was annihilated in 1905 and inactive in 1914-7.  This money would have been better spent building up an air force. The maps are hard to read and insufficient to follow major battles.	2001-02-23
2099182:US	52533596	R6LSZI67A5947	0960273603	108391310	Attacks	Books	4	66	74	N	N	A Treatise on Maneuver Warfare by One Who Knew How to Do It	This book covers Erwin Rommel's First World War experiences, from August 1914 to November 1917.  Rommel served in interesting areas: France 1914-5, Romania 1916-7 and Italy 1917. The book was written in 1937 and is less a memoir than a manual on infantry operations.  There is very little human detail.  Nor is there any analysis of the big picture (Rommel was only a battalion commander by 1917).  German troops are made to look invincible; the French, Italians and Romanians are depicted as second-rate.  Rommel was a very aggressive mountain infantry officer and won the Pour le Merit in the Caporetto offensive.  The tone is subtlety braggadocio.  Rommel's style was overly aggressive and similar to Caesar's in the Balkans and Egypt: bold thrusts and pursuits with handfuls of troops which sometimes got Rommel into some very tight spots.  He was almost killed or captured on several occasions.  Note, the tactical lessons are too narrow to draw useful conclusions from other than: dig in whenever you stop, conduct reconnaissance while the main body rests/prepares and never stop pursuing a beaten foe.  Logistics was evidently not one of Rommel's strengths and would later hurt him in Africa. Excellent sketch maps for most major actions.  When I visited the Caporetto area in 1996 I brought Rommel's book and was easily able to relate the sketch maps to the terrain.	2001-02-18
2106936:US	52533596	RNSKKHKQFUDKR	0252010914	354665950	The Bayonets of the Republic:  Motivation and Tactics in the Army of Revolutionary France, 1791-94	Books	3	3	8	N	N	A Non-Military Analysis of a Military Subject	This is a very academic study of the French Arm&eacute;e du Nord in 1791-4.  There are only two maps and no useful appendices.  Lynn follows the non-military approach of Janowitz, looking at small group dynamics, political education, etc.  There is useful analysis of French doctrine on use of columns, bayonets, artillery, etc.  Would have been much better if he had analyzed French forces using more extensive methodology; Lynn ignored intelligence, command control, engineers and only touched on logistics.  Lynn also ignored Austrian and Prussian enemies: how good were they?  He should have analyzed key battles in greater detail.  This was a distinctly non-military study of a military issue.  Lynn concludes that the French had developed a new, flexible tactical doctrine by 1794 that when combined with revolutionary &eacute;lan, made them a force to be reckoned with on the battlefield.	2001-02-11
2107095:US	52533596	R10TUZX753RO9F	0850524695	345914331	The Charge: The Real Reason Why the Light Brigade Was Lost	Books	5	5	5	N	N	This is How Military History Should Be Written	This is the kind of book that shows how military history should be written.  Although the maps and battle sketches are crude they are very effective in making Adkin's case.  This is a careful military analysis of the Light Brigade's charge in October 1854, during the Crimean War, with the emphasis on untangling the hows and whys surrounding the mangled orders process that resulted in the charge.  The usual culprit, the Cavalry Division commander Lord Lucan, is partly exonerated and receives only mild criticism.  The primary culprits in Adkin's view are Lord Raglan and his ADC Captain Nolan.  Adkin believes Nolan may have deliberately indicated the incorrect objective.  Also interesting is the dissection of the actual charge, such as how many rounds were fired at the brigade and how the casualties were not as spectacular as is often claimed.  It is interesting to note how incompetent the British chain of command appears next to the &quot;amateur&quot; generalship displayed seven years later in the American Civil War; even a Mclellan appears preferable to an (...) like Cardigan, the Light Brigade commander.  The only omissions in this otherwise fine book: what kind of casualties did the Russian artillery battery suffer? What happened to the Light Brigade survivors in the brutal winter that followed?	2001-02-11
2107499:US	52533596	R3JVT1X8YELZN5	0814755607	221805635	Benedict Arnold, Revolutionary Hero: An American Warrior Reconsidered	Books	3	4	10	N	N	An Attempt to Polish up Arnold's Image	This is a biography of a controversial, but relatively little-known American.  The maps are crude.  The writing style is a bit dry and convoluted with barely-relevant details about Arnold's detractors.  This is an attempt to portray Arnold as a noble hero who fought hard for the revolution but was mistreated by an ungrateful Congress.  Arnold certainly played a major and heroic role in the war.  Ethan Allen and Horatio Gates are villainized as puffed-up zeroes.  Unfortunately, the author glosses over Arnold's treachery; his last twenty years are covered in less than ten pages.  There are interesting viewpoints on military professionalism vs. civilian control of the military. Arnold got a lot of the dirty combat jobs that other officers shirked - like Valcour island and organizing a covering force north of Saratoga. There is no doubt that Arnold was one of our best combat leaders in the Revolution but he was also a traitor, and that is a sad fact.	2001-02-11
2107556:US	52533596	R2JFGD8LP231P2	080504681X	510058680	Saratoga: Turning Point of America's Revolutionary War	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Not As Good As Earlier Ketchum Books	This is the story of British General Burgoyne's invasion of New York/Vermont in 1777.  The maps are barely adequate - too few and don't show military actions fully.  Ketchum's strength is his writing style which is fluid and readable.  There are lots of interesting period details and interesting military details.  Burgoyne was an ambitious braggart but he was also a soldier well in advance of his day, requiring officers to read military-related books and treat their men as human beings.  His management of the campaign however was loose.  Ketchum portrays Arnold in derogatory fashion, as vain and quarrelsome.  Gates' inactivity is explained away.  The actual battle is covered rather quickly in the last 100 pages; Ketchum fails to show the tactical picture very well.  There is no order of battle or analysis of the battle.  This work is not as good as Ketchum's earlier Revolutionary War books.	2001-02-11
2107656:US	52533596	R2CZRQ02C8DM0I	0802116620	158786120	The Battle	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	An Excellent Historical Novel	The French novelist Patrick Rambaud has written an excellent historical novel that is based on several eyewitness memoirs.  The subject is the Battle of Aspern-Essling in May 1809, which was Napoleon's first serious battlefield defeat.  Napoleon attempted the most difficult military operation of all: an opposed river-crossing against an alert and resolute enemy.  A hard-fought two-day battle for the villages of Aspern-Essling resulted, exposing the fact that the emperor was not infallible and that he could make mistakes.  Rambaud's version of this brutal slugging match is equally brutal.  Heads are blown off by roundshot, civilians are murdered and the thousands of wounded are left to suffer in the rain and mud.  Numerous soldiers, including one of the fictional enlisted soldiers, commit suicide under the stress of battle.  This novel is not as good a work as Michael Shaara's The Killer Angels, partly because Rambaud does not attempt to interpret what the characters were thinking.  The other reason is that there are no Austrian characters; in Killer Angel's, Shaara brilliantly portrayed soldiers from both sides and their efforts to prevail over the other, but that balance is lacking here.<br /> The characters in the battle range from Napoleon on high, to Marshals Massena and Lannes, to mid-rank soldiers and even a few enlisted soldiers, although the focus tends to stay mostly on the upper ranks.  Massena is probably the most interesting figure in the novel, since his battlefield performance as Aspern was incredible.  Others however, like Colonel Lejeune, a general staff officer, become tedious as he spends far too much of the novel mooning of his Austrian girlfriend in captured Vienna.  Rambaud also omits or alters some key aspects of the battle.  The French three-division counterattack on the second day is portrayed as a success in breaking the Austrian center when in fact, the nearly-routed Austrians were personally rallied by Archduke Charles and their center held.  The French attack ran out of steam, but Rambaud's account says that the French called of the attack because their bridges over the Danube had been broken.  In fact, Rambaud clearly portrays the cause of this defeat as bad luck and the rising waters of the Danube River in frustrating Napoleon's efforts to get reinforcements across the river.  In reality, Napoleon's slipshod river-crossing effort and gross underestimation of the enemy were prime contributors to his defeat.  The fact that the Austrian army had learned something from its earlier defeats in 1796-7, 1800 and 1805 at Napoleon's hands is not even alluded to.<br /> The strength of this novel lies in excellent battle descriptions that convey both the desperation and futility of this action.  However a weakness of the novel is the addition of minor characters and sub-plots, including a dim-witted assassination attempt on Napoleon and opera performances, that distract the reader from the battle.  These minor characters and sub-plots persist to the end, but without resolution or even relevance.  Nevertheless, Rambaud's novel gives an excellent &quot;feel&quot; for what it was like to be in a Napoleonic battle.eld.  The French attack ran out of steam, but Rambaud's account says that the French called of the attack because their bridges over the Danube had been broken.  In fact, Rambaud clearly portrays the cause of this defeat as bad luck and the rising waters of the Danube River in frustrating Napoleon's efforts to get reinforcements across the river.  In reality, Napoleon's slipshod river-crossing effort and gross underestimation of the enemy were prime contributors to his defeat.  The fact that the Austrian army had learned something from its earlier defeats in 1796-7, 1800 and 1805 at Napoleon's hands is not even alluded to.  <br /> The strength of this novel lies in excellent battle descriptions that convey both the desperation and futility of this action.  However a weakness of the novel is the addition of minor characters and sub-plots, including a dim-witted assassination attempt on Napoleon and opera performances, that distract the reader from the battle.  These minor characters and sub-plots persist to the end, but without resolution or even relevance.  Nevertheless, Rambaud's novel gives an excellent &quot;feel&quot; for what it was like to be in a Napoleonic battle.	2001-02-11
2115371:US	52533596	R6XIOI0DM1LJU	0060975768	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once... and Young: Ia Drang--The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	8	11	N	N	An Exciting Battle Account that Must be Viewed With Caution	This is the story of the Battle of Ia Drang, Vietnam, in November 1965.  It strength lies in great first-person battle accounts.  There is also good background information on the US 1st CAV Division, commanders and North Vietnamese units and commanders.  The 1-7th CAV fight at LZ X-RAY under LTC Moore is portrayed as heroic stand against the odds, but their are a number of troubling issues.  Despite intelligence that there was at least one or more NVA battalions near the Landing Zone, Moore landed without much of a ground tactical plan.  Moore seems to hedge whether his mission was merely to find the enemy on the Chu Phong Massif or to assault and seize the terrain.  If reconnaissance was the intent, why was the scout platoon not sent in first?  If assault was the intent, did Moore honestly think he could assault a larger force atop a mountain with only part of his battalion?  Old Apache motto: one man sees as many as ten men; Moore took too many in for recon and too few for an assault.<br />  Initially, brigade HQ did not designate any follow-on forces if contact was achieved and allocated only 16 UH-1s and 3 CH-47s to the operation (less than 5% of the division's helicopters).  This was a poorly-conceived operation that begged for trouble.  Moore surrendered the initiative immediately when he decided to defend the LZ and suffered 40% casualties in the process.  Readers should note that the highest ranking casualty was the battalion S-2 (intelligence officer), who was killed while firing at the enemy - not his job.  Moore also made the typical mistake of using the battalion scouts as a reserve force, instead of for reconnaissance or security; when the NVA almost flanked his hard-pressed battalion, the scouts might have given some early warning.  The 1st CAV division commander should have piled all or most of the division on this effort and new LZs could have been created with engineers.  Very little imagination in the infantry community here - no way to win, since the enemy would withdraw into the Chu Phong hills as soon as he had had enough.<br />  The 2-7th CAV debacle on LZ ALBANY is presented as a command failure by LTC McDade but brigade again appears culpable with vague orders to march overland to a one-bird LZ.  What was the point?  Certainly 2-7th CAV was a new unblooded unit that got tired and sloppy and walked straight into a battalion-size ambush.  Maps are fair but could be better. Junior officers and soldiers who read this should be careful not to get snowed by heroic visions of glory in this account; the US soldiers fought well but their commanders were new to battle and made significant mistakes that contributed to the casualty rate.nce the enemy would withdraw into the Chu Phong hills as soon as he had had enough.  <br />    The 2-7th CAV debacle on LZ ALBANY is presented as a command failure by LTC McDade but brigade again appears culpable with vague orders to march overland to a one-bird LZ.  What was the point?  Certainly 2-7th CAV was a new unblooded unit that got tired and sloppy and walked straight into a battalion-size ambush.  Maps are fair but could be better. Junior officers and soldiers who read this should be careful not to get snowed by heroic visions of glory in this account; the US soldiers fought well but their commanders were new to battle and made significant mistakes that contributed to the casualty rate.	2001-02-04
2115400:US	52533596	RC1YVPJTEUN1D	0891414533	867599905	The Battle for Hunger Hill: The 1st Battalion, 327th Infantry Regiment at the Joint Readiness Training Cente r	Books	5	6	8	N	N	An Excellent Primer for Light Infantry Training	This is another good book by COL Daniel Bolger, this time about his battalion's (101st ABN) rotations to JRTC in 1994 and 1995.  Lots of great details and observations about JRTC and the OPFOR. Bolger's battalion was badly abused in its 1994 rotation and he decided to get even the next time, which was fortunately less than a year later.  Bolger criticizes the Deliberate Decision Making Process (DDMP), big Tactical Operation Centers and suggests alternatives.  Thought-provoking as always but I don't agree with everything he says.  There is no doubt that the US Army's cumbersome DDMP is geared toward set-piece, short-term battles but Bolger's approach combines common sense with anti-staff bias to try and just avoid all that messy staff work.  From the intelligence viewpoint, he is dead wrong because Intelligence Preparation of the Battlefield (IPB) does save lives and it does take time to do it right.  Bolger's command instincts are good, particularly about nitty gritty items like reducing soldier loads, but there is bias here that detracts from his message.  For example, sometimes he says erroneous things, like the S-2 (intelligence officer) is on the S-3's staff (the S-2 works for the commander, not the S-3).  Maps are poor.	2001-02-04
2117170:US	52533596	RPH8606488K9B	0806125306	360266873	A Hessian Diary of the American Revolution	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A German Soldier's View of the American Revolution	This book is an interesting diary by a private in the German Bayreuth regiment, who served in America during 1777-1781. Dohla was captured at Yorktown, imprisoned in Maryland and not repatriated until 1783.  Particularly poignant are examples of how German officers maintained brutal discipline and this brutality undermined morale.  The diary is filled with desertion after desertion. Relations between British and German troops appeared decent.  There is only limited discussion of combat operations in this account because Dohla's unit usually seemed to miss most actions for one reason or another, but there is plenty of skirmishing.  Dohla's comments on America are interesting from the point of view of the common soldier.  Unfortunately, there are no maps.	2001-02-02
2117222:US	52533596	R20JVEKXZXRD82	0700609784	562488507	The Battle of Kursk (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	96	107	N	N	A Little Bit of New Wine in Old Bottle	The crux of this volume is new Soviet archival material on STAVKA decision-making but there is actually little new here.  At less than 300 pages, this is somewhat short-shrift to a major battle.  There is no discussion of air operations or partisans.  Very limited profile of commanders and their forces, but excellent order of battle information.  The Germans placed their faith in the 407 heavy tanks available (102 Tigers, 200 Panther and 105 Ferdinands) but they split them up too much; they should have massed their best weaponry in one sector.  It is no surprise that ArmeeGruppe South made much better progress; they had much more artillery support (Center relied mostly on assault guns in direct fire mode), and much better engineer support (South had about eight corps-level engineer battalions but Center had no corps-level engineers).  Glantz asks and answers several key questions: did Hitler really push Zitadelle (no, Zeitzler, Kluge and others pushed it beforehand but then blamed Hitler later), could the attack have succeeded in May (unlikely, given the weather and the disparity in forces) and what if the Germans had eschewed the attack and opted for a mobile defense (this would have bought them time, but there was no consensus for this strategy so it was highly unlikely to be adopted.  It would also have required Hitler to relinquish command in the east to a CinC).  Maps ok but uses cumbersome abbreviations.  No terrain analysis.	2001-02-02
2117603:US	52533596	R158A0HS4RJOGI	0870815040	524119755	From Yorktown to Valmy: The Transformation of the French Army in an Age of Revolution	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	The French Army in Microcosm	This academic study focuses on Rochambeau's expeditionary corps sent to America in 1778; the first half deals with the war in America and the second half with the impact of the French Revolution on the units when they returned to France.  It is apparent that the corps was a hand-picked force by the standard of the day, and it performed well in America.  Unfortunately, Scott does not spend much time detailing the French combat performance at Yorktown.  Back in France, the units stuck together better than most during the Revolution, but eventually blended into the melting pot. No maps.	2001-02-02
2117656:US	52533596	R15LJDTKQ1TXB6	0306809494	215852419	Hitler's Spies: German Military Intelligence In World War II	Books	4	53	55	N	N	German Military Intelligence from A to Z	In 1978, David Kahn attempted to write the first comprehensive history of German military intelligence in the Second World War.  There results are mixed.  The author is to be applauded for shedding considerable new light on this heretofore-neglected subject.  However, this is an anecdote-driven study, not a comprehensive history.  To be sure, Kahn covers virtually every aspect of intelligence collection and analysis in the Third Reich.  In itself, the scope of this work is impressive and the reader quickly gains an appreciation for the amount of research required to produce this result.<br /> Organizationally, the book is divided into three main sections.  After a sixty-page prologue that outlines the origins of German military intelligence, the first section details all the various collection agencies in the next 300 pages.  Everything from agents, to radio intercept units, Luftwaffe interrogators, aerial and tactical reconnaissance is covered, each in its own chapter.  The second section, of 69 pages, covers the various organizations that analyzed intelligence in the Third Reich.  The final section, 75 pages long, analyzes three case studies (Operations Barbarossa, Torch and Overlord) where German intelligence failed.  A 20-page conclusion outlines Kahn's theories on why German intelligence failed in its mission.  There are also many useful extras, including excellent photos, original documents and a 1943 intelligence organization chart.<br /> While most sections are usually interesting to read, the anecdote-driven nature of this work is a severe detractor.  The chapters bounce around chronologically, with Kahn typically providing an anecdote from the 1940 French campaign, then the Russian Front and then one from the Normandy campaign.  This is a potentially misleading method for painting the portrait of an entire organization, by attempting to draw general conclusions from a few specific examples.  Kahn consistently paints a picture of a fumbling, inept German intelligence effort, while ignoring similar Allied and Soviet intelligence failures in 1940-1942.<br /> Kahn's conclusions are very contentious.  While grudgingly admitting that Germany was able to score some tactical intelligence successes that aided the early blitzkriegs, he blames the failure of strategic intelligence on five factors.  Somehow, Kahn sees &quot;unjustified arrogance&quot; as a peculiarly German trait that caused the Wehrmacht to slight intelligence.  Kahn's pro-British bias is striking; did not British General Browning ignore repeated indications that German armor was deployed near Arnhem in 1944?  Kahn makes a great deal of one episode in 1945 where a dejected Hitler sweeps aside aerial photos indicating the coming Soviet offensive against Berlin, but Browning did virtually the same thing when shown low-level photos of SS panzers near Arnhem.  The British Army also had a long history of arrogance leading to disaster at places ranging from Yorktown, Isandhlwana, Gallipoli, the Somme to Arnhem.  A second poorly argued factor is the supposed greater need for intelligence on the defense.  Knowledge of the terrain, weather and enemy dispositions is equally important on the offense or defense.  While Kahn is correct in asserting that Germany's sudden entry into aggressive war did not give the Abwehr sufficient time to establish spy networks in England, the rest of this argument is founded on half-digested readings of Clausewitz.  A third argument, that Nazi anti-Semitism &quot;deprived German intelligence of many brains&quot; is downright silly.  Kahn infers that German intelligence, particularly code-breaking, would have been enhanced if Jewish mathematicians had not been purged.  This ignores the fact that Allied breakthroughs were made by non-Jews like Turing and exaggerates the impact of a minority to alter the character of a dictatorship.  The Third Reich had plenty of gifted individuals, many of whom gave their all for the regime.  It didn't matter.<br /> Two final contributing factors are more pertinent.  There is no doubt that the authority structure of the Fuehrer state inhibited the proper analysis of information as Kahn asserts.  Hitler was a megalomaniac who increasingly rejected information that contradicted his view of &quot;reality&quot;.  However, the larger assertion that the culture of the German officer corps was endemically hostile to intelligence is weak.  It is obvious that Kahn has never worked as an intelligence officer on a military staff, because he puts great stock in German regulations that state that the &quot;intelligence officer works for the operations officer&quot;.  One hears such attitudes in every army, including the US Army, and it is not due to intrinsic German factors.  Furthermore, Kahn's assertion that Allied staffs were more efficient is laughable; the Allies based their staff methods on earlier German staff methods, but lacked the professionalism added by a General Staff cadre.  Finally, the assertion that the General Staff officers assigned to intelligence were &quot;second-rate&quot; is oxymoronic, since these officers were the top 5% of the Wehrmacht.<br /> Despite thorough research, it is obvious that Kahn does not really understand intelligence operations.  Crucial concepts like the intelligence cycle of task-collect-analyze-disseminate are never really discussed, but every phase counts.  While Kahn continuously pounds on the Germans for poor efforts in collection and analyzing, he ignores tasking and dissemination.  Did the Germans ask the right questions?  It appears not, since although their various collectors gathered huge amounts of data about the enemy, there seemed to be no specific priorities.  Much of intelligence work is separating the volumes of chaff from the small amount of wheat but the Germans clearly failed in this crucial task.  As for dissemination, Kahn does not address this issue, but it would be interesting to know how much the &quot;I've got a secret club&quot; prevented crucial information from reaching the troops in a timely manner.<br /> This book should be on every professional intelligence officer's shelf, but taken with a grain of salt.  Broad generalizations about ethnic tendencies or factors intrinsic only to one army should be viewed critically.er.<br /> Two final contributing factors are more pertinent.  There is no doubt that the authority structure of the Fuehrer state inhibited the proper analysis of information as Kahn asserts.  Hitler was a megalomaniac who increasingly rejected information that contradicted his view of &quot;reality&quot;.  However, the larger assertion that the culture of the German officer corps was endemically hostile to intelligence is weak.  It is obvious that Kahn has never worked as an intelligence officer on a military staff, because he puts great stock in German regulations that state that the &quot;intelligence officer works for the operations officer&quot;.  One hears such attitudes in every army, including the US Army, and it is not due to intrinsic German factors.  Furthermore, Kahn's assertion that Allied staffs were more efficient is laughable; the Allies based their staff methods on earlier German staff methods, but lacked the professionalism added by a General Staff cadre.  Finally, the assertion that the General Staff officers assigned to intelligence were &quot;second-rate&quot; is oxymoronic, since these officers were the top 5% of the Wehrmacht.  <br /> Despite thorough research, it is obvious that Kahn does not really understand intelligence operations.  Crucial concepts like the intelligence cycle of task-collect-analyze-disseminate are never really discussed, but every phase counts.  While Kahn continuously pounds on the Germans for poor efforts in collection and analyzing, he ignores tasking and dissemination.  Did the Germans ask the right questions?  It appears not, since although their various collectors gathered huge amounts of data about the enemy, there seemed to be no specific priorities.  Much of intelligence work is separating the volumes of chaff from the small amount of wheat but the Germans clearly failed in this crucial task.  As for dissemination, Kahn does not address this issue, but it would be interesting to know how much the &quot;I've gota secret club&quot; prevented crucial information from reaching the troops in a timely manner.  <br /> This book should be on every professional intelligence officer's shelf, but taken with a grain of salt.  Broad generalizations about ethnic tendencies or factors intrinsic only to one army should be viewed critically.	2001-02-02
2118058:US	52533596	R1Z3U49ITUODKO	0935810544	291806212	The Guts to Try	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Desert One from the Air Force Perspective	This is the story of the April 1980 hostage rescue mission into Iran written by the USAF MC-130 commander.  There are many interesting insight into the mission planning, including intelligence gaps and Kyle follows the development of the plan from conception to execution.  One particularly odd item is the overconfidence that Desert One was a deserted area, when even the pre-raid reconnaissance mission saw signs of activity.  COL Beckwith, Delta commander, appears as an inflexible jackass who can't back off by even one man from his 130-man force for an embassy takedown.  The plan always appeared flawed and attempting to do too much with helicopters.  Even if the force had gotten to Tehran it is apparent that the extraction plan was overly-optimistic and likely to turn into a debacle.  Maps adequate.	2001-02-02
2118125:US	52533596	R3ROASMGRSA1GR	0879280646	176962035	Yorktown Campaign and the Surrender of Cromwallis, 1781	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Dated, but Still Useful Account of Yorktown Campaign	Although written in 1881, this book remains as a well-written summary of the campaign with detailed order of battle and casualty appendices.  Although the British typically blame the defeat on the failure of the Royal Navy this is just passing the blame.  The fact is that despite having several months to prepare a defense, adequate supplies and a superiority in cavalry, the British army put up a lackluster defense of Yorktown.  There was essentially no covering force battle to delay Washington and Rochambeau, despite the presence of Banastre Tarleton's elite cavalry.  One suspects that the British professional soldiers already felt the war was lost and were less than eager to lose their lives in a lost cause.  Casualties were amazingly light (only 7% of the total force) and mostly concentrated in the German units (who suffered 38% of the casualties but were only 23% of the army). After the surrender, the quantity of ammunition and supplies captured indicate the British could have fought on longer. Maps are adequate.	2001-02-02
2118274:US	52533596	R2E4BEZ6KB1A5Y	0714648574	31176586	The Bear Went Over the Mountain:  Soviet Combat Tactics in Afghanistan	Books	5	16	18	N	N	An Excellent Russian View of the War in Afghanistan	This book is a series of vignettes by Russian officers at the Frunze Military Academy on their experiences in Afghanistan, ranging from attack, defense, raids and reconnaissance.  Oddly, the Russians typically misused their reconnaissance units in a combat role.  Most Soviet units were seriously undermanned - usually only about 30% strength.  Lack of a real counterinsurgency doctrine was a serious handicap.  The sketch maps are very good, despite use of Soviet symbology.	2001-02-02
2119460:US	52533596	R1RKQVX70JOMYN	0393049949	762531115	Hitler: 1936-1945 Nemesis	Books	3	158	210	N	N	A Self-Hating, Biased Account of the Nazi Dictator	Ian Kershaw, an English historian and academic, has written the second volume of his biography of the Nazi Dictator.  Unfortunately, it is hard to see what this book adds to our knowledge of Hitler that was not already presented in previous accounts by Bullock, Toland, Fest, Keegan and Flood.  Kershaw's account relies heavily on Josef Goebbel's diary and the post-war accounts of other close Hitler cronies; unfortunately their self-serving and self-deceptive views do not clarify Hitler, they obscure him.<br /> However the biggest flaw of this account is the subtle but pervasive bias throughout.  Kershaw states up front that he detests Hitler but is obviously fascinated by his career.  Later, Kershaw concludes that Hitler was &quot;an ill-educated beerhall demagogue and racist bigot&quot;.  While true, it is an incomplete description.  Yet for Kershaw it is enough and he uses this account to paint a portrait of Hitler almost as a self-destructive fool who was incapable of seeing reality.  Not only Hitler, but the Third Reich, the Whermacht itself, most of the generals and even the German people seem pretty incapable and fatalistic here.<br /> Nowhere is Kershaw's account more biased than in his account of wartime operations. German successes are minimized, the campaigns in Poland, France, Norway and the Balkans get one page or less each.  Kershaw attempts to chide the German Navy by stating that the cruiser Blucher was sunk &quot;by a single shell from an ancient coastal battery&quot;.  In fact, the cruiser was hit by two 11&quot;, thirteen 6&quot;, thirty 57mm shells and two torpedoes and despite this loss, the Germans still took Oslo.  On the other hand, Allied disasters are totally ignored.  Kershaw portrays Hitler's anguish over the loss of the Bismarck (mistakenly identified as a &quot;pocket battleship&quot;), but fails to mention the loss of HMS Hood.  Hitler triumphs, like the glider assault on Fort Eban Emael or the sinking of HMS Royal Oak in Scapa Flow are ignored.  Allied defeats, like Kasserine Pass or Gazala, do not appear in these pages.  Later in the war, he notes the &quot;ceaseless bombing that the Luftwaffe was powerless to prevent,&quot; while ignoring the fact that the Luftwaffe in fact dealt the Royal Air Force night bombers severe setbacks in early 1944.  Arnhem is described as &quot;heavy fighting,&quot; no mention of the virtual destruction of the British 1st Airborne Division.  The Ardennes Offensive is described only in negative terms, no mention of the surrender of most of the US 106th Division or the initial panic all the way back to Eisenhower.<br />  On the eastern front, it is much the same.  Kershaw states about Operation Barbarossa, &quot;in retrospect, it seems sheer idiocy&quot; and says that, &quot;Hitler's best strategy in autumn 1940 would have been to sit tight and await developments&quot;.  It is hard to see what developments might have occurred to help Germany after 1941, and Hitler was certainly aware of this.  Kershaw then claims that Barbarossa failed in July 1941!  Absolutely ridiculous.  The 1942 Case Blue strategy is described as &quot;sheer lunacy&quot;.  Certainly Barbarossa and Blue had over-optimistic objectives with inadequate resources, but &quot;idiocy&quot; and &quot;lunacy&quot; are certainly inappropriate descriptions.  Kershaw ignores the fact that both offensives gained most of their objectives and had the Germans stopped to consolidate in time and been more flexible about retreats, then both offensives would have ended up as net gains for Germany.<br />  Kershaw, like many other historians, directs intense criticism toward Hitler's intervention in military operations.  To be sure, Hitler's mistakes in 1943-1945 cost Germany dearly.  However, this doesn't give the reader a balanced view for two reasons.  First, Hitler's interventions that were led to success are ignored.  The glider attack on Fort Eban Emael was Hitler's idea, but is not mentioned.  Nor are Hitler's orders to modify and enhance the German Panzer Arm in 1940-1 covered here, although they might show where Hitler was ahead of the &quot;technical expert&quot; (in fact, there were some real dunces in the German ordnance bureau).  On the second count, Kershaw ignores the disastrous interference of other wartimes leaders like Churchill and Stalin.  Churchill badly hurt the British war effort by diverting forces to Greece in 1941, then Singapore in 1942, then ordering a &quot;no retreat&quot; from Tobruk and later diverting RAF Bomber Command to bomb political rather than strategic targets.  Stalin's stupidity in 1941 cost the Soviet Union 3 million men through &quot;no retreat&quot; tactics, and then thousands more in early 1942 in premature offensives.  Furthermore, modern American presidents have involved themselves with micromanagement in military affairs that Hitler would never have dreamed of: Johnson had a terrain model of Khe Sanh built in the White House in 1968 and he attempted to direct units down to company level!  The Kosovo War in 1999 allowed leaders to direct individual aircraft or missiles.  Furthermore, the loathing and distrust that Hitler felt for his generals was echoed in 1968 and 1999 by US presidents who did not trust their military advisors.  A less biased author might have been able to note that Hitler's interference was neither unique or wholly inimical.<br />  By the end, it is apparent that this is a very flawed and biased account.  Even murderers like Hitler deserve an honest account but Kershaw does not deliver that.  Hitler was evil but he was also tinged with genius (Kershaw would say it was gambler's luck) and charisma, and he was also genuinely popular in Nazi Germany.  The fact that a man from such a meager background could rise to control not only Germany but much of Europe is still staggering.  So yes, he was &quot;an ill-educated beerhall demagogue and racist bigot&quot; as Kershaw describes, but he was also a lot more than that.  He was a man who had the ability to rise from obscurity to threaten the entire human race with his evil vision.  However in a self-hating account such as this, Hitler appears little more than a whimsical dreamer.itler's orders to modify and enhance the German Panzer Arm in 1940-1 covered here, although they might show where Hitler was ahead of the &quot;technical expert&quot; (in fact, there were some real dunces in the German ordnance bureau).  On the second count, Kershaw ignores the disastrous interference of other wartimes leaders like Churchill and Stalin.  Churchill badly hurt the British war effort by diverting forces to Greece in 1941, then Singapore in 1942, then ordering a &quot;no retreat&quot; from Tobruk and later diverting RAF Bomber Command to bomb political rather than strategic targets.  Stalin's stupidity in 1941 cost the Soviet Union 3 million men through &quot;no retreat&quot; tactics, and then thousands more in early 1942 in premature offensives.  Furthermore, modern American presidents have involved themselves with micromanagement in military affairs that Hitler would never have dreamed of: Johnson had a terrain model of Khe Sanh built in the White House in 1968 and he attempted to direct units down to company level!  The Kosovo War in 1999 allowed leaders to direct individual aircraft or missiles.  Furthermore, the loathing and distrust that Hitler felt for his generals was echoed in 1968 and 1999 by US presidents who did not trust their military advisors.  A less biased author might have been able to note that Hitler's interference was neither unique or wholly inimical.  <br />  By the end, it is apparent that this is a very flawed and biased account.  Even murderers like Hitler deserve an honest account but Kershaw does not deliver that.  Hitler was evil but he was also tinged with genius (Kershaw would say it was gambler's luck) and charisma, and he was also genuinely popular in Nazi Germany.  The fact that a man from such a meager background could rise to control not only Germany but much of Europe is still staggering.  So yes, he was &quot;an ill-educated beerhall demagogue and racist bigot&quot; as Kershaw describes, but he was also a lot more than that.  He was a man who had the ability to rise from obscurity to threaten the entire human race with his evil vision.  However in a self-hating account such as this, Hitler appears little more than a whimsical dreamer.	2001-02-01
2119533:US	52533596	RWQOKQ1NXJVO6	081332498X	916630032	Arnhem 1944: The Airborne Battle	Books	5	16	16	N	N	How to Destroy an Airborne Division	This book represents another great effort by Martin Middlebrook.  At first, one might ask why another book on Operation Market-Garden is necessary.  The answer is that Middlebrook focus just on the actions of the units at Arnhem, ignoring the US airborne divisions further south and the advance of 30th Corps.  The result is an account that presents far more detail than most accounts of the Arnhem fighting, which tend to focus mainly on Lieutenant Colonel Frost's battalion at Arnhem bridge.<br /> Middlebrook begins his account with an in-depth description of the British 1st Airborne Division that covers every battalion and subordinate unit in detail.  Readers will learn what every key unit, including the oft-neglected support units, could contribute to the battle.  I was surprised to learn for example, just how many anti-tank guns that the British took to Arnhem: 52 six-pounders (57mm) and 16 seventeen-pounders (76mm).  Most accounts of the battle do not mention the seventeen pounders, which gave the British a decent anti-tank weapon against even the heavier German tanks in the vicinity.<br /> Arnhem was a very controversial operation and Middlebrook does not sidestep the controversy, but he does not become mired in it.  The planning errors and false assumptions of Field Marshal Montgomery and the General Browning are duly noted.  Yet despite the deep flaws in the plan, Middlebrook likes to flirt with the notion of what might have been achieved with a little better luck and speed.  The chapter entitled &quot;The Vital Hours&quot; covers the very successful initial airborne landings and then details how sluggish many units were in actually moving toward Arnhem and the bridges.  Soldier load is an issue here that most writers ignore but not Middlebrook; one participant noted how the paratroopers were so weighted down with gear that they could only run a few yards and were then exhausted.  The one unit that made it to the bridge, Frost's battalion, had far more contact with the enemy than most sources suggest (the film A Bridge Too Far gives the impression that Frost's battalion marched to the bridge without even seeing any Germans) and only made it through due to unorthodox means.  Middlebrook notes that the British made the final stretch to the Arnhem bridge when, &quot;Frost led most of the battalion into a garden and then through the back door of a house and out the front door into another street...&quot;.<br /> A key question usually asked about Arnhem is why couldn't the British 1st Airborne Division break through to reinforce Frost?  Answering this question is probably the greatest value of this book.  First the 1st Parachute Brigade, then the 4th Parachute Brigade tried to break through in piece-meal fashion and with minimal support.  This section, which covers about 100 pages, offers a great deal of information about how the British destroyed their own division in a series of futile attacks.  Both the parachute brigades were destroyed in two days fighting, which fatally undermined the ability of the British to hold onto their vital drop zones for resupply.  The story of Frost and the bridge defense is also well-told but I find the story of the two parachute brigades far more compelling.  In essence, the British made the fatal mistake of not dropping closer to their objective and then ruined the bulk of their division trying to fight their way through to that objective.  Middlebrook uses these chapters to hammer home the reality that airborne units are configured for defense after rapid seizure, not sustained offensive operations and that this was the real crux of the disaster.  Had a more or less intact British airborne division with defensible drop zones established itself north of the Lower Rhine, then Montgomery might at least have gained a foothold north of the river.<br /> The battle of the Osterbeek perimeter and the subsequent withdrawal across the Rhine are covered in detail, but not as effectively as the earlier chapters.  The sketch maps supporting the text could have been better.  Nor is the treatment of the Polish Brigade's performance as in-depth as the earlier chapters, although the Middlebrook admits that the relief of General Sosabowski by the British was a shameful act.  There is a full chapter on the resupply flights, which are barely covered in other sources.  The aerial resupply effort was a colossal failure: 66 aircraft were lost and 222 men killed in order to deliver less than 200 tons of supplies to the British 1st Airborne Division.  This disaster occurred despite mild weather conditions and air superiority.  Middlebrook's detailed post-mortem is very interesting.  Although 21% of the division was evacuated losses among the infantry were catastrophic.  Only 405 members of the two British parachute brigades returned from the 3,461 who dropped into Holland.  Additionally, two experienced brigade commanders, eight battalion commanders and 26 company commanders were lost.  The division was essentially destroyed and the remnants were soon disbanded or attached to other units.<br /> Middlebrook concludes that there were numerous errors that contributed to this debacle but that the two most important were (a) the flawed air movement plan (which Middlebrook mostly blames on the Americans) and (b) the failure of the US Airborne Division to capture the Nijmegen bridge sooner and thereby facilitate the ground link-up with the British troops at Arnhem.  Although there is plenty of blame for the British commanders in this volume I feel that Middlebrook is too quick to point fingers at the Americans.  Market-Garden was after all, Montgomery's show.  Middlebrook might have been able to use this book as an interesting examination of British operational methods in the mid-20th Century.  The British army throughout the Second World War, was at its best in a well-planned set-piece battle and at it's worst in a highly-fluid chaotic battle.  The inflexibility of the British commanders is readily evident here and the reader must sympathize with the Polish General Sosabowski who was frustrated by their willingness to continue with a plan no matter how flawed.er chapters.  The sketch maps supporting the text could have been better.  Nor is the treatment of the Polish Brigade's performance as in-depth as the earlier chapters, although the Middlebrook admits that the relief of General Sosabowski by the British was a shameful act.  There is a full chapter on the resupply flights, which are barely covered in other sources.  The aerial resupply effort was a colossal failure: 66 aircraft were lost and 222 men killed in order to deliver less than 200 tons of supplies to the British 1st Airborne Division.  This disaster occurred despite mild weather conditions and air superiority.  Middlebrook's detailed post-mortem is very interesting.  Although 21% of the division was evacuated losses among the infantry were catastrophic.  Only 405 members of the two British parachute brigades returned from the 3,461 who dropped into Holland.  Additionally, two experienced brigade commanders, eight battalion commanders and 26 company commanders were lost.  The division was essentially destroyed and the remnants were soon disbanded or attached to other units.<br /> Middlebrook concludes that there were numerous errors that contributed to this debacle but that the two most important were (a) the flawed air movement plan (which Middlebrook mostly blames on the Americans) and (b) the failure of the US Airborne Division to capture the Nijmegen bridge sooner and thereby facilitate the ground link-up with the British troops at Arnhem.  Although there is plenty of blame for the British commanders in this volume I feel that Middlebrook is too quick to point fingers at the Americans.  Market-Garden was after all, Montgomery's show.  Middlebrook might have been able to use this book as an interesting examination of British operational methods in the mid-20th Century.  The British army throughout the Second World War, was at its best in a well-planned set-piece battle and at it's worst in a highly-fluid chaotic battle.  The inflexibility of the British commanders is readily evident here and the reader must sympathize with the Polish General Sosabowski who was frustrated by their willingness to continue with a plan no matter how flawed.	2001-02-01
2124903:US	52533596	R13TLQ1AUHZ1BU	0804105006	843613118	Inside the VC and the NVA	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Some Useful Insights, but Not Much Depth	A decent look at VC/NVA training, equipment, recruiting, organization and logistics.  The authors were both combat veterans of Vietnam and their analysis carries credibility.  Unfortunately, the core of this book rests on two very subjective sections: captured VC/NVA diaries and post-war American surveys on the VC/NVA.  There is very little tactical analysis of how the VC/NVA fought and no analysis of specific actions (it would have been useful to dissect a few selective actions with accounts from both sides). Overall, the book is valuable for painting a portrait of a determined, resourceful enemy who made do with much less than we thought possible.  Most important is the conclusion that NVA morale was sustained by their indoctrination/propaganda and the value of group criticism/group cohesion.  Several maps, adequate but barely.	2001-01-27
2124970:US	52533596	R1D2W5MOWFT3F3	0891416730	193747658	Into Cambodia	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A Good Soldiers Account of the Cambodian Operation	The Cambodian invasion of 1970 is treated in a string of interrelated episodes; the story-telling is good but as military history, this falls short.  No real analysis because the author is non-military.  Note, intelligence is virtually ignored throughout the book; no S-2s were contributors (yet virtually every S-3 operations officer is listed).  The book does point out how armor-heavy the Cambodian incursion was and also how effective the NVA was in dealing with US armor.  Numerous M113 ACAVs and M551 Sheridans, as well as M48 Pattons were knocked out by the ever-present RPG-7s.  Nolan is a conservative, pro-military author who wants to paint the US military in a good light, but he does allow lapses, such as the occasional apathetic or druggie soldiers.  His conclusion is that the incursion was a military success that saved US lives and bought us 12-18 months of relative quiet from the enemy.  Unfortunately, he does not discuss ARVN operations much and ignores the wider political issues.  Better maps, an Order of Battle appendix, a little more info from the enemy side and a better strategic overview would have made this a superb book.	2001-01-27
2125006:US	52533596	R2EUXXMLP6OJFI	0195067924	991169375	Vietnam at War: The History: 1946-1975	Books	2	17	27	N	N	A Whitewashed General History of the Vietnam War	Lieutenant General Davidson (ret.) does a great job summarizing and analyzing the French war in IndoChina from 1946-1954, but fails miserably with the US campaign of 1965-1967 of which he was a part (as USMACV J-2, senior US intelligence officer in Vietnam).  The author is a major apologist for General Westmoreland.  Also, too much of the book centers on Washington politics rather than operational matters (which is a shame, he could have shed much light on the intelligence picture in the crucial 1967-8 campaigns).  Davidson ignores the crucial Battle of Ap Bac in 1963, the Son Tay Raid, My Lai massacre and the participation of allies (ROK, Australia).  The Crucial Tet campaign is glossed over - he never mentions the bloody Battle for Hue.  The author is far too political and seems intent to present a white-washed &quot;history&quot;.  Maps are somewhat crude but plentiful and accurate.	2001-01-27
2125192:US	52533596	R2KVAINIJ3SB74	0679457429	788789765	Hitler's U-Boat War: The Hunted: 1942-1945	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Great Detail But Not Much Analysis	Blair writes an intensely detailed operational history of the U-boat arm.  He is successful in demonstrating what the U-boats did not do: they never came close to cutting the Atlantic sea lanes.  The strength of this book is the tremendous detail on convoys, U-boat patrols and cumulative losses.  The weakness of this book (and it's predecessor) is a failure to provide either analysis or in-depth assessments.  Blair does not bother to tell us what the U-boats did accomplish (my conclusion based on Blair's facts; for the loss of 30,000 sailors Germany delayed the Anglo-American build-up by months, much precious war cargo was sunk even if it was only 1-2% of the total shipped and most important, huge Allied resources were diverted to anti-submarine warfare that otherwise might have gone to landing craft or armor production).  Blair never asks, what alternative did a cornered Germany have to continuing the U-boat war?  Blair slams German anti-aircraft tactics and the T-5 anti-destroyer torpedo, but the evidence indicates that both did achieve some success.  Blair has an in-built anti-German bias that minimizes their success.  There is very good detail on Enigma use here to win the Battle of the Atlantic and it is also amazing to see how many U-boats the Germans lost to non-combat causes (mostly collisions).  German naval competence is called into question here but not their dedication or bravery.  Blair never really tells us much about how the Kriegsmarine was able to continue building and manning U-boats right up to the end of the war or the effect of strategic bombing on German naval industry.  Amazingly, he criticizes the Type XXI submarine as fatally flawed but never describes its development or production history. Maps barely adequate.	2001-01-27
2125393:US	52533596	R90B0J4YTNUS0	0684839199	419002241	Alexander Hamilton, American	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Too Superficial	Like Brookhiser's previous book on George Washington, this is essentially a superficial and extended essay.  Nevertheless, the book does illustrate the awesome versatility of Hamilton: ardent patriot in the Revolution, key author of the Federalist papers and one of the men who got the US Constitution ratified and as first Secretary of the Treasury, the father of the American capitalist system.  Unfortunately, Brookhiser does not do this distinguished career justice; Hamilton's role at Trenton and his assault on Redoubt No. 9 at Yorktown is barely mentioned.  Hamilton's admission of responsibility in the nation's first public sex scandal is interesting in light of the contemporary Clinton-Lewinsky scandal.  However, by the end of the book, Brookhiser is quite tedious.	2001-01-27
2125394:US	52533596	R2G7SP6R78AVQZ	0679640320	890146488	Hitler's U-Boat War: The Hunters, 1939-1942 (Modern Library War)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	The Definitive History of the U-Boat War	A detailed history of the U-boat war in the Atlantic from 1939-1942.  Virtually every U-boat patrol in that period is covered.  Blair's theory is unique: that the U-boats were much less effective than conventional wisdom portrays and that the Germans never came close to cutting the Allied sea lines of communications.  In Blair's in-depth assessment, even the vaunted U-boats and their commanders seem weaker, more vulnerable.  The book does get a bit slow toward the end, perhaps a bit buried in detail.  Blair does a superb job integrating the role of intelligence into this story.  He has a wealth of new details about ENIGMA and other intelligence operations.  This is the definitive history of this campaign.	2001-01-27
2143188:US	52533596	R1G0NOA4DRDPGN	1841761028	945424617	Tarawa 1943: The turning of the tide (Campaign)	Books	3	18	20	N	Y	A Useful Summary of the Marine Corps Epic	British amateur historian Derrick Wright has written a thorough summary of the US Marine Corps landing on Tarawa Atoll in November 1943.  The subtitle, &quot;the turning of the tide&quot; is not appropriate however, since the tide of victory had already turned against the Japanese a year earlier at Midway and Guadalcanal.<br />  The author covers the battle in succinct but thorough day-by-day detail, from the marine landing to the conquest of the island three days later.  There are three appendices covering US and Japanese orders of battle and USMC casualties.  The three-D maps are good, but propably should have been zoomed in a bit more, since the area of fighting was quite small.<br />  There are no major flaws in the book, which does cover well-travelled ground after all, but there are several areas that could have been given better elaboration.  First, since this was the first major opposed landing for the US Marine Corps in the Second World War, a bit more space should have been given to amphibious doctrine.  Was the landing conducted in accord with existing doctrine and how was doctrine modified?  Second, the US Army landings on Makin should have been given a map and a little more detail.<br />  Otherwise, this is another useful, if not ground-breaking, Osprey Campaign summary.  The photographs are quite good also.	2001-01-12
2157271:US	52533596	R263028JIHY996	0891416749	799079744	Ringed in Steel: Armored Cavalry, Vietnam 1967-68	Books	2	7	9	N	N	A Staff Weenie's Odd Account of Vietnam	COL Michael D. Mahler served as the personnel officer (S-1) of the 1st Brigade/1st Infantry Division from August-December 1967 and Executive Officer of 3-5th Cavalry/9th Infantry Division from December 1967 to August 1968.  The weirdest thing about this memoir is that Mahler never identifies his own unit or any other, or any individuals; everything and everyone is referred to in generic terms.  It is very odd to read an account where no names are mentioned.  With all this secrecy, I'm surprised that Mahler didn't conceal that this was a Vietnam memoir and instead call it &quot;Orangeland&quot;.  Essentially, this is a collection of anecdotes, war stories and observations strung together.  Some are interesting, some are not.  This work is lacking in humanity, since there are no characters (just generic, faceless, company commanders, platoon leaders, etc.) and there are no great lessons here.  It is also odd for a non-green tabber (i.e. a unit commander) to be writing a memoir; the actual trigger-pullers might have done a better job.  There is not even any of the drama of supporting a combat unit; Mahler could have gotten much more into the specifics of armor logistics but instead he just glosses over it.  Overly generalized to a fault.  One suspects Mahler is some kind of weenie by the end.  Of note, the squadron intelligence officer (S-2) is never mentioned, so I guess intelligence and what the enemy was up to was not a big concern for Mahler. The maps are few and crude.  The only slight value of this book is the paucity of other armored unit memoirs from Vietnam.  This book is far inferior to Sergeant Ralph Zumbro's Tank Sergeant.	2001-01-01
2157624:US	52533596	R2D03H5H7D5V0X	070060944X	837526728	Zhukov's Greatest Defeat: The Red Army's Epic Disaster in Operation Mars, 1942 (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	94	97	N	N	A Fresh Account that Alters Our View of the Eastern Front	David M. Glantz, a military officer and expert on the Eastern Front in the Second World War, has written an excellent operational summary of the virtually unknown Operation &quot;Mars&quot; (the operation was such a disaster that the Soviets suppressed records of it until recently), the Soviet attempt to pinch off the German 9th Army in the Rhzev salient in November-December 1942.  Even readers familiar with the Eastern Front will find their beliefs altered by his book.  As Glantz clearly demonstrates, the well-known Operation Uranus counterattack at Stalingrad was actually a strategic deception for the main effort near Moscow.  Soviet Marshal Zhukov wanted to destroy ArmeeGruppe Center but he ordered the Stalingrad attack to precede Operation Mars in order to divert German attention and reinforcements to the south.  Unfortunately for him, the Germans did not become diverted and their defenses remained steady.  Unlike the 6th Army at Stalingrad, the German 9th Army was well entrenched and had powerful mobile reserves.  Zhukov's attack was a spectacular failure despite larger forces being used there than in the Stalingrad counteroffensive.  The Soviets failed primarily because they could not breach the German defenses quickly and the Germans (Field Marshal Model) did a superb job of shifting mobile reserves around to meet each crisis in turn.  Severe winter weather actually degraded the Soviet artillery preparation (poor visibility limited observed fires), which undermined the initial breakthroughs.  Amazingly, Zhukov continued to order frontal assaults for three weeks, even though the offensive was obviously failing to achieve its objectives in the first four days.  Soviet losses in the three week offensive on this front totaled at least 100,000 killed, 235,00 wounded and about 1,800 tanks.  German counterattacks cut off and eliminated three Soviet corps (one tank, one mechanized, and one rifle).  After the Stalingrad operation succeeded and Operation Mars failed, Soviet historians erased all mention of Zhukov's attack and instead re-wrote history to make it appear that Stalingrad always was the main effort.  The only deficiencies in this account that keep it from being outstanding are: (a) only marginal information is provided on the air campaign over the salient, (b) there is no detailed information on German forces defending the salient prior to Zhukov's attack (e.g. discussion of mobile reserves available, logistics, status of defenses, obstacles), and (c) no real assessment of Soviet units as to quality, equipment, training, prior experience, etc.  Maps are decent in terms of quantity and quality although use of acronyms instead of map symbols clutters maps and makes them difficult to read (e.g. &quot;6GCD&quot; for 6th Guards Cavalry Division).  However, if you want to learn something new and important about the Eastern Front, read this book.oviet historians erased all mention of Zhukov's attack and instead re-wrote history to make it appear that Stalingrad always was the main effort.  The only deficiencies in this account that keep it from being outstanding are: (a) only marginal information is provided on the air campaign over the salient, (b) there is no detailed information on German forces defending the salient prior to Zhukov's attack (e.g. discussion of mobile reserves available, logistics, status of defenses, obstacles), and (c) no real assessment of Soviet units as to quality, equipment, training, prior experience, etc.  Maps are decent in terms of quantity and quality although use of acronyms instead of map symbols clutters maps and makes them difficult to read (e.g. &quot;6GCD&quot; for 6th Guards Cavalry Division).  However, if you want to learn something new and important about the Eastern Front, read this book.	2001-01-01
2157648:US	52533596	R3TXVT6MV73BDC	0714642983	854515191	The Initial Period of War on the Eastern Front, 22 June - August 1941: Proceedings Fo the Fourth Art of War Symposium, Garmisch, October, 1987 (Soviet (Russian) Military Experience)	Books	3	11	13	N	Y	A Detailed but Shoddy Look At the First Days of Barbarossa	This book is essentially the transcript of a conference held at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas and focuses on the early period of Operation Barbarossa.  This could have been an awesome book; there is a wealth of data but it is poorly presented.  There are day-by-day sketch maps of each sector, but they are almost impossible to read.  Original German intelligence situation maps are included and they don't make German staff officers look very good; unit symbols are not used - they actually wrote &quot;RD&quot; for Rifle Division on the map.  This book is very useful in showing how much of a fight the Red Army really put up in the first month of the war; the Red Army of 1941 was clumsy, but not toothless.  Most readers will be unaware that the first big tank battle in Russia occurred when the Soviets were able to mount a very serious armored counterattack at Dubno on the Southwestern front. However, this book missed its opportunity due to very poor editing and wandering anecdotal reminisces of German veterans (one German officer concluded that combat officers need a good knowledge of military history AND the Bible!). There are over 200 maps, but most are crude and barely legible.	2001-01-01
2157874:US	52533596	R10A65KH02KVZY	0140284583	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege: 1942-1943	Books	2	35	47	N	N	A Journalistic Account That Lacks Historical Depth	For readers interested in an introduction to the Battle of Stalingrad, this book will probably suffice but for readers familiar with the subject and looking for greater historical depth, this book is a major disappointment.  Amazingly, the first 50 of 431 pages are wasted recounting the lead-up to Operation Barbarossa and the 1941 campaign, with very little relevant to ArmeeGruppe South.  Beevor's coverage of the early phase of Case Blue is pathetic; filled with random anecdotes and both the fight for Voronezh and the drive into the Caucasus are virtually ignored.  The book gets a little better once the city fighting into Stalingrad begins, but Beevor breaks no new ground here.  Maps are few and barely adequate.  A detailed city map would have been nice.  The best part of the book is the coverage of Operation &quot;Uranus&quot; and the kesselschlact.  This is essentially a journalistic account enhanced by some Soviet archival materiel, not military history.  Nor does Beevor attempt to put the Soviet victory at Stalingrad into a strategic context - did Germany lose the war here?  For example, Germany lost 3 panzer divisions at Stalingrad with about 500 tanks - heavy losses but not catastrophic in itself; most sources claim over 1,000 German tanks lost.  The book also sustains out-worn generalizations, such as the portrayal of the German 6th Army as a highly experienced, veteran formation.  In fact, of the 17 infantry divisions in 6th Army, 6 had no combat experience and 4 had been raised only in the 12 months prior to Stalingrad.	2001-01-01
2173435:US	52533596	RUKWD1W85O9YC	0850526485	697261380	The Battle of Neuve Chapelle	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Good History that Covers A Gap in WW1 History	The Battle of Neuve Chapelle in March 1915 is interesting because it was the first major attack launched by the British Expeditionary Force in the First World War. Earlier British counterattacks at the Marne and Ypres were hasty attacks against positions that lacked the barbed wire and trench defenses that appeared in 1915.  Neuve Chapelle was the first British deliberate attack against a defended trench line.  Unfortunately, this battle has not been well-covered in most other First World War histories, so this volume has a bounty of unique information.<br />  Although written primarly as a battlefield tour guide, this volume provides an excellent historical summary of the commanders and units involved, the plan and the events of the three-day battle.<br />  This book should be read by people who are conditioned to believe that all First World War battles were mindless, pointless slaughters.  In fact, the attack at Neuve Chapelle displayed a pattern that would be repeated again and again.  The initial attack on the first day deployed 15 British battalions against only three German battalions on a thinly-held part of the German front.  After a short 35 minute prepatory bombardment, the British quickly advanced across No Man's Land to seize Neuve Chapelle.  Aside from some problems on the flanks, the bulk of the British force reached their first day objectives in less than one hour at light cost.  Unfortunately, the British chain of command was slow to realize that they had in fact blown away the first German line of defense and they took many hours to commit reserve units to exploit the breach.  It was a fatal delay.  The Germans reinforced the crumbling front with several other units and even launched a desperate counterattack.  Like stubborn donkeys, the British commanders continued to attack for one more day despite the loss of suprise and the new strength of the German position.  Most of the 3,500 British deaths occurred in these last futile attacks.  What this shows is that despite all the pontification by John Keegan et al about the tactical circumstances of the First World War, that it was possible to achieve modest success at light cost.  The problem here was not that breaching the trench line was impossible with contemporary weapons or tactics - it wasn't - but that commanders were not satisfied with minor success, they kept gambling with their men's lives in hopes of the &quot;big breakthrough&quot;.  The final realization of how to take ground with properly coordinated infantry and artillery resulted in the French developing the &quot;Methodical Battle&quot; doctrine that they would take with them into the Second World War.<br />  One odd ommission of this book is the prominent attention given to the German 6th Bavarian Reserve Division in blunting the British attack.  The author fails to mention that Private Adolf Hitler was serving in this unit.  Considering all the attention given to British rank-and-file who won awards (and one who was executed for desertion) in this battle, the author should have showcased at least a few individual German soldiers in the battle.  Instead, he does not even mention the commanders of any of the German units.  Too much British bias here.<br />  The only failing of this book is a reluctance to analyze.  When examining the causes of the failure of the offensive to break the German line, the author tends to drift between looking at faulty decisions made by individual commanders to the command &amp; control problems inherent in a system with delayed communications.  The author fails to realize that an obvious amateur mistake made in the plan was launching an attack with a corps boundary in the middle, which added two corps chain of commands and three division chain of commands to an attack of only 15 battalions! Simplicity, one of the principles of war, suggests that only one corps should have been used in the initial assault (i.e. the one Indian brigade should have been attached to 4thCorps).  Also, the author fails to note the lack of any designated main effort and the linear-nature of the three objective lines, which promoted an &quot;everybody must stay on line&quot; mentality.  This tendency for broad-front/no main objective would plague the BEF for years and appear with catastrophic results at the Somme in 1916.<br />  The battle maps, photographs and vignettes are excellent.hed to 4th Corps).  Also, the author fails to note the lack of any designated main effort and the linear-nature of the three objective lines, which promoted an &quot;everybody must stay on line&quot; mentality.  This tendency for broad-front/no main objective would plague the BEF for years and appear with catastrophic results at the Somme in 1916.  <br />   The battle maps, photographs and vignettes are excellent.	2000-12-17
2173454:US	52533596	RFT8IM7N0QGJX	1841580015	125520508	Jutland to Junkyard	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	A Lightweight Account of the Greatest Salvage Operation	This book is an attempt to chronicle the greatest underwater salvage operation in history, which took place in Scapa Flow in the Orkney Islands between 1924 and 1939.  In June 1919, the surrendered German High Seas fleet, interned in Scapa Flow, scuttled itself to avoid being handed over to the victorious Allied nations.  At the time, it was thought that the ships were lost beyond retrieval.<br /> However a band of intrepid businessmen, engineers and divers decided that the ships could be raised and sold for scrap metal.  The initial effort, by Ernest Cox, started by raising the smaller German destroyers from relatively shallow water.  The author effectively describes the methods used to winch these light vessels up from the seabed.  Yet the best parts of the book focus on the intense efforts to raise the battleships.  All but one were lying upside down on the sea floor and they were usually 100-200 feet underwater.  Each battleship took about 9-10 months to raise and required the use of tall compression chambers drilled into the overturned hulls.<br /> Although Cox's company lost money on the salvage effort, another company that started in the 1930s was far more successful.  This company, Metal Industries, was able to realize a profit of about £50,000 on each battleship it raised.  By 1939, a total of 12 battleships, 1 light cruiser and 27 destroyers were raised.  Only 3 battleships and 4 light cruisers were left underwater since they were located too deep for economical salvage.<br /> The best value of this book is the large collection of unusual photographs of the raising of the sunken battleships and diagrams on how it was done.  However this book has a cursory quality to it and it is quickly apparent to the reader that the author has not expended much effort on research.  Most of the research in fact, appears based on contemporary local newspaper accounts.  It is also odd that the author devotes two chapters to the coming of the First World War and the Battle of Jutland, yet covers salvage operations since 1939 in only 2 pages! Although the book was written in 1973, the forward to this edition was written in 1999 and yet it fails to mention that steel from the sunken battleships was used on US space probes in the 1970s and 1980s due to its freedom from radiation.  The author does briefly mention that since all steel since 1945 has been slightly tainted by radiation, the high quality armor plate from the ships still under water in Scapa Flow possess a unique value but he fails to really address this current value of the salvage operations.<br /> This book is a useful addition for anyone who wants to learn the ultimate fate of the Kaiser's High Seas Fleet or to learn more about underwater salvage.  However, as history, this book is a lightweight.f Jutland, yet covers salvage operations since 1939 in only 2 pages! Although the book was written in 1973, the forward to this edition was written in 1999 and yet it fails to mention that steel from the sunken battleships was used on US space probes in the 1970s and 1980s due to its freedom from radiation.  The author does briefly mention that since all steel since 1945 has been slightly tainted by radiation, the high quality armor plate from the ships still under water in Scapa Flow possess a unique value but he fails to really address this current value of the salvage operations.<br /> This book is a useful addition for anyone who wants to learn the ultimate fate of the Kaiser's High Seas Fleet or to learn more about underwater salvage.  However, as history, this book is a lightweight.	2000-12-17
2174771:US	52533596	RS5WM9NW8Z1IV	0140440607	188361232	The Annals of Imperial Rome (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	67	75	N	Y	A Brilliant Account Marred Only by Missing Years and Bias	Tacitus (AD c.55-117), a Roman senator of the 2nd Century AD and famed historian, has written a brilliant year-by-year account of the Roman Empire from 14 AD to 66 AD.  The book begins with the last year of Augustus and the assumption of power by the new emperor Tiberius and concludes with the final years of Nero.  While certainly not the fault of either Tacitus or the contemporary editor, it is unfortunate that the book is missing vital chapters that have been lost over the centuries.  This is particularly galling because the gaps come in vital transitional years.  Thus, the loss of the chapters covering 30 and 31 AD leaves us without a description of the fall of Sejanus, commander of the Praetorian Guard under Tiberius.  It gets worse, with the nine years of 38-47 AD also missing.  This excludes the entire reign of Caligula and the first six years of Claudius' reign.  Finally, the last chapter is missing the years 67-69 AD which cover the fall of Nero and the beginning of civil war.  These missing years make the book painful to read because just as a particular section is reaching a climax, the main even is deleted.  Thus what remains of the history is mostly the middle years of Tiberius, Claudius and Nero.<br /> There is no doubt that Tacitus is a biased historian, despite his claims to impartiality.  According to him, Tiberius, Claudius and Nero were all pretty poor emperors, marred by gross personal and moral flaws.  This is far too simplistic, particularly given that nowhere does Tacitus espouse pro-Republican or anti-oligarchical opinions.  Claudius in particular comes off worse than most readers would expect, after a generally favorable modern image due to Robert Graves' I Claudius.  Tiberius is a highly controversial figure due to his aloof personality, but the portrait of him as a paranoid sex-obsessed maniac is more hostile than objective.  Tacitus fails to mention that the last century of the Roman Republic was marred by violence that affected most if not all of Roman society.  One man rule had given rulers the ability to eliminate most opposition but it had also centralized violence.  The beginning of the Pax Romana - the greatest gift of the principate to World history - is not apparent to Tacitus.<br /> The book does have interesting chapters on Germanicus' retribution campaign in Germany, a cohort that is decimated for cowardice in Africa and the revolt of Queen Boudicca in Britain. When the British are defeated in 60 AD and 80,000 are slaughtered, Tacitus proudly notes that, &quot;the Romans did not spare even the women.  Baggage animals too, transfixed with weapons, added to the heaps of dead.  It was a glorious victory...&quot; Some of Nero's part-time hobbies make interesting reading, too.  Nero liked to disguise himself and go out with a gang of thugs into the city of Rome at night and harass or assault people at random.  After several incidents where he himself was roughed up by his intended victims, Nero began taking gladiators along as bodyguards.  There is also a brief mention of Jesus Christ and Pontius Pilate, the only Roman mention of this trial.  However the book tends to drag down in places, like the treason trials of Tiberius and the purges of Nero.<br /> As far as this translation by Michael Grant, the translator has taken far too many liberties.  Readers familiar with the Roman Empire will be annoyed by Grant's clumsy use of &quot;brigade&quot; instead of &quot;legion&quot;, &quot;battalion&quot; instead of &quot;cohort&quot; and &quot;company commander&quot; instead of &quot;centurion&quot;.  Grant drifts further from the true meaning by referring to a legion plus its auxiliaries as a &quot;division&quot; and there are a number of other substitute terms.  These substitutions add nothing to reading clarity and it gets confusing when he refers to brigades and divisions simultaneously.  On the plus side, the maps at the end of the book and the appendices were quite useful.t all of Roman society.  One man rule had given rulers the ability to eliminate most opposition but it had also centralized violence.  The beginning of the Pax Romana - the greatest gift of the principate to World history - is not apparent to Tacitus.<br /> The book does have interesting chapters on Germanicus' retribution campaign in Germany, a cohort that is decimated for cowardice in Africa and the revolt of Queen Boudicca in Britain. When the British are defeated in 60 AD and 80,000 are slaughtered, Tacitus proudly notes that, &quot;the Romans did not spare even the women.  Baggage animals too, transfixed with weapons, added to the heaps of dead.  It was a glorious victory...&quot; Some of Nero's part-time hobbies make interesting reading, too.  Nero liked to disguise himself and go out with a gang of thugs into the city of Rome at night and harass or assault people at random.  After several incidents where he himself was roughed up by his intended victims, Nero began taking gladiators along as bodyguards.  There is also a brief mention of Jesus Christ and Pontius Pilate, the only Roman mention of this trial.  However the book tends to drag down in places, like the treason trials of Tiberius and the purges of Nero.<br /> As far as this translation by Michael Grant, the translator has taken far too many liberties.  Readers familiar with the Roman Empire will be annoyed by Grant's clumsy use of &quot;brigade&quot; instead of &quot;legion&quot;, &quot;battalion&quot; instead of &quot;cohort&quot; and &quot;company commander&quot; instead of &quot;centurion&quot;.  Grant drifts further from the true meaning by referring to a legion plus its auxiliaries as a &quot;division&quot; and there are a number of other substitute terms.  These substitutions add nothing to reading clarity and it gets confusing when he refers to brigades and divisions simultaneously.  On the plus side, the maps at the end of the book and the appendices were quite useful.	2000-12-15
2190175:US	52533596	RPI3F42818HT5	1841760919	771829810	Constantinople 1453: The end of Byzantium (Campaign)	Books	3	26	28	N	N	A Useful but Very Dry Summary of a Dramatic Battle	This is the kind of campaign summary one would expect from a British academic: long on scholarship and short on military insight or emotional drama.  To be sure, Nicolle has done a thorough job of researching all the sources on the fall of the Byzantine capital in 1453.  The excellent bibliography and the wonderful campaign maps are worth the price of this volume just for themselves.<br /> Although Nicolle does a fine job summarizing the origins of the campaign and the opposing commanders, his section on the opposing armies is not particularly informative.  He has spent many long hours gazing at suits of armor, ancient helmets and swords in museums and medieval paintings of these items, and this is what he wishes to convey to the reader.  He also barrages the reader with a lot of Ottoman military jargon, but he misses the point when it comes to describing their tactical methods.  He discusses a great deal about the Ottoman artillery, but little about the archers and other foot troops who fought the bulk of the battle.  A cross section diagram of one part of the wall of Constantinople would have been useful.  Also, some discussion of logistic and intelligence aspects of the siege would have been appropriate.<br /> Nicolle's summary of the campaign is succinct and professional but it lacks passion.  This was a close, hard fight for all the marbles in the eastern Mediterranean but this account lacks the desperate courage displayed by both sides in other, better written accounts.  The Siege of Constantinople is usually engrossing because the idea of an ancient culture fighting for its life against an overwhelming foe is enough in itself to rivet attention, but when the punch and counter-punch of this knock-down drag-out fight is added the battle becomes truly memorable.  Unfortunately, Nicolle's account skips along in an almost perfunctory manner and we are left with a description that seems to suggest that, &quot;they came, they saw, they conquered&quot;.	2000-12-02
2191436:US	52533596	R8YVZ8MYNQIGT	1855329999	746817780	The Rhineland 1945: The last killing ground in the West (Campaign)	Books	3	13	14	N	N	A Useful but Overly Generalized Summary	Ken Ford, an English book-seller and amateur historian, has attempted a difficult task: to summarize the Allied offensives to clear the German forces from the west bank of the Rhine River in February-March 1945 and to do this in only the 96 pages allowed by the Osprey Campaign Series format.  Although there are American and British official histories that cover this phase of the war in great detail, Ford has succeeded in supplementing the meager collection of one volume accounts of the battles in the Rhineland.  Unfortunately, much of the account is overly-generalized and wastes space on well-known facts instead of getting down into the weeds and telling this story as it should be told.<br /> The author gets off on the wrong foot in the initial sections on the origins of the battle, opposing commanders and opposing armies.  Ford begins with a three-page discussion of Eisenhower's well-known &quot;Broad Front&quot; strategy that adds very little to a discussion of the Rhineland campaign.  Worse, he focuses on very high level leaders like Eisenhower, Bradley, Model and ciphers like Simpson, Hodges and von Zangen.  Corps commanders and below, like Horrocks and Meindl get no background detail.  Most readers will be aware that Horrocks, as the commander of the British 30th Corps, failed to break through to the besieged British paratroopers at Arnhem in September 1944.  Finally, the four pages on opposing armies fails to convey the tactical methods, organization or strengths and weaknesses of either side and instead focuses on the army and army group level.  What the author failed to provide was any kind of background on the units that actually fought in the Rhineland battles.  Ford calls all German paratrooper units &quot;elite&quot; when in actuality, the two units facing the British were far from elite: the 6th Parachute Division was formed only eight months prior and had been smashed in Normandy and Holland, while the 8th Parachute Division had been in existence for only two months and had no combat experience.  Both units were in fact only regimental-size battle groups but Ford depicts them as full-size divisions on his maps.  Similarly, the 9th, 11th and 116th Panzer Divisions that Ford mentions were also really just battlegroups with 20-30 tanks each and 3-4,000 troops.  Furthermore, in a campaign where river-crossing and obstacle reduction was crucial, the failure to detail Allied engineer assets and capabilities was an enormous omission.<br /> The discussion of the British Operation &quot;Veritable&quot; and the American Operation &quot;Grenade&quot; are succinct but do succeed in linking these operations together.  Too often, accounts tend to &quot;de-link&quot; these battles because of nationalistic bias.  Ford to his credit, does not.  Both sections could have had greater detail however and it is difficult to get a feel for the desperate battles in the gloomy Reichswald Forrest here.  Finally, covers the final US 1st, 3rd and 7th Army drives to the Rhine River.  This should have concluded the campaign, but unfortunately Ford goes on to recount the subsequent Rhine-crossings and collapse of Germany; this was space that would have been better spent provided greater detail on the actual campaign rather than events outside its scope.<br /> Ford's volume does have a good order of battle for both sides, the battle maps are decent and most of the photographs are excellent.  The section on wargaming the campaign is quite good for an Osprey title and even mentions relevant board and computer games that cover the battle.  However, this volume does not offer either new information or a fresh perspective on the battle but rather, an overly generalized summary that lacks sufficient background detail.nly two months and had no combat experience.  Both units were in fact only regimental-size battle groups but Ford depicts them as full-size divisions on his maps.  Similarly, the 9th, 11th and 116th Panzer Divisions that Ford mentions were also really just battlegroups with 20-30 tanks each and 3-4,000 troops.  Furthermore, in a campaign where river-crossing and obstacle reduction was crucial, the failure to detail Allied engineer assets and capabilities was an enormous omission.  <br /> The discussion of the British Operation &quot;Veritable&quot; and the American Operation &quot;Grenade&quot; are succinct but do succeed in linking these operations together.  Too often, accounts tend to &quot;de-link&quot; these battles because of nationalistic bias.  Ford to his credit, does not.  Both sections could have had greater detail however and it is difficult to get a feel for the desperate battles in the gloomy Reichswald Forrest here.  Finally, covers the final US 1st, 3rd and 7th Army drives to the Rhine River.  This should have concluded the campaign, but unfortunately Ford goes on to recount the subsequent Rhine-crossings and collapse of Germany; this was space that would have been better spent provided greater detail on the actual campaign rather than events outside its scope.<br /> Ford's volume does have a good order of battle for both sides, the battle maps are decent and most of the photographs are excellent.  The section on wargaming the campaign is quite good for an Osprey title and even mentions relevant board and computer games that cover the battle.  However, this volume does not offer either new information or a fresh perspective on the battle but rather, an overly generalized summary that lacks sufficient background detail.	2000-12-01
2191503:US	52533596	R34D3V2HD1PM8W	0140146687	616918783	The Nuremberg Raid: 30-31 March 1944 (Penguin History)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	An Idiotic Sacrifice of Brave Men	This is probably Martin Middlebrook's best-written account of an RAF Bomber Command Operation in the Second World War.  Middlebrook wants the reader to believe that Air Marshal Harris, the commander of Bomber Command, was correcting in pursuing his night-time area bombing philosophy instead of trying to hit military or industrial targets with precision daylight strikes.  Throughout, Middlebrook's sympathies and admiration for the brave RAF bomber crewmen that he knew from his youth are clear.  Yet this book pushes a point of view that borders on religious or zealous faith, rather than a level-headed assessment of the facts.  What pushes Middlebrook over the edge of reason here is the nature of his subject.  While Middlebrook's other bomber books on Hamburg, Berlin and Peenemunde covered costly but successful operations (more or less), the raid on Nuremberg in March 1944 was an unmitigated disaster.  RAF bomber command suffered its heaviest losses in one night of the war and inflicted negligible damage on the enemy.<br /> Middlebrook begins with several very informative chapters that detail the bombing campaigns in Germany during 1939-1943, the composition of the bomber units that would take part in the raid and the German defenses.  As usual, Middlebrook is very thorough and the order of battle is very detailed.  However, shows a very profound bias toward area bombing throughout and it starts in assessing the three major raids just prior to the Nuremberg raid.  Middlebrook makes a very important point when he states that, &quot;even in non-cloud conditions the bombing results on Stuttgart, Frankfurt and Berlin had been poor ...bombing photographs indicated that not one aircraft released its load within the city's limits!&quot;  The point is that RAF Bomber Command did not have the capability to destroy cities because they couldn't hit them and that Air Marshal Harris knew this but continued on with an area bombing campaign that had degenerated into random killing.  Wars are won by killing the right people at the right moment, not by killing randomly.<br /> The pre-mission briefs to are covered in great detail and it appears that the intent was to deceive the crews about the nature of the mission, the strength of the enemy defenses and even the weather.  The night chosen for the attack was poorly suited for infiltrating a 700+ stream of bombers across Germany due to the illumination from the moon and lack of cloud cover, but Harris ignored these facts and the crews were filled with overly-optimistic estimates.  It is also significant that Harris chose an aim point in Nuremberg well away from the MAN tank plant (Middlebrook fails to mention that it was producing 100 Panther tanks per month at that time) and the SS barracks in the city and instead placed it in a residential area that he expected would burn well.  The crews were told that the target was the tank plant and SS barracks.<br /> Middlebrook follows the take-off of the massive bomber stream, all the supporting operations designed to help the raid and the massive German interception in great detail.  Although the front of the stream made it past the German defenses, the Germans had perfected the &quot;Tame Boar&quot; method of intercepting streams before they reached their target and ripped apart the center of the stream.  Visibility was excellent and the bombers were leaving contrails due to unusual conditions.  About eighty British bombers were lost in a ninety minute period.  The Germans had a very good night; Middlebrook notes that over thirty bombers were shot down by just eight night fighter crews.  Two German lieutenants shot down seven and six bombers in one sortie!  The flak gunners also had a good night - one battery shot down three bombers in five minutes with only twenty shells.  All the while, the British crews watched in horror in the moonlight as bomber after bomber went down in flames.  Nor were the British aware of the German &quot;schrage musik&quot; attacks from underneath with specially-modified cannon that fired into the bellies of the British bombers.  It was one of the great aerial slaughters of all time.  Nevertheless, the bravery of the British crews to press on to target in the mistaken belief that their actions would contribute to victory is sobering.<br /> Compounding the heavy losses, the raid itself was a total failure.  Nuremberg was heavily cloud-covered and most of the bombs fell well outside the city; only 60 German civilians were killed in the city, including 24 women and 8 children.  Even worse however, was that 107 bombers missed the target by 55 miles and bombed Schweinfurt by mistake (and only succeeded in killing one woman and one child).  A total of 110 German civilians and 19 Luftwaffe personnel were killed in the raid and about ten fighters were lost.  Contrast this with British losses of 108 aircraft (96 bombers were shot down, the rest were crashed or damaged beyond repair) and of the aircrew, 545 of these brave men were killed and 152 captured.  Middlebrook notes these cold-blooded facts but then concludes that the raid succeeded because it carried the war to the German people and &quot;it was the German civilians who cowered for their lives in cellars and shelters while the English slept safely in their beds&quot;.  Aside from this being an asinine &quot;aim for the RAF&quot;, it ignores the German V-weapons campaign that was pounding England in 1944 without risking aircrews.<br /> Finally, after all the excellent post-mortem analysis Middlebrook brings the reader to an emotionally biased watershed. Instead of realizing that the Nuremberg Raid clearly demonstrated that night area-bombing was not a cost-effective way to win a war, he launches into an impassioned defense of Harris' beloved area bombing.  Middlebrook writes, &quot;The morale of the German people never broke...but this does not mean that the theory was wrong: only that it had not been proved.  What might have happened if Harris had been given the 4,000 heavy bombers [that he wanted]?&quot;  This completely ignores the fact that RAF Bomber Command could barely find major cities in the dark, except for the few targets in the Ruhr within range of OBOE.  How would more bombers have changed this fact?  More bombers missing the target still does not add up to victory.  Even when RAF bombs hit cities, they tended to kill women, children and the elderly, not people likely to contribute much to Hitler's war effort.  Middlebrook's assertion that the bomber raids caused the Germans to allocate thousands of anti-aircraft guns, searchlights and flak crews to home defense is also specious.  First, anti-aircraft guns and searchlight cost a lot less to manufacture than four-engine bombers, and few of them were destroyed in battle unlike the 8,325 bombers the RAF lost.  Second, the flak crews were often teenagers, women and Russian volunteers, all of whom required far less training than RAF bomber crews.  Thirdly, Middlebrook ignores the huge investment that Britain had made into air defense of the UK and the fact that Britain did not have a free ride in this area even in 1944.  Actually, it is apparent that RAF Bomber Command diverted far more resources from Britain's war effort than it did from Germany's.<br /> This is a well-written and detailed account of one of the fiercer air battles of the Second World War.  It should be on the bookshelf of anyone seriously interested in the air war in 1939-1945.  However, the emotional bias of the author colors his assessment of the raid and serves to offer up a false conclusion. It is no disservice to the brave RAF crewmen who died on the raid, they did their best and they were heroes, but the raid was idiotic in intent and execution.  Commanders like Air Marshall Harris would send brave men to their deaths for no reasonable purpose should not be excused for &quot;having a bad day&quot; or making a mistake.  Unfortunately, the author cannot bring himself tothis condemnation and it is up to the reader to make a less biased conclusion.ened if Harris had been given the 4,000 heavy bombers [that he wanted]?&quot;  This completely ignores the fact that RAF Bomber Command could barely find major cities in the dark, except for the few targets in the Ruhr within range of OBOE.  How would more bombers have changed this fact?  More bombers missing the target still does not add up to victory.  Even when RAF bombs hit cities, they tended to kill women, children and the elderly, not people likely to contribute much to Hitler's war effort.  Middlebrook's assertion that the bomber raids caused the Germans to allocate thousands of anti-aircraft guns, searchlights and flak crews to home defense is also specious.  First, anti-aircraft guns and searchlight cost a lot less to manufacture than four-engine bombers, and few of them were destroyed in battle unlike the 8,325 bombers the RAF lost.  Second, the flak crews were often teenagers, women and Russian volunteers, all of whom required far less training than RAF bomber crews.  Thirdly, Middlebrook ignores the huge investment that Britain had made into air defense of the UK and the fact that Britain did not have a free ride in this area even in 1944.  Actually, it is apparent that RAF Bomber Command diverted far more resources from Britain's war effort than it did from Germany's.<br /> This is a well-written and detailed account of one of the fiercer air battles of the Second World War.  It should be on the bookshelf of anyone seriously interested in the air war in 1939-1945.  However, the emotional bias of the author colors his assessment of the raid and serves to offer up a false conclusion. It is no disservice to the brave RAF crewmen who died on the raid, they did their best and they were heroes, but the raid was idiotic in intent and execution.  Commanders like Air Marshall Harris would send brave men to their deaths for no reasonable purpose should not be excused for &quot;having a bad day&quot; or making a mistake.  Unfortunately, the author cannot bring himself to this condemnation and it is up to the reader to make a less biased conclusion.	2000-12-01
2191538:US	52533596	R1LFBY2BCNW19M	1841760935	570405241	Ticonderoga 1758: Montcalm’s victory against all odds (Campaign)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	An Excellent Account From the French Perspective	Ren&eacute; Chartrand, a senior curator with Canada's National Historic Sites, has written a ground-breaking account of the climatic British attack on Fort Ticonderoga (then called Carillon by the French) in July 1758.  Unlike most of the Osprey Campaign Series which merely summarize well-known battles, Chartrand has written a well-researched account that adds considerable detail, particularly from the French perspective.<br /> The standard recounting of the strategic situation leading to the campaign, the opposing plans and opposing leaders are succinct but adequate.  The section on the opposing armies is quite good, including a very detailed order of battle for both sides.  Perhaps the only slight here is in the lack of discussion of opposing tactical methods.<br /> Where this volume begins to add value to the study of this campaign is in the skirmish at Bernetz Brook on 6 July.  Most accounts focus on the untimely death of the British second-in-command, Brigadier General Howe, in this engagement and the effect his death had on the British army.  Chartrand goes much further and clearly shows how the British bumped into an errant French scouting detachment in the forrest below Ticonderoga and annihilated it.  Over 300 French troops were killed or captured.  Prior to this, Chartrand also shows how ineffective Montcalm's effort to block British progress up Lake George was; the British easily bypassed French patrols on the shoreline by unexpected water movements at night.  Instead the British were able to advance all the way up Lake George in two days and the French effort to delay or even monitor them was a failure.<br /> Chartrand also provides a good deal of information on how the British reconnaissance of the defenses of Ticonderoga failed.  Most accounts mention the perfunctory survey by the young engineer Lieutenant Clerk, but they fail to mention the probe by Lieutenant Colonel Bradsheet and another engineer officer.  Chartrand points out that Clerk was deceived by the effective camouflage of the French defensive line while Bradsheet mistakenly reported the French picket line as the main line of resistance.  British overconfidence bred the false assumption that the French defense was fragile and that a hasty frontal assault would succeed.<br /> However the British frontal assault was a costly disaster; in six hours the British suffered about 2,500 casualties in a series of disjointed attacks.  Again, most accounts tend to blame the French use of abatis or fallen trees as an obstacle as the main cause of the failure.  Chartrand clearly shows how the impetuousness of one of the British brigade commanders who began an unauthorized unsupported attack led to a chain reaction of other British units joining the fray.  One unit after another attacked, and was smashed in the French killing field below their defenses.  British reconnaissance and security in the battle was abysmal despite the presence of Roger's Rangers; French militia harassed their flanks in the woods and the British never realized how weak the French right flank was.  Chartrand also provides useful information on French casualties, it is interesting that the French suffered 106 men killed even though they were well dug-in and few British troops came close to their lines.  The role of American colonial units in the battle is also well-covered.<br /> Contrast this 94-page volume with the over-rated 800+ page Crucible of War by Fred Anderson.  In that book, the Battle of Ticonderoga merited only eight pages and Anderson omitted key details of the battle while almost completely ignoring the French side. If you are interested in one of the more interesting battles of the French and Indian War, this volume is a golden nugget of useful and often overlooked information.d by the effective camouflage of the French defensive line while Bradsheet mistakenly reported the French picket line as the main line of resistance.  British overconfidence bred the false assumption that the French defense was fragile and that a hasty frontal assault would succeed.<br /> However the British frontal assault was a costly disaster; in six hours the British suffered about 2,500 casualties in a series of disjointed attacks.  Again, most accounts tend to blame the French use of abatis or fallen trees as an obstacle as the main cause of the failure.  Chartrand clearly shows how the impetuousness of one of the British brigade commanders who began an unauthorized unsupported attack led to a chain reaction of other British units joining the fray.  One unit after another attacked, and was smashed in the French killing field below their defenses.  British reconnaissance and security in the battle was abysmal despite the presence of Roger's Rangers; French militia harassed their flanks in the woods and the British never realized how weak the French right flank was.  Chartrand also provides useful information on French casualties, it is interesting that the French suffered 106 men killed even though they were well dug-in and few British troops came close to their lines.  The role of American colonial units in the battle is also well-covered.<br /> Contrast this 94-page volume with the over-rated 800+ page Crucible of War by Fred Anderson.  In that book, the Battle of Ticonderoga merited only eight pages and Anderson omitted key details of the battle while almost completely ignoring the French side. If you are interested in one of the more interesting battles of the French and Indian War, this volume is a golden nugget of useful and often overlooked information.	2000-12-01
2215277:US	52533596	R2CLMPP4W108Z7	0304352802	646580405	The Desert Generals (Cassell Military Paperbacks)	Books	4	31	34	N	Y	Bashing the Montgomery Myth	This work is a study of military leadership under stress, not a detailed blow-by-blow campaign history.  The setting is the Libyan and Egyptian deserts, between June 1940 and January 1943. The perspective is thoroughly British and the fluctuating tide of British military fortunes is depicted by a detailed examination of the five key commanders in this period.  Originally written in 1960, this work was revised in 1981 to incorporate the later information on the role of Enigma.  Although Barnett's main contention - that General Montgomery's accomplishments were more mythical than factual - is not addressed until the last chapters, it is the primary intent of the author to debunk this myth.<br />  The first chapters deal with the opening of the desert war and the initial victories of Field Marshal Wavell and General O'Connor over the Italians.  Beda Fomm was O'Connor's brilliant victory, but today it is overshadowed by Rommel's battles.  Despite the extent of these victories, the victors were soon forgotten: O'Connor was captured in the initial attack of the German Afrika Korps and Wavell was relieved by Churchill.  Although this was an interesting phase of the war for the British, these chapters lack the dynamic quality that the rest of the book has.<br />  General Sir Alan Cunningham, a hero of the campaign in Ethiopia, was sent to replace O'Connor.  He was the first British general to face Rommel on even terms, but he lasted in command for only three months.  When Cunningham took command, the British were still reeling from Rommel's first offensive and desperately attempting to raise the siege of Tobruk.  Cunningham presided over the premature Operation &quot;Crusader&quot; to relieve Tobruk, constantly goaded by Churchill to strike at once.  Barnett's portrait of Cunningham is interesting in two respects. First, as a successful colonial soldier suddenly thrust into command of a large mechanized army, Cunningham fumbled Operation Crusader (although more for non-technical reasons, like failure to achieve mass at the decisive point or maintain unity of effort).  Cunningham was able to recover and muddle through to a victory of sorts, but suffered a loss of confidence that was fatal to his continued command.  This is Barnett's second interesting point, on the strain of battle command upon the commander.  Ostensibly, Cunningham was relieved due to &quot;battle fatigue&quot; but the erosion of his command authority and confidence was closer to the truth.<br />  General Auchinleck, the British Commander-in-Chief in the Mideast, then made a disastrous choice in selecting General Ritchie to temporarily command the 8th Army.  Although Operation Crusader had forced Rommel to abandon the siege of Tobruk and pull back, Ritchie took over command as the Germans swept back up to the Gazala line outside Tobruk.  Ritchie was well-connected politically and he possessed a soldierly image but unfortunately, his professional abilities were modest.  Ritchie was unimaginative and indecisive - fatal attributes when faced by an adversary like Rommel - and his static defense and piece-meal use of armor resulted in the 8th Army's greatest defeat.  After Tobruk was lost and Rommel pushed into Egypt, Auchinleck decided to relieve Ritchie and take over command of the 8th Army himself.<br /> Barnett's portrait of Auchinleck and his chief-of-staff Dorman-Smith is intended to vindicate these men as the true saviors of Egypt and British military fortunes in Africa.  The case is persuasive.  Although only in command for a few months, Auchinleck stopped Rommel at the First Battle of El Alamein and began the process of re-organizing the 8th Army into a more effective force.  Dorman-Smith was a military intellectual,  and he accurately predicted Rommel's likely course of action and advised Auchinleck on British dispositions.  Unfortunately, Churchill visited Egypt right after 1st Alamein and Auchinleck and Dorman-Smith were relieved.  The reasons are ambiguous, but the purge was due to political and personal reasons much more than military factors.  The benefactor was General Montgomery, who became the new commander of 8th Army.<br />Barnett's portrait of Montgomery is even more unflattering than most American portrayals of this controversial general.  I was unaware, for example, that while at Sandhurst Montgomery has set another cadet on fire as part of a hazing incident (and even recounted it in his memoirs).  Montgomery took command when the British were finally receiving massive reinforcements in Egypt and Rommel's forces were at their weakest.  Engima decryption also gave Montgomery valuable insight into the enemy's strength and weaknesses.  Nevertheless, Montgomery's set-piece Second Battle of El Alamein was nearly a failure.  The breakthrough battle was a muddle that nearly foundered on Rommel's minefields and anti-tank barriers.  When German supply difficulties finally helped to turn the battle his way, Montgomery clearly fumbled the pursuit and allowed the Afrika Korps to escape.  However, Barnett cites the creation of the Montgomery Myth - that his battles all went according to plan and that he was invincible - as necessary to restoring bruised British military prestige.  In these pages, Montgomery is clearly labeled as a vainglorious liar of limited military capabilities, but with a keen eye for public relations.<br />This book is an excellent study of command.  For these readers who believe that Hitler interfered with the German war effort, this book is valuable for showing how Churchill also interfered. Churchill's Greek adventure in 1941 weakened the British in North Africa at a critical moment, as well as his diversion of forces to the Far East in December 1941.  Likewise, Churchill's insistence on holding indefensible Tobruk in 1942 led to a great British disaster.  Furthermore, Churchill was constantly badgering his commanders to attack which reduced the amount of time they had to learn their commands and build up their forces.<br />  There are only two areas I can fault in this book.  First, the sketch maps are absolutely awful.  The reader will need to find other campaign maps to support the text because these are crude in the extreme.  The second area is on the strategic impact of the war in the desert.  Several times, Barnett makes the assertion that the war could have been lost if the Germans had broken through at El Alamein.  Of course, Barnett is British and the British would like to have everyone believe that the British Army won the Second World War (or at least prevented it from being lost).  Barnett also parades &quot;what if&quot; fantasies about German troops reaching the Persian Gulf in a month or even going on to India.  This is nonsense, even without hindsight.  Rommel's logistics were stretched to the breaking point getting to El Alamein but Barnett makes it sound like going an extra 1,500 miles would be easy.  The book lacks balance in placing the Desert War in its proper historical perspective: it was a sideshow for the Germans and a valuable training ground for the British, but the war was decided elsewhere.  Loss of Cairo did not equate to loss of the war.  Barnett might have done well to remember that Napoleon's conquest of Egypt under similar circumstances (British naval superiority) did not produce any great strategic result for him.  It is hard to see how Rommel's handful of troops and tanks could have done much beyond taking Cairo and even harder to see how holding Cairo would have saved Hitler's empire.e ambiguous, but the purge was due to political and personal reasons much more than military factors.  The benefactor was General Montgomery, who became the new commander of 8th Army.<br />Barnett's portrait of Montgomery is even more unflattering than most American portrayals of this controversial general.  I was unaware, for example, that while at Sandhurst Montgomery has set another cadet on fire as part of a hazing incident (and even recounted it in his memoirs).  Montgomery took command when the British were finally receiving massive reinforcements in Egypt and Rommel's forces were at their weakest.  Engima decryption also gave Montgomery valuable insight into the enemy's strength and weaknesses.  Nevertheless, Montgomery's set-piece Second Battle of El Alamein was nearly a failure.  The breakthrough battle was a muddle that nearly foundered on Rommel's minefields and anti-tank barriers.  When German supply difficulties finally helped to turn the battle his way, Montgomery clearly fumbled the pursuit and allowed the Afrika Korps to escape.  However, Barnett cites the creation of the Montgomery Myth - that his battles all went according to plan and that he was invincible - as necessary to restoring bruised British military prestige.  In these pages, Montgomery is clearly labeled as a vainglorious liar of limited military capabilities, but with a keen eye for public relations.<br />This book is an excellent study of command.  For these readers who believe that Hitler interfered with the German war effort, this book is valuable for showing how Churchill also interfered. Churchill's Greek adventure in 1941 weakened the British in North Africa at a critical moment, as well as his diversion of forces to the Far East in December 1941.  Likewise, Churchill's insistence on holding indefensible Tobruk in 1942 led to a great British disaster.  Furthermore, Churchill was constantly badgering his commanders to attack which reduced the amount of time they had to learn theircommands and build up their forces.  <br />     There are only two areas I can fault in this book.  First, the sketch maps are absolutely awful.  The reader will need to find other campaign maps to support the text because these are crude in the extreme.  The second area is on the strategic impact of the war in the desert.  Several times, Barnett makes the assertion that the war could have been lost if the Germans had broken through at El Alamein.  Of course, Barnett is British and the British would like to have everyone believe that the British Army won the Second World War (or at least prevented it from being lost).  Barnett also parades &quot;what if&quot; fantasies about German troops reaching the Persian Gulf in a month or even going on to India.  This is nonsense, even without hindsight.  Rommel's logistics were stretched to the breaking point getting to El Alamein but Barnett makes it sound like going an extra 1,500 miles would be easy.  The book lacks balance in placing the Desert War in its proper historical perspective: it was a sideshow for the Germans and a valuable training ground for the British, but the war was decided elsewhere.  Loss of Cairo did not equate to loss of the war.  Barnett might have done well to remember that Napoleon's conquest of Egypt under similar circumstances (British naval superiority) did not produce any great strategic result for him.  It is hard to see how Rommel's handful of troops and tanks could have done much beyond taking Cairo and even harder to see how holding Cairo would have saved Hitler's empire.	2000-11-10
2217074:US	52533596	R36LUG3TAMBG1N	0898390613	637807828	Freely I Served (Airborne Ser. : No. 15)	Books	2	8	12	N	Y	A Poorly Written War Memoir	This is the Second World War memoir of Major General Stanislaw Sosabowski (1892-1967), commander of the Polish airborne brigade that was dropped near Arnhem in September 1944.  Some readers may recall that the actor Gene Hackman in the film A Bridge Too Far portrayed MGN Sosabowski.  As war memoirs go, Freely I Served is unfortunately not toward the top of the deck. It is quickly apparent that MGN Sosabowski either did not have access to the relevant wartime records and diaries or chose not to use such resources to refresh his memory.  The result is a very generalized account of his wartime experiences, and there are no startling insights into the failed Market-Garden operation here.<br /> Sosabowski starts his memoir with a brief chapter on his early years in which he recounts how he served in the Austro-Hungarian army in the First World War.  Although he notes that he was drafted in 1914, fought in a number of actions and finished the war as a Second Lieutenant, there is very little detail here.  While he states that he helped to form the new Polish army in 1918, he gives no information on what role he played in the critical Russo-Polish War of 1919-1920.  Was he a staff officer or a unit commander?  Unknown.  Nor does Sosabowski tell the reader much of anything about the period 1920-1939, other than to say he was an instructor at the military academy for a period of years.<br /> The best chapter in the book covers the German Blitzkrieg in Poland in 1939.  When the invasion started, Sosabowski was commander of the 21st Infantry Regiment in the 8th Division, located north of Warsaw.  Although Sosabowski's regiment repulsed one initial German attack, his division fell apart and he was forced to withdraw into the Warsaw perimeter.  When Warsaw surrendered, Sosabowski marched into captivity with his troops but soon escaped occupied Poland.  Sosabowski was in France for six months, as deputy commander of the 4th Polish Division, but fled to England with his troops when Paris was overrun.  The middle part of the book covers the formation of these remnants into the 1st Polish Parachute Brigade and the final part covers the unit's employment in Operation Market-Garden.<br /> Sosabowski is not the most sympathetic character due to an unfortunate tendency to ignore the achievements of others.  He claims that when he arrived in France in December 1939 that he was the &quot;first senior officer to come straight out of occupied Poland..&quot;, which ignores the fact that Colonel Stanislaw Maczek had arrived in France in October 1939.  Maczek had also commanded a brigade in the Polish campaign, and unlike Sosabowski, he commanded a Polish brigade in the French campaign as well.  Maczek went on to command the only other major Polish ground unit stationed in the United Kingdom, the 1st Armored Division, but he is never mentioned in this account.  According to Sosabowski, many of the other Polish officers in the West were overweight, overage cronies who had missed the fight in the homeland.  This is a tremendous slight to his 100,000 countrymen who escaped Poland to continue the war against the Nazis.  As a matter of fact, Sosabowski only mentions the names of a few of his subordinates. Although he twice tells us the name of his English landlady, he only tells the reader the name of one of this three battalion commanders and one or two other company-grade officers.<br /> There is very little real detail in this account.  I had to check Martin Middlebrook's excellent Arnhem: The Airborne Battle to ascertain the Polish brigade's composition at Arnhem.  Sosabowski tells the reader a great deal about how the colors for the unit were covertly made in Poland and smuggled out to England, but he does not even tell the reader that 1,689 Polish paratroopers went into Holland and 203 were killed or captured (12% casualties).  Although this was the highlight of his career, the author spends only 40 fairly uninformative pages on the Arnhem battle.  The book ends when Sosabowski was relieved two months later due to friction with his British commanders; there is no mention of what happened to the brigade or its men after he left or even what he did for the next 23 years.<br /> One would expect a great deal of recrimination here by Sosabowski about the poor planning of Market-Garden or the poor manner in which he was treated by the British command, but there is little of that here.  He must have mellowed out by the time he wrote this over fifteen years later.  Indeed, it is surprising to see the author support the notion that Field Marshal Montgomery's &quot;single thrust&quot; strategy into Germany was superior to Eisenhower's &quot;broad front&quot; strategy.  Evidently, logistics was not Sosabowski's strong point.  In the end, he blames the intelligence community and the air planners for the majority of the Arnhem  disaster.  The reader does have to sympathize with Sosabowski about the piece-meal and disastrous manner in which his brigade was committed into its one and only action, but the author does little commiseration.  In short, this account adds no new insights into the Battle of Arnhem.book ends when Sosabowski was relieved two months later due to friction with his British commanders; there is no mention of what happened to the brigade or its men after he left or even what he did for the next 23 years.<br /> One would expect a great deal of recrimination here by Sosabowski about the poor planning of Market-Garden or the poor manner in which he was treated by the British command, but there is little of that here.  He must have mellowed out by the time he wrote this over fifteen years later.  Indeed, it is surprising to see the author support the notion that Field Marshal Montgomery's &quot;single thrust&quot; strategy into Germany was superior to Eisenhower's &quot;broad front&quot; strategy.  Evidently, logistics was not Sosabowski's strong point.  In the end, he blames the intelligence community and the air planners for the majority of the Arnhem  disaster.  The reader does have to sympathize with Sosabowski about the piece-meal and disastrous manner in which his brigade was committed into its one and only action, but the author does little commiseration.  In short, this account adds no new insights into the Battle of Arnhem.	2000-11-08
2219328:US	52533596	RE0KDUW27N5RY	0304353477	548564799	Cassell Military Classics: The Berlin Raids: RAF Bomber Command Winter 1943-44	Books	3	15	18	N	Y	The Decimation of RAF Bomber Command	In this book, covering the nineteen Royal Air Force (RAF) raids over Berlin between August 1943 and March 1944, Martin Middlebrook deviates from his standard formula for chronicling military history.  Normally, Middlebrook takes a crucial day or at most a few days of a major battle and uses this to showcase the battle as a whole.  Middlebrook typically interlaces expert historical analysis with hard-hitting eyewitness accounts.  Unfortunately, this well-proven formula is lacking in The Berlin Raids.  The time period covers seven months of an attritional battle that had few highpoints and there are many less eyewitness accounts than in other Middlebrook accounts.  As storytelling, this one is much less dynamic than either the Schweinfurt-Regensburg Raids or the Battle of Hamburg.<br /> As history, this book also leaves much to be desired.  Air Marshall Sir Arthur Harris' decision to &quot;wreck Berlin from end to end&quot; and thus end the war was a controversial claim in 1943 as well as from hindsight.  Harris, being a true bomber fanatic who believed that airpower alone could smash German will to resist, was allowed to fight his own personal war for seven months (Churchill ran interference for Harris, while the Americans were demanding that the RAF hit more militarily significant targets).  Attritional battles are controversial by their very nature because they accept heavy friendly casualties as the cost of doing business.  Yet while Harris' actions should provide ample fodder for controversy, there is little in this account.  Another historical omission of this account is that the American bomber units in the 8th Air Force are barely mentioned here, despite the fact that they were undertaking missions that had impact on German and British decision-making.<br /> Each raid is covered in 6-10 pages with a sketch map showing the route in and out, but not the aim points or areas bombed.  It quickly becomes apparent in Middlebrook's account that RAF bomber command had a hard time finding Berlin, never mind hitting aim points in the city.  Most of the raids missed the aim points by five miles or more and many of the bombs fell in open countryside.  A number of the raids were disrupted by bad weather and the German night fighter defenses were just recovering from the British introduction of &quot;Window&quot;.  Instead of destroying Berlin, RAF Bomber Command came closer to destroying itself.  In the course of these nineteen raids, a total of 643 bombers were lost and 3,686 aircrew men killed.  German losses were about 10,300 civilian deaths and fewer than 100 night fighters.<br /> Although Middlebrook is a devotee of British night bombing tactics and never fails to criticize American daylight bombing methods, I found myself sickened by the blind stupidity of British tactics in the Battle of Berlin.  To begin with, the British Lancaster bomber was a virtual death-trap if hit; Middlebrook notes the average was only 1 out of 7 crewmen successfully bailing out of stricken aircraft.  And the Germans shot them down with great ease.  One expert night fighter pilot shot down six Lancasters in one sortie and another pilot shot down three.  By 1944 the night no longer provided adequate cover to the British bomber streams.  Air Marshal Harris pushed Bomber Command to keep mounting raids: experienced crews were kept in the fight too long and losses mounted due to fatigue while inexperienced crews were thrown into the fight without adequate training.  While British bombs were mostly killing elderly Germans and women and children - all people who were making little if any contribution to Hitler's war effort - Harris was sacrificing the cream of Bomber Command.  The elite Pathfinder Force lost 784 men in the Berlin campaign and lost much of its proficiency; without qualified Pathfinders Bomber Command couldn't hit the broadside of a barn.  It is even more sickening when one realizes how little the British were accomplishing: three of the raids killed less than 100 Germans each and most of the raids were inflicting little real damage on the city.  Furthermore, the RAF failed to realize that the Luftwaffe had developed new tactics (Tame Boar) and equipment (SN-2 radar, upward-firing 20mm cannons) that made the German night defenses more effective than ever before.  By the end of the battle, RAF morale was affected and many crews were aborting or dropping their bombs short of the target.<br /> The book does have a few poignant items.  The pity of war is reflected in the plight of bombed-out civilians.  After one raid, an eyewitness describes, &quot;an old blind man who sat in the middle of the street, on a chair among the belongings they had saved, while his home burned down.&quot;  The randomness of war is reflected in another incident.  Although few German flak gunners were killed, one unlucky gunner was killed when, &quot;an incendiary bomb fell right on top of his steel helmet that scattered his brains.&quot;<br /> In the end, Harris stopped the bombing campaign once the Normandy invasion was drawing near and he was ordered to switch to more tactical targets.  In one last political act before he had to switch missions, Harris decided to bomb Nurnberg - the political hotbed of Nazism - on 30 March 1944.  Despite adverse weather conditions and tough Luftwaffe defenses, Harris ordered the raid and the result was disaster.  RAF bomber command suffered its heaviest loss in a single raid, 95 bombers were lost and few bombs hit the city.  To this idiotic finale of RAF anti-city raids, Middlebrook only makes the lame observation that Harris ignored these disasters in his memoirs.  The truth is that Harris was wrong and he should have been relieved.  The truth is that Harris' campaign to smash Berlin virtually destroyed his own Bomber Command but he was either too stupid or arrogant to acknowledge his errors.  The truth is that British night-bombing tactics were a failure and a waste of human lives on both sides. If Britain had only used Bomber Command in support of more realistic objectives, like attacking German war industries in daylight or tactical targets, then the sacrifices might have been justified.  Instead, RAF Bomber Command was defeated in the skies over Berlin attempting to prove the unfounded theory that airpower could win wars by slaughtering helpless civilians.  It did not work for the Luftwaffe over London in 1940-1 and it did not work for the RAF over Berlin in 1943-4.aids killed less than 100 Germans each and most of the raids were inflicting little real damage on the city.  Furthermore, the RAF failed to realize that the Luftwaffe had developed new tactics (Tame Boar) and equipment (SN-2 radar, upward-firing 20mm cannons) that made the German night defenses more effective than ever before.  By the end of the battle, RAF morale was affected and many crews were aborting or dropping their bombs short of the target.  <br /> The book does have a few poignant items.  The pity of war is reflected in the plight of bombed-out civilians.  After one raid, an eyewitness describes, &quot;an old blind man who sat in the middle of the street, on a chair among the belongings they had saved, while his home burned down.&quot;  The randomness of war is reflected in another incident.  Although few German flak gunners were killed, one unlucky gunner was killed when, &quot;an incendiary bomb fell right on top of his steel helmet that scattered his brains.&quot;  <br /> In the end, Harris stopped the bombing campaign once the Normandy invasion was drawing near and he was ordered to switch to more tactical targets.  In one last political act before he had to switch missions, Harris decided to bomb Nurnberg - the political hotbed of Nazism - on 30 March 1944.  Despite adverse weather conditions and tough Luftwaffe defenses, Harris ordered the raid and the result was disaster.  RAF bomber command suffered its heaviest loss in a single raid, 95 bombers were lost and few bombs hit the city.  To this idiotic finale of RAF anti-city raids, Middlebrook only makes the lame observation that Harris ignored these disasters in his memoirs.  The truth is that Harris was wrong and he should have been relieved.  The truth is that Harris' campaign to smash Berlin virtually destroyed his own Bomber Command but he was either too stupid or arrogant to acknowledge his errors.  The truth is that British night-bombing tactics were a failure and a waste of human lives on both sides. If Britain had only used Bomber Command in support of more realistic objectives, like attacking German war industries in daylight or tactical targets, then the sacrifices might have been justified.  Instead, RAF Bomber Command was defeated in the skies over Berlin attempting to prove the unfounded theory that airpower could win wars by slaughtering helpless civilians.  It did not work for the Luftwaffe over London in 1940-1 and it did not work for the RAF over Berlin in 1943-4.	2000-11-06
2239895:US	52533596	R2A8L3FHIZLPHG	1841760897	565916418	Lorraine 1944 : Patton Vs Manteuffel (Campaign Series, 75)	Books	4	39	44	N	Y	A Good Campaign Summary	Steven J. Zaloga, the renowned expert on armored vehicles, has delivered a solid campaign synopsis of the battles fought in Lorraine between 5-29 September 1944.  The campaign pitted General Patton's pursuing 3rd Army against the hastily-raised 5th Panzer Army under General Manteuffel and elements of the 1st Army.  This campaign has received considerable attention in other far lengthier works, so this volume does not claim to break any new ground.  However, it does offer a balanced account which covers all the key events and offers perspectives from both the American and German points of view.<br />  As in all the Osprey Campaign series, the volume starts with a section on the opposing strategic plans.  In assessing Allied strategy, Zaloga conforms to conventional wisdom in suggesting that if only Patton's 3rd Army in Lorraine had been accorded logistical priority in September 1944, then perhaps the year might have ended very differently.  This is actually the voice of Patton glorifiers/Montgomery bashers.  This conveniently ignores the logistic bottlenecks back at the beaches: even if Eisenhower had given Patton the bulk of available supplies, the Redball Express could not have supplied Patton very much further east at that time.  The Allied armies were consuming vast quantities of fuel in their pursuit across France and they needed a deep-water port like Antwerp in September 1944 far more than a tenuous foothold across the Rhine.  Finally, does anyone seriously believe that Patton's 3rd Army - which only had 8-10 divisions at the time - could have mounted a serious invasion of Germany with minimal support from the other Allied armies?  Zaloga ignores the vast manpower and material resources that were still available to Hitler in September 1944.  Despite widespread condemnation by many armchair strategists, Eisenhower's &quot;Broad Front&quot; strategy was the best course of action under the circumstances.<br /> The section on commanders is a bit odd because the majority of the space is devoted to well-known higher-level commanders, including Hitler, Model, Bradley and Patton.  The corps and below leaders who actually fought the battle are barely mentioned - the two US corps commanders receive one sentence each.  Major General Wood, commander of the exemplary US 4th Armored Division, is barely mentioned anywhere in the text.  Given the local nature of the armored battles in Lorraine, it is probably inappropriate to describe this series of actions as &quot;Patton versus Manteuffel&quot;.  These were battalion and brigade-level fights.<br /> As expected from a technical expert, the sections on the opposing armies are quite good.  In particular, Zaloga makes very good points about the US edge in battlefield communications.  However, one major item lacking here is a discussion of tactical organizations: what did German armor battalions look like in comparison to their US counterparts, particularly in terms of scouting assets, support weapons and maintenance capability?  As a former armor officer, I can attest that maintenance capability is much more critical in sustaining armored combat than is often appreciated.  Unfortunately, Zaloga leaves this vital area blank and instead tells us that the Germans committed about 616 tanks and assault guns against 1,280 US tanks and tank destroyers.<br /> The sections covering the actual campaign are quite good, starting with the destruction of the 106th Panzer Brigade on 8 September 1944 and progressing up to the final battles around Arracourt on 25-29 September.  While the 3-D maps are quite good, the standard 2-D maps leave much to be desired since key phases of the battle are not depicted.  There is no map depicting the German offensive that led up to the Arracourt battles, so it is difficult to determine how the Germans coordinated all their units.  This tends to make it look like the panzer brigades were committed with support from other units.<br /> The section on wargaming the battleis ridiculous as it usually is in Osprey books.  With the availability of superb computer simulations of the Arracourt battles such as Talonsoft's WEST FRONT and OPERATIONAL ART OF WAR (which are never mentioned in this section on war gaming), it is absolutely ludicrous to read a discussion of a &quot;war game&quot; where the players &quot;wear personal stereos, playing deafening music to recreate the effect of motor noise within the crew compartment.  Players could also wear cardboard spectacles, with narrow slits to simulate the view through a periscope or vision port...&quot; and so on.  Please stop.  Given the existence of Avalon Hill's SQUAD LEADER series and the Talonsoft products, which adequately cover the Arracourt battles, this section is a gross insult to serious wargamers.<br /> Nevertheless, Zaloga's book is a useful campaign summary to keep on the bookshelf.  Certainly the organization of the material is more interesting than the actual subject, for this overly-covered campaign was certainly not one of the epic struggles of the Second World War.  The US 3rd Army was winded after a long pursuit and at the absolute limit of their logistical chain.  Although beaten in Normandy, the Germans were starting to regroup but the Lorraine campaign offers one of the very few times in the Second World War that they fought poorly on the offense.  Most of all, the strategic stakes were low in Lorraine.  If the Germans won, they might have hurt 3rd Army a bit but they would probably only have bought themselves a few weeks respite.  On the other hand, the US achieved a tactical victory but so what - the campaign still ended in stalemate for logistic reasons and the weather.  This is a key factor ignored by Zaloga and most other writers on the Lorraine campaign: yes, the 3rd Army defeated the German spoiling attacks but how did this translate into a strategic success?  The fact is that the strategic circumstances of September 1944 prohibited 3rd Army from inflicting a decisive defeat on the Whermacht, no matter how much tactical skill they demonstrated on the battlefield.battle is ridiculous as it usually is in Osprey books.  With the availability of superb computer simulations of the Arracourt battles such as Talonsoft's WEST FRONT and OPERATIONAL ART OF WAR (which are never mentioned in this section on war gaming), it is absolutely ludicrous to read a discussion of a &quot;war game&quot; where the players &quot;wear personal stereos, playing deafening music to recreate the effect of motor noise within the crew compartment.  Players could also wear cardboard spectacles, with narrow slits to simulate the view through a periscope or vision port...&quot; and so on.  Please stop.  Given the existence of Avalon Hill's SQUAD LEADER series and the Talonsoft products, which adequately cover the Arracourt battles, this section is a gross insult to serious wargamers.   <br /> Nevertheless, Zaloga's book is a useful campaign summary to keep on the bookshelf.  Certainly the organization of the material is more interesting than the actual subject, for this overly-covered campaign was certainly not one of the epic struggles of the Second World War.  The US 3rd Army was winded after a long pursuit and at the absolute limit of their logistical chain.  Although beaten in Normandy, the Germans were starting to regroup but the Lorraine campaign offers one of the very few times in the Second World War that they fought poorly on the offense.  Most of all, the strategic stakes were low in Lorraine.  If the Germans won, they might have hurt 3rd Army a bit but they would probably only have bought themselves a few weeks respite.  On the other hand, the US achieved a tactical victory but so what - the campaign still ended in stalemate for logistic reasons and the weather.  This is a key factor ignored by Zaloga and most other writers on the Lorraine campaign: yes, the 3rd Army defeated the German spoiling attacks but how did this translate into a strategic success?  The fact is that the strategic circumstances of September 1944 prohibited 3rd Army from inflicting a decisive defeat on the Whermacht, no matter how much tactical skill they demonstrated on the battlefield.	2000-10-19
2259436:US	52533596	R3VN4YU3V8Z83N	0684167271	437099514	Battle of Hamburg: Allied Bomber Forces Against a German City in 1943	Books	5	2	3	N	N	In Praise of Area Bombing	Martin Middlebrook does his usual thorough research job, which includes excellent Order of Battle information, planning and operational details.  Excellent diagrams for each raid shows where each aircraft was downed and where bombs were dropped.  This is the story of four RAF and two USAF bomber raids on Hamburg between 25 July-3August 1943, in the first example of &quot;round the clock bombing&quot;.  This is also a useful case study to examine the British concept of night area bombing versus American daylight precision bombing.  A total of 100 British aircraft were lost, as well as 552 airmen killed and 65 captured.  The USAF lost 17 bombers in Hamburg raids, with 46 killed and 114 captured.  The RAF dropped about 8,300 tons of bombs on Hamburg, the Americans about 300 tons.<br />  These raids were unique in several respects. The first British raid used &quot;Window&quot; to successfully disrupt the German night-fighter defense.  The second British raid created a firestorm that killed over 40,000 civilians in Hamburg. The two American raids were hampered by cloud cover and inflicted only minor damage on the U-Boat construction yards in the city.  The Luftwaffe lost more than 13 aircraft defending the city and the defenses improved considerably in the course of just one week.  Although the raids failed to disrupt U-Boat construction or erode German morale, Middlebrook feels that the raids did help to &quot;grind&quot; Germany down and force them to devote more resources to the defense of their cities.  I find that Middlebrook's claims for the RAF bombing campaign somewhat exaggerated; they rarely bombed within 3 miles of their target and their bombers were shot down fairly easily (with few survivors).<br />  There is a tremendous amount of detail in this volume which makes it well worth reading, even if aviation history is not one's primary interest.  The full, ugly face of aerial bombing is also revealed, probably in more stark contrast than other works, since Middlebrook spends as much time describing civilians faced with firestorms as bomber crews going down.  At the end, Middlebrook asks whether area bombing - specifically targetting civilian housing - was justified. His answer, that it was consistent with the mores and circumstances of the Second World War are somewhat questionable.e Middlebrook spends as much time describing civilians faced with firestorms as bomber crews going down.  At the end, Middlebrook asks whether area bombing - specifically targetting civilian housing - was justified. His answer, that it was consistent with the mores and circumstances of the Second World War are somewhat questionable.	2000-10-04
2259932:US	52533596	R11561LGRTZUHB	0140066780	723131221	The Schweinfurt-Regensburg Mission: American Raids on 17 August 1943	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Dream of Precision Bombing Fades	Another great Martin Middlebrook effort, this time focusing solely on the American deep penetration raids of 17 August 1943. These raids surprised the Germans - they were not expecting deep daylight raids into Bavaria by the USAF.  However bad weather, some dumb decisions and bad luck hurt the bold American effort.<br />  The Regensburg raid led by COL Curtis Lemay did fairly well, inflicting 8-10 weeks damage on the Me-109 factories there, at the cost of 14 B-17s lost.  However the Schweinfurt mission went from bad to worse, losing 24 B-17s before arriving at the target, and then missing the ball bearing factories.  On the way out, the Americans got clobbered even worse.  A total of 60 B-17s were shot down and 11 more were damaged beyond repair; aircrew losses were 102 killed, 381 captured and 20 interned.  The Luftwaffe lost 47 fighters and MAJOR &quot;Wutz&quot; Galland, an experten.<br />  Middlebrook uses these raids to assert that the dream of unescorted daylight bombing was shattered by this and costly follow-up raids, and that the USAF should have considered switching to night area bombing.  For once, I find Middlebrook all wet here.  Forgetting the 71 lost B-17s (to Americans, material in war is expendable), the death of 102 American aircrew seem justified for reducing German fighter production for two months.  The comparable British Hamburg raids lost 87 bombers over Hamburg, with 552 KIA and 65 POW, merely to slaughter 44,000 civilians.  The American losses disrupted bomber units but the actual deaths of both American crewmen and German civilians were small and the industrial damage - while certainly not catastrophic - did more for the war effort than the RAF efforts. Furthermore, Middlebrook ignores the fact that fighting the daylight raids was very costly for the Luftwaffe; 47 fighters lost in one day on the western front was a big loss.  The American raiders helped to wear the Luftwaffe down; in these raids the USAF shot down 1 fighter for every 1.3 bombers lost.  Comparable British statistics for Hamburg are about 1 fighter shot down for every 8 bombers lost.<br />  Middlebrook tries to defend the British theology of nighttime aerial bombing as more cost effective than the costly American daylight bombing but this book only serves to reinforce the opposite conclusion.  Yes, the raids failed to cripple German industry, but they did hurt and disrupt it.  American raids were costly but they did hurt the enemy militarily without inflicting undue civilian suffering. British raids were also very costly, but they inflicted virtually no military damage and inflicted horrendous suffering. I think here that Middlebrook is reluctant to speak the underlying truth: the British conducted area bombing not from military necessity but to avenge bombed British cities and spread the misery. Carried through to today, we know that precision-bombing can work to achieve military goals while indiscriminate attacks on civilians are unlikely to be decisive in themselves.1.3 bombers lost.  Comparable British statistics for Hamburg are about 1 fighter shot down for every 8 bombers lost.<br />   Middlebrook tries to defend the British theology of nighttime aerial bombing as more cost effective than the costly American daylight bombing but this book only serves to reinforce the opposite conclusion.  Yes, the raids failed to cripple German industry, but they did hurt and disrupt it.  American raids were costly but they did hurt the enemy militarily without inflicting undue civilian suffering. British raids were also very costly, but they inflicted virtually no military damage and inflicted horrendous suffering. I think here that Middlebrook is reluctant to speak the underlying truth: the British conducted area bombing not from military necessity but to avenge bombed British cities and spread the misery. Carried through to today, we know that precision-bombing can work to achieve military goals while indiscriminate attacks on civilians are unlikely to be decisive in themselves.	2000-10-04
2270165:US	52533596	R22464VYSS6L5X	0806130040	387972469	Hannibals War: A Military History of the Second Punic War	Books	4	38	39	N	N	A Turning Point for the Roman Republic	J. F. Lazenby, an English professor of Ancient History, has written the definitive academic interpretation of the Second Punic War between Rome and Carthage from 218 to 202 BC.  The bulk of Lazenby's work is a synthesis of the two main ancient sources: the Greek Polybius who wrote about 50 years after the war and the Roman historian Livy who wrote his account about 200 years after the war.  Several other ancient sources are also used, but the bulk of this history is an interpretation of Polybius and Livy by Lazenby.<br /> While Hannibal is clearly the main focus, Lazenby admits that the brilliant Carthaginian general can only be analyzed in terms of his actions not his character, due to the paucity of primary sources.  Lazenby clearly admires Hannibal and the reader is soon caught up in his admiration as well, following Hannibal's bold crossing of the Alps and stunning victories in Italy.  However Lazenby believes that Hannibal's greatest achievement was his survival in Italy for nearly fifteen years, virtually cut off from Carthage.  Scipio Africanus' rise is also well-documented, his bold campaign in Spain particularly stands out, but Lazenby places him second in skill to Hannibal.  This is akin to placing Wellington behind Napoleon in generalship, despite Waterloo.  Lazenby touches on the issue of whether or not Hannibal's entire strategy in Italy was flawed but then drops it without conclusion.  For myself, I think Hannibal was a tactical genius but he was overly rigid in strategic outlook since he seemed unable to grasp that his strategy of winning over Rome's Italian allies was not producing decisive results.  That he sat around in Italy for fifteen years doing little while the Romans overran Spain and Sicily seems to me that he failed to realize that Roman strategy had bypassed him.  Unable to defeat Hannibal directly, Roman strategy simply became to defeat the Carthaginians wherever Hannibal was not.<br /> Although the spotlight is on Hannibal, Lazenby views the Second Punic War as crucial to the evolution of the Roman Republic into a true empire.  Prior to the war, Roman armies had rarely ventured outside Italy.  By the end of the war in 202 BC, Roman armies had occupied parts of Spain, France, Albania, Greece and North Africa.  The Roman army also grew immensely in size and experience, fielding over 250,000 troops by the end of the war.  The war gave Rome both the incentive and the tools to establish a dominant hegemony over the Western Mediterranean littoral.<br /> There are several interesting themes that Lazenby hammers home throughout the book.  One is that Rome's victory was due to its superior ability to mobilize manpower.  Although the Romans suffered numerous costly defeats at the hands of Hannibal, they always seemed to raise more legions to hem him into a corner in the boot of Italy.  Carthage on the other hand, relied on professional mercenaries and had difficulty replacing large losses.  This ties into a second related theme, which is that while Carthage might have had a well-led professional army, it did not have much of an empire or faithful allies.  When Roman armies invaded Spain or North Africa, Carthage's allies melted away or deserted her.  Finally, a third theme is the instrumental nature of Roman seapower in the final victory.  Although there were no large naval battles, the Roman dominance of the sea was never seriously challenged by the Carthaginian fleet.  Sea control gave strategic flexibility to Scipio but denied it to Hannibal.<br /> Lazenby's account is the best synthesis available on the ancient sources.  It has decent sketch maps that support the text well and there are modern photos of some of the battlefields.  The only flaw is a tendency to digress on arcane disputes between Livy and Polybius when their respective accounts differ, which is distracting and should have been placed in endnotes.ws the Second Punic War as crucial to the evolution of the Roman Republic into a true empire.  Prior to the war, Roman armies had rarely ventured outside Italy.  By the end of the war in 202 BC, Roman armies had occupied parts of Spain, France, Albania, Greece and North Africa.  The Roman army also grew immensely in size and experience, fielding over 250,000 troops by the end of the war.  The war gave Rome both the incentive and the tools to establish a dominant hegemony over the Western Mediterranean littoral.<br /> There are several interesting themes that Lazenby hammers home throughout the book.  One is that Rome's victory was due to its superior ability to mobilize manpower.  Although the Romans suffered numerous costly defeats at the hands of Hannibal, they always seemed to raise more legions to hem him into a corner in the boot of Italy.  Carthage on the other hand, relied on professional mercenaries and had difficulty replacing large losses.  This ties into a second related theme, which is that while Carthage might have had a well-led professional army, it did not have much of an empire or faithful allies.  When Roman armies invaded Spain or North Africa, Carthage's allies melted away or deserted her.  Finally, a third theme is the instrumental nature of Roman seapower in the final victory.  Although there were no large naval battles, the Roman dominance of the sea was never seriously challenged by the Carthaginian fleet.  Sea control gave strategic flexibility to Scipio but denied it to Hannibal.  <br /> Lazenby's account is the best synthesis available on the ancient sources.  It has decent sketch maps that support the text well and there are modern photos of some of the battlefields.  The only flaw is a tendency to digress on arcane disputes between Livy and Polybius when their respective accounts differ, which is distracting and should have been placed in endnotes.	2000-09-26
2272886:US	52533596	R33IRH602EZ4U5	0140441506	141219283	The Histories (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	49	53	N	N	69 AD: The Year of the Four Emporers	The Histories, an account of the tumultuous year of 69 AD, is a historical tour de force by the Roman senator Cornelius Tacitus.  Although part of the original work which was written in 105-108 AD has been lost, that which remains is still one of the better works of an ancient historian.  The main strengths of this history lie in good organization and rich detail, combined with an excellent writing style and pithy observations.  The main characters are the four men who vied for imperial power in the wake of the emperor Nero's demise: the elderly Galba, the playboy Otho, the porcine Vitellius and the veteran soldier Vespasian.  All of these men sought to establish themselves in power and the result was a yearlong civil war that spread across virtually the entire empire.<br /> Organizationally, the book is divided into chapters that cover various events in chronological order.  The tension and drama mounts as chapters follow the murder of Galba, Vitellius' march on Rome, the suicide of Otho, Vespasian's bid for power and the revolt of upper Germany under Civilis.  Tacitus has organized the work well and the book quickly becomes a page-turner, as the drama and intrigue is interwoven between chapters.  There are virtually no diversions from the main themes and little material that is irrelevant.  The only problem organizationally, is that Tacitus includes very few time references so it can be difficult to gauge when events are actually occurring (the editor adds some dates in footnotes, but many other dates are vague).  He also introduces many characters without providing sufficient background material.<br /> One of the main values of Tacitus' work is the richness of detail.  There is considerable information on military order of battle and campaigns, as well as senatorial debates, imperial finances and political intrigues.  Militarily, the Roman army does not appear so grand in Tacitus' account of their civil war behavior.  Tacitus hates civil war and feels that it erodes the morality and discipline that made Rome great.  Indiscipline is rife, with jealous generals competing against each other and troops always on the verge of mutiny or massacring civilians.  Tacitus recounts that each of the armies of the imperial aspirants committed atrocities along the way to Rome in order to demonstrate the moral ambivalence of the civil struggle.  In combat, the Roman soldier of this period performed poorly, whether against fellow Romans or Germans.  Without discipline Tacitus suggests, the Roman army was little more than an armed mob led by criminals.  He notes that, &quot;a career of riot and looting was just the thing to acclimatize them to the idea of civil war&quot;.  Even the famed Praetorian Guard appears ragged, fickle and lazy here; at the Second Battle of Cremona they are told &quot;you are finished as soldiers unless you beat the enemy...Dishonor you have drunk to the dregs.&quot;  The Second Battle of Cremona, which the forces of Vespasian win, is highly unusual as an example of a night battle in ancient history.<br /> Tacitus is highly readable because his writing style is fluid and vivid.  In describing cowardly senators who were quick to switch allegiances he writes that, &quot;they expressed themselves in violent language, and played the hero with their tongue.&quot;  Galba is undone by &quot;the united chorus of delusion&quot; of his witless advisors.  When civil order in Rome begins to break down, Tacitus notes &quot;the willingness of the better men to obey orders had been neutralized by the darkness.&quot;  Tacitus also provides numerous pithy observations as well for the student of politics.  He says that, &quot;since time immemorial, man has had an instinctive love of power.&quot;  However he has contempt for the masses, writing, &quot;political issues are usually above the heads of the lower classes and the man in the street owing to their complexity.&quot;  Tacitus views the role of chance as critical in the outcome of events, rather than the relative merits of a cause.<br /> There is a certain bias in this work, as there is in all historical writing.  Tacitus denigrates Galba, Otho and Vitellius, but Vespasian is applauded as &quot;a born soldier&quot;.  Of course, Vespasian was the ultimate victor and the others were losers, so there is no doubt that Tacitus engages in propaganda to embellish the wickedness of those other aspirants to the throne.  Tacitus is also biased against the Germans (e.g. &quot;The actions of the Germans were marked by incoherent fury...&quot;) and the Jews.  He presents interesting but wildly inaccurate opinions on the origin of the Jews and Moses.  However it is interesting, in light of the persecution of Christians under Nero, that he makes no mention of Christianity.<br /> Tacitus' account of this critical year in history, when the Roman Empire swung in the balance, is gripping and dramatic. Although biased toward the ultimate victor, this is still an incredibly detailed and rich account of events.  Superb writing and organization complete the value of this historical triumph.me of events, rather than the relative merits of a cause.<br /> There is a certain bias in this work, as there is in all historical writing.  Tacitus denigrates Galba, Otho and Vitellius, but Vespasian is applauded as &quot;a born soldier&quot;.  Of course, Vespasian was the ultimate victor and the others were losers, so there is no doubt that Tacitus engages in propaganda to embellish the wickedness of those other aspirants to the throne.  Tacitus is also biased against the Germans (e.g. &quot;The actions of the Germans were marked by incoherent fury...&quot;) and the Jews.  He presents interesting but wildly inaccurate opinions on the origin of the Jews and Moses.  However it is interesting, in light of the persecution of Christians under Nero, that he makes no mention of Christianity.  <br /> Tacitus' account of this critical year in history, when the Roman Empire swung in the balance, is gripping and dramatic. Although biased toward the ultimate victor, this is still an incredibly detailed and rich account of events.  Superb writing and organization complete the value of this historical triumph.	2000-09-24
2286644:US	52533596	R348YIRQWIJN5X	1855329921	165827509	Jutland 1916: Clash of the Dreadnoughts (Campaign)	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	One of the Best of the Osprey Campaign Series	Author Charles London has set himself a difficult task: to write a 96-page  campaign summary of the controversial Battle of Jutland in 1916.  This was  the only major clash of dreadnought battleships before aircraft changed  naval warfare, but its uniqueness and inconclusive results provide ample  fodder for competing interpretations.<br />  On the whole, this volume  repesents one of the very best of the Osprey Campaign series.  The maps are  excellent, and provide much better depictions of the action than the sketch  maps usually provided in much lengthier works.  The strategic level map on  page 32 which depicts the opening moves is one of the best I have seen,  including locations of all U-Boats and British submarines (unfortunately he  did leave out Zeppelin patrol areas).  Both the photographs and artwork are  of excellent quality.  This volume is a valuable visual companion to John  Campbell's technical Jutland: An Analysis of the Fighting, which lacks  photos and decent maps.<br />  On the negative side, the author is rather  blatantly biased toward the British. There is little or no mention of  significant damage to British dreadnoughts, including the seven hits on HMS  Malaya, the six hits on HMS Barham and the torpedo hit on HMS Marlborough  (all three of which had close calls with sinking).  On the other hand,  damage to German ships is sometimes exaggerated; such as when the author  claims that three German pre-dreadnoughts were hit when in fact, two were  hit by one shell each (minor damage) and the third suffered one sailor  killed from a shell splinter. The author alludes to the German advantage in  night fighting but fails to mention that they had starshells, while the  British did not.<br />  The author makes selective use of the vast  technical data available on Jutland.  He notes that both sides gunnery was  about the same - 3% probability of hits and that the various advantages and  defects of their ship designs canceled each other out. In fact, the British  obtained 2.75% hits of rounds fired versus 3.39% for the Germans.  In the  initial battlecruiser action, the German edge was even more lop-sided: the  Germans scored 44 hits versus only 17 hits for the numerically-superior  British.<br />  Organizationally, this volume would have done better to  provide strict time delimiters, to break the action into phases. Instead,  the author uses the &quot;flow&quot; style, which gets very confusing after  the initial battlecruiser action. The maps help to sort out the battle, but  the text does not.  One wonders also why the author included photographs of  the Goeben, and ships sunk in the Falklands Battle two years prior to  Jutland, but no photos of several major ships such as the Lutzow and  Pommerm which were sunk there.<br />  Finally, the author seems somewhat  unsatisfied with the indecisive conclusion of Jutland, as everyone always  seems to be, except perhaps the Germans. The author uses the fact that the  Grand Fleet &quot;remained on the battlefield&quot; the next morning to  claim a victory for sea control and assert that Jellicoe would have won any  follow-up engagement off the Horn Reef.  Here the author's bias ignores the  fact that the Grand Fleet had lost all cohesion after twelve hours of  fighting; most of the destroyers were separated in the night action and  three dreadnoughts had wandered off 45 miles away from the main body.  Certainly Jellicoe had the strength to finish off any German cripples, but  any renewed battle would have witnessed a thoroughly-spread out Grand Fleet  fighting in minimal visibility conditions. Any action on 1 June would  likely have been a scaled-down repeat of the previous day: ships blundering  into each other in the haze and quick, furtive exchanges of gun fire.  More  ships might have been sunk, but without radar, air support, better  navigation and improved communications, the clash of dreadnoughts could not  be decisive in 1916.<br />  Despite the author's bias and certain errors,  this volume is still a valuable adjunct to any Jutland collection. Just  remember to keep other works handy to sort out the omissions.te the author's bias and certain errors,  this volume is still a valuable adjunct to any Jutland collection. Just  remember to keep other works handy to sort out the omissions.	2000-09-12
2288527:US	52533596	R3IQCGJPMARAL7	0140443622	583302544	The Rise of the Roman Empire (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	114	124	N	N	A Useful but Fragmentary History	Polybius, a Greek hostage held in Rome from 168 BC to 150 BC, set himself  the task of explaining the rise of the Roman Empire.  Deliberately written  for Roman audiences, Polybius intends to describe the 53 year rise to  hegemony from 220-167 BC.  However Polybius includes considerable  background material on the First Punic War and he later decided to extend  his history to include the Third Punic War.  Unfortunately, much of the  original work is missing and Penguin has decided to edit out even more,  which leaves a hollow remnant.<br />  The real value of this book lies in  Polybius' description of the Second Punic War with Hannibal.  There are  excellent battle descriptions of the Trebbia, Lake Trasimene, Cannae, the  Metaurus and Zama.  Remember, Polybius was writing only 60-70 years after  these events and had access to many documents that are now lost. Polybius  was also able to visit some of the battlefields when they had not changed  significantly since Hannibal's time.  There is also a good section on Roman  military methods, which was enlightening.<br />  However this book is  disappointing in a number of areas.  In terms of the original work,  Polybius tends to digress on topics of interest to himself (but not to  modern readers), such as criticizing other contemporary historians.  He  also has a strong pedantic streak and strives more to impart  &quot;lessons&quot; than facts. He continually hammers home his theory that  one cannot be a good historian unless one has walked the ground and gained  personal military and political experiences.  This certainly helps, but  there are plenty of generals and politicians that make poor authors.  Yet  the greatest disappointment lies in the lack of any detail on the Third  Punic War and the dramatic defeat of the Greek phalanx by Roman legions at  Cynocephalae.  Since Polybius was a witness at the destruction of Carthage,  I eagerly anticipated this chapter only to find it instead to be a very  short three page section with only general comments.<br />Amazingly, the  period with the greatest detail is the Second Punic War, when Polybius was  not alive.  The Third Punic War and the Siege of Numantia in Spain, both of  which Polybius observed directly, are excluded.  This reduced the value of  this volume tremendously.age section with only general comments.  <br />Amazingly, the  period with the greatest detail is the Second Punic War, when Polybius was  not alive.  The Third Punic War and the Siege of Numantia in Spain, both of  which Polybius observed directly, are excluded.  This reduced the value of  this volume tremendously.	2000-09-09
2288942:US	52533596	R102BUU3I6T27N	1855329670	499224884	Operation Compass 1940: Wavell's Whirlwind Offensive (Campaign)	Books	3	19	24	N	Y	A Useful Synthesis but Flawed Synthesis	While realizing the 95-page space limitation of the Osprey Campaign  series, this volume on the initial British offensive in North Africa could  have been much better.  Jon Latimer, the author, is a serving officer with  the Royal Welch Fusiliers (TA). Latimer brings military experience to this  volume, which is useful, but it is not enough.  He has culled together the  best available references to produce a useful synthesis, but he does not go  far enough.<br />  Latimer is to be applauded for mentioning the roles of  the Royal Air Force, the Royal Navy, the Reggia Aeoronautica (Italian Air  Force), intelligence and various aspects of equipment.  Some of his  information, such as the high quality of British intelligence versus the  poor quality of Italian intelligence is very contentious.  Despite valuable  signals intelligence, the British were actually quite weak in tactical  reconnaissance and they knew it; thus they began to form the Long Range  Desert Groups in late 1940.  A few months later, Rommel and the Afrika  Korps would amply demonstrate how weak the British really were in  reconnaissance.<br />  The biggest flaw in this volume are the maps.  First, all three of the 3-D maps are presented &quot;upside down&quot; with  south pointing to the top of the page.  This is disconcerting to readers  familiar with North African terrain and odd for an army officer.  Second,  there are not enough maps to fully support the Battle of the Camps and the  attack on Bardia.<br />  Oddly, the author neglects the main commanders  Wavell and O'Connor (there is only one very poor photo of O'connor in the  volume, but a better shot of Wilson, who had no command role in the  campaign).  Operation Compass was O'Connor's show and he deserves better  treatment, even in a short volume. The author might have mentioned that  O'Connor had quite a lot of experience with the Italians, having served in  Italy in the First World War (where he was decorated for valor).  Nor does  the author mention that O'Connor was captured by Rommel's vanguard just two  months after his great victory at Beda Fomm. Field Marshal Wavell is also  slighted, no mention of losing an eye in the First World War, extensive  staff experience in Russia and the Mideast, etc.<br />  There are some  egregious editing problems in this volume as well.  The photo on page 61,  supposedly of the Italian cruiser San Giorgio, is actually a well-known  photo of the burning German pocket battleship Graph Spee.  The author's  tendency to use modern military vernacular, referring to units as &quot;3  and 7H&quot; instead of 3rd and 8th Hussars, should have been curbed.  There are also odd word choices such as &quot;scudding rain&quot; and  awkward sentences.<br />  This volume is a good introduction to Operation  Compass, but it certainly could have packed in more detail.  The author  frequently mentions logistic problems but never clarifies.  In the section  on opposing armies, the author might have explained how much motor  transport was available and the difficulty of desert logistics.<br />  Finally, it amazes me that a military author would not attempt a bit more  analysis of the classic victory at Beda Fomm. Perhaps because the victory  was so complete, the author feels that no analysis is necessary. Perhaps,  because Italian performance was so terrible, analysis also seems moot.  However given the rather poor performance of British desert operations in  the remainder of 1941, the author might have tried to answer: what did the  British learn from this campaign and more important, what did they retain?  Is it possible that lacking serious resistance from the Italians, the  British gained an exaggerated opinion of their own capabilities which would  work against them once the Afrika Korps arrived? This questions might at  least have been raised for thought, if not for answer.es  the author mention that O'Connor was captured by Rommel's vanguard just two  months after his great victory at Beda Fomm. Field Marshal Wavell is also  slighted, no mention of losing an eye in the First World War, extensive  staff experience in Russia and the Mideast, etc.  <br />    There are some  egregious editing problems in this volume as well.  The photo on page 61,  supposedly of the Italian cruiser San Giorgio, is actually a well-known  photo of the burning German pocket battleship Graph Spee.  The author's  tendency to use modern military vernacular, referring to units as &quot;3  and 7H&quot; instead of 3rd and 8th Hussars, should have been curbed.   There are also odd word choices such as &quot;scudding rain&quot; and  awkward sentences.  <br />    This volume is a good introduction to Operation  Compass, but it certainly could have packed in more detail.  The author  frequently mentions logistic problems but never clarifies.  In the section  on opposing armies, the author might have explained how much motor  transport was available and the difficulty of desert logistics.<br />     Finally, it amazes me that a military author would not attempt a bit more  analysis of the classic victory at Beda Fomm. Perhaps because the victory  was so complete, the author feels that no analysis is necessary. Perhaps,  because Italian performance was so terrible, analysis also seems moot.  However given the rather poor performance of British desert operations in  the remainder of 1941, the author might have tried to answer: what did the  British learn from this campaign and more important, what did they retain?  Is it possible that lacking serious resistance from the Italians, the  British gained an exaggerated opinion of their own capabilities which would  work against them once the Afrika Korps arrived? This questions might at  least have been raised for thought, if not for answer.	2000-09-09
2308139:US	52533596	R239PPAVFTA4WT	1841760455	881193483	BARBARIANS AGAINST ROME Rome's Celtic, Germanic, Spanish and Gallic Enemies	Books	3	21	22	N	N	A Cursory Look at Rome's Western Barbarian Enemies	This volume is a synthesis of earlier Osprey Men-at-Arms titles on Rome's  barbarian enemies.  It is composed of three chapters: one on the Germans  and Dacians, one on the Gallic and British Celts and one on Spanish armies.  The time period covered varies from chapter to chapter; the first covers  the largest period, from about 400 BC to 476 AD, the second focuses on 115  BC to 84 AD and the last deals with 218 to 133 BC.<br />  The first chapter,  on the Germans and Dacians, is probably the least informative. Although  there are plenty of illustrations of weapons, helmets and shields, there is  precious little information on either actual campaigns or the real nature  of these enemies.  The Teutoberg disaster in AD 9 and Germanicus'  subsequent retribution campaigns are glossed over in a single paragraph.  Although information on these operations is not overly-abundant, the Roman  historian Tacitus certainly provides enough material to add greater depth  here. The Dacian campaigns of the 2nd Century AD also remain murky. A high  quality color map, showing terrain and possible routes would have helped  greatly.<br />  The second chapter, on the Celts and the Gauls, provides  better detail on the structure of their societies, as well as plenty of  information on weapons and equipment. The Cimbrian Wars of 115-102 BC are  fairly well covered but Caesar's well-recorded campaigns in Gaul are  regurgitated in sterile fashion, with no supporting maps or diagrams. The  final dramatic siege of Alesia certainly deserves a map and artwork. Nor is  there much detail on Queen Boudicca's revolt, including a lack of any  artist plates.<br />  The third chapter, on Spanish armies, was clearly the  best written.  The author not only provides the standard information on  weapons and equipment, but examines the impact of the Hispanic Wars on  Rome.  The author provides excellent analysis that these under-examined  wars in Spain placed Rome in a painful dilemma. On the one hand, Spain had  plentiful resources for Rome to loot or tax; in 200 BC alone, the Romans  removed over 2,400 pounds of gold and 44,000 pounds of silver.  On the  other hand, the fanatical guerrilla-style resistance of the Spanish tribes  to Roman rule were extremely costly and embarassing to the Roman army.  The  author estimates that the Roman population in Spain actually declined by  about 65,000 between 153-133 BC.  The author provides two well-written  campaign summaries to illustrate the nature of the war in Spain: the  campaigns of Viriatus (147-139 BC) and the Numantine Wars (153-133 BC).  Unlike the earlier chapters, the author here provides useful sketches and  diagrams on the siege of Numantia.  There are also useful sections on  Hispanic cavalry and Balaeric slingers.  The only flaw in this chapter is  the over-use of photographs of broken pottery fragments to illustrate some  aspects of equipment. To me, all I see is pieces of broken pottery with  scratch marks on them, not proper illustrations.<br />  Taken as a whole,  this volume is a useful synopsis of the most important western barbarian  tribes that opposed Roman hegemony. Unfortunately, Osprey has merely glued  three separate volumes together but failed to provide proper editing or any  value-added products, such as high quality maps or new artwork. Thus, if  you already own the original Men-at-Arms titles, there is no reason to  purchase this volume.  However if you do not, then this volume is a useful  addition for anyone interested in Roman warfare., Spain had  plentiful resources for Rome to loot or tax; in 200 BC alone, the Romans  removed over 2,400 pounds of gold and 44,000 pounds of silver.  On the  other hand, the fanatical guerrilla-style resistance of the Spanish tribes  to Roman rule were extremely costly and embarassing to the Roman army.  The  author estimates that the Roman population in Spain actually declined by  about 65,000 between 153-133 BC.  The author provides two well-written  campaign summaries to illustrate the nature of the war in Spain: the  campaigns of Viriatus (147-139 BC) and the Numantine Wars (153-133 BC).   Unlike the earlier chapters, the author here provides useful sketches and  diagrams on the siege of Numantia.  There are also useful sections on  Hispanic cavalry and Balaeric slingers.  The only flaw in this chapter is  the over-use of photographs of broken pottery fragments to illustrate some  aspects of equipment. To me, all I see is pieces of broken pottery with  scratch marks on them, not proper illustrations.<br />   Taken as a whole,  this volume is a useful synopsis of the most important western barbarian  tribes that opposed Roman hegemony. Unfortunately, Osprey has merely glued  three separate volumes together but failed to provide proper editing or any  value-added products, such as high quality maps or new artwork. Thus, if  you already own the original Men-at-Arms titles, there is no reason to  purchase this volume.  However if you do not, then this volume is a useful  addition for anyone interested in Roman warfare.	2000-08-25
2350169:US	52533596	R3914M8OGFY12C	0140440070	356515104	The Persian Expedition (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	29	46	N	N	Mercenaries Run Amok	The march of &quot;the 10,000&quot; (actually about 12,500 started the march) is an epic tale but it lacks any real military lessons.  Xenophon, like most ancient writers, is unreliable when it comes to numbers: for  example, he claimed that the Persian army at the Battle of Cunaxa was over  1 million strong and that the Greeks suffered only one hoplite wounded.  More than likely, Greek casualties were slight because the battle was more  of a meeting engagement that stopped once Cyrus got himself killed by  stupidly charging into the enemy masses with only his personal escort.  After treacherously murdering the Greek officers in a fake parley, the  Persians made only half-hearted efforts to block or harass the retreating  Greeks. The Greek army was handicapped not only by the loss of its officers  and Persian allies but by its own composition; an infantry-pure force with  virtually no cavalry and only a handful of archers.  The Greeks suffered  heavily from the constant skirmishing with the mountain tribes in Armenia  and even more from the winter snows.<br />  Some points are evident.  Unlike the earlier Greek armies in the Peloponnesian Wars that were  motivated by patriotism or the later Macedonian army that was a  professional force, Xenophon's army was a diverse force, with loose  cohesion and poor discipline that was motivated primarily by a desire for  plunder and booty.  This was a mercenary army.  Amazingly, individual  subordinate commanders would abandon their troops and strike off on their  own when they could commandeer ships.  Xenophon himself was probably more  of a politically ambitious military dilettante than a true soldier.  When  the army reached safety, the ingrate subordinates turned on Xenophon and  threatened him with death over pay issues. This was a force with absolutely  no loyalty to any city or leader.  By the end of the march, the army lost  almost all cohesion and began to split into ethnic groups. Surprisingly,  the returning Greek mercenaries were quite brutal to the Greek colonies in  Asia Minor that received them.<br />  It is also amazing how military  decisions were made, particularly the heavy influence of religious  sacrifices and soothsayers - I don't think Alexander would have put up with  so much of this nonsense (e.g. the Gordian knot episode). At one point, the  Greeks stopped their attack during an opposed river-crossing and conducted  sacrifices in the middle of the river on whether or not to proceed.  Reconnaissance was not a Greek strongpoint, since they tended to blunder  into trouble, had poor local security and relied very heavily on dumb luck.  Probably the thing that saved their stranded army was the unwillingness of  their foes to come to grips at close range and overwhelm them.  They  actually fought no large-scale battles during the entire expedition,  including the tactical oddity of Cunaxa.<br />  Rex Warner's translation is  excellent and quite clean of misunderstanding.  There is only one map  depicting the general route of the Greek mercenaries.rcenaries were quite brutal to the Greek colonies in  Asia Minor that received them.<br />  It is also amazing how military  decisions were made, particularly the heavy influence of religious  sacrifices and soothsayers - I don't think Alexander would have put up with  so much of this nonsense (e.g. the Gordian knot episode). At one point, the  Greeks stopped their attack during an opposed river-crossing and conducted  sacrifices in the middle of the river on whether or not to proceed.  Reconnaissance was not a Greek strongpoint, since they tended to blunder  into trouble, had poor local security and relied very heavily on dumb luck.  Probably the thing that saved their stranded army was the unwillingness of  their foes to come to grips at close range and overwhelm them.  They  actually fought no large-scale battles during the entire expedition,  including the tactical oddity of Cunaxa.<br />  Rex Warner's translation is  excellent and quite clean of misunderstanding.  There is only one map  depicting the general route of the Greek mercenaries.	2000-07-27
2371636:US	52533596	R1RVDCFF0ZGNTA	0700608761	523851535	Stopped at Stalingrad: The Luftwaffe and Hitler's Defeat in the East, 1942-1943 (Modern War Studies)	Books	3	28	32	N	N	A Dry, Academic Analysis of von Richtofen's Diary	This is a very dry and academic approach which studies the role of the Luftwaffe in the 1942 German campaign in Russia.  Haywood likes quoting big chunks of Generaloberst Richtoften's diary and similar sources but this  gives only a very high-level view of the campaign.  Soviet sources are  addressed but amazingly, Haywood fails to delve deeply into the German's  opponents - the Soviet Air Force.  There is very little military or  strategic analysis here, nor is this a chronological account of daily  operations.  Instead, Haywood gives a general flavor for Luftwaffe  operations.  Nor is there the necessary quantitative data to support a full  analysis of Luftwaffe operations: complete OB for the campaign, aircraft  on-hand and available, supplies available, detailed info on logistics.  Instead, we are presented a generalized account. The sketch maps used in  this book are also crude and totally inadequate.<br />  In an account  covering an operational air campaign, one would expect to find specific  analysis of the opposing air forces performance in the key missions of air  superiority, ground support, reconnaissance and transport.  Unfortunately,  Haywood only skims over these core missions, probably because he fails to  comprehend their importance to his account.  Comparative equipment analysis  is also missing here.  No account of the Battle of Britain would skip over  the technical issues of Me-109 vs Spitfire that shaped the battle, but  Haywood eschews technical specifics.  Hence the reader will not learn  anything about how Luftwaffe aircraft compared with their Soviet rivals.<br />  There are also errors such as the assertion that the Germans conquered  Voronezh in July 1942 when in fact they only seized part of the city before  they ran out of steam (they failed to get the bridges over the Don).  There  is very little mention of specific pilots or units, which is odd  considering that Erich Hartmann got his start here in November 1942.<br />  One interesting point is that Haywood puts heavy emphasis on German  tactical success being dependent upon the coordination of a joint  armor-aviation schwerpunkt.  He also has interesting information on the  participation of Luftwaffe Flak units in ground battles and the handful of  German deep penetration raids against the Caucusus oil fields.<br />  In  sum, this book is valuable because an operational level account of the  German air war in Russia in 1942 is a rare bird indeed.  However, the book  is too narrowly focused on von Richtofen's viewpoint and the style too  academic to make this the definitive account.  Haywood has added to the  general material available on Luftwaffe operations in Russia, but the book  lacks depth in too many areas.nteresting point is that Haywood puts heavy emphasis on German  tactical success being dependent upon the coordination of a joint  armor-aviation schwerpunkt.  He also has interesting information on the  participation of Luftwaffe Flak units in ground battles and the handful of  German deep penetration raids against the Caucusus oil fields.  <br />    In  sum, this book is valuable because an operational level account of the  German air war in Russia in 1942 is a rare bird indeed.  However, the book  is too narrowly focused on von Richtofen's viewpoint and the style too  academic to make this the definitive account.  Haywood has added to the  general material available on Luftwaffe operations in Russia, but the book  lacks depth in too many areas.	2000-07-13
2390150:US	52533596	R2QG59ZRUH4ZIQ	0520211669	257643940	Rome and the Enemy: Imperial Strategy in the Principate	Books	4	35	35	N	N	Peace Through Terror	Susan Mattern, a professor at the University of Georgia, has written a well-researched analysis of how the Roman Empire's leaders made strategic decisions from 31 BC to 235 AD.  Chapters cover topics from the nature of  the decision-making elite, the Roman image of the world around them,  strategic limitations, economic resources, and strategic values.  Although  a bit dry and academic in tone, this work provides a valuable synthesis of  the elements that enabled Roman leaders to formulate a strategic policy for  the Empire.<br />  Roman policy, as Mattern hammers home repeatedly,  was not based upon either deterrence or a search for defensible borders.  Rather, Roman policy rested upon overawing both external and internal  enemies with the ability of the Empire to inflict massive military  punishment upon all transgressors.  Rome made war to avenge injuries upon  the empire in order to maintain the honor of that entity.  Failure to  avenge a Barbarian attack or to settle disputes with diplomacy was viewed  by Roman leaders as not only a sign of weakness, but also an invitation to  further enemy aggression.  In order to maintain peace, Barbarian arrogance  (i.e. disrespect for the power of Rome) had to be kept in line by smashing  military defeats, followed by humiliating surrenders.  The greater the  arrogance of the enemy, the more severe the Roman revenge, ranging from  mere defeat to total annihilation; as Mattern wrote, &quot;if a tribe  caused too much trouble, the Romans saw no moral or ethical argument  against wiping it off the face of the earth&quot;.  Nor was there a time  limit - Roman retribution might not come for years or even decades, but  their enemies had to be assured that it would come some day.<br />  Roman  security rested far more on repeated demonstrations of military prowess and  a willingness to pay any price to avenge insults to the Empire, than the  size of the army or border defenses.  Mattern has very useful chapters  detailing the limitations of the Roman Army based on available manpower and  the ability of the Empire to extract taxes.  Interestingly, the Roman Army  during this period amounted to only about 1% of the total population and  the military budget is estimated to have been approximately 2.5% of the  &quot;Imperial GNP&quot;.  These statistical points help Mattern to hammer  home her points that Roman strategy, as such there was, aimed at achieving  a psychological effect upon the enemy rather than achieving security  through either quantitative or qualitative superiority.  These chapters on  the economic underpinnings of the Empire and strategic limitations make  this book a valuable addition to any collection of Roman military  history.<br />  Mattern also makes interesting points on the differences  between how Romans made strategic decisions compared with current methods.  Amazingly, maps and geographical information were not used in planning  military operations.  Nor were financial considerations of cost and gained  measured; major military resources were devoted to hold onto Britain  despite the poor economic resources of the island.  Instead, Mattern  convincingly claims that it all came down to maintaining the image of the  Empire as able and willing to inflict assured retribution on aggressors.  Peace for Roman was thus achieved by psychologically terrorizing all  challengers into subject inactivity.ing the limitations of the Roman Army based on available manpower and  the ability of the Empire to extract taxes.  Interestingly, the Roman Army  during this period amounted to only about 1% of the total population and  the military budget is estimated to have been approximately 2.5% of the  &quot;Imperial GNP&quot;.  These statistical points help Mattern to hammer  home her points that Roman strategy, as such there was, aimed at achieving  a psychological effect upon the enemy rather than achieving security  through either quantitative or qualitative superiority.  These chapters on  the economic underpinnings of the Empire and strategic limitations make  this book a valuable addition to any collection of Roman military  history.<br />    Mattern also makes interesting points on the differences  between how Romans made strategic decisions compared with current methods.   Amazingly, maps and geographical information were not used in planning  military operations.  Nor were financial considerations of cost and gained  measured; major military resources were devoted to hold onto Britain  despite the poor economic resources of the island.  Instead, Mattern  convincingly claims that it all came down to maintaining the image of the  Empire as able and willing to inflict assured retribution on aggressors.   Peace for Roman was thus achieved by psychologically terrorizing all  challengers into subject inactivity.	2000-07-04
2405592:US	52533596	R2Y53001ZH3GL6	0375406425	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	3	153	199	N	N	Everything you always wanted to know about the Stamp Act....	Ostensibly, this book is a comprehensive history of the Seven Years War (known as the French and Indian War in America) and its affects upon the British Empire in North America.  In fact, the focus of this book is on the  triangular relationship between the American colonists, the Indian tribes  struggling to maintain a balance between the warring European empires, and  the power struggles of British parliamentarians, rather than the war  itself.<br /> Fred Anderson, a university professor, writes well and he  avoids a narrow, parochial viewpoint in favor of a broad canvas that  depicts the struggle as a multi-dimensional global conflict.  Unfortunately, Anderson often only scrapes the surface and fails to provide  real detail on important issues, like what was the actual balance of power  between New France and the British colonies (figures on population,  economic productivity and military potential would have been useful).  Instead, Anderson spends many tedious pages detailing various treaties with  Indian tribes, inter-colonial bickering and the land interests of the Penn  family.  The real weakness of the book is that Anderson fails to properly  address the meat and potatoes of this subject: the military campaigns  fought between 1755 and 1760 for the control of Canada.  Anderson eschews  details such as order of battle, casualties or analysis in favor of  selected eyewitness accounts, which add little.  Major military operations  are glossed over quickly: the siege of Louisburg gets only four pages but  the post-war land squabbles between Connecticut and Pennsylvania get six.  Only eight pages are spent on the Battle of Ticonderoga in 1758, but more  than thirty pages are spent on the Stamp Act.  The only exception to this  is the climatic Battle on the Plains of Abraham, which Anderson dismisses  as a &quot;dubious battle&quot; that was neither decisive nor brilliantly  fought.  In his most controversial interpretation, Anderson claims that the  British General Wolfe blundered into the battle without a plan, as part of  a suicidal death wish.  No evidence is presented to support this  revisionist accusation, nor does Anderson disclose how he knows what was  going on in Wolfe's mind.  This leads to a second weakness of the book,  which is that while many historical characters parade through the chapters,  they remain ciphers because the author makes little effort to detail their  backgrounds or pre-war experience.<br /> This book desperately needs  several appendices, covering topics such as a list of the British regular  units that served in America during the war, a list of colonial units  raised and war-expenses of each colony, and capsule biographies of all the  major participants.  Anderson does provide some additional detail in the 85  pages of endnotes, but he often finds it sufficient to cite a source  without telling the reader what additional information it contains.  To be  sure, Anderson's book is impeccably researched.  Yet the book is sadly  lacking in detail on many important topics, including Britain's naval  superiority and economic mobilization, both of which were crucial to the  outcome.  Interesting topics, such as the creation of Roger's Rangers and  the British condoning of scalping are glossed over.  In order to make sense  of Anderson's sketchy detail, I frequently had to consult other books on  the war.  A 746-page volume should not force a reader to conduct so much  extra legwork.  French perspectives are also given short shrift, and their  strategic objectives are never explained (what did France hope to gain?).  After the fall of Montreal in 1760, France drops out of Anderson's account  and we hear no more of them - which is pretty ridiculous given that the  effect of losing Canada upon France is never discussed.  In another area,  Anderson's use of colonial-era maps, while quaint, was a poor choice since  they are very difficult to read and hence constitute only useless  eyewash.<br /> Finally, the real crux of this book comes down to one  issue: Anderson wants to break from standard historical accounts that  depict the war as merely a prelude to the American Revolution and instead,  to portray it as a stand-alone event that did not inevitably lead to  revolution.  However much his intent, Anderson actually does tend to use  foreshadowing of future British-American friction throughout his narrative.  At heart, Anderson is a colonial-era historian and his main interest is in  the political and emotional ramifications of the war.  Indeed, less than  half of the book is actually devoted to the war and the last 180 pages are  pre-occupied with post-war taxation policies.  Nowhere does Anderson  summarize the war's human and financial costs, which are certainly more  germane than the antics of various colonials in frustrating British customs  policies.  Contrary to what other reviewers might claim, Fred Anderson has  not written the definitive account of the Seven Years War or even come  close; most of his work covers well-trodden ground with few new  revelations.  If you want to learn a lot about the Stamp Act, read this  book. If you want to learn a lot about the Seven Years War, keep looking...y, the real crux of this book comes down to one  issue: Anderson wants to break from standard historical accounts that  depict the war as merely a prelude to the American Revolution and instead,  to portray it as a stand-alone event that did not inevitably lead to  revolution.  However much his intent, Anderson actually does tend to use  foreshadowing of future British-American friction throughout his narrative.  At heart, Anderson is a colonial-era historian and his main interest is in  the political and emotional ramifications of the war.  Indeed, less than  half of the book is actually devoted to the war and the last 180 pages are  pre-occupied with post-war taxation policies.  Nowhere does Anderson  summarize the war's human and financial costs, which are certainly more  germane than the antics of various colonials in frustrating British customs  policies.  Contrary to what other reviewers might claim, Fred Anderson has  not written the definitive account of the Seven Years War or even come  close; most of his work covers well-trodden ground with few new  revelations.  If you want to learn a lot about the Stamp Act, read this  book. If you want to learn a lot about the Seven Years War, keep looking...	2000-06-24
2405976:US	52533596	R18TXD4INKZO1S	0375700455	841119426	The First World War	Books	4	6	10	N	N	If Only they had better communications technology...	John Keegan does his usual good job of synthesizing a complex event down to its core issues in 427 pages.  There is not a lot new here but he does dredge up some interesting facts, as well as providing sound analysis and  pithy comments.  Under Keegan's analysis, the vaunted Schlieffen Plan  appears as a hopelessly flawed effort based on overly-optimistic  assumptions rather than realistic staff work.  German military atrocities  in Belgium in 1914, with well over 1,000 civilians shot, appear as idiotic  acts serving no useful military purpose.  French reconnaissance in 1914,  both cavalry corps and aviation, were terrible and allowed the French to  blunder into German forces in the Ardennes.  German units excelled in field  fortification from the outset, based on study of the Russo-Japanese War;  the German army had a 3:2 superiority in engineers and all troops were  trained to dig in whenever they stopped advancing.  In the east, superior  military intelligence capabilities gave the outnumbered Germans an edge  over the Russians, but Keegan notes a Russian superiority in maneuver  warfare and strategic deception (both attributes that would contribute to  victory in 1943-5).  Despite portrayals of &quot;Chateau Generalship&quot;,  56 British generals were killed in action in WWI, against only 21 British  generals KIA in WWII.  Keegan sees the main reason for the trench  stalemate as a technological lag in Command &amp; Control technology:  &quot;the generals were trapped within the iron fetters of a technology all  too adequate for mass destruction of life but quite inadequate to restore  to them the flexibilities of control that would have kept destruction of  life within bearable limits.&quot;  Certainly C2 deficiencies (e.g. lack of  tactical radios) contributed to inadequate combined arms coordination  between infantry and artillery but this is only part of the story, since  Germany regained tactical mobility in 1918 by doctrinal not technological  improvements.  Large masses of infantry attacking across open ground would  have failed with or without tactical radios.  Keegan misses the importance  of the development of a vast assortment of infantry support weapons in the  last two years, such as sub-machine-guns, mortars, flame-throwers,  grenade-launchers, that provided unsupported infantry with the firepower to  breach a prepared defense.  Restricted terrain on the Western Front also  played a big part in the stalemate.  Tactical stalemates would re-occur in  later wars when similar conditions prevailed (narrow front, many killing  systems) such as at Kursk or the first few days on the Suez in 1973.  Blaming trench warfare on a sole technological deficiency is overly  simplistic.  Nevertheless, a good read.provements.  Large masses of infantry attacking across open ground would  have failed with or without tactical radios.  Keegan misses the importance  of the development of a vast assortment of infantry support weapons in the  last two years, such as sub-machine-guns, mortars, flame-throwers,  grenade-launchers, that provided unsupported infantry with the firepower to  breach a prepared defense.  Restricted terrain on the Western Front also  played a big part in the stalemate.  Tactical stalemates would re-occur in  later wars when similar conditions prevailed (narrow front, many killing  systems) such as at Kursk or the first few days on the Suez in 1973.   Blaming trench warfare on a sole technological deficiency is overly  simplistic.  Nevertheless, a good read.	2000-06-24
2433795:US	52533596	R2M5C7S6II4HWW	0764301349	34455862	Himmler's Bosnian Division: The Waffen-SS Handschar Division 1943-1945	Books	3	10	15	N	N	A Good Introduction to the Bosnian Role in the SS	An interesting history of the 13th SS Mountain Division that was formed by the Germans from Bosnian Muslims in 1942.  The division was initially well-armed and quite strong for a mid-war formation: about 20,000 troops.  Lepre outlines how troops were recruited for the division and trained in  France and Germany.  However the Germnan selection process did not weed out  all malcontents and consequently, a mutiny broke out during training in  France and several German officers were murdered before the ringleaders  were caught. Unfortunately, Lepre never gives us a complete breakdown of  the organization and equipment of the division, particularly in comparison  to other German mountain units. Nor does Lepre discuss the German  occupation in Bosnia prior to 1942 or Muslim cooperation with the Germans  in 1941. Another weakness is inadequate maps.  The division did well in  initially fighting against partisans when first committed to Bosnia in  early 1943, but losses and declining morale ate at the unit by late summer  1943.  By September 1943 the unit began to disintegrate with heavy  desertions and fell apart completely when exposed to real combat in 1944.  A core of German officers and NCOs, as well as some Bosnians, fought on as  a battle group to the end of the war.  The best part of the book is the  first six months of the Handschar division's deployment into Bosnia and the  depiction of SS methods in attempting to suppress insurgency in the region.  Since the SS Handschar division occupied roughly the same area as currently  occupied by US forces in Bosnia, this book is an interesting historical  introduction into the wartime complicity of Bosnian Muslims with the Third  Reich.	2000-06-09
2435705:US	52533596	R1C68JZ4ZTAGTY	0679450882	620118114	A Short History of Byzantium	Books	5	81	85	N	N	An Introduction That Leaves You Hungry For More	An excellent introduction to the Byzantium Empire. Unlike most works written by British historians, this is very readable and not stuffy. Although this book races across 1,000 years of history in about 400 pages,  it does an excellent job of synopsis.  The record is full of succession  struggles, with the losers usually castrated or beheaded.  It is amazing  how much energy the Byzantines wasted on theological disputes that  continually undermined the morale of the empire. Norwich clearly explains  these important but complicated theological issues which ultimately shaped  Byzantium's destiny. On the military side, Norwich minimizes the impact of  the defeat at Manzikert in 1071 and instead stresses that the sack of  Constantinople by the Crusaders, the depredations of the Catalonian  mercenaries and the plague all did more real harm.  Norwich could have had  more detail on the Byzantine military and finances, both of which were  crucial to the rise and decline of this great empire. The political drama  of the continuous succession struggles is extremely well-told. Once readers  complete this excellent introduction, they will be eager to read the  original full-length three volume set.	2000-06-08
2437104:US	52533596	R11H5YLEP308VE	1855326191	810778976	Nagashino 1575: Slaughter at the barricades (Campaign)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Clash of Tactics &amp; Technology in Medieval Japan	The strengths of this Osprey Campaign series title are its excellent art work and maps, very detailed order of battle data, numerous modern photographs of the battlefield and the author's intimate knowledge of  Japanese 17th Century warfare. The description of both the siege of  Nagashino Castle and the battle are well-written.  However the author falls  a bit short in the area of military analysis.  The Takeda Army was renowned  for its cavalry - about 27% of its army - and Turnbull makes great effort  to show the defensive measures that Oda Nobunaga and Ieyasu Tokugawa took  to stop this cavalry. Yet Turnbull provides no detailed information on  Japanese Samurai cavalry tactics or why the Takeda cavalry was so  formidable. Turnbull does provide good detail on the arquebus corps and how  it was used. Finally, the entire rationale for the Takeda attacking a  relief force that was three times its size is never explained. In this  account, it appears rather foolhardy and almost suicidal. The bibliography  is quite sparse and the wargaming notes (not written by Turnbull) are the  usual silly 'matrix' and 'disguised scenario' sort. This is a good  complimentary work on a less known battle, but it could use a little more  depth and a little less &quot;fluffy&quot; artwork.	2000-06-08
2437873:US	52533596	R34S86BFSDJSET	0374253420	781263163	Endgame: The Betrayal and Fall of Srebrenica	Books	5	21	26	N	Y	The Face of Evil	This is a well-written, journalistic account of the fall of the Srebrenica safe haven in Bosnia in July 1995.  The story is told from many viewpoints, including Bosniacs, Serbs and Dutch UN troops.  The Dutch battalion looks  criminally negligent in its inability to stop a Serb force that barely  exceeded four tanks, 200 infantry and a few mortars, from overrunning the  town.  Serb and Bosniac tactical abilities also appear sloppy; Serbs fought  a 9 to 5 war and then went home and got drunk.  The UN sat on its hands and  did as little as possible. The maps in this book are excellent. The only  weakness of Rohde's account is a certain ignorance of military affairs,  which impacts upon the portayal of Serb and Dutch relative capabilities.  Once the town falls, the face of evil struts onto David Rohde's stage in  the form of General Ratko Mladic, who lies to the press while ordering the  massacre of hundreds of prisoners.  While the exact total number of Muslims  who died as a result of the fall of Srebrenica remains uncertain, Rohde  does yeoman work in piecing together the final moments of hundreds of the  victims. If anyone cannot undertsand why Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic  are indicted war criminals, read this book.	2000-06-07
2437934:US	52533596	RBRGX2L4QVNYX	1855328631	392323956	Bosworth 1485: Last charge of the Plantagenets (Campaign)	Books	2	6	19	N	N	A Vague Account of a Minor Dynastic Skirmish	This is not one of the better of the Osprey Campaign series.  The biggest weakness is the absence of detailed historical facts about the course of the 1485 Bosworth campaign, which encourages the author to extrapolate from  a handful of facts. When the author depicts three possible different  locations on the battle maps for the vital contingents of the Stanleys, it  only serves to reinforce the vagueness of detail available on this battle.  The actual fighting is covered in less than 10 pages out of 95.  Furthermore, why a brief dynastic skirmish of a handful of Englishmen in  the 15th Century merits a campaign title is never convincingly explained.  There is very little actual detail throughout and this is further  diminished by a writing style that moves at a sluggish pace.  Information  on order of battle and casualties is negligible.  This is the kind of book  that makes one want to read French, not English, history.	2000-06-07
2439130:US	52533596	R26XLMVLEA4GPX	1855328305	328302951	Malta 1565 : Last Battle of the Crusades	Books	5	24	28	N	N	A Well-Told Tale of Heroic Leadership	This is one of the very best of the Osprey Campaign series.  The author succinctly describes the strategic background to the campaign, opposing plans, leaders and the forces involved.  Order of Battle information is a  bit sketchy.  Once the Turks arrive, it became a bitter fight to the finish  between two experienced and fanatical forces.  This story is very  interesting for military professionals to study because the outcome of the  siege was close throughout, requiring imaginative use of &quot;combat  multipliers&quot; and sound generalship.  Both the heroism and leadership  of La Valette are well told by the author. The maps depicting the key  actions are excellent.  Perhaps there are some minor errors (and what work  of history is without error or omission?), but in this book there is a  pathos of a long ago battle that is brought to vivid life by the author.	2000-06-07
2444616:US	52533596	R1WZP5FP8ELUJD	1853673617	914428429	Invasion: The Alternate History of the German Invasion of England, July 1940	Books	4	42	43	N	Y	A Well-Written, If Somewhat Unlikely Alternative History	A well-written hypothetical account on what if the German Whermacht had launched Operation Sealion in July 1940 right after the fall of France.  In this version, the Germans land two infantry divisions near Dover and drop  the 7th Airborne Division.  In short, the British counterattack fails, the  Germans land their armor and British resistance collapses after about two  weeks.  Macksey includes good military detail, but he tends to portray most  British actions as half-hearted and inept.  The sea battles go far too well  for the Germans and the Royal Navy doesn't put in a good effort.  The whole  concept of a German invasion of England resides in accepting that the  Germans could cross the English Channel in the face of desperate British  resistance.  Unfortunately, Macksey doesn't really convince the reader that  the Kriegsmarine could do this. Macksey is a former armor officer and the  parts covering ground operations are the best, but the naval chapters are  weak.  Logistic issues are glossed over.  Interesting, but a bit  far-fetched. Maps are excellent and will be appreciated by military  historians.	2000-06-03
2445197:US	52533596	R1PZEUF7GF7CHP	0399145761	539869630	What if...?	Books	2	37	57	N	N	Not-very Original Historical Fluff	This is a collection of essays by various historians on alternate military outcomes in history, arranged in chronological order from Ancient times to 1983.  Although there are some interesting essays on the American  Revolution and a few other areas, the book is very disappointing. The  &quot;big name&quot; historians provide the worst-written essays, almost  afterthoughts.  The essay by John Keegan on what if Hitler had pursued a  Mediterranean strategy in 1941-2 totally ignores logistics and Nazi  political objectives.  Stephen Ambrose's essay on what if D-Day had failed  rests on non-military reasoning and is ridiculous (as if the Allies would  have abandoned D-Day because of bad weather). In light of Peter Tsouras'  excellent &quot;Disaster at D-Day&quot;, Ambrose's essay appears pathetic.  Other essays are rather pedestrian, like several on what if the South had  won the Civil War.  Yawn.  How many times is this going to be passed  around?  Many interesting and almost situations, like Operation Sealion, or  what if Iraq had invaded Saudi Arabia in 1990 are ignored. None of the  essays do a very good job on strategic analysis and assume too much about  single win/loss results (e.g. a Southern victory at Gettysburg was unlikely  to have won the war, since the North had already lost several battles  without any real reduction in its will to win).  This book is a collection  of not-very original quasi-historical fluff.	2000-06-03
2446109:US	52533596	RPYFKUFWL7Q1K	0140171355	777350313	Kaisers Battle 21 March 1918	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Disaster in the Fog	Middlebrook provides an in-depth account of the first day of the great German offensive on 21 March 1918.  He uses accounts from 650 German and British survivors, interwoven with a lot of good statistics.  The strength  of this work is that it provides a good perspective on both armies,  excellent orders of battle and a well-reasoned analysis section.  Middlebrook makes several major points.  First, the British were not let  down by their intelligence; they knew the attack was coming but they  thought it would develop more slowly, like all previous West Front  offensives.  Second, German infiltration tactics were used only by the  spearheads, while the bulk of the following infantry advanced in standard  lines.  The key factor in the German success was the heavy fog, which  greatly assisted infiltration by reducing the range of British defensive  fires to the point where gaps existed.  Middlebrook concludes that the  British were not experts at defense and morale was poor in some war-weary  units, but the defense would have done far better without the fog.  After  reading this, it causes the reader to wonder why more First World War  attacks didn't use fog as cover to reduce casualties.  Middlebrook also  exonerates General Gough, the Commander of the British 5th Army that was  smashed,  whom he claims was a scapegoat.  Middlebrook estimates that the  Germans lost over 10,000 killed in the first day, despite a successful  attack.  The British lost only about 7,500 killed but another 21,000 were  captured (and 500 artillery pieces).  Although the maps are often  inadequate, this is a well-written and thoroughly-researched account.	2000-06-02
2446644:US	52533596	R37EU4Y84XAVXB	0140171347	394420508	First Day On The Somme 1 July 1916 (Penguin History)	Books	5	37	37	N	Y	If Only All Military History Was This Well-Written	This is a very detailed account of the first day of the Somme offensive in 1916.  In one day, the British Army suffered over 57,000 casualties (including 21,000 dead) - a 50% loss rate.  Middlebrook chronicles how  Kitchener's New Army was raised and trained in 1914-1915, with high hopes  for achieving a decisive success in 1916.  While the Germans knew the date  and location of the offensive, they failed to move up adequate reserves  because they underestimated the length of front that was to be attacked.  General Rawlinson, Commander of 4th Army, bears much of the blame for the  disaster in Middlebrook's account, due to his insistence on slow, clumsy  &quot;wave&quot; infantry attacks, inflexible artillery support and non-use  of cavalry for exploitation.  Faulty British tactics led to total repulse  on most of the front with heavy casualties, but in the one place where  success was achieved with three divisions, Rawlinson forbade further  advance.  Attacking in broad daylight, at a walking pace into dug-in  machine guns behind extensive barbed wire was found to be a very bad idea.  Rawlinson had no concentration of effort; all infantry and artillery was  spread evenly along the front.  Nevertheless, British numbers (a 7-1  advantage) and courage could have scored a major success according to  Middlebrook if the New Army had been properly used.  The author stops to  review the battle at set periods and he concludes with a very well-done  analysis chapter.  Excellent appendices cover both sides Orders of Battle,  senior officer casualties, battalions that lost more than 500 men on 1 July  and Victoria Cross winners.  Although the maps could be a bit better, this  is military history that is thoroughly researched and well written.	2000-06-02
2456997:US	52533596	R1J82YF5YRPICE	1558217592	858316337	Jutland: An Analysis of the Fighting (Maritime Classics)	Books	3	17	19	N	Y	A Very Dry but Valuable Technical Account of Jutland	The author has compiled an impressive amount of technical data on the Battle of Jutland in 1916. Virtually every important detail concerning major caliber rounds fired and their effects is laid out.  Each chapter  covers a chronological part of the battle, usually 45-75 minutes each. The  final summary provides a very detailed list of the damage to each ship,  casualties and ammunition fired in the battle.  However this book is  limited in several areas.  It is not particularly readable because the  author seems to have an aversion to the English language in favor of  excessive use of jargon and sentence fragments. Organizationally, the book  needs a detailed chronology which might reduce some of the redundancy. A  big part of the book focuses on the damage to each ship and a huge weakness  is the reliance on poor-quality, hard-to-read crude sketches. After all the  effort he made to collect the information, the author makes little effort  to present it well. Standardized, well-drawn battle damage charts would  have made this an outstanding work. The battle maps are generally adequate  but the omission for one covering the critical night action was a serious  deficiency.  Finally, I reached the end and had two critical questions  remaining unanswered by the author: first, where German warships really  that superior or was it just lucky visibility conditions that aided their  gunnery? Second, which fleet was hurt more seriously and how might this  have affected a renewed battle if the British Grand Fleet had not lost  contact on the night of 31 May 1916? Overall, this is a great technical  work but it cannot be read without other, more thorough operational  accounts handy.	2000-05-27
2486624:US	52533596	R1RU8X5N190ORJ	0714646776	512069952	British Military Intelligence in the Palestine Campaign, 1914-1918 (Studies in Intelligence)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	How British Intelligence evolved into a war-winning tool	This is a well-documented history of British intelligence in the First World War, that grew out of a PhD dissertation written by a former Israeli military intelligence officer.  When the war began, British forces in Egypt had little reliable information on Turkish forces or intentions.  At first,  the British underestimated the ability of the Turks to attack the Suez  Canal, but after a minor raid they grossly overestimated their capability.  Throughout the war, British intelligence in the Mideast was hindered by  both cultural bias against the Turks combined with an Anglo-Centric view  that the Palestine front was a major front for the Ottoman Empire (which  actually regarded the Caucusus and the Russians as the main theater of  war).  Several noted figures appear in the text, such as T E Lawrence (AKA  &quot;Lawrence of Arabia&quot;), and their true roles and participation in  the war are depicted without the usual colorful embellishments. Sheffy  concludes that overall human intelligence (HUMINT) made little contribution  to the British victory because the information provided was generally too  little, too late.  The one effective spy ring, the &quot;Nili  Organization&quot; of Jews in occupied Palestine, was quickly broken up by  the Turks in 1917.  The only worthwhile human information came from  prisoners and defectors.  Sheffy claims convincingly that the most  significant intelligence development brought by the war was the shift from  dependence on human sources to reliance on technical means.  Indeed, the  British made very effective use of early imagery intelligence from aircraft  and radio intercepts. By the end of the war the British had honed  intelligence to the point that it could greatly contribute to the final  operational campaign.  Sheffy's book is well-written, if a bit dry at  times, and benefits from the insights of an intelligence professional.  This is a good addition to any well-rounded First World War library  collection.	2000-05-10
2486782:US	52533596	R3TPB6OHMCO3S5	0312220820	792663921	With Snow on their Boots: The Tragic Odyssey of the Russian Expeditionary Force in France During World War I	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A Narrow, but Interesting Account of an Obscure Army	This is the untold story of the two Russian brigades sent to France in 1916.  About 20,000 troops were sent in exchange for French ammunition sent to the eastern front. It was a trade that appeared to benefit both sides, since France was desperate for infantry replacements after Verdun and the  Russians were desperate for artillery ammunition that their weak economy  could not adequately provide. Although the Russian Expeditionary Force  (REF) units performed well in the 1917 Nivelle offensive (suffering about  1,000 killed) they quickly fell into disarray once the Russian Revolution  broke out.  One brigade remained somewhat reliable and ended up fighting  the other in order to suppress a mutiny.  The Russian officer corps appears  pretty pathetic in this account; they were unable to deal with their  insubordinate troops and the French had to deal with this mess.  By late  1917, the French no longer needed these troublesome troops due to American  entry into the war and the French were eager to wash their hands of this  awkward army.  The survivors of the REF trickled back to Russia in 1918,  while some remained in France to fight under French command.  Pro-Bolshevik  leaders were incarcerated by the French. This is a decent, well-documented  history of an obscure army that tries to examine the disintegration of the  Tsarist armies in microcosm. Unfortunately, Cockfield does not ask some  important questions, like why did these two brigades revolt but the two  Russian brigades sent to Salonika in Greece did not?  This book does lack  adequate maps and the actual description of the training and combat  employment of the REF is rather brief.  The bulk of the book focuses on the  gradual disintegration of these two units after the March 1917 Revolution.  The focus is also a bit narrow, as other Russian units sent to fight  outside the Eastern Front are only barely mentioned.	2000-05-10
2506593:US	52533596	R3DQI62S93FKQE	020802252X	985312247	Tannenberg: Clash of Empires	Books	3	17	19	N	Y	Tannenberg: In need of Better Maps and Organization	This is a widely acclaimed account of the great German victory over the Russians in 1914 that falls far short of expectations.  One third of the book is spent recounting the events leading up to a Russo-German war,  starting about 1870.  The author would have done better to spend time  discussing the organization, doctrine and leadership in both armies.  Instead, the armies of both sides remain rather faceless ciphers in this  account.  Showalter does a better job describing the campaign, with much  useful detail, but it is difficult to follow without adequate maps and the  timelimes of specific events are often vague.  Good maps are the heart of  any detailed operational-level military history, but this book lacks them.  Showalter does have some interesting observations, particularly about the  much-maligned Tsarist army. The Russian army apparently learned something  in the Russo-Japanese War because they had some initial tactical  superiority over the Germans in their use of artillery and skillful use of  terrain.  Despite spending over 100 pages discussing events leading up to  the war Showalter's account has a significant omission: despite the fact  that the Germans knew for over twenty years that they would have to conduct  a delaying operation in East Prussia against numerically-superior Russian  forces they never developed a proper mobile covering force or the doctrine  of delaying actions. Instead, the German army of 1914 had only two tactical  options: attack or defend, neither of which was well-suited for the start  of the war in the East.	2000-04-29
2507161:US	52533596	R23DWJLYY27XKI	0465057128	122798525	The Pity Of War: Explaining World War I	Books	1	81	149	N	N	A Ludicrous Revisionist Account of the First World War	This is a highly touted revisionist approach to the First World by an Oxford historian.  The book is primarily economic, social and literary in nature with quotations from all sorts of obscure (mostly pacifist) academics.  The author asks ten questions that challenge accepted notions  about the war, including the role of militarism and alliances, why Britain  intervened, was the outbreak of war popular, the role of propaganda and why  men kept fighting.  The author advances many counter-intuitive ideas but  does little to back them up with real facts (the author uses data very  selectively).  Many ludicrous conclusions are drawn, such as  &quot;Russia...had the most successful war economy,&quot; or &quot;a more  militaristic Germany...might have averted war&quot;.  Too much of the book is  full of boring social and economic observations that had little bearing on  the war.  On the military side, Ferguson totally ignores the  contributions of the British Expeditionary Force, particularly in stopping  the 1914 German onslaught.  According to Ferguson's very one-side use of  statistics, the Germans always inflicted heavier casualties on the Allies.  This ignores the real fact that the BEF inflicted 2-1 or better casualties  on the Germans in most of the 1914 battles, as the Americans did in 1918.  The American role in the war is denigrated by Ferguson, who says they  merely &quot;showed up&quot; and then launched &quot;old-fashioned and  wasteful&quot; frontal attacks.  Unable to understand the real doctrinal  and technical military problems posed by the Western Front, Ferguson joins  the crowd of academics who decry the &quot;waste&quot; of lives and plead  for any alternative. The fact that narrow frontages, defended in depth are  always difficult to penetrate (not just Ypres in 1917 but Kursk in 1943 and  the Suez and Golan fronts in 1973), means that the problem was not unique  to the First World War. The price of victory is not always cheap.  Instead, Ferguson depicts a supposedly preferable alternative to British  intervention in 1914: allowing Germany to conquer the continent while  retaining the overseas Empire (which ethnic nationalism would soon deprive  them of anyway).  This is a ludicrous endorsement for aggression and  ignores what Germany might have done to the people in these occupied lands.  The real pity of this work, other than shoddy analysis and research,  is that Ferguson never asks the most profound question: namely, what if  Germany had not mobilized and declared war on Russia in 1914, might the war  have remained a local affair in the Balkans?  Furthermore, might the  inefficient war-making potential of Austria-Hungary versus the limited  capabilities of Serbia led to a military stalemate that could have  facilitated a general European peace conference?  Unfortunately, Ferguson  is too pre-occupied with blaming the British for everything to notice that  Germany and Austria-Hungary actually started the shooting that claimed  millions of lives.icts a supposedly preferable alternative to British  intervention in 1914: allowing Germany to conquer the continent while  retaining the overseas Empire (which ethnic nationalism would soon deprive  them of anyway).  This is a ludicrous endorsement for aggression and  ignores what Germany might have done to the people in these occupied lands.  The real pity of this work, other than shoddy analysis and research,  is that Ferguson never asks the most profound question: namely, what if  Germany had not mobilized and declared war on Russia in 1914, might the war  have remained a local affair in the Balkans?  Furthermore, might the  inefficient war-making potential of Austria-Hungary versus the limited  capabilities of Serbia led to a military stalemate that could have  facilitated a general European peace conference?  Unfortunately, Ferguson  is too pre-occupied with blaming the British for everything to notice that  Germany and Austria-Hungary actually started the shooting that claimed  millions of lives.	2000-04-29
