612:US	52697458	R24A7DP8FCR7KC	0316738263	229332418	Garbage Land: On the Secret Trail of Trash	Books	4	9	10	N	N	In the End, the Garbage Will Win	This book describes Elizabeth Royte's attempts to follow her household garbage as it was hauled out of her Brooklyn neighborhood. After getting to know her hard-working local sanitation workers and touring some nearby staging areas, Royte ran into trouble when asking to inspect the modern for-profit landfills. (NYC garbage often ends up in landfills in my ever-so-accepting state of Pennsylvania.) Landfills are now gigantic corporate operations where secrecy rules, as if they have something to hide from irate citizens or nosy government inspectors. I was disappointed that Royte gave up on the landfills so easily, because if she had stuck with her detective work, she could have written a powerhouse investigative report on this shifty business. Royte has better luck with following her recycled items, gaining much insight into the nature of recycling operations, from the questionable economics of citizen sorting efforts to whether or not recycling things really saves energy or raw materials. The answers to these questions will probably be more depressing than you expect.<br /><br />Royte's coverage of recycling turns out to be the most useful aspect of this book, and you may conclude that it's not all it's cracked up to be. That's because Royte shows that consumer and household waste actually makes up just a tiny percentage of what goes to landfills, and quaint small-scale efforts by individual citizens barely make a dent when large-scale commercial and industrial operations are given no reason to reduce their infinitely greater amounts of waste. Eventually, the book narrows down its arguments to the real benefits of reducing consumption and consumerism, because in theory we won&#8217;t have to worry about disposing of waste that is never created in the first place. (A New York City sanitation official provided the telling quote that I used as the title of this review.) Unfortunately, Royte jumps around among a great many smaller issues in refining this concept, which results in quick and spotty coverage of many important aspects of the garbage universe, while the reduce-reuse-recycle consensus is not backed up by any corroborated economics or authoritative philosophy. That gives this book a scattershot, unfocused, and inconclusive feel, though the basic information is certainly useful for those concerned about their own ecological footprint. [~doomsdayer520~]h results in quick and spotty coverage of many important aspects of the garbage universe, while the reduce-reuse-recycle consensus is not backed up by any corroborated economics or authoritative philosophy. That gives this book a scattershot, unfocused, and inconclusive feel, though the basic information is certainly useful for those concerned about their own ecological footprint. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-10-13
4106:US	52697458	R1PHPQRGQHI4FF	0380789019	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Bizarre Bazaar	Here Neil Gaiman has created an enjoyable and just slightly disconcerting novel for anyone who likes dark fantasy, and especially anyone wondering if there's more to life than a stable, dependable existence. Office dweeb Richard Mayhew has a pretty good life with a lucrative job and a pretty fianc&eacute;e, but it turns out that the job is boring and unfulfilling, and the fianc&eacute;e is coldhearted and manipulative. Richard helps an injured girl on the street and is transported into the (literal) London underworld, the abode of odd folks and creatures who have fallen through society's cracks. But these are cracks in society's memories and beliefs. It's a world of strange magic and dark threats, where Richard slowly transforms himself from dork to hero. But will he truly be happy returning to his old life, which was stable but unfulfilling, or will he choose to stay in the lost world where he's a hero among forgotten dregs? Gaiman has created an engaging society of misfits and magic, with unique and intriguing characters who bring out a true appreciation for the worse things in life. [~doomsdayer520~}	2005-10-11
12369:US	52697458	R1EFJS94AB60T4	006073132X	150560620	Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Answerable Questions, Questionable Answers	Steven Levitt is not a \\"rogue economist\\" with earth-shattering ideas, as some of the hype surrounding this book would suggest. However, he has applied the tools and theories of economics to the understanding of social situations, from the crucial to the mundane, leading to some intriguing and believable conclusions. But whether those conclusions can be practically applied, or even lead to true higher insights, is questionable. For example, I was genuinely fascinated by his chapter on how a baby's name can affect future success and development, though it's unclear how the numbers that Levitt comes up with can really lead to any tangible results. One thing to remember about this book, and Levitt's work in general, is that he asks tough questions and explores uncomfortable social phenomena, with racism and abortion being the most prevalent here. I'm the type who believes that numbers don&#8217;t lie and the trouble comes with interpretation. Thus, Levitt shouldn&#8217;t be blamed for the poor use of his numerical findings by the narrow-minded or those with distinct agendas, exemplified by the recent hateful comments by neo-con radio host Bill Bennett.<br /><br />However, interpretation (or more accurately, pretending not to interpret) is one of the fundamental weaknesses of economics, and Levitt is not immune to this issue no matter how offbeat his methods and thought processes are. He and co-author Stephen Dubner actually address this issue a few times during the book, and in discussing morality, conclude with the statement that economics (with its devotion to hard data without moral interpretation) reflects how the world really is, not how it ought to be. Unfortunately, hard amoral economics always has an impact on real people for whom human considerations are everything. Levitt may be an unusual economist with some informative answers to odd questions, but he still embodies all the flaws of his field. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-10-07
13381:US	52697458	RBLLSHGUQ5KS5	140004006X	685801017	1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus	Books	5	82	92	N	N	The Real Civilized Old World	This is a highly readable and informative compendium of current knowledge on the Americas prior to Columbian contact. Charles Mann has gathered modern research into an engaging narrative that offers updates on old theories, bold new theories that often contradict the old ones, and a fair amount of useful speculation on what was really happening in the ancient Americas. The speculative parts of this book will turn off serious historians (plus those with political, academic, or ethnic agendas, as can be seen in some of the more condescending reviews here), but the speculation offers plenty of food for thought, and Mann has mostly just channeled the exploratory ideas of his sources. In any case, such explorations are grounded in at least partially corroborated findings by modern archeologists, anthropologists, linguists, and experts in other fields, and Mann has made extensive use of legitimate sources both old and new. In fact, his bibliography will provide the enthusiast with reading material for years to come.<br /><br />In addition to increasing the reader's knowledge of little-covered Native American societies such as the Cahokians and several pre-Inka South American kingdoms, the main running contention in this book is not necessarily historical but ecological. There is growing evidence that Indians throughout the hemisphere did not live in a timeless and static communion with nature, which is a common \\"green\\" stereotype. Instead, the majority of native populations actively engineered their landscapes and altered their local ecologies to better suit human needs, though this usually (but not always) resulted in long-term mutual benefits for nature and man, rather than the dead-end destruction resulting from Western methods. And in general, large and structured city states seem to have been remarkably common, even in the previously little-appreciated Amazon basin (which itself is not as \\"pristine\\" or \\"untrammeled\\" as modern hype would have you believe). And finally, Mann presents the latest evidence showing that Native American populations were once several orders of magnitude higher than those found by European explorers and colonists, with horrendous percentages being wiped out by Western diseases just a few years before. While this book is not a groundbreaking research effort in its own right, Mann has compiled a great amount of knowledge that will go a long way toward shaping your views of how civilized the \\"old\\" world really was. [~doomsdayer520~]ly, Mann presents the latest evidence showing that Native American populations were once several orders of magnitude higher than those found by European explorers and colonists, with horrendous percentages being wiped out by Western diseases just a few years before. While this book is not a groundbreaking research effort in its own right, Mann has compiled a great amount of knowledge that will go a long way toward shaping your views of how civilized the \\"old\\" world really was. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-10-06
16765:US	52697458	RFTI1EVGJ0Y7P	0441028934	96794536	Arcturus Landing	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Humanity's Landing	This out-of-print chestnut from the golden age of SF is an enjoyable story if you happen to come across it in a library or used book store. But on the other hand there's no need to search too hard, because Gordon Dickson did better in his books that are still in print. This one is a fairly typical future/outer space action yarn about the human race's quest to invent a faster-than-light device, without which the planet will continue to be quarantined by a federation of much more advanced aliens. However, the heroic inventor and his stereotypical sidekicks run into sabotage and obstructionism from a powerful corporation that has a stake in keeping the human race isolated and primitive. That's the one unique aspect of this otherwise typical novel, as Dickson explores themes of power, knowledge, and control. His future technologies and the personalities of his alien races are also engagingly creative. But unfortunately the novel doesn't try too hard to break out of the pattern of action and suspense that was typical for SF at the time, and the story wraps up too quickly for the important themes to be explored in any real insightful way. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-10-04
19356:US	52697458	R2DJ3ZNLB5DAEV	0345458427	579397011	Iron Council (Bas-Lag)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Most Unworldly Insurrection	China Mieville is still barreling full steam ahead after the stupendous Perdido Street Station, and The Scar, which was slightly slower but still excellent. His incredibly unique and fertile imagination continues in this next installment of the New Crobuzon saga. Mieville's great strength is his bizarre settings and the rich visual quality of his writing. Good momentary examples of that here include a mile-long tortoise with a town carved into its back, or stone that turns to smoke then re-solidifies around everything and everyone trapped in its fog. The most fantastic concepts driving the story here are great ideas in the art of creating golems, and a train that lurches across the landscape by picking up tracks after it and putting new ones ahead, and becoming a slowly-moving and anarchic town in its own right. This locomotive city is home to the Iron Council, which broke away from the corporate dictators of New Crobuzon, and the legends of which have inspired the city's downtrodden to revolt. In this regard Mieville gets more political than previously, as he constructs a complex insurrection taking place in the Bas-Lag universe, which from a writing standpoint is clearly inspired by the Russian Revolution.<br /><br />That's a perfectly engaging plotline, but unfortunately this book does not have the gut-wrenching suspense and mindwarp intrigue of the previous novels. The characters here are lackluster and unlovable, while the storyline does not flow smoothly and is damaged by extensive flashbacks and tangents. The biggest problem is that Mieville seems to have used this novel as a dumping ground for all of his leftover ideas for strange and fantastic phenomena in the Bas-Lag universe. This especially applies to battle scenes and descriptions of the landscape, as multitudes of bizarre creatures and magical processes keep popping up then disappearing. That gives large portions of this book the feel of a pile of disconnected ideas, rather than a well-constructed storyline. I also didn&#8217;t care for the ending of this story, which is not poorly written by any means, but it doesn&#8217;t quite live up to the potential of the book's extensive build-up. China Mieville is still one of today's best young writers and he has tremendous ideas and creativity, though this book comes up a little short in realizing all of his strengths. [~doomsdayer520~]toryline. I also didn&#8217;t care for the ending of this story, which is not poorly written by any means, but it doesn&#8217;t quite live up to the potential of the book's extensive build-up. China Mieville is still one of today's best young writers and he has tremendous ideas and creativity, though this book comes up a little short in realizing all of his strengths. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-10-03
27377:US	52697458	R1RH1SZQUU6QLG	1582973113	886694415	The Wealthy Writer	Books	5	33	34	N	N	The Smart Business of Writing	Of all the guides out there that try to offer advice on freelance writing as a business you could really make a living from, you're most likely to keep this one on your shelf and consult it regularly. You could use Meanwell's encyclopedic advice as a reference for years to come. In the real world, it would be a complete miracle if you wrote the great American novel then had it picked up by an agent. You can reach for those dreams in your free time while following Meanwell's methods of making regular money now, in the freelance commercial writing market. This guide runs the gamut from making your career decision to setting up your business to finding available work in the corporate sector, all with practical knowledge from Meanwell's own successful experience. At times this book delves into too much detail, such as when Meanwell starts describing how to write company newsletters or direct mail submissions. But on the other hand, it's amazing how many different topics he covers about freelance writing as a viable career. There are plenty of other books out there that try to teach you how to write, but this one is among the best for at least getting started on making a living by doing what you love, especially when it comes to running a legitimate business. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-09-29
31119:US	52697458	R2D2P7DNZBVMBA	0375415416	39707770	Love and Hate in Jamestown: John Smith, Pocahontas, and the Heart of a New Nation	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A New Realist Look at Jamestown	This is an eminently enjoyable and readable update on historical knowledge about the Jamestown colony in Virginia. The story has become burdened by myths and propaganda, and David Price has untangled the tall tales that have surrounded John Smith, Pocahontas, and the livelihood of the colony in its earliest years. Pocahontas doesn't appear in the book as much as you might guess from the subtitle, but she is revealed as an intelligent and magnanimous representative of her people, and she was really just a trusted friend and confidante for Smith. Most of the book centers on Smith's pragmatic and realistic leadership, which was successful in the short term but made him many enemies among his own countrymen. Price detaches the colonial venture from the embellishments of popular history, ignoring folklore about the selfless heroism and religious righteousness of the venture. In fact, like all colonial ventures, Jamestown was a commercial operation for profit, with managers and investors back in England who demanded financial returns regardless of the reality on the ground, while colonists who were really outcasts or speculators were more numerous than the courageous pioneers of American mythology. For example, the \\"starving time\\" of the colony's early years was due less to inclement weather and more to the presence of English \\"gentlemen\\" in the colony who would rather starve than debase themselves with manual labor. This well-written and compact book makes great use of a realist's eye toward history, with many insights in store for the reader. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-09-26
37430:US	52697458	R3PV3DH2HBUJK8	1551925990	172772196	The Devil and the Disappearing Sea: A True Story About the Aral Sea Catastrophe	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Water Water Nowhere	There is a hideous catastrophe going on with the Aral Sea in the former Soviet Union, as what was once the fourth largest lake in the world has been shrinking and is expected to disappear completely in the coming decades. The main culprits are uncontrolled water use, inefficient Soviet irrigation schemes that deplete the nearby rivers, and grand schemes to turn the surrounding desert into an agricultural powerhouse. The most recent problem is bickering between the five newly independent Central Asian Republics that occupy the Aral Sea basin and use its water. Rob Ferguson was involved in an unsuccessful international aid project to change the attitudes of the region's peoples about water use, and to rally public support for saving the sea. Here Ferguson describes the horrendous politics that he and the foreign consultants faced in Central Asia, being subjected to stifling bureaucracy, office politics, infighting, and influence peddling that doomed the project to failure. Short-term political squabbles basically overwhelmed anyone's concern about the long-term environmental catastrophe<br /><br />Ferguson mostly sticks with the drama of the office politics, and while this offers some insight into the cultures of Central Asian people and the horrors of leftover Soviet-style bureaucracy, he mostly under-reports on the sea and its larger ecological issues himself. I was also a bit turned off by Ferguson's running condemnation (sometimes verging on character assassination) of the higher bureaucrats who stifled his efforts, and especially a woman associated with the project who was murdered, only to offhandedly give them credit in the acknowledgments. There are lessons to be found in Ferguson's focus on the cultural and political weaknesses of the region that will forever stifle progress on the issue. But Ferguson's report wastes much of its potential as a powerful magnum opus on water politics and the looming disaster faced by regular people throughout Central Asia. [~doomsdayer520~]~doomsdayer520~]	2005-09-23
39183:US	52697458	R15S5TSWWV3C1N	0375415327	329305840	Unforgivable Blackness: The Rise and Fall of Jack Johnson	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Unforgiving Toughness	Here is a victorious biography from accomplished historian Geoffrey C. Ward. Jack Johnson made sporting history in the early twentieth century by becoming the first black boxing champion of the world, fighting before hostile crowds and enduring despicable racism from the press and public. His victories over white champs were turned into matters of racial identity and societal revenge; while Johnson's habit of flaunting his wealth, playfully ignoring racial strictures, and messing with white women brought down the wrath of the white establishment. Johnson was railroaded on trumped-up charges, and after a prison sentence he spent his latter years in exile or on the vaudeville circuit, unsuccessfully trying to recapture his old glory. Ward has done an extraordinary job of compiling period sources and straightening out the tall tales told by Johnson and everyone around him. Remarkably, this biography is made up almost entirely of direct quotes and documentary evidence with extremely little embellishment necessary from Ward, and the notes and bibliography show an imposing collection of obscure and unexpected sources. Ward also holds no punches in describing the endemic prejudice and hatred that Johnson flamboyantly fought his way through with intelligence and good sportsmanship (one is immediately reminded of Muhammad Ali, and with good reason); along with the sleazy practices of the boxing profession, which seems to have always been infested with gambling fixes and conflicts of interest. Johnson was a fascinating personality, and while his personal behavior wasn't always worthy of so much respect, you can't help but root for him while reading Ward's powerful biography. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-09-22
44113:US	52697458	REIDZYJAKD0XE	0819563366	897901382	The Einstein Intersection	Books	3	11	20	N	N	A Mess of Myths	This undeveloped, inconclusive little novel won some big sci-fi accolades back in the late 60s. But in those days, I would bet that the guys on the award committees were themselves on whatever the writers were on. This book is a little more enjoyable than Delany's tortuous magnum opus \\"Dhalgren,\\" which is about eight times as long but accomplishes even less. Here, Delany has attempted to convert deep thoughts from his travels to the Mediterranean into a forcibly profound and visionary tome on the power of myth. In the distant future, after humans have either gone extinct or migrated from Earth, new alien inhabitants live lives informed by old distorted human myths. There's a little creative potential in that idea, and Delany comes up with a few intriguing tidbits on the power of mythology, and how myths get distorted and misapplied over time. But Delany merely turns the interesting premise into a self-indulgent writing exercise. He awkwardly applies the myths of Orpheus and Billy the Kid to an unfocused plotline about a country bumpkin living a dangerous life of labor, then finding self-awareness in the city, played out by insufficiently weird aliens. Delany's use of outdated pop culture tidbits and pretentious literary references are the signs of an author trying to be taken seriously and to not be pigeonholed into the narrow sci-fi genre. It's too bad that he dragged himself back down with a completely unexceptional story and inconclusive attempts at vision and profundity. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-09-20
47702:US	52697458	R1GXNSRBBI0TGU	0967059844	823604772	The Well-Fed Writer: Financial Self-Sufficiency As a Freelance Writer in Six Months or Less	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A Practical Guide for Success, or At Least Getting Motivated	I have made some money as a freelance writer, and when it comes to trying it out full time, this is one of the most useful guides I've found. That's because Bowerman doesn't bother telling you HOW to write, as that information can be found elsewhere. The advantage of this book is Bowerman's mostly realistic guidelines on making a go at freelance writing, even if you're a bit on the lazy side and are unsure of your abilities as a writer. Thus the book mostly avoids annoying \\"you can do it\\" cheerleading, except for some portions of the first four chapters. Bowerman has sensible ideas for marketing yourself and finding work in surprising places where few would think to look. Bowerman has also solidly defined what a \\"freelance commercial writer\\" really does, as opposed to more conventional journalists and authors.<br /><br />Just note that this book is getting a little old, and (through no real fault of Bowerman's) some of the information is getting outdated. This obviously applies to the technical and software information, but also to the changing job market over time. There has been even more corporate downsizing since this book, creating much more competition for freelancers, and from my own experience I can say it's not as easy getting started as Bowerman believes here. Also, his recommendations are tailored on his own experience as a copywriter in a large metropolitan area with lots of free time and some money to fall back on when getting started in the field. This is not going to be useful for everybody. This book still has the great advantage of real practical advice on motivating yourself and finding true opportunities, rather than the wishful ego-boosting you'll find in many how-to career guides. But in the end, I must make a comment that others here have made &#8211; there is going to be much more work to this endeavor than Bowerman generally implies. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-09-18
53660:US	52697458	R2KEQZ54RC2SB8	1401301347	457785813	When Will Jesus Bring the Pork Chops?	Books	2	8	22	N	N	When Will George Bring the Laughs?	George Carlin apparently ran out of money about a year or so ago. So he went around to publishers and proposed a book that would be an exasperating hodgepodge of boring comedy snippets, misanthropic social observations, condescending non-sequiturs, and incomprehensible anecdotes, all with hardly a laugh to be had by the reader. George Carlin has long been my favorite stand-up comic, as his hard-hitting and subversive explorations of social behavior and belief systems offered both laughs and disconcerting deep thoughts. But after a few uproarious books previously, this one scrapes the bottom of Carlin's barrel. And no, I am not offended by Carlin's unforgiving assault on organized religion; in fact I agree with most of it, or at least I agree with Carlin's thought processes on finding the inconsistencies and errors in faith-based belief systems. This book also has a relatively healthy selection of observations in Carlin's real area of expertise &#8211; linguistics and the popular use of language. But these good points only make up a small portion of the book, and the rest is merely cranky, tiresome, and directionless. For example, large sections of the book consist of lists of so-called comedic thoughts like \\"everything except nine is seventeen. Seventeen is actually six.\\" Huh? Add to this Carlin's inexorable slide into shocking offensiveness rather than enlightening discomfort, which used to be his mark of genius. This book shows a brilliant subversive transforming into a curmudgeonly misanthrope. Hope he makes a little money off it. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-09-15
55111:US	52697458	R1HN4SBAMNI80U	1591023092	468919780	Star Of Gypsies	Books	5	6	6	N	N	All Flame from Tip to Tip	Here Robert Silverberg utilizes a milieu that is surprisingly creative and effective for a mainstream sci-fi novel. The Gypsies (or Rom, their self-given name) are elevated from a persecuted minority in the present world, to the most influential leaders of a future in which humans have spread across the galaxy. They are not just nomads on Earth, but have wandered throughout the Milky Way in a quest to return to their original home in another solar system. Silverberg makes outstanding use of Gypsy folklore here, as well as their view of the world and their place in the human scheme of things. If Silverberg isn't a Gypsy himself, he sure has made himself familiar with their worldview. The book centers on the future King of the Rom, Yakoub, and his travails as he tries to get his widely scattered people back on track, and lead them to the promised land (planet). Yakoub might also have to use his influence and leadership to save all of humanity from the dark ages. This novel seems pretty understated and mellow on the surface. But Silverberg has created a very poignant and perceptive treatise on the power of mythology, ethnicity, leadership, and humanity. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-09-14
59312:US	52697458	R39QOC9IL8FSZO	0895260506	644690342	Men in Black: How the Supreme Court Is Destroying America	Books	1	45	128	N	N	Passive-Regressive Disorder	Today's sore winners will be judged by history with astonishment and disbelief. The far-right controls the Executive and Legislative branches, and has usually had a five-to-four ideological lead in the Judicial branch. Now that GWB gets to fill two vacancies, this grip will get even stronger. But somehow, the dominant neoconservatives still think that everyone else is engaged in a vast conspiracy to keep them down, and they're now trying to apply their philosophy to all thought and opinion in both the present and the past. Here, Levin's every single paragraph can be debunked as narrow neocon ideological interpretation. It sure is easy to win a political argument these days when all you have to do is accuse someone of non-neocon behavior. Levin contends that any Supreme Court Justice at any point in history, who did or said something that doesn't line up with the narrow neocon worldview precisely, is/was an opinionated activist. This is shameless partisan ideology, not constitutional analysis.<br /><br />The fact that Supreme Court Justices are appointed for life means that they are not prone to swaying with public opinion. Whether this is good or bad has been dwelt upon by scholars for decades, and opinions on the matter fill hundreds of volumes. Also, whether the Constitution is \\"static\\" or \\"living\\" (adaptable) is a matter of similar widespread debate. Any small book like this that claims to have the definitive answers on vast issues like these is, by the most basic logic, partial to a particular viewpoint. Levin clings to \\"moral\\" arguments - that is, the neocons' morals which they're convinced everyone subscribes to, both now and in the past. Levin incessantly criticizes the \\"activism\\" of Supreme Court Justices from throughout history, even those who were right wing but not right enough. But there are two glaring omissions &#8211; the Justices who most faithfully parrot the neocon worldview. Clarence Thomas is barely mentioned at all; while Antonin Scalia is continuously lionized as the paragon of correct constitutional interpretation, though Levin miraculously forgets Scalia's tendency for conflicts of interest, such as vacationing with Dick Cheney just days before ruling in Cheney's favor in the Energy Task Force case.<br /><br />This book can be ignored as opinion only, under the guise of selective constitutional interpretations. In just one case of extreme ideological (non-)interpretation, Levin is a big fan of the 14th Amendment (okay so far), but conveniently forgets to describe how this amendment has been abused by corporations to get out of paying taxes or following regulations they don't like. The shaping of public law and policy to enhance the profitability of select corporations is shamefully rampant in the GWB administration (just look at the energy industry), and this is far more damaging to participatory democracy than the non-neocon pronouncements of \\"activist\\" judges. But Levin knows he's just preaching to the choir, using claims of moral outrage and non-neocon rulings by judges to scare the troops into proclaiming him a visionary patriot (though even he should be ashamed of his endorsement in the book's intro from illegal drug abuser Rush Limbaugh). All the while, Levin keeps claiming to know exactly what the Constitution's framers were thinking, about all future issues in American history. That requires tragically narrow thinking in itself. [~doomsdayer520~]tinuously lionized as the paragon of correct constitutional interpretation, though Levin miraculously forgets Scalia's tendency for conflicts of interest, such as vacationing with Dick Cheney just days before ruling in Cheney's favor in the Energy Task Force case. <br /> <br />This book can be ignored as opinion only, under the guise of selective constitutional interpretations. In just one case of extreme ideological (non-)interpretation, Levin is a big fan of the 14th Amendment (okay so far), but conveniently forgets to describe how this amendment has been abused by corporations to get out of paying taxes or following regulations they don't like. The shaping of public law and policy to enhance the profitability of select corporations is shamefully rampant in the GWB administration (just look at the energy industry), and this is far more damaging to participatory democracy than the non-neocon pronouncements of \\"activist\\" judges. But Levin knows he's just preaching to the choir, using claims of moral outrage and non-neocon rulings by judges to scare the troops into proclaiming him a visionary patriot (though even he should be ashamed of his endorsement in the book's intro from illegal drug abuser Rush Limbaugh). All the while, Levin keeps claiming to know exactly what the Constitution's framers were thinking, about all future issues in American history. That requires tragically narrow thinking in itself. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-09-12
61497:US	52697458	R2R2JO33YSEJW0	0671820478	547909597	Golem 100	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Senseeing and Seesensing	This old book doesn't quite have the immortal greatness of Bester's two masterpieces, The Stars My Destination and The Demolished Man. Those two classics deserve to be rediscovered due to their sheer relentless weirdness and Bester's very strange and vivid imagination. After one has digested those two novels, Golem^100 becomes a little easier to handle, though that weirdness is still there in spades. This one does have Bester's most fully-realized and well-crafted characters, as these unique personalities try to battle an interdimensional demon by trying to travel to its world, through the use of weird drugs and esoteric rituals. Bester does incredible things with human (and inhuman) psychology here, as mind expansion starts to cross the lines between psychic realms and even between good and evil. The illustrated portions of the novel, highlighting trips to these dark realms, could be better artistically, but this is a very audacious method of visual storytelling. Note that this book does have some scenes of horrendous brutality and degradation that could be a turn-off for some readers, and a few sections written in stream-of-consciousness or hipster slang are getting pretty dated. But this is another case of Bester's truly cracked and bizarre imagination, and his very small number of novels places him far above sci-fi writers who have written dozens and dozens. But sometimes you really have to wonder what this guy was on... [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-09-11
64133:US	52697458	R1YKL94FY9YVXH	0375422315	176325326	Dam!: Water, Power, Politics, and Preservation in Hetch Hetchy and Yosemite National Park	Books	4	8	10	N	N	The Waters of Empire	Portions of this book will be of great value to anyone interested in the history of the environmental movement, and the shifting political realities that environmentalists have had to deal with over long periods. Simpson explores the history and issues surrounding the Hetch Hetchy dam at Yosemite National Park, which was built to supply San Francisco with water and power even though the site was already protected within the national park. The unsuccessful fight against the dam, which flooded a beautiful valley that was the near-equal to the tremendous Yosemite Valley nearby, was the first major battle conducted by the American environmental movement. Simpson starts with a history of the national park and the twisted politics that resulted in the construction of the dam and its reservoir. This leads to some real insights into environmentalist history in America and the politics of the early 20th century, when the fight for and against the dam took place over several contentious decades.<br /><br />After this enlightening start, the majority of the book covers the politics and issues behind water and power utilities in modern San Francisco. There is much to be learned here, though the specifics on San Francisco's unique challenges and practices become rather tedious and may not be that enlightening for anyone outside of the region. However, one of the great insights of this book is how San Francisco behaves like an empire, controlling far-away colonies for the extraction of resources that it can't obtain locally, especially fresh water. All of this was accomplished through strong-arm political tactics and flaunting the wishes of both the Federal government and millions of affected citizens. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-09-09
69015:US	52697458	R3DYWK4DKY3W3E	0060537639	264716684	1421: The Year China Discovered America	Books	1	239	272	N	N	He Really Believes It...	I was not expecting to believe all the claims in this book, though I was intrigued by the possibility of unexpected new findings about the age of exploration. The Europeans were clearly not the first to sail great distances and discover new lands. You would have once been dismissed as a crackpot for claiming that the Vikings reached the Americas 500 years before Columbus, but that's now accepted history. There's also plenty of proof that the Chinese were regularly sailing to the Middle East and East Africa centuries before Europeans could even leave their own shores. But this book, claiming that the Chinese momentously and influentially circumnavigated the globe in 1421-1423, is a disaster of hyperbolic claims and selective interpretation of historical evidence. That's because Gavin Menzies started with an idea, compiled evidence that seemed to point in the right direction, and convinced himself that he was finding mindboggling breakthroughs. But there is little reason for us to be as convinced as he is.<br /><br />You can see plenty of other reviews (here and elsewhere) debunking the many, many research errors committed by Menzies. Most of these criticisms are more believable to me than Menzies' assertions. On a higher level I'll add that Menzies is an unabashed member of the \\"incredible coincidence\\" school of history. In just a couple of examples, among multitudes, he claims that the presence of Asiatic birds in South America means \\"the conclusion is inescapable\\" of visiting Chinese sailors; or an ice-free depiction of Antarctica on a map \\"confirm[s]\\" that the Chinese were there during a January. Menzies also unquestioningly accepts Chinese court histories as accurate, without considering the possibility that they may be distorted by embellishments or state propaganda. The same goes for his faithful belief in the accuracy of folklore and oral histories. An especially damaging methodological error is that Menzies doesn't question the alleged years of origin of any of the maps he examines, which are of course mindblowingly and impossibly old. The Piri Reis map is the most important example, as there is much scholarly dispute (unacknowledged by Menzies) over whether this map really dates from 1513.<br /><br />There are surely many mysteries about the age of exploration, as compelling pieces of physical and anecdotal evidence give us plenty of reason to doubt accepted histories. But what makes this book such a failure is that Menzies has one grand answer for all unsolved mysteries - a single momentous Chinese expedition. Some other reviewers have made telling comparisons to the farcical \\"Chariots of the Gods\\" which does the same thing, except with spaceships and aliens.aps he examines, which are of course mindblowingly and impossibly old. The Piri Reis map is the most important example, as there is much scholarly dispute (unacknowledged by Menzies) over whether this map really dates from 1513.    There are surely many mysteries about the age of exploration, as compelling pieces of physical and anecdotal evidence give us plenty of reason to doubt accepted histories. But what makes this book such a failure is that Menzies has one grand answer for all unsolved mysteries - a single momentous Chinese expedition. Some other reviewers have made telling comparisons to the farcical \\"Chariots of the Gods\\" which does the same thing, except with spaceships and aliens.	2005-09-07
73809:US	52697458	RNI0L8C1KP4GG	0465017134	560416243	Rights from Wrongs: A Secular Theory of the Origins of Rights	Books	3	3	5	N	N	New Exercises in Right and Wrong	Here Dershowitz embarks on a rather enlightening intellectual exercise in legal philosophy, but I don't think it will have too many practical applications. Dershowitz explores how \\"rights\\" are often misconstrued by the public, and their origins and foundations in law may not be as unalienable as we think. He refutes common conceptions about \\"natural rights\\" and \\"God-given rights\\" as being unsupported by evidence from practical law, philosophy, and history. Nature and religion can be considered human constructs, and perhaps it is time to look at rights as based on secular and humanist moral concerns, rather than try to convince ourselves that they are bestowed by a higher power. I am intrigued by this conception, given my philosophical leanings, and Dershowitz is reasonably convincing in his running contention that rights should not be based on unsupportable concepts from nature and religion, but should be based on real human experience. In short, Dershowitz believes that rights should be constructed to prevent the wrongs committed by humans through history, such as slavery and genocide. Unfortunately, this does not successfully translate into a fully rewarding read, given Dershowitz's diffuse writing style, professorial abstractions, and continuous personal opinions. One damaging example, among many, can be seen in Chapter 20 where Dershowitz offers his harsh opinion of people who don't wish to donate their organs. This book has some reasonably compelling arguments for the informed layperson. But given modern realities of law and politics, the only immediate result of this intellectual exercise will be some philosophical discussions among Dershowitz's network of law professors. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-09-05
74340:US	52697458	R27TM5KD2EF8CY	0375759514	930402386	The Last Ridge: The Epic Story of America's First Mountain Soldiers and the Assault on Hitler's Europe	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Troops Went Over the Mountain	This is a winning piece of WWII history from McKay Jenkins, covering the unique and heroic 10th Mountain Division of the US Army. These guys were media darlings in their day, and the time is right for them to be remembered by history. Some WWII battles were taking place in snowy and mountainous areas in Europe. Allied soldiers, who had little mountain experience and no extreme-environment supplies, were being beaten badly by German soldiers who had centuries-old traditional knowledge of the terrain and conditions. A great network of outdoor sports volunteers and experienced recruits convinced the US Army of the need for a regiment of elite troops that would be victorious in the mountains if they received real skills in mountaineering, rock climbing, skiing, and winter survival. Specialized training and equipment testing took place at a special base in the Colorado Rockies, and the 10th Mountain Division soldiers won decisive victories against Axis positions in the mountains of Italy, and were indispensable in contributing to the overall defeat of the Germans. Jenkins utilizes stirring eyewitness accounts from the soldiers themselves, with plenty of nail-biting battle scenes and insights into the extreme hardships faced by these elite troops in their unique circumstances, as well as all soldiers in general. Great war reporting from Jenkins fleshes out the heroic and historic deeds of the 10th Mountain boys. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-09-04
78338:US	52697458	R1TBTJWWA95JE7	0316004138	277863557	Hayduke Lives!: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Edward and G O L I A T H	This is definitely a worthy sequel to the classic Monkey Wrench Gang, though here Abbey's writing gets rather cranky and hyperbolic. The Gang has reunited, with crazy Hayduke working undercover and in a variety of subversive guises, to pull off the ultimate humungous eco-activist caper of the century. The villain is the hubristically enormous earthmoving machine G O L I A T H, which is literally moving mountains in Abbey's beloved slickrock country, at the behest of industrial and government lackeys. Abbey unleashes an unceasing torrent of his enviro-anarchist philosophy through the mouths of the characters, both the good and bad guys, though this leads to characters who often make huge voluminous speeches, as opposed to believable conversations.<br /><br />Abbey throws in some perceptive criticism of less committed and under-informed nature lovers, while lambasting the typical money-hungry developers. This is great for the thinking reader, but unfortunately the book takes on a rather cranky and unforgiving tone overall. There are some plot problems, with under-elaborated characters such as the Colonel, the presence of the Monkey Wrench Gang book in this book's universe (Abbey does not explain this phenomenon well at all), and the presence of the mysterious Lone Ranger character, who is from a different Abbey book that I thought took place in a different reality and time stream. The shifting behaviors and attitudes of Bonnie and Hayduke in particular are also real problems in character construction. But in the end, if you're in the right frame of mind and of the proper political stance, Abbey's philosophy as contained here is incredibly thought-provoking. And the climax to this novel, in which the Gang pulls off an act of sabotage that's G O L I A T H in size and audacity, is hugely uproarious. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-09-02
83832:US	52697458	R16YIJPHWHJW4V	0060593768	980666451	History on Trial: My Day in Court with David Irving	Books	4	32	49	N	N	Irving Might Sue Us for Our Reviews	Several years ago I read David Irving's book \\"Hitler's War,\\" expecting it to be an informative general history of World War II. I was a bit perplexed when the book barely even mentioned the Final Solution against the Jews, and how it generally whitewashed Hitler's role in this and other Nazi atrocities. I didn't dwell on it at the time, and only learned later that Irving is an unabashed Hitler apologist, who has been mostly discredited as a historian, and who is prone to conspiracy theorizing and suing his critics. This book is by a credible historian that Irving sued for libel, Deborah Lipstadt, who published convincing evidence that he is a \\"holocaust denier.\\" This book covers the trial that, due to the procedures of British law, became not just a defense against libel accusations but a debate on the history of the holocaust itself.<br /><br />Lipstadt and her publisher emerged victorious, due to the sheer weight of the evidence from history, proving that it was not libel to make the extremely obvious claim that Irving is a \\"holocaust denier.\\" That certainly makes this book worthwhile, but there are some problems with Lipstadt's reporting on the trial. I agree with some other reviewers in that she is quite self-centered, describing how she kept second-guessing her lawyers and the judge almost every day. She frequently criticizes the judge for treating Irving's court tactics in an evenhanded or impartial fashion, as if it were not his job to follow courtroom procedures in a respectable way. Lipstadt also often complains about the unfavorable differences between British and American law, which all turns out to be little more than melodrama, because she already announced at the start of the book that she would eventually win the case.<br /><br />More fundamentally, Lipstadt recounts the trial testimony to such a detailed extent that this book becomes (inadvertently, I assume) a verbose condemnation of Irving's views and conclusions. This detracts from the book's supposed theme of justice, to a painfully obvious rebuttal of Irving's work. This was not entirely necessary because Irving's errors speak for themselves, as seen in the outcome of the case. There are some interesting allusions to the differences between selective interpretation (Irving) and convergence of evidence (everyone else) in the art of history, but this is mostly lost under Lisptadt's frequent self-aggrandizement about the righteousness of her struggle. Lipstadt did a great thing for truth and justice by fighting off Irving's desperate attacks, but there could have been better ways to report on this important trial. [~doomsdayer520~]supposed theme of justice, to a painfully obvious rebuttal of Irving's work. This was not entirely necessary because Irving's errors speak for themselves, as seen in the outcome of the case. There are some interesting allusions to the differences between selective interpretation (Irving) and convergence of evidence (everyone else) in the art of history, but this is mostly lost under Lisptadt's frequent self-aggrandizement about the righteousness of her struggle. Lipstadt did a great thing for truth and justice by fighting off Irving's desperate attacks, but there could have been better ways to report on this important trial. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-08-30
87192:US	52697458	R259GREQK2C3A0	0375714669	373105656	Persepolis 2: The Story of a Return (Pantheon Graphic Novels)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Unique Memoir in an Understated Style	Marjane Satrapi has an interesting life story to tell, and she does it very well here in the under-appreciated graphic strip format. Satrapi was born to a progressive family in Iran, and when she was a teenager during Iran's Islamic Revolution, her parents sent her off to school in Europe, where there were certainly better life choices for a young woman. Here Satrapi illustrates her travails in Europe as a foreigner from an unpopular country, followed by her return to Iran where she was then treated with suspicion for having too many free thoughts and Western tendencies. Satrapi's, artistic style is simplistic and pretty understated technically, though she is excellent at capturing facial expressions, and her style is perfectly suited for focusing the reader's attention on the story. The narrative here does slip into moping and melodrama in places, though Satrapi's coverage of how a free-thinking young person can be oppressed by culture, religion, war, and prejudice is stirring and evocative. Unlike many memoirs from boring people with typical lives, Satrapi's story is very unique and deserves to be told. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-08-28
89544:US	52697458	R3PG5WRBRSLS1Y	1594862958	583837662	New Rules: Polite Musings from a Timid Observer	Books	2	8	11	N	N	A Crank Gets Cranky About Cranks	Bill Maher wastes lots of paper here as he piles on snippets of observational humor that are usually just a few sentences in length. The concept is \\"new rules\\" for a more levelheaded and less stuck-up American society, based on Maher's comedically critical and cranky style. Well here's a new rule &#8211; publishers should not charge $24.95 for a book that even the president could finish off in a couple of hours. Most everyone else here will base their review on whether or not they agree with Maher's politics, and will probably do so very loudly and self-righteously. Well I happen to be in the same realm of thought as Maher &#8211; trying to think independently under the oppressive Neoconservative control of language and opinion, while also being disgusted with the directionless Democrats. The problem here is that Maher's really in-depth and organized thoughts on such matters only appear once in a while in the book, as the quick snippets occasionally give way to more biting extended essays of a page or more in length. I especially liked Maher's hard-hitting looks at stem cell research, fossil fuel economics, and media trends. But most of this book is rapid-fire sound bite observations that are often funny but mostly thin and inconsequential, ranging from Maher's opinion on bikini waxing to his annoyance at some room service operator for not knowing what the soup of the day was. Maher's political satire and observational humor have been really brilliant elsewhere. But this particular book doesn't get much deeper than a mud puddle. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-08-27
91478:US	52697458	RQB68MMVG4X8	0618341234	762067747	The Best American Nonrequired Reading 2004 (The Best American Series)	Books	3	16	28	N	N	What Exactly Is "Nonrequired" Anyway?	Most of the copious volumes from the Best American series are formidable collections in categories that you can really sink your teeth into. You know what you're getting with the Best American writing about Travel, Science and Nature, Music, Mysteries, or even Recipes. But this \\"Nonrequired\\" series is either a vanity project for cooler-than-thou editor Dave Eggers, or a dead letter office for orphaned submissions and quirky leftovers. So what does \\"Nonrequired\\" really mean as a category? Is it supposed to mean writing from alternative publications or unorthodox sources? That's partially true here, but not entirely, because this volume has submissions from New York Times, Atlantic Monthly, GQ, and Esquire. Is \\"Nonrequired\\" supposed to mean cutting-edge styles or offbeat subject matter? With a few noteworthy exceptions, this is not really the case either, because the vast majority of submissions here are completely typical short stories that are often perfectly competent (though sometimes not), but are not out of the ordinary in any literary sense. This is especially curious because there is already a Best American Short Stories collection. Is \\"Nonrequired\\" supposed to feature writers from alternative lifestyles, immigrant cultures, or disadvantaged social conditions? That is the case for some of the submissions here, but this also is not consistently the case.<br /><br />Most awkwardly, this mostly fictional collection has two observational essays and four journalistic articles. Ironically, the four non-fiction articles are the best items here because they deal with interesting subjects, but their placement seems arbitrary and inconsistent. And finally, this book gets off to a horrendous start, with Eggers' so-very-not-funny foreword, and the stultifying introduction by Viggo Mortensen, who acts far better than he writes. So what's the point of having all these writings in this one volume, with the poorly defined category trying to group them together? Maybe it's so Eggers and his group of teen interns with big thoughts can feel like they've served the world, by compiling material that's apparently cool enough for us because it's cool enough for them. But one person's cool is another person's cold. And that's when you can even figure out what the category is supposed to mean [~doomsdayer520~]so Eggers and his group of teen interns with big thoughts can feel like they've served the world, by compiling material that's apparently cool enough for us because it's cool enough for them. But one person's cool is another person's cold. And that's when you can even figure out what the category is supposed to mean [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-08-26
95487:US	52697458	R3E4P7GN4PXS5M	1555915272	835121190	The Enduring Wilderness: Protecting Our Natural Heritage through the Wilderness Act (Speaker's Corner Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Where Man Himself Is a Visitor	This is an essential primer for all those wishing to learn more about the legislative and legalistic aspects of conservation activism. Doug Scott analyzes the history and politics behind statutory wilderness protection at the federal level, which culminated in the momentous Wilderness Act of 1964. I am proud to be from the same state (Pennsylvania) as two of the leading lights behind that legislation &#8211; Howard Zahniser and Rep. John P. Saylor. Believe it or not, Saylor was a Republican congressman, indicating that conservation has not always been the stark divisive issue that it is today. In the first half of this book, Scott gives a history of wilderness activism in the United States, from colonial times through the great influential figures of John Muir and Aldo Leopold, and how scattershot protection of valuable areas led to the need for the structured Act of Congress in 1964.<br /><br />The second half of the book, starting with Chapter 5, gets more interesting as Scott turns to the modern politics of conservation that have been embodied by citizen requests for protection of their valued wild areas. We learn that every president has approved additions to America's protected wilderness, even GWB, and that this has always been accomplished through bipartisan compromise. As proven in poll after poll, the majority of Americans, from all walks of life and political stances, favor the protection of wilderness. This knowledge is a valuable side effect of this book, in that Scott shows us that the American government has always had a strong sense of compromise and pragmatism, which has proven to be more effective than the divisiveness and narrow ideological posturing that you might think have swamped government processes, thanks to loudmouthed pundits and sound bite media coverage. I have met Doug Scott at a speaking engagement, and I feel that anyone who loves wilderness as an American tradition should become familiar with his works. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-08-23
97736:US	52697458	R13RD33RUVBBMD	0375703764	383727435	House of Leaves	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Hallway to Hell	While occasionally self-indulgent and difficult to follow, this is a relentlessly fascinating experimental powerhouse from Danielewski. It's a manic-depressive and obsessive-compulsive approach to the act of writing, as well as the deliberate layering and layout of ideas. Multiple non-linear realities nearly crush the reader's mind, and the audaciously visual layout of the text is a trip. The narrator Johnny Truant has helped clean out the apartment of a old deceased gentleman named Zampano, who had apparently spent years and years researching an underground movie that supposedly documented a Lovecraftian interdimensional haunted house. Truant next spends years of his own organizing Zampano's obsessive research, learning that the movie probably doesn't exist (at least in this reality) and the events it documents probably didn't happen, though the whole endeavor somehow brings a supernatural madness to Truant as it did to Zampano. This novel is so full of hidden clues, inside information, and shifting realities that I'm not surprised there's a cult devoted to analyzing the dark depths of Danielewski's ideas.<br /><br />I also noticed an intellectual strain to this novel that I don't think too many other reviewers have caught. To truly see this, you would have to be a disillusioned graduate student who found the educational endeavor to be little more than stultified intellectual obtuseness. Here we find that Zampano has overanalyzed the mysterious film with vast and voluminous obscure references that are a sheer parody of the university intellectual method, with its detached and condescending armchair over-analysis, big statements on miniscule phenomena, and sycophantic name-dropping. Danielewski has also made use of obtuse intellectual abstractions that you would only ever hear professors talking about, such as semiotics, epistemology, and plenty of other postmodern gibberish, as the haunted house embodies the bizarre madness that would ensue if such egghead concepts physically existed (in whatever reality). As an unsatisfied ex-grad student myself, I found Danielewski's running brain-drain parody here creepingly hysterical. Add to that the book's general observations on death, mental illness, and perceptions of reality, and we have a rollicking, careening brainmelter. This is surely a difficult and even exasperating read, but it will probably lodge itself in your mind for a long time to come. [~doomsdayer520~]ts physically existed (in whatever reality). As an unsatisfied ex-grad student myself, I found Danielewski's running brain-drain parody here creepingly hysterical. Add to that the book's general observations on death, mental illness, and perceptions of reality, and we have a rollicking, careening brainmelter. This is surely a difficult and even exasperating read, but it will probably lodge itself in your mind for a long time to come. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-08-22
104079:US	52697458	RL1IIXX6CDRYT	0865477248	506162225	The Dark Heart of Italy: An Incisive Portrait of Europe's Most Beautiful, Most Disconcerting Country	Books	3	5	11	N	N	Outsider's Darkside	I have never traveled to Italy and probably never will. But I did approach this book with a scholarly interest in the corrupt politics of Silvio Berlusconi, who has come up in my studies of communications and political science. Tobias Jones, in one substantial chapter of this book, outlines the bizarre corporate cronyism of Berlusconi and his associates. We Americans could learn a few things about how rampant rightist ideology and unchecked corporate influence have damaged the democracy of Italy. Otherwise, Jones appears to be consciously writing an anti-travel book that does not flow very smoothly, and really shows the hyperbole and judgmental tendencies of an outsider who thinks he's been in the county long enough to understand it. (Jones is a British journalist who had lived in Italy for just four years.)<br /><br />Jones does a pretty good job describing the inherent friendliness and zest for life of the Italian people, but doesn't quite succeed in separating such compliments from his condemnations of the country's propensity for stifling bureaucracy, lawlessness, and political cronyism. Also, Jones is surely in over his head when he talks about comparative literature and aesthetics, and his continual philosophical and literary references are tiresome. Meanwhile, there is a very annoying production issue with this book. Historical investigations and political reporting, in which Tobias writes in a different journalistic voice and mostly copies from other sources, are printed entirely in italics and often last for ten pages or more. This may sound minor, but multiple pages of continuous italics make for a real drag on the reading experience. As Jones contends here, standard travel books, that focus on scenery and wine drinking, surely sugarcoat many of the darker realities of Italian politics and culture. But this uneven book is not quite the solution. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-08-19
105020:US	52697458	RNVBPHGK62WMP	0520243846	226407355	Disposable People: New Slavery in the Global Economy	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An Evil That Is Still With Us	Sadly, it is not true that human slavery was abolished back in the 1800s, and in fact there are still millions of slaves in the world. There are slaves working in third world brothels, mines, farms, and sweatshops. Even some domestic servants in Western nations are technically enslaved. Here Kevin Bales explains how this is a new and modernized type of slavery. The old \\"classic\\" slavery, in which masters outwardly and legally owned other people, has disappeared around the world, except for in the oddly backward nation of Mauritania. The new slavery is not based on ethnic or religious subjugation and punishment, but is the outcome of globalized economics, as certain industries inevitably gravitate toward near-zero cost labor.<br /><br />Most modern slaves are victims of \\"debt bondage,\\" in which businessmen or middlemen make poor and desperate people work off their debts, but through fraudulent accounting and trickery make it impossible for the debts to be paid off, therefore gaining forced and unpaid labor. This phenomenon is tragically common in many nations, and tens of millions of people are subjected to hopeless lives of economic subjugation. Bales explores this modern slavery in several nations that are trying to convince the world that it doesn't happen within their borders, or try to justify this bondage with dissembling arguments that are disgustingly similar to those used by the old Southern plantation owners in America.<br /><br />Bales does a pretty good job of describing how real, quantifiable economics and globalization processes bring this human tragedy about. However, this aspect of his analysis could be strengthened, to make a more effective argument with policy makers. I suggest that Bales team up with a reputable political scientist or economist to make this structural argument stronger. Some international readers may also take issue with Bales' introductory explanations of the cultures on which he is reporting. Statements about how Thailand's culture totally condones that nation's horrific sex industry, or how Pakistan's social structure inevitably results in internecine violence, are most likely generalizations that could be fleshed out with more sensitive research. But overall those are minor flaws. Bales gives you a very disconcerting feeling about the state of modern humanity, and about how slavery has played a part in the manufacture of many of your consumer items and the bottom line of companies in which you may have invested. [~doomsdayer520~]culture totally condones that nation's horrific sex industry, or how Pakistan's social structure inevitably results in internecine violence, are most likely generalizations that could be fleshed out with more sensitive research. But overall those are minor flaws. Bales gives you a very disconcerting feeling about the state of modern humanity, and about how slavery has played a part in the manufacture of many of your consumer items and the bottom line of companies in which you may have invested. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-08-18
111432:US	52697458	R1WZD59VHW6NXP	0765301792	346637079	Gathering the Bones	Books	2	8	12	N	N	Horror Dead and Buried	This book's back cover proclaims that \\"horror may never be the same.\\" Well if this predominantly mediocre collection is any indication, that statement is unfortunately accurate. Perhaps modern writers, trapped with the rest of us in our media-saturated society, have lost the ability to be truly scary. Personally I've never read anything more frightening than ol' Edgar Allan Poe and H.P. Lovecraft; and even Stephen King, Clive Barker, or Dean Koontz, when each was in his prime, could deliver serious thrills and chills. But this collection, of what currently passes for \\"horror,\\" proves that it may be time to nail the coffin shut on this genre for good.<br /><br />Granted, of the 34 short stories here, there's a smattering of winners. Robert Devereaux offers a quite disconcerting look at our society's obsession with beauty, while Michael Marshall Smith, Stephen Dedman, and Adam L.G. Nevill show an affinity for inherent human evil that's healthily influenced by the classics. Still-dependable Ray Bradbury even supplies a whimsically dreadful update on the Grim Reaper. There are a few other stories here that can keep the reader perfectly interested even if they're not particularly scary, with well-drawn themes and characters.<br /><br />But otherwise, the majority of selections here illustrate, embarrassingly, everything that's wrong with current \\"horror\\" writing (plus the editing of collections such as this). I'll make an example of Lisa Tuttle. Her story features a woman who is suspicious of her boyfriend's secrecy, so she goes through his stuff, learns he's a murderer, and that's pretty much the end. Oh the horror! Aaron Sterns and Chris Lawson/Simon Brown deliver stories that frightfully showcase human cruelty or struggle, only to have stock undead creatures or supernatural processes pop up in the final paragraphs, as unsatisfying explanations for man's inhumanity. These so-called surprises are actually far more predictable than they are scary. Several other tales are so genre-deficient that you wonder why they're even in a \\"horror\\" collection, those by Melanie Tem and Fruma Klass being prime examples. This collection is a failure in so many respects that it's almost scary. But not in a good way. [~doomsdayer520~]are so genre-deficient that you wonder why they're even in a \\"horror\\" collection, those by Melanie Tem and Fruma Klass being prime examples. This collection is a failure in so many respects that it's almost scary. But not in a good way. [~doomsdayer520~] <br />	2005-08-15
114110:US	52697458	R8C0N25L1J4TS	0446603775	972640933	Dawn (Xenogenesis, Bk. 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Dawning of Xenogenesis	Here, Octavia Butler utilizes her brilliantly melancholy and creepy atmospheres to explore the relations between humans and future alien visitors. That works brilliantly in this book, but things falter a bit when Butler starts exploring the relationships between the humans of the story. After a nuclear war, the lead character Lilith awakens from suspended animation to find that she was one of the few human survivors to be rounded up by an alien race, and who want her to be a leader of a scraggly group of people who will re-colonize the wasted Earth. The aliens also wish to exchange genetic material and create a hybrid race for their own barely comprehensible purposes. Butler has created eerily weird and fascinatingly inhuman aliens with the Oankali, who are so different from humans that the first half of the book, in which Lilith tries to communicate and understand such fundamentally different creatures, has all the earmarks of profound and visionary speculative fiction. Unfortunately, most of the second half of the book becomes a pretty typical \\"Lord of the Flies\\" scenario, as Lilith tries to lead a group of human characters who are mostly constructed poorly, and exist only to give rather unsatisfying and predictable illustrations of human nature. This book&#8217;s non-ending is also a bit of a let-down, as the story here is reasonably self-contained but so obviously leads into a sequel that many loose ends are left behind. But still, Octavia Butler&#8217;s supreme imagination and emotionally effective writing put her in the elite of modern fiction writers, of any genre. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-08-13
115789:US	52697458	R38OQJ4AHRU2HH	0375507493	318684906	What Should I Do With My Life: The True Story of People Who Answered the Ultimate Question	Books	3	16	18	N	N	Some Inspiring Stories, But of Limited Usefulness	This book has great potential and the author really means well, but things keep falling into the sappy world of bookstore self-help that Bronson says he's trying to avoid. Bronson presents the stories of dozens of people, some inspiring and some less so, who really did decide to find their true calling in life. Some of these stories can be inspirational for those who are at similar crossroads, like myself (that's why I decided to read the book). Unfortunately, the entire endeavor becomes rather unfocused, as Bronson can't stop talking about his own quest for self-direction, under the guise of reporting on other people. Bronson also says throughout the book, and especially in the introduction, that he does not wish to give advice or crank out self-help mantras. Well he does just that throughout the book anyway, writing about how he gave real advice to his subjects (while telling us how uncomfortable he felt the whole time), and bloating the book with especially convoluted and rambling philosophy about finding yourself. The book could have been a greater success if the people profiled were left to tell their stories with less padding from Bronson.<br /><br />And though I've been praising the real people covered in the book, on average their stories show some variety of situations and outlook, but a general lack of real struggle. Everyone battled personal demons, to be sure, but only a few of the dozens of people profiled here had to struggle with real-world unemployment, bankruptcy, or severe personal trauma. Besides those few, most of the folks here were able to quit jobs they hated and open up their own businesses, go to college, or take extended vacations of self-discovery. Well guess what - that all takes lots of money, and many people reading this book won't be able to identify with that kind of opportunity. And while Bronson keeps saying that he wants to paint a bigger emotional and spiritual picture of what one should do with one's life, this book really boils down to people deciding to change careers. Many of the interview subjects truly found happiness this way, but we're still stuck with our culture's habit of defining ourselves by our jobs. This all worked for Bronson and his subjects, but I think what he rambles on about here has limited usefulness for most people, who are stuck in grittier realities. [~doomsdayer520~]s down to people deciding to change careers. Many of the interview subjects truly found happiness this way, but we're still stuck with our culture's habit of defining ourselves by our jobs. This all worked for Bronson and his subjects, but I think what he rambles on about here has limited usefulness for most people, who are stuck in grittier realities. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-08-12
120050:US	52697458	RNF33W671NUC2	0374514313	848827429	Encounters with the Archdruid: Narratives About a Conservationist and Three of His Natural Enemies	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hitched to Everything Else in the Universe	This classic collection of three narratives from 1971 is essential to anyone interested in the history of the conservation movement, and the basic beliefs and tenets of environmentalism. John McPhee set up meetings between David Brower, then the prime exemplar of the passionate environmentalist and fundamental conservationist, with three of his supposed natural enemies. Accompanying McPhee and Brower on three separate outdoor adventures were a pro-extraction geologist, a space-consuming real estate developer, and the dam-happy commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation. McPhee wrote with a great understated style that allowed the participants to speak for themselves. In a quite fascinating fashion, Brower and his antagonists usually figured out ways to bury the hatchet and find common ground, or at least to become respectful and good-natured adversaries. The non-conservationist \\"enemies\\" turned out to be not as disrespectful of nature as one would suppose, while Brower was sometimes able to agree with some of the benefits behind development.<br /><br />McPhee also sprinkles some general biographical information about Brower into the three narratives, along with a basic exposition of his general belief system. Hence, we can clearly see the inconsistencies in his philosophy, and the cracks in his supposedly unyielding opposition to development and the uses of nature by man. The most valuable aspect of this book is that we can see how the issue of environmentalism is far from the black-and-white dichotomy that it appears to be, when you listen to modern ideological pundits and the simplifications of the press. It's entirely possible for developers to enjoy the great outdoors and for environmentalists to see some of the benefits of (sustainable) development. In these modern times, this old book is more eye-opening than ever. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-08-10
121116:US	52697458	R34GPABNUA5REN	0553380966	199085075	The Diamond Age: Or, a Young Lady's Illustrated Primer (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Anfractuous Transpicuous	This huge novel does tend to drift at times, especially when Neal Stephenson starts creating and exploring the new technologies of his future society. But aside from that relatively minor quibble, this is a powerfully creative and fully realized look at the intersection of high tech and humanity in the near future.  In short, a rich aristocrat has commissioned a nanotech engineer to invent an interactive book that melds with the inner thoughts of the reader, with the goal of helping his granddaughter think independently in a tightly constricted future society. A copy of the book is stolen and falls into the hands of a forlorn and abused little girl named Nell, who utilizes the interactive technology to escape her dire environment, realize her full potential, and eventually to inspire a revolution made up of thousands of abandoned Chinese girls who have utilized more copies of the book to build meaningful lives in a society that has abandoned them. Stephenson's greatest achievement here is his ruminations on how super-advanced nanotechnology and worldwide networks will only further restrict and enslave humanity, unless revolutionary thinkers can put humanity back on the winning side. Meanwhile, this book has some surprisingly provocative explorations of the potential social evils of the coming age, especially in regards to our potential future society's treatment of young girls. Sometimes it's difficult to keep track of all the plot elements and characters in this epic book, but it's definitely a fun and thought-provoking read. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-08-09
130450:US	52697458	R2NIWQ446286C8	0393312836	483124263	A Clockwork Orange	Books	5	1	1	N	N	this writer moodge went sort of bezoomny	Most fans of subversive literature (and film) probably already know what this book is about. Of course the story is casually violent, while the bizarre invented slang spoken by the goofy classical music-loving and philosophical young hoodlum gives the reading of the book a vaguely surreal and sarcastic quality. That's all fairly well known, so it helps to consider the themes on violence and state control that Anthony Burgess explores here. Alex the nogoodnick is weaned off of his personal violence when the authorities force him to watch state-sponsored violence, so how is the state less morally corrupt than the individual? The idea that violence can supposedly stop violence is probably the most brutally ironic theme considered here. Meanwhile, an average schmuck is used by competing political factions for their own small gains, and in the process nearly loses his humanity - while the state gets more and more control thanks to timid citizens who are willing to give up liberty for security. Sound familiar? Some parts of this classic novel are a bit worn out and are not aging too well, but you have to admit that it really makes you think. If you can viddy it. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-08-04
135259:US	52697458	R3K04DDMQRGLHV	0375706488	419327837	Beyond Belief: Islamic Excursions Among the Converted Peoples	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Beyond Mere Travel Writing	Here, the great traveler and cultural observer V.S. Naipaul travels to lands in which non-Arab peoples were historically converted to Islam. This offers many insights into how adherents see their faith and their place in the larger Islamic order. Naipaul's modus operandi is to dispense with predictable travel writing based on scenery and touring, and to illuminate the lands visited by telling the stories of the ordinary people met along the way. This method gives us intriguing looks at Indonesia, where a hybrid version of Islam, influenced by old Buddhist and Hindu cultural traditions, encourages local adherents to strive for their own type of Islamic renaissance; Iran, with the after-effects of the inconclusive and poorly realized Islamic revolution of 1979; Pakistan, which still shows political and social damage from the 1947 religious and cultural partition from India; and Malaysia, where Islam has united the native Malays in the face of the large Chinese immigrant population.<br /><br />One problem with this book is that Naipaul is revisiting areas he previously wrote about back in the late 1970s, with the goal of providing a modern update on these lands. But given his habit of recounting his old reports and comparing them to new reports, it is sometimes difficult for the reader to tell which decade is being discussed. Meanwhile, Naipaul's focus on the people and their stories definitely makes the histories and cultures of these lands come alive, and that is Naipaul's greatest distinction. But in this book, dozens of biographies just pile up one after the other, as one person's memoirs end quietly and are replaced by those of yet another person. That makes this book seem more like a loose collection with no beginning, middle, or end. Hence, the reader gets little sense of any authoritative conclusions to the points being made about these interesting and often trouble-prone lands. {~doomsdayer520~]	2005-08-02
141323:US	52697458	R2U2EQ0XOPF9JG	0515138150	81264330	Cravings	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Supernatural Creatures Supposedly Cooler than Human Boyfriends	This is a handy little compendium if you're interested in sampling the works of these four authors, but I suspect that their best works can be found elsewhere. These stories can be considered examples of the modern trend among women writers to treat vampires, werewolves, and other stock horror creatures not as embodiments of pure evil and the dark side, but as representations of forbidden passion, and as lust objects that are more exciting and dangerous than boring human men. So of course this is not horror, or at least it's the watered down and lusted up current excuse for that genre.<br /><br />Out of the four novellas here, I most enjoyed MaryJanice Davidson's \\"Dead Girls Don't Dance,\\" which presents a romance between a dumb jock and a cranky undead young woman that's about as believable as you could hope for, with a good amount of sarcastic humor. Meanwhile, Rebecca York's \\"Burning Moon\\" is a pretty good suspense tale with interestingly complex characters. \\"Originally Human\\" by Eileen Wilks is so-so on the supernatural elements and tiresome in the plot, leading to a pretty indifferent impression. And finally, this book is supposed to be built around the lead story by the famous Laurell K. Hamilton, but fans have complained that the \\"novella\\" contained here is merely an excerpt from one of her Anita Blake novels. That's painfully obvious here, as the \\"story\\" begins and ends inconclusively, and features characters and plot elements that are so under-defined that they have obviously been introduced more fully elsewhere. That damages the true usefulness of this compilation, which ends up being half good when all is said and done. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-07-30
145042:US	52697458	R21MLGT3IBLUX0	0142003425	338299274	Secrets: A Memoir of Vietnam and the Pentagon Papers	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Unveiling the Arrogance of Power	It's amazing how many revelations about mismanagement of the Indochina Wars have come to light in the decades since, and this monumental memoir from Daniel Ellsberg makes plain the reprehensible tactics of five presidential administrations, who were driven much more by unyielding ideology than by realistic strategies or moral considerations. Ellsberg was the longtime government insider who leaked the 7,000 pages of the \\"Pentagon Papers\\" to the press in 1971, and was put on trial for revealing top-secret government files and documents. Ellsberg had worked for years as a researcher and analyst of military strategies, for both the Federal Government and a private think tank, and hence became supremely knowledgeable on concealed government manipulations and the implications of policies that were kept hidden from the public and the press.<br /><br />You can't find a more qualified authority on what was really going on in Vietnam, and Ellsberg is far above character assassinations about being a crackpot with a score to settle, who should not be taken seriously. The sheer breath and depth of knowledge presented here speaks for itself, and should raise major qualms with anyone who feels that America's leaders aren't always right. As a conscientious American who had started out in favor of the war in principle, Ellsberg faced an ethical crisis that was far bigger than laws that were enacted to ensure government secrecy. Here he describes how his decision to leak the papers was not based on simple pacifism, but on a much deeper philosophical understanding of the true meaning of democracy - not obscured parliamentary power by the Executive branch but transparent legislative power by the people - and moral concerns over the cruelty and illegality of the war operations themselves.<br /><br />While the first half of this book is a little dry with a fairly standard war history, the second half really picks up as Ellsberg describes his ethical dilemmas, his willingness to be prosecuted for what he thought the public needed to know, and his trials and tribulations with government goons and the bizarre paranoia and criminality of the Nixon administration. While Ellsberg tends toward self-aggrandizement at times, here we learn that his trial indirectly led to the Watergate revelations, and his actions had a prime influence on finally ending the war. Ellsberg is far more of an American hero than anyone who has an unyielding faith in the supposed rightness of their government's actions. [~doomsdayer520~]prosecuted for what he thought the public needed to know, and his trials and tribulations with government goons and the bizarre paranoia and criminality of the Nixon administration. While Ellsberg tends toward self-aggrandizement at times, here we learn that his trial indirectly led to the Watergate revelations, and his actions had a prime influence on finally ending the war. Ellsberg is far more of an American hero than anyone who has an unyielding faith in the supposed rightness of their government's actions. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-07-28
149219:US	52697458	R3T2JI60GB1WX2	0802140521	757418560	The Inquisitors' Manual	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Dictatorship Dementia	This Portuguese novel is a mesmerizing and surrealist look at an obscure episode of history, though it's rather drifty and inconclusive. The real-life dictatorship in Portugal of Admiral Salazar (1932-1968) is examined through the life and relations of his self-righteous lackey Senhor Francisco, who has become old and washed up, bitter about being passed over as Salazar's successor, and is now wasting away in a demeaning nursing home. Each chapter is narrated by different characters who reminisce, often bitterly or sarcastically, about Francisco's brutal rise and fall. This includes his neglected family members, abused employees, pampered but slipping aristocrats, and various sycophants and opponents. Antonio Lobo Antunes uses this expository method to delve into the trials and tribulations of people living under a dictatorship, and this is especially interesting when it reveals the harsh class segregation of Portugal during that period, with the upper class feeling entitled to the dictatorship's favor, oppressing the working classes, and complaining about more equitable social developments that they're too lazy to stop.<br /><br />The thoughts of these types of characters, as well as underlings whose lives were damaged by Francisco's brutal treatment, are the true treasures of this novel, as we learn how average lives are distorted by bizarre politics, by way of real historical trends in Portugal. But the underlying difficulty of the book is that it is all in the form of fictional confessionals, with very little plot for the reader to hang onto, in favor of personal developments from an increasingly unwieldy cast of characters. Also, Antunes presents each character's thoughts in a non-linear, stream-of-consciousness style that surely represents the inner thought processes of confused and angry real people. The problem is that every single person thinks in this same style, making the book rather repetitive and drifty. Antunes' unique writing style and intriguing look at the human side of Portuguese history and politics are certainly fascinating and are likely to keep you interested. However, with the voluminous character-driven approach, you'll get the feeling that the novel isn't really leading anywhere conclusive. [~doomsdayer520~]e human side of Portuguese history and politics are certainly fascinating and are likely to keep you interested. However, with the voluminous character-driven approach, you'll get the feeling that the novel isn't really leading anywhere conclusive. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-07-25
152856:US	52697458	R16DMTPCF3AIL4	0618224165	656193336	Nature Noir: A Park Ranger's Patrol in the Sierra	Books	5	45	48	N	N	The Ranger's Heart of Darkness	If you think being a forest ranger is just leading happy people on hikes and lazily watching for fires, think again. Hopefully not all state and national parks present as much danger as California's Auburn State Recreation Area, where Jordan Fisher Smith has collected many years of experience in the dark side of human communion with nature. In America's natural preserves, rangers are getting increasingly caught up in law enforcement scenarios and saving under-prepared suburbanites from nature's challenges. With a ruminative and fast-moving writing style, Smith describes various episodes in which he or his coworkers had to deal with anarchic gold miners along the American River (a few hardy souls still think the gold rush prospector's life is possible), gangsters from a hidden meth lab, gun-toting drifters living in the campgrounds, all types of fights and domestic disputes among park users, and even a woman being killed by a mountain lion.<br /><br />Mixed into these narratives are discussions by Smith on the true day-to-day life of a California ranger, which features a lot of paperwork as well as hazards both natural and manmade. Smith also embodies a more insidious natural hazard, as he briefly describes his battle with advanced Lyme disease. There is a fair amount of environmental politics and conservationist history in the book, mostly applied to discussions of decades-long plans to dam the American River in the park for flood control and irrigation. This gave Smith and his coworkers a strange sense of risking their lives to protect a condemned and temporary landscape, and this brings on some pretty good philosophy of the civilization vs. wilderness stripe. The end result of all these varied stories, from Smith's direct experience, is a book that offers a surprisingly original mix of true crime, naturalist philosophy, and social observation. It turns out that a park ranger's life can be pretty wild, in all senses of the word. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-07-22
155499:US	52697458	R14810JQPPGF4Y	1555662862	9698624	Black Sun: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Wilderness and Loneliness	This is probably Edward Abbey's least political work, and the cranky old desert conservationist came up with a surprisingly emotional and bittersweet love story. The main character has escaped his painful past by taking up a very lonely job at a fire tower near the Grand Canyon, getting closer to nature and further from other people, as a way to battle his demons. He then unexpectedly falls in love with a younger woman who is working at the park, but can't figure out how to make her part of his lonely existence, which may or may not be bringing him true happiness. But in the end, he has loneliness forced upon him again anyway, as the girl disappears back into nature herself. One problem with this novel is the stilted interpersonal dialogue, which was never Abbey's strength, while he was even less adept at building a believable romance. But on the good side, this novel, based to an unclear degree on Abbey's true experiences, is a remarkably emotional exploration of the true loneliness that can be found when one communes with nature for the long haul, and how this loneliness can both lift and crush one's spirits. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-07-21
157020:US	52697458	R1IGG1UU7JQ1EG	1555534872	182601681	Like Water on Stone: The Story of Amnesty International	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Spotty Coverage of an Important Movement	This book is rather difficult to figure out, and ultimately it doesn't do justice to its titular organization. Despite the title, this is not really a history of Amnesty International. Instead, it is more of a compendium of investigative journalism towards the subject of human rights in the second half of the twentieth century, using examples of problem areas in which Amnesty made some impact. In fact, it becomes apparent that Jonathan Power is merely reporting on human rights episodes that he happens to be familiar with as a long-standing foreign affairs correspondent. Thus, the supposed focus on Amnesty International as a social movement and non-governmental organization, and the effectiveness of its efforts, mostly falls apart as the book progresses.<br /><br />The actual history of the organization appears awkwardly in one chapter in the middle of the book, with most of the remainder consisting of rather standard political coverage of a very selective collection of human rights stories that seem to have been chosen arbitrarily by the author. At certain times, this does lead to very informative examinations of political and historical episodes that may be unfamiliar to the knowledgeable reader, such as a brutal dictatorship in the Central African Republic, or the inconsistent human rights record of the supposedly enlightened South Korea. Also, the chapter on Amnesty's concerns about rampant abuse in the American prison system offers a pretty balanced, if sometimes inflammatory, outside perspective.<br /><br />Unfortunately, other sections are marred by Jonathan Power's soapbox sermonizing. For example, he wraps up examinations of trouble spots like Colombia, China, and North Korea with one-paragraph pronouncements on how these nations' myriad problems can be immediately solved. Also, there are a fair number of factual errors throughout the book (especially with the dates and locations of major geopolitical and colonialist developments), and I agree with the previous reviewer on how such minor missteps can add up to major reservations about Power's coverage. And finally, the reader may want to skip the interminable final chapter in which Power unleashes a windy and inconclusive lecture on the current state of human rights around the world, with only occasional non-sequiturs to remind the reader that this is still a book about Amnesty International. Overall, this book that claims to be about that great and committed organization is often just tangentially influenced by it. [~doomsdayer520~]previous reviewer on how such minor missteps can add up to major reservations about Power's coverage. And finally, the reader may want to skip the interminable final chapter in which Power unleashes a windy and inconclusive lecture on the current state of human rights around the world, with only occasional non-sequiturs to remind the reader that this is still a book about Amnesty International. Overall, this book that claims to be about that great and committed organization is often just tangentially influenced by it. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-07-20
163936:US	52697458	R37RNF1HYGKV0W	076530953X	505704893	Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom	Books	3	10	12	N	N	A Fun but Shallow Future Romp	Cory Doctorow probably had a lot of fun creating this novel, and you can have fun reading it, but note that it doesn't reach too deep. Doctorow creates and explores heaps of futuristic trends and lifestyles, and there's great gearhead candy to be found here. One nice touch is the electronics added to all humans for constant mental connections to the Net, while society is stratified into classes not by income, but by one's network feedback ratings (called \\"Whuffie\\" here). But storytelling is lost beneath wave after wave of future gadgets and trinkets, with Doctorow's fun creativity substituting for plot or theme construction. The main twenty-second century futurism here, which has the most effect on driving the plot, is the ability of humans to download their personalities and reboot their physical existences. This leads to some excitement, but this device has been popping up in loads of sci-fi novels over the past decade or so. That leaves the characters, who are pretty interesting, while the plotline involves cutthroat competition among post-humans and gadget freaks in overhauling various sections of Disneyland. That's a fun but pretty inconsequential plotline, though I will admit that it kept me interested and the character interactions lead to some unexpected drama. This is certainly a fun book, but some deep-thought potential is missed among all the laughs and cyberpunk-isms. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-07-16
164787:US	52697458	R3PELJ7NAZ6HOL	031242034X	802245229	Concrete Island: A Novel	Books	3	6	8	N	N	More a Writing Exercise Than a Story	This is a modernized update on the Robinson Crusoe story, which accomplishes next to nothing in theme or plot development. Ballard has used the premise as an exercise in man-against-nature and man-against-self conflict construction. Here, a man named Maitland, in busy London, has crashed his car into a traffic island that is cut off from the rest off the world by freeway ramps. He finds himself in an unknown place that he can't escape, a la Crusoe. The fact that he is actually just a few feet away from the bustling city and its millions of people, though is isolated in an invisible small space, gives the reader an interesting sense of irony that lasts for about a minute. But otherwise, the book mostly becomes tiresome character developments as Maitland fights through exhaustion and evaluates how he really feels about being isolated. Another problem is the two supporting characters, homeless denizens Jane and Proctor, who are poorly constructed to the point of incomprehensibility, and whose psychoses are merely literary vehicles for Ballard to clumsily shed light on Maitland's foibles. It seems that Ballard merely decided to take some stock settings and themes, and perform a quaint exercise in building a sense of urban isolation through predictable inner conflicts within poorly drawn characters. Others may be amazed by this book's supposed \\"surreal\\" or \\"allegorical\\" qualities. Fair enough, but that doesn't mean it has a storyline that goes anywhere interesting. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-07-15
166640:US	52697458	R1V45N4RDXJSEO	0618341269	370115707	The Best American Travel Writing 2004 (The Best American Series)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Traveling the Un-American World	As with any compilation of anything, whether or not this volume truly represents the \\"best\\" of its chosen subject is a matter of fruitless dispute. Pico Iyer's introduction, describing a supposed theme in this year's offerings of a certain melancholy or weariness to American travel writing as a genre, rings hollow; while the field of publications from which the submissions were gleaned is pretty limited. But once you get past those minor difficulties, this book presents an enjoyable variety of missives from American writers who have traveled to both welcoming tourist attractions and unwelcoming trouble spots where the increasingly bad reputation of America is highly obvious. There are a few self-indulgent clunkers about breathless \\"discovery\\" here (those by Heather Eliot and Joan Didion come to mind). But the collection does offer many surprises, such as Adam Kopnik's character sketches of New York City bus riders, or Richie Chevat's droll narrative of his completely typical and predictable family vacation. The great John McPhee travels cross-country with an independent trucker, while Mark Jenkins, Kira Salak, Paul Salopak, and Patrick Symmes report enthrallingly from the darker hellholes of third world war zones and disaster areas. If you're bored with typical travelogues of quaint tourist traps and scenery, you'll get a little of that here, but the best essays in this collection show that Americans traveling around the world these days are much more likely to find trouble and darkness. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-07-14
169223:US	52697458	R3OW9KSYXWBR8V	0399149864	919064525	Pattern Recognition	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Zaprudered Into Surreal Dimensions	There is no real problem with William Gibson shifting to the present day for this novel, because he still has an eye for the most futuristic trends in cyberculture and hipsterism. Here Gibson continues to pile on his colorful and tech-intensive prose, intriguing faux-futuristic settings, and well-drawn webhead characters from multiple cultures. The lead character Cayce Pollard is a pretty interesting creation, and the story revolves around her international efforts to track down information and escape a maelstrom of shifty international nogoodniks and megalomaniac corporate sharks. But unfortunately this novel becomes little more than prose and setting. The suspense is all chases and conspiracies supported by a pretty underwhelming main plotline, concerning Cayce's efforts to find the anonymous creators of a popular web film. Cayce's internal struggles in relation to her father's fate seem like an add-on from a junior college fiction writing class, and the end of the story really fizzles out, with characters explaining what happened in tiresome monologues. That wouldn't have been necessary if Gibson had done a better job of constructing a more engaging plot for the reader to really wrap his or her mind around. Here Gibson's writing on the surface is as mindwarping as ever, but this novel just can't seem to reach much deeper. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-07-12
173488:US	52697458	R1ROUE9YPFW9U6	0028642236	635361994	Alpha Teach Yourself Project Management (Alpha Teach Yourself in 24 Hours)	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Lists and Definitions Only	In the project management field, projects by definition are unique and variable, and must be taken on a case-by-case basis. Therefore, beware of books that try to quantify and standardize methods in a field that is vastly fluid and varied by nature. In order to make any sense, such books must remain at a very high level to avoid alienating project managers with especially unique needs, but this very same high level of coverage usually results in terms and recommendations that are so vague as to lose their effectiveness. That goes double for this book. First of all, the \\"24 Hours\\" promise of the title is nothing but a gimmick from the Dummies school of bookstore education, and no professional would take such a thing seriously. Based on the nature of your real world experiences and requirements, 24 days, 24 weeks, or even 24 months are more realistic in learning project management.<br /><br />The \\"24 hours\\" gimmick could possibly be ignored except for the fact that this book is constructed as if such a thing really were possible, with the multitudinous characteristics of project management chopped up awkwardly and arbitrarily into 24 segments, which consist of little more than repetitive lists and definitions. The deepest this book gets into the real nitty-gritty of project management is the calculation of basic budgetary percentages and figuring out how many people to invite to a meeting, in the guise of hypothetical \\"projects\\" that are hard to take seriously - organizing a banquet and restoring an old building. Missing altogether is the fundamental challenge of project management - dealing with variety while knowing how to deeply analyze the common themes and knowledge of the discipline. Not recommended. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-07-09
173911:US	52697458	R2F1CNBARAYKEO	0684868857	366534072	Roads : Driving America's Great Highways	Books	2	28	31	N	N	One Should Not Drive This Aimlessly	This is a pretty mediocre little travel book, and I agree with some previous reviewers in that this kind of self-indulgence could only be published by an established writer who has had greater success previously. Here Larry McMurtry has created an odd mix of memoirs and literary observations by way of a series of half-hearted road trips that he wasn't really enthusiastic about taking. His commentary on sights and characters during his travels is occasionally interesting, in a cynical and curmudgeonly fashion. A good example is his savage comparison of delayed commuters at the airport with refugees in Kosovo. But such coverage of scenery and people, which is what makes great travel books, is rare here. Instead, McMurtry mostly muses on his own foibles, talks about his own books, and reviews the works of other writers who happened to be from the places through which he drove, quickly.<br /><br />Hence the road trips become merely a vague backdrop for exercises in reminiscing, and McMurtry unloads some poorly defined justifications for taking the journeys, relying on stock gibberish about finding oneself on the road, exploring the soul of America, and the like. Worst of all, during each trip McMurtry often starts complaining partway through that he has lost whatever inspiration caused him to start out, and in a quite annoying anti-travel fashion, he spends more time describing why he decided to avoid certain highways and even large regions. One horrendous example is his dismissal of the entire state of Idaho because of its small population of Aryans, while he has little good to say about any large city he traverses, nor many of the small towns. The only thing saving this book from total oblivion is the many times McMurtry praises other travel writers, which will encourage you to explore books far more enjoyable than this one. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-07-08
175477:US	52697458	REPGXDEET6ZMX	1587541165	833977771	Tom O'Bedlam	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Poor Tom Crazy Tom	Here Robert Silverberg created a minor sci-fi masterpiece with a quite profound and moving look at how different people would handle the existence of aliens. For all his life, the main character Tom has been having visions of alien worlds and super-advanced beings that are infinitely beyond humans, but everyone just treated him like he was crazy. But eventually, other people start having the same dreams, and this is where Silverberg's treatment of the concept is most interesting. The establishment thinks that those receiving the visions are mental cases that should be heavily sedated, religious adherents think they're signs of God, and the downtrodden see them as inspiration to join a cult founded by charlatans for their own gain. It turns out that the visions are really broadcasts from godlike aliens inviting humans to drop their physical existence and join them. But even though poor crazy Tom emerges as the chosen one, it's impossible to convince all people of what's good for them. Silverberg utilized some relatively common sci-fi concepts, but constructed a stirring theme that encourages a surprising amount of deep thought for the philosophically minded reader. [~doomsdayeer520~]	2005-07-07
185268:US	52697458	R3GMGO8S0MP9J3	0306813475	703304195	Whores: An Oral Biography Of Perry Farrell And Jane's Addiction	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Been Caught Compiling	For Jane's Addiction fans old and new, this is the place to learn about the history of the band, but you'll get it as compilation rather than analysis. Brendan Mullen uses a technique that has become popular in rock journalism - a collection of quick comments by various people describing things in their own words, with only brief set-ups or explanations from the author (reporter). This method may be hip and flashy, but I'm not convinced that it works. Mullen does use the method effectively in a few places by creating juxtapositions in time that cast a harsh light on the band's foibles. A great example is a snippet of an old interview in which Dave Navarro pronounced that he hates to \\"sell himself,\\" after which Mullen jumps right into Dave's marriage to Carmen Electra on MTV (on the good side, Dave really apologizes a lot for all his peccadilloes). And in general, one real advantage here is that the personalities of the four original members are highly visible, and it sure is good to have Eric Avery's participation.<br /><br />Sadly, there is something fundamentally missing from this book. Once again the culprit is the presentation style, with its disconnected commentaries and lack of analysis. Mullen relies so much on fuzzy memories from minor scenesters and hangers-on (many with extremely disposable observations) that the crucial insights of the band members, the guys you really want to hear from, are often missing from long stretches of the book. Mullen was one of those scenesters from the early days himself, or wished he was, and this forces a focus on the band's personal lives and the hijinks of their club days. The narrative flows very roughly, often jumping around haphazardly in time, and some important latter-day history is completely missing, such as the Kettle Whistle album and Eric's band Polar Bear.<br /><br />In the end, this book has lots of opinions and comments on the sound of Jane's music, but knowledge of their creative process is sorely missing. Of the actual songs, only \\"Jane Says,\\" \\"Three Days,\\" and a handful of others are even mentioned at all, and the power of the music is basically illustrated with vague explorations of how it has influenced other musicians. That's just not good enough for a so-called history of an incredible band that couldn't help but blaze into brilliance then burn out completely. Binges and infighting can be vaguely interesting stories, but the music is what really matters now. This book can be fun but it misses that crucial focus. [~doomsdayer520~]ng. Of the actual songs, only \\"Jane Says,\\" \\"Three Days,\\" and a handful of others are even mentioned at all, and the power of the music is basically illustrated with vague explorations of how it has influenced other musicians. That's just not good enough for a so-called history of an incredible band that couldn't help but blaze into brilliance then burn out completely. Binges and infighting can be vaguely interesting stories, but the music is what really matters now. This book can be fun but it misses that crucial focus. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-06-30
186139:US	52697458	R3AVMHI871J37O	0618239774	978444819	The End of Oil: On the Edge of a Perilous New World	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Down With the Status Quo	This outstanding, wide-ranging analysis by Paul Roberts offers the most inclusive coverage you're likely to find on all the world's energy issues. This book has some very specific advantages over others that may only complain about the current state of energy, or promote new technologies and assume that they'll easily replace oil. Roberts' key strength is an understanding of the political economy of world energy culture. (This offers a deeper look than a simple use of politics AND economics, and blends the two together into a more fluid realm of understanding.) The only people left on Earth who think that oil supplies will last forever are either narrow-minded conservative ideologues or those with vested financial interests in the dominant, but slipping, fossil fuel industry. However, you can't quite place all the blame on these folks for our lack of progress into alternative options, due to economic and political inertia and a cultural inability to move beyond the status quo. The main point is, we must get beyond that outdated status quo as soon as we find a viable way to do it.<br /><br />Roberts provides great coverage of how the oil business works, along with its vast effects on geopolitics and the cultural beliefs of everyone in the world who is used to dependable energy supplies. All evidence indicates that easily obtained oil is running out, and what's left is becoming more expensive to extract. Economic and geopolitical disaster looms on the horizon, along with all the environmental pitfalls of rampant fossil fuel use. Roberts then moves into alternative technologies such as wind and fuel cells (among others), but describes how poor dependability and problems with economies of scale will prevent these from becoming truly viable worldwide, regardless of political and economic shenanigans employed by vested interests to maintain the status quo, and crush any potential competitors to the entrenched oil industry. In the end, relatively benign fuel efficiency practices, once they overcome political and cultural opposition, might just be the world's saving grace.<br /><br />Roberts displays a great sense of even-handedness in covering all sides of these issues, and exploring all realities no matter how terrifying or disappointing they may be. The book ends with reasonably plausible policy and technical suggestions for solving the energy crunch, which are far beyond the pie-in-the-sky idealism of which alternative energy proponents are prone. Roberts could be faulted in a few places for being so even-handed that he weasels his way out of obvious political conclusions. However, Roberts' ability to effectively explore such wide-ranging and important issues, in one concise volume, means that this is the place for the most efficient coverage of this crucial topic. [~doomsdayer520~]practices, once they overcome political and cultural opposition, might just be the world's saving grace. <br /> <br />Roberts displays a great sense of even-handedness in covering all sides of these issues, and exploring all realities no matter how terrifying or disappointing they may be. The book ends with reasonably plausible policy and technical suggestions for solving the energy crunch, which are far beyond the pie-in-the-sky idealism of which alternative energy proponents are prone. Roberts could be faulted in a few places for being so even-handed that he weasels his way out of obvious political conclusions. However, Roberts' ability to effectively explore such wide-ranging and important issues, in one concise volume, means that this is the place for the most efficient coverage of this crucial topic. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-06-29
191892:US	52697458	R6UC518KQ1GJ	0452265657	84790477	Good News: A Novel (Plume)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A Nest of Anarchists	Edward Abbey's novels displayed his Sagebrush-style conservationist ideals, and his near-Anarchist sentiments took greatest root here. This is a near-future dystopia tale in which a thinly described economic disaster has forced most people to flee Abbey's beloved desert southwest, leaving just a few hardy naturalist survivors trying to create a non-government lifestyle. Meanwhile the wasted city of Phoenix becomes the base for a big-thinking ex-military man who wants to take control of all of humanity and eliminate dissenters who stand in his way. This novel is overflowing with excellent and thought-provoking political philosophy, especially when it comes to the exact meaning of \\"freedom\\" and how that term is actually defined by whoever has power. Unfortunately, this book's politics may be a little outdated, because nowadays I suspect that a western power-hungry demagogue would be the exact ideological opposite of Abbey's villain here (this guy's a socialist). The novel has a few other problems, such as longwinded and tiresome monologues from the characters. Most of the action is rather predictable chase scenes, and the story is capped off by an inconclusive ending, which cries out for a sequel that never appeared. This is a very hard-hitting and thought-provoking novel, but Abbey's basic ideas are better defined elsewhere. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-06-25
194337:US	52697458	R2M56WZMA0OJ0U	0782142141	484821983	Project Management JumpStart	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Useful High-Level Introduction	Project management is a business endeavor that has always been taken on a case-by-case basis. As opposed to the standard ongoing tasks of an organization, projects are by definition temporary and unique, however huge they may be. This leads to difficulty when experts try to formalize methodologies, or write books such as this one. Despite the existence of organizations claiming to have created standardized and accepted protocols and methods, and offering courses and certifications, project management studies such as this must necessarily remain at a high level. Here, Kim Heldman covers the areas that are important to any project, from initiating project plans all the way through to executing and closing out the project, with solid real-world knowledge. The problem is that the necessary high-level focus of the discipline results in a lot of standard business methods that will seem like second nature to experienced managers of any stripe. Meanwhile the chapters on scheduling and budgeting, by far the most nitty-gritty portions of a project plan, are so high-level (once again, because of the wide variety of real world situations) that they offer little real practical knowledge. This is still a very useful guide for project managers near the beginning of their careers. But what you'll ultimately learn is that the discipline of project management is dynamic and variable enough to make guides like this mostly good for high concepts and loose guidelines. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-06-23
195342:US	52697458	R26PFEU3R8AC52	0445203064	224034455	Wrack and Roll	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Hair Metal Chick Saves the World	If you're the type that thought 1980s heavy metal had the power to change the world, here's a fun and trashy novel for you. I agree with the previous reviewer who said that this book's basic theme is pretty hokey - the idea that rock n' roll can inspire worldwide class conflict and revolution, and can save humanity through the power of music. Also, the supernatural elements of the story are poorly defined, there are some issues with plot holes and character relations, and the nuclear war backdrop is pure 1986 paranoia. But with those flaws aside, Bradley Denton created a rollicking story in a fun rock setting with great dialogue, along with (usually) well-crafted characters with complex personalities. I especially liked the Lieza character - the rockstar protagonist who knows she has the power to save the world but is held back both by her painful past and her celebrity persona; and the guy known as Pissant - a washed up professor who barely manages to claw his way up from an alcoholic abyss and make his contribution to rock n' roll salvation. And while the conclusion of the story fizzles out a little after an extensive build up, Lieza and her wild band really do teach the world to respect the rock. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-06-22
200469:US	52697458	R18JU1MMFSKCOB	0271023856	581394276	Friends and Enemies in Penn's Woods: Indians, Colonists, and the Racial Construction of Pennsylvania	Books	3	18	33	N	N	For Academic Specialists Only	As a lifelong resident of Pennsylvania with a great interest in the state's history and geography, I was hoping that this book would provide general knowledge of the little-known stories of Pennsylvania Indians. The big questions are, who were they and where did they all go? I did not find any useful answers to those basic questions. The book is merely a collection of dissertations by intellectually detached graduate students and professors writing in theoretical abstractions, in order to move a little higher up the academic ladder. So instead of enlightening history that can be enjoyed by the informed and interested layperson, we have analyses of historical \\"texts\\" (consider this term very carefully) used for exercises in obtuse postmodern theorizing, written in the usual dry and stilted language of academia. This is evident in the use of fatuous terms like \\"patriarchy,\\" \\"gender construction\\" or \\"discursive antecedents.\\" In fact, the book's laborious subtitle should have alerted me to what I was getting myself into.<br /><br />The only consistently strong essay here is by Krista Camenzind, who finds connections between the social disruptions caused by the Seven Years' (French & Indian) War and the ruthless massacres of Indians by the Paxton Boys in 1763. Meanwhile, William A. Starna's look at the Iroquois diplomat Canasatego is an intriguing vignette of lost history. But otherwise, these essays sacrifice any and all insight into larger history and race relations, through an academic focus on very specific historical \\"texts,\\" while assuming that the reader is already familiar with specific episodes and personages. This does a grave disservice to the interested layperson. The editors do even more damage to readability by chopping up the essays to the point where they begin abruptly with no larger historical backgrounds, and end abruptly with no big-picture conclusions. To enjoy most of this book, you would have to be each writer's academic advisor who is concerned about didactic research methods rather than learning and enlightenment. The rest of us will be better served by rootsy local writers and historians whose books can be found at local bookstores and tourist sites. [~doomsdayer520~]about didactic research methods rather than learning and enlightenment. The rest of us will be better served by rootsy local writers and historians whose books can be found at local bookstores and tourist sites. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-06-17
201835:US	52697458	R171KQTGT8GEMF	0393052192	145166976	Where Mountains Are Nameless: Passion and Politics in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Far From a Wasteland	Of course the prospect of drilling for oil in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge will be fought over forever by know-it-alls from far away who have never been there. The main point of this book by Jonathan Waterman is that the ANWR is far from the barren and lifeless wasteland described by oil proponents, while environmentalists should also learn more about the true nature of the landscape before making big statements. In the end, Waterman certainly comes down on the side of conservation, but he mostly keeps the oil politics and environmentalism to a minimum as he describes his own adventurous journeys to the Arctic North. Threaded into Waterman's travelogues is the story of the longtime champions of the wildlife refuge, Olaus and Mardy Murie. Olaus was a groundbreaking field biologist and explorer throughout the first half of the 20th century, while his wife Mardy was a hugely influential conservationist and lecturer who died at age 101 while this book was being written.<br /><br />Unfortunately the book has some problems with readability. Waterman's main point, about how you really have to experience the refuge firsthand to understand it, is spread out very thinly across at least a dozen concurrent narratives and storylines. Segments covering various portions of the Muries' lives, several of Waterman's different trips, a history of Alaska, oil business economics, the biology of the caribou herds and other animals, environmental politics, and naturalist philosophy are all mixed together haphazardly and in no particular chronological order. Waterman also gets a bit maudlin in his attempts to conjure up the appropriate language to describe the wonders of the refuge, with occasional croakers like \\"letting my body become the universe in which it walked.\\" The nonlinear construction of the book really saps the energy out of Waterman's potentially powerful insights about communing with nature overall, and the fate of the ANWR specifically. But he still manages to convey the feeling of the potential loss of a tremendous national treasure in favor of miniscule economic and political gains. [~doomsdayer520~]convey the feeling of the potential loss of a tremendous national treasure in favor of miniscule economic and political gains. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-06-16
205888:US	52697458	R26ZXZ103XA3Y0	0767918738	447005855	The Rock Snob's Dictionary: An Essential Lexicon of Rockological Knowledge	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Snobbery Rocks	Mark Twain said that a classic is a book that everybody praises but nobody reads, and we have that kind of literary snobbery in rock music too. Here, certified rock snobs Kamp and Daly lay out a snobbishly informative definition and history of rock snobbery, followed by an encyclopedia of artists, albums, devices, and terms that snobs love to praise but may not have really heard. So here you can learn more about obscure darlings Captain Beefheart and Richard Thompson, genres alt country and old school, and even annoying critics-only terms like \\"rewards repeated listens\\" and \\"plangent,\\" all with not just definitions but also discussions on why these people and things are snobworthy. I was surprised to find that I'm a credible rock snob myself, as I was familiar with at least three-quarters of the snob terms in this book and I am a longtime fan of such snob faves as Love, Bad Brains, and P.Funk. (Kamp and Daly could stand to beef up their funk snobbery, but maybe that should be a whole 'nother book!) But even I was unaware of the snob love for people like John Philips or Dexys Midnight Runners, who are revered for everything they did before and after they were temporarily famous. And that's what true snobbery is all about! I'm one of the very select few who know that... [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-06-13
207405:US	52697458	R1NRR9U9WRY1UM	0375403728	672463940	Maximum City: Bombay Lost and Found	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Too Much of a Town That's Too Much	This is definitely not a tourist guide to the sunny and acceptable side of the teeming and monstrous city of Bombay. Suketu Mehta, an American transplant, decided to return to his hometown and investigate its endless and often horrific underbelly - the world that the vast majority of its inhabitants have learned to live in. Underlying Mehta's general coverage of poverty, overcrowding, crime, ethnic conflict, and black market economics are in-depth character sketches of people surviving the dark side of Bombay. My favorite portion of the book covers Mehta's time with a forlorn exotic dancer that he calls Monalisa, while he also delves deeply into the lives of crime lords, street thugs, a harried police detective, a budding poet living on the streets, and even a family of Jain monks, all of whom have stories that would rarely if ever be told in more upscale narratives. This all makes the book unexpectedly harsh, vulgar, violent, and surprisingly fascinating from a human point of view.<br /><br />The only problem is that Mehta doesn't know when to stop, over-covering his subjects to the point of exhaustion, and occasionally going off on unfocused tangents, such as the story of his involvement in producing a cheesy Bollywood movie. The book mostly managed to keep me interested through all its 500+ pages, as Metha would eventually introduce intriguing new people or situations. But each chapter is usually way too long in itself, and sometimes it feels like the book will never end as you long for Mehta to wrap up one story and either get to the next or just bring the book to an authoritative conclusion. Mehta has created a highly intriguing book about an overwhelming city that would scare away the weak-hearted, but his prose tends to get overwhelming too. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-06-12
209832:US	52697458	R1AYMX3A3VKW0S	0812502361	794344752	Cortez On Jupiter (Ben Bova Presents)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Reality Snapcracklepopping	Add Ernest Hogan to the \\"whatever happened to...\\" list of up and coming young writers who disappeared without getting the widespread recognition they deserved. This book is a minor sci-fi masterpiece that is definitely worthy of rediscovery, and someone should bring it back into print. The story revolves around hyperactive artist Cortez, who goes from guerilla murals in a dreary future metropolis to being the first human to make contact with aliens. His artist's mind makes him perfect for communicating with sentient energy beings around Jupiter, the deep thoughts of which have melted the brains of every other human who made the attempt. Ernest Hogan's writing style perfectly captures the gonzo personality of Cortez, with fascinating philosophical and artistic explorations and a great infusion of Aztec mythology. The narrative zooms along at a rip-roaring pace with Cortez speaking in a hilarious Spanglish hybrid, and Hogan makes great use of language and wordplay. (Let's face it, any book containing the word \\"cyberpsychoautonomelectromagneticneuroextrasensorywhatchamacallit\\" has just got to be a riot.) This book is well worth tracking down for fans of fun and offbeat science fiction. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-06-09
211156:US	52697458	R37X62TYOES5AP	1594200130	388201475	Colossus: The Price of America's Empire	Books	2	12	24	N	N	Anti-Imperial Empire, Anti-Historical History	I find it difficult to nail down whatever point Niall Ferguson is trying to make here, and must conclude that this is an academic exercise that does not succeed. A British scholar's take on America's imperial behavior can be useful, and he does come up with a few great insights on how empires operate now and in the past. For example, there is plenty of evidence that America's behavior around the world is that of an empire, even though our politicians and population refuse to admit it, while we don't have the will or fortitude to occupy and administer countries for the many years that are necessary for our own \\"regime change\\" missions to succeed. Unfortunately, these few solid points are lost in Ferguson's awkward attempts to apply his area of expertise, financial history, to world politics.<br /><br />Large portions of the book are devoted to a mostly economic history of the old British Empire and the current European Union, representing longwinded and unsuccessful attempts to draw comparisons with modern America. These actually defeat Ferguson's main thesis by focusing on what empires have done wrong in the past. Ferguson relies on a parade of selective and inconclusive economic statistics, including some supremely useless figures like the percentage of Yale graduates working abroad or the average cost per acre of old American territorial purchases. What this really boils down to is that Ferguson has an economic/financial explanation for all historical processes. For example, he summarily dismisses colonialism as an explanation for Africa's problems, tossing aside a universe of knowledge (such as the illogical forcing of nation-state structures on tribal peoples or the use of weak nations as pawns in the Cold War) in favor of an easy explanation concerning spendthrift dictators.<br /><br />Ferguson also myopically uses finance as his basic interpretation of current events. For example, the fact that Halliburton's share price has recently declined apparently makes the control of Iraq's oil a non-factor in current American operations there. Furthermore, Ferguson believes in the supposed miracle of free trade (including, despicably, the free international movement of exploitable migrant labor) as the utopian cure for all the world's problems, as if the flow of cash and consumer goods can overcome vast issues of culture, religion, and politics. This is ideology, not historical analysis, and it goes hand in hand with the most problematic aspect of Ferguson's thesis - the underlying contention that stronger imperial behavior by the Unites States, as an economic empire, will be advantageous for all of the world's problematic regions. With its unsuccessful economic interpretations of history and dismissal of modern realities of war and culture, this book ultimately defeats itself. [~doomsdayer520~]akes the control of Iraq's oil a non-factor in current American operations there. Furthermore, Ferguson believes in the supposed miracle of free trade (including, despicably, the free international movement of exploitable migrant labor) as the utopian cure for all the world's problems, as if the flow of cash and consumer goods can overcome vast issues of culture, religion, and politics. This is ideology, not historical analysis, and it goes hand in hand with the most problematic aspect of Ferguson's thesis - the underlying contention that stronger imperial behavior by the Unites States, as an economic empire, will be advantageous for all of the world's problematic regions. With its unsuccessful economic interpretations of history and dismissal of modern realities of war and culture, this book ultimately defeats itself. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-06-08
214797:US	52697458	RXURPH1MA0Z6F	0822958627	793257078	Appalachian Winter	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Winter For All Seasons	Even though I read this book in early June, I almost couldn't wait for the next winter in my area of Central Pennsylvania. Marcia Bonta also lives in this region, in a large forested enclave on top of a ridge, and this book functions as a diary of her wildlife viewing around her property during an entire winter. There are entries for each date from December 1 through March 20, and while you might think such a diary would be monotonous, that is far from the case because of the wide variety of wildlife and weather Bonta observed every day. She saw plenty of the most common woodland creatures frolicking throughout the supposedly \\"dead\\" season, with some surprise sightings of bears, beavers, and foxes. The biggest surprise for the reader is the astonishing variety of birds that inhabited the Bonta ranch during the winter, from mighty raptors to surprisingly hardy songbirds. Throughout the daily diary entries, Bonta adds informative biology lessons on the behavior of the birds and animals she spotted. Meanwhile there are occasional forays into other scientific areas, such as the botany of lichens and the history of the snowshoe, topped off by occasional passages of wise and experienced Thoreau-like naturalist philosophy. This very enjoyable book shows you that winter only seems like a dead season if you stay cooped up inside every day. Instead, venture outside and see for yourself how alive the hills and forests of Appalachia really are. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-06-06
216924:US	52697458	R37IK4SILLWCB2	0312858787	906123966	Gun, With Occasional Music: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	As Easy to Love as a Kangaroo in a Dinner Jacket	There is a very accurate reviewer's blurb on the back of this book, calling it \\"a high-octane blend of Raymond Chandler and Philip K. Dick.\\" Here we have a wild detective yarn about a worn-out gumshoe trying to crack a wonderfully twisted murder conspiracy, with hilarious use of language and sarcasm straight from the classic noir of Chandler and his cohorts. But this story happens to take place in a disturbingly weird near-future populated by confused humans sharing the world with pre-developed infants and anthropomorphic animals, with a foulmouthed gangster baby and a trigger-happy kangaroo as the villains. Most interestingly, in this world the establishment is feeding people free cocaine-like drugs called Forgettol and Addictol, among others, to keep the population in an accepting and unquestioning state. This creates a disturbing anti-human and totalitarian dystopia that is straight from PKD, and it turns out that being a private eye in that kind of environment is a real drag. This book is a swinging mix of the hysterical and the disconcerting, and Jonathan Lethem really hit the jackpot with this assured and genre-bending debut novel. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-06-04
217443:US	52697458	R2TS0AUPWT771A	0871139219	571815072	The Lost German Slave Girl: The Extraordinary True Story Of Sally Miller And Her Fight For Freedom in Old New Orleans	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Unique Look at Everyday Slavery	John Bailey was doing general research into the minutiae of slave laws in the American South prior to the Civil War, and came across an unusual case that he decided to investigate fully, resulting in this highly interesting book. The story here involves the disappearance of a little German immigrant girl into the world of the redemptioner system (indentured servitude) in Louisiana, then her supposed discovery by anxious relatives 25 years later, working as a slave at a New Orleans saloon. The young woman allowed the relatives to institute a lengthy legal battle for her freedom, but her true identity and the real fate of the lost little girl turned out to be real surprises. Bailey makes use of his research into slave laws to show the relentless everyday prejudice of the slave system. We find that people with even a small fraction of non-white heritage were condemned by law to lives of slavery, poor white immigrants could be enslaved if their indentured servitude arrangements went wrong, the ownership rules for slaves and their children were heartless and constructed similarly to those for perishable foods, and it was nearly impossible for slaves of any heritage to gain their freedom in the eyes of the Southern courts. In addition to covering a very unique court case from Louisiana history, the true value of this book is a look at how a system that everyone knows was evil - slavery - was backed up by a body of obscure laws and regulations that were designed specifically to keep the slaves legally powerless and their masters powerful. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-06-03
220501:US	52697458	R1IW0S0QAHPBQZ	0375708111	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Eleven-Dimensional Thinking	While much of this book is probably too dense for beginners, there is hardly a better source for informed laypeople to learn about the latest theoretical advances in astrophysics. In this particular informed layperson's view, Einstein's relativity explains the vast cosmology of stars and galaxies, while quantum mechanics explains the subatomic realms of quarks and electrons. Unfortunately these two theories of the cosmos come into conflict in extreme situations such as black holes and the big bang, with that pesky old gravity messing up the orderly theoretical functioning of the universe. Brian Greene's specialty, string theory, is the most audacious and currently believable candidate for Theory of Everything, though the theory has mostly been built from esoteric developments in bizarre mathematics and thought experiments, rather than direct observation.<br /><br />Here Greene explains with remarkable precision and understandability how string theory works and where it currently stands, but the science is so complex that even his great writing leads to lots of head scratching. Early in the book Greene does a fantastic job of introducing string theory itself, remarkably in just two paragraphs, and in the next few chapters gives the most understandable non-mathematical explanations for relativity and quantum mechanics that I've ever seen. The rest of the book gets more complicated and the vast esoteric vagaries of string theory can be a real strain on the brain, but Greene deserves much credit for kicking off the reader's deep thoughts on some really extreme scientific concepts. And finally, Greene spends a sizeable portion of the book explaining that string theory is just that - a theory - which is not fully accepted by all physicists. Greene gives credit to all his colleagues where credit is due, openly admits to the weaknesses of the theory, and speculates on possible theoretical improvements. That makes many of the negative reviews here, which are obviously from some of Greene's more narrow-minded and professionally jealous university competitors, invalid and unworthy of further discussion. [~doomsdayer520~]m some of Greene's more narrow-minded and professionally jealous university competitors, invalid and unworthy of further discussion. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-06-01
223472:US	52697458	R3OVF44CCS7U0S	1400062659	627904149	The Orientalist: Solving the Mystery of a Strange and Dangerous Life	Books	4	13	17	N	N	The Anti-Revolutionist	Here Tom Reiss has written a fascinating book that not is not only a biography of a highly enigmatic person, but also a much larger history of the events and cultures surrounding his life. The man in question was a popular writer in Europe in the 1920s and 30s, who published as an exotic Muslim traveler named Essad Bey or Kurban Said, but was really a Jewish kid from Azerbaijan named Lev Nussimbaum. Lev's unique upbringing in multicultural Baku and his travels throughout Central Asia and the Middle East (both referred to as the \\"Orient\\" at the time) inspired him to convert to Islam and create an enigmatic Eastern persona, in order to both build his own celebrity and elude anti-Semitism. Lev escaped the Russian Revolution to Europe, only to find himself swept up in the multiple revolutions there between the two World Wars, ultimately suffering the sad fate of a \\"stateless\\" person. This led to the unusual politics of his books, which combined Eastern mysticism, anti-revolutionism, monarchism, and strange reactionary elements against the extreme ideologies that seemed to follow him everywhere he went.<br /><br />Tom Reiss builds a vast history around Lev's literary and political development, exploring the culture and politics of Europe and the Caucasus during the interwar period. This results in some very interesting historical coverage, especially from an ideological standpoint, as Reiss covers the bizarre extremist politics of the period (especially the shifting unholy alliances between the Nazis and Communists), as well as obscure intellectual fads like Jewish Orientalism, in which Lev was a leading thinker. The problem is that the historical coverage often leads away from Lev's biography for long periods, giving the book an unfocused feel, while Reiss' political coverage sometimes gets swamped in hyperbole, personal opinions, and attempted connections between larger events and trends. This is especially true of the chapters describing Weimar Germany. I also suspect that Reiss has been bamboozled by some of Lev's hidden diaries and memoirs, taking at face value the writings of a man who made a career of obscuring his politics and persona. But despite those flaws, this is still a fascinating look at a very enigmatic person, his unique worldview, and the confounding times in which he lived. [~doomsdayer520~]ct that Reiss has been bamboozled by some of Lev's hidden diaries and memoirs, taking at face value the writings of a man who made a career of obscuring his politics and persona. But despite those flaws, this is still a fascinating look at a very enigmatic person, his unique worldview, and the confounding times in which he lived. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-05-30
225413:US	52697458	R281E0CQWD74AD	0816633460	821538243	Hacker Culture	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Phreaks and Pr0phessors	This is a cultural and political study of hackers as researched by an academic, and as a former academic myself, I can tell you a bit about how this process works. A professor takes a subject of general interest and beats it senseless by applying intellectual theory, and constructs the study for other professors who are more concerned with accepted research methods, rather than knowledgeable general readers who might have an interest in learning more about the subject. Here, Douglas Thomas uncovers a number of fascinating aspects of hacker culture. These include the recent increase in political activism by hackers, their contradictory stances on secrecy and freedom of information, the back-and-forth influence of cyberpunk and science fiction (with some interesting connections to authors William Gibson and Bruce Sterling), and especially how popular views on the criminality of hackers is really an outgrowth of society's latent fears of technological domination.<br /><br />This could have been a truly fascinating book if Thomas hadn't decided to turn on the professorisms and flog this interesting material to death with tired and soggy theory. Thomas frequently namedrops the classic social theoreticians Foucault, Nietzsche, and Heidegger, an exercise that serves little purpose other than impressing Thomas' fellow professors. He also unleashes windy over-analysis of the texts of outdated movies and magazines, as well as the influential Hacker Manifesto. His attempts to build up his annoying concepts of boy culture and the influence of the body on virtual identity mostly fizzle out (run for your life when you see an author whipping out terms like those), and the book often deteriorates into obtuse and fatuous academic language like the over-analytical \\"freedom and secrecy were decontextualized to the point of solipsism,\\" and pure useless professorial garbage like \\"the decomposition and recomposition of discourse.\\" At times this book is surprisingly interesting for an academic cultural study, but remember who wrote it and for whom. [~doomsdayer520~]academic cultural study, but remember who wrote it and for whom. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-05-27
228973:US	52697458	RU0ZQ94XIE7YG	0375706682	433261893	Dhalgren	Books	2	11	19	N	N	Writing Writing Writing Writing About Writing	So why is it that when an established author unleashes a rambling, disjointed, nonlinear, longwinded, directionless, thousand-page long manifesto on his own self-discovery, everyone thinks it's so profound and visionary? If you want to heap such praise on this book, more power to you, but some of us appreciate stories that actually go somewhere while the author obsesses endlessly over his own identity and destiny. It's true that Delany explores many important issues here, and you can see other reviews for examples of what those issues are. But such explorations are haphazard and disconnected, while the underwhelming \\"point\\" of the story is if Delany's mixed-up doppelganger (The Kid) will discover whether or not he wants to be a writer of deep thoughts. This main theme pops up periodically amidst an interminable flood of directionless subplots and inconsequential character developments taking place in the wasted city of Bellona, which in turn is suffering from a bizarre apocalypse of shifting realities and cosmological disasters that Delany spends hundreds and hundreds of pages not explaining.<br /><br />And in the end, what we have here is a manifesto of writing methods that ultimately (and slowly) goes nowhere. Trying to read this book is like watching the guitarist in a jam band crank out a 20-minute solo. It may have ups and downs, variations of different styles, and shifting moods. But all you can think is yes, we know you can play guitar and you do it well, but get back to the song already because your solo is skillful but ultimately meaningless. Yes, we know Delany can write and he does it well, but he can't stop soloing for almost a thousand exasperating pages. All that we get here is wave upon wave upon wave upon wave of writing, that swamps an underdeveloped story as well as the reader's underappreciated patience. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-05-25
234122:US	52697458	R1C9TBPGAG6N0E	0805073132	947438665	Blood and Oil: The Dangers and Consequences of America's Growing Dependency on Imported Petroleum (American Empire Project)	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Just Admit It	For those knowledgeable on the subject of petro-politics, there is little new information in this book, but Michael Klare does a great job of consolidating current thought into one informative package. Klare finds compelling evidence, usually in freely available US government documents, that almost every single US military action in recent decades has been about ensuring the flow of imported oil to America. For example, the first Bush administration originally justified the 1991 Persian Gulf War with the need to restore the flow of cheap oil that was disrupted by Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. But of course, this was before the media spectacle began, and politicians and pundits started throwing around words like freedom and democracy and liberation.<br /><br />Here you can see without a doubt, unless you're an unthinking apologist, that \\"energy security\\" is the primary (if not the only) military mission of the most recent American presidential administrations. In addition to the problematic Persian Gulf, we are also on the verge of getting involved in conflicts in alternative oil production regions, especially the Caspian Sea area. Our insatiable thirst for oil has led us into all sorts of damaging military engagements and unethical support deals with corrupt regimes and dictators. Klare provides indisputable evidence that America will get into a downward spiral of conflict and competition over dwindling supplies of oil unless we can break away from the status quo of consumption.<br /><br />This book does have a few gaps that prevent it from being a complete success, however. Klare misses the point that America is creating competitors for the dwindling worldwide petroleum supply by \\"encouraging\\" developing nations (especially China and India) to adopt our lifestyle. Also, Klare focuses mostly on foreign policy in this book and hence misses a few key aspects of domestic policy, especially how government subsidies and corporate welfare to old-school energy industries have kept them artificially profitable, and have prevented alternative energy industries from getting off the ground. However, Klare concludes the book with some pretty solid, if wishful, prescriptions for an American public that needs to finally admit what's really going on with oil, and how damaging our addiction to it really is. [~doomsdayer520~]s have kept them artificially profitable, and have prevented alternative energy industries from getting off the ground. However, Klare concludes the book with some pretty solid, if wishful, prescriptions for an American public that needs to finally admit what's really going on with oil, and how damaging our addiction to it really is. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-05-20
239585:US	52697458	R3IGFOZ7FEW5MU	0679735720	595491550	Time's Arrow	Books	2	8	25	N	N	A Pointless Arrow	This is the type of book that some will think is absolutely brilliant, but the rest of us will immediately recognize a contrived attempt at using method in order to make righteous statements about important concepts. The method used by Amis here is backwards narration, in which a doppelganger awakens at a guy's death and lives his life in reverse. Don't worry about how this supernatural process is supposed to work, because Amis doesn't bother explaining it. We find that the character Tod T. Friendly is an old doctor who has a dark secret in his past (that is, in the narrator's future), and as the reader snoozes through Friendly's life backwards, we find that he was a Nazi doctor during the Holocaust. But that troubling sequence zooms by with little to show for it, except for some predictable comments on cruelty and death and the horror of war from Amis. The backwards time stream device merely becomes an annoying vehicle for Amis to explore how weird stuff looks in reverse, while conversations even more nonsensically flow backwards by the sentence rather than by the sound - showing that Amis can't even make his basic writing method work. The reverse-time-traveling doppelganger eventually reaches Friendly's logical end/beginning with some completely underwhelming big statements on life and creation. Send your own conciousness backwards to the time before you thought about reading this contrived and unsuccessful book. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-05-16
240915:US	52697458	R35FOLY0OQWM6N	0312974884	103733134	Why Didn't You Get Me Out?: A POW's Nightmare in Vietnam	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Truly Left Behind	I have a relative who served in Vietnam and knew Frank Anton, and thus I was able to read an autographed copy of this book. This is a terrifying account of Anton's five years as a POW. There are many books with this type of account out there, but this one has the added value of political insights into the POW/MIA phenomenon. When Anton finally returned home from years of maltreatment, disease, despair, and watching several fellow prisoners die, he learned that the government knew where he was all along. Anton has found compelling evidence that the US military chose not to rescue POWs while the war was in progress, for various political and strategic reasons; while political lethargy and historical myopia have prevented the rescue of many POWs who are surely still trapped in Southeast Asia or elsewhere. One potential source of controversy in this book is Anton's harsh but ultimately levelheaded coverage of the court-martialed turncoat Bobby Garwood. Contrasting information about Garwood has been published elsewhere, so approach this subject with an open mind. But otherwise, Anton has great insight into the continuing drama surrounding the experiences of himself and his comrades, as well as POW/MIAs in general and how the American leadership really does see missing servicemen as political collateral. In Anton's view, this is a betrayal that should cause real concern among military personnel and those dedicated to fighting for their country. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-05-14
242816:US	52697458	RGMV8MK9YGY7W	0895260468	571232133	A Public Betrayed: An Inside Look at Japanese Media Atrocities and Their Warnings to the West	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Nail That Sticks Up Gets Pounded Down	For those interested in media studies, this is an informative and enlightening treatise on how the media works, or doesn't work, in Japan. The authors provide a reasonably compelling argument that if current trends in the American media continue, ours could become more and more like the highly dysfunctional and ineffective media of Japan, which has been guilty of many infractions on the Japanese people's rights to information and privacy. Here we find that the Japanese media is built around an unusual system of press clubs, which foment severe collusion between government sources and unquestioning reporters, and huge-selling weekly newsmagazines that offer a bizarre mix of investigative reporting, sensationalism, and titillation. The unique structural aspects of this industry have resulted in systematic xenophobia, sexism, neonationalism, and character assassinations in the Japanese media that have real effects on the rights of the people.<br /><br />Through case studies examined in this book, we also find that the Japanese media have a structural tendency to revise and cover up shameful episodes in the country's history (especially WWII atrocities), relentlessly smear nonconformists and reform advocates, and perpetuate the near-total social power of Japan's political and economic elites. Unfortunately, Adam Gamble (according to the acknowledgements, co-author Takesato Watanabe mostly played the role of mentor) shows signs of contempt for fundamental aspects of Japanese culture, while the basic points being made in the book become tiresome and repetitive when applied to multiple case studies. The histories of the events behind the case studies also leave something to be desired, in terms of clarity and robustness. But the moral of the story is that the main reasons for these failures in Japanese journalism are corporate owners' push for profits rather than accuracy or objectivity, and ideological collusion between media and government elites. Anyone familiar with media studies in the U.S. will know that we're not too far away from just that kind of structure here, and this adds a worrisome atmosphere to this book. [~doomsdayer520~]media studies in the U.S. will know that we're not too far away from just that kind of structure here, and this adds a worrisome atmosphere to this book. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-05-13
246874:US	52697458	R3DWGG3VMQSS48	0805073396	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	5	23	32	N	N	We're All in Kansas Anymore	Who would've thought that a book about voting trends in Kansas would become such a rip-roaring indictment of all that is wrong with American politics today? Thomas Frank uses his home state of Kansas as a microcosm for the nonsensical plague of conservatism that is blanketing the nation. We learn here that Kansas has a surprising history of radicalism, as its strong populations of farmers and blue-collar workers inspired waves of progressive politics that periodically swept the nation until around the middle of the twentieth century. Frank is now dismayed to find that formerly free-thinking Kansas has become almost completely neoconservative, unquestioningly supporting policies that have only conspired to destroy the state's fortunes. This is what is happening all across America, as people have become obsessed with giving more and more power to the corporate and political aristocrats whose interests are the polar opposites of their own.<br /><br />Frank's writing is relentlessly sarcastic and vindictive, and while you're unlikely to agree with all his positions, any non-neoconservative with half a grasp on political reality will find this to be an uproarious read. This book hits a couple of rough spots in chapters about Frank's own childhood political enlightenment and Kansas' religious schismatics. But otherwise, Frank continuously and unapologetically bashes the flaws in the worldview of regular people who support the neoconservative cause. Right wing politicians promise to fight for intangible and inherently ineffective moral causes, and make absolutely no effort to tackle real tangible social and economic issues faced by voters. The voters think the pro-corporate politicians are on their side after believing claims of a conspiracy from a liberal elite that does not exist and thinking that politicians who rage against declining morals are actually improving the lives of regular folks. Frank's greatest insight is how conservatives are completely blind to class and economic issues, as Republican voters give more and more power to corporations and support the exact same unrestrained post-capitalism that is putting them out of work and destroying their farms and small towns. Well at least these folks can rest assured that they voted for someone who opposes the teaching of evolution. [~doomsdayer520~]nd economic issues, as Republican voters give more and more power to corporations and support the exact same unrestrained post-capitalism that is putting them out of work and destroying their farms and small towns. Well at least these folks can rest assured that they voted for someone who opposes the teaching of evolution. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-05-09
251283:US	52697458	R2HQBL1ACE4OQ9	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	3	12	23	N	N	The Whole is Less than the Sum of the Parts	I'm afraid that this award winner is overrated, and is less than it appears to be on the surface. Committees that give out awards are always smitten with big sprawling \\"epics\\" that tackle \\"significant\\" themes like faith and death and humanity. Dan Simmons' writing here is hugely ambitious, but the result is a book that barely even begins its true story, and piles on a plethora of big ideas and themes that are not explored in depth. The basic premise here is a terribly contrived take on Canterbury Tales, in which seven main characters, that are of course mismatched, are implausibly thrown together into a pilgrimage to the mysterious planet Hyperion, on which resides a mysterious demigod called the Shrike which has unexplained powers over the passage of time and the destinies of lost human societies.<br /><br />The main characters are mostly thin personality types that are so different from each other that there would certainly be \\"drama\\" when they're forcibly thrown together. We have the pious man of religion, the open-minded scholar, the quick-thinking detective, the monstrously annoying poet, and other dependable character templates. After finding themselves together on their pilgrimage, the characters then somehow convince each other to tell their personal stories, once again in the style of Canterbury Tales and at great length, of how they came to make the pilgrimage in the first place. These tales operate as short stories that are sometimes interesting in themselves, but sometimes not, with the overall book only tying the tales together with some thin subplots.<br /><br />These character tales have the potential to be expanded into quite interesting novels of their own, and they should have been because in condensed form here, Simmons fails to explore his often interesting themes to their full potential. Meanwhile, winning SF ideas like theocratic planets, time dilation, artificial intelligence, and even communicating with dolphins appear briefly then disappear. And the non-ending of this book is the hugest disappointment of all, as the characters are still at the beginning of their pilgrimage (which I presume will be the basis of the next book), and the strange phenomena of Hyperion are left unexplained. Writers are perfectly free to develop their ideas over multiple volumes, but Simmons doesn't even try to make this 500+ page tome self-sufficient. The individual parts of this book have their moments, but the whole is utterly unsatisfying. [~doomsdayer520~]pear. And the non-ending of this book is the hugest disappointment of all, as the characters are still at the beginning of their pilgrimage (which I presume will be the basis of the next book), and the strange phenomena of Hyperion are left unexplained. Writers are perfectly free to develop their ideas over multiple volumes, but Simmons doesn't even try to make this 500+ page tome self-sufficient. The individual parts of this book have their moments, but the whole is utterly unsatisfying. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-05-05
255392:US	52697458	R8RFEXTHEOGRX	0802714153	50272461	The Book Nobody Read: Chasing the Revolutions of Nicolaus Copernicus	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Esoteric Bibliophile Detective	Owen Gingerich spent 30 years compiling a worldwide census of all known surviving copies of the Copernicus magnum opus \\"De Revolutionibus,\\" the first non-geocentric theory of the cosmos from the 16th century. Gingerich's travels around the world while tracking down and investigating copies of the valuable book - in libraries, observatories, private collections, and auction houses - are the focus of this story. Here we have a detective story that will be of practical value to historians of science and collectors of rare antique books, but non-specialists may have trouble drumming up more than a polite interest. Gingerich's quest has a few interesting episodes, such as gumshoeing behind the Iron Curtain or helping international agents locate stolen copies. But much of this book consists of repetitive tales of Gingerich's great excitement at figuring out very esoteric intellectual details, such as who owned a certain copy of the Copernicus masterpiece through handwriting analysis or mixing and matching pages from different editions. The inspiration for Gingerich's quest (at least as described here) isn't even that intriguing, as he merely wishes to debunk a previous scientific historian who declared that Copernicus' masterpiece was \\"the book nobody read.\\" Obviously that's wrong, since the book kicked off a revolutionary change in scientific thought, even though Gingerich finds useful proof that it was definitely read by later influential astronomers such as Kepler and Tycho. Gingerich's census of the Copernicus book, and his lifetime of building expert knowledge on the subject, are certainly outstanding academic and historical achievements. But his quest wasn't really dramatic or adventurous enough to keep this particular book from seeming quite esoteric and repetitive. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-05-02
257528:US	52697458	R243WIH47ZS2PL	0446601977	383179538	Parable of the Sower	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Self Must Create	Here Octavia Butler refines one of her specialties - a haunting and subtly creepy tale about people struggling to survive in a failed society that they helplessly watch crumble around them. This one takes the classic motif of self-discovery during a road trip but places the characters in a horrific post-corporate future dystopia of indentured slavery, rampant crime, and drug-fueled megalomania. The main character Lauren is leading a scraggly group of fellow survivors away from burned cities toward a promised land that probably doesn't exist. In the process she starts her own religion from the ashes of previous beliefs that have failed to provide comfort in a disintegrating and regressing society. One especially terrifying creation of Butler's here is a growing population of arsonists who are addicted to a drug that makes burning and killing an orgasmic experience, while elitists isolate themselves and crack down on the innocent to maintain their power. One issue here is that the book ends a bit uneventfully and obviously leads into a sequel, but you'll be more than ready to read that next book after being quite disturbed and intrigued by this one. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-05-01
259731:US	52697458	RV6S6CBUB2P4D	1932100016	145668397	The Sheep Look Up	Books	4	32	36	N	N	Stop, You're Killing Me	This classic from John Brunner is a fascinating and terrifying vision of a dysfunctional future in which the worst flaws of modern behavior lead to disastrous results for humanity. Dealing with environmental degradation, the book is surely a fractured masterpiece of human misery and social dementia. There are a few problems with the believability of this book though. Brunner's future is awkwardly projected directly from the Cold War and civil rights struggles of the late 60s, making much of this book's background action quite seem quite dated. Brunner's environmental catastrophes are frighteningly possible if current trends continue to their logical extreme. But the worldwide burning rivers, dead oceans, and poison smog would take centuries to develop and appear rather hysterical in hindsight, as Brunner envisioned these things happening a mere decade after the time he wrote the book. And one fundamental plotting problem here concerns the success of mysterious hero Austin Train in getting many millions of people behind his budding anti-corporate revolution. Brunner implies that Train operates only on charisma and the obvious truth of his message. It is hard to imagine this happening in the real world, regardless of how correct or compelling a revolutionary's message truly is. Brunner also has the tendency to kill off his characters just when they start to get interesting.<br /><br />But with those problems aside, Brunner still lays out an absolutely brilliant analysis of how American society would deteriorate in the face of an obvious disaster, no matter how farfetched that disaster may be. Those in the political and economic elite will stack the deck in their favor, continuing their lives of comfort while regular people are left to fend for themselves. Anyone who points out obvious problems in the American system (in this case, catastrophic environmental degradation) will be branded as dissidents and traitors, while empty patriotic sloganeering will be the easy answer to those who can't face the truth. The minority will resort to repressive tactics to both reinforce its know-nothing point of view and to suppress the suffering but unorganized majority. Despite this book's particular problems in setting and plot development, Brunner's take on the resulting social and political collapse seems depressingly and terrifyingly possible, and that's what makes this book a winner. [~doomsdayer520~]nswer to those who can't face the truth. The minority will resort to repressive tactics to both reinforce its know-nothing point of view and to suppress the suffering but unorganized majority. Despite this book's particular problems in setting and plot development, Brunner's take on the resulting social and political collapse seems depressingly and terrifyingly possible, and that's what makes this book a winner. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-04-29
263652:US	52697458	R1HGJMIU426GRD	1586480286	908273775	The King of California: J.G. Boswell and the Making of A Secret American Empire	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Surfaced and Harpooned	This far-reaching book is quite an accomplishment in biography and investigative journalism. Arax and Wartzman cover the history of the immense Boswell farming company of California, and the two guys named J.G. (the founding uncle and the current chairman, his nephew) who built the company into the largest cotton operation on Earth. Through cutthroat competitive instincts and political wheeling-and-dealing, the Boswells amassed tens of thousands of acres in California's Central Valley, and were instrumental in eliminating what was once the largest freshwater lake west of the Mississippi, as the former Tulare Lake was transformed into a festering network of levees, canals, and cesspools dedicated to the mass production of cotton. Thus, the Boswells built the area's environment, culture, and economics for their own profitability.<br /><br />The book also serves as a great exploration of the business of factory farming, detailing the racism and poverty experienced by Black and Mexican workers, as well as the shifty agricultural and hydrological politics of Big Ag in California - as the Boswells and their competitors/allies buy politicians, stack laws and regulations in their favor, and claim flood control as a reason to alter the natural course of rivers and to completely drain the vast Tulare Lake. Best of all, we see how big business really works out West, with the hypocrisy of so-called rugged outdoorsmen (actually pampered CEO's) who incessantly rail against government interference while also taking in millions of dollars in taxpayer subsidies that are meant to help the little guy. This book is immensely informative but does often get tied up in unnecessary details, such as descriptions of petty political shenanigans in the construction of a nearby dam. But the motto of the Boswell clan has been that a whale can't be harpooned if it doesn't come to the surface (a legacy of silence and obfuscation), but Arax and Wartzman have deftly cracked into the wall of secrecy surrounding the Boswells and their often ill-gotten empire, [~doomsdayer520~]cy surrounding the Boswells and their often ill-gotten empire, [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-04-26
266859:US	52697458	R1QZBXSXEE17DU	0441016847	604749280	Alien art	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Otters Have It	The premise of this short old SF novel from Dickson is a little silly and not quite strong enough to carry a large story, but the theme and moral are effective and thought provoking. Humans have colonized an alien world with an advance guard of rugged settlers who have taken to a backwoods lifestyle, while waiting for industrialists and corporate interests who will implement a development plan to turn the world into a profitable economic outpost. The natives of the planet are bear-sized, semi-intelligent otters who accidentally create works of art while gnawing on stone to keep their teeth in shape. The action of the story concerns a settler who plans to sell a native statue to the business interests, but befriends the otter who made it and in turn starts a popular rebellion, as he and the statue come to symbolize the purity of the world to the first wave of rugged colonists. Hence we have a pretty enlightening treatise on the pernicious effects of colonialism and globalization, and the ruination of native environments and cultures by money-obsessed interlopers who are blindly convinced by their own destructive dogma. And this is all in an enjoyable little novel that is worth picking up if you happen to see it at a library or used book store. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-04-23
267719:US	52697458	R3AC9LWNHPOMPH	0618135049	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Tolkien Equals Thousands of Writers and Thousands of Years	The Silmarillion volume is for Tolkien experts, or those with at least an intermediate knowledge of Middle Earth, who are looking for the weighty building blocks of the vast Tolkien mythology. This is more of reference work that JRR Tolkien created slowly over much of his career, as background for his other more structured works. This volume is constructed as a list of mythical fables, which are mostly self-contained with only minor threads of continuity throughout the book. Here Tolkien writes as a historian of folklore who has uncovered an intensive mythological history, and that's what makes this book so unique. But of course, Tolkien created this huge body of myths himself, approximating a cultural tradition that would take most societies thousands of years with thousands of storytellers. If anything, Tolkien's lifetime of work is astonishingly enormous, with an entire universe of characters, legends, and settings upon which his famous epics are built.<br /><br />With so many self-contained myths and stories that were apparently created as background and support for other works, there are readability issues with this book. A fiction volume that reads like a cultural history is surely a unique and fascinating concept, but here the reader will suffer from information overload. This can be partially attributed to Christopher Tolkien's hands-off editing (which is actually more like compiling and organizing here), as all but JRR completists would appreciate some brevity and condensing of the huge world of the Silmarillion. This can be seen in Christopher's index of places and character names in this volume, which is certainly helpful. But at more than forty pages in small font, the index illustrates the sheer intellectually imposing breadth of the mythology. Those who have built or are building an encyclopedic knowledge of Middle Earth will find this volume to be an invaluable compendium, but fans of an exciting read may want to stick with The Hobbit and The Lord of The Rings trilogy. [~doomsdayer520~]f The Rings trilogy. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-04-22
270085:US	52697458	R1WT30BNQO0H8	0375507213	353291376	Bloody Falls of the Coppermine: Madness, Murder, and the Collision of Cultures in the Arctic, 1913	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Nomads Meet Nomads	This fascinating piece of history and investigative journalism explores the ramifications brought about by the deaths of two priests in far northern Canada in 1913, at the hands of Eskimos in what could be considered a catastrophic case of cultural misunderstanding. McKay Jenkins offers an interesting look at the cultures of both the Eskimos and the first Whites who tried to enter the frozen north permanently, as well as showing some insight into each culture's worldview and proclivities toward misunderstanding the other. Jenkins then describes the impressive efforts of the Mounted Police in tracking down the two perpetrators and hauling them back to the white man's city for what may have been history's strangest trials - in which the media, judge, and lawyers behaved with a bizarre mix of cultural condescension, morbid fascination, and political correctness. Jenkins justifiably uses this sad but entertaining story as an example of the problems of colonialism, illustrating the difficulties faced by long-established cultures when they try to adapt to other environments or customs. Here we see that the Eskimos were indeed nomads but were far from uncivilized, as they had built a strong knowledge of their demanding environment over centuries, while the incoming Whites may have appeared to be civilized but were themselves cultural nomads who were nearly helpless in a forbidding landscape. The result, as seen in this book's story, was tragedy, but also a quite interesting cultural lesson about cooperation and humility. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-04-20
273120:US	52697458	R337C2H2Q1CG25	0805074422	871647100	Freethinkers: A History of American Secularism	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Know-Something Party	In recent decades, as America has been overrun by the \\"religiously correct\\" (a term that Susan Jacoby may have coined for this book), we have forgotten that our country's political system was built upon the separation of church and state and the desire to keep religious dogma out of practical governmental matters. Jacoby shows that in the past, this separation was supported both by opponents and proponents of organized religion. The church and state argument is the focus of most of this book, as Jacoby outlines the intellectual history of the strain of thought that has long strived to prevent dominant dogmas from monopolizing American life, for the good of popular self-government. These rational thinkers have been variously categorized as secularists, progressives, humanists, or freethinkers.<br /><br />Jacoby highlights important historical personages like Thomas Paine and Robert Ingersoll, as well as entire movements such as women's suffrage. feminism, and civil rights, who have all used rational thought to improve American history and society. Jacoby shoots down modern stereotypes claiming that the Founding Fathers envisioned a Christian nation, when in reality they kept the Constitution non-religious for very important reasons. We also learn that religious groups that would like to break down the fundamentally American separation of church and state have continually used predictable know-nothing epithets such as communist, socialist, or atheist to denigrate rationalist thinkers, while the modern religious right has been behaving just like groups they formerly opposed, such as the Catholics when that church had more political clout in the past.<br /><br />The final chapter of this book is a bit of problem as Jacoby slams the religious right and the current American administration for their certainly repressive and unconstitutional religious megalomania, and this could be seen as a detriment to Jacoby's otherwise rational analysis. But she also criticizes modern secularists and freethinkers for their cowardice and submission in the face of name-calling and power plays by the Right. So in the end, Jacoby has provided a solid intellectual history of a type of thought that has been far more important in American history than is currently acknowledged, and also issues a pretty strong call to arms for the rationalists who are still numerous but silent. [~doomsdayer520~]dern secularists and freethinkers for their cowardice and submission in the face of name-calling and power plays by the Right. So in the end, Jacoby has provided a solid intellectual history of a type of thought that has been far more important in American history than is currently acknowledged, and also issues a pretty strong call to arms for the rationalists who are still numerous but silent. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-04-18
277458:US	52697458	R2RGSRUL3C7HP1	0060568526	279319500	Overdosed America: The Broken Promise of American Medicine	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Sick First, Pay Later	For an expose on what's wrong with the American health care system these days, you can't ask for a better source than an experienced family doctor with a political bent like Abramson. His basic contention here is that the United States spends by far the most money on health care in the industrialized world, but we are near the bottom in almost every conceivable measure of public and personal health. So American health care is expensive but ineffective, and Abramson shows with plenty of evidence and experience that the problem is profiteering by drug and medical corporations. Respected medical journals and sources of health knowledge are becoming infiltrated by propaganda that is not only funded by for-profit companies, but is also built and spun to increase profitability. We have relentless marketing of drugs that are profitable but ineffective and even dangerous, while the industry invents diseases such as Social Anxiety Disorder, or pathologizes natural life developments like menopause. The industry also capitalizes on American cultural problems such as the obesity epidemic, but only promotes expensive drugs and procedures for after heath problems develop, rather than any sort of prevention. Let your health go down the drain first, then the industry will happily sell you the pills.<br /><br />Abramson utilizes his own practical experience to show that less expensive medications, as well as simple preventive measures and lifestyle choices such as exercise and healthy eating, are usually more effective in improving the health of Americans than the expensive corporate products that, thanks to ubiquitous advertising, everyone is now convinced they need. The only real problem with this book is that this great big-picture wisdom that Abramson uncovers is often lost under statistical minutiae, sapping the power from some of his arguments. He could also be faulted for criticizing certain articles in leading journals like JAMA and NEJM for caving in to corporate interests, while using other articles in those same journals to support his basic arguments. But in the end, after reading this informative but ultimately unsurprising book from Abramson, you'll know that you don't have those diseases and disorders that you keep hearing about on TV, and you probably don't need those pills. Instead, the drug companies need you. [~doomsdayer520~]s, while using other articles in those same journals to support his basic arguments. But in the end, after reading this informative but ultimately unsurprising book from Abramson, you'll know that you don't have those diseases and disorders that you keep hearing about on TV, and you probably don't need those pills. Instead, the drug companies need you. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-04-14
281888:US	52697458	R1I2YV3EAX2GW5	0843950463	280047850	Night in the Lonesome October	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Night of the Lonesome Self-Indulgence	Yes, Richard Laymon met an untimely demise right after this book was published, and my thoughts are with his family and fans. I have nothing against the gentleman in the slightest, but he still wrote an atrocious and immature novel. Sorry, but that's the way it is. The main character Ed goes to a college and lives in a town similar to those described plainly in Laymon's biography, so at least the basic setting and situation of this novel are autobiographical. It's no great stretch to imagine that Ed's brokenhearted state at the beginning of the story, after being dumped by his true love, probably parallels an episode from the author's young adulthood. The book then embarks on a fantasy of events of the type that the author probably wished happened in real life.<br /><br />Along with plenty of badmouthing of the ex-girlfriend, Ed easily (and very implausibly) has his way with not just one but two hot girls who give him plenty of easy action, and he even has guys pawing all over him. Ed's quite the stud for such an average character. He then chases down a villain and helps save the day. All of this is built on a ridiculously simplistic freaks-come-out-at-night plotline, with no explanation of who or what all these freaks really are, except for the fact that they're creepy and come out at night and inspire both women and men to throw themselves lustily at Ed. Laymon's writing is slow-moving and drawn-out, and this is an acceptable method of building suspense, though it only works partially here and mostly results in boredom. I have read that Laymon's other works are sophisticated and mature works of dread and horror, and I hope that's true. That would make those other books the polar opposites of this transparent and self-indulgent exercise in wish fulfillment. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-04-11
284035:US	52697458	R2IRC1ST5NHKQJ	0743210824	64180358	Dog Bites Man: City Shocked: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	City Shocked, Reader Unimpressed	Political satire is meant to both poke fun at the establishment and advance ideas or observations about the establishment's weaknesses. Here Duffy achieves these goals reasonably well, and I will admit that the book kept me interested. However there are many writing deficiencies that keep it from being a true success. Duffy does a great job illustrating how ridiculous single-issue political shenanigans can bring down a well-meaning politician, as here a New York mayor is ruined by a domino effect of ridiculous scandal-mongering after his bodyguards shoot a dog. Duffy shows how people claiming to be outraged and purporting to represent society's best interests are actually self-serving hypocrites trying to advance their own politics, with no attempt at compromise or upholding the functioning of the political entity. I'd bet Monica-gate was Duffy's inspiration here.<br /><br />Unfortunately the book is brought down by poor character development and numerous plot holes. Annoyingly, the first half of the book is almost entirely character descriptions. Whenever a character is introduced, regardless of whether that person will have any impact at all on later developments, Duffy piles on several paragraphs of character traits and fictional biography. But in the end, Duffy only shows that his characters are one-dimensional stereotypes with contrived quirks that don't nearly make them as unique as Duffy surely hoped. The second half of the book is a bit better in the satire department, but Duffy's villains are absolutely ridiculous and impossible to take seriously as political threats, those being a predictable Ann Richards-like governor and a scraggly band of animal liberationists who somehow manage to create far-reaching disruptions. Given modern politics, there are so many better models for political bad guys that Duffy barely looks like he's trying. I liked the basic theme and observational focus of this novel, but weak writing and many loose ends really sap its satirical potential. [~doomsdayer520~]cal potential. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-04-09
286816:US	52697458	R9XZ4CATA0VAG	076791676X	924240183	Tori Amos:  Piece by Piece	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Vision and Revision	Part biography, part discography, and part goddess-obsessed philosophy, this is an occasionally drifty but altogether fascinating book from Tori Amos. It helps to be familiar with Tori's career and basic worldview before you read this. While newbies might get befuddled, longtime fans will rejoice in how the book fleshes out the inner realms of Tori's vision. The book starts out with the childhood roots of her aesthetic, with wisdom from her Cherokee ancestors, and then the depths of her rigid Christian upbringing. As the book moves more toward Tori's publicly known works of music, we find that she has a highly esoteric creative process (no surprise really). To give a quick preview, she has a pantheistic knowledge of goddesses from multiple mythologies, and uses them not just as muses but as guardians of the songs.<br /><br />Some people in Tori's inner circle also contribute their thoughts to the book, and my favorite submissions are from the guys in Tori's current band, Matt Chamberlain and Jon Evans, as they show us more aspects of Tori's creative process from unique viewpoints of their own. Meanwhile the biographical portions of the book are a godsend for longtime fans. First of all, Tori talks about her infamous Y Kant Tori Read project in more detail than probably ever before. She then covers painful life passages with heartstopping detail, especially three horrific miscarriages and her acrimonious split from Atlantic Records. But the book ends more wistfully as Tori writes about happy motherhood and approaching middle age, and gives sage advice for other female musicians. And all the while, the songs are in the background, and you learn how all of the above aspects of Tori's life inform the music.<br /><br />While co-author Ann Powers gets credit for organizing the thoughts of Tori and her cohorts into book form, her often starry-eyed interludes are a problem, featuring lots of worshipful and pseudo-postmodern doggerel like \\"Amos now heartily enjoys putting her own mark on the iconography of desire.\\" Such interludes by Powers can tie things together at times but don't really add much to Tori's thoughts and insights. And in general the book is a little repetitive and lacking in brevity, with that too-much-of-a-good-thing feel of Tori's most recent albums. But rest assured that this book accomplishes a great deal in fleshing out the often abstract and mystical image Tori Amos has built for her longtime fans. [~doomsdayer520~]ng her own mark on the iconography of desire.\\" Such interludes by Powers can tie things together at times but don't really add much to Tori's thoughts and insights. And in general the book is a little repetitive and lacking in brevity, with that too-much-of-a-good-thing feel of Tori's most recent albums. But rest assured that this book accomplishes a great deal in fleshing out the often abstract and mystical image Tori Amos has built for her longtime fans. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-04-07
291938:US	52697458	R1QRTXDP1UE6GD	0312865848	166772368	Corrupting Dr. Nice	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Free Men Always Trust Naked Screaming Bed Poetry	As you can see from some of the less fun-loving previous reviewers, this wild time travel yarn from John Kessel does have many logical inconsistencies. Sure there are problems inherent in this book's characters meeting alternate versions of themselves from different time periods, and altering past events for their own purposes. But time travel itself, in any science fiction story, is illogical to start with, so quit bellyaching and enjoy a story that is both fun and dwells on many surprisingly deep themes. Kessel throws off a quickie (and admittedly under-elaborated) explanation of quantized time streams and something called \\"moment universes\\" to allow a thought-provoking premise on how the supposed miracle of time travel can be exploited by corporations for profit. Here, time travel is turned into slavish entertainment as historical people are used as theatre for rich time-hopping tourists, alternate time streams are exploited for natural resources and infinite profit-making opportunities, and the downtrodden are enslaved by public opinion and elitism. The basic plot of the story revolves around some crafty time bandits trying to game the new system, and a pretty implausible love story. Very well, but I also detect some deeper messages about corporate domination, colonialism, human identity, and religion in the face of time travel. And the book is pretty funny too. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-04-03
292235:US	52697458	R1HI92MSZYTTLZ	0060006927	390499095	The Great Mortality : An Intimate History of the Black Death, the Most Devastating Plague of All Time	Books	5	6	7	N	N	That Wild Plague Life	Most people familiar with history will know how the Black Death wiped out at least a third of the European population in the 14th century, but here John Kelly has created a hugely informative popular history of the plague and how regular people had to live (and die) with it. This enjoyable, though sometimes meandering, book gathers the most current knowledge of what the true causes and effects of the Black Death really were, and we learn that there is still some dispute about what exact disease really caused the plague, and that periodic plagues that snuffed out millions of people were depressingly common in the Middle Ages. The great strength of the book is Kelly's everyman writing style, making history come alive through the experiences of not just powerful monarchs or church officials, but also regular people who happened to be recorded in obscure antique documents. Kelly also looks into the strange social effects of so much death and misery, including the bizarre cult of the Flagellants, collapsing economies and social orders, and several waves of despicable anti-Semitism. There are some lessons to be learned from this medieval calamity. Even though we modern people have definitely improved upon the horrific sanitation and (un-)cleanliness habits of old Europe, as well as its ineffective medical quackery, one of the key instigators of the plague was modernized travel and communication. Nasty diseases really have a way of getting around, and John Kelly gives us a fun read on the resulting horror. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-04-02
297476:US	52697458	RWEHHJ59GKTI6	0292702906	457561290	Citizen's Primer for Conservation Activism: How to Fight Development in Your Community	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Strong Primer - If You're in a Small Wisconsin Town	Judith Perlman has successfully battled development projects, working for the preservation of natural areas and the defeat of sprawling subdivisions. She was involved in three efforts around her small town in Wisconsin, and two were successful while the third was in progress at the time of writing. Perlman's experience makes for a book that can be useful for those who are up against similar battles in their own communities. Some of Perlman's advice is fairly obvious, such as exercising your constitutional rights at public meetings or building coalitions with sympathetic organizations, though Perlman fleshes out these suggestions with strong practical details. Perlman also has some not-so-obvious recommendations as well, such as filming council meetings, or hiring lawyers to simply concoct stalling tactics when a governmental body is trying to rush a vote on a development plan. Such simple tactics can really alter the power balance when local citizens are up against developers and their pocketed local politicians.<br /><br />However, in the introduction to this book Perlman states that her goal is to extend her personal experiences and successes into general recommendations that can be used in many different types of situations. Unfortunately, this is only true if your battle is in a political environment that is not especially different from that faced by Perlman. Granted, some of her tactics will work anywhere, such as setting up 501(c)(3) tax status or making use of media resources and local experts. But the biggest forms of government ever faced by Perlman and her colleagues were small town planning boards and county commissions. The book offers no practical knowledge on battles that would take place in much different political environments, such as large cities, or public lands in which state or even federal government agencies would be involved. Additionally, the book's expertise is only based on resisting relatively small residential developments, and battles against large-scale commercial or industrial interests would also face much different political realities. So in the end, this book is certainly a practical and detailed primer for the conservation activist, but it is based on limited examples and the details apply mostly to very specific types of local efforts. [~doomsdayer520~]large-scale commercial or industrial interests would also face much different political realities. So in the end, this book is certainly a practical and detailed primer for the conservation activist, but it is based on limited examples and the details apply mostly to very specific types of local efforts. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-03-29
298847:US	52697458	RMH465TD9BDGQ	0471409766	412868525	Bad Astronomy: Misconceptions and Misuses Revealed, from Astrology to the Moon Landing "Hoax"	Books	5	10	10	N	N	You Win Again, Gravity!	Specific instances of incorrect astronomical knowledge amongst regular people aren't really much to be concerned about. But just like in all other sciences, the general public displays a pattern of inaccurate belief in all sorts of misinformation, dogma, and unsupported speculations. Philip Plait is one of those rational-thinking scientists who is concerned about improving the public's scientific knowledge for practical reasons, not unlike Carl Sagan, and this book is overflowing with rebuttals against incorrect popular theories in astronomy. Plait debunks a few theories that don't really deserve that much effort unless you're writing an entertaining book, such as astrology and the crackpot theories of Immanuel Velikovsky. Plait also tends to nitpick sometimes, getting a bit huffy over news reports about the Hubble telescope taking \\"photographs\\" when it actually transmits digital images. But otherwise, this book is an entertaining exercise in tackling dogma, with brutal and hilarious denunciations of the Apollo Hoax conspiracy theory and the repeated errors of Hollywood sci-fi flicks, among other misperceptions. (Plait commends The Simpsons for its efforts in accurate astronomy, and my title for this review is a line from its sister show Futurama, which really takes both real science and fantasy science to outrageous lengths.) Although I consider myself a learned and rational thinker on these matters, even I was surprised by some of Plait's real answers in this book, especially when it comes to how the moon affects the tides and whether or not water really goes down the drain in the opposite direction if you're down under. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-03-28
301109:US	52697458	R2EPUR9DY9H1ZA	006093736X	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded: August 27, 1883	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A History That Oozes Rather Than Erupts	Here Simon Winchester has created an interesting but rather unfocused social and scientific history of the great Krakatoa eruption of 1883. The book gets off to a slow start as Winchester very gradually builds his background information to support his contentions about the great worldwide importance of the eruption. The eruption itself doesn't come until more than halfway through the book, preceded by a rather spotty look at colonial Indonesia and a history of the sciences of volcanism and plate tectonics. All the while, Winchester has to keep reminding the reader that these lengthy tangential discussions are still leading up to the great Krakatoa eruption. Thus we have an easygoing gentleman's history that can't quite stick to the main topic at hand, while Winchester's writing sometimes gets too artistic for its own good, with sentences like \\"...the distant tinklings of the gamelan and the rhythm of a great drum sounding what she thought was a threnody.\\" At long last, a great discussion of the eruption itself and its destructive effects gets the book rolling, while Winchester constructs a good argument about how the devastation resulted in anti-colonial uprisings in Indonesia a few years later. However, throughout the book, Winchester keeps dropping hints about how Krakatoa has had vast effects on human society and world knowledge down through history, but this grand connection just doesn't come together. This is still a generally interesting history of a mindboggling natural disaster, but in its ramblings it doesn't quite reach its destination. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-03-26
305563:US	52697458	R3RJSB1ZU6CJD2	0375703713	957405941	More Than Human	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Evolutionary Baby Steps	This early-50s SF classic from Theodore Sturgeon somewhat resembles \\"Childhood's End\\" by Arthur C. Clarke, in that seemingly weird kids actually herald the next step in human evolution. However, Sturgeon uses this concept for much more chilling and disturbing ends. Here, kids with psychic powers have been rejected by society and their parents and are branded as troublemakers and halfwits, when they are actually searching for others who can complement their powers and make them feel complete. The strange youngsters of the story have suffered their way through neglect and hatred until finally finding each other, and proceed to merge their psychic powers and become a mental superbeing that surpasses current humanity. But since they're just kids, they don't realize what they're doing or that they're different. They also lack morals and ethics, and use their powers unwisely until realizing that they still need that crucial connection with regular people. This thematic backdrop results in a very melancholy and disturbing atmosphere to the story. Note that this book is put together in a fashion common for golden age SF, in the form of interconnected short stories that were originally serialized in fan magazines. This makes the flow of the overall story a bit fragmented and disjointed, while believable character development takes a back seat to exercises in plot and theme construction. But Sturgeon still delivered a decidedly haunting treatise on what it truly means to be human - or more than human. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-03-22
306929:US	52697458	R2Q2IZMGIYRWM7	0385174438	869202821	Asimov on Science Fiction	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Learn from the Master	In addition to writing mountains of classic and influential science fiction, Isaac Asimov also wrote plenty about science fiction, including its history, its effects on culture, and how to write it. This book consists of 55 essays Asimov wrote on these topics, and most of them are 3-5 pages long and appeared as editorials in the science fiction magazines of the late 70s (including Asimov's own magazine). Since the essays were created for different publications at different times, the subject matter gets repetitive, and specific examples are outdated. However, Asimov fans will love his always irreverent wit and sly humor, as well as his vast range of knowledge on a plethora of topics. Winning essays here include appraisals of Asimov's contemporaries and fellow SF masters (including the heavily worshipped golden age editor John Campbell), a very harsh review of Orwell's \\"1984,\\" some surprising reasons why Asimov liked \\"Star Wars\\" but hated \\"Battlestar Galactica\\" (remember when the essays were written), and several varied pieces on the processes of writing good science fiction. You can't ask for a better authority on such matters than Asimov. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-03-21
310466:US	52697458	R1WHN0E2AM59L9	0500051135	689897306	The Fall of the Ancient Maya: Solving the Mystery of the Maya Collapse	Books	3	23	27	N	N	Mayanism Goes Postmodern	David Webster is surely one of the most knowledgeable experts on the Maya, and this book is a mostly useful summary of current knowledge on that fascinating culture and its mysterious demise. Actually, the school of archeology that Webster belongs to has found, with convincing evidence, that after the classic age (ending around AD 900) the Maya did not have a sudden doomsday-like catastrophe that wiped them off the face of the Earth. Instead, slow-moving political pressures related to overpopulation and exhaustion of natural resources led to different city-states falling out of influence at different times, as the Maya very slowly transitioned into a less organized form of society. In fact Maya people still live in the area to this day and organized populations even confronted the Spanish conquistadors, but their \\"glory days\\" of huge monuments and designed cities were behind them. This is Webster's basic explanation for the \\"fall,\\" and in any case he is only talking about the classic period of Maya civilization, rather than the nonsensical disappearance of millions of people.<br /><br />This is all perfectly fascinating from an archeological standpoint, but the book is frustrating due to Webster's attitudes and writing style. He begins with rather condescending complaints about the supposed ignorance of the public on this subject, possibly turning off beginners who might be reading this book out of informed curiosity. Most importantly, Webster's thinking style is pure academic postmodernism, dwelling primarily on obtuse professorial abstractions like reconstructing texts and inventing historical meta-narratives. Webster spends dozens of pages arguing about the semantics of terms like \\"civilization\\" and \\"city,\\" going off on tangents that will have little interest to anyone outside of professorland. And finally, a very large portion of the book consists of Webster rebutting and debunking other theories about the Maya, and his only way of proving his own theories (however believable they may be) is through a process of elimination and sheer force of will. [~doomsdayer520~]wever believable they may be) is through a process of elimination and sheer force of will. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-03-18
312673:US	52697458	R1TTFB3N53A90X	0345460944	516684777	The Best Time Travel Stories of the 20th Century: Stories by Arthur C. Clarke, Jack Finney, Joe Haldeman, Ursula K. Le Guin,	Books	5	76	81	N	N	Forwardback to Yestermorrow	A compilation such as this proves that a genre can be difficult to define, and that talented writers can explore what appears to be a simple theme in myriad unexpected fashions. That's what makes this compendium of classic time travel stories such fun to read. Most of the short stories here, spanning from the 1940s to the 1990s, examine the personal or social ramifications of traveling through time and messing things up, and this strong focus can be attributed to editors Turtledove and Greenburg. The archetypal masterpiece about how even slightly altering the past can screw up the present, Ray Bradbury's awesome \\"A Sound of Thunder,\\" is included here. That's the story from which most modern time travel literature springs, and it's also the source of the celebrated butterfly effect, though Bradbury didn't use that exact term. Other influential early classics such as \\"Time's Arrow\\" by Arthur C. Clarke and \\"A Gun for Dinosaur\\" by L. Sprague de Camp are also included. For the later stories, there are a few missteps, like the Vietnam obsession of Joe Haldeman's \\"Anniversary Project,\\" and the heavy-handed gender politics of Ursula K. Leguin's \\"Another Story or The Fisherman of the Inland Sea.\\" But most of the rest of the collection is perfectly enjoyable, with winners like Poul Anderson's \\"The Man Who Came Early,\\" which illustrates how a modern American would be both unbearably obnoxious and pathetically helpless in medieval times, and R.A. Lafferty's \\"Rainbird\\" in which an inventor can't stop going back in time to set his younger self on a different path, with outlandish results. Remember - if you ever travel through time, don't change anything! [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-03-16
318716:US	52697458	R2FGUP4AGL6N2A	1559638354	291971700	Perverse Subsidies: How Tax Dollars Can Undercut the Environment and the Economy	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Subsidies Made Interesting then Boring Again	Early in this book, Norman Myers states that the study of subsidies can actually be interesting, and he's right because many (if not most) subsidies are \\"perverse.\\" This means that taxpayer-funded assistance to politically well-connected constituencies usually ends up costing general society far more than the costs that were initially targeted. Good examples in America include subsidizing farmers to grow so much of a crop that the price of that crop crashes, which creates the need for another subsidy to destroy or store the surplus (American farmers were paid to destroy a billion oranges in the 1990s); subsidizing fishermen to catch so many fish that the populations are decimated, to be replenished by taxpayer-funded restocking schemes; or subsidizing the removal of forests in watershed areas, then having all of society pay for the resulting water pollution and soil erosion.<br /><br />This book contains myriad examples of this economic perversity, but the problem is the quantitative (that is, all numbers) methodology. Myers admits early on that data is hard to come by in this discipline, and that's understandable, but the book is still an interminable list of thousands of numbers and figures, which are usually estimated so widely as to be unworkable. As just one example among hundreds, we learn that transportation-related health care costs in America are somewhere between $42 and $182 billion. There are a few higher-level insights about the true social and environmental effects of this madness, but they usually just appear briefly amidst a boring parade of statistical analysis. Watch for the numbers compiled here to be used as references in far more interesting books, that will take a useful qualitative and categorical approach to broad issues that appear occasionally here, but are not dwelled on in any engaging fashion. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-03-11
321725:US	52697458	R2NOXJ1FQ8PULM	0192803409	531868996	The Enigmas of Easter Island	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Final Enigma	This is likely the most comprehensive and authoritative work available on the mysteries of Easter Island, concerning its unique culture and its famous statues. The writing here is rather dry, with only occasional glimmers of personality, though the knowledge presented is robust and is usually entirely readable for the interested layperson. The book gets off to a pretty slow start as Flenley and Bahn unnecessarily debunk the discredited theories of Thor Heyerdahl, while they seem to have a colonialist-style disdain for the memories of the present Easter Islanders. The book eventually improves, presenting a general history of the island and an overview of its isolated brand of Polynesian culture. Utilizing archeology, linguistics, botany, anthropology and other disciplines, we learn here that the Easter Island culture evolved out of a likely total isolation from their Polynesian kin (it's one of the most remote inhabited places on Earth), adapted to specific environmental challenges, and developed a highly unique society focused on building giant statues and monuments. But at some point the closed cultural and environmental system collapsed, probably with deforestation and soil erosion as the root causes, and the rich island culture broke down into mayhem and anarchy. This is a chilling lesson for humankind, though Flenley and Bahn wrap up the book with a pretty weak and predictable environmental message for the world. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-03-09
323545:US	52697458	R2TAN7EGY9OMBH	0312186967	776066517	Publish and Perish: Three Tales of Tenure and Terror	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Academics of Angst	This collection of three novellas gets points for creativity and occasional moments of disconcerting humor, but the stories aren't really that scary and tend toward the predictable. Hynes' unusual milieu is the strangely stressful world of academia, in which aspiring professors think in fatuous postmodern gibberish about the deconstruction of texts or gender as performance, and your career is over if you can't get your dry paper published in a crusty journal that is only read by other professors. I have been in graduate school so I've been exposed to this useless angst, and quickly decided that it was not the life for me. Hynes writes about the darker impulses of those who have few goals except gaining academic tenure and cruelly crushing their competitors, in pursuit of meager professional rewards. There can't be that many fiction writers working within this subject matter, though the first two stories here don't really do anything interesting with it. \\"Queen of the Jungle\\" is little more than a cranky mid-life crisis yarn, while \\"99\\" is predictable and contrived, with nonsensical character development and a climax that you can see coming from a mile away. \\"Casting the Runes\\" is the most successful story here, dealing with witchcraft and professorial politics, and Hynes deserves credit for the hilarious scene in which riot grrrls storm a moribund academic conference. These stories are hardly pinnacles of the terror genre, but Hynes does creatively examine this world whose inhabitants are under a great deal of stress and angst, which no one out in the real world could possibly care about. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-03-08
325538:US	52697458	R2HC8MC41BT7BH	1576753018	331881073	Confessions of an Economic Hit Man	Books	5	17	22	N	N	A Game As Old As Empire	It took a lot of guts for John Perkins to write this book, and while his soul-searching seems a bit maudlin and hollow at times, he is definitely concerned and apologetic about the profession he used to be in, and in which many otherwise conscientious Americans continue to be involved. Perkins was an analyst in the complex that he calls the Corporatocracy, in which American-based corporations spread economic imperialism into the developing world under the guise of aid, development, and security. The basic strategy is to convince leaders of third world nations to accept loans from the World Bank or other U.S.-controlled institutions, in amounts far beyond what they need and which their nations could never pay back. American taxpayers' money then flows temporarily into these nations to pay American corporations, like the ubiquitous multinationals Bechtel or Halliburton, to build energy and transportation infrastructure. The money hence goes straight into the pockets of these elite American companies, while the developing nations are ensnared in crushing levels of debt. Their inability to pay back the loans gives the U.S. justification to build military bases, appropriate land for the securing of energy supplies, fight wars against indigenous peoples, and even assassinate leaders who refuse to cave in to the American economic imperialism (Perkins personally knew the presidents of Panama and Ecuador who suffered that fate in the early 1980s).<br /><br />Perkins describes examples of these insidious practices in several different nations in which he had a hand in creating them, as a member of an influential international consulting firm, and ruefully looks back at the economic and social ruination that has resulted everywhere this system has been imposed. He also convincingly displays how this is not a conspiracy, but an inherent tendency in the American social and economic system, and that American-backed corporatism is becoming the most widespread political philosophy in the world, making all other economic systems (even traditional capitalism) obsolete. Next time you hear words like freedom, democracy, and development being used to justify American actions overseas (including current military efforts), think again. American money and lives are being expended to make corporations richer, and to make everyone else poorer and less secure. [~doomsdayer520~]hy in the world, making all other economic systems (even traditional capitalism) obsolete. Next time you hear words like freedom, democracy, and development being used to justify American actions overseas (including current military efforts), think again. American money and lives are being expended to make corporations richer, and to make everyone else poorer and less secure. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-03-06
327298:US	52697458	R29351YHYTMG62	0553378236	729024433	Daemonomania	Books	3	7	16	N	N	Prosaicomania	John Crowley is surely a writer's writer - that is, he would rather impress other writers with his craft than engage readers with exciting plotlines or empathetic characters. I have nothing against other reviewers who are amazed by Crowley's intricate layering of philosophies and his mastery of language, but I consider it all self-indulgent, pretentious, and boring. There is certainly a plethora of intriguing wordplay here, representing twisted realities and time unstuck, but Crowley also frequently overdoes it (badly) with annoying slush like \\"Where he had once. The sunporch where.\\" Exploring the depths of prose can only get you so far with readers who don't feel like taking months to read a book slowly to soak in all the words, especially when the plot ultimately fails to secure one's attention for any extended amount of time.<br /><br />The basic premise of this novel is wonderfully intriguing, featuring different ends of the world for different observers, with occult mysticism and medieval philosophy getting warped into diverging time streams and realities in the present. However, this book's jacket makes no mention that it is a continuation of some of Crowley's previous books, so the unfamiliar reader is confronted with ideas that are already in progress with inadequate explanations. Crowley doesn't even bother to wrap up all the story's possibilities in this book (or the previous installments). A heavily anti-climactic conclusion, which deals more with developments in the philosophy rather than the plot or the characters, promises nothing except yet another continuation into the next book that might come out someday whenever Crowley gets around to it. Fans of long-winded and pretentious literary contortions are surely waiting with bated breath, but the rest of us will have no trouble moving on to something else more readable. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-03-05
331643:US	52697458	R1STJ1L1Q39R0R	0670033375	635086986	Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Dubious Doomsdays	I really wanted to love this book, because I was bowled over by Diamond's previous tour-de-force \\"Guns, Germs, and Steel.\\" This book is also overflowing with fascinating information about the vast movements of human geography and culture, but it's less focused and conclusive. Diamond's analyses here about societies that collapsed in the past don't quite translate completely into a foolproof understanding of either the problems or potential solutions facing modern society. The major issue is the sequencing of the book into separate parts that are not integrated very well. This could have been a lean-and-mean powerhouse if it had stuck with examining those old civilizations, but trouble arises with Diamond's attempted connections to the modern world.<br /><br />Part 1 introduces the book with some revealing investigation into the environmental and economic problems currently facing Montana, as a prelude. The true meat of the book is Part 2, in which Diamond analyzes, usually with remarkable depth, ancient societies that really collapsed, as a result of environmental problems brought on by pressures in political organization, economics, and population growth. This works spectacularly for Diamond's reporting on Easter Island and the Anasazi of the American Southwest. But unfortunately, his history of the Mayans neglects a lot of freely available documentation that would detract from his thesis concerning environmental degradation, while his coverage of the Norse colony in Greenland is rife with speculation on what really happened to its inhabitants. He also has inconsistent opinions on the alteration of nature, especially with large scale fishing and clearing of land for agriculture, implying that these were environmentally successful in places like medieval Japan and modern New Guinea, but destructive for civilizations elsewhere.<br /><br />This book runs into real trouble in Parts 3 and 4, in which Diamond extends his thesis on environmental collapse toward modern societies. His examinations of the deeper issues behind the Rwanda genocide and the unsustainable European political/economic system in Australia are insightful and fascinating. However, once again Diamond's stances show inconsistency, especially toward physical and economic globalization - which sometimes nurture civilizations but may destroy others; and toward the \\"exporting\\" of deforestation and pollution from powerful to weaker nations - especially in regards to China preserving its own forests (which leads to deforestation elsewhere) but accepting incoming electronic garbage and pollution. Diamond almost totally lost me in Chapter 15, an examination of pro-environmental business practices that smacks of apologetics and an attempted deflection of potential criticism toward the book from business interests. Fortunately the final chapter argues convincingly that the environmental issues faced by those old collapsed civilizations are definitely worth worrying about now, and Diamond has substantial respect for all the political realities involved. However, the connections between ancient and modern aren't as cut-and-dried as Diamond implies, resulting in a reliance on speculation that saps some of the power from this otherwise fascinating book. [~doomsdayer520~]societies. His examinations of the deeper issues behind the Rwanda genocide and the unsustainable European political/economic system in Australia are insightful and fascinating. However, once again Diamond's stances show inconsistency, especially toward physical and economic globalization - which sometimes nurture civilizations but may destroy others; and toward the \\"exporting\\" of deforestation and pollution from powerful to weaker nations - especially in regards to China preserving its own forests (which leads to deforestation elsewhere) but accepting incoming electronic garbage and pollution. Diamond almost totally lost me in Chapter 15, an examination of pro-environmental business practices that smacks of apologetics and an attempted deflection of potential criticism toward the book from business interests. Fortunately the final chapter argues convincingly that the environmental issues faced by those old collapsed civilizations are definitely worth worrying about now, and Diamond has substantial respect for all the political realities involved. However, the connections between ancient and modern aren't as cut-and-dried as Diamond implies, resulting in a reliance on speculation that saps some of the power from this otherwise fascinating book. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-03-01
339064:US	52697458	RBXS2Q3B9Q9X7	006251475X	916470429	Essential Sufism	Books	4	28	32	N	N	To Be a Lump of Sifted Earth	This is a solid introduction to the basic tenets of Sufism. Described as the impatient mystics of Islam, Sufis seek God all the time in all living things and actions, rather than just waiting for the hereafter. Interestingly, they also call themselves \\"lovers\\" because they have an active and continuous love for the Almighty. Sufism can be of interest to non-Muslims because it is made up of many tenets that are beyond particular belief systems, not unlike Buddhism or Confucianism, and can be applied while practicing other religions. (Though I am not claiming to be an expert on comparative religion here.) After some useful introductory descriptions, this book contains mostly parables and aphorisms, some from the Koran but mostly from later poets and mystics, that shed light on the Sufi belief system. Included are interesting takes on key concepts like charity, daily life, education, and one's place in the universal scheme of things; as well as refreshing stances on Satan and death that may seem alien to the Westerner but make a lot of sense. This compendium may not be intensive enough to make you a convert, but it certainly provides much enlightenment and spiritual food for thought. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-02-23
341682:US	52697458	R2AX19NJY5NS71	1559638796	197798375	One With Nineveh: Politics, Consumption, and the Human Future	Books	2	46	58	N	N	Complaints and Idealism	I am not giving this book an unfavorable review because I'm some reactionary anti-environmentalist. In fact I am definitely an environmentalist, or better yet a widely-read conservationist. This book is the equivalent of a big Chinese food dinner - there's a lot of it, but it does little to satisfy your hunger. The book may be useful to students or others who are beginning to build their familiarity and interest in environmental issues. But if you are at all knowledgeable about the current state of such matters in any way, you will learn absolutely nothing new in this book.<br /><br />Approximately the first half of the book is merely a summary of current conservationist knowledge and complaints from the Ehrlichs about their social problems of choice. All the villains are here, and they keep appearing again and again and again - SUVs, overpopulation, social inequality, rampant consumerism, economic imperialism (also known as free trade and globalization), and the extreme anti-green politics of the Bush administration. How these issues lead to environmental problems is good to know, of course, but if you're involved in any level of conservationism then you know this stuff already. This weakness of the book is illustrated by the fact that it is extremely well cited - there are several hundred works referenced and more than a thousand footnotes. However, this book is so widely researched that it becomes merely a giant summary of existing knowledge borrowed from other writers, with little new analysis or insight from the Ehrlichs.<br /><br />Meanwhile, the second half of the book deteriorates into social criticism that continues to repeat complaints about the basic problems mentioned above, with a disconcertingly know-it-all and condescending stance against modern culture and technology. The attempted solutions of the last few chapters are little more than utopian ideals that would require vast changes to current economic and political structures, indicating a very thin understanding of those two theoretical areas. The final statement made by the Ehrlichs in this book is \\"idealism can be realism,\\" but I beg to differ. That's just an excuse for an absence of concrete ideas. Once again, if you're starting to learn about the political stances of the conservation movement, this book is a passable summary of current knowledge and opinions. But if you're looking for new ideas or analysis, all you'll find are complaints and idealism. [~doomsdayer520~]thin understanding of those two theoretical areas. The final statement made by the Ehrlichs in this book is \\"idealism can be realism,\\" but I beg to differ. That's just an excuse for an absence of concrete ideas. Once again, if you're starting to learn about the political stances of the conservation movement, this book is a passable summary of current knowledge and opinions. But if you're looking for new ideas or analysis, all you'll find are complaints and idealism. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-02-21
344326:US	52697458	R2A4NI9MSIP6D9	0393731251	903611224	A Field Guide to Sprawl	Books	5	9	15	N	N	Nature Hater's Paradise	This collection of outstanding aerial photos illustrates the nonsensical contempt for nature inherent in American social and economic systems, as embodied by sprawl. We build wasteful suburbs on productive farmland, and destroy watersheds to make way for developments that then need taxpayer-supported water systems. We've become so dependent on cars for all errands and social calls that developers don't even bother to make it possible to walk anywhere, while we mistakenly equate large lot sizes with privacy and outdoor solitude. We then give new soulless housing subdivisions and concentrated shopping districts names, featuring words like \\"Woods\\" or \\"Creek,\\" that are mockeries of the ecosystems that were destroyed in order to build them. Dolores Hayden starts this book with various explanations for this unique brand of American waste, especially in terms of tax breaks and legal loopholes that encourage the development of virgin territory and the abandonment of formerly constructed areas. And don't forget the political influence of the real estate, construction, and transportation lobbies.<br /><br />After the quick and informative introduction, the book is made up of remarkable and usually cringe-inducing aerial photos, by aviator Jim Wark, of sprawl in all its many forms. Hayden and Wark find real examples of many different categories of sprawl, featuring names coined by either developers or critics, such as boomburb, greenfield (a hideously inaccurate title), pod, and privatopia. These stunning and often disturbing photos truly illustrate the ridiculous nature of American sprawl in all its shapes and sizes. If you find yourself concerned by the nature of these photos, you may end up wishing you lived in a place where it was still possible to interact with your neighbors daily and do your errands easily on foot. Find a spot like that before they're all gone. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-02-19
344923:US	52697458	RLAT1Q7GH7X2	0765307901	277563516	Innocents Aboard: New Fantasy Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Especially the Made-Up Parts	This short story collection has given Gene Wolfe a break from the gigantic sweeping epics of his more famous volumes, so he can explore some less portentous and more whimsical ideas. The stories here include everything from typical fantasy and hard science, to time travel and semi-autobiography. One reoccurring concept in these stories is the fine line between magic and reality, which is Wolfe's forte. Winners here include the disturbing xenophobia tale \\"The Waif,\\" a bizarre mix of Arthurian chivalry and alternate history in \\"Under Hill,\\" an exploration of the true purpose of people who share the author's last name in \\"Wolfer,\\" and a strangely disconcerting tale of twisted time travel to ancient Greece in \\"The Lost Pilgrim.\\" A slight weakness of this collection is the inclusion of several short stories that appear to be simple exercises in exploratory writing based on old fairy tales and legends. Such stories are fun to read but tend to not really go anywhere, such as \\"The Sailor Who Sailed After the Sun,\\" \\"A Fish Story,\\" or \\"The Eleventh City\\" - though one exception is the intriguing stylized lullaby \\"The Old Woman Whose Rolling Pin is the Sun,\\" which was created for Wolfe's granddaughter. But overall this is a very engaging, if sometimes underwhelming, collection of tales from one of the true masters of speculative fiction. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-02-18
348338:US	52697458	R3X0WKKAEY3WY	081541224X	279102168	Sideshow: Kissinger, Nixon, and the Destruction of Cambodia	Books	5	21	24	N	N	The Madman Theory of War	Really bad decisions made by the Nixon administration toward Indochina and the Vietnam War are now fairly obvious. However, we must remember how difficult this type of investigation would have been back when Shawcross did his intensive research back in the late 70s. Here Shawcross builds a very hard-to-dismiss case against Nixon and Henry Kissinger, in terms of how their problematic military and diplomatic strategies at least indirectly led to the hideous destruction of Cambodia (in fact, one of Nixon's documented strategies was to make the Communists think he was a madman, assuming they'd get scared and give up).<br /><br />During the earlier years of the war, Cambodia was a relatively tranquil nation that was trying to remain neutral. But the country was being used as a hideout by North Vietnamese soldiers, leading to bombing by the Americans. Here Shawcross shows how Nixon and Kissinger made use of political trickery and overhyped threats to keep the bombing going to an extent that was far more destructive than necessary. As a bonus, this book also documents the wire-tapping paranoia and unconstitutional shenanigans in the Nixon White House. Shawcross is especially tough on Kissinger, finding that he disregarded the integrity and safety of Cambodia (which he had only ever visited for four hours), in favor of short-term political advantages and unyielding ideology. The relentless bombing destabilized Cambodian society, leading indirectly to the hideous genocide and societal destruction enacted by the Khmer Rouge a few years later. It is difficult to argue with Shawcross' heavily researched conclusions, and the hellish wholesale collapse of Cambodia (of a type never before seen in modern history) becomes all the more poignant as a result.<br /><br />Be sure to get an edition of this book from 1986 or after, in which Shawcross adds materials from the political firefight that the book ignited. Kissinger was obviously upset and went to great lengths, through articles written by his lackey Peter Rodman, to try and disprove Shawcross' assertions. If your copy of this book contains these articles, you'll be quite bemused by Rodman's evasive, dissembling, and downright condescending rebuttal attempts, which are easily shot down by Shawcross. This war of words in itself proves that Kissinger had, and always will have, a lot to answer for. [~doomsdayer520~]cles written by his lackey Peter Rodman, to try and disprove Shawcross' assertions. If your copy of this book contains these articles, you'll be quite bemused by Rodman's evasive, dissembling, and downright condescending rebuttal attempts, which are easily shot down by Shawcross. This war of words in itself proves that Kissinger had, and always will have, a lot to answer for. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-02-16
351892:US	52697458	R15E8373CQ0ZPW	1931498520	66454305	Welcome to the Machine: Science, Surveillance, and the Culture of Control	Books	4	25	28	N	N	Security is Slavery	This book did not turn out to be what I expected, given the publisher's description, but that's okay. This is not an investigative report or in-depth description of new surveillance and tracking technologies. Instead, these new technologies are used as examples in a modern philosophical screed by Jensen (with an unclear amount of input from George Draffan) on the human condition vis-&agrave;-vis the modern surveillance state, in a hard-hitting tome that is usually downright fun to read, and often terrifying. So instead of being blandly scientific, what we have here is an exploratory essay that is hugely insightful on the current state of humanity, and is also engagingly polemical, sarcastic, inflammatory, and even condescending in places. The book must be docked one star because the sarcasm and guilt-tripping sometimes sap the power from Jensen's arguments, while his basic points become very repetitive as the book lurches along. The recommendations for improving the current state of humanity are also pretty thin, not reaching too far beyond basic resistance, class struggle, and community. But in the end we do have a truly terrifying vision of how modern technologies in surveillance, information gathering, biotech, and computing are putting the common man under more control than ever. Under the guise of convenience, efficiency, and (especially in the most recent times) security and protection, governments and corporations have more control over the lives of common people than ever before, and it's only going to get worse. Despite the minor weaknesses in this book's particular writing style, you'll find that Derrick Jensen is a brilliant modern humanist philosopher, and if that's what you expect from this book then you'll be pleased - and greatly disturbed. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-02-12
354425:US	52697458	RX4ZA99SZ7E4R	0451453565	109192212	The Hollowing	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Interdimensional Forest	Robert Holdstock has come up with a remarkable literary creation with his Mythago Wood. A deceptively small wooded lot next to an English village turns out to be a vast haunted forest where the laws of time and space are twisted beyond comprehension. The wood is inhabited by figures from the mythologies of many different lands and eras, with scenes powered by the imaginations of the mortals that have found themselves enthralled by the forest. This is a great concept that Holdstock has explored in several books, but unfortunately in this one the concept doesn't come to full fruition. The book starts strongly as the protagonist Richard enters the wood to find the spirit of his son Alex, who is believed by everyone else to be dead, but whose haunted imagination has become one with the even more haunted forest, bringing out the worst of mythological horrors. But for some reason this book drastically loses focus in Part Three, where the chapters start to become detached explorations by Holdstock of various old myths with only tangential connections to the main storyline, including one ridiculously long chapter dwelling on a past-their-prime Jason and the Argonauts. More fundamentally, from beneath all this mythological doodling, Holdstock has not adequately explained either the true workings of Mythago Wood, nor Alex's spiritual connection to it. Holdstock's Mythago Wood premise is surely fascinating, but unfortunately this strangely schizophrenic installment fails to make full use of the concept's potential. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-02-10
356345:US	52697458	RMU6PN53MN1RB	0811731804	76568355	Backpacking Pennsylvania: 37 Great Hikes	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Excellent Intro to PA's Surprising Outdoor Opportunities	Yes it's possible, in \\"industrialized\\" Pennsylvania of all places, to hike for days without seeing a single other person, and outdoor enthusiasts from throughout the Northeast should be more familiar with the Pennsylvania backpacking experience. I'm a native of the state who has been seriously hiking and backpacking for years, and I'm still continually amazed by the variety and extensiveness of Pennsylvania's long-distance hiking trails. Amid the state's surprisingly remote and wild areas are dozens of trails that exceed 20 miles in length, and several that surpass 100 miles. There is far more to Pennsylvania backpacking than the famous Appalachian Trail, which Jeff Mitchell accurately describes as one of the least interesting trails in the state. This book is not meant to be a true guide for any of the trails described, but summarizes the long-distance hiking opportunities available. Therefore, unless you really know what you're doing, following trails with this book will be difficult given its abbreviated travelogues and very non-detailed maps, so don't try to do an extensive trip *only* with this book. Detailed trail guides and/or maps are usually available elsewhere.<br /><br />What makes this book a real winner is an outstanding introduction concerning various backpacking issues and challenges, and excellent geographical info for each trail described, especially in terms of trail conditions, locations of trailheads, and contact information. I have completed several of Pennsylvania's long-distance trails, especially in the central and north-central regions of the state, and given Mitchell's knowledgeable and accurate writing I can attest that he has either hiked these trails himself or has talked extensively with people who have. For this reason I am confident about his descriptions of the trails I haven't yet tackled, and you should be too. So if you're in Pennsylvania but are unaware of the adventures in store, this book is an outstanding introduction to our vast backpacking opportunities. [~doomsdayer520~]vast backpacking opportunities. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-02-08
358042:US	52697458	R2KGYDSE2DCEOE	0195157028	263495852	Fear: The History of a Political Idea	Books	3	47	55	N	N	Be Very Afraid	Throughout history, leaders have made use of fear to consolidate their power. Repressive dictators of the Stalin variety inflict fear directly on their populations, while those of the Hitler variety enforce obedience by claiming threats from \\"others\\" either inside or outside the territory. In fact, this is taking place in America right this minute, though not in such a dictatorial fashion. Here Corey Robin constructs an initially fascinating intellectual history of the use of fear by heads of state, through the works of philosophers who have explored the concept. This includes informative and occasionally revisionist analyses of the long misinterpreted or forgotten writings of Thomas Hobbes, Baron de Montesquieu, Alexis de Tocqueville, and Hannah Arendt. The first two-thirds of the book take us on an educational journey through the political fear, terror, anxiety, and totalitarianism observed upon by these philosophers.<br /><br />Unfortunately this book derails in the final third, in which Robin attempts to tie these concepts into current events, but misses the boat badly. The supposedly authoritative closing chapter is an anemic summary of the lack of privacy in the workplace and corporate actions against unions. Robin postulates that this phenomenon indicates political fear amongst the workforce, but fails to adequately explain how this is so, missing the structural phenomena engendered by the ideological and economic connections between many corporate leaders and politicians. More fundamentally, Robin leans primarily toward blaming political \\"liberalism\\" for modern political fear of any stripe. I realize that Robin uses the intellectual political science definition of \\"liberalism\\" in terms of active government, which is far less accusatory than the version of that term used by politicians and media pundits. But any criticism of the equally inclusive practice of conservatism (once again, not just the pundit's definition of the term) is strangely missing from the book, even in Robin's long discussions of the (mostly) rightist-fueled McCarthyism. This indicates a creeping personal outlook into a book that started strongly and objectively.<br /><br />And finally, there is a catastrophic omission here, especially since Robin claims that the book was partially inspired by 9/11 and subsequent events - the current conservative administration's use of fear, especially of terrorist attacks, to drum up support not just for war but their own policies and political plans. Regardless of whether Robin (or the reader) would be for or against current political trends, at the most basic of levels this would be an immensely illustrative example of the use of political fear that is supposed to be the reason for this book's existence. [~doomsdayer520~]e book, even in Robin's long discussions of the (mostly) rightist-fueled McCarthyism. This indicates a creeping personal outlook into a book that started strongly and objectively.  <br /> <br />And finally, there is a catastrophic omission here, especially since Robin claims that the book was partially inspired by 9/11 and subsequent events - the current conservative administration's use of fear, especially of terrorist attacks, to drum up support not just for war but their own policies and political plans. Regardless of whether Robin (or the reader) would be for or against current political trends, at the most basic of levels this would be an immensely illustrative example of the use of political fear that is supposed to be the reason for this book's existence. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-02-07
362715:US	52697458	RCX40MLIYRWQD	0345457714	203262778	Broken Angels (Takeshi Kovacs)	Books	2	10	20	N	N	Make Stuff Up on the Fly	At one point in this novel, lead goon Takeshi Kovacs says \\"we make this stuff up on the fly\\" to describe his group of operatives. One could possibly say the same about Richard Morgan's writing style. This continuation of Morgan's debut novel, Altered Carbon, is an interminable mishmash of poorly constructed suspense and gratuitous violence. Morgan introduces some intriguing themes here concerning corporate domination, the futility of warfare and revolution, and even the state of religion in the face of alien culture. But these themes are lost in a splatterfest featuring little more than tiresome action scenes and pointless infighting among the characters. The biggest thing missing is any insight into Morgan's concept of \\"resleeving\\" in which one's personality can be downloaded and placed into a new body. The last novel made great use of this concept in explorations of what it really means to be human, but here it's just an excuse for dozens of characters to be brutally murdered then brought back to life as candidates for psychological torture.<br /><br />Morgan has tried extremely hard, and failed, to create suspense through interpersonal rivalries among the characters. What's sorely missing is the art of foreshadowing, which should be second nature to any experienced writer of mysteries or drama. Instead what we have here is wave upon wave of characters betraying and selling each other out, followed by implausible rescues out of nowhere (i.e. Carrera's Wedge), only to lead to the discovery of another diabolical scheme, which is then defeated by the lead character, who then finds that there's an even bigger scheme being cooked up by yet another peripheral character, ad nauseam. Without adequate foreshadowing by Morgan, this is not suspense but false cleverness and intricacy, in pursuit of negligible thematic or character development.<br /><br />Meanwhile there are absolutely no likeable characters in this book. This goes especially for Kovacs, whose deepest thoughts are about whether he should kill everyone in sight now or later. Kovacs sees nothing but betrayal and hatred in the other characters (plus demeaning thrills from the women), to the point where it is impossible for the reader to like the characters either. Meanwhile, Morgan's sci-fi universe is intriguing but mostly hollow, as his way of creating strange new worlds is merely to make up quasi-futurist terms like chameleochrome, technoglyph, or bubblefab without explaining them, as if simply typing them were enough for the reader's imagination. This extremely annoying and violent novel may have been written with movie rights in mind, as it would translate well into an empty sci-fi action flick starring Will Smith, with maximum gore and minimal dialogue or character development. [~doomsdayer520~]ther he should kill everyone in sight now or later. Kovacs sees nothing but betrayal and hatred in the other characters (plus demeaning thrills from the women), to the point where it is impossible for the reader to like the characters either. Meanwhile, Morgan's sci-fi universe is intriguing but mostly hollow, as his way of creating strange new worlds is merely to make up quasi-futurist terms like chameleochrome, technoglyph, or bubblefab without explaining them, as if simply typing them were enough for the reader's imagination. This extremely annoying and violent novel may have been written with movie rights in mind, as it would translate well into an empty sci-fi action flick starring Will Smith, with maximum gore and minimal dialogue or character development. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-02-03
366852:US	52697458	R3HTPXK64FN0D2	1932857001	263232065	Under The Influence: The Disinformation Guide to Drugs (Disinformation Guides)	Books	3	16	20	N	N	Just Say Know	Anyone who can put aside the preconceived notions of mainstream political discourse can see that the \\"war on drugs\\" is a hypocritical, expensive, heavy-handed, and nonsensical failure. The drug war is not about public health but about social control, and this book from Disinformation collects far-flung thought and knowledge on such matters. For example, small-time recreational users of comparatively harmless cannabis (which has never killed a single person) get excessive jail time, while the producers of the more addictive and hazardous tobacco (which kills hundreds of thousands of people) enjoy life in the corporate and political mainstream. Naturally occurring opiates are the subjects of multi-billion dollar wars and police state tactics, while corporate-controlled products like Ritalin, which is designed specifically to chemically alter the brains of children, are promoted by the establishment. Completely prohibited illicit substances are easier to obtain than lightly regulated alcohol. With a little independent thought, one can see that the drug war is about suppressing dissent from certain non-mainstream populations and perpetuating the prison-military-industrial complex, under simplistic sloganeering about health and crime.<br /><br />Like all of the compendiums from Disinfo (I have reviewed three of the previous volumes here), the essays herein are of widely disparate quality, from hard-hitting investigative reports to whiny conspiracy theories. This particular book also has the added disadvantage of extreme repetition. While the various authors approach the concept through different specific events or issues, almost all of them repeat, ad nauseam, the basic counter-cultural thoughts on the drug war's problems, which I just did far more efficiently in the last paragraph. This adds up to 300 pages (which is effectively 600 pages given the book's large physical size and small typeface) of different authors preaching to the choir. That makes the reading of this book quite tiresome.<br /><br />As for the particular essays, the subject matter can be fascinating and effective, and I can say that the entries by various authors and thinkers in the \\"Reform and Politics\\" and \\"For Medicinal Use\\" sections, and a fair amount of the essays in the rest of the book, are strongly researched with compellingly realistic observations and recommendations. However, that old lack of editorial control by the Disinfo folks has also resulted in a damaging number of clunkers, like the pointless and sensationalistic conspiracy theories of Dan Russell (law enforcement as treason) and Catherine Austin Fitts (narcodollars pervading every aspect of the world economy), and multiple writers who fail to make a convincing argument through legal and constitutional precedents for the \\"cognitive liberty\\" concept. The Disinfo philosophy is to keep an open mind when exploring controversial subjects, and that works reasonably well here, but having an open mind is a double-edged sword. With an open mind you'll also see that this book, through repetition, inflammatory language, and conspiracy theorizing, tends to sink the strong arguments of its more levelheaded contributors, who deserve to be surrounded by better material. [~doomsdayre520~]s book quite tiresome. <br /> <br />As for the particular essays, the subject matter can be fascinating and effective, and I can say that the entries by various authors and thinkers in the \\"Reform and Politics\\" and \\"For Medicinal Use\\" sections, and a fair amount of the essays in the rest of the book, are strongly researched with compellingly realistic observations and recommendations. However, that old lack of editorial control by the Disinfo folks has also resulted in a damaging number of clunkers, like the pointless and sensationalistic conspiracy theories of Dan Russell (law enforcement as treason) and Catherine Austin Fitts (narcodollars pervading every aspect of the world economy), and multiple writers who fail to make a convincing argument through legal and constitutional precedents for the \\"cognitive liberty\\" concept. The Disinfo philosophy is to keep an open mind when exploring controversial subjects, and that works reasonably well here, but having an open mind is a double-edged sword. With an open mind you'll also see that this book, through repetition, inflammatory language, and conspiracy theorizing, tends to sink the strong arguments of its more levelheaded contributors, who deserve to be surrounded by better material. [~doomsdayre520~]	2005-01-31
371537:US	52697458	R3PM0C72C5KZPP	0060725532	818538047	Celia: My Life	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The Nightingale in Exile	This is an enjoyable memoir from the great Cuban singer Celia Cruz, reminiscing on her long life of musical creativity and success. She came of age in the rich Afro/Latin/Caribbean musical scene of pre-Castro Cuba, but then had to flee her homeland, never to return, after the dictator took control and ruthlessly suppressed his people's vibrant and colorful homegrown culture. For some reason Celia never hit it big with mainstream American audiences, but she was huge in the Latin community, and hundreds of thousands of fans mourned her passing in 2003. This book is written mostly in the form of positive reminiscences on friends, faith, and successes. There is nothing wrong with that in the slightest, but I can't quite give this book a perfect rating because of some missed opportunities. Celia's life offers many rich lessons on having to flee one's home into exile, and continuing to work for one's people through success in the outside world. Celia has many very wise and compelling things to say about Castro, the suffering of her people, life in exile, and the issues faced by black and Latin women in music. Unfortunately, Celia's experienced and heartfelt remarks on these matters usually appear for only a paragraph or two, and then it's back to the joyful reminiscing. But even though some golden opportunities for real insight are lost, this is still a great story about the life of an outstanding talent and personality. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-01-27
374221:US	52697458	R2JNV39H9XYMX	0375507582	272723347	Counterculture Through the Ages: From Abraham to Acid House	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Why Be Normal?	Here Ken Goffman (apparently coauthor Dan Joy worked at the conceptual level only) has created a fast-moving and fascinating discussion of countercultures throughout history and what they have in common. The most interesting aspect of this book is the locating of ancient groups, like followers of Socrates and even the original Jews, that fit the modern definition of counterculture. Goffman even includes the Enlightenment thinkers of Europe, who even though they ended up being the establishment, definitely started out by countering the dominance and dogma of the Catholic Church. Goffman finds that these and modern countercultures, such as hippies and ravers, share an anti-authoritarian worldview and a love for individualism and nonconformity, which are central to the human condition in all regions, time periods, and political environments.<br /><br />Unfortunately there are some problems with this book, inherent in the methods followed by Goffman and Joy. Goffman states in the introduction that it would be impossible to describe all the countercultures the world has ever seen, so representative examples have been chosen that most illustrate the basic arguments being advanced. This works reasonably well, to the extent described in the last paragraph, but still leads to a somewhat distracting sense of arbitrary and fragmented history. More specifically, the inevitable coverage of the hippie/new left movements of the 60s and 70s is highly politicized and personalized (not a problem for most of the rest of the book), and Goffman even accidentally says \\"we\\" a few times when describing the countercultural participants of that and the current era, damaging the observational integrity of some portions of the book.<br /><br />On the writing side, Goffman has fun playing with the academic language that this kind of study engenders, and can sound funny (and purposefully ironic) when spewing professor-speak like \\"a complex exegesis would be required to do complete justice to this peculiar conundrum.\\" But on the other hand, he is also prone to that same type of over-analysis, such as describing an off-hand onstage comment by Janis Joplin as \\"subvert[ing] the very division of time into discrete units.\\" Goffman tends to make gigantic postmodern connections, such as 12th century French troubadours to Jefferson Airplane or Picasso's cubism to hip hop beats; he's prone to incessant name-dropping (see the index for dozens of names that appear on one page only); and he can't stop quoting Bob Dylan. Luckily, these pervasive flaws in method don't significantly damage the main points Goffman is making about countercultures, and his book is a fascinating treatise on those of us who will never be happy with normal conformity. [~doomsdayer520~]this peculiar conundrum.\\" But on the other hand, he is also prone to that same type of over-analysis, such as describing an off-hand onstage comment by Janis Joplin as \\"subvert[ing] the very division of time into discrete units.\\" Goffman tends to make gigantic postmodern connections, such as 12th century French troubadours to Jefferson Airplane or Picasso's cubism to hip hop beats; he's prone to incessant name-dropping (see the index for dozens of names that appear on one page only); and he can't stop quoting Bob Dylan. Luckily, these pervasive flaws in method don't significantly damage the main points Goffman is making about countercultures, and his book is a fascinating treatise on those of us who will never be happy with normal conformity. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-01-25
378249:US	52697458	RW98OQD4ZSNS2	0743453573	878363117	Lost World: Rewriting Prehistory---How New Science Is Tracing America's Ice Age Mariners	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Hands-On Paradigm Shifting	This book quite effectively debunks the prevailing theories about the earliest arrival of humans in the Americas. According to that body of knowledge, late in the last ice age people from Asia walked across the Beringia land bridge, which was formed by lowered sea levels, into Alaska and then south through Canada via a supposed corridor between thousands of miles of glaciers. Here Tom Koppel shows that the evidence for that old paradigm is shaky and conjectural at best. Instead, in recent years evidence has grown showing that a few thousand years previously, the same lowered sea levels allowed seafaring peoples to colonize the Americas by hopping along islands and coastlines around the rim of the Northern Pacific. This phenomenon was previously unknown because the relevant coastal areas are now under water, since sea level rose again at the end of the ice age.<br /><br />Koppel presents both the latest scientific evidence of such coastal migrations of ancient peoples, and also offers plenty of firsthand reporting of the archeologists, anthropologists, and geologists who are doing groundbreaking work in the field, mostly along the coasts of British Columbia and Alaska. Koppel's writing is a bit repetitive and he has a hard time avoiding big speculations, while he can't quite convince the reader of the all-encompassing dominance of these new theories as much as he himself has been convinced. However, after reading this book you will have good reason to place credence in the increasingly compelling evidence of coastal migrations by ancient Americans, and declare the predominant \\"ice corridor\\" thesis to be just a tired old paradigm that is in real danger of being overthrown. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-01-22
379092:US	52697458	RUWBJ7PMGGNW1	0451523377	821153252	Dracula (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Ol' Drac Ain't Like He Used To Be	It is interesting to read the original literary versions of tales that have had a long reign in popular culture and have spawned many updates and adaptations. You can see that the tale of the original Count Dracula has evolved greatly in movies and books since the bad guy first appeared in Bram Stoker's book more than a century ago. (For an even better example of this process, read Mary Shelley's original Frankenstein novel sometime - the monster will amaze you.) Of course some aspects of the Dracula story have been corrupted over time. For example, most of the story does not take place in Transylvania, Renfield is not Dracula's butler, and Van Helsing is an aging intellectual rather than a swashbuckling monster-slayer. And most of all, the course of this original story pretty much eliminates the need for any of the multitudes of sequels that Stoker's original creation has inspired. Regardless, it is always a treat to go back to the source, as Stoker expertly made use of vampire folklore as it stood at the time, while drawing inspiration for the Dracula character from the real-life genocidal maniac Vlad the Impaler.<br /><br />Be prepared to read a book that is a product of the writing style of the late 19th century. Stoker's language is dense and a bit slow moving, with words like \\"stertorious\\" and \\"zoophagy.\\" The dialogue is very laborious, with characters speechifying in dramatic and gigantic verse that could hardly come from people in the midst of tense situations. Stoker used the unusual method of presenting the narrative mostly in the form of diary entries by the major characters, which stretches the limits of credulity. These people apparently finished up each day of valiantly warring against vampires with two hours of writing with excruciating detail in their diaries, then started each day reading each other's diaries before embarking on another perilous mission. But if you can stomach the rather stiff Victorian writing methods and the enormous monologues, you'll see why this book is an immortal classic for the ages. [~doomsdayer520~]ou'll see why this book is an immortal classic for the ages. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-01-21
383707:US	52697458	RBAUU341EQA9R	1583226559	849757502	Censored 2005: The Top 25 Censored Stories	Books	4	38	43	N	N	More Proof of Media Monopoly	I have followed the annual Project Censored guides for the better part of a decade, and can even credit the series with partially inspiring my recent master's degree in media studies. In that field, the overwhelming concern for the past several years has been the growing corporate consolidation of the media. Consequently, media outlets have a structural focus on news stories that reinforce the worldview of the corporate elite, and maintain the political and economic status quo, while simply ignoring stories that shed a bad light on such power structures. To a greater extent than ever, the \\"censored\\" stories located by the team this year predominantly feature corporate malfeasance and the consolidation of power by political and corporate elites, with unheralded harm being done to real people, along with a trampling of the common good and the public rights guaranteed by the Constitution.<br /><br />Alas, since this is a group project, once again the Project Censored team has included their great findings in a disappointingly inconsistent book. Not to mention the frequent typos and other signs of poor technical editing, this book is often sunk by self-righteousness from the very same journalists who have courageously brought the under-reported stories to light. These original reporters, writing their own follow-ups and investigative reports here, usually complain about how the mainstream press and general public continue to ignore their work - complaints that are tiresome and unnecessary, because since we're reading this book we're already completely aware of the problem. One low point is \\"Lifestyles of the Rich and Oligopolistic\\" in which Stephanie Dyer ruins an expose on the boards of directors of media giants by complaining about how individual directors don't share her personal politics. Even worse is \\"U.S. Coverage of Israel and Palestine: Choosing Sides\\" in which extraordinarily holier-than-thou freelance reporter Alison Weir unloads blanket criticism of all media (including, strangely enough, Project Censored) for under-reporting the namesake conflict, but offers little real structural analysis of why such under-reporting happens or how the situation could be improved.<br /><br />Fortunately, the remaining media analysis in this year's edition is generally strong and enlightening, although coverage of the media monopoly process is a bit repetitive and merely distills information that has already been well covered by experts in the field (especially my personal favorite, Robert McChesney). As usual, the stories uncovered by the Project Censored team are extremely important for those who want to know more about not only the behavior of the mainstream media, but the state of the world for the 99.9% of us who are not members of the elite. But you will have to put up with a certain amount of self-righteousness and poor writing and editing as the team can't quite create a book as strong as the stories it uncovers. [~doomsdayer520~]dia (including, strangely enough, Project Censored) for under-reporting the namesake conflict, but offers little real structural analysis of why such under-reporting happens or how the situation could be improved.  <br /> <br />Fortunately, the remaining media analysis in this year's edition is generally strong and enlightening, although coverage of the media monopoly process is a bit repetitive and merely distills information that has already been well covered by experts in the field (especially my personal favorite, Robert McChesney). As usual, the stories uncovered by the Project Censored team are extremely important for those who want to know more about not only the behavior of the mainstream media, but the state of the world for the 99.9% of us who are not members of the elite. But you will have to put up with a certain amount of self-righteousness and poor writing and editing as the team can't quite create a book as strong as the stories it uncovers. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-01-17
384630:US	52697458	R1304ZKQ1FAAOK	1565848403	209925989	Dick: The Man Who Is President	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Mayberry Machiavelli	Credit for the quip above goes to former White House official John DiIulio, who used it to describe the Bush-Cheney administration. Thanks to this hard-hitting book by John Nichols, we can now clearly see who is really running America. As you read along you almost feel sorry for George W. Bush as his image is reduced to that of a figurehead, fronting for the real man in power. Dick Cheney has become the most controlling vice president of all time, as he has moved himself into a position of extreme power through classic Machiavellian tactics. Here Nichols provides us with an often sarcastic and vindictive biography of Cheney's never-ending quest for power from behind the scenes, as he has made a long career of latching onto more publicly agreeable politicians, and consolidating his own power by building loyalties, kowtowing to the rich and powerful, and toeing a strict ideological line.<br /><br />This biography is not fool-proof, especially because its highly partisan nature will prevent it from being taken seriously by anyone who might have real political ability to curb Cheney's low-key but effective megalomania. Nichols is also prone to overanalyzing the long-term historical impacts of Cheney's actions and non-actions. However, partisan writing does not diminish the relevance of the biographical facts herein, and it sure is fun to read regardless. While much of the documentation used by Nichols consists of politically-charged hearsay that should be taken with a grain of salt, we can still see clearly that the well-being of all Americans is under the control of a power-hungry demagogue who has never let the facts or common sense stand in his way. It's time for Dick Cheney to stand plainly before the American people and to be judged for his actions, but we can see in this cringe-inducing book that he has mastered the art of preventing personal disclosure for decades on end. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-01-17
386741:US	52697458	RGL625WRVRXSD	0446606723	530097982	Wild Seed	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Love and Hatred Immortal	Here we have an enthralling epic of the supernatural, built around concepts from African mythology. Two immortals, one the quintessential female and the other the quintessential male, are engaged in a centuries-long struggle of love and hatred as they each try to build their own idea of a perfect world among their mortal relations. The goddess figure, Anyanwu, is a stunning character and is Butler's greatest creation - an incredibly complex personage with a highly complicated relationship with her counterpart, the violent and stubborn god figure Doro. Across centuries and continents, from slave-hunting days in Africa to the plantations of the Civil War-era South and beyond, Doro tries ceaselessly to bring Anyanwu's powers under his control in order to perfect his planned race of superbeings, but finds that he has finally met his match. Anyanwu first loves then loathes this immortal counterpart as he tries to use her, but as the only two immortals on Earth, they must be together for eternity. This outstandingly structured tale by Butler is highly recommended for all who wish to expand their horizons. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-01-15
390635:US	52697458	R331T1C3HZWBBC	1931498717	762318883	Don't Think of an Elephant!: Know Your Values and Frame the Debate--The Essential Guide for Progressives	Books	5	26	30	N	N	The Truth Won't Set You Free	I read a lot of political books and consider myself a progressive, which by the way is a term outside of the current political rhetoric in America. This pamphlet by Lakoff certainly has the best ideas and recommendations I have seen for taking back public thought in this country from the stranglehold of the numerically limited but disproportionately influential neoconservatives. This is because Lakoff understands that the neocons have mastered the use of language, and the successful framing of their ideas into simplistic concepts that regular people can identify with. For example, the Bush administration knows it can sound believable when it uses the name \\"Clear Skies\\" for a program that actually increases air pollution. We can all see that the facts dispel any notion of \\"Clear Skies\\" through a simple exercise of rational thought and independent investigation.<br /><br />However, the facts will not get progressives anywhere, because Lakoff knows that people process facts and public statements with simpler frames dealing with bigger concepts, usually morality and patriotism. This is why labor union members vote for Republicans who are openly anti-union; or why the neocons, who by their very own definition represent the corporate elite and the super-rich, have managed to convince tens of millions of regular Americans that they represent their interests. Here Lakoff expertly advises progressives on how to reframe their ideals so they can be accepted by Americans who have been conditioned into accepting soundbites and simplicity. A great example is changing the neocon frame \\"tax relief,\\" which implies that taxes are an affliction that must be cured, with a frame implying that taxes are a responsibility for those who benefit from American society, especially those who have gotten rich from government-supported technologies and infrastructure.<br /><br />There are a few problems with this book, especially its very repetitive nature, as it has been constructed from different speeches to different audiences at different times, in which Lakoff made the same points again and again. He is also prone to promoting his own research institute and especially his previous work. His arguments have one misstep in the section covering how progressives should react to the 9/11 attacks and the subsequent \\"war on terror\\" - I would instead recommend the recent \\"Imperial Hubris\\" as a much better example of a progressive and realistic outlook. But in the end, Lakoff has brilliantly illustrated how the right has successfully controlled language and social thought in this country through rather simplistic rhetorical methods, and how the left has failed miserably to do the same. I suggest that all progressives make use of Lakoff's findings. [~doomsdayer520~]fferent speeches to different audiences at different times, in which Lakoff made the same points again and again. He is also prone to promoting his own research institute and especially his previous work. His arguments have one misstep in the section covering how progressives should react to the 9/11 attacks and the subsequent \\"war on terror\\" - I would instead recommend the recent \\"Imperial Hubris\\" as a much better example of a progressive and realistic outlook. But in the end, Lakoff has brilliantly illustrated how the right has successfully controlled language and social thought in this country through rather simplistic rhetorical methods, and how the left has failed miserably to do the same. I suggest that all progressives make use of Lakoff's findings. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-01-12
391714:US	52697458	R25MKFLO1F64T3	0375415513	814842405	On the Wing: To the Edge of the Earth with the Peregrine Falcon;( Rough Cut)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Migrations Beginningless and Endless	This is a mostly engaging story about tracking the awe-inspiring migratory patterns of peregrine falcons by plane and radio. Tennant and his ornery veteran pilot George Vose made use of purloined radio telemetry equipment, and in many perilous journeys in Vose's small plane, they managed to track migrating falcons for thousands of miles. With great inspiration they followed one from Texas all the way to Alaska, and some more from Texas to Central America. Tennant ably documents the thrill of almost getting inside the minds of falcons as they follow their instinctual routes across continents. You'll grow attached to the particular birds, who clearly have their own personalities, as can be seen in their flight patterns and hunting habits. In fact, the most heartrending moment in the book comes when Tennant realizes that one falcon named Delgada, whom they had tracked from Texas, probably perished in a military anti-drug operation in southern Mexico. While this book will be a treasure for bird lovers who yearn to learn more about migratory habits and other behavior (Tennant describes many other bird populations in passing as well), this book also functions as a rather uninteresting and unfocused travelogue that is poorly written and organized. Descriptions of trouble with government pencil pushers, military bureaucrats, and skeptical villagers try the reader's patience and detract from the scope of the book, as does completely useless news about Tennant's personal life. Those fascinated by falcons and the thrill of discovery will find many rewards in this book, but may find themselves skimming large portions of it. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-01-11
399931:US	52697458	R1G2U3IAOWIDJS	0760750432	835872684	Weird U.S.: Your Travel Guide to America's Local Legends and Best Kept Secrets	Books	3	53	59	N	N	Weirdness Better Found Elsewhere	This is a reasonably enjoyable and fun book for those with roadtripping impulses. There are some real weaknesses to this book however, and some of them have to do with the meaning of the word \\"weird.\\" The editors claim that the focus of the book, most of which is \\"written\\" by semi-anonymous club correspondents, deals with spooky and mysterious places around the country that give adventurous folks the impulse to explore the unknown and confront the darker areas of the American soul. This is true for a good chunk of the book, especially in creepy chapters dealing with weird cemeteries and abandoned mental asylums. However, large parts of the book drift into the funny definition of \\"weird,\\" merely displaying cheeky roadside tourist attractions.<br /><br />This unfocused nature of the book is badly exacerbated by the contributing \\"authors\\" who have sent submissions to Sceurman and Moran describing these weird places. Many of these are message board submissions of wildly inconsistent quality. Some are well written but most aren't, especially those that damage the credibility of the whole enterprise with indirect stories about how they heard about legends and locations from friends of friends of friends. The production values of the book are amateurish with the selection of weak contributions from correspondents, poor editing and writing, and illustrations and photographs that sometimes don't even illustrate the locations whose text they accompany. There is a much better place for this type of information for the adventurous American roadtripper and explorer of mysterious places - the better developed and much more established website and book series created by the great Roadside America organization. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-01-05
404083:US	52697458	R1K4QYE2WPZKWC	006052085X	95337721	The Power of Babel: A Natural History of Language	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The Evolution of Expression	Here McWhorter takes a concept from biology, evolution, and applies it to linguistics, resulting in an often fascinating treatment of how human language changes and develops over time. Despite cultural snobs who try to enforce strict and unchanging practices in speaking one's language, McWhorter shows us that languages are incredibly fluid and transitory, and new ones are always being born while old ones go extinct. One interesting case of language evolution is that the grammar of modern English is descended directly from one sub-family of languages, Germanic, but 99% of the vocabulary has been borrowed from a different sub-family, the Romance languages. This is a function of vast forces of politics and history, rather than education or cultural identity.<br /><br />We also find that there is a fine line between languages and dialects, with a continuum of regional tongues bridging the gaps between \\"official\\" languages; most regional or social dialects are legitimately robust and intricate rather than uneducated; and the socially acceptable \\"standard\\" version of any language (such as the English taught in schools) is merely the local dialect of whatever group came to political/economic power. Most interestingly, McWhorter shows how writing a language freezes it in time in an \\"acceptable\\" version, and puts the brakes on the continuous evolution that has led to so many unique and expressive tongues around the world. McWhorter also has some great thoughts on the current extinction of thousands of indigenous languages and dialects around the world in favor of the less expressive languages of the powerful.<br /><br />A couple of things keep this book from being a true classic though. McWhorter has a rather unfocused writing style with an annoying amount of cheesy humor that is merely distracting. This usually appears in footnotes with barely-useful pop culture observations and bad disconnected jokes like \\"chimpanzees have always made me extremely uncomfortable.\\" At the more fundamental level, McWhorter operates from a theoretical approach that appears to be accepted by a healthy percentage of, but not all, linguists - the theory that there was one original human language that developed among the first proto-humans who learned to speak, and emerged before the great migrations out of Africa and then evolved from one starting point into tens of thousands of tongues worldwide. I'm sure not a linguist but I did not emerge from this book convinced of that theory, which does place a certain amount of doubt on some of McWhorter's conclusions, even though they are usually quite fascinating. [~doomsdayer520~]he more fundamental level, McWhorter operates from a theoretical approach that appears to be accepted by a healthy percentage of, but not all, linguists - the theory that there was one original human language that developed among the first proto-humans who learned to speak, and emerged before the great migrations out of Africa and then evolved from one starting point into tens of thousands of tongues worldwide. I'm sure not a linguist but I did not emerge from this book convinced of that theory, which does place a certain amount of doubt on some of McWhorter's conclusions, even though they are usually quite fascinating. [~doomsdayer520~]	2005-01-02
407375:US	52697458	RL04QKC3TKVTX	0887507409	789209068	Halfway Man	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Head North	This is an intriguing and heartfelt novel about the differing relationships that Native Americans and Whites have with nature, as well as with the past and with fellow humans. The story revolves around an Ontario Indian, Travis, whose ancient fishing village on Lake Superior has been set for demolition to make way for a resort development. Travis takes the emotionally damaged CEO of the offending corporation on a trip to the wilds of the north country, hoping to make the man learn about the different ways that Indians view economic development and ties to the land. The story moves pretty slowly, and things get interesting for a while when Travis' community has trouble deciding what to do about the development plans, but this is mostly a back-to-nature kind of story. And though the writing style is overly sentimental, with a distracting reliance on flashbacks, and the plot and characters don't develop too believably, this is still a good read and is likely to affect your views on the relations between man and nature. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-12-30
408657:US	52697458	R1EK8335SCE9B2	0393051390	279154392	Another Bullshit Night in Suck City: A Memoir	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Family of Lost Souls	Memoirs are often written by people who for some reason think their lives and inner thoughts would be interesting to other people. Why read about the totally mundane and average life of someone you never heard of, or a self-worshipping celebrity who throws out a quickie book upon getting a big cash advance? Well you have nothing to worry about in this extremely hard-hitting and disturbing memoir from Flynn, who has led a fascinating and tragic life. This is a memoir that actually matters, mostly covering Flynn's very strange relationship with his very strange father. His father is a small-time conman and drifter who fancies himself a great writer, but after leaving Flynn's mother spent decades in and out of prisons and homeless shelters, one of which the younger Flynn just happened to work at when he grew up. The elder Flynn left heartbreak and emotional suffering in his wake, and here his son gives us the awful details of the resulting suicide of his mother, his own bad trips down the roads of thuggery and addiction, and his unsuccessful attempts to get to know his increasingly downward-spiraling father. An added bonus of this book is a gut-level look into the lives and real travails of the homeless. Here Flynn has written a good substitute for the classic American literature that his father trumpeted about writing for decades. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-12-29
411706:US	52697458	RFL8VT7Q6I78J	0226326799	307681378	Shaking the World for Jesus: Media and Conservative Evangelical Culture	Books	2	18	27	N	N	Academic Can't Shake It	This book gets off to a pretty interesting start as Hendershot defines the world of evangelicals, who are much more numerous and integrated than fundamentalists, and describes their use of media to spread the word, either to each other or \\"non-born-agains.\\" Unfortunately, this initially informative discourse soon becomes lost under extremely typical and unrewarding academic methods, in a book that claims to have interest for the general reader but has merely been constructed by a professor for the approval of a few other professors. (I can say this as an academic myself, coming from the same discipline as Hendershot.) All of the worst academic tendencies are here - excessive introductions and summaries, anemic cultural observations, name-dropping other obscure academics under a guise of corroborating evidence, disjointed chapters that likely originated as separate research projects, grand conclusions based on limited specific examples, and the obligatory application of obtuse theory (especially outdated feminism and cultural studies) to real-world phenomena.<br /><br />The low point of the book is a suspiciously reference-deficient passage in chapter 3 in which Hendershot constructs the supposed inner thoughts of Christian teenage girls who have eating disorders, after personally interviewing not a single person in that demographic. This and the following chapter, dealing with gender and sexuality respectively, are loaded with preconceived notions that are propped up after the fact by a supposedly detached application of moribund and leaden bodies of theory, that would merely impress the limited number of other people who also write about those theories (a problem of epidemic proportions in academic writing). The final academic blunder here is the inability, or unwillingness, of a professor to write outside of the stiff but accepted structure - a few hundred pages of specific examples wrapped up in an obligatory conclusion that is merely yet another summary. This research by Hendershot takes an interesting topic and spends a lot of her time and yours summarizing the obvious but providing little of cultural or political value to the interested layperson. [~doomsdayer520~]research by Hendershot takes an interesting topic and spends a lot of her time and yours summarizing the obvious but providing little of cultural or political value to the interested layperson. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-12-27
414820:US	52697458	RNB9HNO3GPWGG	0812551583	375140639	Someplace to Be Flying (Newford)	Books	4	4	11	N	N	As the Crows Fly	Charles de Lint's very unique style of urban fantasy really takes wing here, through the use of Native American folklore concerning animal spirits and the worldly people they inhabit. This makes for a very enjoyable read as de Lint explores the magic and danger of the fantasy world, through the actions and travails of the mystically inclined and free-spirited denizens of Newford's eccentric big city landscape. But even though de Lint's ideas are as highly unique as always, this book has some problems in plot and characterizations. First, there are far too many over-described and incongruously eccentric characters who have middling influence on the ultimate plotline, and keeping track of them all becomes tiresome. Other than the Crow Girls, some of the most intriguing characters I've ever come across, just about everyone else in this novel blends together in their contrived \\"differentness\\" and whimsy. It appears that de Lint is obsessed with the alternative nation of mystical hippies and friendly punks, with everyone falling into that supposed anti-stereotype - especially de Lint's annoying alter ego Christy Riddell, who has no other purpose in the story except to appear out of nowhere and explain things to confused characters (and readers). Add to this a messy writing style in which the point of view shifts abruptly from third person to first, for various characters of inconsistent importance, plus a plot that gets bigger and more diffuse as it goes along, then leads to an inconclusive climax and a whole pile of loose ends. This is quite disappointing because of the highly intriguing settings and themes in de Lint's unique world of urban fantasy. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-12-23
418126:US	52697458	R3DVZP4H0BOF5N	1741044510	623414052	The Travel Book	Books	4	67	75	N	N	Down to Earth Around the World	The adventurous folks at Lonely Planet have given us this nearly perfect book of photos and travel possibilities from around the world. Every nation on Earth, and a few non-nations like Antarctica or Puerto Rico, gets equal coverage in two-page spreads, regardless of size, influence, or fame. Now since this is a British book, the recommendations for each country can be a little curious, especially what the Lonely Planet editors think is representative of the United States (which you'll find curious if you're American). In general, just watch out for some poorly considered travel recommendations for out-of-the-way countries that are basically stereotypes, and merely sound cool but which the Lonely Planet folks couldn't have possibly done in person. Examples include \\"beach-hopping from one gorgeous sun-soaked spot to another\\" in Albania, or \\"taking a boat ride down the Euphrates River\\" in Iraq. Also watch for under-written stereotypical moments that list poverty and sex as calling cards of Cuba, fish as a trademark of Finland, national pride as characteristic of Moldova, or Elizabeth Taylor's Cleopatra movie as a real cinematic representation of Egypt. You have to give Lonely Planet credit for at least trying in the writing department though, and there are usually true treasures in their recommendations for each nation's literature, music, foods, and drinks. But in the end, the true value of this gigantic book lies in the tremendous photography, with consistently eye-catching shots of natural beauty, architecture, and especially real people from every spot on Earth. This is how armchair traveling is done. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-12-20
420583:US	52697458	RCK4ATCD1OLQU	0813333040	374563802	Copyrighting Culture: The Political Economy Of Intellectual Property (Critical Studies in Communication and in the Cultural Industries)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	How Copyright Law Really Works	In the field of political economy one looks at the real-world effects of laws and regulations, how they are applied, and who applies them. Here Ronald Bettig applies this type of analysis to the specific areas of copyright law and intellectual property, in which there is not just the letter of the law, but also the concentration of power and control that vested interests can achieve through the application of that law. The exercising of copyright law is usually accompanied by rhetoric about compensating the creators of original content. However, look closely and you'll find that legal actions are often enacted by large corporations, who have gained control of the copyrights for creative work, in order to preserve their own profitability. Another issue is the public domain and free marketplace of ideas that are guaranteed by the constitution, but are increasingly restricted by power grabs from corporations. For example, the amount of time before a copyrighted work enters the public domain has been miraculously increased by lawmakers every time Mickey Mouse was about to graduate from the clutches of Disney.<br /><br />Bettig illustrates cases in cable television and home taping in which the media firms used heavy-handed applications of copyright law, as well as big-money lawyers, to control or crush technologies that might have damaged their profitability, all under facetious claims of protecting creativity. Through Bettig's specific focus on copyright law here, you will see how the letter of the law doesn't always come to pass when the two sides of a legal battle have vastly different amounts of money and political power. Also, watch for a future edition of this book in which Bettig could apply this analysis to the fascinating realm of music file sharing. After reading this edition you won't be surprised that downloading an MP3 file creates far deeper issues than a loss of a sale for a musical artist. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-12-17
421819:US	52697458	R358E9MZ17N9TB	0446532681	502504625	America (The Book): A Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction	Books	5	6	13	N	N	It's the Comedy, Stupid!	In modern America, we have lost the art of political satire. When partisan bickering has reduced every single idea and thought in the history of the world to a strict liberal vs. conservative dichotomy, and even remotely questioning the actions or opinions of elected officials means you hate America, it's just real hard to make a joke or take a joke these days. So if you're mentally unable to absorb any information without jumping to an offended conclusion about how supposedly insulting it is to the morality of your elected officials or the economic system in which you have vested interests, then don't read this book because you just won't get it. Don't read any books for that matter, or participate in any non-reality-show-related discussions with any of your fellow human beings. But if you want political satire with a great sense of humor that intelligently pokes fun at all sides of the American system (that's right I said all sides), and utilizes witty and educated social observation to provide food for thought on sociopolitical weaknesses and areas for improvement, then return yourself to the lost art of satire with this hysterical book. Show that you're open-minded and intelligent enough to take a joke, unlike most of the people in government, television, radio, publishing, book reviewing websites, etc. etc. etc. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-12-16
422309:US	52697458	RJ73V7YXFTEN	015600884X	320855752	Blood Song: A Silent Ballad	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wordless Poetry	This is an outstanding example of a lost art form - storytelling without words. I won't go so far as to make comparisons with Egypt and Mesoamerica, as Joe Sacco does in this book's over-analytical (and dare I say, unnecessarily wordy) introduction. But here Eric Drooker has mastered the art of telling a tale in sequential pictures only, without a single word in sight. The nearly monochromatic drawings, engraved in scratchboard and watercolored, and only using bright colors in rare and exceptionally effective instances, are as haunting as they are eye-catching. Sure the story is very simplistic, with authority figures senselessly brutalizing anyone who's different, while the lead character takes a highly improbable journey to a new world. Yes, the main points about oppression and diversity are a bit muddleheaded. But those who dwell on the story's lack of detail or complexity are missing the forest for the trees. The point here is the art, and how wordless communication can incite introspection, empathy, and a love for humanity. This is a masterpiece of artistic storytelling. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-12-15
424686:US	52697458	R2W4CC9UYQLDCP	1574888498	892390637	Imperial Hubris: Why the West is Losing the War on Terror	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Know Your Enemy	The main problem with this book is not that Anonymous (apparently Michael Scheuer) doesn't know his stuff, which he definitely does. It's only that his recommendations for winning the inherently unwinnable \\"war on terror\\" (as if it were possible to defeat a concept) are heavy-handed and inconsistent in terms of military tactics and diplomatic strategies, especially when it comes to civilians. Also, the gentleman is a rather weak writer, with an extremely repetitive style. However, he has said many things that badly needed to be said, and this book ignores the current political demands for unquestioning patriotism and simplistic liberal vs. conservative dichotomies of opinion, which are very damaging to current military operations.<br /><br />Everyone from Sun Tzu to Machiavelli to Robert E. Lee have implored that to win a conflict, you must know your enemy. Here Anonymous shows us that vast American expertise with Afghanistan and Islamist insurgents, built during more than a decade of intelligence in the Soviet invasion era, have not been used to any degree by current management-style military commanders. Our leaders, along with simpleton media pundits, give us the easily digestible pablum that bin Laden and his brethren are unthinking bloodthirsty maniacs who hate America because of jealousy over ill-defined concepts like freedom and democracy. In reality, the Islamist forces are not terrorists, but well-trained and organized insurgents with real political disputes against American actions. They hate us for what we do, not who we are.<br /><br />Anonymous shows convincingly that it will be impossible to achieve any military success if we fail to truly know the enemy. It's easy to demonize and simplify the opponent than to admit that American actions around the world have inspired enmity against us, all of which are described informatively and shockingly in the book. On top of all this is the current ruinous American habit, especially among the elites and the easily swayed, of condemning as un-American and un-patriotic any self-critical look at American actions, or an admission that the enemy might have half a brain and can't be defeated instantly by surgical military strikes and condescending morality. Those who have negatively reviewed this book are merely furthering this nation's ruinous delusions that military and security difficulties around the world can be quickly distilled into morality and flag waving. No competent military commander or security expert would believe that. So why do we believe it now? [~doomsdayer520~]sily swayed, of condemning as un-American and un-patriotic any self-critical look at American actions, or an admission that the enemy might have half a brain and can't be defeated instantly by surgical military strikes and condescending morality. Those who have negatively reviewed this book are merely furthering this nation's ruinous delusions that military and security difficulties around the world can be quickly distilled into morality and flag waving. No competent military commander or security expert would believe that. So why do we believe it now? [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-12-14
433056:US	52697458	RBSB4XK6YPVI0	0380786753	805742654	Fairyland	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Warewolves of Europe	Don't let this novel's fey title fool you. This is actually a chilling near-future dystopia tale about nanotechnology and genetic engineering running amuck, with some remarkable ideas by McCauley that give you the very uncomfortable impression that they could possibly come true some day. Psychological plagues are spreading throughout the human population through the use of microscopic \\"fembots\\" that can alter behavior and personalities, and these are traded like illicit substances and used for psycho-warfare and manipulation. Meanwhile, genetic engineering has resulted in semi-intelligent \\"dolls\\" used for human service and amusement. The two processes have come together to produce a new species of intelligent dolls called \\"fairies\\" who are being manipulated by artificial intelligence constructs to take over the world (creating their own \\"fairyland\\") and eliminate their human creators. This all culminates in a bizarrely psychoactive war in Eastern Europe. McCauley displays great feats of the imagination here, especially through the use of a wasted French theme park (which shall remain nameless) that has become a festering shantytown and breeding ground for inhuman revolutionaries. This novel is a bit confusing with all its subplots and ephemeral characters, but you can't deny that McCauley has come up with some of the most intriguing ideas in recent sci-fi. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-12-06
435848:US	52697458	R2737PSTHFNZXL	1555663281	344400535	The War Against the Greens: The "Wise-Use" Movement, the New Right and the Browning of America: Revised and Updated	Books	3	17	21	N	N	The War Against Common Sense	As a conservationist myself, I found this book rather frustrating. There is compelling subject matter but poor results. On the good side, Helvarg's investigation into the Wise Use and Property Rights movements reveals that these people are hardly acting in their own long-term interests, but instead are enslaved by unyielding hard-right ideologies. Also, this so-called \\"grass roots\\" movement actually enjoys vast funding and legal support from polluting industries and political heavies. Therefore this relatively small group of ideologues has an unfair advantage over real grass roots conservation activists, and has a hugely disproportional amount of clout on political processes and media rhetoric when it comes to environmental issues. This look into the political realities behind the movement is the most valuable aspect of this book.<br /><br />Unfortunately, even as a conservationist I was ultimately unsatisfied with the book, due to Helvarg's conspiratorial and fear-mongering writing style. His credibility is damaged by inflammatory language and character assassinations. Helvarg's stories of Wise Use adherents harassing, injuring, and even killing environmentalists are shocking and saddening, but unfortunately I must conclude that he has not proven that this isn't just a few bad apples, rather than an actual movement strategy. And finally, much of this book is outdated. The original text was written back in the early 1990s when the political environment was quite different. And even though the front cover says \\"revised and updated,\\" Helvarg has merely added the obligatory final chapter on current developments, plus occasional transitional paragraphs and sentences in the original text that merely function as uninformative follow-ups. That makes this book an interesting period piece, but it has few ideas or solutions on how its issues apply to the current scene. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-12-03
442528:US	52697458	RNHVPPENJ5MMZ	1594200068	745553598	Free Culture: How Big Media Uses Technology and the Law to Lock Down Culture and Control Creativity	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Permission Culture Rising	For an exhaustive philosophical exploration of the current state of copyright law and its surrounding issues, you can't do much better than this screed from Lessig. While this book is occasionally opinionated and even polemical, Lessig has plenty of experience in the legal and practical consequences of copyrights to offer a heavily informed treatise on these issues. Lessig's best rhetorical tool here is the use of free market arguments, which should appeal to pro-corporate conservatives, to describe how the current application of copyright law restricts the free market of ideas as well as the freedoms of expression and public domain guaranteed by the Constitution. Here we find that copyright laws designed hundreds of years ago are being applied to new markets and technologies for which they were never intended, leading to an inequitable concentration of copyright power in the hands of a few rich and powerful corporations. Regardless of rhetoric about rewarding creators, current copyright laws enrich corporations into the distant future, rather than provide temporary incentive to authors while also building the public domain of creativity and ideas. In effect, we are on the verge of having to ask for permission from corporations in order to do anything creative, and Lessig shows us that this is not just paranoia, but has already been illustrated in real-life cases.<br /><br />This book starts to run out of steam at Chapter 13 and thereafter, as Lessig broods on his own courtroom travails and proposes solutions that verge on the idealistic, at least in terms of current political realities. However, the power of this book is Lessig's almost shocking use of common sense, and concepts of participatory democracy, to shed light on the growing harms to the public and creativity that are engendered by the current application of unfair copyright laws. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-11-28
442746:US	52697458	R27DQVSS33URN9	B0006C8ZX6	675600763	The mind managers	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Theorist Ahead of His Time	Herbert Schiller was far ahead of his time in the field of political economy in communications. He was among the first, and consequently one of the most influential, theorists to study the systematic connections among the media (in the largest meaning of the term), industry, economics, and government. This book from the early 70s is a very prescient examination of these inequitable connections, with some surprises like a very early look at the market power of Disney, which at the time wasn't even yet among the top 500 largest companies, plus a look at the unheralded influence of the military on American public education. While some specific examples used here are outdated, Schiller was right on the money when pointing out the concentration of the media, and its political effects, well before those trends became the pervasive burdens that they are today. The problem with this book is that Schiller's writing style is not very persuasive, with few applications of his theories to the other sides of the argument, as if he only expected to be writing for those who already agree with him. Schiller also piles on pieces of evidence regarding connections between power players, and assumes that these will prove his theories without the need for any concluding analysis. There are very few reflections on why these trends are necessarily harmful in and of themselves, or how things could really be any different in the American political environment. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-11-28
445375:US	52697458	R4R7L1DCQQT2T	0618331298	322385556	Tolkien and the Great War: The Threshold of Middle-earth	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Escape to Middle-earth	This is a book for Tolkien specialists, combining a partial biography of the writer with highly academic literary criticism. Tolkien experienced combat and suffering directly when serving in World War I, while two of his closest friends and many of his acquaintances died on the Western Front. In this book Garth ties the writer's wartime experiences to his later mythology, with a high degree of believability. Things get off to a rather slow start as Garth describes Tolkien's teen years and the close circle of schoolmates (in a literary fraternity called TCBS) who would encourage his writing. The influence of friends is surely unmistakable, but Garth takes the cheeky intellectual snobbery of the fraternity way too seriously, slowing down the early parts of this book. We then continue into Tolkien's war years, and then the biographical portion of the book ends when he was discharged in 1918 at just the age of 26, at which point he had only published a few poems.<br /><br />Garth then shifts into a fascinating study of the often surprising and unexpected influence of the war on Tolkien's vast Middle-earth mythology. Note that Garth sticks mostly with Tolkien's earlier works, The Book of Lost Tales and The Silmarillion, while only brushing upon the later but more famous The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings. The point is that in the earlier works Tolkien was still constructing his literary worlds rather than expanding and perfecting them, and that was when his war experience loomed the largest. Tolkien experts are probably going to disagree with some of the details in Garth's literary analysis. But his larger point can't be denied. Tolkien's universe of mythological creatures and heroic epics was far from mere escapism, which is a frequent inaccurate criticism. Instead, Tolkien was making crucial points about war, friendship, industrialization, and tyranny, in the guise of some of the most epic literary creations the world has ever seen. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-11-24
456429:US	52697458	R3GWT5UUQC89LA	0609610937	621778433	All the Rave: The Rise and Fall of Shawn Fanning's Napster	Books	3	11	15	N	N	All the Duplicity	Here we have a voluminous history of the Napster phenomenon, but only from a certain jaundiced angle. As a critical outside journalist, Joseph Menn was unable to directly interview some of the principal players in the saga, and often relies on legal documentation. In turn, much of his research is based on secondary sources and hearsay from people not directly involved in the events described. This all taints many parts of the book and reduces its believability. We do get a good rundown of the genesis of Napster, as teenage computer whiz Shawn Fanning and some ambitious hacker friends had a brilliant idea about music file sharing, which then got far more monstrous than anyone could have ever expected. Menn then spends most of the book describing the byzantine investment deals and corporate wheeling and dealing to launch the doomed Napster corporation, in ways that were preposterous even during the dot-com bubble. In the end, enthusiastic people with great ideas tried to cash in, and watched forlornly as others let everything crash and burn.<br /><br />These investigations by Menn are initially informative but descend into a tiresome swamp of nitpicking and unnecessary details that detract from the more interesting cultural ramifications of the Napster craze. And the biggest problem is that Menn gets very personal, especially when describing the business executives who got involved in Napster after its incorporation - piling on criticisms from other people who are clearly not neutral observers, and dwelling uselessly on people's love lives and personal transgressions. This goes especially for an apparent personal vendetta that Menn seems to have against John Fanning, Shawn's uncle and business strategist who muscled his way into prominence based on his nephew's invention. It's reasonably evident that John Fanning was a poor businessman and unfairly latched onto his nephew for his own gain. However, be suspicious of an author who relies on character assassinations toward someone who refused to give him an interview. Menn's questionable personal motivations and general focus on unnecessary details damage what could have been a very insightful book. [~doomsdayer520~]rd someone who refused to give him an interview. Menn's questionable personal motivations and general focus on unnecessary details damage what could have been a very insightful book. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-11-14
461412:US	52697458	R3PD7V955DE0ZW	0743492811	633082607	Between a Rock and a Hard Place	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Bored for Adventure	You surely know the source of Aron Ralston's fame - after already making waves in extreme sports circles for his outdoor exploits (especially in mountain climbing), he took an easy hike in the Utah canyons, had a boulder fall on his arm... and you know the rest. Ralston's horrific five-day ordeal is spread out slowly across this book, with interspersed chapters describing his life story and his previous outdoor exploits. Unfortunately, the non-ordeal parts of this book are far from essential, as they swing in an unfocused fashion between straight biography and adventure writing, without landing firmly in either camp. Ralston's basic biography is not unique in any way, while descriptions of his old outdoor adventures are not good examples of extreme sports writing. Ralston made a career out of putting himself, usually unwisely, in life-threatening situations. Examples include skiing in avalanche-prone areas, jumping into whitewater rapids, and winter hiking in starving bear habitat. Ralston's bragging about his old extremist achievements is not instructive for budding adventurers.<br /><br />Ralston's danger-prone lifestyle makes his easy but catastrophic hike in the canyon all the more ironic, but in this case he does notice the irony and gains some insight into the art of survival. Here Ralston does have much to teach us about surviving a near-death experience, and how he improvised and persevered in taking matters into his own hands to save himself. Ralston has no pretensions about being a hero but does know how lucky he is, and he has a good sense of humility. But unfortunately, his soul searching and appreciation for those who helped him through his ordeal are written with maudlin melodrama and almost cheesy sentimentality. And overall, Ralston's extremely wordy writing descends into absurd levels of detail, like when he describes how he made a left turn on a ski trail several years ago, how many knots he tied in his ropes during his ordeal, or every single phone call his friends and family made when he was missing. Ralston's story is definitely a harrowing one, and he has many good things to teach us about survival and inner strength. But he could have said it in a more focused way. [~doomsdayer520~]one call his friends and family made when he was missing. Ralston's story is definitely a harrowing one, and he has many good things to teach us about survival and inner strength. But he could have said it in a more focused way. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-11-10
465645:US	52697458	R1CP1TP7OMTSIK	0814788076	972034476	Copyrights and Copywrongs: The Rise of Intellectual Property and How it Threatens Creativity	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The Mess of Creativity and Ownership	This is an insightful though often quick and unfocused examination of the history of copyright law. Vaidhyanathan outlines the deceptively complicated realm of copyright law from its origins in medieval Europe to current issues with peer-to-peer networks and intellectual property. Through his sometimes creative use of legal precedents and historical trends, Vaidhyanathan reaches a few outstanding insights here, such as debunking the incorrect impression that the term \\"copyright\\" implies a right when it is actually a privilege; while modern crazes like hip-hop sampling and MP3 file sharing are not direct violations of copyright law but instead offer harsh illuminations of the gaps and inconsistencies in that law. Most importantly, the highly varied nuances and applications of copyright law in the past have been ruinously combined in recent years into the poorly defined, but disastrously applied, concept of intellectual property. Thus we have the modern corporatist view of everything as \\"property\\" that can be owned, bought, and sold, including ideas and expression.<br /><br />Vaidhyanathan provides plenty of believable evidence that this troublesome doctrine, while often disingenuously trotted out to supposedly protect original creators, does little more than enrich corporations while also chilling free speech and restricting creativity. The problem with this book is Vaidhyanathan's poorly constructed writing style, with distracting jumps in subject matter and unnecessary academic theoretical investigations into phenomena of doubtful value to the reader. An example is the chapter-long dissertation on Mark Twain's certainly voluminous but questionably influential (or relevant) thoughts on copyright law. Meanwhile, Vaidhyanathan's goal of finding the best answers to these problems is trickled out in passing throughout the book, rather than appearing authoritatively in the book's very rushed conclusion. But otherwise, if you can handle some reader-unfriendly passages, this is an acceptable look at the complex world of copyright law and how it is currently moving in all the wrong directions. [~doomsdayer520~]this is an acceptable look at the complex world of copyright law and how it is currently moving in all the wrong directions. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-11-06
466186:US	52697458	R361HOTXEA2UAF	0446678031	520466990	Skin Folk	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Caribbean Thrills and Chills	Nalo Hopkinson has made waves with some of the most offbeat and creative speculative fiction in recent memory, with her Caribbean roots adding unexpected flavor to tales of future societies and alternate realities. She's also one of the very few black women working in the field, adding a much-needed new voice to the genre. But watch out for the \\"sci-fi\\" stereotype that has been applied to Hopkinson, because she has a more well-rounded style that also includes strong elements of fantasy and horror. Those strengths are evident in this collection of short stories, which are often built upon the unique fairy tales and folklore of the Caribbean, but then proceed into all manner of great fictional speculations.<br /><br />Some of the tales here are rather underdeveloped and move along too quickly, with implausible plot jumps and incomplete conclusions. Examples are \\"Tan Tan and Dry Bone\\" which is merely a distilled vignette from one of Hopkinson's later novels; or the potentially terrifying, but rushed and inconclusive, \\"Greedy Choke Puppy.\\" However the day is saved by winners like \\"Under Glass,\\" which has a very unique doomsday/dystopia scenario, and great sketches of expatriate Caribbean characters and culture in \\"Money Tree\\" and \\"A Habit of Waste.\\" The apex of the collection is the highly disturbing erotica tale \\"Ganger (Ball Lightning),\\" in which a couple learns to overcome malfunctioning and possessed bedroom toys and work out their relationship problems the old-fashioned way. This is in fact one of Hopkinson's best running themes - as technology's got nothing on culture and humanity. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-11-05
467941:US	52697458	R18BFM3KUU4JNG	0316896896	963782618	Coyote Warrior: One Man, Three Tribes, and the Trial That Forged a Nation	Books	5	20	20	N	N	The Law of the West	At first glance this book would appear to be a rather standard documentary of the struggles faced by a particular Indian nation. That is true to a certain extent, as the book covers the Three Affiliated Tribes of North Dakota (Mandan, Hidatsa, Arikara), who until the 1950s were the most successful and self-sufficient Indians in the country, then saw their productive lands disappear under a Missouri River reservoir. After forced relocation and disenfranchisement, and political bullying from government agencies pushing through water reclamation projects that were probably a giant boondoggle, the tribes went instantly from success to destitution and dependence on the government. VanDevelder illustrates their long-term suffering through the decades-long travails and heartbreaks of the Cross family, whose father Martin led a valiant but hopeless struggle to save the tribes' livelihood and culture. The story continues through their traumatic uprooting and torn connections to their community, up to the current successes of son Raymond who has become one of the leading Indian attorneys in the nation.<br /><br />VanDevelder's extensive coverage of the careers of Martin and Raymond Cross is what makes this book unique, and much more than your typical respectful but depressing expose on current Indian affairs. VanDevelder unveils the extremely complicated nature of Indian law in general, with issues of sovereignty and broken treaties from centuries ago still mucking up court cases to this day. He also gives in-depth (though occasionally over-detailed) coverage of the particular legal maneuvers and challenges faced by the Three Affiliated Tribes and the Cross family, which thanks to the legal brilliance of Raymond and some powerful allies, finally resulted in partial justice after several decades of suffering and cultural ruination at the hands of the U.S. Government. VanDevelder writes of legal maneuvering and governmental shenanigans with a surprising amount of suspense, and somehow even makes a Supreme Court exploratory hearing seem dramatic. A bonus is VanDevelder's unique descriptions of legal precedents going back to medieval Europe in the thirteenth century, and the far-reaching historical development of Indian law in America to the present day. [~doomsdayer520~]even makes a Supreme Court exploratory hearing seem dramatic. A bonus is VanDevelder's unique descriptions of legal precedents going back to medieval Europe in the thirteenth century, and the far-reaching historical development of Indian law in America to the present day. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-11-03
470206:US	52697458	R1C4HN49IRT1G3	0742518477	69557597	Herbert Schiller (Critical Media Studies: Institutions, Politics, and Culture)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Respectful Summary of a Groundbreaking Theorist	This is a semi-biography of the influential communications theorist Herbert Schiller, and a review of most of his major works. Schiller was one of the creators of the field of political economy in communications, as he was among the first to explore the political and social aspects of mass communication structures, along with the effects of ownership structures and dominant ideologies among power players. Schiller made a large impact on academia by releasing books with hard-hitting titles like \\"The Mind Managers,\\" \\"Mass Communications and American Empire,\\" and \\"Communication and Cultural Domination\\" - titles that give an indication of the powerful implications of his theories. These works are influential among communications theorists to this day, and at the time also got Schiller into some trouble with the powers that be. Here Richard Maxwell summarizes how Schiller formulated his theories, as well as his travails with academic and governmental leaders. However, while this is an in-depth summarization of Schiller's works, it is mostly non-critical and non-judgmental as Maxwell writes as if his mentor can do no wrong. Thus we get a useful introduction to Schiller's groundbreaking theories, but for serious students, simply reading the original works is the best way to appreciate Schiller's vision. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-11-01
475982:US	52697458	R3N3637MRUB50I	0803985614	629639337	The Political Economy of Communication (Media Culture & Society series)	Books	3	8	13	N	N	Obtuse Theory Over Real Results	Mosco is one of the leading authorities on the academic body of knowledge that gives this book its title. It's qualified for the expansive title because Mosco has created a convenient and authoritative text on the theoretical side of the field. An informative introduction describes the field of political economy in communications, and its place in theoretical history. This is followed by a useful and probably groundbreaking deconstruction of the field into the sub-theories of commodification, spatialization, and structuration, while the book ends with useful tie-ins connecting the theories to associated fields like cultural studies. These theoretical concepts are fascinating for those learning about the structure of mass communications, and its effects on politics and the economy.<br /><br />The problem with this book is that the field of political economy (and not just as applied to communications) is meant to lead to real world activism and results, which can develop from an understanding of base theories. Such potential is mostly missing from this book. Other more worldly authors in this field such as Ben Bagdikian and Robert McChesney (dealing with the loss of localism due to media ownership patterns, and the affects on popular democracy from media power structures, respectively) are recommended as examples of the powerful real-world possibilities of the political economy of communications. Instead Mosco sticks with windy and obtusely written theoretical contortions that are unlikely to have much usefulness outside of academia. An example of this can be seen early in the book: \\"The specification of mutual constitution grows out of the relationship between one's theoretical formulation and empirical investigation.\\" This sentence is actually in the (relatively) straightforward introduction, and is a portent of the writing style to come, in which obtuse theory clouds the powerful possibilities of the field. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-10-27
487459:US	52697458	R1HGSPCPYJTRPG	0670031100	638630659	Mutants: On Genetic Variety and the Human Body	Books	5	8	8	N	N	We Are All Mutants	Don't expect this book to be a freak show featuring people with deformities and abnormalities. Instead, this is a rather unique genetics text that Leroi constructs from a contrarian perspective. Here Leroi utilizes the concept of mutation in order to illustrate what genes and chromosomes are supposed to do, as mutations illustrate either damaging or benign alterations. For example, early in the book he uses the example of a deformity that causes some people to be born without arms. This does not prove the existence of a gene that causes a lack of arms, but rather an error in the gene that is supposed to give us arms. Note that some knowledge of genetics and biology would be an asset as you read this book, though it is well presented for the informed general reader. There is a good deal of coverage of documented birth defects, with many types of \\"mutants\\" from conjoined twins to albinos being covered in great (and sometimes gruesome) detail. However, Leroi also includes changes to the genome, either sharp mutations or more gradual polymorphisms, that lead to all sorts of human variety from tallness to crooked teeth to red hair. (I have the first two of those myself.) The book ends with some speculations from Leroi on how genetic mutations are the cause of aging and even beauty - arguments that are disputable and inconclusive but offer great food for thought. Never before have mutants looked so normal. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-10-17
490574:US	52697458	R1BHAGC57YNXY4	0345457684	556713066	Altered Carbon (Takeshi Kovacs)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Keep Your Skull On	Here we have a wild and woolly detective yarn spliced into a bizarre cyberpunk future. Richard Morgan has come up with a great gimmick with the shifting technological aspects of human life that he explores within. Here, a person's mind and consciousness can be downloaded into a storage device (stack) and removed from and inserted into different bodies (sleeves). A person can die many times while wearing many sleeves of different races, body types, and even genders. The downtime between sleeves is spent in a virtual reality realm where time is dilated, and which can be constructed as a relaxing paradise or sanity-destroying torture based on who's doing the programming. And of course, these miraculous new technologies have swiftly come under the brutal manipulation of organized crime and the wealthy. How this all affects life and death, as well as what it means to be human, leads to some fascinating insights from Morgan.<br /><br />However, the meat of this novel revolves around a detective story that is not very focused and gets quite out of hand as it goes along. The detective Kovacs is a very inconsistent lead character, regardless of what body he's wearing, as he's either got a machine-like zen calm or erupts into uncontrolled rage. The crime he is investigating grows into an enormous conspiracy that keeps getting bigger and bigger, and less and less believable, as the novel rumbles ahead, complete with unnecessarily intertwined motives and endlessly piled-on players in the conspiracy. This book is further held back by a lot of masochistic and gratuitous violence, while much of the future cyberpunk society Morgan constructs is second-rate William Gibson. This is surely an action-packed and intriguing debut novel from Morgan, but some focus is needed with the plot and characterizations. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-10-14
495279:US	52697458	R2YLWQ5C65PJFN	0441106269	531214602	City	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Smartest Animals in the World	You would think that a sci-fi world in which humans are no more and dogs are the masters of the Earth would be found in a fanciful book for kids. Instead, Clifford Simak turned that deceptively lightweight premise into this poignant, melancholy, and even creepy collection of tales. And these are actually tales within tales, presented as snippets of folklore that have trickled down into an advanced society of dogs, tens of thousands of years in the future. In a fascinating mode of storytelling, Simak posits how dog scholars of the future place doubt on the folktales that they were once pets to man, and even doubt if humans ever existed. Dogs claim to have proven scientifically that outer space is not possible, but that inter-dimensional worlds are, and that's because of the different intellects of dogs and humans. (Though in one familiar mental twist, dogs still really hate fleas and advocate exterminating them, or possibly placing them on reservations!) There are a couple of problems with Simak's mode of presentation, as the mutant humans and wild robots who supposedly have such a large hand in these future developments are barely explained; while having the Webster family represent all of humanity and shape its course for thousands of years is implausible. But otherwise, this book offers very compelling explorations on the nature of humanity and its possible futures, philosophical differences and similarities between humans and the creatures of the natural world, and especially the processes of thought and society. Simak's unique storytelling methods here add great depth and insight to these ruminations. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-10-09
500164:US	52697458	R4BV8MRBP4R	0060089199	685155865	Bloody Sundays: Inside the Dazzling, Rough-and-Tumble World of the NFL	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Big League Issues, Midget League Writing	The modern NFL faces many very important issues, which are rarely covered amid the fandom and sensationalism of the mainstream sports press. Here Mike Freeman digs up some much-needed dirt on the poor mental and physical health of workaholic coaches and banged-up veteran players, racial matters and discrimination in the league, and drug use and domestic violence among trouble-prone players. Freeman also offers plenty of coverage about why the NFL is so successful, from great team owners and general managers, brilliant business practices at the league level, and many mature and charitable players. These are all things that both the fans and critics of the NFL should know more about, and Freeman is providing a valuable service by giving us both the great and not-so-great of the NFL.<br /><br />Unfortunately, Freeman's writing style doesn't always measure up to the challenge, resulting in a book that often seems more like a jumble of mashed-up sports-page columns rather than the strong reporting that these subjects require. Chapters and vignettes on important issues end abruptly with few authoritative conclusions. Freeman's command of language leaves something to be desired, with unfocused run-on sentences and unimaginative word choice. Early on he criticizes the modern sports press for hyper-analyzing every single move and miniscule statistic of NFL games, but then does the same thing at several spots in the book. And the end the book deteriorates into lists of Freeman's favorite players and silly reasons why he thinks football is better than baseball. These are fan-style opinions that can be found by the thousands in chat rooms and fantasy football sites, and sadly detract from the seriousness of the issues Freeman is trying to bring to light. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-10-05
504498:US	52697458	R29391HO310CUD	156849663X	8576267	Empire of the Sun	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Numbed by War	J.G. Ballard's very unique, and especially trying, childhood is detailed in this autobiographical novel that offers powerful insights into war and history. Ballard, represented by \\"Jim\\" here, was a pre-teen living with his British expatriate parents in Shanghai on the eve of World War II. When war reached the city, Jim was separated from his parents and spent the next three years in a Japanese internment camp, learning to fend for himself under the most brutal conditions. Thus Ballard's distinct life experience leads to one of the most fascinating and terrifying stories you are likely to find on the horrors and miseries of war. Jim is so preoccupied with survival that he describes the most outlandish horrors with bland matter-of-fact understatement, including multitudes of corpses floating in rivers, scores of his fellow prisoners dying of starvation and disease, public executions, and even watching human bones being made into concrete. Along the way, the human psychological factors of war are revealed as Jim grows apart from his parents, loses affinity for his own countrymen, identifies with his oppressors, and wishes for the war to continue so he doesn't have to face the unknown future. Through Ballard's powerful writing, we can see exactly why Jim (and the young Ballard in real life) would reach these states of mind. This story also offers many intuitions on the futile nature of war itself, as shifting loyalties and factionalism blur the lines between friend and foe, and post-war anarchy becomes even more dangerous than the actual war. These are all hugely enlightening insights into war from a man who experienced it himself in a very distinct way. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-09-30
512572:US	52697458	R1LTCVEJTAIXDT	0393051781	972393508	Black Earth: A Journey Through Russia After the Fall	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Land of Failed Revolutions	Since the fall of the Soviet Union, Russia has famously descended into organized crime and anarchy. Here, Andrew Meier travels to both well-covered and forgotten locations around the vast country to find how bad things have gotten, for Russian officials and regular people. Meier's travels begin in Moscow with a good outsider's view of the capital's twisted politics and uncontrolled mafia capitalism. Next is a trip to Chechnya, where war still rages despite the West's disinterest. Here Meier includes coverage of a massacre of civilians by the Russian military in the village of Aldy, and the nearly hopeless efforts of residents to find justice. Meier then travels to the far northern Siberian city of Norilsk, which has no reason to exist except for the extraction of minerals, performed by prison camp labor in the Stalin years; then the island of Sakhalin in the far east, where Moscow's grip has always been weak, leading to unique types of individualism and anarchy. Finally Meier reaches melancholy St. Petersburg, where a hoped-for renaissance of enlightenment and culture has failed under mob lawlessness and government corruption.<br /><br />These travels bring out some useful big-picture conclusions about the fate of Russia and its people. A history of prison camps and slave labor have resulted in a widespread disregard for personal rights, today's control of the economy by oligarchs and kingpins is merely a new form of feudalism, and Chechnya is just a microcosm of the ethnic separatism that could engulf vast regions of Russia. Best of all, Meier implies that Russia has gone through many revolutionary leaps in social order during its history - feudalism to monarchy to totalitarianism to capitalism - and all of these leaps failed to bring about the expected Russian golden age. Most of all, Russia continues to feel all the horrors of its past, regardless of efforts to glorify or suppress past atrocities and failures. The only problem with this book is a long, slow, and meandering writing style that could really use an editor. Meier veers off into many over-descriptions and unfocused coverage of human stories and political trends, while his sometimes lofty attempts at political philosophy don't always come to believable conclusions. [~doomsdayer520~]d meandering writing style that could really use an editor. Meier veers off into many over-descriptions and unfocused coverage of human stories and political trends, while his sometimes lofty attempts at political philosophy don't always come to believable conclusions. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-09-23
513552:US	52697458	RNLGSWFU752OC	0521813069	40097643	The Cambridge Guide to the Solar System	Books	5	6	8	N	N	One-Stop Solar System Shopping	This is a hugely informative compendium of current knowledge of our solar system. Included is up-to-date science, compiled from the missions of all the modern spacecraft, of all (make that most) of the planets plus all of their known moons; plus comets, asteroids, solar winds, magnetic fields, and everything else present in the solar system. A bonus is found in the beginning chapters of the book, which present the history of astronomical discovery by earthbound explorers, and also a large chapter on Earth itself. Included are informative treatises on the Earth's geology, topology, and atmosphere, setting up equally fascinating examinations of those topics on the other planets. Thus we get up-to-date and in-depth coverage of everything from the bizarre volcanoes of Venus to the encrusted oceans of Europa to the pink smog of Titan. Just watch out for some sneaky politics in the chapter on the Earth, as coverage of atmospheric changes leads to some not wholly appropriate comments on the political side of global warming. And while the book is uniformly fascinating and informative, one humbug for me is a nearly complete lack of coverage for Pluto. This is likely because we haven't yet been able to send a spacecraft there, and also because the creators of this book have followed the currently accepted scientific theory of Pluto as a non-planet that doesn't deserve the attention of the \\"real\\" planets. (In fact, Pluto is actually missing from the book's lists of planets of the solar system). Come on, cut the little guy some slack already! [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-09-22
519842:US	52697458	R3CF5HNWJIBP1R	0060927267	982558758	The Between	Books	5	3	3	N	N	There's No Such Thing as Dreams	This is a great psychological thriller mixing traditional African and Caribbean spirituality with modern social problems. The main character Hilton thinks he's going insane with nightmares about death and threats to his family, but he is really tuning in subconsciously to the realm of \\"The Between\\"- between life and death. Tananarive Due incorporates fascinating concepts from Ghanaian and Haitian mythology to construct this haunting dimension, in which life and death converge to affect waking reality in disturbing ways. Meanwhile, the action of the story involves a white supremacist who is supposedly stalking Hilton's wife, a prominent black judge. But the racist villain might only be a tool for darker forces yearning for an underworld-style vengeance on Hilton, who has an unknown genetic affinity with such forces of life and death. I agree with a few other reviewers that these supernatural phenomena are a bit under-explained in the narrative, while the hereditary angle in which Hilton may have passed things on to his children is introduced but dropped inconclusively. However, the characters are uniformly well-drawn and empathetic, and overall this is a winning suspense novel with a very creative ethnic twist on the supernatural. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-09-16
521154:US	52697458	R30VGV0YW6DL7Y	0226534219	623457278	How to Lie with Maps (2nd Edition)	Books	3	31	43	N	N	How to Wreck an Interesting Subject	This book is not quite the treatise on fraud and deception in the world of cartography that may seem evident from the publisher's descriptions. Such examinations do appear here and there, especially with some intriguing coverage of Nazi and Soviet cartographic shenanigans. Instead this is mostly a textbook for beginning geography students on how maps are never completely realistic, and always tell lies about the real  environments that they claim to depict. These range from necessary white lies on flat maps depicting the three-dimensional Earth (especially when it comes to rugged terrain or heavily clustered urban areas); to outright propaganda and militarism in political maps. More trouble arises with printing methods, color and shading, and statistical categorizations in data maps (such as those explaining census results). Thus \\"lying\\" with maps is not always consciously fraudulent, and is even required when the aim of a map is clarity and utility.<br /><br />Thus Monmonier has created a rather unique textbook for those who make maps and those who use them in professional decision-making. Unfortunately Monmonier has the habit of belittling everyone who doesn't appreciate how hard cartographers really have it. He continuously degrades mapmakers as incompetent and diabolical, and map users as illiterate and ignorant, topping out in chapter 6 with \\"...the public's graphic naivete and appalling ignorance of maps.\\" Personal politics abound too, such as in a description of an inaccurate map of Grenada. He constructs fictitious zoning boards and planning commissions in order to show his disagreement with the way those bodies operate. All of the maps illustrating cartographic advertising and boosterism in chapters 5 and 6 are fictitious, even though there are surely real-life examples of maps that could prove Monmonier's points, and chapter 10 devolves into interminable statistics when describing some highly esoteric problems with data (or choropleth) maps. Interested readers might find themselves as exasperated as Monmonier's geography students. [~doomsdayer520~]ght find themselves as exasperated as Monmonier's geography students. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-09-15
526853:US	52697458	R17J1R9NEQJEFE	0871873206	449085349	Mass media and American politics	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A Good All-Inclusive Introductory Text	This well-compiled textbook gathers basic theoretical introductions to all aspects of the relationship between the American media and the political system. Included are basic mass communication concepts such as agenda setting and gatekeeping, which are then projected into larger media trends and governmental/media interactions in all relevant directions. The book provides descriptions of how government affects media (ownership regulations, First Amendment rules, libel laws), how media affects government (building of public opinion, muckraking, watchdog responsibilities), and how the connections between government and media affect the public (opinion patterns, voting behavior, political knowledge levels). One recurring problem here is that the book is often noncommittal in describing contentious political issues, which is a result of trying to present arguments from all sides. This tends to reduce the perceived importance of some crucial issues in the reader's mind, especially problems with media ownership patterns in recent years, and issues arising from modern deregulation. Meanwhile, the book's sectional arrangement, as is true for many textbooks, leads to a fair amount of repetition and re-explanations of basic concepts (a real problem in the adjoining chapters for the different branches of government, for example). In any case this book is a very useful introduction to a wide range of theoretical areas, and impressively prepares the reader for more in-depth research endeavors. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-09-09
530789:US	52697458	R3MODCP0OW0C7M	0060198400	917355240	The Burning Tigris: The Armenian Genocide and America's Response	Books	4	75	89	N	N	It Really Happened	A glance at this book's reviews here will show you that something fishy is going on. When a book with modest sales gets many very intense reviews, which in turn get hundreds of both positive and negative votes, you can tell that the book is highly charged and has evoked the same tendencies in certain groups of people. It's evident that some of the more passionate \\"reviewers\\" (on both sides) probably didn't even read the book and are using this forum to advance their own positions on the tragedy of the Armenian massacres, at the hands of the Ottoman Empire a century ago. Some critics of this book with vested interests in the catastrophe vociferate incessantly about Peter Balakian's political agenda on behalf of his people, as if all books were required to be completely noncommittal on shameful tragedies of history.<br /><br />Balakian is on the side of the Armenians, and he has the right to be. But this book makes use of the voluminous evidence available proving the tragedies of the Armenians, including the widespread legitimate news sources of the period, eyewitness accounts of government officials from a variety of nations on all sides of the political spectrum, and even documents from Turkey's parliamentary archives. Yes the massacres of at least a million Armenians really happened. Those critics pouncing on the writer's political motives and trying to find excuses for the Ottoman Empire are merely displaying their own political agenda, which is the despicable pseudo-philosophy of holocaust denial. This is a shameful insult not just to the affected populations, but to thinking people everywhere.<br /><br />Not being Armenian or Turkish myself, that's as far as I want to get into the everlasting political arguments behind this issue. Now it's finally time to review the book on its own merits. One fascinating aspect of this book is Balakian's coverage of the vast human rights activism in American and Europe to aid the Armenians, featuring many prestigious politicians and philanthropists. However, he misses the point that America was probably so concerned about the Armenians because they were Christian and Caucasian, while other human rights catastrophes afflicting other populations were often ignored, such as that in the Congo which happened around the same time. While Balakian's basic focus is on the responses of the Western powers, his concurrent history of the genocidal episodes themselves becomes just too much of a horrible thing, with repetitive reports of atrocities in various locations that are certainly respectful to the victims, but taxing for the general reader. Balakian's frequent comparisons of the Ottoman atrocities to the later behavior of the Nazis become quite annoying and take on aspects of a guilt trip, while constant criticism of Western inaction and calls for the punishment of Turkey are not constructive. [~doomsdayer520~]ticians and philanthropists. However, he misses the point that America was probably so concerned about the Armenians because they were Christian and Caucasian, while other human rights catastrophes afflicting other populations were often ignored, such as that in the Congo which happened around the same time. While Balakian's basic focus is on the responses of the Western powers, his concurrent history of the genocidal episodes themselves becomes just too much of a horrible thing, with repetitive reports of atrocities in various locations that are certainly respectful to the victims, but taxing for the general reader. Balakian's frequent comparisons of the Ottoman atrocities to the later behavior of the Nazis become quite annoying and take on aspects of a guilt trip, while constant criticism of Western inaction and calls for the punishment of Turkey are not constructive. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-09-06
533670:US	52697458	R30KIK5GTXW0YH	0743258584	439248830	Stand Up, Fight Back: Republican Toughs, Democratic Wimps, and the Politics of Revenge	Books	4	10	14	N	N	The Age of Unreason	E.J. Dionne is a levelheaded and experienced Democrat and here he tempers his criticism of the Republican Party's harmful policies with deeper examinations of how the Democrats have failed to remain part of the scene and to stand up for their own ideals. The root of both problems is the current American political climate of revenge and power grabs, rather than the constructive advancement of strong ideas. Dionne realizes, much better than most of this year's political writers, that the arrogance and unyielding ideology of the Bush camp is really just a symptom of the current political culture.<br /><br />Dionne does a great job pointing out the ridiculous double standards employed by the Republicans. Examples include calling even the mildest criticism of Bush unpatriotic even though Republicans continuously heaped far worse on Clinton; claiming populism while slavishly kowtowing to corporations and wealthy campaign contributors; or piling on rhetoric against \\"big government\\" at home while acting in Iraq as the most heavy-handed government the world has ever seen. But Dionne also has plenty of constructive criticism for the hugely disappointing failure of the Democrats in opposing the relentless push of far-right conservatism, not just in politics but also economics, moral values, media, and even language. The Democrats have failed to present a united front (as can be seen in the vastly different behavior of the two parties during the Florida recount travesty of 2000), are afraid to stand up for their own beliefs, are prone to watering down their agenda to avoid Republican name-calling such as \\"liberal\\" or \\"un-American,\\" and have failed to inspire the large percentage of Americans looking for an alternative to the elitist policies of the neo-conservatives.<br /><br />I agree with some other reviewers that anyone concerned about the performance of the Democratic Party should read this book. This will both encourage strength in those interested in America's (now dormant) tradition of progressivism, and shed light on the faults and weaknesses of the Republicans. The only problem with this book is a rather irritating know-it-all attitude, as Dionne often throws around stipulations like \\"most Americans feel...\\" or \\" the majority believes...\\" with little indication of how he knows this. Dionne is certainly in tune with the electorate, but I suspect that he may be relying on inaccurate polling data just like those more out-of touch politicos from both sides. [~doomsdayer520~]f progressivism, and shed light on the faults and weaknesses of the Republicans. The only problem with this book is a rather irritating know-it-all attitude, as Dionne often throws around stipulations like \\"most Americans feel...\\" or \\" the majority believes...\\" with little indication of how he knows this. Dionne is certainly in tune with the electorate, but I suspect that he may be relying on inaccurate polling data just like those more out-of touch politicos from both sides. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-09-03
536513:US	52697458	RK70YSRLTU56S	0553374591	231757401	Feersum Endjinn	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Either Brilliant or Dreadful	This is the type of unconventionally constructed novel that will split people into two camps, as you can see here in the customer reviews. Some will think it's an absolutely brilliant powerhouse of creativity, while others will consider it dreadfully self-indulgent drivel. When it comes to this novel by Iain Banks, it appears to me that neither of those extreme opinions is right or wrong and it all depends on the reader's particular mindset. I place myself in the middle because I can see both sides of the argument. On the brilliant side, this novel does have an especially strange doomsday scenario brought on by a slow-moving astronomical disaster. The despots in control are more concerned with keeping power than helping humanity avoid the catastrophe, while those who have plans for salvation are branded as dissidents, and imprisoned and tortured in bizarre virtual planes of existence. In this last regard, Banks has created some great examples of virtual vs. base reality, with strange psychedelic twists on space and time that show a real affinity for the classic mind-expansion SF of the late 1960s.<br /><br />Unfortunately, there is also a dreadful side to this book, especially when the psychedelic feats of Banks' imagination overwhelm the main plot as described above, and the book gets bogged down in the literary equivalent of jam band noodling. And when it comes to the character who speaks phonetically (and based on a thick Scottish brogue to boot), some readers find this to be brilliant wordplay by Banks. Well I find it especially dreadful. The phonetic \\"prose\\" is so thick and inconsistent that it took me forever trying to figure out the words being said, as the plot and characters were buried by the sheer drudgery of trying to read. In the end I had little understanding of what this character really had to do with the rest of the story, and this contributes to an unsatisfying and inconclusive climax to the book. That's what brings this potentially awe-inspiring novel back down to the average level, as the brilliance can't quite shake off the dreadfulness. [~doomsdayer520~]g novel back down to the average level, as the brilliance can't quite shake off the dreadfulness. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-09-01
542096:US	52697458	R231IF7XNV9L2N	0375409297	640904957	The Mapmakers, Revised Edition	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Where It's At	I have always been fascinated by maps, as both sources of information and representations of nature's design. I'm glad I'm not alone in that regard, and anyone with an interest in maps or mapmaking will be intrigued by this heavily informative book. Wilford takes us from the very earliest maps of ancient times and lays out in-depth histories of all the uses, effects, and technologies of maps up to the present day. The early parts of the book also tell us about the often unexpected challenges faced by mapmakers, such as drawing straight lines on the round Earth (which was later found to not be a perfect sphere anyway), projecting the round Earth onto flat maps, and the sheer enormity of the task of mapping the Earth itself. It turns out that these challenges even make many current maps inaccurate. Later chapters move into modern technologies such as radar or aerial photography, which are being used to more accurately map the Earth's landscapes, as well as the ocean floors and the surfaces of other planets. Just note that the second half of the book often slows down significantly with various technological descriptions of each new mapmaking tool or method, which may not tickle the fancy of non-scientific readers. But in any case, after this book you'll have a new appreciation for maps and their makers. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-08-27
548087:US	52697458	R3TLMDKRM7SOWJ	0670032646	621157776	American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush	Books	4	13	15	N	N	It's Not What You Know...	This book has been lumped in with the wave of anti-Bush books to come out in the past year or so. I've become familiar with many of those books, and find that Phillips' work has been inaccurately categorized. This book is not focused exclusively on bashing George W. Bush, when compared to the more loudmouthed books of the type mentioned above. Instead, here we have a much deeper and more intricate examination into economic, social, and political history with very beefy treatises on the rise of a long term Bush \\"dynasty.\\" Before the two presidents, this goes way back to ancestors George Herbert Walker and Samuel Prescott Bush in the late 1800s. The development of this closely cultivated family dynasty, its effects on politics and history, and its involvement in a seemingly non-stop barrage of scandals are Phillips' areas of concern. In addition, Phillips postulates that the building of a family dynasty that is so well connected is inherently undemocratic and against the wishes of the American founding fathers.<br /><br />The problem here is that Phillips' historical precedents and analogies don't come strongly to fruition. Comparisons to the English Stuarts and French Bourbons, along with attempts to find patterns between their scandals and those of the Bushes, are compelling but generally circumstantial. Phillips also repeatedly drifts from his main thesis into long investigations into Bush dynasty scandals such as the 1980 October Surprise (delaying the release of the Iranian hostages to score political points for Reagan) or \\"Iraqgate\\" (George H.W. Bush's many years of arming Iraq before turning that nation into America's mortal enemy). These and other historical treatments are also in-depth and often fascinating, but send Phillips' main thesis off on distracting tangents. His political science and historical investigation are certainly hard-hitting and informative. Unfortunately Phillips fails to build on some major concerns that are inherent in his arguments concerning these sheltered, wealthy, and infinitely connected elitists with absolutely no connection to work-a-day Americans. This especially includes how this Bush dynasty has traditionally considered itself above the law and above the basic democratic process (as in the 2000 election), all the while pretending to represent regular working people. We can see here that this is not even close to the real Bush constituency. (...)hese sheltered, wealthy, and infinitely connected elitists with absolutely no connection to work-a-day Americans. This especially includes how this Bush dynasty has traditionally considered itself above the law and above the basic democratic process (as in the 2000 election), all the while pretending to represent regular working people. We can see here that this is not even close to the real Bush constituency. (...)	2004-08-21
552226:US	52697458	RFY807JJVKLKI	0375414614	62565550	A Continent for the Taking: The Tragedy and Hope of Africa	Books	5	38	42	N	N	No Longer in the Heart of Darkness	Reporting from the ground in several trouble-prone nations, Howard French explains how sub-Saharan Africa is still being subjected to the whims of the outside world. Former rounds of slavery and colonialism are simply continuing under a new form of domination based on facilitating far-off political games, and enriching multinational corporations through the shameless appropriation of natural resources. All the while, the people of Africa continue to be exploited and forgotten by the rest of the world. French does find one (partially) happy success story in Mali, whose hardworking people have started a homegrown move toward democracy with nonexistent interest or support from outside. However, much of this book covers the violence and mayhem that still afflict much of Africa, displaying the lingering legacies of colonialism and economic exploitation.<br /><br />Included here are quick examinations of the relentless political corruption in the potentially successful Nigeria, which has a strong population and political culture but also the corrupting influence of Western corporate profiteering; and the sorry subversion of democratic progress by violent local warlords in sleepy Congo-Brazzaville. French writes many pages on the catastrophic civil war in Liberia, fueled by drug-addicted teenage soldiers and genocidal competing dictators. In the process French devastatingly debunks the rebel leader Charles Taylor, who has become a supposed American poster boy for democratic reform.<br /><br />The greatest part of the book is based on French's knowledge of events in Congo (formerly Zaire), including stirring eyewitness accounts of the 1997 insurrection that toppled the despicable lifetime dictator Mobutu Sese Seko, who had also been an American favorite. The best aspects of this book are French's very well informed (though sometimes bitter) examinations of American policy toward Africa's ceaseless problems, which are often based on pillow talk about democracy and capitalism while actually supporting bloodthirsty dictators and weaseling out of taking action during humanitarian catastrophes. This illuminating and occasionally gut-wrenching account of Africa's continuing misery does offer some rays of hope, in that there could be salvation for Africa if the outside would simply stop exploiting the continent and try to truly understand it. [~doomsdayer520~]alism while actually supporting bloodthirsty dictators and weaseling out of taking action during humanitarian catastrophes. This illuminating and occasionally gut-wrenching account of Africa's continuing misery does offer some rays of hope, in that there could be salvation for Africa if the outside would simply stop exploiting the continent and try to truly understand it. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-08-18
555495:US	52697458	R1FSK48FR9X5BU	0060184701	683960669	Journal of the Dead: A Story of Friendship and Murder in the New Mexico Desert	Books	3	16	18	N	N	A Nail-Biting but Thin Report	This rather insubstantial book covers the case of two friends from back east who got lost while camping in the New Mexico desert. Just half a mile from their car, Raffi Kodikian and David Coughlin succumbed to dehydration and heatstroke, and then Kodikian supposedly murdered his best friend Coughlin out of mercy. Jason Kersten has done little actual investigation of his own, and mostly rehashes court testimony and existing reports, often at great length. Kersten also badly needs a fact checker, who would have caught some frequent errors like the implication that the Potomac River flows through Philadelphia (only two states off). A calendar would have also helped. At one point, Kersten says that August 13th of the year in question was on Friday, then later in the same paragraph he says that the previous Friday was the 4th. Later in the book, August 6th is given as a Wednesday. These careless slip-ups don't exactly inspire confidence in the rest of the book. Kersten also raises some important mysteries about the case but doesn't bother exploring them in depth, such as how the two friends were able to carry 50-pound rocks around their campsite when they were supposedly near death from dehydration. The fact that the lawyers didn't dwell too much on this and other mysteries in court apparently eliminated Kersten's interest in investigating further. The basic story of friendship and suffering leads to some real page-turning drama, and you really feel for all the people involved in the tragedy. But ultimately, Kersten's account just feels like a long feature article for a certain type of men's magazine. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-08-15
556308:US	52697458	R3K05QUVIPR0NY	0312860986	999993855	China Mountain Zhang	Books	3	13	21	N	N	Chinese Futures	It's no surprise that most science fiction, at least that consumed in the West, features futures that are projections of American or European society, and sometimes very simple projections. This book by McHugh certainly breaks new ground by giving us a sci-fi future that is a projection of Chinese culture, after that nation's brand of Socialism has overtaken most of the Earth and has even colonized Mars with communes. This is an outstanding bit of creativity that could potentially open new doors in exciting storyline construction. Unfortunately, that is not the case here except for a few interesting examinations of human rights and cultural identity under worldwide totalitarianism. Otherwise. McHugh merely uses the interesting premise as a backdrop for occasionally moving but mostly predictable character sketches. Some reviewers have complained that the book has no plot, while others have praised it as a ruminative literary composition. Actually neither of these is completely true, because the book is simply a collection of tangentially related short stories (incorrectly presented by the publishers as a novel) that once again are mostly character sketches of people going about their lives in this strange new world. But other than the tragic and forlorn San-xiang, the characters are mostly flat and lifeless, and many of their travails and struggles are dropped inconclusively. This goes especially for the unexciting lifecycles of the central character Zhang. This book is a telling example of a great premise brought up short by unfocused writing. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-08-14
556956:US	52697458	R3PD9BJDA7RXRP	0684862190	628491114	The Soul of Capitalism: Opening Paths to a Moral Economy	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Mostly Greider's Morals	William Greider certainly has the status and prestige to write about the inequities of the American style of capitalism, which is not the unassailable apotheosis of human civilization. Of course, for most of American history it has been impossible to even remotely point out flaws in capitalism without being branded a Socialist, or recently, getting the extraordinarily narrow-minded condemnation of \\"Un-American.\\" Our version of capitalism does have the severe weakness of being structurally incapable of considering the social and environmental costs of production, while wealth will inevitably become concentrated and poorly distributed, even among those whose work created that wealth. Greider presents a well-considered and articulate examination of these inequities, along with telling examples of corporate ethical lapses and discriminatory government practices. He also has a reasonably inspiring list of citizens, small businesses, and local governments that are coming up with new ideas for more equitable forms of law and capitalism.<br /><br />This is all well and good, and occasionally inspiring. Unfortunately, Greider's tales of groundbreakers and visionaries can't reach the next level of believable prescriptions for true improvements across all of American society. Thus we ultimately get little more than Greider's own moral beliefs concerning the current American capitalist system. He comes close to tackling the true structural weaknesses in our social and economic systems, and is much closer to understanding the causes, rather than just the symptoms, than most reform-minded writers. However, his ideas for future improvements mostly get bogged down in flimsy pronouncements like \\"our main responsibility is to the future\\" or a general plea for poorly defined \\"narratives\\" among visionary citizens. This book does a great job of pointing out current problems and proclaiming the need for change, but its ultimate call for action doesn't have much bite. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-08-13
560380:US	52697458	R2LM7M1VE1UBIX	0765306794	584076112	Dreams Underfoot: A Newford Collection	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Impossible Possibilities	Charles de Lint is a creator of unique stories that mix fantasy with urban legends; featuring the outcasts, oddballs, eccentrics, and the unfortunate of the fictitious city of Newford, which curiously has familiar aspects of both New England and the Pacific Northwest (in my somewhat well-traveled opinion). Thus, engagingly human characters and settings interact with the whimsical spirits and creatures of classic fantasy writing, with the running theme being that only those who truly believe can see the other side of reality. A nice gimmick is that some of these stories are supposedly from the mind of fictitious writer Christy Riddell, who is constructed as de Lint's fantasy world alter-ego, so you are sometimes transported into the imaginations of both the author and the characters.<br /><br />The stories range from the whimsical, such as a street kid setting the spirits of bicycles free, to several tales of abused and unloved children turning to other realms of belief for support (offering some unexpectedly chilling or shocking moments from de Lint), to tales of lost loves and quests to find one's inner strengths. This collection of inter-related short stories centered on the mystically-minded residents of Newford does suffer from some inconsistency. Some stories such as \\"Romano Drom\\" or \\"The Sacred Fire\\" (among others) suffer from poor plot development, with a lot of all-of-a-sudden's and from-out-of-nowhere's. Some of the characters are so whimsical, eccentric, and kind-hearted that they stretch the bounds of believability; while the recurring themes of hope and belief get a bit heavy-handed. However, de Lint has created his own very unique world(s) of fantasy, for readers looking for creative and offbeat mysticism. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-08-10
562250:US	52697458	R3M3LXK8R2UV1R	0060524235	848654534	Escaping the Delta: Robert Johnson and the Invention of the Blues	Books	5	35	40	N	N	Up Jumped the Blues	This is a fascinating study of the history of blues music, as distilled through the life of Robert Johnson. As the book progresses, Wald gives us a much clearer understanding of the man and the music on their own terms, and expertly deconstructs the myths and stereotypes that have been propagated by recent revivalists. Modern white fans have a much different view of Robert Johnson and his contemporaries than they had of themselves. The blues was once mainstream pop music among black audiences in the first half of the 20th century, constantly evolving and striving for sales and popularity, rather than the static and mythologized roots music envisioned by today's purists.<br /><br />Wald provides convincing evidence that Robert Johnson was far from the troubled loner and brooding genius who single-handedly revolutionized western music in miserable backwoods locations, as current fandom mythology would tell you. Instead, Johnson was a professional entertainer who dreamed of being that era's equivalent of a rock star, as did most other blues musicians of the time. Johnson's music, while certainly compelling, wasn't even that unique or original when seen in the context of its time, as Wald finds evidence that he often simply updated the works of his major influences like Leroy Carr, Son House, or Kokomo Arnold. The blues musicians of the time were also adept at many different pop and mainstream styles, and Johnson was no exception, as Wald shows us through Johnson's decidedly non-Delta songs like \\"They're Red Hot\\" or \\"From Four Till Late.\\" Interestingly, Johnson wasn't even very successful or influential in his own time (the 1930's), and was mostly unknown even in the blues community until he was rediscovered by white revivalists in the 60's.<br /><br />Wald continues into an examination of how contemporary black audiences and musicians of the time had vastly different views of the music than modern cult purists, and the music of Robert Johnson and his contemporaries can only be truly understood by looking at it in these proper contexts. In the end we find that Johnson was still a genius but was much more human than his modern legends suggest. The same goes for the blues in general. Other reviewers have noted that Wald's writing tends to be overly academic and boring. I concur that he does tend to over-elaborate on his arguments, providing voluminous evidence for points that he already made convincingly long before. That leads to believable research breakthroughs, but a book that is sometimes much more wordy than it needs to be. But other than that minor weakness, this is an outstanding accomplishment of musicology, and will prove fascinating for blues aficionados as well as anyone interested in the history of American music. [~doomsdayer520~]s can only be truly understood by looking at it in these proper contexts. In the end we find that Johnson was still a genius but was much more human than his modern legends suggest. The same goes for the blues in general. Other reviewers have noted that Wald's writing tends to be overly academic and boring. I concur that he does tend to over-elaborate on his arguments, providing voluminous evidence for points that he already made convincingly long before. That leads to believable research breakthroughs, but a book that is sometimes much more wordy than it needs to be. But other than that minor weakness, this is an outstanding accomplishment of musicology, and will prove fascinating for blues aficionados as well as anyone interested in the history of American music. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-08-08
564988:US	52697458	RJBVBPDQKYX9R	0061057983	514473042	Diaspora	Books	3	10	18	N	N	Hard Consciousness	When it comes to hard science, this novel by Greg Egan is tremendous. A millennium from now, humans will have mastered the arts of digitizing consciousness into infinite networks that stretch across the universe. Through computerized manipulations of relativity and wormholes, &quot;people&quot; now lead &quot;lives&quot; that can transcend space, time, and even the laws of physics. Greg Egan makes use of cutting-edge (for the present) theories of astrophysics and cosmology, and projects current intellectual trends into some fictitious future theories, in order bring these fantastic concepts to life. And fantastic they are, if you merely look at the hard sci-fi aspects of the story. Unfortunately, these giant feats of the imagination are somehow made boring in a novel that is nearly devoid of engaging plotlines or empathetic characters.<br /><br /> The character of &quot;The Orphan&quot; has a rather interesting development through pseudo-birth in the network and socialization with other digital beings; while there are (a few) fascinating explorations of the cultures of old-school humans who demand to stay in the flesh, those who are digitized but maintain robotic bodies for some physical experience, and those who are completely digitized. The problem with the book is that the conflicts between these cultures offer occasionally great ruminations on the present and future state of humanity and what it truly means to be &quot;human,&quot; but these intriguing themes are fighting for air beneath an avalanche of hard science. The plot development and climax of this book mostly entail whether advanced scientific theories will be proven, rather than whether events or character development will lead to a moral or message that can sink into the reader's consciousness. So that makes this book outstanding &quot;sci&quot; but problematic &quot;fi.&quot; [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-08-05
567247:US	52697458	R3DKM6HAVZ4ZCF	1400041767	317543586	At the Tomb of the Inflatable Pig: Travels Through Paraguay	Books	3	21	27	N	N	Eccentric Land, Faux-Eccentric Writing	With its interesting cultures, landscapes, and history, Paraguay is an engagingly eccentric and unexpectedly fascinating land. It's full of the descendants of strange groups of utopia-obsessed immigrants, who usually simply got stuck in forbidding locations and maintain weak cultural connections to their homelands. Meanwhile Paraguay remains the most indigenous nation in the Americas, and even uses the mother tongue of its original Indian inhabitants as the official language. Unfortunately, John Gimlette tries way too hard to get that charm across in this book. His writing style is overflowing with annoying non-sequiturs and forced eccentricity that leads to some chuckles and a few unexpected insights, but fails to draw the reader's interest toward all Paraguay has to offer. Gimlette is so concerned with writing in a supposedly eccentric style, that he pretty much passes over the normal in favor of the mildly charming or offbeat. Thus the book jumps around annoyingly and haphazardly among disconnected snippets of so-called &quot;interesting&quot; history, people, and locations. Therefore I doubt that this book gives a truly representative account of a land that is surely fascinating for many different reasons, from the strange to the mundane. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-08-03
571565:US	52697458	R2LTE6CGYN1P7Q	0446677248	641220763	Dark Matter: A Century of Speculative Fiction from the African Diaspora	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The Darkness Matters	This is a collection that the literary world needed badly. Typical 'speculative fiction' (encompassing sci-fi, fantasy, horror, and other literary persuasions) often features humanity uniting against common enemies or disasters. But for people of color, the alternative present or near-future utopia/dystopia in any speculative story probably won't be so rosy. Technological advancement, alien contact, or astronomical disasters probably won't eliminate prejudice and inequality, as the writers of African descent collected here show us in consistently hard-hitting ways.<br /><br />The settings and themes of these short stories are uniformly fascinating and thought-provoking for any intelligent reader. As with any collection of works from various writers, the quality of the stories varies a bit, and this book does have a few bumps in the road that deserve the thumbs-down for heavy-handedness. Examples include the predictable melodrama of 'The Woman in the Wall' by Steven Barnes, or the poorly-plotted conspiracy theories of 'The Space Traders' by Derrick Bell. However, these are minor quibbles, and even these stories contribute to the sheer fascination of this book as a whole.<br /><br />My favorites include the supremely moving Jazz Age vampire story 'Chicago 1927' by Jewelle Gomez, an outstanding look at the human costs of cloning in 'Like Daughter' by Tananarive Due, the creepy erotic thriller 'Ganger (Ball Lightning)' by Nalo Hopkinson, and the heartbreaking dark fantasy of 'Gimmile's Songs' by Charles Saunders. Of historical interest we have 'Aye, and Gomorrah...' from the master Samuel Delany, the groundbreaking 'The Goophered Grapevine' from way back in 1887 by Charles Chesnutt, and the very chilling 'The Comet' by W.E.B. DuBois (I had forgotten that DuBois wrote fiction, and his important stories are ripe for rediscovery). Kudos to Sheree Thomas for creating this hugely important, haunting, and illuminating anthology. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-07-30
576767:US	52697458	R27ZB07TNJUA7	0374117403	7704582	The Burma Road: The Epic Story of the China-Burma-India Theater in World War II	Books	4	5	7	N	N	An Informative but Unengrossing History	Here Donovan Webster gives us a serviceable history of what is probably the least appreciated theatre of operation during World War II, the China-Burma-India (CBI) campaign. Much of the story doesn't actually cover the Burma Road itself, that being the land route for the delivery of supplies from Burma into southern China (then a US ally), which was needed for circumventing Japanese sea and air blockades. Instead, much of this book focuses on the efforts of India-based Allied troops in expelling the Japanese from Indochina, particularly Burma, which they had besieged as a stepping stone toward controlling Singapore and India. This story is told mostly from the perspective of General Joseph Stilwell, and his tactical strategies and diplomatic troubles with Chiang Kai-Shek and unenthusiastic military planners back home provide intrigue for the book. Another bonus is some coverage of the real-life Bridge Over the River Kwai, actually the Kwae Yai River in Thailand.<br /><br /> However, the book becomes mostly a straight military history of battles and logistics, with little effort made to explore underlying phenomena. For example, Webster usually provides little context for what was going on simultaneously in other theatres of operation during the war, accidentally reinforcing claims that the CBI campaign was ultimately unimportant for the outcome of the war, which Webster is trying to debunk. And what's especially missing is any coverage whatsoever of the people of Burma, other than the Kachins, an ethnic group who joined the Allied forces. There is almost no description of the local peoples and how they had to deal with two foreign armies obliterating their land just to use it as a stepping stone, and how this may have affected their society for decades to come. Also missing is any conclusion covering the true impact of the CBI campaign on the overall outcome of WWII, if there was any. That makes this book high on names and dates, but low on insight. [~doomsdayer520~]20~]	2004-07-26
578979:US	52697458	R960UB84UFYJH	0393051331	382357925	Ishi's Brain: In Search of America's Last "Wild" Indian	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Moving Anthropological Saga	The story of Ishi is fairly well known. He was the mythologized last lonely &quot;unconquered&quot; Indian who was captured in California in 1911, then spent the last few years of his life as either a guest or prisoner at a San Francisco museum, looked over by scientists who were friendly but had suspicious motives. Since Ishi's death, rumors had persisted that his brain was removed for scientific study, and modern California Indians yearned for the brain to be reunited with Ishi's ashes (themselves kept in a San Francisco cemetery), so Ishi could be given a proper Indian burial in his mountain homeland. The author, modern anthropologist Orin Starn, was instrumental in finding the brain in an obscure Smithsonian storeroom, and for helping with the process of repatriation. This detective work is the main impetus for this moving book.<br /><br /> However, Starn describes much more than a dry academic detective story. While he tends to talk about himself a little too much and his philosophical explorations could use some editing, Starn fills this book with highly compelling coverage of modern cultural identity politics for all the parties involved in the Ishi saga. These include the modern California Indians and their divisive struggles to prove their ancestral connection to Ishi, modern whites who embrace stereotypical native mythology with misguided or even ulterior motives, and anthropologists (Starn's forbears) who have displayed shifting loyalties and ethics in their study of so-called &quot;primitive&quot; peoples. Starn also find inconsistencies in the knowledge of Ishi's life and background as espoused by caretaker anthropologist Alfred Kroeber and his wife Theodora, who wrote the famous but not entirely accurate biography &quot;Ishi in Two Worlds.&quot; Most importantly, Starn also turns up new evidence and raises new questions about the mysterious Ishi himself, who was surely more complex and human than the semi-mythological image that surrounds his life and identity. This book is a strongly considered and moving look into the far-reaching cultural legacies of a single Indian, the decimation of his people, and the modern lives of Native Americans and all others who are concerned about these legacies. [~doomsdayer520~]nd identity. This book is a strongly considered and moving look into the far-reaching cultural legacies of a single Indian, the decimation of his people, and the modern lives of Native Americans and all others who are concerned about these legacies. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-07-23
582561:US	52697458	R2P1Q6JMJ7CHRL	0679767819	664674670	The Demolished Man	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Breakneck ESP	It's too bad that Alfred Bester didn't release more novels during his career, because he was surely ahead of his time. I highly recommend both this book and Bester's other classic &quot;The Stars My Destination&quot; as wild and woolly examples of speculative sci-fi at its best. Bester truly had a strange imagination (that's putting it politely) and his novels are completely fascinating if only for their relentless weirdness. This book deals with all the possible uses and abuses of ESP, as a telepathic cop pursues a suspect who has committed a crime ? murder ? which has not happened in decades, because the telepaths (or &quot;Espers&quot; here) would know about it beforehand. The Espers are a philanthropic society dedicated to using their powers for the good of humanity, but Bester adds a great twist with an arch-conservative faction complaining about a loss of their individual telepathic rights. Well that's depressingly familiar. The good guy and the bad guy battle each other in a blindingly fast plot full of telepathic skullduggery, and the cop's method of capture is an astonishing feat of Bester's imagination. Yes there are a few holes in the plot, and like much sci-fi the characterizations are on the weak side. But if you want mind-bending feats of a bizarre imagination, this is the place. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-07-20
583149:US	52697458	R27JRG25YZDKQ1	1565846346	686309018	Rich Media, Poor Democracy: Communication Politics in Dubious Times	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Our Leading Authority on Communication Politics	I am a graduate student researching the political structure (or political economy) of the media, and have found the works of Robert McChesney to be very influential for my studies. Here he analyzes how the corporate control of the modern media affects American democracy, and his insights into these areas are both illuminating and shockingly obvious, with a real knack for bringing out common sense enlightenment in understanding the nonsensical behavior and structure of the media. McChesney strongly argues that the media is the one industry most closely connected to the democratic health of the nation, because a democracy functions best when the citizens are well informed. Thus public, and not private, control of the media is a necessity. However, the corporate media system, dominated by well-connected elite mega-conglomerates, is actually the type of hyper-commercial oligopoly that is structurally unable (and unwilling) to give the masses true democratic choices and knowledge. McChesney's theories into how this has damaged the political health of the American people are obvious and depressing.<br />McChesney is also an outstanding political scientist, as he competently analyzes all sides of communications politics, from America's long-standing democratic traditions to our current ruinous domination by neoliberalism (economics) and neoconservatism (politics). One of this book's most fascinating chapters analyzes the highly troublesome hijacking of the First Amendment by the media conglomerates. Note that this particular book was published in 1999, so the chapter on the possibilities of the internet for democratic communications has become outdated (though McChesney's cynical attitude toward those possibilities has sadly become true). However, the underlying strength of McChesney's work is his focus on the structural issues behind the modern media and their very worrisome effects on public knowledge and democracy. Note that the &quot;structuralist&quot; arguments make up a portion of this volume, but have since been expanded in a hugely illuminating way in McChesney's exceptional 2004 release &quot;The Problem of the Media.&quot; [~doomsdayer520~]up a portion of this volume, but have since been expanded in a hugely illuminating way in McChesney's exceptional 2004 release &quot;The Problem of the Media.&quot; [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-07-19
586693:US	52697458	R2ZWIVQ8LU3213	158648138X	14000679	Pipe Dreams: Greed, Ego, and the Death of Enron	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Uber-Execucrats Get Stomped	Out of many books available on the Enron travesty, this one probably offers the most bang for the buck with its fast-moving and incredibly informative structure. Bryce has sufficient skills as an investigative journalist and provides a healthy mix of history, finance, and politics, allowing the general reader to understand what happened with that ridiculous corporate house of cards at Enron. Bryce's main theory is that the company was done in by a lack of hard cash, as just about all of its revenues were long-term contractual deals in which cash would actually come in slowly and periodically, although the \\"revenues\\" could be claimed immediately through preposterous over-use of \\"mark-to-market\\" accounting. Meanwhile, greedy executives who set up such deals were paid millions in hard cash bonuses immediately, long before a single cent of actual cash was made for the company. This in turn led to preposterous deal-making shenanigans that were little more than schemes to cook the books and claim profits, such as a bizarre web of tax havens and false subsidiaries set up by the crookedest executive of all, Andy Fastow.<br />Bryce's cash-centric theories on the Enron downfall are open to scrutiny by financial experts, and could possibly be shot down, but that doesn't affect the quality of the book's condemnation of the Enron executives and the suffering they caused for employees and investors. Bryce has a wonderfully biting and sarcastic writing style that leads to some unexpected chuckles, with quips like \\"there's no sex in laying pipe,\\" \\"Texas-sized sphincter,\\" and my personal favorite \\"uber-execucrat\\" (referring in particular to Enron's purchased statesman Henry Kissinger). Bryce should probably take some heat for his treatment of the women in Enron's upper ranks who may have gotten to the top by less-than-wholesome means, especially Rebecca Mark, who nevertheless blew away a few billion dollars. Bryce is generally harsh in his portrayals of all the guilty executives - from the unscrupulous Fastow and the self-worshipping Jeff Skilling to the utterly incompetent Ken Lay. But these greedy plutocrats, who pocketed tens of millions for their personal fortunes while ruining the lives of thousands of employees and sticking investors with billions in losses, deserve harsh treatment. That's just the beginning of the punishment they deserve. (...)rom the unscrupulous Fastow and the self-worshipping Jeff Skilling to the utterly incompetent Ken Lay. But these greedy plutocrats, who pocketed tens of millions for their personal fortunes while ruining the lives of thousands of employees and sticking investors with billions in losses, deserve harsh treatment. That's just the beginning of the punishment they deserve. (...)	2004-07-16
591970:US	52697458	RTVWULWYR4EET	1401352138	661286289	Fanatics & Fools: The Game Plan for Winning Back America	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Swinging in All Directions	Yes, this is another book of political complaints and recommendations that has been written specifically for the election year market. As usual, most reviews will be based on each reader's personal agreement with Arianna Huffington's personal politics. There is nothing inherently wrong with that, and I'm probably about to do the same thing myself. So does this politicized tirade have any advantages over the avalanche of others that are currently available, from pundits of all political stripes and intelligence levels? Yes, some very specific advantages. Most importantly, Huffington positions herself as a &quot;Progressive,&quot; leading to useful insights from outside the present two-party system.<br />What's unique about this book is that Huffington usually (though not always) succeeds in saving us from yet another partisan whinefest, and she has plenty of vitriol for everyone. Here we have not the usual left vs. right arguments, but down-to-Earth insights for the mass public vs. the privileged few. The &quot;Fanatics&quot; of the book's title are the elite establishment Republicans that Huffington used to party with, especially the current administration, who by relentlessly controlling social thought, have miraculously convinced the public that they actually represent regular people rather than just the mega-rich and corporate campaign contributors. Meanwhile the &quot;Fools&quot; of the title are the Democrats that Huffington now supports in principle, but are too wishy-washy to be anything other than watered-down Republicans.<br />Great column-sized vignettes outlining the sheer ridiculousness of the Bush Administration's policies make up about three quarters of the book, with Huffington's outstanding insights into the severe hypocrisy and lying involved, plus the real-world consequences. However, the tail end of the book is problematic as Huffington outlines what the Democrats can do to fix the situation. Her recommendations are correct and aligned with the great strengths of both the Democrats and the American people. However, her writing on this subject disregards short-term political realities and tends toward the idealism of a wishful, though certainly good, speechwriter - which appears to be Huffington's next career goal. [~doomsdayer520~]reat strengths of both the Democrats and the American people. However, her writing on this subject disregards short-term political realities and tends toward the idealism of a wishful, though certainly good, speechwriter - which appears to be Huffington's next career goal. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-07-13
594299:US	52697458	R1ERL1Q8BCQP9A	0803266278	302991081	Miles from Nowhere: Tales from America's Contemporary Frontier	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Deepinaharta...	Here Dayton Duncan takes us on a fascinating tour of counties in several Western states that have fewer than two people per square mile - under which communities are considered &quot;virtually uninhabited,&quot; at least in terms of standard sociological expectations. In addition to descriptions of jaw-dropping emptiness that people from more populated areas would find either uplifting or terrifying, Duncan provides many engaging stories of the real people toughing it out in these areas in which few are hardy enough to live. Examples are fractured politics among the Navajo in Utah; victims of nuclear testing in Central Nevada; an elderly woman living alone in Montana without modern conveniences dozens of miles form the nearest road; and the compelling story of the last few Seminole Negroes - descended from escaped slaves who mixed with Florida Indians and eventually ended up in West Texas. Included are great examinations of the cyclical boom-and-bust economics and strange politics confronting these lonely places, as they are alternately overlooked, romanticized, dumped on, and fought over by know-it-alls from far away. (On the other hand, Duncan also examines the irony in how such people often despise government interference, even though their existence would likely be impossible without Federal subsidies.) Duncan shows that these under-populated regions are still home to hardy and interesting people who continue to fulfill the American ideal of breaking off from the rat race and making it on one's own. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-07-11
595715:US	52697458	RLMDQ6GU768MQ	0375705457	931553433	Camp Concentration: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	From Genius to Madness	This novel is not as chilling as its reputation suggests, but it is a pretty thought-provoking look into the nature of genius. Here, the standard evil government/corporate conspirators have created a drug that increases intelligence and is testing it on prisoners. However, the drug has been developed from a virus that causes venereal disease, and thus behaves in that fashion. So genius has become contagious and then leads to an awful death. In a rather refreshing way, Disch avoids dwelling too much on the doomsday scenario inherent in the story, and instead ruminates on the fine line between genius and madness, or between knowledge and death. This is especially true for the narrator Sacchetti, a writer who has been subjected to the drug testing and soon finds that genius isn't all it's cracked up to be. These are useful deep thoughts for the reader, except for some of Disch's methods of putting them across - especially through horrifically long-winded speeches by the characters, which are way beyond the scope of believable dialogue. This in turn makes some of the characters implausible in themselves, especially an unethical bureaucrat named Skilliman. There is also a little nastiness in Disch's writing style, especially toward the book's token female and black characters. However, there is a marvelous twist at the end of the story that saves human genius from such a cruel death, if not necessarily madness. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-07-10
597523:US	52697458	R1JGG6XF8UC9IS	0807061875	200820231	The New Media Monopoly: A Completely Revised and Updated Edition With Seven New Chapters	Books	4	77	84	N	N	Critical but Uneven Manifesto on the Corporate Media	This is the newly updated version of Bagdikian's classic tome *The Media Monopoly* which first appeared in 1983 and was prescient enough to reach six editions by 2000. While dismissed as alarmism, with each edition of the book the problem of corporate media consolidation became worse, and now we are down to just five mega-conglomerates controlling almost all media content, and subsequently most political and social thought among the American public. Bagdikian is an expert commentator on the effects this has on popular democracy and social justice, and the problem has become so bad that it became necessary to create a completely revised text, rather than just a &quot;new&quot; edition of the old book with some tacked-on updates.<br />This powerful manifesto by Bagdikian sometimes suffers from a lack of focus. One frequent weakness is his tendency to opinionate on the social issues he uses as examples of poor mainstream media coverage. Examples include homelessness and smoking, in which Bagdikian forgets his analysis of media control issues and embarks on long expostulations of his own personal politics. A more general issue is his tendency to drift into political science as applied to modern corporate conservatism and crony capitalism. These are subjects in which Bagdikian is certainly proficient, and they are the root causes of the horrific state of American media. However, Bagdikian frequently drifts from useful media analysis to occasionally cranky political tirades that detract from the focus and power of the book's main points.<br />And even though this is a completely new edition, much of the text has still been copied verbatim from the old versions of the original book, leading to odd appearances of stories and examples from the 1960s and 70s, some of which have little modern relevance. The new chapter on the internet gives the impression that Bagdikian is barely familiar with that realm, as he gives remedial introductions to concepts that most of us are long familiar with. Other writers and analysts have now taken the issue of corporate media control and produced outstanding treatises that surpass Bagdikian's groundbreaking work (I especially recommend Robert W. McChesney). However, Bagdikian is still the originator and when he's focused, his insights into the social and political damage wrought by our corporate media are still powerful and prescient. [~doomsdayer520~]familiar with. Other writers and analysts have now taken the issue of corporate media control and produced outstanding treatises that surpass Bagdikian's groundbreaking work (I especially recommend Robert W. McChesney). However, Bagdikian is still the originator and when he's focused, his insights into the social and political damage wrought by our corporate media are still powerful and prescient. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-07-09
600671:US	52697458	R1E73Y5CC5PH98	0345397673	106893307	Antrax (The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Fantasy by Numbers	First of all, this installment from Terry Brooks does have a few unique features, such as a sentient city-sized computer built by a lost civilization, horrifying half-human cyborg killing machines, and somewhat intriguing themes on technology and knowledge. But otherwise, you have to wonder if Brooks keeps cranking out new volumes simply by following a manual called &quot;How to Write a Fantasy Novel.&quot; He may have even written that manual himself, as he's deservedly a popular and famous master of the genre. But once again there is little new or unexpected here. Consider the following rules of thumb from the typical fantasy writer's manual.<br />Build the story around a journey or quest to find some enchanted items like magic stones. Speaking of magic, throw that word around often but don't worry about describing it in too much detail. Add some other magic items, such as swords, that give power to those who know how to use them, but peril to others without that special inner strength. Give the people and places vaguely Celtic or Gothic names like Quentin Leah or Ryer Ord Star or Castledown. Add a bunch of elves and dwarves, and maybe a druid for good measure. Have the characters converse copiously about honor and courage and loyalty, preferably right in the middle of dangerous chases or battles. Show the good guys wracked with fear and indecision, only to dramatically realize their potential heroism in inspirational ways. Make your bad guys unquestionably evil monsters of alien races. And finally, write in the trilogy format, so instead of one large but focused book, you can crank out three inconclusive medium-sized books.<br />Sound familiar? Fantasy writers have done all this a gazillion times. So has Terry Brooks, and he does it again here without deviating from expectations. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-07-06
604892:US	52697458	R2RPCZI93OYDNI	0684833271	222335790	Public Opinion	Books	5	100	103	N	N	A Classic on Political and Social Thought	Way back in 1922, Walter Lippmann analyzed the nature of public opinion with many valuable insights that still hold true today. Note that most of the historical references Lippmann uses to illustrate his theories are from World War I and surrounding events, and some aspects of the political environment of the time are totally irrelevant today. However, this book rises above the confines of its time. Lippmann dealt in an interdisciplinary method that is extremely rare, if not structurally impossible, in today's academic environment. His basic treatise is in the realm of political science but ably brings in supporting theories and knowledge from psychology, sociology, communications, history, and logic. Lippmann's then-current style of writing is also nearly impossible to find in today's social science writing, with a flowing prose loaded with references to classic literature and frequent use of imagined characters and scenarios. Part VI offers a surprisingly no-holds-barred examination of the American political system that is refreshingly free of today's unyielding us-and them ideologies. This feat of the intellect, just slightly outdated in its specific examples but not in its underlying insights, is a powerhouse treatise on how public opinion is constructed and influenced by social trends, politics, and media. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-07-03
608161:US	52697458	R25SIS1L1J5VD6	031600023X	827119224	Worse Than Watergate: The Secret Presidency of George W. Bush	Books	4	20	34	N	N	A Harsh but Necessary Polemic	If John Dean thinks we should all be alarmed by the Bush administration's ethics, then that's really saying something. He was exposed to the worst excesses of the Watergate scandal, and makes it very clear that he is worried about the current administration's secrecy and deception. By his own admission, Dean has written this book as a quick and hard-hitting polemic, with personal opinions based on his own experience of sleazy government conduct. While there are sufficient references, this book offers little new when it comes to evidence of the administration's horrendous misuse of information regarding 9/11, the Iraq war, and national security policy (which much of the media and the public still refuse to accept, although contrary evidence is damning and voluminous). However, we do get the advantage of Dean's learned perspective. The greatest advantage of this book is that Dean has cracked the wall of secrecy around the mysterious machinations of Dick Cheney, who is revealed to be a bitter manipulator with a smug contempt for anyone who questions his goals and actions. Dean aptly points out that Cheney's troublesome ethics should be more worrisome than those of Bush. Also, Dean mostly avoids partisanship in his writing, usually letting facts speak for themselves and pointing out ethical lapses of both the left and the right, in order to bring Bush's actions into bold relief. While Dean frequently gets harsh and vindictive, and personal opinions slow down parts of the book, that doesn't mean his targets don't deserve it. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-07-01
608760:US	52697458	RM4Y5EIT6C7ZY	0374520968	111337252	The Crystal World	Books	2	10	23	N	N	Lost in a Crystal Haze	This brief novel offers a rather pointless speculative fiction take on Conrad's Heart of Darkness. A ridiculous and under-explained premise is used to prop up some equally under-explained ruminations from Ballard on the human condition and spirituality. Here the action takes place in an African jungle that is becoming crystallized, as all objects slowly become encrusted with luminous jewels. Ballard doesn't explain how this process works except for some weak references to the &quot;crystallized&quot; time and space aspects of relativity. This implausible premise leads to curious changes in the people who also find themselves crystallized, with some sort of inner peace and spiritual fulfillment being found in the process, though Ballard leaves this aspect of the story anemic as well, other than some flimsy philosophical ramblings. Meanwhile, the action of the story mostly involves a pointless chase sequence connected to a blood feud between two shallow supporting characters, which is never resolved within the story. Add to all of this the book's outdated colonialist conceptions of the third world and its inhabitants, and the weak premise and theme of this novel retreat further into the crystal haze. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-06-30
610246:US	52697458	R2WXDQLYPHHOG8	1888952911	862139432	Addams Chronicles: An Altogether Ooky Look at the Addams Family	Books	4	15	20	N	N	Ooky Is Right	Will we ever again see a TV show as full of nonconformity, deep dark humor, and head-scratching eccentricity as the Addams Family? I doubt it. This book is a treasure trove of trivia and collector's info for Addams geeks worldwide. Stephen Cox is as knowledgeable an enthusiast as you could hope for, though his writing could use some work. That's usually not a problem in a fun trivia book like this, though when it comes to cultural analysis he does get in over his head sometimes. Examples are his weak attempts to compare the show to the French playwright Moliere, or to explain the deep cultural significance of Gomez's love for cigars. But otherwise, you'll learn some great Addams TV tidbits here, like who played Thing (Ted Cassidy, better known for playing Lurch), and who did Cousin Itt's voice (soundman Tony Magro). You also may not have known that the pig who played Pugsley's frighteningly alive piggy bank also played Arnold on Green Acres. The only real problem with this book is the very quick and rather uninformative biographies of the stars. With the exception of Jackie Coogan (Uncle Fester), most of the actors get bios that are only two or three pages long. But in the end, I'm especially happy to learn that I'm not the only one who thinks that Carolyn Jones as Morticia was quite sexy, rather than creepy. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-06-29
612418:US	52697458	R82QCMBBX935D	1400050669	951260070	The Lies of George W. Bush: Mastering the Politics of Deception	Books	3	37	47	N	N	A Liar, and That's No Lie	Sure all politicians lie, and David Corn does not write this book with the presumption that George W. Bush is the only president who ever stretched the truth. What matters here is that Bush does so to often ridiculous proportions, with sometimes drastic effects on the well-being of the nation. Corn describes how Bush and the members of his administration have churned out wave upon wave of untruths concerning everything from tax cuts to environmental policy to (most importantly) the aftermath of 9/11 and the war on terror. Even when the Bushies get caught in a lie, such as when reports of Saddam Hussein buying uranium from Niger turned out to be 100% false, they keep the lie alive and steadfastly refuse to face the truth, and often brand the truth-tellers as liars themselves and even traitors. I do find Corn's writing to be somewhat partisan, but not to the extent that the book loses its usefulness, because the sheer volume and magnitude of Bush's dissemination speaks for itself. In a mostly unassuming fashion, Corn uses simple but effective logical reasoning and analytical deduction to shed light on the inconsistencies in Bush's statements.<br />The problem here though, is that the book becomes a rather repetitive list of lies and misrepresentations that only gives a superficial analysis of the true issues behind all this presidential lying. The final chapter, in which such an analysis is attempted, is not really convincing as Corn merely gives a rather thin philosophical theory on why the media hasn't dealt with the lies more deeply. But he mostly avoids questions of why the public accepts such political lies when contrary evidence is so easy to obtain, and why America does not become outraged by dissemination that could be debunked very easily when one simply looks at the facts logically. And what's especially missing from this book are any ruminations on whether this administration knows or cares about how their lies, usually used in the pursuit of immediate and self-serving political goals, are likely to inflict long-term damage on the safety and security of America. [~doomsdayer520~]self-serving political goals, are likely to inflict long-term damage on the safety and security of America. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-06-28
616872:US	52697458	R2QWQHY85QYFOF	1857988361	695981491	Stand on Zanzibar	Books	4	39	44	N	N	An Eternal Instant	While some aspects of this novel are dated and a bit annoying, John Brunner delivered an eerily prescient and haunting epic on the human condition back in 1968. This is mostly thought of as a story about overpopulation, but that is actually just a background setting that weighs down upon the bizarre near-future society Brunner has created. Social pressures of population have led to twisted morals and ethics. Discrimination and xenophobia have been mechanized with eugenics legislation, people have become over-reliant on the cold logic of supercomputers rather than human reasoning, corporations are buying and controlling entire nations, and crime, terrorism, and social sabotage have become endemic. Back in 1968 these may have seemed like creative aspects of Brunner's imagination, but they are becoming disturbingly familiar over the intervening decades. Brunner's writing style here can be a real trip too, with a montage of styles incorporating quick cuts between the viewpoints of different characters, along with constructed snippets resembling newspaper reports, government documents, advertisements, and even folktales from Brunner's imaginary world. This style of writing is becoming rather dated, and the book gets off to a slow start as you try to digest the writing methods. Also, the ending is a bit anti-climactic with the long and extensive build-up fizzling out into an off-screen denouement. But in the end this novel has the power to implant rather disturbing thoughts in the back of your mind about the near-future course of humanity. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-06-24
621158:US	52697458	R29JXOBRPDSJAR	0275948722	508770148	Moral Reasoning for Journalists: Cases and Commentary	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Useful Primer on Ethical Dilemmas in Journalism	This is an extremely well written collection of essays and case studies outlining the ethical issues behind journalism, which can be useful to both practicing journalists and media watchdogs. The book starts by dividing journalistic ethics into political, philosophical, and economic categories, in addition to issues of objectivity and privacy. This is followed by real-life case studies in which reporters and editors had to make tough ethical decisions regarding everything from crime to suicide, AIDS to car accidents, and political scandals to war reporting. The most refreshing aspect of this book is its insistence that none of these ethical crises have clear cut-and-dried answers, and that the process of examination and decision making in the face of such dilemmas is most important, while much can be learned from the experiences of the real-life journalists profiled here. This book impressively covers these very difficult questions. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-06-21
622508:US	52697458	R3G0IRXS34ZGPX	0275951537	694433333	The Journalist's Moral Compass: Basic Principles	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Essential Philosophy for Journalists and Media Watchdogs	This is a unique collection of writings and book excerpts providing a philosophical and ethical background for anyone interested in the ethics of journalism or the media system. These go as far back as Plato in ancient times, to the medieval musings on free speech by John Milton and Francis Bacon, which in turn started the press freedom concepts later brought to fruition by the likes of John Locke and &quot;Cato,&quot; which are all presented here. The book proceeds to more modern examinations of the ethics and issues behind the press, including powerful submissions by media watchdogs such as Ben Bagdikian and A.J. Liebling. The book ends on a strong note with the prophetic but problematic findings of the 1947 Hutchings Commission and the rebuttal by John C. Merrill, which are strongly leftist and rightist respectively, and wrap up the modern realms of thought from all sides of the matter. The only problem with this volume is that some of the writings have been fragmented and edited due to space concerns, making some submissions difficult to follow (such as the essay by Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis). In the case of book excerpts such as these, the editors should have considered a more intensive review-style description of each book's main points. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-06-20
623087:US	52697458	RM2QU1HKZ66RR	0060510862	223407615	Forever War, The	Books	2	32	41	N	N	Cranky Writing, Clumsy Message	If this is supposed to be a classic of military sci-fi, that doesn't say much for the genre. The basic premise of this novel is a very good one, informed by Haldeman's direct experiences in Vietnam. Here, humans are fighting a thousand-year war with an alien enemy whose motivations, whereabouts, and very identity are mostly unknown. An overbearing military establishment mechanically brainwashes unwilling soldiers to demonize and hate the enemy. The war itself escalates due to a lack of cultural understanding and communication. Of course these are metaphors for Vietnam, and they surely had power back when Haldeman wrote the book in the immediate aftermath of the war. The one good gimmick here is the relativistic time dilation experienced by the army's travel across the galaxy. They fight in campaigns that seem short to them, but then find that hundreds of years have elapsed at home. The soldiers are unable to adapt to the greatly changed Earth society when they return home, and end up back in combat, watching thousands of Earth years go by. Another metaphor for the travails of the soldier in Nam.<br />But that's the extent of this book's usefulness. Otherwise, Haldeman's style is often an unbearably cranky tirade of predictable cynicism toward the system, with boring battle scenes and clunky character developments taking up most of the book. The future societies constructed by Haldeman, which the veterans have trouble adjusting to, are absolutely ridiculous, featuring government-mandated marijuana distribution, global communitarianism, and forced same-sex lifestyles. And as a guy, not even I can imagine any self-respecting women being able to put up with the relentless sexism of this book, as the future female characters range from indentured military prostitutes to sexless disciplinarians. The potentially tremendous anti-war messages promised by this novel's premise are wasted on a cranky and ham-handed story. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-06-19
624954:US	52697458	R2KXJNJQBR2EZ7	0471265179	432255037	All the Shah's Men: An American Coup and the Roots of Middle East Terror	Books	4	51	70	N	N	Interesting History, but Some Specious Conclusions	This is a mostly intriguing account of a specific episode in history with some far-reaching lessons. In the early 1950's Iran was a developing democracy but was being oppressed by British oil interests. The newly-formed American CIA engineered a scheme to overthrow Iran's popularly elected Prime Minister Mossadegh and prop up the much less popular monarchy of the Shah. Here Kinzer describes the intrigue and international political shenanigans that led to the coup, which was fueled by anti-Communist paranoia based on Mossadegh's nationalist (but only tangentially socialist) ambitions. This was the CIA's first dirty tricks campaign to destabilize a foreign government, and Kinzer ably points out the irony in how the US overthrew a democracy and installed a totalitarian regime, in order to basically protect Western corporate profits. Kinzer also outlines the very real ramifications this all had decades down the road in the form of radical Islamic fundamentalism in Iran and fractured international relations to this day.<br />However, some of Kinzer's conclusions are reaching way too far. The book's subtitle confirming &quot;the Roots of Middle East Terror&quot; appears like a ploy to sell books in the aftermath of 9/11, as his attempt to directly connect the 1953 coup in Iran to specific modern acts of terrorism and hatred toward America is not completely logical. For one, he has completely disregarded the continuous Israeli/Palestinian saga. Kinzer's hero worship of Mossadegh and neglect of all other Iranian interests of the period (the Shah barely registers as a character, for example) is also problematic in its one-sidedness. But if you disregard some of the specious conclusions, Kinzer's story is an interesting example of the far-reaching effects of political dirty tricks and unintended consequences on America's relations with the developing world. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-06-18
627800:US	52697458	R2WIQV7L4V61UL	0380014033	772010642	Lord of Light	Books	3	9	25	N	N	Psychedelicized Gita	Sorry but I just can't quite jump on the bandwagon behind this novel. I know I shouldn't be second-guessing a &quot;classic&quot; - and this book does deserve this consideration because Zelazny was a truly visionary writer and the setting and characterizations of this book are very unique. However, the problem here is a style of writing and plot development that is very much a product of its time, and is not really that different from much of what was being cranked out by the sci-fi intelligentsia of the late 60's. Here style has taken on a little too much importance. Because of this, it is difficult to decipher what this novel is really about through the reading of it, unless you already know beforehand - through the reviews of those who have read it many times, or the publishers' descriptions which become more like clarifications than summaries.<br />The true plot of this novel is certainly what you've read about - human colonists on an alien world have made use of advanced technology to give themselves godlike powers, have created a society based on Hindu mythology, and the new &quot;gods&quot; have oppressed both their fellow humans and the world's original inhabitants. Religion, godliness, and life itself have been reduced to technological determinism and have also been politicized and bureaucratized. This leads to many possible insights into these issues in our modern world. Unfortunately, these fantastic and creative plot elements are not spelled out adequately for the reader, instead being trickled out only in passing, usually through the conversations of the new demigods, who speak either in hip small talk or gigantic theological speechifying. The plot elements are consequently fighting for air beneath a story that is mostly action and movement, with repetitive battle scenes that I suspect were inspired by the scriptural tomes of the East (which Zelazny was surely familiar with, to his credit). This neglect of plot development and explanation, which must be implausibly inferred by the reader, makes this novel less readable than it is awesomely creative. [~doomsdayer520~]e implausibly inferred by the reader, makes this novel less readable than it is awesomely creative. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-06-16
631261:US	52697458	R3E70K8R3R8W14	1578051096	36557091	Strategic Ignorance: Why the Bush Administration Is Recklessly Destroying a Century of Environmental Progress	Books	5	5	6	N	N	True Americans Hate Nature	There are plenty of recent books exposing the ethical crises of the Bush administration. This one by Pope and Rauber focuses on the Bush environmental record, and you shouldn't be surprised that there is enough on that subject to fill an entire book. Here we find that the modern neoconservative anti-environmentalism is not just an offshoot of the administration's megalomania for corporate profiteering and campaign contributions, but also the result of unyielding and extremist ideology. This hard conservatism, cloaked under dishonest claims of compassion and populism, indicates a sheer hatred for nature by our current leaders that would be insulting if it wasn't so worrisome for our national heritage.<br />Pope and Rauber show convincingly that corporate cronyism has given us anemic enforcement of existing regulations, at the whim of campaign contributors, as well as an across-the-board assault on environmental protections of any kind and a complete contempt for the interests of the American public. Pope and Rauber then examine the hard-right ideology of Bush and his neoconservative pals, which has led to some downright absurd actions against the environment. These include actually trying to increase the trade in endangered species (which would have miniscule impact on the American economy, but is a triumph of ideology over common sense), plus ordering the US military to stop its voluntary efforts toward environmental protection, or cracking down on states who are trying to enforce protections stronger than those of the Feds (this from an administration concerned about states' rights).<br />Pope and Rauber carry out a very strong investigation here, backed up solidly by journalistic sources and interviews. The investigation also gives the reader a few bonuses, like some detective work into Dick Cheney's secret energy task force, and a debunking of many of the claims for drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. I must complain a bit about the rather thin and idealistic \\"solutions\\" chapter that wraps up the investigation, but the appendix that closes the book, giving a chronology of the administration's assault on environmental law and policy, is truly disturbing in its sheer size and frequency. Pope and Rauber find that our administration, in its attempts to discredit all opposing realms of political thought, is dealing in an absurd hatred of nature that is completely lacking in common sense, not to mention any concern for the wishes of the people or the health of humanity.(...)idealistic \\"solutions\\" chapter that wraps up the investigation, but the appendix that closes the book, giving a chronology of the administration's assault on environmental law and policy, is truly disturbing in its sheer size and frequency. Pope and Rauber find that our administration, in its attempts to discredit all opposing realms of political thought, is dealing in an absurd hatred of nature that is completely lacking in common sense, not to mention any concern for the wishes of the people or the health of humanity.(...)	2004-06-13
634737:US	52697458	RK5FI2PNAJJ6E	1583671056	947232553	The Problem of the Media: U.S. Communication Politics in the Twenty-First Century	Books	5	90	101	N	N	Hypercommercial Antimarkets Revealed	Expect this book to get a wave of one-star liberal-bashing reactionary reviews once the neoconservatives learn that it exists. That's because their entire philosophy, especially concerning the media, is decisively shot down in this powerful manifesto. McChesney's specialty is media ownership patterns and their effects on popular democracy. Here we find that the modern push for deregulation in media industries is leading to a real crisis for democracy in America - in effect there really is a &quot;problem of the media.&quot; While megacorporations wrap their campaign for unlimited profits in rhetoric about free speech, the First Amendment, and giving the people what they want, McChesney finds that all of these claims are false and usually downright dishonest.<br />The current wave of media deregulation has been greased by big media money in the halls of power, and influence peddling among a few power players (including FCC chairman Michael Powell, whom McChesney unapologetically cuts down to size). The common people are left out of the loop, with a loss of media coverage toward local and dissenting viewpoints, and more and more lowest-common denominator media content. Despite the rhetoric about free trade and capitalism, today's media is far from competitive and equitable. Instead it's a hyper-commercial oligarchy of power consolidation and political power grabbing, and McChesney provides plenty of evidence and eloquent arguments about these trends and the damage they are doing to popular democracy.<br />Certain parts of this book also serve as a monumentally informative primer on modern neoconservative politics, with that movement's almost total contempt for the public interest and slavish kowtowing to corporate bigwigs. That makes this book essential for media watchdogs, plus more general political observers who can then learn more about media trends as a specific issue. A bonus is Chapter 3 in which McChesney brutally deconstructs the standard right-wing claims of &quot;liberal bias&quot; in the media, finding that this is merely an attempt by conservatives to monopolize social thought, in addition to income and political power. This book's final chapter presents a partial happy ending in documenting the vast popular uprising that is now confronting the media giants and their pocketed politicians. The people are up for a long fight against media money and power, but all those who read this outstanding treatise from McChesney will certainly have the knowledge necessary for true democratic progress. [~doomsdayer520~]f &quot;liberal bias&quot; in the media, finding that this is merely an attempt by conservatives to monopolize social thought, in addition to income and political power. This book's final chapter presents a partial happy ending in documenting the vast popular uprising that is now confronting the media giants and their pocketed politicians. The people are up for a long fight against media money and power, but all those who read this outstanding treatise from McChesney will certainly have the knowledge necessary for true democratic progress. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-06-10
636015:US	52697458	R2TJ8YHJSL73BD	0761129790	517932958	Non Campus Mentis	Books	3	4	11	N	N	History For and By Dummies	This book is good for many laughs, and also makes you think a little about some deeper issues. Of course here the point is humor, as Henriksson compiles all types of errors, malapropisms, and class-clownisms from real students in college-level history classes. Some are downright hysterical, from over-reliance on spell checking software to poor uses of humor to outright ignorance by the students. But should Henriksson, a college professor, place all the blame for the poor performance of students, represented here, on their previous education? Perhaps his classes and those of his colleagues, from which the samples here were gleaned, are so confusing or uninteresting for students that they lead to the ridiculousness herein? In many of these snippets I see signs of students being unable to integrate the names and dates that they've been spoon-fed into a coherent whole, which can be considered a systemic educational problem which won't be helped by making fun of students for being so wrong. But in the end, congrats to Hendriksson and his publishers for being able to sell this thin pamphlet of a book for $12.95. Now that has educational value. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-06-09
643070:US	52697458	R2ZFBLUIGSR7TR	0761919783	220953807	The Content Analysis Guidebook	Books	2	28	42	N	N	Over-Explaining Over-Analysis	Neuendorf has become a leader in her chosen field, content analysis, and that's worthy of respect. Here she has created what is probably the most practical and current guidebook for students and researchers undertaking this type of research methodology. However, this is mostly academic over-explanation from a practitioner who apparently yearns for their methods to be taken seriously by other professors in more structured fields. Hence, relatively straightforward methods of collecting data and writing are transformed into an over-elaborated &quot;science&quot; with strenuous categorizations and hierarchies of methodology.<br />There is merit to Neuendorf's claims that content analysis is more complicated than many people think. But much of this book's bulk is not dedicated to exploring the intricacies of the discipline, because such intricacy mostly doesn't exist. Instead, much space is given over to statistics, which is not part of the discipline but a tool to use with it (though I will admit that this book accidentally offers a useful refresher on basic stats). Then there is the fatuous academic writing, in which one is required to pile on fleeting examples of obscure dissertations in which the various methods may have been used, and to trot out corroborating quotes every time any sort of informative statement is made. For example, in introducing the concept of measurement, Neuendorf took the time to track down the following gem of a quote by another academic from 1951: &quot;Measurement is the assignment of numerals to objects or events according to rules.&quot; Wow, I wouldn't have believed something so obvious if Neuendorf had simply said it herself. Though this does offer her the opportunity to add the volume in which that quote originated to this book's overflowing 35-page bibliography, proving once again that in academia, it's less important to say something yourself than to find a few hundred people who said something similar in the past.<br />This book was apparently created for an academic audience of a few professors who would have then congratulated Neuendorf for properly following the accepted methods, which is more important than making insightful points to the interested student or general reader. Admittedly, this book will be useful as a reference work that you can consult periodically for specific tidbits on research methodology. But that's only if you need to write something that will only be worthwhile for your professor, instead of yourself or anyone that you hope to truly enlighten with your research. [~doomsdayer520~]apparently created for an academic audience of a few professors who would have then congratulated Neuendorf for properly following the accepted methods, which is more important than making insightful points to the interested student or general reader. Admittedly, this book will be useful as a reference work that you can consult periodically for specific tidbits on research methodology. But that's only if you need to write something that will only be worthwhile for your professor, instead of yourself or anyone that you hope to truly enlighten with your research. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-06-04
644565:US	52697458	R4TUTWSMCFPRQ	0374236755	433092550	Power to the People: How the Coming Energy Revolution Will Transform an Industry, Change Our Lives, and Maybe Even Save the Planet	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Sure Is Sunny In Here	For an overview of up-and-coming sources of energy for the new millennium you can't do much better than this book, but beware of its very optimistic and not always realistic examinations of the politics and economics of energy. As a policy expert, Vaitheeswaran certainly has keen insights into what is going on in energy today, from actual vs. perceived shortages in fossil fuels to the latest cutting-edge research into new technologies such as fuel cells. Here you will get great insights into how the current market works, with some in-depth debunking of popular assumptions concerning issues like the California crisis in 2000-01, or the true political machinations and motivations of OPEC. Vaitheeswaran ably documents how humans will continue to have access to reliable energy, in whatever form, and that world society is hardly on the brink of a major catastrophic shortage.<br />However, this book loses steam significantly when Vaitheeswaran starts to analyze the possible political and economic tools that will be necessary to keep the future energy market healthy. Basically, he is dangerously close to the dogma of the free market and free trade as the cure for all ills. Yes, as Americans we know that intelligently managed markets are essential. However, after fruitfully explaining how current energy markets are distorted by cronyism, tax breaks, subsidies, corporate welfare, and other inequitable political shenanigans, the possibility of such distortions is strangely missing from Vaitheeswaran's analyses of future trends. It's as if the free market, once allowed to roll, would suddenly create a perfect world devoid of human corruption, and not just in market-savvy America. This is the unrealistic message overall - a corrupt present shall be replaced by an unrealistic free market utopia around the world. And generally, in attempting to cover all sides of these issues from the point of view of everyone from radical environmentalists to fossil fuel plutocrats, Vaitheeswaran ultimately fails to land squarely in any camp, which saps the power from many of his conclusions. While much of this book is quite useful in describing exciting new technologies, sunny optimism often blinds the reader from dirtier realities. [~doomsdayer520~]n ultimately fails to land squarely in any camp, which saps the power from many of his conclusions. While much of this book is quite useful in describing exciting new technologies, sunny optimism often blinds the reader from dirtier realities. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-06-03
650571:US	52697458	R15BRMVMYE2B9X	0679767800	339858237	The Stars My Destination	Books	5	4	5	N	N	... is filthy death for us	Among the voluminous piles of predictable spaceships-and-aliens tomes of classic sci-fi, once in a while you'll find an off-kilter underground gem like this. Bester's bizarro novel from 1956 was way ahead of its time, at least in terms of sheer weirdness and cracked feats of the imagination. In this story, Bester has imagined a sci-fi future that is depressingly realistic - the miracles of interplanetary travel have been turned toward corporate profiteering, those who have learned teleportation and telepathy have used them for self-interested and criminal pursuits, and humans are still warring with themselves but now from different planets. This frantic universe and the frenetic story told here are being navigated by a quite strange character named Gully Foyle, whose relentless quest for personal revenge accidentally turns him into the nearly godlike figure that he narcissistically assumed himself to be. Gully's bizarre trips through Bester's strange universe will be matched only by the trippiness in your own brain, as you digest this story that was decades ahead of its time, if only for the very depths of its strangeness. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-05-29
652822:US	52697458	R29T4ZMLI2WDG9	1585422762	756890865	Weapons of Mass Deception: The Uses of Propaganda in Bush's War on Iraq	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Don't Believe the Hype	Since the earliest civilizations on Earth, leaders have utilized the strategy of war against a demonized outside enemy to distract the population from domestic issues. But in this new age of instant communications and saturation infotainment, a ruler really has to be on the ball to hoodwink a whole society. This book details the Bush administration's extensive use of public relations, propaganda, and misinformation to get the American public behind the &quot;war&quot; in Iraq. Experts in the art of PR may just see this endeavor by the administration as a brilliant masterpiece of advertising, false patriotism, and empty jingoism. That's one way of looking at it if you choose not to think about the hundreds of billions of dollars squandered, the deaths of untold civilians, the fat profits for Bush and Cheney's old boys network, and the failure to make any actual headway in reducing terrorism around the world.<br />Here Rampton and Stauber have made deft use of real news accounts and statements from the administration to uncover the trickery and lies that have become second nature from our leaders. Regardless of your political stance toward Saddam Hussein or the real necessity of war, you will probably be dismayed by how dumb your government has assumed you to be, and how they have been proven right by the behavior of many average Americans. The only problem with this book is that it is quite short and ends abruptly, with no comprehensive conclusions regarding some of the serious issues it raises. I suggest that a second edition of this book be released when the current situation in Iraq (apparently it's not a &quot;war&quot; anymore) really ends, if it ever does, because Rampton and Stauber may be able to provide insight into how more propaganda probably won't get us out of a situation that propaganda got us into. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-05-27
654698:US	52697458	R1PWXBZMSNM58B	0803279957	188392745	The Sokal Hoax: The Sham That Shook the Academy	Books	4	64	72	N	N	No Connection to Reality	If you're in a very specific crowd, the brouhaha covered here is a real riot. I am a current graduate student who went back to school after being out in the &quot;real world&quot; (i.e. business and industry), and have been subjected to the dense theory and nonsensical &quot;culture wars&quot; of the academy. I have found relatively few people in graduate education who have ever been out in the real world, where actual practical work is done. I was astonished to find that there are professors doing large research projects on the field I used to work in, because we rarely (if ever) saw these academic treatises, written by professors who have never worked in the field and assume they can effectively study it from a detached intellectual standpoint. But these guys don't seem to care if their writings never get even remotely close to the populations that they think they're helping, because in the university system it's publish or perish. It's better to have a few other professors tell you that you know what you're talking about, than to have any kind of effect on the lives of real people.<br />This kind of nonsense has been exposed by the Sokal hoax covered here, though in this case it's all within the academy. Sokal's fake paper, submitted to a trendy but gullible &quot;cultural studies&quot; journal, is an absolutely brilliant piece of parody in which he used a heap of big words, obtuse theory, and hip namedropping while saying absolutely nothing. This book presents Sokal's paper and then the defensive and whiny rebuttals of the journal's editors after they learned they were hoodwinked, followed by just about everything that was said in the international academic press about the whole affair. Unfortunately, this book really slows down as the academic commentaries become very repetitive, discussing the same aspects of the hoax again and again, while many of them devolve into the dense theoretical professor-speak that Sokal was trying to criticize in the first place. Also, in presenting never-ending arguments by defensive eggheads in the academy, we merely get a closed argument among people with no connection to the outside world whatsoever. The book fails to truly analyze the true issue behind this whole mess - the fact that real students from the real world are paying for an education made up of nonsensical theorizing about obtuse philosophical concepts that truly matter to nobody but a professor, who is trying to show off to another professor. This disconnection from reality in the modern university system is what has really been exposed by Sokal's hoax and the ensuing academic catfight. [~doomsdayer520~]lso, in presenting never-ending arguments by defensive eggheads in the academy, we merely get a closed argument among people with no connection to the outside world whatsoever. The book fails to truly analyze the true issue behind this whole mess - the fact that real students from the real world are paying for an education made up of nonsensical theorizing about obtuse philosophical concepts that truly matter to nobody but a professor, who is trying to show off to another professor. This disconnection from reality in the modern university system is what has really been exposed by Sokal's hoax and the ensuing academic catfight. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-05-25
660844:US	52697458	RXIOQ2OGHFQNG	0803292112	132903709	Crazy Horse: The Strange Man of the Oglalas (50th Anniversary Edition)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A Beautiful and Compelling Biography	This is a highly unique biography and is a well-deserved classic in the world of literature. Sandoz did not write the standard Native American story from the point of view of the outsider (that is, the white conquerors), but created a book that feels as if it was written by the Indians from their own world view. Sandoz had the great advantage, in the 1930s, of interviewing still-living oldtimers who really knew Crazy Horse, and her combination of first-hand Indian accounts and meticulously well-crafted prose makes for an extremely compelling story of the last years of Indian freedom. In fact, this is not so much a biography of Crazy Horse, but a much larger story of the Lakota (Sioux) people in which he is the central character. The book does not include much historical detail, as that would be the white man's method of writing, so for such information on late Sioux history you would have to look elsewhere (such as *Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee* by Dee Brown).<br />However, we do get a book full of beautiful and poetic prose such as &quot;there was a star with a long white tail to speak of good things,&quot; and consistent use of Indian terminology such as &quot;burning cup&quot; for whiskey or &quot;soldier chief&quot; for army officers. This style of writing does make the reading of this book stiff and long-winded in places, but Sandoz must be commended for her very unique and moving methods. In the end, Crazy Horse himself comes across as a troubled loner among his people, a bit manic-depressive but a strong leader and warrior, and he remains as dark and mysterious to us as he was to his friends and enemies. And as usual for Native American histories from this period, the end of the story gives us the depressing loss of the people's freedom and the noble but hopeless efforts of a great leader to save his people. Concerning the special 50th anniversary edition of the book, you can ignore the rather sycophantic introduction by Stephen B. Oates, but the stunning cover painting by Ed Lindlof is almost worth the price of admission alone. [~doomsdayer520~]over painting by Ed Lindlof is almost worth the price of admission alone. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-05-20
667471:US	52697458	R3MV1EIM42D425	0521529158	677213271	The Mass Media and the Dynamics of American Racial Attitudes	Books	2	8	14	N	N	Can't Get Out of the Poli-Sci Department	This book originated in Kellstedt's work as a political science graduate student. Since he's now a published professor, it looks like his efforts to impress his mentors have been successful. However, as a current graduate student myself, I am often perturbed by the departmentalization of knowledge into separate fields. In the social sciences especially, each field thinks of itself as the apotheosis of theoretical understanding, and sees other fields as little more than repositories of specific examples. Kellstedt and his advisors may honestly believe that he has come up with groundbreaking new findings on the media and racial attitudes, but that's only if you read nothing but academic journals in political science. Kellstedt does make some very good points here about American racial attitudes, but he fails to adequately carry out the study of media patterns that are inherent in his thesis.<br />The root of the problem here is that Kellstedt analyzes a phenomenon (media) that is outside of the field that he uses for theoretical support and corroborating evidence (political science). While examining media coverage of racial matters, Kellstedt uses only stories from Newsweek. Unfortunately his large number of stories from a very long time period only gives the illusion of variety. Any student in communications would flunk if he/she only analyzed one single media outlet after endeavoring to analyze coverage of any issue, much less a highly charged issue like race. Kellstedt explains that he chose Newsweek out of concerns for legitimacy of its stances and dependability of the data. Fair enough, but this does not guarantee that Newsweek provides a representative sample.<br />Even worse, Kellstedt takes the entire field of communications as a given, using it as merely a detached phenomenon that can support his political science theories. His attitude toward the field can be seen in statements on page 119 (hardcover) that the press holds a mirror to society and merely describes who and what we are, and simply reports reality rather than create it. Earlier he does a statistical analysis of his Newsweek samples and finds that the arrow of causality proves that mass opinion follows media coverage linearly (p. 91-92). This will be major news to anyone outside the poli-sci department. Any book with &quot;Mass Media&quot; in its title should at least attempt familiarity with theories of mass communications, which are as robust and varied as those in poli-sci. But other than an extremely simplistic focus on the framing of stories, Kellstedt is completely unaware of communications theories ranging from agenda setting to political economy to the propaganda model. These theories aren't necessarily foolproof themselves, but this endeavor requires Kellstedt to analyze them in-depth just like he does for poli-sci theories. As a result, this book is only half convincing. [~doomsdayer520~]cribes who and what we are, and simply reports reality rather than create it. Earlier he does a statistical analysis of his Newsweek samples and finds that the arrow of causality proves that mass opinion follows media coverage linearly (p. 91-92). This will be major news to anyone outside the poli-sci department. Any book with &quot;Mass Media&quot; in its title should at least attempt familiarity with theories of mass communications, which are as robust and varied as those in poli-sci. But other than an extremely simplistic focus on the framing of stories, Kellstedt is completely unaware of communications theories ranging from agenda setting to political economy to the propaganda model. These theories aren't necessarily foolproof themselves, but this endeavor requires Kellstedt to analyze them in-depth just like he does for poli-sci theories. As a result, this book is only half convincing. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-05-15
668946:US	52697458	R1CBN3LZTR4BCX	0275976394	713628306	America's Meltdown: The Lowest-Common-Denominator Society	Books	2	19	21	N	N	A Lowest-Common-Denominator Book	It is certainly true that American society is sinking into a dumbed-down, quick-fix, marketing-oriented society. Intelligence and community are being forced out in the drive to look out for number one and make as much money as possible. These are serious issues with potentially alarming effects on our society, culture, and mental health. But if you're looking for a well-rounded and substantial examination of these issues, give this book a wide berth. Here John Boghosian Arden spends 200 pages complaining about social trends he happens to find troubling, under the assumption that piling on mountains of examples actually results in an in-depth analysis of trends, and offers next to nothing in terms of solutions or things concerned people can do to make a change. In the end, this book becomes part of the &quot;lowest-common-denominator&quot; phenomenon that Arden keeps accusing everyone else of perpetuating.<br />Speaking of lowest-common-denominator, check out the low basic quality of this book. There are many typos and factual errors that are mostly minor, but also several whoppers like actress &quot;Candace Bergman&quot; or the &quot;Star War&quot; movie series. Talk about dumbed-down public discourse. Arden apparently knows little about the social culture he is incessantly criticizing, feeling the need to introduce the concept of &quot;windows&quot; on computer screens to us unenlightened masses, or claiming that nobody knew what the paparazzi was before the death of Princess Diana. Arden also has a rosy Nick-at-Nite view of past society, with the type of attitude toward the wholesomeness of the past, and the evils of the present, that is little more than cranky nostalgia. And after spending seventeen chapters on rapid-fire examples in various categories of America's supposed meltdown, Arden spits out the obligatory chapter on &quot;solutions&quot; which adds up to no more than pie-in-the-sky idealism, such as &quot;we need to own the responsibility for our own health&quot; and other thin pontifications. There is also much inconsistency in Arden's &quot;solutions&quot; in the final chapter, such as an endorsement for minimum-standards testing in public schools, although he spent an entire chapter earlier complaining about narrowly-focused educational standards. Serious issues like those introduced here demand a serious and in-depth analysis. This isn't it. [~doomsdayer520~]alth&quot; and other thin pontifications. There is also much inconsistency in Arden's &quot;solutions&quot; in the final chapter, such as an endorsement for minimum-standards testing in public schools, although he spent an entire chapter earlier complaining about narrowly-focused educational standards. Serious issues like those introduced here demand a serious and in-depth analysis. This isn't it. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-05-14
670098:US	52697458	R35EJD6B7P58K7	0060185406	901862594	Lonely Planets: The Natural Philosophy of Alien Life	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Abduct Me, Please	David Grinspoon is a prot&eacute;g&eacute; of Carl Sagan, and has quite ably taken it on himself to continue his mentor's quest for making science palatable to the masses. Grinspoon may have even beaten the master here, as he can ably combine science, culture, and religion without Sagan's Achilles Heels of condescension and strict anti-spirituality. In this fascinating book, Grinspoon takes us on a fantastic voyage of speculative thought mixed with real science concerning the possibilities of intelligent life in the universe. This is a true return to &quot;natural philosophy&quot; as Grinspoon is not afraid to tackle the larger spiritual and existential issues that are usually frowned upon by scientists.<br />After a pretty interesting history of belief in extraterrestrials, Grinspoon offers an excellent summary of all the branches of science that are involved with this new field of &quot;astrobiology,&quot; or the study of possible alien life. Comparative planetology, physics, and geology play a large role in determining how many worlds out there would be capable of supporting life (Jupiter's moon Europa is the current local favorite). From biology we find that we don't really know exactly what life is, and we should not necessarily expect aliens to be dependent on water and oxygen. The final parts of the book, dealing with religion, psychology, and sociology (including some debunking of ufology and other fads) show that we cannot expect aliens to be similar to us in any of those areas, and they may be so different from us culturally, mentally, and physically that we may not even recognize them as other intelligent life forms, especially when they are likely to be more advanced than us.<br />Grinspoon has taken great pains not to sound like a stiff scientist but like a regular guy who can rap with the masses, a mission that he sometimes takes a little too far. We get language like &quot;our punk little moon&quot; and &quot;you follow, G?&quot; as well as at least two footnotes mentioning pot smokers and an endless supply of cheesy jokes. Also, the tail end of the book slows down a bit with some rather drifty explorations on the meaning of humanity in the universe and how we would react to alien life. But in the long run, Grinspoon is a brilliant thinker on all matters of science and humanity, and he is a true natural philosopher rather than a mere scientist. As for those possible aliens, I beg them to come for a visit. It's getting boring around here. [~doomsdayer520~]mentioning pot smokers and an endless supply of cheesy jokes. Also, the tail end of the book slows down a bit with some rather drifty explorations on the meaning of humanity in the universe and how we would react to alien life. But in the long run, Grinspoon is a brilliant thinker on all matters of science and humanity, and he is a true natural philosopher rather than a mere scientist. As for those possible aliens, I beg them to come for a visit. It's getting boring around here. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-05-13
678761:US	52697458	R3QVSBD422H9U2	1557987912	769422014	Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association	Books	2	248	295	N	N	Unhelpful Guide about an Unenlightening Style	Like some of the other reviewers, I am in a program of advanced study in which APA is the \\"accepted\\" style of citation for scholarly research. As we can see, APA is an absolutely dreadful citation style, especially with its prohibition of footnotes, leading to incomprehensible paragraphs in which your prose is murdered by names and dates in parentheses. The lack of required page numbers in your citations also allows you, if you're so inclined, to transform your references into all sorts of unsupported speculation and conjecture, and no reader will be able to prove or disprove what you're saying. I realize that arguing about the merits of APA style is not the same as reviewing the merits of this book. But the weaknesses in the core citation style are so prevalent that it would be impossible to create a book of this nature with any sort of usefulness.<br />Now let's get to the trouble with this particular book. First, it is unnecessarily humungous, trying to beef up the very thin body of APA citation requirements (which by the way can be found for free all over the internet) with hugely unenlightening chapters on basic writing style and methods. Infinitely better guides on how to actually write and conduct research can be easily found elsewhere. Even when you do want to find instructions on the core requirements of APA citation style, this is an annoyingly difficult task in this atrociously organized and indexed book. A thin and under-compiled index sends you to hard-to-find section numbers rather than page numbers. And finally there is the practice of this book's publishers to promote a \\"new edition\\" which is merely the same as before with a couple of new entries, sold with a new cover and of course a new full price. In case you're wondering, about the only new information in this edition concerns how to reference websites and online publications. Once again, this info can be found for free on the internet, while you could also spend a pittance on a used copy of the supposedly \\"outdated\\" previous edition.<br />This book gets two stars because it is nominally useful (at least in theory) if you're stuck with it. But if you find yourself required to use the talent-crushing APA style in your attempts to write something of importance, first try to convince your mentors that APA is inherently anti-intellectual. Then find a way to get out of any requirements to buy this unhelpful book, and find the information on the internet instead. [~doomsdayer520~]supposedly \\"outdated\\" previous edition.<br />This book gets two stars because it is nominally useful (at least in theory) if you're stuck with it. But if you find yourself required to use the talent-crushing APA style in your attempts to write something of importance, first try to convince your mentors that APA is inherently anti-intellectual. Then find a way to get out of any requirements to buy this unhelpful book, and find the information on the internet instead. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-05-06
680871:US	52697458	R3TVL4ZO0OSPVM	0553379267	284019128	A Canticle for Leibowitz (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	117	142	N	N	Lucifer is Fallen	This novel from the 1950's is a deserved classic among the sci-fi intelligentsia. Maybe its laborious title has kept it from being noticed by the popular masses, but this book is a hidden gem for those looking to broaden their horizons. This is probably one of the earliest stories to speculate on a post-nuclear apocalypse, and here Walter Miller created one of the most imaginative and far-reaching examples of that motif. Later nuclear winter stories would get predictable and formulaic, but not this originator. In this masterpiece of storytelling, three ages of human development pass by over the course of 1800 years, but in the end we see that those who don't know history are doomed to repeat it. While it's a bit dated in places, this brilliant and disturbing novel will keep you thinking for a long time after you're done reading it.<br />In addition to its unique take on historical processes, this book is essentially about the pros and cons of organized religion. In Part 1, humanity is stuck in the middle of several centuries of dark ages after a nuclear war, and once again the Catholic Church (or what's left of it) holds sway over a fearful and unenlightened society. Among the few records of the pre-war world that have survived are some inconsequential notes and blueprints by a minor scientist called Leibowitz. The church has made Leibowitz a saint, and here Miller appears to be commenting on the reverence of organized religion toward matters of doubtful authenticity and importance. Is religious belief built upon weak foundations? In Part 2 humanity is entering a new renaissance of knowledge, with religion being unable to adjust to the new enlightenment. In Part 3, humanity has reached a new technical age, but society is again oppressed by nuclear paranoia and mutually assured destruction. Humanity is about to destroy itself once again in this 1800-year cycle. Miller then takes us on an examination of the strength and relevance of faith in the face of such suffering and destruction. However, for the entire 1800 years and more, the disciples of Leibowitz have kept faith and hope alive. So is organized religion the curse or savior of humanity? Walter Miller contemplates these issues with great lucidity in this lost classic. [~doomsdayer520~]and destruction. However, for the entire 1800 years and more, the disciples of Leibowitz have kept faith and hope alive. So is organized religion the curse or savior of humanity? Walter Miller contemplates these issues with great lucidity in this lost classic. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-05-04
692723:US	52697458	R3MQXXWXTTJLJD	1859842585	978801677	Whiteout: The CIA, Drugs and the Press	Books	3	34	42	N	N	Just Say No (to the CIA)	This book is a summary of horrific CIA shenanigans which can be of interest to government watchdogs and ethics buffs. In particular, Cockburn and St. Clair attempt to sum up the story of the CIA's long-term involvement in the drug trade, often in direct opposition to the efforts of the DEA or rhetoric from two-faced politicians. This is all extremely hard to dismiss, given the enormous volume of evidence presented here and elsewhere. The problem with this book is that it's just an extensive list with almost no analysis whatsoever, and mostly rehashes work that has been done by stronger investigative journalists. Among many examples, Chapter 1 is based almost entirely on \\"Dark Alliance\\" by Gary Webb; and Chapter 8 is very heavily indebted to \\"Acid Dreams\\" by Martin Lee and Bruce Schlain.<br />This type of summarization shows all the weaknesses of conspiracy theories, complete with inflammatory language and far-reaching accusations. Though the authors try very hard not to give this impression, they assume that by piling on huge amounts of specific events and examples that are correlated (but not necessarily causal in the supposed direction), they are proving the existence of a large conspiracy by the CIA, or at least a higher plan. Meanwhile, one-third of the book's supposed goal of implicating the press in unethical CIA behavior is almost totally missing, except for occasional potshots at particular sympathetic journalists. There is no systemic evidence given of media complicity even though, once again, convincing evidence of this can be found elsewhere.<br />In the end, after piling on huge mountains of evidence about CIA drug running around the world and throughout history, again summarized from other sources, Cockburn and St. Clair completely forget to delve into the obvious conclusion promised by their summarization. That would be how the CIA, under the guise of protecting American security, is actually in the business of ideology, installing conservative-friendly dictators in weak nations and financing those regimes in any way possible, including getting involved in the drug trade. This has caused all kinds of serious ethical lapses, cover-ups, government lies and misinformation, and suffering for millions of Americans. After reading this book, you'll wish that the authors had reached that obvious conclusion. [~doomsdayer520~]dly dictators in weak nations and financing those regimes in any way possible, including getting involved in the drug trade. This has caused all kinds of serious ethical lapses, cover-ups, government lies and misinformation, and suffering for millions of Americans. After reading this book, you'll wish that the authors had reached that obvious conclusion. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-04-25
696061:US	52697458	R341UCAD5ZOPD0	1850008140	71722491	Doing Qualitative Research: Circles Within Circles (Teachers' Library)	Books	1	2	13	N	N	Poor Instructions for Doing Poor Research	A writing and research guide for absolute beginners - better yet, students who don't know they're absolute beginners. If you're looking for poorly written instructions on how to do thin research and then write up a paper that will have no relevance to anyone but your teacher, then this guide is for you. Concerning the research methods covered here, this book is a great example of academics trying to add unnecessary legitimacy to simple methods, by using big words to describe common-sense concepts, and operationalizing the methods and grandly trying to turn them into science. In this case, the fields are cultural studies and ethnography, which were already fine when they were looked upon as illuminating field work, character sketches, and documentaries. This book makes the standard attempts (for academia) to turn these simple yet effective styles into sciences with multi-syllabic names and hierarchies of methodology, to gain respect from other more structured fields.<br />Then there is this book's atrocious writing. A variety of authors crank out a non-varied smorgasbord of self-aggrandizement about how \\"insightful\\" their research has been, with hugely unnecessary biographies about themselves and how exemplary they think their methods are. In an attempt to beef up the thin material, the editors have added wave upon wave of specific examples and questions from semi-anonymous \\"students,\\" which are so mind-numbingly repetitive and homogenous that they cease to be believable testimonials. Qualitative research is certainly an important field with its own strengths and methods that need to be mastered by anyone attempting to do the associated research. But you can do infinitely better than this book which fails to rise above the amateur level. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-04-22
697570:US	52697458	R3S7R4TDOKGTNI	1568023340	645540443	Controversies In Voting Behavior, 4th Edition	Books	3	6	14	N	N	More Informative than Controversial	This volume collects influential articles in political science, dealing with issues that might be rather contentious, if you happen to be student or professor in the field. &quot;Controversies&quot; is hardly an accurate title for this book, except that some of these articles probably inspired two professors to argue with each other over the results of tedious multiple regression analyses of voting patterns. But many of the articles here are at least informative if you're interested in potentially important issues like voter turnout (and why it's so low in America), the political knowledge of the public, divided government, or party identification. The expert submissions will surely be of interest to the informed person with interests in the scholarly side of political science. But as is usual in the field, the writing is almost uniformly bland and pedantic (except for Robert &quot;Bowling Alone&quot; Putnam and a couple of others), making the collection quite tedious and repetitive overall. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-04-21
698373:US	52697458	R2XTASOC4Z9JGP	0871876515	597643320	Classics In Voting Behavior Paperback Edition	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Fragmentation and Repetition Only	This is a somewhat useful compilation of writings by experts in political science, dealing with the various issues of political behavior and voting patterns. The works collected here are apparently &quot;classics&quot; because they rose from obscure journals or anthologies, and ended up being influential in the field of political science. The writings are categorized into the areas of voter turnout, ideology, party identification, and others. The editors do a fairly good (if dry) job of introducing the subject matter of each section and describing why each selection is considered influential. The problem here is that the collected works, by the various authors working in various time periods, merely add up to repetition rather than variety. There are a few exceptions, such as one comparative study of voter behavior in the Netherlands. But otherwise, the various authors fail to convince you that their articles are improvements on earlier ones in the same subject area, when all they're really doing is reaching slightly different results after statistical testing. That makes this collection feel extremely repetitive. Meanwhile, the editors strategically chose to only reproduce portions of some works, in order to stick with the most influential findings. That keeps the size of this book manageable, but several submissions begin and/or end with an ellipsis (&quot;...&quot;) and are fragmented and under-elaborated to the point where they cease to be truly useful. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-04-21
703513:US	52697458	RC44SBLFW2TJT	0609609890	438683023	The Darkest Jungle: The True Story of the Darien Expedition and America's Ill-Fated Race to Connect the Seas	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Skinny Land	This catchy little history book shows us how deceptively brutal the Panamanian isthmus can really be. Of course, long before the actual Panama Canal was completed, the region had been obsessed over by all types of explorers and speculators wanting to create the ultimate shortcut for world travel. This book focuses on the 1854 exploratory mission of Isaac Strain and his men, in search of a possible route for a canal in the Darien region of the isthmus, which ultimately was not selected for the canal. While Panama may appear to be just a skinny little strip of land, it is actually up to 100 miles across with steep mountains, punishing weather, the worst tropical diseases and insects, rivers that go in all the wrong directions, and the most impenetrable jungles on Earth. Here Balf documents the harrowing ordeal of Strain and his men, as the team ultimately discovered that the Darien region was definitely not suitable for a canal, losing several men along the way under gruesome conditions of starvation and suffering. Some parts of this book are quite terrifying as guys start dropping dead in the worst possible ways.<br />This mostly fascinating vignette is held back a little by Balf's rather thin and wandering writing style, as the characters (particularly Strain) fail to really come to life. Meanwhile, there are two different stories about the rescue of the nearly-dead Strain and his associates after months of being lost in the festering jungle. In the sensationalistic introduction, meant to draw the reader in, Strain is near death when rescued but dramatically fights his way back to lucidity. But later, in the actual historical account, he was certainly in ill-health but still competently commanding his men. This is one of several examples of inconsistency in this otherwise solid, if intellectually skinny, account. An added bonus is the epilogue in which Balf tries to retrace the steps of the Strain party, and finds for himself (and us) how unexpectedly treacherous Panama is even today. [~doomsdayer520~]anama is even today. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-04-16
708620:US	52697458	R1M1IKAF0K1G3C	0807843490	299353054	Reading the Romance: Women, Patriarchy, and Popular Literature	Books	1	19	41	N	N	Pretentious Over-Analysis	Not being a fan of romance novels, I approached this analysis by Radway from a cultural studies standpoint. This is a relatively informative example from that field, with some reasonably well-defined conclusions about its phenomenon of interest. I have no problem with stipulations that women read romance novels to escape from daily drudgery, to identify with a strong-willed heroine who wins the heart of an ideal man, and even to rebel against their insensitive husbands. Radway could have made these points in a very straightforward manner, but this book takes us on a severely pretentious academic over-analysis, with several methodological problems that make the book difficult to take seriously.<br />First, I will second the claims by previous reviewer M. Dargan who found that Radway shows little evidence that her pseudonymous town of Smithton really exists, under any name. She maintains that the town is a suburb of 112 thousand people, next to a city of 800 thousand (the last two figures are supposedly from the 1970 census), is in the Midwest, is about 2000 miles from New York City, and is in a state with 115 counties. Do a little research, as M. Dargan did, and you'll find that no location satisfying all five of these descriptions exists. I'm willing to concede that Radway may have made some minor mistakes in description, but should this happen in a book that is so extensively researched otherwise? Meanwhile, except for \\"Dot\\" the women profiled in the book appear very homogenous and undifferentiated. Radway's general lack of definition for these women is at least a problem of research methodology, if not outright misrepresentation.<br />In any case, such questions of method would be of little concern if Radway had stuck to her planned thesis, which is to find out why women read romance novels. However, this book descends into a swamp of rusty Hite-style feminist theories on gender roles and sexuality (especially in the interminable Chapter 4), of the type that are just as unyielding and condescending as the male-oriented conceptions they are rebelling against. Radway even concedes that the women in the study rarely had conceptions of such supposedly deep thoughts. On the other hand, they regularly make the standard claims that men are only thinking of one thing, that husbands are threatened by their wives' reading material, et cetera. They can think these things if they wish, but Radway fails to notice that these are stereotypical categorizations of the type that feminist theory is supposed to counter against. Once again, I have no problem with romance novels or the goals of feminism. However, one must wonder about the true agenda of a researcher who turns a thin cultural study of 42 homogenous women who read romance novels, in a town that may not really exist, into 200+ pages of pretentious theorizing and pontification. (...)ust as unyielding and condescending as the male-oriented conceptions they are rebelling against. Radway even concedes that the women in the study rarely had conceptions of such supposedly deep thoughts. On the other hand, they regularly make the standard claims that men are only thinking of one thing, that husbands are threatened by their wives' reading material, et cetera. They can think these things if they wish, but Radway fails to notice that these are stereotypical categorizations of the type that feminist theory is supposed to counter against. Once again, I have no problem with romance novels or the goals of feminism. However, one must wonder about the true agenda of a researcher who turns a thin cultural study of 42 homogenous women who read romance novels, in a town that may not really exist, into 200+ pages of pretentious theorizing and pontification. (...)	2004-04-13
712321:US	52697458	R261AL5CTNY1CP	0061057649	861145707	Feet of Clay (Discworld)	Books	3	0	5	N	N	A Clayfooted Comedy	While Pratchett's Discworld series is surely a powerhouse of creativity and the imagination, this particular installment does little to rise above formula. This edition cannot stand on its own two feet (of clay) because Pratchett fails to add any satirical strength to his bizarre world of werewolves, golems, trolls, dragons, and cross-dressing dwarves. Instead, these strange characters do nothing but add a forced attempt at zaniness to a completely run-of-the-mill mystery story. Does the fanciful Discworld, with its weird creatures and zany goings-on, provide a satirical counterpart to our real world, giving us a way to earn insights into human nature in the way good comedic satire should? Maybe so in the other Discworld novels, but not this one. This volume is little more than textbook comedy that follows the rules of hilarity, but provides few real unexpected laughs. And the comedy is strictly from the Douglas Adams school of slapstick, weirdness for the sake of weirdness, with plot and characterization being neglected in favor of rapid bursts of zaniness. This is still a reasonably enjoyable read, but where's the satirical beef? [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-04-10
714955:US	52697458	R8OGCQTPTSPZP	0375701117	913703407	Pass the Butterworms: Remote Journeys Oddly Rendered	Books	4	6	7	N	N	See Him, Wouldn't Wanna Be Him	Here's another winning collection from Cahill, who takes all the risks of travel to remote and dangerous places and reports his travails in a humble and good-natured style. In this book we witness Cahill coming down with recurring malaria, going numb while posing for rock-climbing photos, and taking a great many falls and spills, usually resulting in embarrassing injuries. Much of Cahill's trademark sarcastic humor is missing from this particular collection, which seems to (intentionally or unintentionally) focus on more descriptive and serious examples of Cahill's writing. Some of the essays here are unexpectedly deep and even disturbing, such as the self-explanatory \\"Search and Rescue\\" and the real winner of the book, \\"A Darkness on the River,\\" in which Cahill analyzes the murder of his friend's son. This book also has several interrelated pieces on the challenges faced by indigenous peoples in Irian Jaya, and the not-so-certain benefits of ecotourism in Honduras. The collection is held back from greatness by some sketchy and fragmented short pieces that don't offer any true insights, such as \\"Buford's Revenge\\" or \\"Help My Pilot...\\" but these may be useful for Cahill's more star-crossed fans. In any case, Cahill almost always brings us along for an enjoyable ride as he gets himself into all sorts of hardship for our amusement. ...	2004-04-08
721191:US	52697458	RE59S8GELZZ9I	0743203046	22408140	Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Get Up. Get Into It, Get Involved	This is a powerhouse study on a subject that would hardly seem worthy of such attention to many Americans. However, most people, other than extremists and misanthropes, probably have nagging worries about America's plummeting levels of public participation, volunteerism, and civic engagement. This concept of &quot;social capital&quot; is Putnam's specialty. The reasons for America's collapsing social capital are many and varied, and Putnam takes us on an intricately considered and very heavily researched study into the causes and effects of this phenomenon. You are unlikely to see a more intensively documented and supported study than this. Like a true scientist Putnam knows that there are no easy answers, and that there are highly varied causes and effects. Also in a manner quite refreshing for social observation treatises of this type, Putnam freely admits that he doesn't have all the answers, that the data is sometimes missing or contradictory, and consistently invites readers to form their own conclusions.<br />Critics of this book often fail to see the big picture and tend to dwell on doubtful statistics in that old can't-see-the-forest-for-the-trees fashion. There are many examples of questionable stats in the book. One that I noticed was the contention in Chapter 6 that sit-down restaurants are decreasing in number. Putnam backs up the claim with data published by the National Restaurant Association, but that organization may be interested in downplaying their numbers in return for business opportunities. There are many doubtful examples like this, but in the long run Putnam's argument is an incredibly persuasive one. He convincingly demonstrates that time and financial pressures, suburban sprawl, mass communications, political ideology, and especially TV are all culprits in the problem; with appreciable effects on crime, education, voting, public health, and even neighborly politeness.<br />Putnam's data-intensive writing style and huge mountains of documentation and evidence lead to some readability issues, especially repetitive information overload. But in the end, it is very hard to escape his conclusions about the worrisome decline of American social capital, and he wraps up the book with great examples of why we should care. When you're done with this illuminating book, don't vegetate in front of the TV, but go out and do something for your community. [~doomsdayer520~]ation and evidence lead to some readability issues, especially repetitive information overload. But in the end, it is very hard to escape his conclusions about the worrisome decline of American social capital, and he wraps up the book with great examples of why we should care. When you're done with this illuminating book, don't vegetate in front of the TV, but go out and do something for your community. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-04-03
726062:US	52697458	R1OL8X5C4C7DPG	1573929727	325985161	Into the Buzzsaw: Leading Journalists Expose the Myth of a Free Press	Books	5	47	52	N	N	Courageous Journalists (and a Few Bitter Ones) Fight Back	In various ways, all the submissions in this book prove how the &quot;Free Press&quot; in America is not always so free. With a few exceptions, most of the essays here are by ace investigative journalists who have had their stories crushed by economic or political pressure from the power elite. This has more to do with the elite holding onto power, rather than inaccuracies in the always professional reporting. In recent times, this pressure increasingly comes from corporate media owners. As a bonus, this book also offers several actual investigative stories, including two with hard-to-dismiss conclusions about friendly fire and TWA flight 800.<br />The high points in this book are the powerful submissions by Monika Jensen Stevenson, covering the preposterous injustices heaped by the US government onto Vietnam POW Bobby Garwood; Michael Levine, covering the mainstream media's complicity in the drug war's ethical and practical failures; and Gary Webb, concerning his travails after exposing CIA drug trafficking operations (the &quot;Dark Alliance&quot; story). All of these stories, and others in the book, were crushed by government pressure in order to protect the power elite. Theory and media watchdog pieces by Carl Jensen and Robert McChesney are also very enlightening.<br />However, this is an uneven collection with some dismal low points that come close to sinking the overall effectiveness of the book. Kristina Borjesson (the editor) and Jane Akre are unprofessionally bitter in their essays, concerning TWA 800 and Monsanto abuses, respectively - their travails with wimpy editors and official harassment notwithstanding. Severe low points of the book include directionless and self-aggrandizing biographies from Maurice Murad and April Oliver, while Karl Idsvoog's piece is little more than a windy sales pitch for his media consulting firm. But overall, if you can stomach some bitterness and inconsistency, this revealing book will both damage your respect for the modern journalism business, but give you faith that there are still courageous journalists out there who are striving for the truth. [~doomsdayer520~]n journalism business, but give you faith that there are still courageous journalists out there who are striving for the truth. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-03-30
736370:US	52697458	R3OJPLF7WNG9VY	0631221409	151359233	The Rise of the Network Society (The Information Age: Economy, Society and Culture, Volume 1) (Vol 1)	Books	2	68	76	N	N	A Polymath Desperately in Need of Focus	Given Castells' huge range of understanding and the sheer ambition of his work, it seems a bit unfair to really criticize this book. Few writers would try to tackle the huge ideas that Castells covers here - vast theories about the state and direction of humanity in relation to the rising information society. On the other hand, theory-of-everything books like this, as frequently attempted by polymaths such as Fritjof Capra, have their own unavoidable problems which deserve to be criticized. When a theorist tries to combine knowledge of everything into a huge integrated and unified theory, the writing becomes monstrously diffuse and unfocused. That is the exact problem with this book.<br />Castells obviously has an understanding of all the disparate theoretical areas that would be encompassed by such a huge endeavor. As the book progresses, Castells is not afraid to move from areas like astrophysics to rural sociology to corporate architecture to programming language to everything else you could think of, often in successive paragraphs. But when describing everything, Castells eventually reaches conclusions on nothing. Bringing together disparate realms of knowledge is one thing, but reaching insights that make sense is much more difficult.<br />That all makes this book extremely tiresome for the reader. In that exasperating theory-of-everything fashion, Castells can't stop piling on new terminology like real virtuality, technopoles, or milieux of information (terms created by himself or others) that merely illustrate the smashing together of ideas, rather than synthesis. And whenever it's time for an awe-inspiring insight, Castells can only come up with supposedly deep (usually in italics for significance) pontifications like &quot;space is crystallized time&quot; or &quot;a place is a locale whose form...[is] self-contained within the boundaries of physical contiguity.&quot; These are indications of Castells' writing style - never-ending collections of disconnected pieces of data, topped off by windy pronouncements. After so many intensive build-ups, Castells can come up with little for the reader to really chew on.<br />And get this man an editor, please. Extremely long paragraphs, some more than two entire pages long, illustrate a real lack of control in the writing department. Castells also has the habit of endlessly qualifying his ideas by explaining what he's NOT going to talk about and why he decided to cover what he IS talking about, to the extent that he almost forgets to make his points at all (see the early portions of chapter 4 for a good example of this). And to think that this 500+ page monster is merely the first book in a trilogy on this subject. Castells deserves credit as a polymath with huge interests and ideas. But he is sorely lacking in focus, and effective writing skills. [~doomsdayer520~]ed pieces of data, topped off by windy pronouncements. After so many intensive build-ups, Castells can come up with little for the reader to really chew on.<br />And get this man an editor, please. Extremely long paragraphs, some more than two entire pages long, illustrate a real lack of control in the writing department. Castells also has the habit of endlessly qualifying his ideas by explaining what he's NOT going to talk about and why he decided to cover what he IS talking about, to the extent that he almost forgets to make his points at all (see the early portions of chapter 4 for a good example of this). And to think that this 500+ page monster is merely the first book in a trilogy on this subject. Castells deserves credit as a polymath with huge interests and ideas. But he is sorely lacking in focus, and effective writing skills. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-03-22
738401:US	52697458	R1MSNJNUTI62PE	0521407869	568209363	The Nature and Origins of Mass Opinion (Cambridge Studies in Public Opinion and Political Psychology)	Books	4	14	23	N	N	Measuring the Unmeasurable	The effectiveness and accuracy of public opinion polls was always assumed, until this important and enlightening book. Zaller consolidates previous doubts about the very definitions of public opinion and how to measure it, and shows the shaky foundations of public opinion polls. In the fascinating early chapters of this book, we find that people's political opinions and poll responses are often distressingly inconsistent; with destabilizing effects from poll design, the ordering and language of questions, whether or not the person recently heard about the issues, and each person's level of ideology and receptiveness to ideas.<br />But this does not prove that people are uninformed, but that standard polling is woefully inadequate in measuring all of the idiosyncrasies of the human mind, and one's opinions on complicated political matters. This book gets off to a great start by illuminating such fallacies. The first few chapters are strong enough to earn this book accolades as a poli-sci landmark. But after proving that public opinion is perhaps unmeasurable (at least accurately), Zaller then spends the rest of the book measuring it himself anyway, with self-designed statistical models. However, it becomes difficult to tell whether he is using the results of his measurements to gain insight into actual public opinion, or merely to prove the viability of his own statistics.<br />By the middle of the book Zaller has embarked on a tedious and uninspiring academic exercise in statistical modeling that adds little to the points that were already made convincingly early on. Unnecessarily complex statistical equations are piled on mundanely, along with unenlightening charts and graphs. Like many other political science writers, Zaller has focused on pleasing his colleagues who are more likely to be impressed by repetitive evidence and windy statistics, while forgetting about the informed general reader who may just find the big-picture conclusions fascinating. That makes the majority of this book somewhat disappointing, rather like standing on a mountaintop on a cloudy day. You know the view (i.e. insights into the political knowledge of the masses) could be tremendous, if it wasn't obscured by clouds (i.e. academic tedium). True knowledge can be gained by disregarding the dusty science of this book and concentrating on the greater insights that lie beneath. [~doomsdayer520~]he majority of this book somewhat disappointing, rather like standing on a mountaintop on a cloudy day. You know the view (i.e. insights into the political knowledge of the masses) could be tremendous, if it wasn't obscured by clouds (i.e. academic tedium). True knowledge can be gained by disregarding the dusty science of this book and concentrating on the greater insights that lie beneath. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-03-20
742867:US	52697458	R3LBX8SHFX63BM	0425053709	996344946	Shatterday	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Mad Conqueror, Entropy	Throughout this book Harlan Ellison, in the introductions to the short stories herein, talks about how writers take tours through other people's lives. But you can tell that Ellison usually takes tour through his own life, and brings us along for the ride. That ride can encompass all the emotions you could think of, which can be seen in the highly varied stories in this great collection. Great examples of emotional introspection here include a man wrestling with his own dark side, almost literally, in both &quot;The Fourth Year of the War&quot; and  &quot;Shatterday,&quot; while a guy's disastrous relations with women over the years come back to haunt him in &quot;All the Birds Come Home to Roost.&quot; Loneliness and disconnection are tackled in the highly moving &quot;Count the Clock That Tells the Time,&quot; my favorite of the collection.<br />Ellison's habit of exercising his own demons does, however, lead to some tiresome bitterness in some stories. The overrated &quot;Jeffty is Five&quot; has won awards as a touching treatise on the loss of childhood innocence, but I find it to be little more than a tirade of cranky things-ain't-like-they-used-to-be nostalgia. The novella &quot;The Lies That Are My Life&quot; is little more than Ellison complaining (symbolically, of course) about his poor relations with other hot-headed writers. But despite those two troublesome entries, this collection is still a powerhouse of Ellison's highly unique and biting brand of speculative fiction. Some great not-so-personal selections add to the book's success, such as an unusual take on war and the human spirit in &quot;Django,&quot; the bizarre sci-fi comedy &quot;How's the Night Life on Cissalda,&quot; and the PKD-like future dystopia tale &quot;The Executioner of the Malformed Children.&quot; You can't categorize Ellison, but you can surely be moved by his unique visions. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-03-17
748100:US	52697458	R13I4IG7X1Z9M1	0075619350	827840277	Essentials of Econometrics	Books	3	5	6	N	N	High on the How, Low on the Why	For a complicated subject like econometrics, or advanced statistics in general, a truly easy to follow overview text is probably impossible. This book comes close and does a fine job of explaining the fundamentals (as an introduction or refresher) before getting into the nitty-gritty of econometrics. There are many examples and problem sets to illustrate the concepts, and the formulas are laid out well and presented in a logical order. You can clearly see how the complex formulas are generated and how they apply to econometric theories. The problem with this book is that the technical focus leads to a distressing lack of conceptual, big-picture understanding. You get exhaustive instructions on HOW to calculate complex statistical tools such as coefficients of determination or multiple aggression analyses. However, regardless of the real-world problem sets used as examples, there is usually little indication of WHY such exercises would be conducted, or WHAT the results truly mean. For example, you know how variance came to equal 2.9167, but does that number truly mean anything? An added problem is generally under-explained definitions of the terms, and a glossary sure would be helpful. This book will teach you with great precision how to calculate, but with precious little on how to interpret the results. {~doomsdayer520~]	2004-03-13
754481:US	52697458	R48TF7USMNLLR	0300072759	929669060	What Americans Know about Politics and Why It Matters	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Who Knows What and Why	Anyone interested in the knowledge levels of the American public, especially in terms of political opinions and where that type of knowledge comes from, will find this book very informative and rewarding. Delli Carpini and Keeter have accumulated a very well researched and documented mass of data concerning what the American people know about many different categories of politics. In an enlightening fashion they break down political knowledge not just into different categories of information, but also by demographic categories in the general population. We find that socio-economic status is as important to political knowledge levels as personal interest or media exposure, leading to occasionally worrisome conclusions about how average people can truly make a difference.<br />This book does sometimes lapse into unnecessarily complex statistical models rife with under-explained regression analyses and coefficients (which should have been relegated to the Appendix section), while the writing style tends to be repetitive and is generally very verbose. Meanwhile, the conclusive analysis of &quot;why it matters&quot; is a bit rushed at the end of the book. But regardless of those issues, this book shows convincingly that the American public's knowledge of their own nation's politics is both more complex than may be expected, but that their knowledge is not always put to the most effective uses. Happily, the authors show that citizens typically do not consign political perceptions into simplistic liberal vs. conservative and black-and-white ideologies, as you may guess from the behavior of politicians and the media. However, we can also see here that the knowledge of the American masses is not frequently put to the best of uses, either by themselves or their leaders. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-03-08
758346:US	52697458	R2E74AIEBNEJUH	0385476760	541051725	The Web of Life: A New Scientific Understanding of Living Systems	Books	3	9	14	N	N	More Compilation than Creation	For those familiar with Capra's more famous tome \\"The Tao of Physics,\\" the inconsistencies of that book are also present in this one. Once again, Capra has attempted a synthesis of specialized branches of scientific knowledge into an overall unified theory, this time dealing with biology and ecosystems. Unfortunately, just as the older book explained eastern and western views of time and space but failed to convincingly integrate them into a larger understanding, the same thing happens here. The result is a useful compilation and summary of various realms of modern scientific thought, but once again Capra's goal of creating a unified theory fails to materialize.<br />What we do get is a serviceable summary of recent research and breakthroughs in various \\"systems\\" theories. This is the antithesis of classic western science in which natural processes are broken down into small independent parts that are only related in a linear cause-and-effect pattern (the mechanistic view). Capra provides plenty of evidence that natural phenomena, both within organisms and across ecosystems, operate in far more complex and systematic fashions. These types of systems theories are necessary for a true understanding of the Earth and life itself.<br />But Capra's work here is mostly summary with little analysis. He tends to introduce scientists and their theories repeatedly throughout the book, and very large segments are made up entirely of the works of other theoreticians such as Lynn Margulis or Humberto Maturana. Capra also has an annoying way of saying that every scientific discovery he covers was groundbreaking or profoundly influential. The book ends very inconclusively with a skimpy 8-page epilogue in which Capra tries to tie the extensive knowledge he has compiled into a new theory of how humans should interact with the Earth. But it turns out to be merely simple environmentalism, and not the grand unified theory that was goal of all the extensive build-up. This book is quite useful as a summary of knowledge, but once again Capra just doesn't quite bring it all together. [~doomsdayer520~]useful as a summary of knowledge, but once again Capra just doesn't quite bring it all together. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-03-05
759444:US	52697458	R2TW1FGD3PZB7L	1557835179	117462636	Hirschfeld's Harlem: Manhattan's Legendary Artist Illustrates This Legendary City Within a City	Books	5	1	2	N	N	75 Years of Brilliance	This is a very impressive and moving collection of artwork that captures a robust culture from a unique perspective. While best known for his apparently goofy caricatures (a common opinion that is a caricature in itself), Al Hirschfeld is actually a keen and insightful observer of culture. Hirschfeld came of age in New York City almost next door to Harlem, and was heavily influenced by the culture of the Harlem Renaissance, and this spirit informed his interpretation of African American culture for the next 75 years.<br />Before embarking on his well-known celebrity caricatures, Hirschfeld captured the spirit of Harlem culture and nightlife in narrative paintings of regular people, which are collected impressively in this book's opening gallery. Here Hirschfeld's misleadingly simple style captures a full range of motion and emotion - capturing dancing, music making, and street culture with incredible power. The same goes for the uncharacteristically haunting &quot;Ebony Sister&quot; which speaks volumes on black experience. Next is a fantastic collection of caricatures of African American celebrities, covering a good 75 years of showbiz greatness, in which Hirschfeld uses simplicity and humor to bring out each performer's most eye-catching strengths.<br />As usual, it is great fun to search for the Nina's that Hirschfeld always slipped into his portraits - the best is one of Whoopi Goldberg, whose dreadlocks are made up almost entirely of Nina's. This book is well-supported by an outstanding essay on the Harlem Renaissance by Gail Lumet Buckley, as well as commentary by many black entertainers who have been moved by Hirschfeld's documentation of their culture, and who sure don't treat him like any sort of outsider. This is truly a winning collection not just of great artwork, but of its place in culture and history. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-03-04
765733:US	52697458	R3AYVGHURV5JVS	0553296655	345563051	Prayers to Broken Stones	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Well-Written Speculative Fiction	Due to his big-selling science fiction novels, Dan Simmons is usually lumped into that category. My edition of this paperback even has an unbelievably inaccurate cover illustration featuring an astronaut, though only one of the stories here even remotely involves space travel. The varied works in this collection of short stories firmly place Simmons in the more inclusive genre of speculative fiction, with an ethic similar to that of his hero Harlan Ellison. There are a couple of clunkers here, like the rushed and unfocused anti-televangelist yarn &quot;Vexed to Nightmare by a Rocking Cradle,&quot; plus an unnecessary TV script. But otherwise the selections here are well written and very compelling, with Simmons specializing in the humanistic side of the supernatural. Highlights include a highly disturbing tale of death in the family in &quot;The River Styx Runs Upstream,&quot; two tales about the inescapable horrors of war in &quot;E-Ticket to &quot;Namland&quot; and &quot;Iverson's Pits&quot; (covering the Vietnam and Civil Wars, respectively), and the outstanding psychic murder suspense of &quot;Carrion Comfort.&quot; This collection is a great introduction to a writer who doesn't get enough credit for the variety of his ideas. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-02-29
773848:US	52697458	R1DXS8GARB78V9	0521629470	649574395	Power in Movement: Social Movements and Contentious Politics (Cambridge Studies in Comparative Politics)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A Strong Focus on Politicized Social Movements	Aside from some introductory matter on the various schools of thought in social movement research, here Tarrow mostly focuses on the influence of political structures on the formation of popular movements. This includes both external political and social influences, plus developments in the interactions between movements and the states/regimes they are confronting. Tarrow mostly uses movements that have had strong political effects in various nations (mostly Europe) as examples for his theories, and utilizes the concept of \\"cycles of contention\\" to elaborate on the evolution of movements over time. This specialized focus does lead to some interesting results, such as Tarrow's reconstruction of the disparate revolutions in Europe in 1848 as a widespread movement, or coverage of how states can co-opt a movement's message as a means of control. He has a nearly Marxist conception of such trends, but mostly avoids the tiresome pontificating that is usually fostered by Marxist theorizing. Another bonus is the final chapter of the main text, dealing with new phenomena in globalized or transnational social movements. The book does lose steam frequently as Tarrow gets distracted with long histories of the movements he uses as examples (including way too much repetitive information on the 1848 phenomenon), while his generally strong writing does occasionally lapse into diffuse professor-speak, which sadly is unavoidable in this field. But in the long run, this book offers mostly powerful coverage of politicized social movements, and the study thereof. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-02-23
776106:US	52697458	R3F2LHSHRVNFK3	0521563895	429211292	The Macro Polity (Cambridge Studies in Public Opinion and Political Psychology)	Books	3	10	30	N	N	Strong Premise Sunk By Tedious Presentation	This is a book that deserves to be influential in the field of political science, for both good and bad reasons. The theories presented here deal with macro-level or system-wide trends in American political behavior. If the authors can be believed, there was little previous work done in this area. Instead, political science focused on the behavior of individuals and then tried to aggregate the resulting data into system-wide theories. The evidence indicates that the behavior of the public is not always &quot;the sum of the parts&quot; and there are specific phenomena at play that influence the larger electorate, at the system level. The authors have conducted an impressive amount of research, which probably took years, including macro-level data about voting patterns, partisanship, ideological trends, presidential approval, and public opinion. Their conclusions about the existence of macro-level phenomena are generally believable and supported by the evidence, and their work will probably prove to be groundbreaking in the field.<br />On the other hand, this book embodies everything that is wrong with the academic side of political science these days. At least the authors will be accepted by their peers who value method more than insight. Here it becomes more important to impress one's peers by piling on endlessly repetitive evidence and trotting out unnecessarily complex statistical equations, all to prop up points that were already made convincingly in prose form. Each chapter in this book makes strong and believable points, but then degenerates into the worst of academic tedium, indicating that the authors chose (or were forced) to please ivory-tower editors and academic committees, rather than people in the outside world who could truly make use of their findings. Hence, we have a book with strong and often illuminating conclusions, sunk by the worst in academic writing and presentation. Next time these authors (and their publishers) choose to release their findings for consumption by the public, they should realize that this audience expects insight, not long-winded theorizing and statistics. [~doomsdayer520~]ngs for consumption by the public, they should realize that this audience expects insight, not long-winded theorizing and statistics. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-02-21
778889:US	52697458	R31QA70XEVX3U1	0631192131	292853085	Social Movements: An Introduction	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Mostly Useful for European Studies	Despite the title, this book cannot really be considered an introduction to the field of social movement research, because it is more specialized than that. Della Porta and Diani are leading sociologists in the European university system, so movements in Europe become the natural focus of this book. This is especially useful if you have interests in European developments, both with social movements and the study thereof, plus unique Euro-politics in the areas of leftism and anarchism. Such material is often fascinating, especially in regards to the fall of the Iron Curtain in recent decades. But beware that this focus cannot be generalized to social movements in other regions of the world because of differing political and social climates - regardless of the authors' occasional attempts to bring examples from America and other regions into the text for comparison.<br />Note that the authors focus primarily on the \\"political opportunity structure\\" arm of social movement research. Once again this leads to quite informative results, except that other realms of knowledge in this field, especially framing and mobilization structures, are under-represented. Also beware of the final chapter which presents an attempt to wrap up (European) social movements into the greater scheme of things. Personal opinions seep into that chapter's coverage of feminist and women's movements, while the authors' theories on the continuities between successful movements and the growth of democracy is a purely European perspective, and even then it only applies to a few specific circumstances like Poland and Romania. One final issue with this book is the writing style, which often succeeds in drying out fascinating material with very tedious academic prose. This may be an issue with translation. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-02-19
784918:US	52697458	R1CD5KVATE5ASF	0375713298	957760741	Hold the Enlightenment	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Out Looking for Trouble	This is not a quest for enlightenment, as the title says. Tim Cahill doesn't bore you with touristy descriptions of scenery and high culture that you get from the more button-down travel writers, but diaries of everything that goes wrong with world travel. In Cahill's case this can range from the comical to the disgusting to the downright dangerous. He's not a comedy writer, as some think, but uses humor effectively at key points in his writing to drive his accumulated insights home. Otherwise he is very perceptive and even serious when the situation demands it. This is a loose collection of essays from locations ranging from remote and dangerous third-world hellholes to American commercial adventure destinations. The writings are delivered with a lot of humble pie, which is Cahill's secret weapon. A funny example is when he compares himself to a platypus: &quot;so strange, so different from the rest, so inherently dorky as to be unclassifiable by science.&quot; I can identify with that. Some winning essays here, among many, include a trip to a town in Ecuador on the verge of demolition by a volcano, and examinations of the true personalities of gorillas and dolphins. Another winning collection from Cahill, in which he proves that enlightenment is not the travel writer's friend. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-02-15
785426:US	52697458	RLWRW097IOUEC	1583226052	819126133	Censored 2004: The Top 25 Censored Stories	Books	4	31	39	N	N	Still Important; Uneven This Year	Having followed the Project Censored yearly editions since the mid-90s, I have found that each volume has its own level of quality, even though the uncensored stories themselves are always of utmost importance. That is probably because of the changing staff of judges and college interns that Peter Phillips utilizes each year. A recent highpoint in the series is the 2003 edition, with powerful coverage of post-9/11 developments in journalism. On the other hand, 2001 saw an atrocious and poorly edited parade of whiny conspiracy theories and condescending tirades toward the public for not taking certain stories seriously. This new 2004 edition is somewhere in between, with some strong coverage fighting against poor editing and selection of material.<br />This book suffers from both poor technical and poor managerial editing. First, there are a considerable number of typos and technical errors. Meanwhile, after the year's top 25 stories are covered (and they're as important as always) the commentary section of the book is distressingly uneven from an editorial standpoint. We get fascinating and powerful essays on media behavior regarding the propaganda-heavy Iraq War, and the horrific challenges to the First Amendment unleashed by Homeland Security. But surrounding these are clunkers such as &quot;Media Democracy in Action,&quot; which attempts to praise alternative news organizations but comes across as a wave of advertisements, especially in regards to Pacifica Radio and a community newspaper operated by Phillips. Meanwhile, the updates on censored stories from previous years are now being written by various members of the project team, with often unprofessional results indicating a need for more (or any) editorial control.<br />Once again, the stories uncovered by the team are of incredible importance to all Americans who are concerned about media behavior and knowledge of truly important events. For this reason, the work of Project Censored is as crucial as always. However, this edition of the series shows again that an entire large book requires a level of editorial and writing strength that the team is not always able to deliver. [~doomsdayer520~]However, this edition of the series shows again that an entire large book requires a level of editorial and writing strength that the team is not always able to deliver. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-02-14
789127:US	52697458	R183HNETPR17VQ	0231053576	143295134	Learning to Labor: How Working Class Kids Get Working Class Jobs	Books	5	16	26	N	N	How a Cultural Study Should Be Done	This book is apparently a classic in the fields of cultural studies and ethnography, and I agree that it's certainly one of the stronger examples of the form. This study by Paul Willis, which was conducted in the 70s, is certainly free of the political correctness and obsession with romanticizing other cultures that later polluted the field and drained its credibility. Willis' study on working class kids in England and the issues they face in joining the workforce can be seen as interesting in itself, as such issues were surely overlooked by lofty academics before and since. Especially rewarding is Willis' method of actually making himself a believable member of a group of lower class boys at school and then following them into the industrial workforce after graduation. This adds an immense amount of credibility to the study.<br />This particular subject matter is surely outdated, even in England itself as the education system there has (mostly) moved away from a focus on dividing kids by class, then doing nothing for the 'problem' kids but preparing them for menial jobs in industry. However, there is much to think about concerning the larger issues that Willis raises, especially the rigid tendencies of the class system (not just in England), and the methods used by those at the bottom to cope with a system they probably will not be able to get out of. The 'analysis' section of the book gets a bit sluggish as Willis performs the required ivory-tower application of theories to the findings he collected while sojourning with the working class kids. The predictable treatise on Marxist theories of labor and capital gets especially tiresome, though otherwise Willis still manages to keep the theory section mostly interesting, as he builds on crucial insights into class structures and the dark side of industrial society. All this from hanging with a bunch of rowdy and potty-mouthed British schoolkids. ...	2004-02-11
793583:US	52697458	R12M99Y6M7ZMZN	1841693200	771187595	Statistics for the Behavioural Sciences: An Introduction	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Not Recommended as an Intro or Refresher	If you are looking for a well-written and well-explained introduction to statistics for the humanities, or are wishing to brush up on old knowledge (as I was), this book is not a good choice. This is a poorly executed mish-mash of various statistical concepts that will probably lead to confusion. For example, hypothetical problems are presented in paragraph form as part of the regular text, rather than as easier to execute problem sets; while formulas are piled on sequentially with little description of the mathematical functions that bring each formula about. There is inconsistent use of symbols, such as *mu* for an average or mean, engendering confusion between European and international standards. The book abounds with garbled and under-explained  text such as \\"This process can be generalized to the distribution of any sum of k random variables, each with the chi-square distribution.\\" The experiments used to illustrate statistical methods are generally poor in design, and the organization of the book from one method to the next is mostly arbitrary and confusing. Not recommended. [~doomsdayre520~]	2004-02-08
800133:US	52697458	R18REM7PNSYVEG	0300025572	911191109	Retrospective Voting in American National Elections	Books	3	2	10	N	N	A Somewhat Informative Period Piece	An analysis of retrospective voting patterns would have surely been informative in the political science field back when this book was published in 1981. Here Fiorina uses data for elections up to 1976 to advance the theory that voters either can't or don't want to guess what will happen after an election, so they vote based on their perceptions of what candidates and parties have done prior to that point. This is called retrospective voting and it seems like common sense. Just note that this generally believable theory does not appear to hold true today, as voting has become more ideology-oriented and focused on the likeability of candidates, as opposed to the strong party identification that was common during the elections studied here. Also, this particular book starts with interesting treatments of the theories, but then becomes a rather mind-numbing statistical analysis of all related theoretical models, that sacrifices readability in favor of data constructed merely for the peer review process. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-02-03
804497:US	52697458	R2U8O0085FQ0DV	0195158075	374461801	Supreme Injustice: How the High Court Hijacked Election 2000	Books	4	8	14	N	N	We (All Americans) Were Robbed	This screed from Dershowitz analyzes the Supreme Court's role in the 2000 election from a legal focus. The point is that the Supreme Court's actions, decisions, and very involvement in the election were unethical and unconstitutional, and here Dershowitz provides plenty of evidence from constitutional law (both Federal and State), court precedents, and each Justice's prior statements in similar cases. Other reviewers have criticized Dershowitz's partisanship - he's a staunch Democrat - and that is a valid concern when it comes to his writing style and frequent lapses into big statements and polemics. Dershowitz's writing is a severe weakness here, with a convoluted and extremely repetitive law-school style, while the later parts of the book drift into speculation and conjecture, especially when examining each Justice's personality and motivations.<br />However, the evidence is convincing that the five Justices who gave the election to Bush were acting politically and ideologically, with future rewards for themselves in mind, and things would have been different if &quot;the shoe were on the other foot,&quot; as Dershowitz says about a thousand times. Most telling are the inconsistencies that Dershowitz finds in each Justice's use of precedents, and deviations from their own previous judicial philosophies, as they waffled in Bush's direction. Dershowitz clearly shows the severe travesty of how the Court found ways to justify not counting all the votes for Gore. However, the Court essentially invalidated the votes for Bush as well, by taking it on itself to decide the election. Thus both sides should be appalled at this collapse in the Supreme Court's respectability. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-01-31
817642:US	52697458	R3S22STSFML9Q5	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	3	11	14	N	N	How the Other 80% Live	This revealing look at the low-wage worker class does have many problems with methodology, which you can see in plenty of other reviews. Ehrenreich certainly took a chance by leaving her comfy lifestyle to live and work among the lower class. The authenticity of her investigation is definitely damaged by her use of a pre-paid car (shielding her from reliance on mass transit or rides from friends), while she had a backup emergency fund and the obvious ability to drop out of the project anytime she chose. My biggest qualm is the fact that Ehrenreich, even though she got some comparative insights by working in different cities, stayed in each one only for a month. This way she avoided the long-term problems of the working poor, especially the mounting debt loads, not to mention the long-term misery that comes when you realize you're not getting anywhere.<br />On the good side, you will certainly appreciate the sociological insights Ehrenreich uncovers from inside the poor working class. Housing of course is the major killer, along with repetitive work injuries, the indignity of menial work, and the sense of isolation from the rest of the world. Ehrenreich also has some great and darkly sarcastic things to say about the bizarre working culture at Wal-Mart. Unfortunately, Ehrenreich sets the book even further back with a deficit in the likeability department. This is especially true when describing her stint at a Maid agency, when she goes on tirades about the snobbish owners of the houses she cleaned, which are not much different from her own house back in real life. Ehrenreich's conclusions about the working class in light of current economics and politics are generally accurate but a bit heavy-handed. Ehrenreich congratulates herself for her experiment even though, unlike the people she met in the trenches, she could easily get out of it. But in the end, this is definitely a revealing and often dismaying look at the lives of misery more and more people have to live these days, and Ehrenreich's perspective from the more privileged class is certainly useful. [~doomsdayer520~]ese days, and Ehrenreich's perspective from the more privileged class is certainly useful. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-01-21
823031:US	52697458	R29HL21F26JJ8W	026272006X	23009800	Learning from Las Vegas - Revised Edition: The Forgotten Symbolism of Architectural Form	Books	3	38	53	N	N	An Architectural Nightmare	This is a quite unusual and offbeat treatise on architectural theory, as applied to the world's greatest architectural monstrosity - Las Vegas. This analysis from the early 1970s is obviously outdated because Las Vegas hadn't yet become the monument to megalomania and excess that it is today, but it was already well on its way. The authors analyze Vegas' unique usages of space, lighting, placement, transportation, and building design for the purposes of communication and promotion. Strange chapter titles give a clue to the left-field analysis in store, and the authors have a clear sense of irony, underhandedly implying that Vegas presents the worst in architecture while they appear to be praising its uniqueness. Unfortunately the narrative gets bogged down in dense professor-speak terminology like \\"Brazilianoid\\" and \\"neo-Constructivist megastructures,\\" along with a general overload of obtuse theory. Add to that the poor-quality and under-elaborated illustrations and you have a book that sacrifices insight and readability in favor of pedantic attempts to impress the authors' colleagues. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-01-17
823086:US	52697458	R17ZJILXXLSWLK	0815412878	844062359	In Search of Genghis Khan: An Exhilarating Journey on Horseback across the Steppes of Mongolia	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Interesting Mix of Mongolian Travel and History	In this book Tim Severin is not really searching for Genghis Khan himself, as the title states, but for traces of the lifestyle and traditions in the modern world that have been inspired by the great leader. Severin traveled throughout the vast and sparse nation of Mongolia, mostly by horse and in the company of herdsmen who still lived the semi-nomadic lifestyle that had endured for centuries. Severin includes fascinating descriptions of the harsh Mongolian landscapes and good character sketches of his companions. An added bonus is coverage of the semi-autonomous Kazakh people of the western part of the country, along with interesting ruminations on the death throes of Communism that were developing at the time. Interspersed with the travelogue are an engaging history of the Mongolian people and a compendium of knowledge of Genghis Khan and his conquering exploits. On the bad side, Severin is not a very strong writer (or needs a better editor), and he is often unnecessarily judgmental. This is evident in cruel conclusions about a member of the expedition named Ariunbold, a bureaucrat whose poor leadership deserved criticism, but Severin gets personal. The final chapter should probably be ignored as Severin passes judgment on the character and intelligence of the Mongolian people and the effects of their vast history, giving rather condescending pontifications of another people's culture and history. Fortunately, interesting tales of the Mongolian people and their intriguing landscape and history keep this book mostly enjoyable. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-01-17
832854:US	52697458	R1QOXP36C6LGMV	0312874766	74115197	Domain	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Precariously Ambitious	Steve Alten is a guy with really big ideas. He has certainly done his homework in coming up with the premise of this very ambitious novel. Alten works with the documented theories of the students of &quot;forbidden archeology,&quot; who have come up with all sorts of wild speculation about connections between ancient cultures such as the Mayans and Egyptians, along with alien overlords, energy fields, and ancient prophecies. Alten utilizes this outlandish knowledge to build an epic novel that has everything - natural disasters, divine intervention, political treachery, aliens, giant monsters, supernatural phenomena, war and destruction, and the epic battle between good and evil. This novel is a real page-turner and the plot elements are certainly intriguing. Unfortunately things start to get out of hand during the very busy climax of the story, which Alten turns into an increasingly ridiculous attempt at a biblical-scale epic, with a rather cheesy love story in the background. The supernatural phenomena are especially lacking in credibility. This novel is recommended for its sheer ambition, though you will also see that Alten is a little low on subtlety, and needs to rein in his huge ideas a little more effectively. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-01-10
837176:US	52697458	R2NYIXJNI6N52Q	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	11	16	N	N	They're Eating Right Out of His Hand	With close to 2400 reviews, surely everything has been said about this book. I don't have much to add, except that a pretty large percentage of the reviews here are completely wrong. Of course conservatives won't like the book, and you can tell from many of the one-star reviews that such reviewers didn't even read the book anyway. Reactionaries, just like their political heroes. Also watch for five-star reviews (not including this one) in which reviewers agree wholeheartedly with Franken's liberal views. That's fine with me because I'm (mostly) on that side of the political spectrum myself. But those types of reviewers have missed the point of the book. Franken is exposing the style of lying utilized by conservatives and their right-wing media lapdogs, by using the same kinds of polemics and truth-stretching himself, as an illustrative device. He's using the phrase &quot;fair and balanced&quot; in exactly the same way they are. That's called &quot;irony&quot; folks, and I don't mean the type found in an Alanis Morrisette song. If you're a left-winger who can't figure that out, at least you'll like the way Franken shoots down conservative dogma with things they've never heard of - facts and evidence. If you're a right-winger who also missed Franken's use of irony, and have condemned the book in the usual reactionary and uninformed fashion, congratulations for taking the bait. You have proved Franken's points better than even he could have imagined. Next time, cut out the middleman and just jump right up into the boat. [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-01-07
839127:US	52697458	R3E3QFH0TQQUN6	0312303564	658381905	In the Name of Science: A History of Secret Programs, Medical Research, and Human Experimentation	Books	3	43	51	N	N	Outrage Ruined by Conjecture	This is a book that is truly terrifying some of the time, but ultimately it's marred by unsupported conjecture and scare tactics. Goliszek shows us that there is indeed a long and shameful history of medical experimentation on humans, dating as far back as medicine itself. In modern times there is still much unethical and often illegal experimentation on humans taking place by the government and corporations. And you guessed it - the human subjects are usually minorities, the handicapped, coerced military personnel, and uninformed volunteers. Strangely, these days lab animals have more rights than human subjects. Much of this book builds a deserved sense of outrage about these ongoing atrocities.<br />Unfortunately, the entire book doesn't hold up, becoming a repetitive tirade of unsupported opinions and scare tactics from Goliszek, attempting to force the reader's sense of outrage to the point of absurdity. A major issue is Goliszek's lack of notes and citations, regardless of a very extensive bibliography, because the reader cannot tell documented facts from the author's opinions. In the text Goliszek often adds extensive background to many tales of experimentation, sometimes down to the level of government document numbers. But strangely, in other narratives there is no information given whatsoever, so you have no way of knowing how much the story is embellished by the author. One example among many is a horror story in chapter 4 about radioactive iodine being injected into healthy infants, with no times, locations, or names given.<br />Meanwhile, conjecture and opinionating sinks much of the book. For example, in chapter 3 Goliszek brands Planned Parenthood as a eugenics organization, merely because the group's founder was involved in that movement almost a century ago. In chapter 5 the testimony of people subjected to unethical medical experiments is given verbatim, as if this were adequate documentation of atrocities, though there is no evidence that the people are telling the whole truth, and at least one shows signs of inaccurate repressed memory syndrome. Chapter 8 presents a parade of conspiracy theories about the origins of AIDS that leads nowhere. Goliszek's book is a potential powerhouse, and some of it has the desired effect, but overall his motives become very questionable. Public education or scare tactics? [~doomsdayer520~]le are telling the whole truth, and at least one shows signs of inaccurate repressed memory syndrome. Chapter 8 presents a parade of conspiracy theories about the origins of AIDS that leads nowhere. Goliszek's book is a potential powerhouse, and some of it has the desired effect, but overall his motives become very questionable. Public education or scare tactics? [~doomsdayer520~]	2004-01-06
847888:US	52697458	R257FQGL9BPYI4	0520017102	737007668	Alaska Wilderness: Exploring the Central Brooks Range	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An Unreal Remoteness	Robert Marshall explored unmapped Alaska during the years of the Great Depression and World War II, going where no man (at least of the white variety) had gone before. Despite a few scraggly settlers and pioneers in the area, most of the central region of the Brooks mountain range was unmapped at the time, making it one of the last remaining unknown areas in the US. Marshall describes his various journeys of great hardship with a cool understated style that makes the whole endeavor look like a piece of cake, despite navigating treacherous rivers (including one near-death experience in a flood), climbing countless mountains, confronting grizzly bears and other predators (he describes one bear as being big as &quot;two elephants plus a rhinoceros&quot;), and generally sojourning with just a few partners for weeks at a time and hundreds of miles from the nearest civilization. Unlike some modern &quot;adventure&quot; writers, Marshall steers clear of bombast and extreme sports boasting, and describes the amazing scenery and thrill of discovering new geography with unassuming and occasionally moving prose such as &quot;an unpeopled universe where only the laws of nature held sway.&quot; He's not afraid to dig deeper either, occasionally giving shocking details of the hard life of the local settlers, and the feeling of natural isolation from the unhappy outside world of the time. This is a great read for anyone who loves the exploration and thrill of discovery that are increasingly rare in modern times. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-12-30
851668:US	52697458	RFRHQATTGF1U5	1400034523	77394731	Surrender or Starve: Travels in Ethiopia, Sudan, Somalia, and Eritrea	Books	4	32	37	N	N	True Knowledge from the Ground	This book details Kaplan's reporting from the African famine zones in the mid-1980s. While specific events are getting outdated, Kaplan does provide plenty of insight and realism about famine and power in Africa. This book mostly covers developments in Ethiopia, with important details on the separatist provinces of Tigre and Eritrea. Despite the book's subtitle, there is only some tangential coverage of Somalia as it related to events in Ethiopia at the time. Note that Somalia's well-publicized disasters hadn't happened yet. The same is true for coverage on Sudan, except for the latter parts of the book when obscure struggles in the inaccessible southern parts of the country caught Kaplan's attention. Also note that this new edition is supplemented with an enlightening update from the newly independent nation of Eritrea.<br />What matters most in this book in Kaplan's use of realism when interpreting events in the Horn of Africa, as he has done in all his other books covering various hellholes around the developing world. While the famines in the mid-80s shocked the world, most Western people (and governments) thought that drought was the unavoidable culprit. However, Kaplan proves through ground-level experience that the famines were really the outcome of murderous political policies, as food (and the withholding of it) was used as a weapon by the ruling regimes to control dissident groups, while never-ending civil wars and power politics impeded distribution of aid money and supplies.<br />Beware that this book nearly collapses in Part 4 as Kaplan analyzes the actions of the US and USSR when the Horn became embroiled in Cold War politics. Kaplan behaves like a Monday morning quarterback in criticizing the actions of both sides, with a rather bigheaded display of second-guessing toward the actions of international leaders, that only demonstrates Kaplan's unfair advantage of 20/20 hindsight. Fortunately, this problem (which also infects several of Kaplan's other books) does not sink this mostly powerful study of how ground-level knowledge from such Third World hot spots, and a truly realistic outlook, are the only ways to understand what's truly going on behind attention-grabbing stories of war and famine. [~doomsdayer520~]oks) does not sink this mostly powerful study of how ground-level knowledge from such Third World hot spots, and a truly realistic outlook, are the only ways to understand what's truly going on behind attention-grabbing stories of war and famine. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-12-28
855230:US	52697458	R158ARZRO5KG5	1403963681	657786037	Terrorism and Tyranny: Trampling Freedom, Justice and Peace to Rid the World of Evil	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Ignorance Isn't Bliss	This is not a book that gives you a good feeling. James Bovard has unleashed a relentless and powerful expose of government abuse and mismanagement since 9/11. The Feds have made use of that tragedy to maximize their power over citizens' lives and trample the constitution. The &quot;war&quot; on terror, as if it were possible to defeat a concept, has allowed George W. Bush, John Ashcroft, and their neoconservative cronies to consolidate power, force their ideology on the rest of the world, and adopt a strategy of continuous warfare anywhere on Earth where there is mere &quot;suspicion&quot; of terrorism. Government oversight and constitutional checks and balances have been eliminated by the administration's claims of national security and the need for secrecy. Dissent and criticism have been crushed under a wave of flimsy morality consisting of little more than vague buzzwords like &quot;democracy,&quot; &quot;safety,&quot; and the badly distorted &quot;freedom.&quot; As Bush and Ashcroft have both said many times, &quot;either you're with us or against us.&quot;<br />If you think Homeland Security and the War on Terror will really bring freedom and safety to Americans, think again. Bovard judiciously (and sometimes repetitively) analyzes how the Patriot Act and other homeland security codes have deprived you of many of your First and Fourth Amendment rights. And the book is exhaustively cited and researched - I count 2065 endnotes for 353 pages. Bovard proves with little doubt that under the Bush administration's lofty rhetoric of freedom and safety, they have actually fomented a radical consolidation of power that will do little to end world terrorism, but will do a lot to trample American freedoms, while increasing hatred toward the US from around the world. While Bovard sometimes loses his cool and isn't always levelheaded, he raises some very troubling questions here about who the tyrants really are. Your government wants you to remain in the dark about what is really going on. But that's not freedom, it's ignorance. It is the duty of Americans to stay informed and not just swallow what the government dishes out. [~doomsdayer520~]really going on. But that's not freedom, it's ignorance. It is the duty of Americans to stay informed and not just swallow what the government dishes out. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-12-23
858781:US	52697458	R2LCBQLPXPPED5	0060190108	606013413	Living the Bill of Rights: How to Be an Authentic American	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Important but Uneven Look at Constitutional Knowledge	This book has a very important premise - an examination of how the Bill of Rights, and restrictions on it, can affect the lives of real people. Here that especially applies to the First Amendment, which is Hentoff's specialty. He has great insights into how lack of knowledge among the public of our inalienable constitutional rights can open the door to true modern tyrants who would like to restrict those rights more and more. By profiling courageous Americans, primarily students and teachers who have been persecuted for exercising their rights of free speech, Hentoff brings an important human focus to constitutional issues that most Americans probably think are far-off, lofty theories that don't really apply in real life.<br />Unfortunately this book tends to drift away from that important premise, and the premise sometimes has to fight to keep its head above water. In profiles of Supreme Court Justices Douglas and Brennan, while correctly praising their work to preserve the Bill of Rights, Hentoff drifts into hero worship that occasionally gets out of hand. The book really loses its focus in the later chapters, as Hentoff starts with important issues in education, religion, and the prison system but then goes off on politically tainted tirades about current events. Examples include generalizing court-appointed attorneys as &quot;less than amateur,&quot; and calling Janet Reno &quot;irrelevant.&quot; Meanwhile Hentoff's views on the First Amendment's treatment of freedom of religion appear very inconsistent to me (in terms of ground-level applications for students and teachers), though they may be consistent for him in light of his absolutist views on the subject.<br />Fortunately, Hentoff imparts many especially insightful and far-reaching quotes and nuggets of wisdom from those involved in constitutional battles. The book is saved overall by the courageous citizens and wise Justices who have done so much to teach us all about our rights. But sometimes you get the feeling that they deserve to be in a more consistent book. [~doomsdayer520~]feeling that they deserve to be in a more consistent book. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-12-20
861771:US	52697458	R3SVK2X1FKA2XF	0609608185	422139917	Elvis and Nixon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Pop Culture Schlock as Dark Social Commentary	In this rather creative novel, Lowy has expanded a famous but certainly schlocky pop-culture event, Nixon's meeting with Elvis, into a dark and satirical commentary on the larger issues of the day. The actual meeting doesn't take place until the end of the book, when Elvis volunteers to help Nixon spy on the types of characters inspired by the events covered in the rest of the story. This is essentially a story about the Vietnam War and its destructive effects on the American culture of the period. Lowy's characters run the gamut of all the types of people who were affected - former soldiers scarred by the horrors of the war, hippies in the new counterculture of dissent, reactionary squares who would say anything to disagree with the hippies (no matter how hateful), a military commander who has realized that blood is on his hands, and representatives of the increasingly paranoid clan of Nixon cronies. A social examination of all these troubling trends is really the focus of this novel. Plus we get a wonderfully muddleheaded Elvis, though Lowy seems to be stretching a bit when imaging how a drug-induced mind operates. Meanwhile, Lowy attempts a highly tangled web of conspiracies and political intrigues among the paranoid government spooks who haunt the book, but has bitten off more than he can chew, as the subplots get unnecessarily dense and tangled. Some annoyingly heavy-handed moralizing is lurking around beneath Lowy's writing style. But this book is still a fun read that can be unexpectedly disturbing and thought-provoking. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-12-17
862897:US	52697458	RJSFBMB53FDB1	0873529863	600744907	MLA Handbook for Writers of Research Papers	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Acceptable Guide for Writing Acceptable Research Papers	The best parts of this edition of the MLA guide are those that enforce the mechanics of strong writing, though if you're the creative type with unconventional ideas, there is no need to be constrained by these guidelines. Another good section concerns plagiarism, especially the tips on how to avoid both malicious and accidental plagiarism. The guidelines on how to conduct research are better presented elsewhere, while the chapter on how to format a paper is not entirely useful unless you have an assignment that demands that particular type of formatting. Otherwise you will often be free to use a format and construction style of your own choosing. Of course the meat of this guide is the sections on citations and bibliographies, which quite clearly explain the punctuation and mechanics of just about every type of citation imaginable (including new-fangled Internet sources). The only problem is that these sections are difficult to search because of a fuzzy index that sends you to annoyingly demarcated section numbers rather than page numbers. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-12-16
866595:US	52697458	R3REWJ3N6V29PD	0973144327	415988596	Chocolate Thunder: The Uncensored Life and Time of Darryl Dawkins	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Book That Could Use More Game	Though Dawkins didn't have the most immortal NBA career, he does have the insights and understanding of the game to write a potentially powerhouse book. He deserves his place in history as the league's original entertainer and showman, and he did have a stone classic moment when he shattered the backboard to smithereens during a monster dunk. Dawkins is both smart enough and funny enough to understand the workings of the game while taking its dark side with a grain of salt. Thus he has great insights into the drug culture in pro sports, racial politics in the NBA of the 70's, the lowdown practices of agents and owners, and poor coaching. He also has many fascinating and illuminating things to say about the current state of the NBA, with its focus on promotion and superstardom rather than the fundamentals of solid team ball.<br />Darryl's great insights into these matters could have been the basis for a solid and powerful book of sports commentary. But here, the wisdom merely pops up occasionally in the midst of a funny but unremarkable bio about sex and partying, trash talking (though I did love the crack \\"Dennis Rodman's elevator didn't stop at the top floor\\"), and especially too much complaining about how referees mistreated him. Meanwhile, who knows what \\"professional\\" writer Charley Rosen was doing. We can't expect Dawkins to be a flawless writer, but having a supposed professional on board should have resulted in a book with more credibility. While Darryl's life story can be a fun read, I suggest that he write another book that sticks with commentary and criticism of modern basketball, because he knows what he's talking about. That book would be as powerful as one of his dunks. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-12-13
869363:US	52697458	RIX4T9J5GIH8M	0767912802	23108770	Lost in Mongolia: Rafting the World's Last Unchallenged River	Books	5	6	6	N	N	One Really Hair-Raising Adventure	While Colin Angus is hardly Shakespeare in the writing department, and the voyage he describes was spotted with ineptitude and a lot of luck, this has to be one of the most exciting and hair-raising adventure diaries of recent years. Note that the title is not really representative of the book, as &quot;Lost in Mongolia&quot; merely describes one aspect of the journey. Only the upper headwaters are in Mongolia, while the expedition down the Yenisey River mostly takes place in Siberia.<br />Regardless, Angus and his mates had a perilous adventure through unforgiving landscapes with friendly people, surrounded by corrupt government officials and the depressing leftovers of Stalinism. The voyagers made some unbelievably stupid decisions along the way, like rafting the river at flood stage, which got them shipwrecked in a forest. Angus then went off on his own in a kayak in search of a lost camera bag, with no supplies and wearing nothing but a pair of pants. He presently got &quot;Lost in Mongolia&quot; for several days, and without the help of some friendly locals and a huge amount of luck, it's amazing that he lived to tell the tale. After the team reunited, more ineptitude ensued when they bought a small rowboat to traverse down the now large and tumultuous Yenisey, dealing with supertankers, dams, and disgustingly cramped living quarters.<br />In Siberia, they met many interesting people who really make this book a great read, from mafia dons who offered huge amounts of assistance and supplies in return for a little intelligent conversation, to friendly and helpful villagers who gave from their hearts and asked nothing in return. The human side of this adventure is the most revealing, as Angus and the team would have surely been unable to complete the voyage without help from the people of Mongolia and Siberia, assuming that they would even get out alive. This book is both an exciting tale of a real seat-of-the-pants expedition, and an enjoyable showcase of interesting cultures and landscapes hidden behind the decayed Iron Curtain. [~doomsdayer520~]sting cultures and landscapes hidden behind the decayed Iron Curtain. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-12-10
874247:US	52697458	R7DP197FU4Y49	0520237862	194231371	The Silk Road: Two Thousand Years in the Heart of Asia	Books	5	102	106	N	N	A Visually Rich and Expansive History	The ancient trade network between East and West known as the Silk Road is one of history's great melting pots, and the world's most dynamic mixture of culture, language, and knowledge. Frances Wood uses the Silk Road as mostly a conceptual backdrop for more specific historical vignettes here, as a complete history of all the different cultures and societies involved, over the course of at least three millennia, would be prohibitively huge. Though there is some discussion of actual trade and the goods transported long distance and sold in the area's bazaars, Wood focuses on specific areas of interest, such as the mysterious Xiongnu people of ancient times, or the more modern dramatic journeys of explorers like Sven Hedin. A nice bonus is a debunking of some of the claims of Marco Polo, who surely traveled through the area but made many dubious descriptions of particular locations he probability didn't really see. Instead we hear the fascinating stories of other less-known but arguably more impressive travelers of the time, like Bento de Goes. Some of Wood's narratives get worrisomely far away from the Silk Road backdrop, and the tail end of the book is a bit of a slog with tedious coverage of latter-day explorers. However, the general appreciation for the importance of the Silk Road is the larger achievement of this book, and the frequent illustrations and photographs of forlorn landscapes and ancient masterpieces make this book a visual treat as well. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-12-07
876181:US	52697458	RFCZ7ZUJIUOB2	0325001847	30371199	Beyond Boundaries	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Informative Writings on an Encouraging Trend	This slim but efficient collection hands out much-needed information on cyberspace developments in several different African nations, and throughout the sub-Saharan portion of the continent in general. Despite the region's well-known problems of poverty, wars, and lack of development, the seeds of a cyberspace revolution are developing. In each of the country-specific articles here, as well as the editors' introduction and conclusion, we can see that cyberspace is allowing these up-and-coming countries to leapfrog over their underdeveloped systems of traditional communications, and embrace the World Wide Web. The beneficial aspects of this new technology are general freedom of expression, a rise in national identities (especially in the fascinating example of Eritrea), and representation for marginalized groups such as women and resistance organizations. Unfortunately, the book is rather inconsistent, as a few chapters are very meager or merely collections of news sources, such as the pieces on Namibia or Senegal. However, this is still a valuable and encouraging look at how, even though it may take a while, Africa will be able to use cyberspace for advancement and influence on its own terms. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-12-05
884327:US	52697458	R2NDUKQHYSXNVB	1904132138	77937660	You Are G8, We Are 6 Billion: The Truth Behind the Genoa Protests	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Poor Representation of an Important Movement	Here Jonathan Neale has attempted two books in one - a personal chronicle of the Genoa protests, and a scholarly examination of the issues they were protesting. The former works a little, and the latter doesn't work at all. As a participant among the whopping 300,000 protestors at the Genoa G8 summit, Neale's story from the trenches is an occasionally valuable account of the beliefs of a movement that has been denigrated and belittled by the mainstream press. Especially terrifying are his eyewitness accounts of police brutality against individual protestors, who are given a human face through Neale's support. However, he tends to criticize the various social movements and interests that have come together into the anti-globalization effort for not cooperating and integrating their beliefs, but offers absolutely no organizational or social knowledge that could offer potential solutions to that problem. Meanwhile Neale tends to add a sappy human focus to the protest movement, adding unnecessary descriptions of his personal issues, and for some reason following the love life of a fellow protestor named Nicola.<br />About half the book is dedicated to globalization itself, and this is where things really falter. Chapters are dedicated to attempted analyses of issues of concern like world poverty, oil politics, and global warming, but merely present warmed-over history and lists of complaints with absolutely no citations or references. This highlights Neale's lack of true political and economic understanding, as well as his weakness for squishy conspiracy theories of the corporations-trying-to-control-the-world variety. His attempt at an economic analysis of globalization overall betrays absolutely zero understanding of international economics (see the works of Joseph E. Stiglitz and Thomas L. Friedman for competent examinations from both sides). The closing chapter about a better post-globalization future is just a stream of socialist pie-in-the-sky utopianism like universal daycare and an end of sexism. Neale's book is a potentially valuable study of the important and growing anti-globalization movement, but the passionate protestors and thinkers involved deserve a far better showcase than this. [~doomsdayer520~]ersal daycare and an end of sexism. Neale's book is a potentially valuable study of the important and growing anti-globalization movement, but the passionate protestors and thinkers involved deserve a far better showcase than this. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-11-29
886059:US	52697458	R2NQEHV7UZPZ6R	1588341240	216398248	Voyager's Grand Tour: To the Outer Planets and Beyond (Smithsonian History of Aviation and Spaceflight Series)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An Outstanding Voyage of Discovery	This book is a scientific history of the Voyager 1 and 2 missions, with in-depth coverage of the technological development of the spacecraft, the scientists and engineers involved, and budgetary and political concerns. This history stretches back for decades, culminating in the launch of the two vessels in 1977 and their exploration of the outer planets, and their current wanderings at the edges of interstellar space. Note that actual planetary science covering our new knowledge of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and their many moons is found in other books, even though that knowledge was provided by the Voyager vessels. Here the authors betray their weaknesses in planetary astronomy with very rushed coverage of those matters, which only appear in the final third of the book anyway. Meanwhile some of the technical and budgetary coverage gets quite tedious, although such scientific history is meant to be the focus of the book. But as a whole this volume does give a very in-depth history of mankind's most far-reaching scientific achievement, as we have realized the dream of extending human knowledge through and beyond our solar system. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-11-27
889957:US	52697458	RWJYLVS0NZA7R	0312083440	963271931	The Fair Trade Fraud: How Congress Pillages the Consumer and Decimates American Competitiveness	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Alright, We Get the Point Already	The main thesis of this book is great and perfectly worth the effort that Bovard has made in exposing a real problem. However, you have surely never read a more repetitive book in your life. Here Bovard tackles the inefficiency and capriciousness of US \\"free trade\\" laws and the bizarre politics at the Commerce department. US trade officials make an art of penalizing foreign companies for behavior that US companies are subsidized to commit, and have attitudes toward imports that we pledge to go to war to prevent in other countries. All the rhetoric about \\"free\\" trade from politicians is swamped by protectionism in real life, with unfair and often ridiculous consequences. For example, politically motivated tariffs against imported steel, designed to save a few jobs in the American steel-production industry, have destroyed a far larger number of jobs in American steel-using industries.<br />Once again, the points here are excellent but the book isn't. First, Bovard is prone to blanket statements and polemics like \\"The U.S. International Trade Commission is a loose cannon on the shipdeck of the American economy.\\" Worst of all, Bovard's main point of argument is the fact that there are thousands of extremely arbitrary and unfair trade sanctions in US trade relations. That's good to know, but Bovard apparently feels the need to explain just about every one of them in a ridiculously repetitive fashion. Bovard's main points could be made much more effectively in an in-depth magazine article, rather than a rambling 300+ page book that becomes a never-ending and mind-numbing list of numbers and regulations. Bovard apparently doesn't notice that he makes the same point several hundred times. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-11-24
891806:US	52697458	R2O3KMI2UHV12F	0393322963	967454060	The Bush Dyslexicon: Observations on a National Disorder	Books	3	20	22	N	N	Mean Book About a Dumb Guy	This book is certainly more than it seems, and is far more than just a lampoon of George W. Bush's voluminous offerings of gaffes, malapropisms, inconsistencies, incoherencies, and outright bald-faced lies. Miller builds upon such presidential illiteracy to make much larger points about the way power is constructed in the modern American system. This is the focus of the introduction and conclusion of the book, which surround an extremely repetitive parade of Bushisms that merely illustrate Miller's points through sheer volume, rather than analysis. Meanwhile, Miller's larger tenets about the state of American democracy sometimes materialize, but often don't.<br />I agree with most of Miller's basic positions, as we currently have a president who is far from qualified for the job, got a free ride from his family and its bootlickers his entire life, has no independent thoughts, makes all decisions based on the whims of the rich and powerful, epitomizes the deep resentment and bubbling hatred of the slipping privileged class, and wasn't even truly elected. The fact that such an unintelligent and unqualified person was placed into power by money and vested interests and used as a figurehead, all the while enjoying a non-critical sunny treatment from the corporate media, should make all of us extremely concerned about the state of American democracy and the directions in which our country is headed.<br />Miller utilizes Dubya's illiteracy and lack of skill in order to illustrate this larger thesis, and his argument makes perfect sense. The problem with this book is that Miller keeps drifting away from his main points and goes off on many mean-spirited tirades about the entire American system in general, and electoral history back to mid-century. I happen to agree with the bulk of Miller's polemics, but they would be more helpful in a book that was meant to be a call to arms. Unfortunately they tend to sink this book that comes very close to groundbreaking socio-political points, but doesn't quite get there. [~doomsdayer520~]points, but doesn't quite get there. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-11-22
894879:US	52697458	R9YBL1WKJTH79	0932415628	438615874	Eritrea: Even the Stones Are Burning	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Workmanlike List Of Eritrea Knowledge	For a definitive summary of Eritrean history and social knowledge, you can't ask for much more than this magnum opus from Pateman. Eritrea's 30-year struggle for independence from Ethiopia, finally achieved in 1993, is a remarkable story which deserves much more attention from the outside world, and Pateman is just the sympathetic and personally knowledgeable expert to tell the story. While this book is a treasure trove of all sorts of useful information on all aspects of Eritrea, it is mostly written as a never-ending list with few overall insights or analysis. The early parts of the book show some unprofessional sour grapes toward other writers on the subject, and for some reason Chapter 1 devolves into a useless dissertation on Marxist theories of nationalism which is straight from disconnected professor-land. Most importantly, history has made this book's ongoing usefulness a shaky proposition. The most immense event imaginable for Eritrea - their independence - happened right after this book's first edition, making much of it outdated. This spectacular historical development should have encouraged a significant re-write, or even an entire new book, from this admitted expert authority on the country (though a lack of resources would be forgivable). Thus, Pateman's quick and sketchy epilogue on post-independence developments in this second edition does not do full justice to the remarkable story of Eritrea and its hardworking people. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-11-19
897978:US	52697458	R1HKJDG0B2AZ1I	0300099436	504065436	Manufactured Landscapes: The Photographs of Edward Burtynsky	Books	4	32	37	N	N	Meager but Attractive Collection of Narrative Photography	Edward Burtynsky surely has a keen eye for unnatural landscapes and features that have been scarred by man, and his stunning and thought-provoking photos of such matters are the focus of this book. Despite Lori Pauli's introduction, not to mention the very title of the book, I don't buy the claims that Burtynsky was dedicated to the relationship between man and nature, or is always on the lookout for &quot;manufactured landscapes.&quot; This is certainly true for his shots of railroad cuts up and down huge mountains where they surely don't belong, indicating a desire for conquest by railroad engineers. However, I find much of Burtynsky's work, at least as presented here, to be about devastation and ruination of both the environment's health and its scenic aspects. This is most evident in his terrifying shots of uranium and other heavy metal pollution around lakes in Ontario, the bizarrely angular destruction at marble and granite mines, and the strange operations at a supertanker graveyard in Bangladesh. The main problem with this volume is that is generally meager in its offerings, and Burtynsky's shots are often presented in a disappointingly small size. Thus this book can be best seen as an incentive to explore Burtynsky's work further. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-11-17
898852:US	52697458	R10S11VXAZK06R	1853839892	143590894	Globalizing Civic Engagement: Civil Society and Transnational Action	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dry But Unique Analysis of Worldwide Movements	This is the type of book that sticks to a very dry and theoretical research focus, and appears to have little personality, but beneath the academic dross many interesting concepts and insights emerge. The essays here analyze worldwide social movements - most of which, but not all, are involved in anti-globalization protests. The presence of tens of thousands of protesters at the WTO conference in Seattle, and likewise in more recent meetings in other countries, shows that the protesters are organized and serious about their concerns, despite what the media tells you. In this book we find that a myriad of small and diverse groups dedicated to all sorts of causes have come together for the larger fight. The authors analyze the structures and methods of group organization, using mostly theories from sociology or political science, and this is where the most useful information develops. Especially interesting is the chapter studying the use of the Internet for widespread protest mobilization, plus chapters on the dynamics of movements for third world debt forgiveness and distribution of AIDS drugs. Beneath the dry academic writing is a lot of very useful information on how concerned individuals and groups can mobilize and organize in the most effective ways, for the greatest impact of their ideas. Hopefully this unexpectedly useful book will find its way into their hands. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-11-16
900491:US	52697458	R3O00TPDXOL2LU	1560255080	205134163	The I Hate Republicans Reader: Why the GOP Is Totally Wrong About Everything ("I Hate" Series, The)	Books	4	66	86	N	N	Here Comes the One World-Government	This book could definitely use a better title, regardless of any attempt by the editor to be funny or ironic. This type of title encourages reactionaries to publish one-star reviews consisting of less than three sentences, when they haven't read the book or even looked at a copy with their own eyes. Despite the corny title, there is some very informative material in here, and this compendium can be seen as a useful introduction to the workings of some powerful and well-connected writers, such as Arianna Huffington, Paul Begala, and James Carville. Consider the excerpts here to be a good justification for exploring larger and more in-depth books. The running theme in many of the excerpts here is the abuse of power and influence by the Dubya administration, along with its use of empty patriotism and simplistic jingoism to silence all dissent. It's interesting that guys who spread horror stories of a one-world government are well on the way to becoming one themselves.<br />Of special concern is Alan Dershowitz's expose on power plays at the Supreme Court to unethically hand the 2000 election to Bush, and Michael Jewell's intricate investigation into the Dubya administration's incestuous corporate connections and their effects. However, the book has to be penalized for mixing such serious material with a lot of cheese. Two satirical pieces from The Onion (the world's greatest webzine) are funny but misplaced, while silly quizzes and a collection of Donald Rumsfeld's bad poetry are wastes of space. Worst is Paul Slansky's never-ending 47-page laundry list of outdated Dan Quayle stupidity mixed with unfocused 80s irony. So once again, consider this book merely a useful introduction to greater works elsewhere. Those who automatically condemn this book as liberal babble (assuming they can spell either of those two words correctly) have been brainwashed by the very same dirty tricks described herein. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-11-15
901987:US	52697458	R1QKALO6FICRU4	0393051242	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The Economics of Failure	As noted on this book's cover, there are few people in a better position to examine the problems of globalization than Joseph Stiglitz. This book is mostly an indictment of the faulty economics of the globalization process, especially as practiced by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank. Despite that focus on the economics, Stiglitz successfully integrates first-hand economic knowledge with the larger issues of globalization, especially social justice in developing countries.<br />His main focus is the poor economics practiced by the IMF in their so-called mission to stabilize world financial markets. Instead, the IMF is guilty of pushing the ideology of free markets, which is not supported by economic data and has little connection to the real world. The free market ideology does not even have credence in the US, as we have social safety nets and economic regulations to protect citizens against market failures. However the IMF, as a condition for monetary aid, forces developing nations to enact simplistic free market systems before they have regulatory structures or institutions in place, leading to all kinds of economic chaos and suffering. Stiglitz provides evidence that such narrow-minded economic bullying by the IMF was a key factor in the Asian financial collapse of the late 90s and the continuing financial anarchy in Russia.<br />The most chilling indictment here is that the IMF and World Bank are less concerned with the development of poor nations, than with religiously pushing the vested interests of their main stakeholders: Wall Street fatcats and financial speculators who make quick profits off currency fluctuations and cheap exports. Meanwhile the nations who follow the IMF's rules, like Bolivia and Thailand, suffer long-term consequences. While his writing style gets repetitive as the book progresses, Stiglitz provides solid evidence of why globalization, at least as practiced by American vested interests, is a cause of great worldwide suffering and resentment against the US. [~doomsdayer520~]ide suffering and resentment against the US. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-11-13
905756:US	52697458	RWPFFXALBJ6SP	1587784181	843550644	The First Amendment (Concepts & Insights)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Well-Written Coverage of a Complicated Subject	This is a very rewarding and well-written text on all the issues concerned with the First Amendment, which are far more complicated than you might think. The book starts strongly with in-depth coverage of the original language of the First Amendment in the Bill of Rights, different schools of thought on the nature of free speech, and how the doctrine of free speech developed over time. Key concepts such as the \\"content distinction\\" are then introduced, followed by distinct chapters on problematic free speech issues such as hate speech, sexual material, and speech in public schools. Farber does a good job of detailing important court cases in which relevant free speech rules were defined, as well as interesting contemporary cases in which new issues have been raised. The best aspect of this book is Farber's very strong writing about ethical issues, social problems, and unclear court doctrines. He's very good at coming up with hypothetical situations to illustrate loopholes in First Amendment law, and his examination of the social issues behind hate speech and pornography are outstandingly written and evenhanded, and are the impressive highlights of the book. This is highly recommended for anyone studying the unexpectedly complicated realm of free speech in America. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-11-11
907526:US	52697458	R20T38S9IHJ2BF	0140170138	511623342	The Maine Woods (Penguin Nature Library)	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Live Like a Philosopher	This screed from Thoreau is obviously not as classic as his work on Walden, but here we may be seeing the beginning of the travelogue business. Thoreau is often misrepresented (by those who haven't read his works, or have read them too many times) as a hardcore back-to-nature hermit who lived off the land and rejected civilization. One read of his Walden story disproves that stereotype, and in this work about three trips to Maine's wild country, we can surely see Thoreau's social side all the more. At the time, the Maine Woods were surely a thrilling landscape ripe for exploration and adventure, and Thoreau gives us an enjoyable travelogue of his ramblings and recreations. A bonus is great coverage of the Indians of the area, especially Thoreau's longtime traveling colleague Joe Polis. The only problem here is that Thoreau's introspective naturalist philosophy is mostly missing at this stage of his career, and he pretty much accidentally invents descriptive travel writing instead. This is still a worthy exploration if you're interested in the Maine Woods either as they were then or if you wish to explore them today. But Thoreau's classic naturalism is better found in his other works. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-11-09
912651:US	52697458	R1J8ACKYU5BVKU	1564322351	855681646	The Internet in the Middle East and North Africa: Free Expression and Censorship	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Strong Statement, But Will It Work?	This brief handbook is getting a little outdated in terms of technical development, but most of its points still hold true and can be reasons for concern. Regardless of technical advancements the social structure and governments in the Middle East and North Africa probably have not gotten better since this screed was published, and may have become worse. Human Rights Watch ties their call for popular Internet access in with their basic policies of free expression for all peoples, and the end of surveillance and harassment by electronic means. This is all fine and good except for the fact that Human Rights Watch is applying Western ideals of freedom, which are obvious and unquestioned for some of us, onto nations and cultures with far different regimes, histories, and social development. Simply repeating again and again basic homilies about how great freedom is will not get anybody very far without more in-depth insights into how to change deep-seated convictions that have stood for centuries. A refined focus of this nature would strengthen the Human Rights Watch focus, not just in this book but in general. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-11-05
920320:US	52697458	RFIWVZ6TV4CCB	0671664271	954102735	Lost Horizon	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Impossibility of Utopia	This timeless and visionary novel, while inflicted with some British chauvinism that was common at the time, deserves to be called a classic. Here we have the story of four Westerners who in the 1930s are kidnapped by plane and crash-landed in an uncharted Tibetan valley. They are welcomed into a life of ease and luxury at a suspicious lamasery, Shangri-La, where the monks speak English and enjoy Western books and modern technologies. It turns out that the four abductees were recruited to add to the population of the local village and can never leave, while the lead character Conway is ordained to become the new High Lama. It turns out that this apparent Utopia may not be so fulfilling after all, and that is the key message of the novel. Hilton gives us the struggles of a man who has been damaged by the horrors of war and the modern rat race, and just wants to find a place to get away from it all. But even a place as peaceful as Shangri-La is not so wonderful under the surface.  Maybe Utopia is truly impossible to find in our world, both geographically and spiritually.<br />This novel does have a few problems in characterizations and politics. Other than Conway the characters are shallow and one-sided. The one female among the Westerners, Miss Brinklow, is very narrow and nearly invisible, while the non-Westerners are mostly anonymous.  Most importantly, the book comes close to sinking under what could either be called a lack of political correctness or immense British snobbery from Hilton's writing tradition. The High Lama is a European and actually states that \\"Europeans of the Nordic and Latin races\\" are the best candidates for enlightenment, while the Tibetans and Chinese in the story are presented as servants or bureaucrats. This is a condescending and unfortunate slight to Buddhism and the traditions of Tibet. Luckily, higher philosophical insights make this novel much bigger than the sum of its parts. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-10-30
926281:US	52697458	RNH2YEY88FFLK	0140042520	961771211	The Dharma Bums	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Beat Buddhist at Large	This is probably one of the best samplers of the religious beliefs and lifestyle experimentation as practiced by the Beats. This so-called novel is actually another one of Kerouac's mini-autobiographies, in which he is calling himself Ray Smith. His good friend Japhy Ryder in the story is based on Kerouac's real-life cohort Gary Snyder. Rather repetitively, Ray, Japhy, and their fellow slackers spend much of the story getting drunk and discussing the very elementary Beat religion, which was merely a fractured collection of misunderstood Buddhism, counter-cultural irony, and a little under-utilized anarchism. Sure it was a weak &quot;religion&quot; but here it is for all to dig. We also learn a lot about how to live the unconventional life of a drifter, which may still be possible in a few isolated corners of America. The end of the story is a very impressive treatise on communing with nature and is the true treasure of this book, though it reveals a strange obsession with Gary/Japhy. This installment of Kerouac's philosophy isn't quite mind-blowing, but it can still be an enlightening read in this day and age. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-10-25
930763:US	52697458	R31Y5RQLFGVTKV	0393314928	947479708	In Short: A Collection of Brief Creative Nonfiction	Books	2	15	38	N	N	A Never-Ending Parade of Lightweights	I can't figure out why the editors and publishers of this volume are claiming it to be a celebration of a new art form. Brief creative nonfiction? Hardly. Some of the pieces here could be called creative, but absolutely none of them are nonfiction. Nonfiction is the study of issues or phenomena with evidence and analysis. Here we have a collection of what everyone else in the world calls memoirs, and which have been easily found for decades in magazines and newspapers. While such works can be a relaxing and non-stressful read when you come across them, in a compilation such as this book they are repetitive and mind-numbing. I count 91 submissions in this book, and every single one can be categorized as a simple memoir, especially since almost all of them have &quot;I&quot; or &quot;me&quot; or &quot;our&quot; in the opening sentence. Very few stand out from the crowd in any way. Incongruous winners include Richard Rodriguez's disturbing meditations on the struggles of Mexican migrant laborers, David James Duncan's piece about witnessing an accidental death, Michael Shay's thoughts about giving his son Ritalin, and six or seven pretty good pieces on the various horrors of war. But otherwise, the book inflicts upon us a never-ending parade of quaint musings and meditations, attempted deep thoughts on minor matters of human interest, and several dozen interchangeable Thoreau-like nature reflections. Memoir writing has its own strengths and usefulness, but this lightweight and sluggish book is not the groundbreaker it thinks it is. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-10-22
931875:US	52697458	R17DBCXFLD67V4	0853459894	848843208	Capitalism and the Information Age: The Political Economy of the Global Communication Revolution	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Uninformative Essays about the Information Age	In such a fast-moving field like information technology, it is not fair to criticize a five year-old book for being outdated. That is an issue for some of the essays here, such as the submission by Nicholas Baran from the mid-90's, in which some inaccurate predictions about the development of the Internet are made, like an incorrect perception of how wireless access technologies would develop. While that's an issue that can be mostly forgiven in hindsight, this book suffers from a more timeless problem of lack of usefulness. The most successful essay here is the introduction from editor Robert McChesney, with serious ideas about the future salience of capitalist markets in light of the cyber revolution. This is purported to be the focus of the other essays in the book, but the results prove otherwise. Submissions range in an uninspired fashion from ivory-towered theoretical exercises (Ellen Meiskins Wood) to non-analytical economic or technological histories (Jill Hills and the aforementioned Baran). A conversational lecture from Noam Chomsky is out of place, while his colleague Edward Herman merely summarizes his book that should be read in its entirety for any true insights. The submission from Michael W. Apple on the Channel One network in school classrooms comes quite close to a very important analysis, but ends abruptly with a diversion to the author's previously published works. In the end, a few informative essays on globalization issues (Peter Golding) and grassroots politics on the Web (Ken Hirschkop) can't save this book, as it does not accomplish the goals implicit in its title and introduction. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-10-21
935854:US	52697458	RJ8ISDXEGDQNT	039473954X	586555842	Power/Knowledge: Selected Interviews and Other Writings, 1972-1977	Books	3	59	63	N	N	Brilliant Thought, Not Brilliantly Presented	Don't get me wrong - Foucault is an absolutely brilliant thinker and modern philosopher. His methods of utilizing classical thought and analysis in the study of modern problems (at least up to the mid-20th century) are fascinating and hugely insightful. He knows the causes and effects of power in all its manifestations, and he applies this knowledge to all manner of intriguing contemporary issues such as struggles against the state, the prison system, health care, sexuality, and geopolitics. (I would be especially interested in Foucault's take on the modern American prison-industrial-political complex.)<br />The problem with this book is in the presentation. I don't agree with other reviewers who state that this is a good summary or compendium of Foucault's works, because of its very fragmentary nature. Each of the chapters here can be considered distillations of Foucault's thoughts on key subjects. Most of the chapters are structured as interviews or dialogues but with no surrounding context. We have no explanation of who the interviewers are or from which angle they have approached Foucault's works. The chapters begin abruptly, often with the feel of an interview in progress, with no introductory explanations of the context for that portion of Foucault's efforts. Similarly, the chapters end abruptly with no wrapping up or conclusive explanations of the matter at hand. One chapter consists of two \\"lectures\\" given at different times, with zero explanation of the purpose of Foucault's visit to wherever the lecture was delivered, who the audience was, or the environment in which Foucault's presence was utilized.<br />Therefore this book is not a good summary because it only leaves you with fragmentary details of far more vast philosophical masterpieces, with no surrounding context or supplementary information. You can get a passable introduction to Foucault's general ideas here, but for true knowledge you will have to tackle his proper dissertations. The best examples with relevance for contemporary thought are \\"Madness and Civilisation,\\" \\"Archeology of Knowledge,\\" and others. [~doomsdayer520~]with relevance for contemporary thought are \\"Madness and Civilisation,\\" \\"Archeology of Knowledge,\\" and others. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-10-18
937320:US	52697458	R16QGUFVYX740H	1579546277	779815236	Unequal Protection: The Rise of Corporate Dominance and the Theft of Human Rights	Books	5	15	17	N	N	The Perils of False Personhood	Ignore other reviewers of this book who use narrow-minded pejoratives like Anti-Corporate, Anti-Capitalist, or even Communist in condemning this book. Thom Hartmann is none of the above, and in this extremely important book he brings to light the horrific state of corporate control and the loss of human rights in modern times. And unlike some other books on this general topic that merely complain, Hartmann extensively researches the root causes that have turned the useful concept of the &quot;corporation&quot; into a monster.<br />Corporations have inaccurately cited an obscure Supreme Court case from 1886, Santa Clara Country v. Southern Pacific Railroad, as giving them &quot;personhood.&quot; Corporations have since claimed the rights of natural people and have trampled the Constitution regularly. Despicable abuses include claiming free speech rights under the 1st Amendment for campaign contributions and false advertising; claiming that health inspections and government oversight are unlawful searches under the 4th Amendment; and most obnoxiously, claiming that 14th Amendment protections against discrimination should insulate them from any local ordinances or taxes they don't like. Hartmann proves that lawsuits invoking these ideas usually win due to the vast resources of corporations, who also routinely abuse the legal system with frivolous lawsuits designed to crush little people who can't sacrifice several years and millions of dollars to mount a defense. Hartmann also takes his coverage to the global stage, with the havoc wreaked by multinationals in the nearly religious quest for the inaccurately named panacea of &quot;free&quot; trade.<br />Another strength of this book is that Hartmann actually has solid ideas for change, which are far more useful than the pie-in-the-sky idealism of other writers on this subject. Admitting that the process may take decades, he nonetheless makes solid recommendations for utilizing the existing political process, and even old forgotten laws, to revoke the disastrous corporate personhood doctrine. This is a very well researched and informative book for those with real concerns and ideas for improving our fractured system. [~doomsdayer520~]d forgotten laws, to revoke the disastrous corporate personhood doctrine. This is a very well researched and informative book for those with real concerns and ideas for improving our fractured system. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-10-16
944155:US	52697458	R2JUDP1BTBWE8A	1563899752	881360813	Swamp Thing VOL 06: Reunion	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Sowing the Seeds	Here is the final installment of Alan Moore's tremendous and groundbreaking run on the Swamp Thing series, collecting original issues #57-64. Moore brings to a precise ending his take on the character and his breathtaking development as an elemental spirit, but with plenty of room for future writers to continue the series. We also see the apotheosis of Moore's strong horror (and increasingly, sci-fi) writing, which both resurrected and revolutionized this comic genre. At the beginning of this particular collection, Swampy's spirit is still drifting in outer space, and Moore takes him on a series of adventures that illustrate his very &quot;fertile&quot; imagination. Swampy restores fertility to Adam Strange's nuclear-damaged planet, accidentally mates with a lonely bio-mechanical space station (in a great example of speculative sci-fi), and accidentally enslaves a sentient plant civilization but amends his misdeed with help from the local Green Lantern associate.  Moore brings his run to a close by finally reuniting Swampy with his true love Abby, as he ponders his place as an elemental god on his home world. The artwork continues to astound as well, with Rick Veitch and Alfredo Alcala handling most of the duties during this period, while colorist Tatjana Wood continues her moody and praiseworthy work. This is the stupendous ending to one of the great series in comics history, and also one of the best graphic novel collections. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-10-11
947084:US	52697458	R13F6UXM0BJZVV	0380806452	823966926	The Watch: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Anarchist Out of Time	This is a very creatively constructed story with elements of both time travel and historical fiction. For his own reasons Dennis Danvers has made himself an expert on the obscure Russian anarchist Peter Kropotkin, who died in 1921. In this book Kropotkin is sent to present-day Richmond, VA by a mysterious meddler from the future, who either wants to change history favorably with Kropotkin as the catalyst, or simply amuse himself by creating new time streams. The story is told as an autobiography by the displaced Kropotkin, and this leads to enjoyable musings on how a Russian from the last century observes modern America, and especially how he finds kindred souls among a group of punk rockers. Interestingly, and perhaps courageously, Danvers lays down a lot of criticism of his hometown of Richmond and its strange obsession with its hateful past, through the eyes of Kropotkin.<br />Though many of the characters in this novel are quite well drawn and enjoyable, Kropotkin among them, he speaks mostly in the writings of the real-life anarchist, which Danvers clearly wants to bring to light for modern readers. That may have even worked with me, as my curiosity about Kropotkin's works has been piqued. But this method of storytelling leads to a rather implausible book in which Danvers is advancing his own theories and using Kropotkin's &quot;classics&quot; as a tool. The plotline also gets a bit out of hand toward the end, and the true motives of the mysterious future meddler remain vague. This is truly a fun and fascinating novel, and a great exercise in creative storytelling. But the use of Kropotkin's writings by Danvers to comment on modern society gets very heavy-handed and didactic. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-10-09
950875:US	52697458	REED94WOC5Q43	0742511308	136605890	Big Media, Big Money: Cultural Texts and Political Economics	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Essential for Understanding the Media Oligopoly	This academically intense book deals with the issue of media concentration and control by the corporate giants - a concern that of course has been dealt with in the more famous books &quot;The Media Monopoly&quot; by Bagdikian, &quot;Manufacturing Consent&quot; by Herman and Chomsky, and numerous others. But Bettig and Hall's book has the advantage of cutting edge coverage of the contemporary (for the time being) effects of the lack of diversity in the media, and a fast-paced and thought-provoking writing style. This is most evident in the authors' research into how modern media reports on itself, especially the internal reactions from media players to the mega-mergers of the late 90's. Up-to-date examinations of the movie and music industries are another plus, including the ongoing debate over piracy and how that populist craze has inevitably succumbed to humble copyright laws, regardless of the big-money corporate crackdown. Great insights in the second half of the book include how advertising is designed to preach the ideology of consumerism, with the media (and recently, the schools) being used by advertisers as compliant tools in a nearly religious quest for unyielding capitalism. The book wraps up with a bang as Bettig and Hall examine the media's hideously one-sided treatment of globalization protesters, which of course supports the position of the corporate media oligopoly. This short but jam-packed book is essential for the understanding of the dire cultural, political, and economic effects of the corporate concentration of the modern media. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-10-06
952359:US	52697458	RF3F8IIKSYWA0	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	5	33	37	N	N	All-American Extremism	In this contentious book Jon Krakauer takes aim at Mormon Fundamentalism, an often bizarre and extreme belief system that has led to much bloodshed right here in America. We have our religious fanatics and extremists too. Critics will accuse Krakauer of belittling the Mormon faith altogether, possibly out of personal spite. At times he gets uncomfortably close to doing just that, especially when describing the order's history. For example, he contends that Joseph Smith concocted the infamous plural marriage (polygamy) doctrine as a divinely ordained excuse to cheat on his first wife, and subsequent \\"true believers\\" have spread all sorts of suffering in order to uphold what is basically a religious red herring. The evidence is pretty strong but will surely lead to controversy. Also, in his historical study Krakauer doesn't always succeed in separating the extremists from mainstream Mormons, although making that distinction in the present is the main point of the book. But aside from that underlying difficulty, Krakauer certainly focuses on modern extremists, as the Mormon faith is especially prone to increasingly extreme factions who are not afraid to spread murder and mayhem in the name of their peculiar belief system, including the polygamy doctrine. All of this leads to the case of the Lafferty brothers who claim that their brutal murder of a young mother and her baby, within their extended family, was justified by their religious beliefs and commanded by God himself. While Krakauer can't always stay impartial about the basic Mormon belief system, he does illustrate how religious extremism truly works, with spectacular and terrifying results. This is possible in any religion and any society. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-10-04
964855:US	52697458	R1781WF34LWK2P	0971394253	975323778	Why Do People Hate America?	Books	5	45	60	N	N	The Tallest Tree Attracts the Most Dangerous Winds	Despite some factual errors and occasional rampant PC-isms, this is a highly illuminating book written from outside the American sphere of influence. Of course it wasn't until 9/11 that most Americans were remotely aware that anyone in the world hates our nation, but that animosity has been building for decades. Americans' lack of knowledge of the outside world bred that sense of all-is-well isolationism that lead to people being shocked by the obvious. And despite what the President says (in his continual drive to gain votes and corporate support), people around the world do not hate us because of squishy concepts like freedom. They hate us for real and legitimate reasons, and we did not lose our innocence on 9/11. That's because we didn't have any to start with.<br />Sardar and Davies do a fine and informative job outlining the deep and diverse roots of worldwide animosity toward America. There's our military interventions around the world, including 50 years of closed-minded partisanship in the Middle East. We've reduced third world nations to wretched economic servitude through manipulation of the puppets called the WTO and IMF, and forced &quot;free&quot; trade conditions that actually only ensure the free movement of American goods. We force upon the world extreme versions of &quot;true&quot; democracy and &quot;free&quot; capitalism that don't even work here. American corporations are controlling what food is grown and eaten, and media conglomerates bury native culture under an onslaught of American entertainment. The authors cover all these dire trends with equal research and insight, although the chapters on culture get a bit whiny and repetitive. Regardless, it is not necessary to agree with all of Sardar and Davies' particular contentions to realize that other people have plenty of very good reasons to hate us. Don't be so shocked next time something big happens. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-09-24
968316:US	52697458	R2FHYFGJ6C54ZD	0742515532	700971768	Public Spaces, Private Lives: Beyond the Culture of Cynicism (Culture and Politics Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Democracy and the Knowledge of the Masses	In this latest cultural manifesto, Giroux analyzes how the current political focus on market-driven privileges and the elimination of everything &quot;public&quot; is affecting the education and culture of the masses. The result is a culture of cynicism in which the majority of people who are not included in the conservative elite are entrenched in public apathy, and disillusionment with a system that promises to do absolutely nothing for them. Giroux's recommendation for alleviating this social disaster is his specific field of &quot;cultural pedagogy,&quot; as espoused in his generally dense uber-academic writing style. In layman's terms, we should refocus education of the public to include a greater emphasis on cultural and social knowledge, so people have stronger tools for making themselves part of the political system once again.<br />Key insights here include the contention in Chapter 5 that modern conservatism (in politics) and neo-liberalism (in economics) are pushing a utopian vision of perfect and efficient markets, which is an ideology as extreme and as divorced from reality as fascism or communism, and may prove to be just as destructive. Also, throughout the book and especially in Chapter 4, Giroux uncovers the elitism in right-wing attacks on education and media and how they are meant to exclude the non-elite masses from social power.<br />However, things take a major wrong turn in Chapter 3 as Giroux analyzes the film &quot;Fight Club.&quot; This is a typically verbose academic over-analysis with an overload of obscure theories, tying the film in to huge social and political trends, then criticizing it for not discussing (and condemning) other huge trends and cultural effects. Giroux forgets that a film is a visual medium based on entertainment in addition to advancing ideas, and 90 minutes of audio/video is not sufficient for vast analyses such as Giroux's densely written academic thesis. Meanwhile, the book consists of five essays that were apparently written originally for different academic journals. This leads to a large amount of repetition throughout the book as Giroux makes the same statements (especially with introductory background and observations) for different audiences. But once you get past those problems, this is a very enlightening and insightful look at the dire trends in public society and how it could be destroyed by the current crush of private ideologies. [~doomsdayer520~]ntly written originally for different academic journals. This leads to a large amount of repetition throughout the book as Giroux makes the same statements (especially with introductory background and observations) for different audiences. But once you get past those problems, this is a very enlightening and insightful look at the dire trends in public society and how it could be destroyed by the current crush of private ideologies. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-09-21
971491:US	52697458	R1XS089L33CWKJ	0743227867	240511001	The Road to Hell	Books	4	14	15	N	N	...Paved with Bad Intentions	This rampaging investigative report truly uncovers the horrors of the international aid business. The uninitiated may ask how the process of helping starving people in third world hellholes and developing stable democratic societies could possibly be bad. Well it is bad, and Michael Maren writes passionately from experience. He has seen the pernicious effects of charity-based NGO's from the ground, both as a longtime aid worker in several African countries, and then as a muckraking journalist.<br />Using the then-current debacle in Somalia as a case study, Maren demonstrates that international charity has become a self-sustaining bureaucracy and a big business focused on profits, with little or no focus on helping actual disadvantaged people. The main problem is free food shipments, which put honest third world farmers out of business and attract fraudulent refugees, who have no incentive to work when they know that food and medical care is free at refugee camps. Meanwhile, much is stolen by local warlords and sold off, and homegrown entrepreneurs make a killing off the cash thrown around by huge staffs that accompany NGO relief missions. \\"Charities\\" are drawn to humanitarian disaster sites as opportunities for profits, government funding, and corporate relations; then split when things cool off and offer no hope of actual long-term development. The bad effects described above usually make the local situation worse, even leading to war in Somalia's case. Famines indeed have political roots, and NGO's literally destroyed Somalia.<br />Maren tends to lose his cool in the midst of his passionate reporting, falling into unnecessarily inflammatory language. He also tends to pick on certain enemies like the Save the Children fund and particular UN agencies. His coverage of the \\"humanitarian\\" (actually military) mission in Somalia is revealing but drifts from the book's focus into war reporting. But despite some weaknesses, this hugely informative and revealing book raises very serious concerns about the corruption of the inaccurately named \\"foreign aid\\" industry. [~doomsdayer520~]s very serious concerns about the corruption of the inaccurately named \\"foreign aid\\" industry. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-09-18
976029:US	52697458	R2XBA1E4UDVWUH	0226493113	344275957	Prisoners of Shangri-La: Tibetan Buddhism and the West	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Tibetology Deconstructed	This is a very unique analysis of how the idea of Tibet has been constructed by outsiders, especially those of far different Western cultures. Tibet has been described as everything from a backward haunt of crude barbarians to a paradise of pure thought and devotion. Lopez shows us that neither of these is accurate, and that Tibet is possibly the one location and culture on Earth that has been most heavily analyzed by outsiders who have never been there, or talked to its natives or leaders. Lopez tackles this subject from a purely academic angle, and his writing tends to get bogged down in esoteric theory (lighten up on the hermeneutics, sir), along with occasional egghead professor-speak like \\"Tibetan Buddhism was then constructed as the other of this other ('original Buddhism').\\"<br />Apart from those difficulties, we do get a mostly fascinating debunking of inaccurate Western pontifications about Tibet, like an exhaustive deconstruction of the West's misunderstanding of the familiar \\"om mani padme hum\\" mantra, or a treatise on why the European fraud Lobsang Rampa (not a real Tibetan) could be taken seriously. Of course Lopez has much to say about our modern celebrity Buddhists and the popular Free Tibet movement, all of which are riddled with inaccuracies. Lopez also gives us the true responsibilities and goals of the Dalai Lama, who is a worthy international icon but not necessarily the undisputed God of his people. Other books provide the background on Tibetan history, religion, and geography. But this book is a must-read for anyone interested in attaining accurate knowledge of the Tibetans and their struggles. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-09-14
979449:US	52697458	R3QDBG2DOEK0VJ	0807061794	713891571	The Media Monopoly 6th Edition	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Attack of the Libertarian Media	The cover of this book reports that when Bagdikian published the first edition in 1983, it was dismissed as &quot;alarmist.&quot; But he has been vindicated, as the book has reached its sixth edition and the problems he first articulated have become far worse in the ensuing years. The media monopoly problem is far from alarmist. It's alarming. Bagdikian deserves major credit for first publicizing the troubling trend of consolidated media ownership by huge mega-conglomerate corporations. Now we are down to six major media owners. Bagdikian proves that the media have been enslaved to the will of advertisers for decades anyway, as most forms of media make far more money from selling ads than from the members of the public who consume their offerings. But the problem is currently worse than ever as the focus is no longer the public interest, but boosting short-term profits, which has just about eliminated the search for truth or any long-term social focus.<br />The problem with this edition of the book is that the only current portions are the foreword and afterword, in which Bagdikian outlines where things stand today (that is, worse than ever). Otherwise, the main body of the book appears to be mostly the third edition from 1990. This leads to outdated information and conclusions that are a serious problem for such a quickly developing subject. Although Bagdikian is now more than eighty years old, this work would benefit significantly from a thorough re-write of the main text, rather than the piecemeal additions to the foreword and afterword that supposedly indicate a &quot;new&quot; edition. (Note that plenty of other more modern books have stolen Bagdikian's thunder and cover the issue equally well.) Also, Bagdikian is frequently guilty of attention-grabbing polemics and sarcasm while making his points. This is unnecessary as the facts can speak for themselves.<br />Regardless, this book is monumentally important not only for its investigation into inequitable corporate control of the media, but also Bagdikian's great insights into the ensuing political and cultural effects on society. This includes everything from the greater costs of goods caused by excessive advertising (a direct contradiction of classic capitalist theory), to the dumbing down of public knowledge of important social issues. In fact, the modern America media is not liberal, despite what close-minded politicians tell you. It's libertarian in its rush for total profit-driven focus and financial control of those same politicians. The general increase in social apathy and malaise among citizens indicates what is wrong with the mainstream media, and the culprit is the relentless and cruel rush for short-term profitability. Public knowledge is the key to a healthy democracy, and corporations have destroyed that for much of America. Worship your new corporate masters. [~doomsdayer520~]rate control of the media, but also Bagdikian's great insights into the ensuing political and cultural effects on society. This includes everything from the greater costs of goods caused by excessive advertising (a direct contradiction of classic capitalist theory), to the dumbing down of public knowledge of important social issues. In fact, the modern America media is not liberal, despite what close-minded politicians tell you. It's libertarian in its rush for total profit-driven focus and financial control of those same politicians. The general increase in social apathy and malaise among citizens indicates what is wrong with the mainstream media, and the culprit is the relentless and cruel rush for short-term profitability. Public knowledge is the key to a healthy democracy, and corporations have destroyed that for much of America. Worship your new corporate masters. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-09-11
982967:US	52697458	R1BY1FLAQ48OEY	0345444388	397145373	The Scar (Bas-Lag)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Mining the Possibilities	This is another powerhouse of the imagination from China Mieville, who certainly deserves the praise he has gotten as one of SF/Fantasy's most important new writers. This book is not as gut-wrenching or action-packed as its stupendous predecessor &quot;Perdido Street Station,&quot; but it still demonstrates the range of Mieville's raw talent, although his lack of focus is also evident. Sheer imagination is the key to Mieville's work, and the most imaginative feature here is the book's setting. The drama takes place on a floating city made up of thousands of ships tethered together, on which Mieville creates a highly unique society and cast of characters. Other outlandish feats of the imagination are a reverse fantastic voyage along the skin of a mile-wide monster, and a beach consisting of the rust of ancient forgotten machines. And don't miss at least two truly terrifying battle scenes. Mieville can also create intriguing characters. Winners here include the interpersonally bizarre Lovers and the supernaturally swashbuckling Uther Doul, although the action is hampered a bit by a pretty lackluster lead character in Bellis.<br />Sadly, this book also displays some of Mieville's inherent weaknesses, which are merely a function of having just too darn many ideas that should be reined in more effectively. The book can't quite justify its 600+ page length, and in the final third things start to unravel and run out of steam with just too many plot elements appearing and disappearing. The supernatural concepts that Mieville introduces are not explored fully (especially the intriguing possibility mining concept), while the conclusion really fizzles out after such an extensive build-up. However, this is still an immensely enjoyable work and China Mieville has a real future as one of the most talented new writers of the modern age. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-09-09
987853:US	52697458	R1W9CKGXSE714G	0803944756	8582403	Explication (Communication Concepts)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Unique Guide to Non-Physical Research	As far as college textbooks go, this is a quite informative and focused guide to performing research into non-physical phenomena (that is, not the hard sciences). The focus here is on communications research, which Chaffee convincingly contends is a science in itself, although it entails mostly non-physical concepts. This book outlines several useful techniques for modeling effective research into concepts that can only be inferred mentally, with techniques that would be useful in any of the social sciences or humanities. This includes figuring out exactly what the concept is in the first place, different types of definitions, operational procedures, evaluation, validation, and other steps and techniques that will help you conduct research in the most effective and consistent ways. This is one of the more unique, informative, and readable texts to be found within this discipline. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-09-04
992201:US	52697458	R1EOKCEXWXUB1I	0393057259	208585096	A Declaration of Interdependence: Why America Should Join the World	Books	4	8	17	N	N	The Benefit of an Outside Observer	This is a revealing examination of the American system by an outside observer who is not bogged down by native ideologies. Hutton is also a solid liberal in the European tradition, and in the process he delivers a very solid manifesto of modern liberal theory, of the type that American left wingers have been far too chicken to utter for a long time. Hutton shows us that American liberalism is currently so weak because of the consolidation of power by the new American conservatism, and its prohibition of all opposing viewpoints through empty patriotism and ideological extremism that is increasingly divorced from reality.<br />Hutton outlines the social and political effects of the modern conservatism, and things aren't looking too good in America from the European standpoint. The social safety net is being dismantled as everything remotely &quot;public&quot; is inaccurately condemned as socialist big government; while economically, long-term prosperity and innovation are disappearing under the rush for short-term profits and pressure from Wall Street to follow unproven &quot;efficient market&quot; ideologies. Hutton also includes interesting examinations of how the European system, based on far greater amounts of social goodwill and assistance than the US, has plenty of its own strengths that can benefit both Europe and the US in the long run. Europe's strengths should not be swamped by political and economic pressure from America to adopt the current conservatism<br />The only problems with this book are Hutton's rather repetitive and verbose writing, especially his habit of rattling off long lists of social and economic problems that give the impression that he is trying to boost his own nation's image. Hutton's proposed solutions to the dire long-term problems being engendered by unyielding conservatism are solid, but they are long-term only and he offers no answers for how political transitions can be made realistically. But this book is still an excellent example of how an outside observer can point out problems and weaknesses in the American system that we are unlikely to admit to ourselves, and a solid compendium of liberal theory. [~doomsdayer520~]e of how an outside observer can point out problems and weaknesses in the American system that we are unlikely to admit to ourselves, and a solid compendium of liberal theory. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-09-01
997891:US	52697458	R1EE8GTP0AYI0X	0618334661	847790169	Reefer Madness: Sex, Drugs, and Cheap Labor in the American Black Market	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Promises Much More Than It Delivers	In this book Schlosser promises an investigative examination of the economic and social issues behind black market activity in America (just look at the cover), but such promises do not materialize effectively. Instead of the in-depth manifesto promised in the prologue and summarized very quickly in the epilogue, the main body of this book is merely three essays about different types of black market activity. The first concerns marijuana, and here Schlosser comes close to a strong sociopolitical treatise on public vs. private attitudes toward recreational drug use. Instead, the essay merely becomes a dissertation on the ridiculous politics and inaccurate morality behind the drug war. Schlosser's ideas are certainly accurate, as the drug war is definitely a dismal failure. However, this subject has been covered extensively in dozens of other books, and Schlosser's short essay here offers nothing new.<br />The second essay, concerning black market migrant labor, sticks closest to the book's presumed focus on the economic and social phenomena behind illegal activity. Unfortunately this essay is very short and Schlosser does not give the amount of detail and in-depth research that this issue deserves. I propose that he write a full book on this issue as his next project. Problems similar to those in the marijuana essay also afflict the final portion of the book, dealing with pornography. Schlosser's supposed focus on the economics of that industry devolves into an unnecessarily detailed biography of the longtime porn kingpin Rueben Sturman. It's an interesting story but surely detracts from the book's focus.<br />Schlosser's writing has improved since his opus \\"Fast Food Nation,\\" which was marred by sarcastic polemics and flimsy conspiracy theories. The main problem with \\"Reefer Madness\\" is that Schlosser fails to achieve the goals which are loudly proclaimed on the busy cover, and which he promises to examine in the introduction. It's true that Americans (plus their politicians) publicly condemn but privately crave black market phenomena such as drugs and pornography. These supposedly illegal markets are the best examples of truly unregulated capitalism, giving people what they want efficiently, although supposedly free-market politicians try to crush them. These markets also make up surprisingly large portions of the American economy, with potentially major social implications. Schlosser promises to examine these issues, but mostly doesn't. [~doomsdayer520~]liticians) publicly condemn but privately crave black market phenomena such as drugs and pornography. These supposedly illegal markets are the best examples of truly unregulated capitalism, giving people what they want efficiently, although supposedly free-market politicians try to crush them. These markets also make up surprisingly large portions of the American economy, with potentially major social implications. Schlosser promises to examine these issues, but mostly doesn't. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-08-27
999597:US	52697458	RWWPPJISZDDDS	0812500709	674950171	The Night of the Ripper	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Fun But Formulaic Mystery	This is a rather predictable mystery novel that benefits from an interesting premise. The mystery is mixed with solid historical fiction concerning the enduring enigma of Jack the Ripper, in the London of 1888. Fans of unsolved mysteries in history can have fun with this premise, remembering the fact that Bloch advances a culprit out of his own sense of writing a fun novel. However, one of the reasons that the Jack the Ripper story remains so fascinating with enthusiasts is the cover-up angle, as many investigators (in many non-fiction books) suspect a person of high standing in British society who benefited from a cover-up. In Bloch's story here, the conspiracy angle is examined but the perpetrator turns out to be someone far less interesting. Also, the motive (the key to any strong mystery story) is weak and under-explored. Add to that Bloch's very formulaic construction of the story, as if he was working straight from a &quot;How to Write a Mystery&quot; manual, along with completely unnecessary cameos by historical personages like Arthur Conan Doyle and the Elephant Man. This treatment of the Jack the Ripper legend is a fun read but is not an especially strong example of the mystery genre. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-08-25
1000470:US	52697458	R2WJCFX1OT2N98	0679722033	912565168	The Emperor: Downfall of an Autocrat	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Eyewitness to a Strange History	This is a very unique book presenting a seemingly casual investigation of the last days of Haile Selassie's reign in Ethiopia. Note that this is not a history of Ethiopia or Selassie's reign, so prior knowledge on these subjects would be an advantage. Kapuscinski offers clandestine interviews with members of the Emperor's court and ministries, as they watched the slow and rather bizarre downfall of the autocrat. While non-Ethiopians often see Selassie as an enlightened visionary and Moses-like leader of his people, the reality was much different closer to home. Here we find an entrenched demagogue more concerned with preserving his power with little knowledge of the lives of his subjects. He surrounded himself with yes-men with the same self-preserving motives, and like any fading dictator he regularly purged anyone even remotely connected to independent thinkers. In one interview, a member of the court regrets sending his son to college, as the young man became infested with ideas that were not loyal to the Emperor, though they were probably accurate. Kapuscinski's anonymous subjects underhandedly point out their leader's faults while constantly heaping titles on him like \\"His Enlightened Majesty\\" or \\"His Benevolent Highness.\\" This indicates the leader's cult of personality and his employees' pathological fear of losing his favor. We then see the classic fall of an out-of-touch despot, as he was ousted in one of the weirdest revolutions of all time. This unique book seems like lightweight reporting at the surface, but ultimately offers numerous lessons in power and corruption, and Selassie's story offers many parallels for autocrats around the world and throughout history. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-08-25
1002085:US	52697458	R2PP11KPC0W19G	0394418697	246950315	Catherine the Great	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Solid Historical Biography	This long-lost study of Catherine the Great is a rather dry but certainly solid historical biography, of a woman who has often been misunderstood by history. The book does not contain very much coverage of Catherine's actual time as Empress of Russia (about half of her life), but that is material better suited to history books, and the personal aspects of her life had apparently gotten monotonous by that point. Instead, most of the book focuses on Catherine's life before her rule, as she worked her way up the ladder of European nobility and usurped the Russian throne. We learn that Catherine was actually a German girl named Sophia, from a family of minor nobles in a backwater German principality. She was used uncaringly by her family to gain influence in noble circles until she ended up in an arranged marriage to the heir to the Russian throne, and then found herself ruling this backward nation. Oldenbourg has a real flair for palace intrigue and the petty political shenanigans among the nobility that first swept Catherine along reluctantly, but which she eventually learned to exploit to her own advantage. We also see the backwardness of Russia during that era, as a disconnected nobility pathetically emulated the cultured houses of Europe with little knowledge of the awful, medieval lives of the common Russians. Catherine gets due credit for bringing culture and modernity to her adopted country, though not without earning a bad reputation as an corrupt seductress and self-obsessed dictator. (Oldenbourg debates such incorrect opinions but fails to tackle the inherent sexism of such historical condemnations.) Ultimately, this book can be a bit of a slog but paints a worthy picture of one of history's most powerful women. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-08-23
1003887:US	52697458	R1JLOTRAKESARG	188458537X	801830590	Writing Empirical Research Reports: A Basic Guide for Students of the Social and Behavioral Sciences	Books	1	38	50	N	N	Being Forced to Take the Bait	I'll let you in on a perfect get-rich scheme. Enter the college textbook market.<br />Mr. Pyrczak is certainly not responsible for the completely ridiculous nature of that market, but his book is a perfect example of the problem. College textbook publishers have perfected the art of manufacturing flimsy, inconsequential, and ultimately un-educational books, selling them at horrifically inflated prices, and encouraging professors to require students to buy them. This particular book is somehow required at my graduate program with extremely little merit. This appallingly weak volume doesn't nearly justify its twenty-plus dollar price tag and can be considered far beneath the abilities of the advanced students who are required to use it. Look no further than the introduction for proof. Pyrczak first admits that the book is not meant to be a style manual or a discussion of the mechanics of word usage. That explains how skinny the book is, but it certainly doesn't explain the price. Then there is the admission that the entire book is based on generalizations which may or may not be useful for particular academic situations. The next admission is that experienced writers will often feel free to violate any of the guidelines covered herein. See pages v-vi for all of the above in plain view, and then wonder why the book even exists.<br />Speaking of experienced writers, I and others like me didn't get to the academic levels at which this book is required without having known these &quot;guidelines&quot; for years and years. Thus, this volume is far beneath its intended audience - that is, those who are required to purchase it. For example, I am not impressed by middle school-level pointers like &quot;The importance of a topic should be explicitly stated in the introduction,&quot; nor do I need an entire chapter on how to create a title. This book should be sold to teens who are writing for the first time, and for about one-third the price. As for me, I've been reeled in and clubbed over the head, like the type of big dumb fish that the publishers assumed me to be. [~doomsdayer520~]clubbed over the head, like the type of big dumb fish that the publishers assumed me to be. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-08-21
1025436:US	52697458	R3F75I99CD5NOB	0767904850	60537966	The Siege of Shangri-La: The Quest for Tibet's Sacred Hidden Paradise	Books	5	19	19	N	N	To Conquer or Surrender	This is not just a book about exploring remote places, but the spirituality of exploration itself. The Tsangpo River's gorge through the Himalayas in southern Tibet was probably the last place on Earth to be explored and mapped. This was not completed, at least by Westerners, until 1998. This is due to the area's extreme remoteness and isolation, and its impossible terrain. Add to that the West's not entirely accurate glorification of Tibetan geography and culture. Here McRae covers both the Western explorers who tried to &quot;conquer&quot; the gorge, and the native attitudes toward surrendering to it. &quot;Classical&quot; explorers made many attempts until the 1950's when China &quot;liberated&quot; Tibet and closed it off, followed by extreme sports adventurers in the 1990's. Also in the 90's, two expatriates named Ian Baker and Hamid Sardar became adepts at Buddhist/Tibetan spirituality and explored the gorge from a completely different standpoint - that of a pilgrimage to Tibet's spiritual centers. Theirs is the most interesting story of the book, as the Tibetans believe that any landscape can only be truly discovered if one surrenders to it (the Eastern way) rather than trying to conquer it (the Western way). Sadly, all the hubbub in the pro-conquest Western press of recent years will probably ruin the gorge's extreme beauty and isolation. But with this book's great coverage of the cultural and spiritual dimensions of Tibetan exploration, we know that this paradise will continue to confound conquerors but offer rich rewards for surrenderers. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-08-03
1025782:US	52697458	R2S0QR30FA9WUU	0679420118	858814156	A Dangerous Place: California's Unsettling Fate	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Little Book About the Big One	This will make me sound like a bad guy, but the untimely death of Marc Reisner lead to the very undeveloped nature of this book. This was surely a work in progress when he passed away from cancer in 2000. The book has the potential to be an environmentalist powerhouse of investigative reporting, like Reisner's masterpiece \\"Cadillac Desert.\\" California in general offers the kind of story that Reisner mastered in the other book, as much of the state and its civilization are living on borrowed time and very unnatural social constructs. The state faces two potential catastrophes: running out of fresh water, and of course the inevitable BIG ONE - the ultimate earthquake that will ruin the state.<br />This book opens in Los Angeles, a megalopolis in a dismal location with zero natural advantages that can naturally support the population. L.A. would be little more than a dusty crossroads without 150 years of federal subsidies and gargantuan engineering schemes to import water, especially from Northern California. Meanwhile, that area has its own threatened megalopolis, as the San Francisco Bay area is just waiting for the big earthquake that will hit sooner or later. In addition to structural mayhem and wildfires, such a disaster would also devastate the water supply for both urban areas.<br />The problem here is that all of the above issues are covered convincingly, but merely in essay form with no notes or supporting bibliography. Reisner also did not get to the long-term financial and sociological catastrophes that would result from the disaster, which would have made this book far stronger. Meanwhile, much of the book is interspersed with a fictional account of the Big One that is mostly a doomsday scenario. It's a plausible story but indicates a lack of focus for the book overall. Sadly, Reisner was unable to deliver the powerhouse book that this subject promises, and of which he was surely capable. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-08-02
1028137:US	52697458	R3T0OO41PZ2L5G	0765342987	615549012	Kushiel's Dart	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Marked By the Gods to be Pleased by Suffering	The lead character in this epic novel uses the above line to describe her own lot in life.  Phedre is an apparently cursed orphan who is adopted by a mysterious nobleman and trained to be an erotic spy, gleaning empire-shaking intelligence as she services the wealthy and powerful of a renaissance kingdom. Jacqueline Carey has created a rather imaginative setting for this epic - a medieval Europe enveloped in an alternate history in which the far-flung cultural influence is Celtic and Gothic rather than Roman, while Christianity has followed a different course and developed into a set of sensual and erotic oath-making. Phedre is a very impressively well-drawn heroine, and Carey obviously put a lot of work into the creation of this deep and complex character. Phedre's two closest companions are equally interesting - the valiant but confused bodyguard Joscelin, and the mischievous but perceptive gypsy traveler Hyacinthe.<br />Sadly, the fascinating backdrop and intriguing lead characters are often lost under wave upon wave of unnecessarily complex writing. The story is centered in a France-like kingdom full of unbelievably beautiful noblemen and duchesses, surrounded by realms of crude barbarians, all of which are predictable fantasy stereotypes. Political shenanigans are enacted by far too many minor characters who blend together into sameness. As the story (very) slowly unfolds, Phedre works her way through repetitive palace intrigues and political treachery, while later she embarks on an adventure through a never-ending succession of exotic locations and strange foreign peoples. This is all mostly much ado about nothing, and only illustrates an author's exercises in impressively intricate writing, but without much reward to the reader as the plotline is stretched out to interminable lengths. The valiant war of freedom at the height of the novel offers much page-turning action, only to devolve into even more unnecessary palace intrigue at the close.<br />This is a highly intriguing novel that is fascinating at the surface, though with far too much detail that adds little to the overall plot and theme. Also watch out for the graphic descriptions of Phedre's assignations on the job, if you don't happen to be turned on by large amounts of masochism and bondage. But this epic is still recommended because of the great lead character of Phedre, who is surely a heroine complex enough to inspire many large literary epics.ghly intriguing novel that is fascinating at the surface, though with far too much detail that adds little to the overall plot and theme. Also watch out for the graphic descriptions of Phedre's assignations on the job, if you don't happen to be turned on by large amounts of masochism and bondage. But this epic is still recommended because of the great lead character of Phedre, who is surely a heroine complex enough to inspire many large literary epics.	2003-07-31
1034177:US	52697458	R14AFOBH17JZSA	0812508645	216137473	Pastwatch: The Redemption of Christopher Columbus	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Alternate History for Deep Thinkers	In this very insightful novel, Orson Scott Card takes the old &quot;don't-alter-the-future&quot; theme of standard time travel stories to a stunning new humanistic level. In the process he creates a powerhouse of the alternate history (AH) genre, and the strongest examination of the possible ethical issues behind time travel that you have probably ever seen. The start of the tale actually shows a future Earth where humanity is just barely limping along at the edge of extinction, as the result of millennia of war and environmental devastation. A group called Pastwatch studies the past through remote viewing in order to learn about what went wrong. The supremely noble (a little too noble) members of the project decide to develop a time machine to alter a key moment of human history - the landing of Columbus in the new world - in the hope of creating an alternate history that would have far less suffering and destruction.<br />Card forgets to explain how this group could exercise such great technological power in a ruined economy, and the non-historical characters don't offer much believability. This includes their ridiculous levels of wisdom and nobility (mentioned above) and their tendency to speechify rather than converse like regular people. The historical characters are far more believable, as Card shows his very impressive grasp of historical trends and personalities. This especially goes for Columbus himself, whom Card transforms into the cultural hero of the new altered history rather than a shifty profiteer and exploiter. On the other hand, the results of the Pastwatch project are so rosy and politically correct that the book comes to a rather sugary close. However, the true strength of this novel is Card's very weighty examinations of the real ethical and humanist problems that will result from the concept of time travel, at a high intellectual level rarely seen in the SF and AH genres. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-07-26
1037208:US	52697458	R231YU1X5HFYRX	0446529540	552279058	Futureland	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The More Things Change...	I was quite surprised by this book, because the blurbs on the jacket do not reveal exactly what is in store.  This is a very creative and engrossing collection of interrelated sci-fi short stories, and the key is the very strong African-American perspective. That's not really newsworthy with a black storyteller, but the real surprise is Mosley's unforgiving take on race relations in a dysfunctional future, although the commentary on racial matters gets a little heavy-handed at times. Regardless, in this future landscape, the more things change the more they'll stay the same. Technical advances and a supposed utopia will still leave minorities behind, even when the majority is equally brutalized by the technocracy. Some reviewers have claimed that Mosley is behind the times when it comes to modern science fiction, as he usually works in other genres, but that's not the case. His visions of a technological dystopia in the near future, as the result of total corporate control of society and the relentless pursuit of profits at the expense of human rights (for all humans), has been showing up in a lot if recent sci-fi and speculative fiction. Mosley's vision of total corporate dominance and social breakdown is both far-fetched and frighteningly possible, if current trends in real life aren't curtailed soon. But Mosley is also well versed in classic sci-fi, as his sense of creeping social dread and human restlessness in the face of technology shows a strong Bradbury influence. In the end of Mosley's nightmare vision, most of humanity is destroyed and there's still prejudice and hatred. The complete destruction of humanity by technocratic domineering and megalomania won't stop the worst strains of human nature. [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-07-24
1038269:US	52697458	RWG0YQAWEYRJS	0375509127	122882533	Adventure Capitalist: The Ultimate Road Trip	Books	3	67	78	N	N	Should Be Two Books, and Both Would Be Stronger	Jim Rogers has been smashingly successful in two different areas - international investing and international travel. He tries to tackle both successes in this book but unfortunately doesn't adequately cover either. His remarkable achievement covered here is his three-year drive (with his wife and some suspiciously anonymous assistants) around the world, knocking off 116 countries and 152,000 miles, along with all the life-threatening travails and crises that you would expect in so many hostile territories. He was also on constant lookout for international investing opportunities, and his most interesting assertion is that you learn most about the dynamics of any foreign economy by talking to real people at street level. That's opposed to know-it-all politicians and bureaucrats who make vast judgments on places they have never been and couldn't nearly understand.<br />The main problem here is that the journey was so extensive that Rogers doesn't have the space to relate an effective travelogue about all the places he visited. Entire nations are often described in a sentence or less. Meanwhile, yes/no pronouncements on the viability of investing in each location are tossed off quickly like afterthoughts. Rogers does impart some great investment advice here, like the contention that the next bull market will be in commodities (raw materials) rather than securities, most of the currencies in the world are collapsing, and that the surprise up-and-coming nations will be Angola and Bolivia. But otherwise, Rogers quickly dismisses most of the visited countries due to political strife. He also spends a lot of time on his soapbox, making vast pronouncements on how to solve the world's ills, most of which involve a simplistic belief in free trade (the phrase &quot;the miracles of international trade&quot; pops up once), and the predictable disdain for globalization's critics that we keep hearing from those with vested interests. Rogers fails to notice that much of the political strife he encountered around the world resulted from mismanaged globalization efforts.<br />Rogers should have written two books inspired by his remarkable journey. The first would be a travelogue and adventure story about the perils and rewards of death-defying travel. The second book would be a solid examination of worldwide investing opportunities and the futures of developing vs. declining nations and their economies. Both would be much stronger than this book that unsuccessfully tries to blend the two, but leaves both poorly covered.l strife he encountered around the world resulted from mismanaged globalization efforts. <br />Rogers should have written two books inspired by his remarkable journey. The first would be a travelogue and adventure story about the perils and rewards of death-defying travel. The second book would be a solid examination of worldwide investing opportunities and the futures of developing vs. declining nations and their economies. Both would be much stronger than this book that unsuccessfully tries to blend the two, but leaves both poorly covered.	2003-07-23
1040192:US	52697458	R164Z5I5NY4SNP	1860744338	236103769	Bob Marley	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A Very Passionate Over-Analysis	Bob Marley was clearly a lyrical (not just musical) genius in league with Lennon or Dylan, and it's about time someone did an in-depth analysis and homage to the words of the master. Kwame Dawes is just the man to do it. He's a poet by trade with a very lyrical prose style of his own, making this book a very enjoyable and pleasant read. And unlike Western critics who often miss the point of reggae, Dawes is a native Jamaican who came of age during Marley's most productive era, and even lived in Bob's neighborhood for a time. Dawes uses his homegrown perspective to extremely good effect throughout this book, showing us that Marley's work was not as \\"exotic\\" or even \\"groundbreaking\\" as Westerners usually thought. Instead, it was based solidly in the long-term cultural, political, and musical traditions familiar to real Jamaicans. Dawes also has an even-handed take on Rastafarianism, explaining that it really is a rather undeveloped belief system (even in the eyes of the Rastas themselves), but it lent great strength and willpower to its devotees, most notably Bob himself. Ultimately, Dawes is very passionate about his subject matter, especially in terms of the background and influences that shaped Marley's art. But when it comes to analyzing the lyrics, Dawes is often too passionate.<br />Around 80% of this book is dedicated to the lyrics, and the result is an often repetitive and worshipful over-analysis, as Dawes believes that Bob can do absolutely no wrong. On average, songs receive at least four or five pages of line-by-line analysis that is often overkill, maxing out with a very unnecessary sixteen pages for \\"Concrete Jungle.\\" Dawes often digs deeper into word-by-word coverage, and even syllable-by-syllable in \\"No Woman No Cry.\\" The problem is that his analyses rely on the unproven assumption that Marley actually put the utmost care into every single word as if he were a straight-ahead poet, rather than a songwriter who also had to worry about rhythms and melodies. Dawes' contention that every single aspect of a song's lyrics had the utmost deep meaning really starts to weigh this book down. He even assumes total meaningfulness in the pop/rock clich&eacute;s of lighter-weight songs like \\"Waiting in Vain.\\"<br />There is also regular conjecture and opinionating on the biblical or cultural references that inspired Marley, and as usual, their weighty significance. This backfires with at least a few noteworthy songs, like the strangely short analysis (just three paragraphs) for \\"Three Little Birds.\\" In the booklet for the Songs of Freedom box set, Marley is quoted as saying that this song really was inspired by three little birds on his doorstep, but here Dawes unconvincingly makes references to the Trinity with no evidence. Dawes is clearly qualified to tackle this analysis of Marley's art, but his lofty conceptions of constant significance in the lyrics often threaten to collapse under their own weight. Imagine if someone did an in-depth word-by-word analysis of Dawes' poetic works. He would surely appreciate the student's efforts, but would he necessarily agree with that person's opinions on every single word?  [~doomsdayer520~]s. Dawes' contention that every single aspect of a song's lyrics had the utmost deep meaning really starts to weigh this book down. He even assumes total meaningfulness in the pop/rock clichs of lighter-weight songs like \\"Waiting in Vain.\\"<br />There is also regular conjecture and opinionating on the biblical or cultural references that inspired Marley, and as usual, their weighty significance. This backfires with at least a few noteworthy songs, like the strangely short analysis (just three paragraphs) for \\"Three Little Birds.\\" In the booklet for the Songs of Freedom box set, Marley is quoted as saying that this song really was inspired by three little birds on his doorstep, but here Dawes unconvincingly makes references to the Trinity with no evidence. Dawes is clearly qualified to tackle this analysis of Marley's art, but his lofty conceptions of constant significance in the lyrics often threaten to collapse under their own weight. Imagine if someone did an in-depth word-by-word analysis of Dawes' poetic works. He would surely appreciate the student's efforts, but would he necessarily agree with that person's opinions on every single word?  [~doomsdayer520~]	2003-07-21
1044795:US	52697458	RBKBUGJL7X633	0789726114	384317528	HTML Goodies (2nd Edition)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Effective but Flawed Guide (Beginner to Intermediate)	This is certainly a very useful text you can use to teach yourself HTML programming code, but you can probably do better. That do-it-yourself focus is the true advantage of this book, as it's presented as a series of tutorials that are tied in to Burns' equally useful website (also called &quot;HTML Goodies&quot;), although the constant references to that site get dangerously close to advertising territory. You can disregard some of the reviews here by &quot;experts&quot; who complain about the low level of intellectualism in this book, because experts are clearly not the intended audience. Before this book I considered myself somewhere between beginner and intermediate, knowing some HTML basics, and the book has really filled out the gaps in my knowledge to the point where I'm sure I can now design a fully functional website. But aside from the strong educational aspects of this guide, the problem is Burns' writing and presentation.<br />This guide is quite poorly edited with regular typos, even in some of the specific code examples that are used to demonstrate real programming language. Meanwhile, some concepts occasionally pop up that are not related to their surroundings and are clearly out of order. Examples include the section &quot;What About That ? Mark?&quot; on page 221, and a badly confused section on the pros and cons of frames to close out chapter 6. Burns often tells you to &quot;recall&quot; concepts that are first described later in the book - references to JavaScript commands are recurring examples of this problem. Since Burns is a self-taught HTML guru from the early days of the World Wide Web, he admits that he disdains recent programming developments, and flat out refuses to elaborate on new code possibilities that are clearly easier and more useful than his methods. He spends distracting amounts of time describing tangential software packages (such as CGI shareware or photo editors) that are merely the ones he uses. And throughout the book you are subjected to Burns' awful jokes. He's a good teacher but he sure ain't a comedian. The effectiveness of this book in helping beginners and intermediates to help themselves mostly merits five stars, but the flawed presentation brings my rating back down to the &quot;average&quot; level.re subjected to Burns' awful jokes. He's a good teacher but he sure ain't a comedian. The effectiveness of this book in helping beginners and intermediates to help themselves mostly merits five stars, but the flawed presentation brings my rating back down to the &quot;average&quot; level.	2003-07-18
1051919:US	52697458	R3CR720DQPPR9Q	1740593421	687188837	Lonely Planet England	Books	4	35	37	N	N	The Travel Guide That's Cooler Than You	I will soon be traveling to England and plan to trek around the country for a week on as little money as possible.  I know that Lonely Planet produces the best kind of guides for this type of traveler - that is, a cheapskate drifter like me. I'm certainly happy I picked this guide up and I'm mostly confident in the data it provides. There's a treasure trove of information on how to travel cheap, especially in terms of bus and train transport between the major cities, plus inexpensive lodging - including hostels and even YMCA's and campgrounds. The problem with this guide is a general &quot;cooler-than-thou&quot; attitude toward tourist areas, with a real snobbish outlook on some popular attractions. An example is the Madame Tussaud organization, as their various museums are described as boring at least twice in the book (I've been to England before and I strongly disagree). Also watch out for the general &quot;tacky&quot; or &quot;dull&quot; label for many towns that cater to tourists, which makes you wonder about Lonely Planet's motivation for including them in the guide at all. In most cities, the restaurant and club recommendations do not seem like a representative sample, but just a quick list of locations that the LP team found cool enough to visit in a short amount of time. A lingering production problem is the quality of the maps, which are mostly dim in the black-and-white format and hard to read. But despite the occasionally condescending attitude, Lonely Planet succeeds in providing a very informative guide for the penny-pinching traveler.	2003-07-12
1054003:US	52697458	R3RR121AL9S6N4	0971394245	631609675	Abuse Your Illusions: The Disinformation Guide to Media Mirages and Establishment Lies (Disinformation Guides)	Books	3	39	46	N	N	The Finger-Pointing Self-Aggrandizement Club	We have reached the bottom of the Disinformation barrel. While editor Russ Kick says in this book's intro that it's easy to locate enough covered-up stories to fill out these compilations for years to come, I beg to differ. I am a big fan of the Disinfo team and all their efforts to bring the necessary attention to issues that have been whitewashed by the establishment. That makes this whiny and sarcastic collection all the more disappointing. To show I'm not a reactionary who automatically disagrees with the Disinfo political stance, you can see my reviews for this book's two superior predecessors: You Are Being Lied To (four stars on 01/01/02) and Everything You Know Is Wrong (five stars on 10/27/02).<br />This volume does bring to light many important issues, but articles that are not sunk by pretentious or self-aggrandizing writing are few and far between. Some of the best levelheaded entries here include \\"US Homeland Security...\\" by Ritt Goldstein, \\"The Lilly Suicides\\" by Richard DeGrandpre, or \\"The Flouridation Fraud\\" by Robert Sterling. Sadly, there are a great many articles that deal with incredibly important topics but lose their impact with atrocious writing. The terrifying \\"Invasion of the Child Snatchers\\" is sunk by Diane Petryk Bloom's sarcastic implications that the entire child protection establishment is corrupt, while most of the entries in the *Not on the Nightly News* section are swamped by flimsy conspiracy theories that could be debunked by a preschooler. This is a depressingly common pattern in this book, indicating a lazy selection process by the Disinfo folks.<br />By far the most annoying articles here are from writers complaining about how their books or essays have been rejected by major publishers, with the predictable conspiracy claims followed by sales pitches. A horrific example is \\"Unanswered Letters...\\" by April Oliver, who courageously revealed Operation Tailwind from the Vietnam War era, but here complains about her letters on the subject not being answered by major newspapers. Daniel Ellsberg, who was greatly persecuted after his hugely important reporting on the Pentagon Papers 30 years ago, is still complaining about it in two different articles here. Then there are some articles that make so little sense that they appear to be merely filler, like \\"Inside Science's Closet\\" by Richard Zacks, and the useless conspiracy theory attempt \\"How I Crashed a Chinese Arms Bazaar...\\" by Jakob Boeskov. And at all costs avoid the insulting \\"The Man Who Invented Normal\\" by Lucy Gwin, who claims that the battle against human disease is a forced conformity project by white males, and that Dr. Kevorkian (regardless of his other questionable ethics) is a eugenicist.<br />If you've enjoyed the previous compendiums by the Disinformation folks, there are still very important issues covered here, but these writers usually sink their own efforts. A bigger crowd of self-important and sarcastic finger-pointers will be hard to find. It's time for Disinfo to end this book series or get new editors.subject not being answered by major newspapers. Daniel Ellsberg, who was greatly persecuted after his hugely important reporting on the Pentagon Papers 30 years ago, is still complaining about it in two different articles here. Then there are some articles that make so little sense that they appear to be merely filler, like \\"Inside Science's Closet\\" by Richard Zacks, and the useless conspiracy theory attempt \\"How I Crashed a Chinese Arms Bazaar...\\" by Jakob Boeskov. And at all costs avoid the insulting \\"The Man Who Invented Normal\\" by Lucy Gwin, who claims that the battle against human disease is a forced conformity project by white males, and that Dr. Kevorkian (regardless of his other questionable ethics) is a eugenicist.<br />If you've enjoyed the previous compendiums by the Disinformation folks, there are still very important issues covered here, but these writers usually sink their own efforts. A bigger crowd of self-important and sarcastic finger-pointers will be hard to find. It's time for Disinfo to end this book series or get new editors.	2003-07-10
1054208:US	52697458	R20D3RVRQREKPT	0380761963	214265111	Ufo Crash at Roswell	Books	2	5	9	N	N	50 Years of Tourist Traps	I was the weak-willed victim of a tourist trap when I bought this unworthy book, during a pass through Roswell on a cross-country vacation. I found Roswell to be a really fun town, with a good sense of humor as the locals cash in on their town's notoriety, in a jovial tongue-in-cheek fashion. If you can make money off fun-loving tourists (like me) then more power to you. But I also noticed the hardcore fringe side of Roswell - the conspiracy theorists and unyielding believers - and that is the source behind this book. This volume is little more than a timeline propped up with old photocopied news articles, illegible military documents, and present-day interviews with senior citizens who are clearly sick of answering questions for the past 50 years. This is merely a scrapbook of &quot;evidence&quot; concerning a cover-up at Roswell, but you have to wonder how much evidence that doesn't support the author's thesis was &quot;accidentally&quot; left out. This deserves a second star because the author steers clear of unequivocal alien theories, and takes the stance that the evidence does not support the &quot;official&quot; explanations from the government. In effect, what else COULD it be? This is a refreshing stance but doesn't add to this book's interest. Other books on this subject may advance actual explanations into the Roswell incident, however outlandish. But at least those types of books investigate rather than collect, and are usually more fun to read.<br />Beware of this book's second edition, which is self-produced and appears to be manufactured at Kinko's, and is heavily overpriced at Roswell tourist shops. Mr. Schmitt and his colleagues are merely piggybacking on this handy cottage industry that should keep bringing in the gullible bacon for decades to come.	2003-07-10
1060435:US	52697458	R1U1PTJFZZ27AX	0345439902	913102079	The Best Alternate History Stories of the 20th Century	Books	4	31	33	N	N	An Enjoyable but Inaccurate Collection	This is a mostly enjoyable collection of innovative stories, but the title of the anthology is far from accurate. Of course anyone can argue about what the \\"best\\" stories are in a certain category, but the bigger problem here is that this collection is not entirely Alternate History (AH). This is surprising for a collection compiled by Turtledove, who of course is one of the great practitioners of that genre. This appears to be an editorial challenge as the publisher may have requested a collection applied to the \\"category\\" of AH, only to reveal that this is a very difficult label to define.  Some tales like Jack L. Chalker's \\"Dance Band on the Titanic,\\" Bruce Sterling and Lewis Shiner's \\"Mozart in Mirrorshades,\\" and others are merely time travel stories with the familiar don't-alter-the future theme. \\"The Death of Captain Future\\" by Allen Steele is a fun story but an inexplicable addition to this anthology, as it is straight sci-fi without the slightest hint of AH.<br />The stories that really are AH are high quality and make this collection mostly a success, but they only make up a distressingly small percentage of the book. In fact, the story of his own that Turtledove contributes to this book (perhaps suspiciously), \\"Islands in the Sea,\\" is one of the best and actually sticks most closely to the supposed theme of AH. Kim Stanley Robinson's \\"The Lucky Strike\\" is surely a classic of straight-up AH, while the most enjoyable story here is William Sanders' \\"The Undiscovered,\\" a comic tale of Shakespeare trying to put on a production of Hamlet with an adopted tribe of New World Indians. Rest assured that most of the stories here are good and even great, but the title of the anthology is not entirely accurate.	2003-07-05
1062261:US	52697458	R297QWQ0F1JCB1	067973743X	412433567	Bury Me Standing: The Gypsies and Their Journey	Books	3	14	19	N	N	Them Against the World	The present-day struggles of the Gypsies (or Roma, as they call themselves) are the main focus of this book, especially those of Eastern Europe. Fonseca has certainly paid her dues by living among these people who usually are no longer nomadic, despite the stereotypes, but lead lives that are depressingly reminiscent of refugee or squatter camps. This is due to their centuries-old marginalization and ostracization among the societies they inhabit. Fonseca examines the continuing persecution and hatred that the Roma face everywhere they live, due to their centuries of non-conformist existence and refusal to assimilate, as well as their talent for unconventional occupations and livelihoods. (In fact, their plight and lifestyle are quite similar to that of European Jews prior to WWII, or segregation-era African Americans). Unfortunately for this generally interesting subject matter, Fonseca's writing style is very inelegant and unfocused, with a severe lack of organization. Her coverage of her sojourns with various Roma clans around Eastern Europe jumps around haphazardly between locations and time periods. She also tantalizingly mentions Roma in other regions, like the US or Britain, but describes them no further. Meanwhile Fonseca's examinations of Gypsy history and worldwide social issues, from their exodus out of India a millennium ago to their unappreciated suffering in the Holocaust (called \\"The Devouring\\" by the Roma), are used merely as background to her sociological study, and hence appear awkward and undeveloped. Thus, the book tries to be a social study of modern Gypsies but only reluctantly veers into history and politics, leaving all these areas unclear and poorly covered.	2003-07-03
1072003:US	52697458	R3I6DR2H0R4DN8	0060175508	146221408	Act Now, Apologize Later	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Pass Now, Wonder Later	Man, this book could have been so much better. Adam Werbach is certainly a noteworthy member of the younger generation (of the 90's), around the same age as me. I'm also a member of Sierra Club. Therefore I've always been impressed by this guy, who at a very young age, was able to become president of an established organization with hundreds of thousands of members. Werbach has great innovative insights into environmental philosophy and activism that are true improvements over the old antiquated notions. He's surely a unique thinker with many great ideas. But sadly, he is not a writer by any stretch of the imagination.<br /><br />All of Werbach's good ideas and efforts are quickly used up early in this book. What remains is an unfocused, scatterbrained hodgepodge of disconnected ideas and points that are not explored. While claiming to write an activist's manual, Werbach merely delivers a list of environmental complaints and \\"inspirational\\" stories about local activists, with no surrounding context or big-picture conclusions. He makes up for it with a lot of sarcastic finger-pointing and attention-grubbing polemics. Werbach overloads clich&eacute;s like \\"we were building a natural bridge to the future\\" and adds several short stories that are just squishy kiddie parables, possibly written when he was in grade school. Most laughable is a sketch of a man called Bootsy in the land of Phunk who wanted to be the sun. (The esteemed Mr. Collins deserves an apology.)<br /><br />There are factual errors galore, like 1990 as the date of the 1989 Exxon Valdez disaster. In Section 3 Werbach decides to organize all the environmentalists of the world into five categories, all with derogatory names - Druids, Polar-Fleecers, Apocalyptics, Eco-Opportunists, and Eco-Entrepreneurs - then weakly encourages all to work together.  Werbach's takes on politics and economics are superficial at best. He comes close to major insights in his section on environmentalism and religion, but falls into triviality again. Pass on this book's sad case of arrested development, and wonder what could've been.Pass on this book's sad case of arrested development, and wonder what could've been.	2003-06-26
1073421:US	52697458	R3FZSA7O1YAWRV	0385503857	264457638	Oryx and Crake: A Novel (Atwood, Margaret Eleanor)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Unintended Consequences	This is a highly creative and fascinating novel from Atwood, and quite a departure from her previous works. In this great exercise of speculative fiction, biotech has run amuck and the worst unintended consequences have come to fruition. One man's megalomaniac drive to improve the human condition through biotech alteration has led to the downfall of civilization, with rampaging viruses and feral designer animals destroying a dysfunctional corporate-controlled society. Atwood is clearly using this far-fetched but still ominous storyline to comment on the biotech industry and the desires of a few profiteers to control the biological destinies of millions of people, plus the coming domination of human rights by corporate profiteering in general. Sometimes this commentary is a bit heavy-handed, but the story remains fascinating and chilling. Atwood's writing style is poetic and spooky, while her main characters are fully developed but remain intriguingly mysterious. This will prove to be one of the most haunting, stirring, and innovative new novels of the year.	2003-06-25
1078930:US	52697458	RJP01PR0DUZP2	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Deepest Darkest Africa, and Europe	This is a very informative and moving history on a mostly forgotten low point (among many low points) of European colonialism. Tiny Belgium and its unhinged, ineffective monarch King Leopold yearned for an overseas colony. Leopold got his own fiefdom in the Congo Territory, and drained the area of its wealth and people, lining his own pockets in the process. Of course the Congo itself got none of the proceeds, and even the nation of Belgium itself got very little as Leopold hoarded the money for himself and lavished it on mistresses and cronies. During this period the Congo became one of the most gruesome places on earth, as a command economy of ivory and rubber harvesting led to the deaths of millions of native Africans and the torture and hardship of many more. Hochschild ably documents this gruesome history and brings much-needed praise to the worldwide movement to bring attention to the Congo tragedy, a humanitarian effort that was quite unique for its time.<br />In the process Hochschild also brings necessary attention to the mostly forgotten heroes of the movement, like the grass-roots British whistleblowers E.D. Morel and Roger Casement, and the remarkable black American activists William Sheppard and George Washington Williams. However, in several places the author's historical research becomes bogged down in attempted character sketches of all the figures mentioned above, while the tail end of the book unloads a lot of guilt-tripping about how the world should remember the victims of this and other holocausts. This is already plainly evident to the reader, so such appeals just become tiresome. Another issue is Hochschild's frequent over-analysis of the book \\"Heart of Darkness\\" by Joseph Conrad, which was a fictionalized eyewitness account of these atrocities. But despite those weaknesses, this is still a moving account of the worst crimes of colonialism and their continuing effects on world history.	2003-06-22
1080348:US	52697458	R3CXHFT816KB0D	0743452615	680818412	Dangerous Visions, 35th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	47	49	N	N	Influential and Still (Mostly) Revolutionary	This classic anthology of speculative fiction (a deeper form that standard sci-fi) deserves the praise and influence it has enjoyed since 1967. These stories were indeed dangerous for their era, and most of them have proven to be well ahead of their time, retaining the power of expanding your literary horizons even today. Some of these stories are downright shocking - including the submissions from Miriam Allen deFord, Robert Bloch, and Carol Emshwiller. Others are bizarre to the point of great insight - like the stories from Brian W. Aldiss, Larry Eisenberg, and Norman Spinrad. Others have the great social commentary and human drama that most sci-fi writers would kill to be capable of - especially the submissions from Frederick Pohl and Howard Rodman.<br />The true key to this compilation is the editing work of Harlan Ellison, whose sarcastic and caustic personality shines through almost every page, even though he only wrote one of the stories himself. (That isn't self-glamorization, because his submission is an endorsed sequel to Bloch's story.) Ellison's introductions to each story combine the best in praising and roasting, and he certainly located many fascinating writers. Here we can see up-and-comers who later went on to greater things, along with intriguing unknowns who encourage where-are-they-now speculation. Another groundbreaking aspect of this collection is Ellison's use of afterwords by each author to comment on their own stories. This is usually successful except for a few cases of self-aggrandizement by the writers, and at least one attempt to explain a sub-par story (J.G. Ballard). Aside from a few minor clunkers, there is just one story that may have once been dangerous but is now a flop. That's the 70-plus-page novella from Philip Jose Farmer, which has aged wretchedly with an overload of creaky 60's politics and an unreadably faddish writing style. That's about the only story here that's not still capable of opening new horizons all these decades later.later.	2003-06-20
1090000:US	52697458	R3D3SDI2T6H0R7	0618134247	245124319	Dark Star Safari: Overland from Cairo to Cape Town	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Curmudgeon Drops Out	This journey by Paul Theroux constitutes a great achievement, traversing Africa north-to-south by land. The spirit of this journey is to escape from the constant irritation of instant Western communications, and drop out into the dark heart of Africa, where American \\"problems\\" like stock prices and political scandals are indeed insignificant. While traveling by rickety train, dilapidated car, or overcrowded bus, Theroux comes face-to-face with the real-life Africa. And as one of the best travel writers, his insights into real people and the real problems of their nations are always insightful and illuminating. In the process Theroux unveils the hypocrisy and unreality of the safari tourist trade that caters to obnoxious rich tourists while protecting them from the real Africa. His greatest revelations involve the horrific failure of decades of Western aid and charity to the poor African nations, which have made bad situations worse, especially through the enrichment of corrupt politicians and the encouragement of laziness and feelings of entitlement in the populace. Theroux's direct experience with these issues avidly illustrate this social disaster, and he recommends several solid books dealing with the phenomenon.<br />Unfortunately, Theroux's crankiness gets the best of him as the journey progresses southward, perhaps showing the sheer hardship of the journey and his increasingly dark political outlook after seeing so much poverty and misery. Common Africans that were previously described in friendly terms become beggars and street urchins by the time he gets to Tanzania. Theroux is greatly disappointed by his return to Malawi, where he had worked in the Peace Corps 40 years before. This country's deterioration inspires Theroux to take it out on the natives in a round of name-calling and condemnation - for example, he calls the president a \\"gap-toothed fatty in glasses.\\" Later he gives very one-sided coverage of the current political struggles in Zimbabwe and South Africa, mostly from the whites' perspective. Most telling is his theological debate with a young woman missionary in Mozambique, which he carries out politely and intelligently in person, but then bad-mouths the girl in his narrative. This book presents the details of an incredible journey and mostly offers rewarding observations and travel coverage by one of the best in the business. Just watch out for Theroux's emerging curmudgeon.th Africa, mostly from the whites' perspective. Most telling is his theological debate with a young woman missionary in Mozambique, which he carries out politely and intelligently in person, but then bad-mouths the girl in his narrative. This book presents the details of an incredible journey and mostly offers rewarding observations and travel coverage by one of the best in the business. Just watch out for Theroux's emerging curmudgeon.	2003-06-13
1094970:US	52697458	R92PGEM7XZ52P	055327449X	303683311	The Illustrated Man (Grand Master Editions)	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Illustrating Human Nature	Sometimes it's hard to remember that Ray Bradbury approaches the art of the short story in a very unconventional way. His collections of short stories are often tied together by common sub-themes or settings, although each story could also stand on its own. Such is the case here, though the running theme to the Illustrated Man collection is mostly an abstraction. Apparently the stories here are told by a man's haunted tattoos, but don't worry about that too much. The true theme holding this group of stories together is examinations of human nature and mankind's place in the universe. Bradbury's frequent use of Mars (and occasionally other planets) as a setting, with the obligatory spaceships and technology, is merely his method of creating alternate realities to bring human nature into bold relief.<br />Bradbury's classic examinations of the dark and melancholy side of humanity are well represented here as always, with his trademark poetic writing style and underlying sense of creeping dread. The classic virtual reality tale &quot;The Veldt&quot; is found here, with the typical misuse-of-technology theme presented in an unexpectedly haunting fashion. More evidence that the stock sci-fi themes are merely a thin backdrop can be seen in &quot;The Other Foot,&quot; a chilling examination of race relations; or &quot;The Rocket,&quot; which deals with the yearning of regular people to reach beyond the confines of Earth. Other winning stories include &quot;Kaleidoscope&quot; and &quot;The Long Rain&quot; which are haunting tales of how human nature can still undermine the greatest achievements of cold technology. So don't concern yourself with the typical sci-fi backdrop, and get in tune with what Ray Bradbury is really talking about.	2003-06-09
1096671:US	52697458	R3LA095CPOU3PE	0820319805	231482890	Nature and Madness	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Society is Immature	For those interested in studies of western culture's destructive relationship with nature, this treatise from Paul Shepard is certainly a rewarding read, though I recommend it with some reservations. Shepard starts with the Mother Earth concept and takes it to great psychological lengths, then applies this psychology to all of mankind. It's certainly a radical thesis, but it's worth thinking about. In what he calls variously ontogenetic regression, unaltered immaturity, and other labels, Shepard makes the case that humans have been torn from their true mother, the Earth, as the unfortunate outcome of modern civilization and social constructs. Thus, society behaves in pathological ways similar to what can be seen from children who are torn away from their mothers before the onset of maturity. Therefore, our society's attitude toward nature is perpetually immature, underdeveloped, and undernourished, with all the destructiveness and disrespect that results from such a dysfunctional childhood.<br />While this thesis has its various strengths and weaknesses that can be discovered by the reader, there's not enough meat to it to round out an entire book, even a very short one like this. Shepard's most glaring weakness is in psychology, as he offers little more than extremely basic Freud (with the associated sexism and dubious ideas on infancy and childhood), and then makes unconvincing attempts to extend this psychology to society as a whole. Meanwhile, Shepard's writing gets buried in academic dogma that is a real slog for non-professors who don't speak in non-stop technical jargon all day. Watch for arcane terms like methectic, kerygmatic, neoteny, or autochthonous; along with brain-drain sentences like \\"...amputate and cauterize pubertal epigenesis because they would further transform the relationship of the infant to its mother.\\" Add all this to Shepard's rather self-righteous speculations and you are in for an exasperating read, although the basic thesis of this book definitely offers food for thought.definitely offers food for thought.	2003-06-07
1097847:US	52697458	R1Z1OBAOY0W2WG	0345396553	798168467	Ilse Witch (The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Book 1)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	So What's New?	Terry Brooks is clearly one of the most powerful writers of modern fantasy, and he deserves to be. But this strongly written but ultimately predictable novel does little to add to what has already been done a million times. With the exception of a mysterious sci-fi city and some rather complex characters, there is nothing in this book that rises above the typical. We have exactly the elements to be found in every other fantasy novel - elves and faeries, swords and sorcery, mythical creatures, a battle between mysterious forces of good and evil, and don't forget the obligatory quest where everyone finds themselves and learns their true strengths. So while this book has everything you would expect, there is very little that you wouldn't expect form this type of story, and that's the problem. Then there's the especially predictable cliffhanger leading into the next book of the trilogy, which gives Brooks no reason to try to wrap up any of the plot elements in this volume, as he utilizes the typical trilogy format that can be seen from a mile away. Brooks is certainly a strong and talented writer, and if you're a devotee of fantasy in its most dependable and unchallenging form, then he has delivered the goods with precision yet again. But if you're looking for something new or unexpected, you're in the wrong place.	2003-06-06
1108544:US	52697458	R1OQ6NKWP4HTWI	0802130623	359469126	Acid Dreams: The Complete Social History of LSD: The CIA, the Sixties, and Beyond	Books	5	20	23	N	N	We Are Experienced	You will count yourself experienced after reading this completely fascinating book. Lee and Shlain deliver the social history of LSD, along with the historical forces that shaped it and were shaped by it, with both investigative integrity and a refreshing amount of hip slang. You can't go wrong with a book that combines chemistry, political analysis, and sociology with witticisms like \\"listen to a digger rap it down\\" and \\"that great Dionysian rap dance.\\" This book has it all: top secret government shenanigans, bizarre medical experiments, spooks and infiltrators, beats and hippies, radicals and revolutionaries, international drug cartels, outlandish conspiracy theories (with clarity and a grain of salt), rock n' roll and pop culture. It's all wrapped up in a stirring social history of the United States during the 1950's through 1970's, as the influence of LSD spread far beyond it's origins among chemists and CIA agents.<br />In addition to Lee and Shlain's completely insightful social history, they also deliver some keen revelations about the US government's shifting attitudes toward drug control, which are rarely based on sound science or medical studies. You'll learn that LSD was once heavily supported by the CIA as a mind control drug, but they disowned it when it hit the black market and inspired a generation of activists and free thinkers. LSD was then outlawed supposedly for public health reasons, but Lee and Shlain give plenty of evidence that these new drug laws were merely a tool of social control to hose down restless young people and nonconformists. The same could probably be said about most other drug laws. This is just one of the many intriguing revelations in this outstanding book. Not unlike its root subject, this book can blow your mind, simply by the power and fascination of the writing and investigation by Lee and Shlain. Highly recommended.	2003-05-28
1114015:US	52697458	RB0K42L53NO71	0465014909	962096979	The Culture of Fear: Why Americans Are Afraid of the Wrong Things	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Chicken Little USA	It's amazing that many Americans even have the guts to get up in the morning. In a nation where, statistically speaking, people have the most risk-free and least danger-prone standard of living in the world, Americans are ridiculously prone to being scared of things that have no reason to be scary. Classic examples are rising fears of crime and drug use, which are actually falling, and the curiously American obsession with illnesses and domestic threats that don't even exist. Barry Glassner studies this phenomenon with a great no-holds-barred investigative style and plenty of stinging social criticism.<br />As you can expect, Glassner's top culprits are corporations and the media. Guess what - there's money to be made from public panics and that's when the corporations move in. Pharmaceutical companies won't bother to tell you that the \\"epidemic\\" of depression in America has little or no scientific evidence to back it up, when they can make handsome profits selling the associated drugs. Meanwhile, in the media's obsession with advertising dollars, they are duped to play along with that trend uncritically. Also, ratings points are gained by bombarding the public with scare tactics about how everything is such a threat to their well-being. But we find that these tactics almost always involve isolated incidents that are portrayed as trends with dire consequences to all of society, plus \\"expert\\" testimony that is really personal anecdotes from propagandists and self-appointed moral watchdogs.<br />Above Glassner's treatment of those phenomena, he has an even better big-picture theory. Media and public fascination with insignificant and nonexistent threats allow us to evade painful examination of real root causes and social problems. For example, the media jumped all over Gulf War Syndrome, which has never been proven scientifically, to criticize the military establishment, after being too scared to criticize the actual war. We are obsessed with minor teenage drug use and crime so we don't have to face the deeper social conditions that lead to those outcomes, especially poverty and inequality. In this book Glassner does a terrific job explaining why Americans will always obsess over the symptoms while pretending that the underlying diseases don't exist.nd crime so we don't have to face the deeper social conditions that lead to those outcomes, especially poverty and inequality. In this book Glassner does a terrific job explaining why Americans will always obsess over the symptoms while pretending that the underlying diseases don't exist.	2003-05-23
1115243:US	52697458	RX09G02L0NS4	055357292X	804648943	Heavy Weather	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Hack This	Bruce Sterling has delivered quite a powerhouse of the imagination here. This book is a mostly strong mixture of cyberpunk elements along with textbook sci-fi storytelling techniques, in which real scientific research lies at the core of fantastical plot elements. We are given an environmentally devastated near future in which the weather has gotten extremely heavy due to the runaway greenhouse effect, with a team of cyberpunks seeking the ultimate tornado. Sterling has obviously done his homework on meteorology and the possible effects of climate change, as his speculations into potential heavy weather are both fantastic and plausible. This book also displays a very bright writing style with a real flair for outlandish similes and allegories. For example: \\"...kicked over cars like a giant child disturbing a convention of turtles.\\" Just beware of the rather annoying overuse of the word \\"hack\\" without much explanation into what this activity really entails in this future society. Alas, the end of the story is somewhat of a dud given the extensive build-up, and there is a completely unnecessary evil organization appearing incongruously during the climax. But the best aspect of this book is Sterling's disturbingly possible vision of a dysfunctional future caused by violent disruptions in nature, economy, and cyberspace. These are some disturbing speculations that offer a lot of food for thought.	2003-05-22
1119900:US	52697458	R29OK3HILGKR7F	0804111227	161921237	To The Ends Of The Earth: The Selected Travels Of Paul Theroux	Books	4	45	48	N	N	The Globetrotting Non-Tourist	This book is a collection of episodes, usually not connected, from six previous Theroux books published in the 70's and 80's. His travels in five different continents are highlighted here with varying degrees of detail. Since his other books describe distinct journeys from beginning to end, Theroux explains in the intro here that this book is meant more as a celebration of the art of traveling itself. He also has some snide insights into the art of travel writing, especially annoying authors who give only a tourist's eye view of the destination but don't bother to say how they got there. Getting there is Theroux's passion and the fragments in this volume usually show him encountering all kinds of intriguing characters and situations around the world, all while on his way somewhere else. That includes the good, the bad, and the ugly - and describing all of these with equal insight is Theroux's greatest strength as a globetrotting non-tourist.	2003-05-18
1124774:US	52697458	R2VTIP0XCHB3FO	0380973820	530346073	From the Dust Returned: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An Hour Younger Than a Minute Ago	The title of this review is a line referring to a reverse-aging angel that is just one of many strange and offbeat characters in this collection of vignettes from Bradbury. Like some of Bradbury's other works, especially The Martian Chronicles, this book is made up of inter-related chapters that could often stand on their own as short stories, but are thematically related enough to work together as an overall narrative. Also, as Bradbury describes in the epilogue, these tales of an immortal family of offbeat occult characters (constituting a more melancholy Addams Family), were written over a 55-year period then finally put together in this volume. This gives the book a rather disjointed feel, but you can also see the long-term consistency of Bradbury's storytelling techniques, with the creepy and melancholy undercurrents that are his true signature. An added bonus here is a very subtle and poetic narrative style. Therefore this is still a must for Bradbury fans, because while he has grown a bit softer with age, he still has all of his powers.<br />Note: Be on the lookout for editions of this book with the awesome cover illustration from the 1940's by Charles Addams, hinting at a could've-been collaboration that sadly never came to pass.	2003-05-14
1125757:US	52697458	R3LEIUAHY0R07V	0134425421	153616074	The Story of the Salem Witch Trials	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Hang Thy Neighbor	This is a very straightforward and unassuming study of the Salem Witch Trials, an event that encompassed a rather small group of people over a short time period, but continues to capture our imagination. It's the mother of all witch-hunts and amply illustrates how seemingly rational people can be swept up by mass hysteria. Le Beau's most interesting revelations here involve how dozens of people were tried and executed based on the circumstantial testimony of just a few teenage girls. These girls were proven to be influenced by the hysteria around them, coached by the authorities, and even afflicted with psychosis. Le Beau finds that the Salem saga was at its core an outbreak of social control arising from some minor political strife in the town, the rapidly changing social order, the desire to punish those women (and a few men) who spoke their minds and refused to fit into rigid Puritan social strictures, and closed-minded religious mania. Le Beau acts as an impartial investigative journalist here and mostly refrains from offering his own opinions and conclusions, instead sticking to analyses of theories offered by other historians. Le Beau's avoidance of taking a stand does make this book rather dry and workmanlike, but we are rewarded with an impartial study that we can use to reach our own conclusions. Some extra food for thought is the connections Le Beau finds between the Salem saga and other mass persecutions that could be called symbolic witch-hunts - like communist purges, anti-communist red scares, child abuse allegations, satanic cult conspiracy theories, and other types of social hysteria that will continue to torment the innocent in the future.	2003-05-13
1129096:US	52697458	R1M0HMJHIRPR7U	0609805363	574686299	Beyond Civilization: Humanity's Next Great Adventure	Books	2	21	25	N	N	Unsubstantiated and Disconnected Ideas Only	Daniel Quinn certainly deserves praise as a progressive thinker, and even as a visionary. But that doesn't automatically mean that his ideas are successful or plausible, as you can see in this book. Like some of Quinn's other works, this is just a collection of vignettes, each taking up one page or less in rather large print, and becomes merely a list of fragmented ideas with little substance. Granted, he does have some great observations on homelessness and people who can't fit into the system. Quinn's overall philosophy is indeed a necessary one, in that there are better alternatives to the current human civilization. But this idea has been presented much more strongly by other authors in the so-called \\"Post-Civilization\\" movement, such as John Zerzan.<br />In this book Quinn tends to make grand generalizations into historical episodes that he evidently has not researched fully, such as Mesoamerican cultures \\"choosing\\" to abandon civilized living. He often uses his previous fictional works as evidence for his theories, and is irritatingly prone to the \\"strawman\\" method - creating fictitious quotes or arguments that he can then shoot down with his thesis. When it comes to the grand concept of improvements to modern structured civilization, the only examples he can come up with are traveling circuses and his own community newspaper. The problem here is, neither of these were made up of people who were forced to make a modern living in a system from which they could not extricate themselves. This flimsy, unsubstantial book has some good ideas, but for better solutions (make that any solutions) to the problems it complains about, you are advised to look elsewhere.	2003-05-10
1129303:US	52697458	R9MFM72X7K732	1563898047	127072530	Swamp Thing VOL 05: Earth to Earth	Books	5	19	19	N	N	His Blue Heaven	If you've read the prior collections in this series and you thought things couldn't get any better, well you ain't seen nothing yet. This installment of the Swamp Thing graphic novel series contains just six issues from Alan Moore's run (#51-56), but that does include the double-sized blockbuster issue #53. In any case, quantity is meaningless here because Moore and his artistic team have reached the dizzying heights of their powers, unleashing the most mindboggling and gutwrenching stories in comic history. The basic subplot running through the series at this point is Abby's arrest for immoral conduct while Swamp Thing was off saving the universe, and her escape to Gotham City. As Swampy is searching for his true love, she is being held by the authorities in Gotham. In the overwhelming \\"Garden of Earthly Delights\\" (issue #53) Swamp Thing unleashes his full elemental powers on the uncaring city that imprisons his lover, and even temporarily defeats Batman in the process. Sadly, Swampy is supposedly assassinated by government agents, and finds his spirit floating in outer space. This is where Moore's imagination really goes into overdrive, giving us the highly unique and moving story \\"My Blue Heaven\\" (issue #56), a tremendous tale of loneliness and soul-searching, where Swamp Thing is blue in more ways than one. This episode is also another pinnacle for the artistic team, and much credit must go to colorist Tatjana Wood for her moody and unconventional work. By this point regular artists Stephen Bissette and John Totleben had mostly moved on - Bissette was only doing the covers and Totleben's only major contribution is \\"Garden of Earthly Delights.\\" The artistic torch had been passed to the outstanding team of Rick Veitch and Alfredo Alcala, who barely miss a beat in keeping the series' haunting and lovely artwork rolling. The only sad thing about this edition of the Swamp Thing series is that fact that Moore's run would soon come to a close.	2003-05-10
1130045:US	52697458	RVMN537HHUDFT	0312206674	949673612	Opium: A History	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Potentially Fascinating Subject, Wrung Out	The history of opium is a very interesting subject, as Martin Booth initially proves here. Dating from the earliest days of human civilization, opium use has gone through many stages of glamorization and condemnation, while entire nations and peoples have been held in its sway. Unfortunately, after a fascinating start this book wrings out most of the interesting aspects of this subject. Booth's writing shows the British tendency toward dryness and tedium, with an often anal-retentive obsession for small details at the expense of big picture conclusions, especially regarding the personal human effects of the use of opium and its modern derivatives like heroin. Booth makes many dubious generalizations about popular culture, crime communities, and ethnic groups - an example is the claim that American blacks from the south who emigrated to the north took up heroin en masse because they disliked the winters. Booth's very few glimmers of personality occur only when he indignantly criticizes some of his sources, calling one an ignorant bigot and another a pious zealot while quoting them. Most of the final third of the book really drags with tedious drug war reporting on the modern heroin trade. Other reviewers have noticed Booth's complete lack of footnotes and citations, and this is a real issue as his credibility is often stretched by opinionating and speculation. Overall, a potentially fascinating subject is made boring.	2003-05-09
1130512:US	52697458	R1DVW1KJR8TW3V	034542333X	147883919	Darwin's Radio	Books	3	2	2	N	N	At Least He's Done His Research	This novel has an intriguing premise, concerning a new step in human evolution. Greg Bear has definitely done his research into this area, as the book is overflowing with extremely precise biology and chemistry. Bear was sure to make the scientific aspects of the story plausible in light of the most recent knowledge, and that is what makes for strong science fiction. Sadly, the intricate scientific information becomes overwhelming and starts to needlessly take up space as the story progresses. At times you get the impression that Bear is merely showing off his own knowledge. This is all at the expense of the characters. First, there are far too many minor characters uselessly cluttering up the plot, while the major characters are superficial and underwritten, often speaking in either nerdy scientific jargon or predictable clich&eacute;s and platitudes. This weakness is also quite evident in some of the clunkiest love scenes you will ever encounter. Meanwhile, Bear's background storyline concerning the breakdown of social order is full of holes and is lacking in plausibility. In fact, plausibility is a quality he obsesses over with the science but not with the plot and characters. Overall, while it seems groundbreaking, few of the premises of this novel are original. The medical and scientific events are strongly influenced by Robin Cook, the breakdown of society arising from a new and rampaging virus was dealt with much more hauntingly by Stephen King in &quot;The Stand,&quot; and the concept of a new and improved step in human evolution is straight from &quot;Childhood's End&quot; by Arthur C. Clarke. This is worth reading but is not a stunner.	2003-05-08
1136865:US	52697458	R1PJ1DPCZH9E1B	1563897199	744215086	Swamp Thing VOL 04: A Murder of Crows	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Swampy Saves the Multiverse	In this round of Swamp Thing installments from Alan Moore (original issues #43-50, which includes the double-size anniversary issue), plot elements that had been developing for a year or more finally come to fruition. That would be a battle even bigger than good vs. evil in the final story of this collection, fittingly titled \\"The End.\\" Here we see the full apotheosis of Alan Moore's groundbreaking work with comic horror writing, a defunct style that he courageously made hip again at the time. And although the Swamp Thing series was thematically unlike anything else DC was doing at the time, Moore still ties Swampy's saga into the greater DC universe. John Constantine and a collection of minor and obscure characters associated with magic and sorcery help in the great battle for the universe. Meanwhile Swamp Thing allies himself with the heaviest hitters in DC's stable of occult characters, including Spectre, Etrigan (The Demon), Phantom Stranger, Dr. Fate, and the very suave Deadman. There is also a flawless crossover with the then-current Crisis on Infinite Earths epic, surely one of the great endeavors ever undertaken by a comics company.<br />One very interesting aspect of Moore's plotlines during this period is how Swamp Thing himself often falls into the background of the stories, as the focus is on the horrors around him, and he makes dramatic Lone Ranger-like appearances to save the day. Even in \\"The End\\" Swampy is a minor presence, action-wise, then defeats the force of darkness simply by reasoning with it rather than fighting. In this collection's first tale, \\"Windfall,\\" Swamp Thing only appears on one page, and the focus of the story is a psychedelic fruit that grew on his back. During this period of the series, things were changing artistically, as regular artists Stephen Bissette and John Totleben were often overworked or unavailable. Here Stan Woch and Ron Randall really make their presence felt, especially in the most tremendous story of this stretch, \\"The Parliament of Trees.\\" This concept is surely inspired by Tolkein, and in turn I bet that Woch and Randall's visual creations were an influence on the producers of the recent \\"Two Towers\\" film. By the end of this collection Moore and his great team of artistic collaborators continue to teach us about the deep roots of the Swamp Thing character, and he's not yet done learning himself.\\"The Parliament of Trees.\\" This concept is surely inspired by Tolkein, and in turn I bet that Woch and Randall's visual creations were an influence on the producers of the recent \\"Two Towers\\" film. By the end of this collection Moore and his great team of artistic collaborators continue to teach us about the deep roots of the Swamp Thing character, and he's not yet done learning himself.	2003-05-03
1141238:US	52697458	R1K27HTOJH7D1B	0060008806	464862171	Dot.Con: The Greatest Story Ever Sold	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Boom and Bust Book	This is a generally interesting investigative report into the boom and bust of the Internet economy. An unexpected bonus is the appendix, a morbidly fascinating list of hundreds of failed dotcoms that have lost up to 99.9% of their value, if they even still exist. Cassidy's writing style is mostly enjoyable and he can keep the pages turning. Unfortunately there are several underlying problems to this book that keep it from being a real winner. One of Cassidy's big weaknesses is hard economics - watch for the maddeningly splotchy economic history and analysis, as an attempt to explain the dotcom craze, of chapters 9, 11, and 21. Cassidy's sense of historical flow is awful, as he spends most of the book (and especially the epilogue) making very unconvincing attempts to tie the dotocm craze into a historical continuum with the end of the Cold War and the Sept. 11 attacks. Plus basic fact checking is suspect, with many examples that have been noticed by other reviewers. The ones I noticed most were the claim that the Altair computer, invented in 1975, was named after a character in Star Wars, which appeared in 1977; plus the supposed invention of the modem by two garage dudes in 1978. Cassidy fails to mention that this was just a particular type of modem technology, although it was groundbreaking. But it wasn't THE modem, the basic technology of which had already been around for quite some time. Also watch out for the book's many typos, such as &quot;Amber&quot; Pennsylvania as the location of CDNow. It's actually Ambler. Cassidy also criticizes many of the players in the story, with a lordly they-should-have-known-better attitude, but he merely has the unfair advantage of 20/20 hindsight. These recurring writing and editing problems significantly damage the believability of this book, which could have been a very successful indictment of one of history's most ridiculous economic spectacles.	2003-04-29
1142631:US	52697458	R2WDMWL7U0SI86	1563896974	628025598	Swamp Thing VOL 03: The Curse	Books	5	18	20	N	N	The Elemental Awakens	In this third collection of Alan Moore's important and groundbreaking run on the Swamp Thing series, both character development and sheer gothic American horror become the keys. During this period (original issues #35-42), Swamp Thing learns that he is an elemental spirit in true communion with the plant kingdom. This would become monumentally important to the further development of the character. Moore was tackling both social issues and horror devices at this point, and he was delivering tremendous plotlines in all areas. There are werewolves, vampires, and zombies appearing in the series during this stretch, but this is not cheap slasher fare but strong and innovative literary horror writing. On the social commentary side, the first two installments here, \\"The Nukeface Papers Parts I and II\\" tackle chemical and nuclear dumping. Moore dives into women's issues quite believably in \\"The Curse\\" (an extreme rarity in comics even today), while \\"Southern Change\\" and \\"Strange Fruit\\" are very disturbing examinations of slavery and racism in the Deep South. This edition of the Swamp Thing series does not contain any written introductions, but there is a gallery of individual covers featuring the always amazing art of Stephen Bissette and John Totleben. For some reason only four of the eight relevant covers are included, and the withholding of cover art is an overall disappointment in this series of graphic novels. However, that is ultimately a minor concern as the incredible work of Moore, Bissette, Totleben, and their other important colleagues has the power to blow the minds of readers of any kind of fiction.	2003-04-28
1142792:US	52697458	R1N5S96EQEQ2VG	0394703170	962910322	Anti-Intellectualism in American Life	Books	4	27	35	N	N	Book Smarts vs. Hard Knocks	This is Hofstadter's study of trends in academic and social thought up to the 1950's, and it still deserves praise at a general level even though many of the particulars are no longer relevant. It's unfair to say that a book published way back in 1963 is outdated in the present day, so this can best be seen as a period piece, with a social history up to the point of writing. So it does function as a useful look at what was happening intellectually in the 1950's and early 60's.<br />Hofstadter's subject matter is the unique American disdain for intellectuals and eggheads - a term he actually uses several times, quite surprisingly for such an academic work. American folklore glamorizes the self-made man who conquers the challenges of nature, educating himself with experience - the school of hard knocks - as opposed to the isolated and condescending intellectual who has book smarts but no experience. At the time of writing, the end of the McCarthyist era, anti-intellectualism was especially strong and Hofstadter examines the history of this always shifting issue. He also makes the important distinction between intellectualism and intelligence. Folks usually distrust the former but still respect the latter. Some of Hofstadter's examinations seem highly irrelevant today, like the role of intellectualism in farming or organized labor, but his coverage of issues in public education (including the perennial evolution debate) is depressingly familiar. It seems some things never change.<br />The writing style is very academic, and dare I say intellectual, so it can be a struggle getting through Hofstadter's obscure issues and references that were more relevant back in 1963. However his political stance is very strong and levelheaded, and his examination of McCarthyism is surprisingly lucid. The only overall problem with this book is that Hofstadter keeps the anti-intellectualism issue at the academic or social-discourse level. There is no coverage of the effects of anti-intellectualism on real people and real social problems, as the fear and hatred of knowledge that was present both then and now can have very unfortunate effects for culture and society.lectualism on real people and real social problems, as the fear and hatred of knowledge that was present both then and now can have very unfortunate effects for culture and society.	2003-04-28
1146961:US	52697458	R2UQCGLPBYWX98	0679742395	470024563	Lands of Charm and Cruelty: Travels in Southeast Asia, 1st Vintage Departures	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Charming People, Cruel Regimes	This is a fascinating book covering lands and peoples that get little notice in the West. Stan Sesser does not give us a touristy travelogue, but heavy-duty investigative reporting into the darker sides of these little known countries of Southeast Asia. His five long essays in this book cover Singapore, a bizarre construct of communist capitalism; Laos, a country that remains friendly and resilient even after a few centuries of being used violently as a pawn by larger empires; Cambodia, a land of strange politics where the genocidal Khmer Rouge have been welcomed as possible saviors into the modern regime; Burma, a potentially prosperous nation managed with horrific incompetence by paranoid and xenophobic hardliners; and finally Borneo (specifically the portion of that island controlled by Malaysia), which offers a chilling lesson in environmental devastation. It would have been nice to see similar coverage of Vietnam and Thailand, but there are only so many places Sesser can cover so strongly in one book. Sesser's main theme in his coverage is indeed charm vs. cruelty, as in these nations he has encountered some of the friendliest peoples and cultures in the world, which are being oppressed by the world's harshest regimes. While there have been many political developments since this book was written, especially in Cambodia, Sesser still offers many valuable lessons in the histories and social dynamics of these nations. Instead of a happy tourist diary of scenery and monuments, we get both the light and the dark of Southeast Asia in the most informative and enlightening ways.	2003-04-24
1150208:US	52697458	R9T9TX7TQJIEB	0684865793	881390122	Seeing in the Dark : How Backyard Stargazers Are Probing Deep Space and Guarding Earth from Interplanetary Peril	Books	5	10	10	N	N	...stargazer fall from the sky	This is a very unique and enlightening book about how much amateurs can enjoy and contribute to the science of astronomy. Since there is so much to observe in the universe, amateurs often spot phenomena that are missed by the professionals, and are aided by their love of astronomy as a personal passion rather than a job. In fact, there are growing cases of the professionals teaming up with amateurs for large projects. Astronomy is also probably the only science in which amateurs can obtain equipment almost as powerful as that used by the pros.<br />Ferris includes many interesting character sketches of noteworthy amateurs who have made real contributions to the astronomy of science, indicating how many different types of people from all walks of life can share these passions. The structure of this book is very rewarding as Ferris covers in great detail the full realm of possibilities for the amateur, from unexpected surprises right here in the solar system to the extreme cosmology of quasars and galactic superclusters. Just watch out for a few cases of cloying sentimentality at the conclusion of some chapters. One sappy example of the children-are-the-future variety closes chapter 9; while Ferris mangles the history of the Aztecs and Mayans in Chapter 8. The absence of scientific illustrations is another difficulty.<br />However, the day is saved by Ferris' everyman writing style that can encourage the interest of all people, and his appendices are incredibly useful to amateurs from beginner to expert. This book has succeeded for me personally, as Ferris has encouraged me to reacquaint myself with a lost childhood passion. A telescope purchase lies in my near future.	2003-04-22
1152844:US	52697458	R35TCCY21FT8HO	0930289544	971182877	Swamp Thing Vol. 2: Love and Death	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Shush Your Cyanicisms	I can't take credit for the title of this review. That's a line uttered by the incongruously adorable guest character Pog in this volume of the Swamp Thing series. This is the second collection of the brilliant run by Alan Moore. This edition is a little bigger than the others in the series, as it contains seven original Swamp Thing issues (#28-34) but also the double-sized 1985 Annual issue. Due to the very high quality of the Swamp Thing series, especially in terms of art, the plotlines got a little jumbled during this period. As described in the very cool introduction by Neil Gaiman, regular artists Stephen Bissette and John Totleben were unable to complete all the intricate artwork for each issue on time, especially with the addition of the Annual. So &quot;fill-in&quot; stories had to be used to relieve the deadline pressure, and guest artists were utilized. Much credit goes to Shawn McManus for contributing two issues during this period, including the bizarre and whimsical &quot;Pog,&quot; which is Moore's very unusual tribute to Walt Kelly's original swamp denizen Pogo. In this run of Swamp Thing installments we are still learning more about Swamp Thing's origins and abilities (as he is himself), and getting much closer to the Abby character, who is surely one of the most intriguing and bewitching women in comics history. Moore even brilliantly incorporates a reprint of Swamp Thing's first appearance in the House of Secrets series from back in 1972, deftly clearing up some kinks in the character's continuity. The most amazing story here appears as the last installment, &quot;Rites of Spring&quot; from issue #34, a tremendous poetic composition made all the more incredible by the art of Bissette and Totleben, in which Swampy and Abby find true earthly love. And impossible as it might be to believe, the series got even better after this.	2003-04-19
1154070:US	52697458	R1E353RO62EC2T	0618164723	392143634	Fat Land: How Americans Became the Fattest People in the World	Books	5	79	87	N	N	Is Gluttony Still a Sin?	Here Greg Critser lays out the appalling and well-known statistics on obesity in America. In recent years the numbers of overweight people have ballooned alarmingly, along with all of the associated health problems. These horrific increases are not natural and also cannot be explained easily. Critser, formerly overweight himself, makes many keen observations in this book about the several different causes of the American fat epidemic. There are economic causes, such as the increased use of cheaper but more fattening artificial sweeteners in food manufacturing, or the relentless push of the fast food and snack industries to increase market share. Cultural influences include the current politically correct acceptance of the overweight (actually a mortal fear of hurting someone's feelings), the popularity of baggy fashions, and even the media fascination with J. Lo's.... There are even some religious influences - see the title of this review. Critser's greatest achievement here is his bold stance on the class issues behind the obesity epidemic. Poor people (of any race) are far more prone to being overweight, as healthy foods and exercise programs are too expensive, and many poor people can't even get simple exercise outdoors due to fears of crime. The politically correct aversion to discussing class issues in any way breeds a real sense of denial about these problems.  Critser studies all these troublesome trends in very enjoyable and often brutally honest ways, holding no punches as he describes the dire consequences for American society. Beware that some of Critser's scientific coverage gets bogged down in statistical overload, while popular culture is his obvious weak point - like his disastrous take on hip-hop fashions in Chapter 3. But Critser definitely points out the issues that America should stop ignoring, and has some very good potential solutions to the epidemic. Critser also succeeded in encouraging me to stop lying around reading this book and to go out and exercise. Good thing this book is short and to the point.nd exercise. Good thing this book is short and to the point.	2003-04-18
1155462:US	52697458	R345G3CJ6R5ZZ7	0679777601	110957403	Confucius Lives Next Door: What Living in the East Teaches Us About Living in the West	Books	4	31	34	N	N	Entertaining but Superficial Cross-Cultural Study	This is a mostly entertaining and enlightening study from Reid, a foreign correspondent who has lived in Japan and traveled throughout Asia. Reid's concern is not the economic success of East Asia, but what he calls the \\"social miracle.\\" This would be the great civility, politeness, high educational standards, low crime, and all-around successful social stability of Eastern Asian nations. Reid cites the deep cultural influences of Confucianism as the key to this success. Examples are the Confucian ideals of community, shame, and encouragement, which all contrast directly with the Western ideals of individuality, guilt, and punishment. Reid delivers these revelations in a very enlightening fashion and his writing is quite enjoyable, especially when talking about his Tokyo neighbor, the immensely polite and courteous Matsuda-san.  However, Reid also learns that the most basic Confucian tenets of hard work and virtue are also core Western tenets, and that the West would be greatly improved by a return to those values. The main problem here is Reid's quite superficial interpretations of both Eastern and Western societies - he often talks like a sociologist but clearly isn't. In Japan especially, Reid probably saw mostly the politeness that the natives save for visitors, with little or no direct experience of real social problems. The book ends with very flimsy solutions, mostly concerning abstract concepts like morality, for the West to integrate Eastern concepts to everyone's social benefit. So beware of these superficialities in this otherwise enjoyable study of cultures that are both vastly different, but more alike than you might think.	2003-04-17
1158323:US	52697458	R2JV4KNNWBEFAH	0930289226	50556715	Swamp Thing Vol. 1: Saga of the Swamp Thing	Books	5	78	83	N	N	The New Age in Graphic Horror	I was just a junior high school comic book freak when Alan Moore took over the writing duties on the Swamp Thing series. I can clearly remember that even back then the comics world was abuzz with the incredible new realms that Moore and his collaborators were opening up. In an unusual fashion, this new ground was broken on a tired old series, as the Swamp Thing title was moribund and probably headed for cancellation. It's quite surprising that Moore was given free rein to completely reinvent this established character, and in the process he both proved himself as one of the strongest writers in the field, and sent the comics world in new and darker directions that are still being felt today.<br />Moore makes use of the best methods of horror writing, and the stupendous artwork of Stephen Bissette and John Totleben accentuate the dark feel of the storylines and send the Swamp Thing series to new heights of terror. Much credit should be given to colorist Tatjana Wood as well. In this volume, check out the artists' very groundbreaking (for the time) use of frames, placement, and coloring to accentuate the psychological horror of the story. One of my favorite examples of this can be found on page 27 here, with the accented focus on the crazed eye of the villain Floronic Man. In fact, this initial volume highlights Moore's intentional connection with the standard comic universe as well, with creative reintroductions of both Floronic Man and Etrigan (Jack Kirby's Demon), who had both been little heard from previously, plus a cameo appearance by the Justice League of America.<br />This early in Moore's run, the gutwrenching plotlines were still building up steam, and the subsequent volumes of this series really deliver the goods. The most haunting and rewarding installments here are the trilogy that are listed as Books Five through Seven (or Swamp Thing 25-27 in their original form), which feature disturbing turns by troubled kids with connections to the dark side. This graphic novel series from DC constitutes some of the most tremendous works of art and writing in comics history, and this first volume easily shows what all the fuss was about. Whether you're new or re-experiencing the best original comics of your past, prepare to be blown away.graphic novel series from DC constitutes some of the most tremendous works of art and writing in comics history, and this first volume easily shows what all the fuss was about. Whether you're new or re-experiencing the best original comics of your past, prepare to be blown away.	2003-04-15
1159648:US	52697458	R1WUL0V7WJVPWE	0803261705	956476909	Black Elk Speaks: Being the Life Story of a Holy Man of the Oglala Sioux, Twenty-First Century Edition	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Valuable Biographical and Historical Document	Black Elk of the Ogallala Sioux (or Lakota, their real name) led quite an important life among his people. He was present at Custer's Last Stand and the Wounded Knee Massacre, and even toured Europe with Buffalo Bill. John G. Neihardt has given us this very important life story as told by Black Elk himself. The saga of Black Elk and his people during their final years of freedom is very important from a biographical and historical standpoint. Contrary to popular opinion, this book is not really a treatise on Native American religion, as it is only Black Elk's personal story, though there is much valuable material on spirituality as he saw it. His many messianic visions are described in great detail. These would be looked on by Westerners as fever-induced dreams, but they still had great significance in Black Elk's life and the fate of his people. Also interesting are his tales of working as a medicine man and curing sick people. Instead of dismissing such tales, we should look on them as great examples of the power of positive thinking, not to mention homeopathic remedies. There has always been some concern about how much Neihardt altered the story to fit Western writing methods, with possible losses to Black Elk's true narrative. But one of the great modern Native American activists, Vine Deloria, gives his endorsement in the new introduction. While not quite the compendium of spiritual knowledge that many people think it is, this is still an extremely valuable and enlightening life story of a man who has much to teach us.	2003-04-14
1162776:US	52697458	R37XSGFKR8NT23	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Superhero Soap Opera	Watchmen was a groundbreaker when it first appeared as a limited series back in 1986-87. Alan Moore got back down to Earth after his incredible headtripping work on Swamp Thing, and here deals with the private lives of superheroes. In this saga the heroics of the main characters are merely a vague backdrop, while the everyday relationships that they share with other humans are the core of the story. Not unlike the Uncanny X-Men overhaul in the mid-70's, the Watchmen series presents very human &quot;heroes&quot; with very human problems, in a real society that has ambiguous opinions about costumed heroes and villains. Insightfully, Moore adds corporate and governmental manipulation of heroes to the mix as well. A key part of the Watchmen saga is the traditionalist artwork of Dave Gibbons, with a no-nonsense and basic construction of the pages. There is not a single non-rectangular frame in the entire Watchmen saga, and Gibbons' retro style adds to the human feeling of the story. The only weaknesses here include heavy 80's-style Cold War paranoia as the conflict behind the story, which bogs the story down with political moralizing that is getting a bit outdated. Meanwhile, in graphic novel form, the story drags toward soap opera territory in several spots, as the suspense was constructed to work better in the form of twelve separate issues originally. Even so, Watchmen still deserves to be treated as a classic in the art of graphic storytelling.	2003-04-11
1165297:US	52697458	R37APHV8BECWU4	0684854678	275267442	The Noonday Demon: An Atlas of Depression	Books	4	39	47	N	N	Vastly Important / Vastly Overwritten	I had to get ready for this book. I've dealt with medium-strength depression for most of my life and have been very closely affected by suicide, so I bought Solomon's book the first time I heard of it. However, I made the purchase a year ago and simply looked at this book sitting on my coffee table for an entire year before finally reading it. Apparently I had to make myself ready for it. This is an extremely important opus on depression from the point of view of the sufferer, as Solomon is, with the personal narratives interspersed with important scientific background that does not become didactic or professionally detached. Solomon's major achievement here is to illustrate how many forms depression takes and how many different types of people have to deal with the illness. It is both biological and psychological to varying degrees. We are unlikely to see a universal cure to an illness that has extremely personal causes and effects, no matter what the psychology or pharmaceutical establishments say.<br />The problem with this book is that is badly overwritten and often extremely self-indulgent. Solomon has the habit of going on and on and on (and still on) about his own depressive episodes and breakdowns, especially in the interminable chapter 2. He frequently interrupts other less-personal portions of the book with more of the same, including chapters 8 and 10, which are otherwise interesting treatments of the history of scientific thought about depression and political attitudes toward treatment. Solomon has every right to tell his personal story, because it is the backbone of the book, but there is a fine line between self-awareness and self-absorption. One good side effect of depression is self-awareness, as you yearn to understand what's going on in your own mind. Believe me, I know. But Solomon has moved into pathological self-absorption and obsession, which are probably not helping his personal situation. Solomon's obsession with victimhood has a negative impact on large portions of this book. The same goes for many of his interview subjects. A related issue is Solomon's troubling pro-medication stance, as he has no trouble admitting (or bragging) that he takes 12 pills a day and may continue for the rest of his life.<br />A general overall issue with this book is Solomon's longwinded overwriting, with no indication whatsoever of an editor. Simply piling on gigantic amounts of data and anecdotes do not necessarily strengthen points that were made more simply a long time before. Even with its many weaknesses, this is still an extremely important book, and may go a long way toward improving the public's perceptions of depression. But future editions would be very well served if they were significantly edited and condensed.pact on large portions of this book. The same goes for many of his interview subjects. A related issue is Solomon's troubling pro-medication stance, as he has no trouble admitting (or bragging) that he takes 12 pills a day and may continue for the rest of his life.<br />A general overall issue with this book is Solomon's longwinded overwriting, with no indication whatsoever of an editor. Simply piling on gigantic amounts of data and anecdotes do not necessarily strengthen points that were made more simply a long time before. Even with its many weaknesses, this is still an extremely important book, and may go a long way toward improving the public's perceptions of depression. But future editions would be very well served if they were significantly edited and condensed.	2003-04-09
1169010:US	52697458	R1Y8BZ60K99JVA	1571312234	103055360	The Necessity of Empty Places	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Why People Should Be Outdoors	This book is an enjoyable mix of travelogue and environmental philosophy, but the travelogue portion is more limited than it seems at first glance. A few chapters describe Gruchow's visits to interestingly empty places in Minnesota and Nebraska, but most of the rest of the book deals with two backpacking trips in the mountains of Wyoming. In each chapter Gruchow's writing evolves quickly from a scenery-based travelogue to soul searching and very in-depth musings on mankind's place in nature. The book essentially becomes a series of essays on why people have become disconnected from nature in the modern world, and should spend far more time in the empty spaces that Gruchow enjoys visiting. His thoughts on these matters are deeply philosophical with a real talent for big-picture analysis on the state of human society. Some great examples are Gruchow's use of the population distribution of robins to describe how corporate America is homogenizing our natural diversity (chapter 9), and a staring contest with a trout in a mountain lake that kicks off a wave of social and personal philosophy (chapter 18). Gruchow's writing has the tendency to get drifty and to go off on very long and mundane tangents - beware of sections that are written in the second person especially. But this style of writing (and thinking) is what happens when you're alone in nature with nothing but your thoughts. Gruchow proves that more people should experience this state of mind.	2003-04-06
1169227:US	52697458	RNK3UGSKP4GM7	038039362X	907637221	The 12th Planet (The Earth Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	1	67	108	N	N	The Longest Arms in the Solar System	I find it rather sad that Zecharia Sitchin has spent 20 years and six books obsessing over the ridiculous theories that get started here. Sitchin is surely an expert on the cuneiform tablets of ancient Sumer and Akkadia, but has misinterpreted them into the completely laughable stipulations found in his \\"12th Planet\\" thesis. According to Sitchin, something big happens on Earth about every 3600 years - the first settled villages, the beginning of Christianity, etc. First of all, this is a coincidence that is hardly a basis for a large theory. You could just as easily pick out events that happened every 36 days then jump and shout about how important that interval is. Sitchin then looks to his Sumerian texts for evidence and determines that there is a 12th planet in the solar system. (Note: he uses the ancient method of counting the sun and moon as planets, so with the nine actual planets, eleven are known). This 12th planet supposedly has an extremely eccentric orbit that takes it way out beyond Pluto, but every 3600 years it swings in so close to Earth that its inhabitants can jump over and influence humanity in ways that make new-agers swoon with unctuous reverence.<br /><br />Any critical thinker can see that this is a classic example of forming the theory first, then bending the evidence to fit preconceived notions. Sitchin sees spaceships and aliens in any of his ancient tablets that are otherwise unexplained or doubtful, which is the same mistake Erich von Daniken made with Mesoamerican forms in his equally atrocious &#8220;Chariots of the Gods.&#8221; Sitchin and von Daniken are in the same faulty mindset - if it&#8217;s not explained, it must be aliens! Not to mention, this theory of a 12th planet and its extreme orbit violates both Kepler&#8217;s Laws of Planetary Motion and Newton&#8217;s Laws of Gravitation. Mainstream astronomy has found zero evidence of a planet that improbably swings into our area (the key is measuring gravitational pull, the process that led to the discovery of Neptune and Pluto).<br /><br />Sitchin does so much stretching here to make the so-called evidence fit his theory, that you'd swear his arms are ten feet long. If Sitchin manages to convince anyone with this drivel, then more power to him. But critical thinkers, prepare for a good laugh.o the discovery of Neptune and Pluto).     Sitchin does so much stretching here to make the so-called evidence fit his theory, that you'd swear his arms are ten feet long. If Sitchin manages to convince anyone with this drivel, then more power to him. But critical thinkers, prepare for a good laugh.	2003-04-05
1169469:US	52697458	R25711TLCXYPYL	0679406417	587113700	The Complete Maus	Books	5	96	114	N	N	Brilliant, Tremendous	The title of this review consists of words I don't use too often. But this is a masterpiece that deserved its Pulitzer Prize and then some. What makes Spiegelman's work so moving is the juxtaposition of a supposedly lighthearted form, the comic strip, with the greatest evil and suffering in human history, the Holocaust. Spiegelman's parents miraculously survived the concentration camps, being among very few survivors, getting by on luck and (in the case of Spiegelman's father) a lot of resourcefulness. This is their story, from the point of view of the father, who lost nearly all of his relatives. With the Jews as mice and the Nazis as cats, this work pulls no punches in describing the true horrors of the Holocaust, and Spiegelman's minimalist artwork makes the images all the more disturbing.  You don't get this kind of emotion, terror, and brutal honesty in standard written accounts of the period. But underneath the direct suffering of the Holocaust, the true theme of this book is the lasting effects on the Spiegelman family, including the father's lasting agony and the mental illness shared by both Spiegelman's mother and himself, who hadn't even been born yet. The strained relationship between father and son are the true heart of this tremendous work. I haven't been this blown away by a work of literature in a very long time, if ever.	2003-04-05
1170737:US	52697458	R24YQFDOIO069N	1586480499	467724921	War Is A Force That Gives Us Meaning	Books	3	78	98	N	N	Oh the Irony	Chris Hedges definitely knows war, and not in a good way. He has spent his working life reporting from a variety of war zones, and has seen the worst in death, destruction, and human suffering. He has strong and hard-earned opinions on what happens to people and cultures in relation to war. The title of this book may fool you, because he is being ironic. War really is a force that gives us meaning, but usually not in a good way. So don't think this book is a slavish endorsement of war just because of the title. Hedges examines how the idea and possibility of war can turn normally peaceful and rational people into unthinking warmongers with a hatred for the enemy, who is often ill-defined. From the earliest societies, politicians have used war to detract from domestic problems and to turn local critics into unthinking followers. Right-wingers who usually distrust the state suddenly think it can do no wrong and believe every bit of propaganda it spits out; while left-wingers who usually have total faith in the state suddenly become its harshest critics. The war issue turns the world into a stark black-and-white dichotomy, with an us-and-them outlook on the world. We're seeing a classic example of that right now with the nonsensical \\"you agree with the war or you don't support the troops\\" refrain. Meanwhile the enemy (plus its civilians) is demonized to the point of inhumanity, while everyone on our side is perfectly good and can do no wrong.<br />This is what Chris Hedges examines in this book, and his indictment of civilized society in times of war is not too pretty. That makes this an extremely relevant book for our time. Sadly, the book is not written very well. Hedges has a very repetitive writing style in which he makes the same points repeatedly in slightly different forms, while other important points appear briefly but are not examined, indicating that his thesis would be better presented in an essay or article. In a few places he really stretches his analysis into territory that is difficult to take seriously, such as his connections between war and sexuality in chapter 4, and war and religion in chapter 6. Much of the book becomes repetitive moralizing or complaints about military operations that Hedges disagrees with. Hedges is really onto something here and his subject matter is very important, but it needs more focus plus deeper sociology and psychology to be totally effective.into territory that is difficult to take seriously, such as his connections between war and sexuality in chapter 4, and war and religion in chapter 6. Much of the book becomes repetitive moralizing or complaints about military operations that Hedges disagrees with. Hedges is really onto something here and his subject matter is very important, but it needs more focus plus deeper sociology and psychology to be totally effective.	2003-04-04
1173781:US	52697458	R2RLJCTF6B0Y8R	0060186267	334558087	The Pope and the Heretic: The True Story of Giordano Bruno, the Man Who Dared to Defy the Roman Inquisition	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Lightweight Treatment of Heavyweight Subject Matter	This is the story of the under-appreciated philosopher and scientist Giordano Bruno, who was executed by the Roman Inquisition for exercising free anti-church thought. A very specific historical episode like this requires hard history and scholarship, but Michael White writes as if this is a general interest story for a general audience. Therefore this treatment is nonsensical from the outset. White fails to deliver the goods on any of the important areas influenced by Bruno's story, and the book flies over a great many interesting areas of subject matter but lands in none of them.<br />The key flaw in the book is White's attempt to place Bruno's work in a historical context, which merely results in disjointed coverage of his actual philosophy and extremely unconvincing attempts to show Bruno's supposedly vast influence on figures like Galileo, Shakespeare, and Spinoza. White takes the opportunity to cover, in two short chapters, the evolution and history of scientific and religious thought in Europe (chapters II and III), but these treatments are far too basic too be of much use, and show the writing style of a quick high school research paper. White even assumes that he's qualified to call the works of Aristotle &quot;amateurish.&quot; Another possibility that is squandered is deeper insight into the causes and effects of the Inquisition, but White only provides a basic reporter's coverage of Bruno's trial.<br />Worst yet is the biographical aspect of the book, as the story of Bruno's life is out of order and fragmented. His actual philosophical and scientific works, which should be the centerpiece of the book, are given short shrift, especially his important attempts at unified knowledge rather than specialization. White fails as a biographer as he includes the supposed private thoughts and opinions of Bruno and the other players in the story, men who have been dead for centuries and didn't write autobiographies. This is unprofessional and quite impossible to take seriously. In the end, we are left with little knowledge of Bruno the man and his potentially important story, so one must wonder about the very point of the book. Not recommended.ake seriously. In the end, we are left with little knowledge of Bruno the man and his potentially important story, so one must wonder about the very point of the book. Not recommended.	2003-04-01
1174915:US	52697458	R35VOUC7XR23SX	0553278223	726968599	The Martian Chronicles (The Grand Master Editions)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Groundbreaking Tales of the Ugly Earthling	Some \\"classics\\" don't live up to the hype, but this groundbreaker by Ray Bradbury still deserves to be called a classic. There are few writers who can display Bradbury's sense of melancholy and creeping dread, and these qualities give the supposedly pedestrian sci-fi subject matter of this book an unexpected depth and edge. Sure the basic futuristic aspects of this book are getting rusty (it was written in the 1940's mind you), but the unique themes of interplanetary culture shock and social phobia are what make this book unique. We've all heard the term \\"ugly American\\" applied to obnoxious and condescending American tourists around the world, and here Bradbury extends the phenomenon to human colonization of Mars in the near future. The obvious parallel that Bradbury is making is with the European destruction of the Indians and enslavement of Africans. This is evident in the book's most haunting chapters concerning the mass death of Martians from human disease, and the haunting exodus of African Americans to Mars from the racist South. There are also many instances of cultural misunderstanding and conflict between the human colonizers and native Martians, allegories for the root of just about every social problem on Earth.  This book is essentially a collection of short stories or vignettes (not a full novel as is often assumed) dwelling on these concepts that are highly unique to science fiction, and remain groundbreaking to this day.	2003-03-31
1180016:US	52697458	R1R14YD8CPVWZ2	0380535610	237065218	Barefoot in the Head	Books	3	10	15	N	N	An Incredible Idea, Squandered	This book deserves to be rediscovered, from lonely out-of-print land, if only for the awesome premise that Aldiss has created. Europe has been devastated by chemical warfare, and the weapon was psychedelic drugs. The unlikely perpetrator is Kuwait of all places, and that's ironic in more ways than one. Now the whole population is on a multiple personality-inducing acid trip. An aid worker named Charteris was one of the few people not affected, and as the only sane person around, all of the headtrippers think this guy is the messiah. But it turns out that the psychoactive effects of the drug are contagious, so Charteris becomes affected himself and starts to believe that he really is the messiah. As Charteris becomes more and more insane as the book progresses, so does the third-person narrator along with Aldiss' writing style, leading toward complete incomprehensibility.<br />Sadly, such an incredible premise is buried under a completely misguided writing endeavor. Aldiss has used this interesting idea to merely experiment with writing techniques that were derivative for their time. The book is 100% 1969 and is showing its age. The stream-of-insanity writing style that Aldiss inflicts on us here is a thinly disguised copy of the groundbreaking works of William Burroughs, plus a little of Philip K. Dick. This is even more evident when you consider that most of Aldiss' other works are more straightforward sci-fi. So the incredible potential of the premise is squandered beneath waves of faddish psychedelic writing style and an exasperating parade of made-up terminology (though I admit I like the adjective \\"vonnegutsy.\\") This type of writing has been done successfully, and can bend your mind to extreme proportions, but get it from the originators.<br />The actual plot elements, theme, and character development of this story could fit into a much more focused short story of twenty pages. This tale had infinitely more potential when it started. A real disappointment.	2003-03-27
1182739:US	52697458	R1V5W5T5M129RO	0451459040	367008343	Redshift:: Extreme Visions of Speculative Fiction	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Cutting Edge Is Not Always So Cutting	Here's a collection that is a little too big for its own good. Of course the focus is on &quot;extreme visions of speculative fiction,&quot; but what exactly is extreme is a matter of opinion. Just because something is different doesn't necessarily make it good or readable. This book does contain some very intriguing and enjoyable stories that are great in their uniqueness. Favorites include the submissions from Dan Simmons, Stephen Baxter, Robert E. Vardemann, Catherine Wells, and the newcomer Laura Whitton. Probably two-thirds of the stories here are successful for the reader looking for strange new horizons. However, there is a lack of editorial focus that leads to the inclusion of just too many sub-par stories, like the inane and pointless offering from Joyce Carol Oates (whose strengths clearly do NOT include speculation, as shown embarrassingly here), the self-indulgent story from Thomas M. Disch, the sappy and syrupy submission from David Morrell, or the completely unreadable closer by Neal Barrett Jr. Another mistake is most of the story introductions from Sarrantonio, who is a pretty good writer himself but is low in the sense of humor department. This collection could have been much leaner and meaner, and often proves that &quot;cutting edge&quot; isn't always cutting.	2003-03-24
1187148:US	52697458	R152EOA1A4MFDE	0192801341	851330537	A History of the Vikings	Books	5	164	166	N	N	Incredibly Informative, but a Real Challenge	Unless you're an extremely knowledgeable expert on Viking history, you can't ask for much more than this opus from Gwyn Jones if you're at all interested in the subject. Jones presents a nearly overwhelming amount of detail on the far-flung history of the Vikings, from tribal origins in Scandinavia to their voyages of conquest and trade as far afield as Constantinople and Newfoundland. When historical information is scant or doubtful, Jones fleshes out the book with rewarding studies on Viking culture, language, and society; including a refreshingly understated examination of Norse mythology. We learn that sometimes the Vikings really did deserve their reputation as bloodthirsty marauders, but at the core they were very pragmatic empire builders who were usually able to blend into the societies they conquered, especially in Russia and Britain, thus disappearing as a distinct group and enriching the cultures of those other lands. The most fascinating portion of the book concerns the Viking exploration of the new world (including the harsh Iceland and Greenland) a good 500 years before Columbus. Jones also pulls out a surprise at the end of the saga with the indirect Norwegian influence on the Norman conquest of England in 1066, while the Normans had once been Vikings themselves.<br />Just note that if you decide to tackle this work, you are in for a real challenge. Jones is clearly the type of historian who refuses to let any detail or piece of knowledge go unused, giving this book an often oppressive sense of information overload. Some sections could really use more brevity and big-picture conclusions rather than all the exactitude. A case in point is the intensive coverage of petty power struggles between minor figures that really makes the tail end of the book a slog. In general, Jones' use of extremely long paragraphs, some of which are more than two pages in length, plus imposingly exact footnotes, lead to some real readability issues. But if you can hunker down and tackle such difficulties, you will be able to amaze your colleagues with the knowledge of Viking history that Jones imparts.and tackle such difficulties, you will be able to amaze your colleagues with the knowledge of Viking history that Jones imparts.	2003-03-20
1191915:US	52697458	R41KTKFYYB901	074322227X	942869636	The Hard Way: Stories of Danger, Survival, and the Soul of Adventure	Books	4	13	13	N	N	An Adventurous Collection	This is an enjoyable collection of Mark Jenkins' articles for various outdoor magazines. Jenkins shows an often morbid tilt to his writing and covers his death-defying adventures in many different types of extreme sports. The best articles here include \\"Hitching\\" about the lost art of hitch-hiking, \\"Ego Trip\\" about how an adventurer can make stupid decisions even if the quest is successful, and \\"From the Mouths of Babes\\" concerning the pursuit of extreme outdoor sports with little kids. Also enjoyable are Jenkins' tales of his dozens of severe injuries and his exploits with his equally danger-prone father and brothers. This collection is a little thin but it's quite an enjoyable look into the heart of adventure and why people do it.	2003-03-16
1194524:US	52697458	RSCPEGJHZDDR	0375500626	918586268	Motown: Music, Money, Sex, and Power	Books	2	12	18	N	N	Outsider Tries to Look In	One has to wonder what the point is behind this analysis of Motown. The problems can be seen right at the beginning of the book, as Posner describes in the preface that he was unable to interview virtually anybody. His main source of information is court records from the numerous lawsuits against Motown from artists trying to get their royalties. Therefore this is a very biased and lopsided book. First, Posner is clearly not a music writer and has extremely little understanding of the classic music of Motown and the social forces that shaped it and were shaped by it. When attempting to describe the sounds he can only use shallow adjectives like \\"funky\\" or \\"sharp.\\" Posner instead focuses on the business behind the Motown phenomenon, as Berry Gordy started with $800 and built one of the greatest record labels in history, but then was unable to prevent its slow and painful downfall. However, as noted above, Posner mainly uses legal documents as evidence, so his stance on business practices is tilted toward Gordy's enemies from the outset.<br />Worst is Posner's coverage of individuals, especially Gordy himself. Since Posner admits that he interviewed nobody, then his descriptions of a person's private thoughts and beliefs, which he attempts frequently, can only be copied straight from other biographies with little surrounding context. Posner also easily joins the parade of disparagement against Diana Ross, who may just deserve people's wrath, but you should be suspicious when a person is criticized but is not there to give their side of the story. Posner also gets in over his head when trying to analyze the complex personalities of Marvin Gaye and Stevie Wonder. Finally his slow-moving writing style doesn't give you the incentive to turn the pages, and the end of the story is appallingly weak with a halfhearted attempt to wrap up Motown's place in history.<br />If you are interested in the classic music of Motown and its talented stars, go elsewhere, please. This book does a better job of analyzing the business of Motown but is too fragmented and second-hand for true believability. If you're interested in that subject, also go elsewhere.does a better job of analyzing the business of Motown but is too fragmented and second-hand for true believability. If you're interested in that subject, also go elsewhere.	2003-03-14
1203217:US	52697458	R3B4LCB5ZTMXG8	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Cyberthrashers Get Theological	Here is a very fun and creative, though sometimes tedious, novel from the early crazy days of cyberpunk. More fun to read and easier to identify with than the more eggheaded William Gibson, though at this point Stephenson needed some practice keeping his wild ideas from collapsing under their own weight. In this bizarre near-future (or alternate present) computer viruses are traded like drugs and hackers create real physical havoc online. This is an occasionally wild and fastpaced romp through the crazier realms of the cyberbunk genre, though things get bogged down badly in Stephenson's quite bizarre philosophical theories. He attempts a connection between binary programming code and the genetic human understanding of language, by way of ancient Sumerian mythology (yes you read that correctly).  There are clear signs that Stephenson was wrapped up in the rickety new-age craze about \\"mind viruses\\" that was popular around the time this book was written.<br />Characters who are usually swashbuckling cyberpunks or gun-toting mafia goons drop what they're doing in reality and sit forever in what are basically chat rooms, spending dozens of pages discussing deep theology and ancient philosophy while their real life selves are engaged in wild action scenes at the same time. This really drags down large chunks of the book into a longwinded mess, with theories that aren't wrapped up by the end.  However, one very cool aspect of this book is Stephenson's vision of a dysfunctional future in which corporations run all aspects of society for profit, with no social safety net from the government. It seems kind of farfetched in the book but may be a very chilling vision of the future. This is an engaging book but is two or three steps away from greatness.	2003-03-07
1209826:US	52697458	R35EH19WU5DMDT	0679443266	956271316	Pryor Convictions	Books	5	22	22	N	N	World's Most Profane and Profound Autobiography	In chapter 20 of this book Richard Pryor offhandedly calls his comedy style &quot;profane and profound&quot; and inadvertently sums up his life and this book perfectly. This is at various times the most dirtyminded, hilarious, shocking, or downright disturbing autobiography you may ever read, but always with his great dark humor. With a bizarre and damaging childhood in Peoria, Richard Pryor was raised in his grandmother's place of business - which happened to be a whorehouse with all of its shady and unwholesome characters. A violent and painful childhood full of profanity and prejudice came out in Richard's comedy, which was truly groundbreaking in its shocking honesty. He lived a wild life in the spotlight, with addictions and a constant parade of rough women, including five wives that he divorced six times. The wives are hard to keep track of, but Richard is always brutally honest about his attitudes toward women even if it's rarely pretty. He also has a very refreshing outlook on racial matters, as the prejudice that was so damaging failed to ruin his respect for all people of any color. Most of the tail end of the book concerns his nearly born again soul searching about his infamous addictions and latest losing battle with multiple sclerosis. In addition to Richard's straightforward and unforgiving narratives, there are very frequent asides from one of his stage characters, Mudbone, who here is acting as his even more brutally honest alter ego. This gives the book an often jarring schizophrenic character, and surely reflects the true workings of Pryor's dark genius.	2003-03-02
1210947:US	52697458	R38GA3OJRJZWR3	1567511945	280935784	Rogue State: A Guide to the World's Only Superpower	Books	3	451	541	N	N	Impossible to Review Objectively	First, remember that you are unlikely to find completely objective reviews for this book, but that's okay because of its extremely political nature. Blum is a polemicist, meaning he wants to create controversy and hard feelings in order to make his point. And yes the basic political angle of his work is leftist on the surface. However, he does have plenty of criticism for Clinton and the Democrats, so Blum's political persuasion might be more accurately described as social anarchist, as he distrusts all government and politicians and believes all power should be in the hands of the real people. Such sharp politics will rile up readers of any stripe, making objectivity hard to hang on to.<br />Regardless, most of this book contains extremely useful and relevant information on US chicanery and violence around the world. Despite the constant predictable sloganeering about freedom and democracy, the US has always been more concerned about preserving corporate interests and a hegemonic domination of power, with an ideology that is unyielding and destructive. Entire peoples and nations around the world have been ruined and exploited. This is why people around the world hate us, not because of a vague dispute with a vague concept like freedom. But anyone who makes that accusation will be given the narrow-minded but still harmful label &quot;Un-American&quot; and will be ignored, if not persecuted. That's what makes Blum's work important to read, and he mostly provides sharp evidence. Unfortunately his polemic style often descends into sarcasm, damaging his credibility, and he tends to rely on lists rather than deeper insights. Meanwhile the entire book is almost sunk by the mind-numbing final chapter that is merely a list of social problems and crimes that Blum disagrees with, offering little connection to the focus of the rest of the book.<br />That's about as objective as I can get with this review, given my own personal politics.	2003-03-01
1215560:US	52697458	RR0IM97GVW1PQ	1893554120	824181499	The Killing of History: How Literary Critics and Social Theorists Are Murdering Our Past	Books	3	22	42	N	N	Intellectual Complains About Other Intellectuals	This is a book for a very specific audience. Windschuttle lays out a well-researched debunking of the current politically correct fads in the discipline of history. You'll find this book useful if you're interested in the esoteric differences among structuralism, poststructuralism, modernism, postmodernism, postcolonialism, relativism, tribalism and a long parade of other isms, not to mention a few stragglers like semiotics and hermeneutics. Certainly these theories and schools of thought have become popular among historians, much to the detriment of strict historical study at the expense of real &quot;facts.&quot; As Windschuttle nicely sums up, these disciplines start with ill-defined theories then bend the historical facts to fit the theory. A prime example is the shifting treatment of European explorers and the uncritical praise of non-Western viewpoints.<br />Unfortunately this book merely becomes an intellectual catfight that is better left to the obscure halls of academia. Windschuttle fails to explain what true historical &quot;facts&quot; really consist of, and how his own strictly traditionalist approach is morally or literally superior to the new disciplines. In fact, Windschuttle shows many indications of a frustrated right-winger fighting back against the left-wing fads, with no possibility of compromise in the middle, and no possibility of admitting that his approach may have some weaknesses as well. This is most evident in the effort Windschuttle expends in painstakingly debunking some very minor works by minor academics, such as Greg Dening in Chapter 3 and Paul Carter in Chapter 4. This book merely shows one intellectual complaining about his peers, with little effort to explain how this applies to the non-academic world. Such disputes have little connection with the general public and are suspiciously personal in nature, as Windschuttle has merely expanded these very doctrinaire disputes with his colleagues into book form.	2003-02-25
1216690:US	52697458	R2JE8FZALKHVTJ	0060956445	571510645	Monkey Wrench Gang, The	Books	5	4	7	N	N	How To Be an Ecoterrorist	Is this a book that teaches you to be an ecoterrorist? Edward Abbey's very specific technical descriptions of the sabotage carried out by the Monkey Wrench Gang have the air of feasibility. Anyone who wants to destroy heavy earthmoving machinery or blow up a bridge might get some nice ideas from this book. Of course, people should take accountability for their own actions and not use a book as a weak scapegoat. For the rest of us who know the difference between fantasy and reality, Abbey has given us a very entertaining comic novel of this motley crew of budding terrorists. What Abbey is really doing is commenting on the destruction of the beautiful desert southwest by industrial \\"development\\" just for the sake of development, while the gang represents the feelings of the longtime natives of the area who want to save all that natural beauty. That's the true good side of this novel, although the characters can be a problem. Hayduke's intelligence level rises and falls ridiculously based on the situation, while the Bonnie character is a serious problem. Here Abbey only demonstrates his lack of connection with real females. Regardless, the screwball plot and subversive political commentary in this book lead to a legitimate classic of environmentalist fiction, and comic fiction for that matter. Now I yearn to make another visit to the southwestern deserts - my latest stint as one of those tourists that the Monkey Wrench Gang can't stand!<br />Note: Try to find an edition of this book from the mid-80's, with great illustrations by R. Crumb in conjunction with a calendar project. This edition is out of print but I found mine at the library, so you never know.	2003-02-24
1221560:US	52697458	R1EHJE91P220HP	0595092705	383674100	Unseen Danger: A Tragedy of People, Government, and the Centralia Mine Fire	Books	5	21	23	N	N	A Town is Sacrificed to Politics	As a native of industrialized Pennsylvania I'm perplexed by how little is known of the tragedy of Centralia. I was unfamiliar myself until some years ago when I innocently passed through the area on route 61. I found a ghost town with an orderly street grid, with city blocks completely devoid of all but one or two lonely buildings, and vast abandoned fields covering what could have been orderly neighborhoods. I thought, what in the world is this? I also witnessed what I thought was a natural hot spring emitting steam from a hillside. Only over time did I learn that the hot spring was really smoke from the underground mine fire that wiped out what was once a normal small town.<br />DeKok's book is probably the most extensive investigation of the Centralia tragedy, especially with his coverage of the political ineptitude over decades that made a minor problem into a major disaster. Dekok reveals that the town started the fire itself in 1962 by burning trash in a landfill that had an unknown connection to an old mine shaft, which ignited the slow-burning coal in the mines beneath the town. For 19 years the slow fire affected more and more people with toxic fumes, until by 1981 tragedy struck when a gentleman had to be hospitalized and a boy fell through a flaming cave-in behind his house. DeKok covers the years and years of political and bureaucratic ineptitude that merely led to \\"studies\\" of the fire rather than action, as the people of Centralia were pawns in a game between apathetic agencies with overlapping jurisdictions, plus buck-passing between the state and the Feds. Even the citizens were torn apart by divisiveness caused by stress and anger. Eventually most of the residents chose to be relocated to other towns by the government, and DeKok's most moving coverage concerns the social agony caused by this final abandonment of the town.<br />As an update since this book, the fire is still slowly burning beneath much of the area. For their own strange reasons, a few residents are still hanging on in their lonely houses and still dealing with fumes and cave-ins. St. Ignatius church was demolished recently and route 61 has been permanently re-routed around the section that kept collapsing. This is the legacy of uncaring politicians and bureaucrats.w residents are still hanging on in their lonely houses and still dealing with fumes and cave-ins. St. Ignatius church was demolished recently and route 61 has been permanently re-routed around the section that kept collapsing. This is the legacy of uncaring politicians and bureaucrats.	2003-02-20
1222500:US	52697458	R3KUVMQT6ITEGU	1885283121	359013976	The Worst Journey in the World (Adventure Library)	Books	4	24	26	N	N	A Worse Time Than An Emperor Penguin	In the first paragraph of Apsley Cherry-Garrard's introduction to this book, he starts his tale of Antarctic travails with the droll line, \\"I do not believe anybody on Earth has a worse time than an Emperor penguin.\\" This displays his very modest and understated tale of what was really the worst journey in the world. This book deserves its reputation as an adventure classic, as Cherry-Garrard outlines the disastrous expedition for the South Pole by Captain R.F. Scott in 1913, in which the author was a young expedition member. This book certainly has its share of great adventure narratives and tales of hardship as experienced by the early explorers, including many falls into crevasses, continuous deadly weather, and near-madness brought on by the midnight sun or snowblindness. There are some unexpectedly interesting tales from before the actual expedition as well, as the author describes the voyage by ship to Antarctica with the trouble of having ponies and sled dogs on board, while the ship got trapped in pack ice for weeks.<br />This book can be a tough read however, because Cherry-Garrard was a rather tedious writer. Note that the book was written in 1922 and styles were different back then, while the author admits that he meant to create a field guide for future explorers and not armchair adventurers, like most of us are today. However, this doesn't alleviate some of the writing difficulties. About a third of the time the author's style is very conversational and light-hearted, especially when he is praising his teammates in the expedition and describing their personal interactions. Otherwise though, the book often gets stuck in extremely verbose technical explanations of provisions and logistics. An example is an episode early in the book when the author, a few colleagues, and their horses were trapped on shore ice that was breaking up, and they had to jump the horses and themselves from floe to floe, over stretches of frigid water, all the while being observed ominously by a troop of killer whales. The author describes this harrowing episode with such clinical, detached understatement that all the obvious horror and heroism are ironed out. This problem is alleviated in the later stages of the book, as Cherry-Garrard describes the tragic death of Captain Scott and other team members in the doomed return trip from the South Pole. Plus, the final chapter is very moving as the author philosophizes on the loss of his comrades and the ethics of such dangerous exploration, with an eloquent sense of survivor's guilt. So while some portions become a tedious technical manual rather than a tale of heroism and exploration, this classic book is still a very worthy read for adventure fans.ominously by a troop of killer whales. The author describes this harrowing episode with such clinical, detached understatement that all the obvious horror and heroism are ironed out. This problem is alleviated in the later stages of the book, as Cherry-Garrard describes the tragic death of Captain Scott and other team members in the doomed return trip from the South Pole. Plus, the final chapter is very moving as the author philosophizes on the loss of his comrades and the ethics of such dangerous exploration, with an eloquent sense of survivor's guilt. So while some portions become a tedious technical manual rather than a tale of heroism and exploration, this classic book is still a very worthy read for adventure fans.	2003-02-19
1222933:US	52697458	R2AYN8RNCJVC70	0865476063	690664705	Suburban Nation: The Rise of Sprawl and the Decline of the American Dream	Books	4	65	72	N	N	Mostly Accurate Condemnation of American Sprawl	The authors of this book are experienced urban planners who have a real grasp on why suburban sprawl in America is such a disaster. The key insights in this book pertain to the regulations and business practices that have made sprawl a failure. The traditional cityscape of places like San Francisco, in which all types of business and residential zones are intermixed in an organized street plan, allows people to mix in the most beneficial ways, reach all essential destinations on foot, and gives everyone a stronger sense of community and quality of life. Unfortunately, this type of pleasant urban environment is now illegal in most of the country due to zoning regulations. The authors have a firm grip on the social and political causes of this problem, and solid (if sometimes wishful) recommendations for new policies and regulations that will encourage socially and environmentally beneficial \\"neighborhoods\\" rather than stifling subdivisions.<br />Unfortunately, when the authors start editorializing they become rather arrogant and unfocused. The authors are clearly not sociologists but try to be in this book, with plenty of questionable assertions about the elitist influences on sprawl, and a tendency for big statements. Examples include \\"[real estate developers are] challenging drug dealers and pimps for position in the public's esteem\\" (pg. 100), and \\"the default setting for architecture in America is not modernism but vulgarity\\"  (pg. 211 - which is followed by a condemnation of the entire architecture profession). The biggest flaw in this book is economic, as the types of neighborhoods envisioned by the authors can only be successful if their property values increase, which places them out of reach for the type of people who would most like to live there. In the long run however, such stretching of the authors' credibility can be mostly forgiven as they deliver a solid examination of the evils of sprawl and how they can be counteracted.	2003-02-19
1228524:US	52697458	R3B6AGM0CQ1LUO	0813519098	74834871	Beyond Geography: The Western Spirit Against the Wilderness	Books	4	25	27	N	N	The Fear of Going Native	Here Frederick Turner advances a spiritual and religious thesis for the destruction of nature by Western civilization. What sets the West apart from almost everyone else in the world is a lack of connection with nature, which has lead to vast environmental destruction and the extermination of entire peoples. With great historical insight Turner traces this tendency way back to the very earliest cultures of the Near East such as Sumer and Mesopotamia, which were besieged by hostile nomads who resisted their attempts at the settled life. This influence continued into the Roman Empire which was constantly on the verge of collapse from barbarians at the gates, and Western culture developed an innate fear of unstructured and unknown nature. Meanwhile, as Christianity became the world's most bureaucratic religion, God was removed from the world and confined to the church, and stifling dogma prevented followers from attaining new revelations and awareness. In turn the outside natural world became the realm of Satan and had to be conquered and controlled. Turner extends these dire trends into the eras of exploration and expansion into the new world, with the stipulation that the inherent Western disconnection from nature led that culture to destroy it out of hatred and repressed desires.<br />This is a very strong thesis and Turner's research and insights are sound, especially for the time he wrote the book (1980), though he does tend to do a lot of stretching. An example is the implication that Westerners were so likely to slaughter other peoples because Christianity did not allow ritual sacrifices. Another problem is the inconsistent writing in this book, as Turner's distinct history and anthropology often drift into sentimentality and repetitive complaining about the West's evil deeds. Early in the book he condemns the doctrine of the \\"noble savage\\" as a patronizing effect of hypocritical Western culture (which it is), but in the final two chapters Turner is dangerously close to this attitude himself. Despite some inconsistencies, Turner has delivered a very insightful look into the culture that destroyed much of the natural world and the deep historical influences that prevented remorse and guilt, except in the subconscious of every nature-deprived Western person.close to this attitude himself. Despite some inconsistencies, Turner has delivered a very insightful look into the culture that destroyed much of the natural world and the deep historical influences that prevented remorse and guilt, except in the subconscious of every nature-deprived Western person.	2003-02-14
1232246:US	52697458	R11NIOLKYFA1AA	0679736646	201087508	Ubik	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Time Unstuck Beyond the Grave	From about the mid-60's to mid-70's PKD was really in his element, delivering his greatest novels of bizarre mind-expanding futures. While some of his earlier and later works are bogged down by preachiness or a lack of focus, *Ubik* is one of PKD's sure classics, along with *A Scanner Darkly* and others from around the same time. Here we have a world in which psychic and anti-psychic people battle for supremacy in a cutthroat corporate environment, and this battle extends to the world of death as well. Characters try to determine if they're alive or dead while time collapses around them. Holding everything together in its own weird way is a strange product called Ubik, which is clearly PKD's commentary on brand name products and saturation marketing. The uncommon term \\"entropic fiction\\" applies to this novel and a few other of its ilk by a variety of writers, in which time and society degenerate into disorder - but not necessarily chaos, just a different state of reality. Like the best of PKD's mindbending works, just read this and then spend some time removing the entropy from your thoughts.	2003-02-11
1238747:US	52697458	R1HIPV3BX9TLUX	1893956253	776902536	Listening to the Land: Conversations about Nature, Culture and Eros (29 Interviews)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Valuable and Diverse Compendium of Earth Philosophies	Kudos to Derrick Jensen for coming up with the idea for this unique book. This is a very insightful and diverse collection of conversations with a variety of environmentally minded thinkers. These are structured as loose dialogues in which each thinker's ideas come to the fore. Not all of these discussions are strictly environmentalist (in the basic definition of the term), but all explore humanity's important connection with the Earth in myriad fashions. The discussions are very loosely arranged by discipline; with ecology, science, politics, economics, sociology, anthropology, and finally art and philosophy appearing as the book progresses.<br />This ordering of different disciplines leads to a few problems in flow. The book gets off to a rocky start with essays in hard ecology from activists, especially Christopher Manes, who can't accept the fact that humans are (at least temporarily) stuck in a non-ecological society. In the book's later stages things really slow down with poorly developed philosophies and quaint PC-isms. A low point is the scatterbrained mysticism/communitarianism of Dolores LaChapelle and Julien Puzey, while the environmental bookbinding art of Sandra Lopez is rather neat but too esoteric to be of much use.<br />But the day is more than saved overall by the powerful remainder of the book, in which the really articulate thinkers make their mark. Good examples are the musings on technology by Jerry Mander, the population economics of William R. Catton Jr., and the cultural analysis of Frederick Turner. A good side effect of this book is the attention it brings to the many under-appreciated and valuable books by these thinkers. And in every interview, Jensen does a marvelous job of acting less like an interviewer and more like a facilitator. He provides sharp comments and leading questions in an efficient manner, allowing each thinker to give their philosophy in ways that provide maximum insight to the Earth-connected reader.	2003-02-06
1240639:US	52697458	R211YAMGAVEP30	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Humungous Meisterwork of the New New Sci-Fi	While accolades like &quot;Dickensian&quot; are a bit over the top, there hasn't been a new novelist in years that deserved as much excitement as China Mieville. Here we have a very impressive tour-de-force of modern science fiction mixed in with cyberpunk, subversive politics, and other heavy aspects of the Gen-X mindset. This novel takes place in a wasted city that is surely inspired by London, on a devastated planet that is probably Earth in the very distant future. Humans have mixed with many races of aliens into a dysfunctional society that has degenerated into a dark age of chaos and repression. Mieville does show some tendencies of the rampaging young writer with a few too many ideas, as this book tends to ramble in places. Sometimes we are lost in lengthy technical descriptions of machinery and architecture (an example is an overly long write-up of the workings of a mailroom in chapter 9), there are too many place names with no impact on the story, and a few too many bizarre alien races.<br />On the other hand, Mieville has a real gift for political intrigue and power plays in his writing, and bizarrely creative concepts and settings. My favorite is a garbage dump that evolves a collective artificial intelligence due to a computer virus. The most mind-blowing aspect of this novel is the villains - a tribe of mutants who feed on one's thoughts and dreams, and excrete dark psychic pain in amounts that drive entire populations insane. So while Mieville needs a little practice reining in his many ideas into a leaner-and-meaner focus, this book still has the power to blow your mind in ways that sci-fi hasn't been capable of in ages. Here's a hot new writer that deserves to be hot.	2003-02-04
1245660:US	52697458	R1BB0OP14ES3U9	1583225153	127812585	Censored 2003: The Top 25 Censored Stories	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Project Censored Gets Back on Track	As a longtime follower of the annual Project Censored guides, I was distressed by the last few editions, which were becoming marred by whiny conspiracy theories and a bleeding-heart editorial style (especially the 2001 edition). This latest 2002/03 edition gets back on track with a newly hard-hitting stance on the increasing weaknesses of the mainstream media. Given the partial revival of seriousness in the media world after 9-11, Project Censored has in turn hardened its stance on the new realities in the media and why certain types of stories continue to be censored. As usual, the problem is profit-driven media conglomerates that focus on lowest-common-denominator fluff to appease advertisers; and empty patriotism that actually becomes an unquestioning acceptance of simplistic government dogma, especially concerning the causes and effects of 9-11.<br />The control of most of the US media by a shrinking number of huge multinational corporations continues to be a very serious problem. This can be seen in this years preponderance of censored stories that involve corporate wrongdoing and corruption. You dont get these stories in the mainstream media because they will damage the profitability for shareholders in those controlling corporations. Another dangerously recurring theme this year is the harsh effects of globalization on sovereign nations and disadvantaged peoples, and the medias pathological disdain for globalizations opponents. There is mounting evidence that nobody benefits from globalization, NAFTA, or the WTO but corporations and their largest shareholders. But in the corporate media you wont hear this. Thats why the Project Censored analysis of these trends is so important.<br />This edition delivers strong treatments of these dire trends in the corporate-controlled media and offers in-depth coverage of these worthy but under-reported stories. There are also several supporting essays by media analysts and watchdogs that are fascinating in their own right. The only glitches in this book are two particular essays that detract from the analytical nature of the rest of the book and drift into self-serving opinions. These are \\"Power Sources\\" by Ina Howard, a mind-numbing and predictable parade of statistics with few big-picture conclusions; and \\"Truth About Afghan Casualties...\\" by Marc W. Herold, which contains useful information but an annoying amount of self-aggrandizement and a debunking of the author's opponents that seems like more of a personal crusade than a quest for the truth. Fortunately, overall this edition of the great Project Censored series achieves its goals in bringing tragically hidden and extremely important stories the attention they deserve.n their own right. The only glitches in this book are two particular essays that detract from the analytical nature of the rest of the book and drift into self-serving opinions. These are \\"Power Sources\\" by Ina Howard, a mind-numbing and predictable parade of statistics with few big-picture conclusions; and \\"Truth About Afghan Casualties...\\" by Marc W. Herold, which contains useful information but an annoying amount of self-aggrandizement and a debunking of the author's opponents that seems like more of a personal crusade than a quest for the truth. Fortunately, overall this edition of the great Project Censored series achieves its goals in bringing tragically hidden and extremely important stories the attention they deserve.	2003-01-31
1248250:US	52697458	R2Q0OFCO22CKYN	0813338859	109785068	A Concise History of the Middle East (7th Edition)	Books	3	15	22	N	N	Accomplishes Its Goals, But For Freshmen Only	When I picked this book up I did not expect it to be a college textbook, especially because the back cover claims that it is suitable for the widest audience. This definitely is a text for college students, and beginning ones at that. The book must be reviewed in terms of its intended audience and the goals it tries to achieve, and it is at least partially successful as both a concise compendium of as much Middle Eastern history as possible, and as a good introduction to the subject for beginners. Don't expect extensive details and examinations of specific political or social events and trends. If you are looking for an introduction then this book certainly lives up to its title as a \\"concise\\" history, and you can find more specific and explanatory books elsewhere if desired.<br />However, there are still some problems with this book, mostly related to Goldschmidt's writing style. There's a desperate tendency for trying to make topics \\"interesting\\" to students, and numerous annoying attempts at foreshadowing and suspense that merely result in the we'll-get-back-to-that-later refrain. Goldschmidt is concerned with analyzing deep trends and how they relate to the modern world, which is a good attempt to arouse interest in bored students, but these attempts merely devolve into personal opinions and weak rhetorical \\"what if\\" questions. There is also Goldschmidt's frequent use of the word \\"I\\" in the first person, which damages his credibility as a detached historian. This book runs the risk of turning off its intended audience - college students who don't have a prior interest in the subject. On the other hand, it accomplishes its goals of providing a concise introduction and summary to those who are interested, but it remains at a basic level.	2003-01-29
1255006:US	52697458	RXK3J2WT0D5GW	0743444728	538643582	Helliconia Spring: The First Book in the Helliconia Trilogy (Helliconia Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	31	43	N	N	Not the Epic That It Thinks It Is	In this first book of the Helliconia trilogy, Brian Aldiss has created what appears to be a Dune-like epic taking place over many centuries. It certainly is a creative concept. - an Earth-like world with a long orbit in a binary star system, with an extremely long revolution and seasons that last for centuries. Here the \\"people\\" of Helliconia have lived a hard life in winter conditions, much like the Neanderthals or Eskimos, and believed that the world had always been that way. But springtime slowly begins in this book, and the people become more cultured and learned with the easier life, but also less healthy and vigilant. This obviously represents the transition in the real world from hunting and gathering to agriculture, or from the dark ages to the renaissance.<br />These grand concepts are definitely robust, but at the more immediate levels of plotline and character development, Aldiss delivers little more than a very typical fantasy/adventure yarn with a little bit of sci-fi mixed in. There are some creative settings and weird features like animals that are born by eating their way out of their parents, and trees that grow underground during the winter then literally explode into the spring. But these are undermined by a very predictable tale of epic journeys, strange creatures, and complex but courageous leaders, straight from a million fantasy novels. Also Aldiss has a very - shall we say - \\"outdated\\" conception of the female characters. The worst aspect of this novel is something that really looks like a tacked-on afterthought. It turns out that Helliconia is being observed by a team of Earth scientists who ludicrously have been hanging around the planet for centuries and making very quiet analyses of this primitive world. This seems like merely a convenient way for Aldiss to provide a detached narrator to the story, and the Earth scientists' presence is hard to take seriously. This first book ends predictably with little to make you running to the following books in the trilogy. The Helliconia tale tries to be a vast epic but turns out to be small in scope.ng books in the trilogy. The Helliconia tale tries to be a vast epic but turns out to be small in scope.	2003-01-24
1258885:US	52697458	R22F0NF82MRAUW	0385503024	417958158	World on Fire: How Exporting Free Market Democracy Breeds Ethnic Hatred and Global Instability	Books	4	32	36	N	N	A Good Thesis, But Not Solidly Presented	Amy Chuas main thesis in this book, which can be seen in the subtitle on the cover, is indeed a strong and useful one. The doctrinaire democracy and capitalism that the US is pushing on developing nations, usually as a condition for financial or military aid, is nonsensical and barely rooted in reality. First, there has never been unrestricted (laissez-faire) capitalism in the US or any successful Western nation, given minimum wages, subsidies, and other aspects of a social safety net. There also has never been pure democracy in the US, as it took generations for women and minorities to achieve suffrage. One must also consider the structure of the Electoral College that was disastrously evident in the 2000 election (though Chua misses the opportunity to use this very pertinent example). In fact, total democracy and capitalism, which have even been rejected by the US, are extreme ideologies with as little hope for success in the real world as any other type of extremism. However this is exactly what we are forcing on the developing world, with plenty of disastrous consequences.<br />Chuas main tool of reference here is market dominant minorities which are the main beneficiaries in societies where capitalism is still developing, such as the Chinese in all of the nations of Southeast Asia, or whites in most of Latin America. These peoples are usually seen as greedy outsiders who are concentrating wealth in countries where the ethnic majorities are increasingly exploited and humiliated. Adding unrestricted democracy to this troublesome situation gives political power to the oppressed majority that they can then use to enact revenge on the exploitative ethnic minority. Horrific examples are the confiscation of Chinese businesses by Indonesia (which indirectly led to the Asian financial collapse in 1998) and even the genocide in Rwanda. This ethnic structure is not a problem in the Western world, but breeds instability and violence in non-Western developing nations when extreme American ideals are forced on unready societies.<br />However, this strong thesis is not the end-all explanation to the worlds ethnic problems, and this can be seen in the weaknesses in Chuas presentation. She is a rather repetitive writer, with the same examples popping up again and again in an attempt to beef up the argument. Also, Chua is far too worried about avoiding critics and continuously tries to prove that she is not anti-American or anti-globalization. In the process she wavers politically and indirectly shoots down many of her own points. Examples are her forced analyses of examples that dont quite fit her thesis but that she tries to use as support anyway, especially Yugoslavia (chapter 7) and her attempt to expand the argument to explain worldwide resentment of America (chapter 11). Chuas thesis in this book is certainly a very strong and believable one, but it probably requires more focus and political muscle to gain acceptance among policy makers.ing nations when extreme American ideals are forced on unready societies.<br />However, this strong thesis is not the end-all explanation to the worlds ethnic problems, and this can be seen in the weaknesses in Chuas presentation. She is a rather repetitive writer, with the same examples popping up again and again in an attempt to beef up the argument. Also, Chua is far too worried about avoiding critics and continuously tries to prove that she is not anti-American or anti-globalization. In the process she wavers politically and indirectly shoots down many of her own points. Examples are her forced analyses of examples that dont quite fit her thesis but that she tries to use as support anyway, especially Yugoslavia (chapter 7) and her attempt to expand the argument to explain worldwide resentment of America (chapter 11). Chuas thesis in this book is certainly a very strong and believable one, but it probably requires more focus and political muscle to gain acceptance among policy makers.	2003-01-21
1261059:US	52697458	R1Z0142IE51SDG	0156170949	238817777	The Chinese Opium Wars	Books	5	35	41	N	N	An Early Embarrassment for Free Trade	This is a highly enjoyable history by Jack Beeching into an embarrassing episode from the 19th century that holds many lessons for today's world. The Opium Wars in China seem to have been forgotten by the West, especially by those who don't want to confront the more ignoble actions by European powers. By the early 1800's England had been exporting large quantities of opium into the Chinese black market. The Chinese emperor tried to outlaw opium because it was leading to large numbers of addicts and was destroying the social fabric of several cities. This was anathema to British merchants who were surely willing to overlook the horrific consequences of their trade in light of the handsome profits they were making. In fact, in Chapter 9 of this book a British official is quoted as saying, \\"Free trade is Jesus Christ, and Jesus Christ is free trade.\\" England then went to war twice with China (with help from France, Russia, and the U.S.) to keep the opium market open. It was even official policy during these wars to force more opium into the Chinese interior and create millions more addicts, and to pressure the Chinese into legalizing the drug, all because free trade and profits were more important than the destruction of a sovereign society.<br />Beeching makes great use of historical analysis, and a bit of sarcastic humor, to describe these two opium wars and the surrounding historical context. He does a good job outlining the cultural misunderstandings that made things worse (both sides always called the other crude barbarians), and he does a fine job covering all sides of the story within the context of concurrent British and Chinese history. On the British side, the book does occasionally get bogged down in Parliamentary politics back in London, but on the Chinese side there is good coverage of native culture and an interesting foray into the Taiping rebellion.<br />The most useful outcome of this fascinating book is its lessons about free trade between Western and non-Western economies, which was even a troublesome issue back in the 19th century. In modern times, a common criticism of globalization is its destructive effect on foreign cultures. Any proponent of unrestricted free trade, before condemning such concerns as politically correct nonsense, would be wise to consider the old Opium Wars. The British and their western allies justified the ruination of a society by the profits it generated, and conveniently forgot any religious or political scruples about trading in illegal drugs. Meanwhile the East's distrust for the West was intensified and still remains to this day. One has to wonder if Columbia currently has that attitude about exporting drugs to the U.S. They're just practicing free trade and western capitalism, after all.non-Western economies, which was even a troublesome issue back in the 19th century. In modern times, a common criticism of globalization is its destructive effect on foreign cultures. Any proponent of unrestricted free trade, before condemning such concerns as politically correct nonsense, would be wise to consider the old Opium Wars. The British and their western allies justified the ruination of a society by the profits it generated, and conveniently forgot any religious or political scruples about trading in illegal drugs. Meanwhile the East's distrust for the West was intensified and still remains to this day. One has to wonder if Columbia currently has that attitude about exporting drugs to the U.S. They're just practicing free trade and western capitalism, after all.	2003-01-19
1264951:US	52697458	R3DF1VIXBPDUAI	0333096479	965576980	A Curious Life For A Lady: The Story of Isabella Bird	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Quality Tale of an Adventurous Life	Isabella Bird was quite a unique traveler and explorer, especially as a product of starched and buttoned-down Victorian England. Ignoring her society's rigid expectations for a proper lady, Isabella spent decades traveling (often quite dangerously) through Asia, North America, and the Pacific. In the process she achieved feats of bravery and fortitude that are still rarely topped by Western women, even despite her numerous health problems and advanced age at the time of most of her epic journeys. Isabella also deviated from the Victorians in her concern for conservation and respect for other cultures. This biography provides the story of this adventurous life and also serves as an enjoyable travelogue of Isabella's journeys.<br />The only problem here is that a very large percentage of this book is copied verbatim for Isabella's own writings, and sometimes from previous biographer Anna Stoddart (whom Pat Barr tends to criticize even while borrowing from her copiously). These direct quotations are sometimes several pages long and tend to meander into details that were appropriate for Isabella's own writings but awkward for a biography. This gives the impression that Barr merely compiled this biography rather than writing and researching it herself. So while this book is tedious in some places it is still a very enjoyable tale of epic journeys to exotic spots around the world, and a good tribute to a very interesting and adventurous woman.	2003-01-16
1267959:US	52697458	R1BJJJBLR6P5N6	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	1	36	43	N	N	Everything That's Wrong with Corporate Education	I spent seven years in the corporate/workforce training field, and never reached lower points than my run-ins with this unfortunately popular piece of tripe. My job was to train employees in the use of extremely complex software systems  training that required deep analytical thinking by the employees. I was never more distressed than to teach a high-impact software class to a group of people who had been exposed to Who Moved My Cheese in the recent past by another trainer. Any company that thinks this book is useful in the training or motivation of employees epitomizes everything that is wrong with corporate education today. This book does contain a useful premise in how employees have to deal with change and competition in the workplace. However, distilling these important matters into the inane parable of mice in a maze is a device meant for grade school students. Parables are used to teach complicated topics to kids. But using a parable to teach an important but non-complex topic to freethinking adults who are smart enough to get a job at a corporation is as nonsensical as it is insulting to their intelligence. Any company that subjects their employees to this dribble (plus the dreaded group activities that go with it) is too concerned with weak trends and not concerned enough about encouraging independent and intelligent thought among their employees. If you work for a company that makes you read this book, consider working elsewhere because they obviously dont think youre very smart.	2003-01-14
1270768:US	52697458	R1E7VAJ9IRK220	158297120X	410767196	2003 Writer's Market	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Best Market Companion for Freelancers	The Writer's Market guide continues to be the best and most informative resource for anyone trying to find writing work in the freelance world. Most useful is the huge section of magazine listings for those publications that actively buy short works from freelancers, offering many opportunities to break into the market when you don't have big endorsements or prior publications to use as a marketing tool. Just beware of telephone numbers and e-mail addresses that aren't guaranteed to be accurate or could change without warning. This guide does show some weakness in the essays at the beginning of the book, with some poorly presented articles that are high on information but low on deeper insights. For example, you learn how much tape to put on a box of photographs, but not how to effectively search for online opportunities although the online world is trumpeted through the book. This year, the traditional  \\"How Much Should I Charge?\\" feature is missing for editorial reasons, and this is possibly the most useful feature of past editions. One has to suspect that Writer's Market is steering people to their online system, which has more information but requires a subscription fee.	2003-01-12
1273519:US	52697458	RVCH7CNNR641M	0881337390	105690945	Soul Rebels: The Rastafari	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Useful Social Introduction	Although this book does not go into a large amount of detail, it is a quick and useful introduction to the Rastafarian way of life, at least on the social and economic side. William Lewis has based his work on direct interviews and observations with Rastas that he has met, so the book focuses on their social interactions, lifestyles, and viewpoints on the world around them. However, you have to wonder if those particular Rastas were being truthful because Lewis is a white Roman Catholic priest (although this does not infringe on his view of other cultures and religions). Lewis includes case studies of both urban and rural Rastas in Jamaica, a group in a large US city, and the interesting case of a \\"repatriated\\" group in Ethiopia. There is an interesting aside in the study of the US urban Rastas, as Lewis keeps the name of the city confidential to protect his subjects from prosecution, but later in the book he accidentally tells us that it was Brooklyn. This book is lacking in deeper insights into the true religious nature of Rastafari, as Lewis' historical backdrop to the development of the belief system is rather quick and sketchy, and there is little more than superficial coverage of the complicated Rasta belief system. It would have also been nice to see more on the direct influence of Haile Selassie rather than just his historical inspiration, and also how the religion adapted to his death (the Rastas literally thought he was the messiah). If you already know something about Rastafari, you probably won't learn much new here. So this book is most useful as an introduction which may inspire you to explore more in-depth studies elsewhere.	2003-01-09
1277612:US	52697458	RONKO29DJTUQS	0375714499	38005795	Manufacturing Consent: The Political Economy of the Mass Media	Books	3	52	92	N	N	Plausible but Selective Indictment of Selective Media	If you are interested in media analysis and criticism then this book is certainly worth reading, but beware of its inherent weaknesses and do not assume that it is an authoritative voice on the issues it raises. Herman and Chomsky have a strongly researched thesis that they call the Propaganda Model, and they apply it well to case studies in which the mass media have been found to distort the truth behind major stories to cater to elite interests. Note that this book was originally written back in 1988 so the then-current stories that the authors use to back up their Propaganda Model are no longer of much interest - such as Solidarity in Poland and US relations with Central America in the mid-80's. However, these stories are still useful and informative in relation to the Propaganda Model, and the authors show with very strong evidence that those stories were misreported (accidental) or disreported (on purpose). The reasons for this poor reporting by a supposedly free press mostly include pressure from elite corporate interests in the US (blowing away predictable complaints about a \\"liberal\\" press) and the unreasonable assumption that US government press reports are factual and can be taken at face value - when the authorities have a self-serving and self-protecting agenda like everyone else. The current edition does have a new introduction that extends the Propaganda Model into more current events, proving that the media bias is still alive and well, although the authors show a rather Luddite-like disdain for the internet.<br />Unfortunately, after a strong start and a very believable premise, this book breaks down steadily as it goes along. First, the authors use a very limited sample of major media outlets in their studies of the coverage of the various news events. These major outlets may have shown improper reporting, but the authors usually use just this small sample to support their thesis, completely ignoring smaller and non-establishment outlets that may have shown a less reprehensible side of the media. Another problem is the academic writing style that is meant for the peer review process rather than the enlightenment of the public. Here it is more important to endlessly pile on repetitive evidence to avoid having colleagues shoot down your thesis. This may work academically, but the concerned public reader will find an incredibly repetitive case of information overload that is low on enlightening insights.<br />The book takes a major downhill turn in the chapters dealing with Vietnam and Laos/Cambodia, in which the Propaganda Model is less visible in the analysis, and the authors have switched from media analysts to historians. Here it is evident that Herman and Chomsky wish to provide an alternative history of the Indochina Wars in order to make political statements, under the pretense of presenting evidence that was withheld by the biased media. These chapters are marred by unprofessional sarcasm, loaded words like \\"murderous\\" and \\"immoral\\" to describe US actions, and Chomsky's creeping conspiracy theories. The Laos/Cambodia chapter breaks down completely as the authors had already covered that area in a previous book. The chapter here ceases to be a media analysis and becomes a rebuttal of criticisms from other authors who disputed Herman and Chomsky's earlier claims. This includes a suspiciously longwinded and sarcastic debunking and condemnation of the journalist William Shawcross.<br />In the end, the Propaganda Model postulated by Herman and Chomsky is indeed plausible and perfectly proves media bias, but **only in the examples covered in this study**. There is little evidence of a pattern that extends across all media in all situations, which is the authors' apparent goal. In fact, corporate and government pressure on the media to toe the propaganda line is indeed a serious problem in America, but the problem is more inherent or systemic within a social system where money equals power. Digging into these systemic issues would be far more difficult and complex, but would be more enlightening than trying to find supposed conspiracies.ystemic issues would be far more difficult and complex, but would be more enlightening than trying to find supposed conspiracies.	2003-01-07
1288599:US	52697458	R1NIKMOD2E56OA	0679734449	480135461	The Transmigration of Timothy Archer	Books	2	12	36	N	N	Thinking That Goes Everywhere and Nowhere	PKD is known for his relentlessly subversive, creative, and disturbing novels of horrific sci-fi futures, but as he neared the end of his career he fancied himself a theological sophisticate. This final book before his death is incorrectly described as part of the Valis Trilogy, when in fact it is not directly related to those books (which weren't really a trilogy anyway but more like three interconnected examinations of similar themes). The true trio consists of this book's two predecessors, *Valis* and *The Divine Invasion*, plus the posthumous *Radio Free Albemuth* which is the best of the three. Sadly, while not closely related, this book continues the weaknesses of those other recent PKD novels with none of the intrigue or interest. In chapter 15 here, a character criticizes another character as having a thinking style that goes everywhere and nowhere. Well that sure is the pot calling the kettle black, because it perfectly describes this book and PKD's writing style in the end.<br />Here we have yet another directionless and interminable overload of disconnected philosophical ideas, indicating only the unfocused nature of PKD's personal readings and research at the time. Obviously he was on a personal religious quest to find his own deeper meanings and answers, but you can see that his quest was unfocused and inconclusive. Here we have a book that is overflowing with so many obscure theological and literary references (sometimes in other languages) that you say \\"enough already.\\" The poorly constructed characters usually don't converse but embark on never-ending monologues that go on and on with directionless philosophizing. That goes especially for Timothy Archer himself, who is so longwinded and didactic that he couldn't possibly find anyone to talk to in real life. I hope that PKD found some sort of personal reward through writing this book, because there is no reward for the bored and exasperated reader. Many of PKD's dozens of other books (especially in the middle years of his career) make up a far better legacy to an often brilliant writer.he middle years of his career) make up a far better legacy to an often brilliant writer.	2002-12-30
1291060:US	52697458	RAG8HW1D3UWVU	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	4	7	13	N	N	There Really May Have Been a Conspiracy	The problem with American politics in recent years is that hardly anyone (on either side) has a conscience like David Brock. He was a muckraker for the Conservative movement that overwhelmed the more moderate side of the Republican Party in the 80's and 90's. As he desperately toed the party's unyielding ideology in his need for acceptance and validation, Brock admits that he sold his soul. Here we see that the Conservatives (this does not correspond to all people with legitimate right-of-center views) really weren't for anything, but were obsessed with crushing what they were against - Bill and Hillary Clinton - by any means necessary. Through the entire Clinton administration the Far Right dealt in character assassination and rumor mongering as opposed to leadership through policy ideas, with a pathological personal hatred for the Clintons along within anyone who was socially different. We also learn of their incessant abuse of the media and legal processes to destroy the administration and overturn a fair majority election that they disagreed with, culminating in the impeachment based on flimsy evidence of Clinton's personal peccadilloes (as opposed to actual crimes, for which there was never any evidence). Brock was a key player in this process, writing \\"articles\\" in the Far Right press that he admits were just rehashing of groundless rumors and accusations. Brock provides plenty of evidence that there really was an organized effort by the Far Right (the word \\"conspiracy\\" is tricky) to crush the Clintons personally. But Brock's conscience eventually got to him, especially because he was a gay man enslaved to a political movement that was virulently anti-gay, and also because he saw through the hypocrisy in general.<br />The problems with this book include Brock's tendency toward very long and unfocused run-on-sentences, while he can't keep his timelines in order. He tends to place too much importance on his own journalistic works for the Far Right, contending that his writings were more historically influential than they probably were (there were many muckrakers doing what he was doing). Meanwhile, some of his soul-searching rings hollow, as he continued his unethical ways for several more years after his conscience finally started to get to him. But in the end, here we have a courageous account from someone who was heavily involved in the most ridiculous and embarrassing (for the public) political era in recent memory, but decided to take the high road not just for his own sanity but also for America's.at his writings were more historically influential than they probably were (there were many muckrakers doing what he was doing). Meanwhile, some of his soul-searching rings hollow, as he continued his unethical ways for several more years after his conscience finally started to get to him. But in the end, here we have a courageous account from someone who was heavily involved in the most ridiculous and embarrassing (for the public) political era in recent memory, but decided to take the high road not just for his own sanity but also for America's.	2002-12-28
1293037:US	52697458	R2909ES9QRXY57	0679734457	486927956	The Divine Invasion	Books	3	22	34	N	N	Directionless Philosophy Overload	*The Divine Invasion* is not necessarily a sequel to *Valis* but is loosely related to it through the use of some common themes and subplots. Even so, this books few detached references to *Valis* are quickly forgotten and seem like a weak afterthought. This book is more standard science fiction than its predecessor, but the religious philosophy that PKD was studying in his later years is still the focus. At this point in PKDs life he was apparently so engrossed in finding his own theological answers to life that his studies in that field came to dominate his thoughts. When an author reads too many books out of personal interest and either consciously or unconsciously lets his reading seep into his writing, the result in a very unfocused and noncommittal book like this one, and it appears that he is no longer concerned about entertaining or enlightening the reader.<br />As opposed to the Gnostic Christianity focus of the last book, now PKD is dealing in ancient Jewish mysticism, as characters play out the primordial battle between good and evil in a sci-fi future. Unfortunately the characters in this story are very thin and difficult to identify with, being either doppelgangers for figures from Jewish theology, or merely longwinded mouthpieces that ramble on and on with PKDs unfocused theological ideas. Essentially, PKDs personal quest for religious answers lead to an apparent dead end, and that is reflected in this novel. His newfound knowledge is only a large quantity of detached religious ideas with little overall direction or deeper insights. That is also the exact same problem that makes this book one of PKDs more frustrating and unrewarding efforts.	2002-12-26
1296026:US	52697458	R2I0JDAO264MDM	0060988312	400910345	How to Overthrow the Government	Books	5	65	66	N	N	How to Overthrow the Plutocracy	This is a book that many people will rate based on their agreement or disagreement with Huffington's politics. Beware of low ratings that people give simply because they don't like the author's record, while some high ratings may have the same problem. These are hardly useful to someone considering a purchase. Certainly this book is political, but it is not necessary to agree with Huffington 100% politically to appreciate her main points. So if you're prone to reducing any piece of public discourse into an archaic (and currently nonsensical) liberal vs. conservative dichotomy, don't bother with this book because you won't get it. What Huffington's talking about here is far beyond left vs. right squabbling. The only problem with this book is that it was written in the middle of the 2000 presidential campaign and was immediately outdated in certain sections. Huffington's opinions on that election's disastrous finish would have given this book some extra kick.<br />Huffington has a great insider's view of the horrendous state of our current political system. She's a Republican but she's got just as much (maybe even more) vitriol for the GOP in its failure to live up to its ideals, as she does for the Democrats. Plus her Centrist ideas reveal her to be one of the most levelheaded and realistic pundits around. For example, her proposal that all corporations and rich people should give 10% of their income to charity sure isn't a Republican-like idea. In her great tongue-in-cheek and slightly sarcastic style, Huffington shows the ineffectiveness of the system, as career politicians on both sides are enslaved to corporate contributions, opinion polls that only ask inane lowest-common-denominator questions, and a lapdog media that convinces people that \\"character' (actually reputation and personal rumors) is more important than leadership skills. And unlike other books of this type, Huffington's ideas for solutions aren't cheesy platitudes like \\"take the power back,\\" but real options like politically oriented volunteering, \\"None of the Above\\" options on ballots, and local clean finance campaign initiatives. Corporate contributors really spread the money around to all politicians, as a way to latch onto whoever has power regardless of ideology, while politicians utilize this vicious cycle to hold onto power instead of making real decisions or exercising true leadership, and the system looks down its nose at a disillusioned and disenfranchised electorate. This book is about overthrowing this plutocracy, and people of all political persuasions should be concerned, unless you're a slave to the big money.l options like politically oriented volunteering, \\"None of the Above\\" options on ballots, and local clean finance campaign initiatives. Corporate contributors really spread the money around to all politicians, as a way to latch onto whoever has power regardless of ideology, while politicians utilize this vicious cycle to hold onto power instead of making real decisions or exercising true leadership, and the system looks down its nose at a disillusioned and disenfranchised electorate. This book is about overthrowing this plutocracy, and people of all political persuasions should be concerned, unless you're a slave to the big money.	2002-12-23
1296180:US	52697458	R3VX35EOZNL26E	0679734465	131170192	Valis	Books	4	55	64	N	N	Arcane Religious Philosophy as Schizophrenic Quasi-Biography	This book comes from the later stages of PKD's career, when he probably didn't even care about making his books accessible to the masses. That's something that up-and-comers have to do, and by this point PKD was surely trying to sort out his own personal philosophies in narrative form. You can see the websites for several different PKD fan clubs for speculation on what was going through his mind when he wrote this one. Here we have musings on religious visions, spiritual quests, and arcane ancient Greek and Gnostic Christian philosophies. Obviously one would also suspect experimentation in the arts of mind expansion, though in real life (if such a thing exists) PKD hated to be branded in that way. These are all played out by the typically off-center characters and curveball speculative plotlines of classic PKD.<br />This book can be quite frustrating at times, with long philosophical passages that are merely a mishmash of ideas PKD had come across in his personal studies, and that lead to philosophy overload but with little direction or grand overall insight to be found. Plus you have to wonder if this book is a literal or merely mental autobiography, or not an autobiography at all but one of PKD's subversive storytelling techniques, designed to warp the reader's mind. This book is told in both first and third person by the same character, a schizophrenic with two personalities that operate simultaneously and even interact with each other (a feature of several PKD stories). Here one of the two selves is the increasingly insane Horselover Fat and the other is his sane alter ego, who happens to be the author PKD himself. Ultimately, the mass philosophical confusion of this novel morphs into sheer fascination, albeit in a pretty cluttered way.<br />Note that the make-believe movie seen by the characters in this book was expanded by PKD into another novel - *Radio Free Albemuth* - which was not published during his lifetime. A story within a story within a quasi-mental-autobiography, as it were.-autobiography, as it were.	2002-12-22
1298991:US	52697458	R1XK19JMWW1H5F	0375408746	411655503	The News About the News: American Journalism in Peril	Books	5	5	5	N	N	What People Want and What People Need	Downie and Kaiser are veteran newspapermen with a very experienced perspective on the business of news, and they prove in this book that the current situation isn't so good. Journalism is in a sorry state due to modern trends of money grubbing and media fragmentation. Increasing absentee corporate ownership of newspapers and TV networks has led to an obsession with short-term profitability, with reporters and editors being forced to focus on lowest-common-denominator topics like entertainment and consumer news. This might help profit margins now, but damage journalistic quality so badly that the health of the news business is in a downward spiral. Another problem is inaccurate market research by consultants who know little about the business, leading to the unproven perception that the public wants less substance and more convenience. The real evidence proves otherwise, and media outlets think that giving people what they want is more useful than giving them what they need. The authors also prove the near uselessness of most local TV newscasts, which have become enslaved by pressure from advertisers, and are prone to \\"action\\" news that is photogenic but informationally useless.<br />The authors tend to heap an annoying amount of praise on their employer, the Washington Post, although that paper deserves its reputation as one of the nation's best. They also fail to look into non-establishment and alternative media outlets (sticking mostly to newspaper, TV, and a little bit of cyberspace), while the later chapters of the book become a repetitive summary of points that were proven long before. However, the insights into the poor health of the news business are very illuminating and even a little scary, because the most successful democratic society should be a well-informed one. But the recent decline in journalistic integrity is not necessarily a permanent trend and it can even be reversed. The best evidence is in the aftermath of 9/11, as the hunger for real in-depth knowledge awakened in the American public, and the news business finally realized that the public was smarter than they assumed all along. Time will tell if the downward trend in quality will reverse itself over the long term, but for the meantime Downie and Kaiser have created an expose that should lead to much self-examination in their field.h knowledge awakened in the American public, and the news business finally realized that the public was smarter than they assumed all along. Time will tell if the downward trend in quality will reverse itself over the long term, but for the meantime Downie and Kaiser have created an expose that should lead to much self-examination in their field.	2002-12-19
1301758:US	52697458	RD7ODJLSMVSJQ	006095955X	363273152	A Walk Across America	Books	3	28	42	N	N	Hippie Takes a Long Walk	Note that the cover of this book, showing a Rocky Mountain scene, is inaccurate. This book covers Jenkins' walk from New York State to Louisiana, while his trek to the Rockies is in a later book. In this story Jenkins starts as a disillusioned hippie in 1973 and decides to walk across America to restore his faith in the country. He started with little knowledge of the challenges of hiking - embarking in New York in the fall and thus suffering through winter in the Northern Appalachians, then spending the sweltering summer in the Deep South. There are many surprises in this book concerning the people Jenkins met along the way. This is especially true of his run-in with racial prejudice in the Deep South, and his perspective as an extremely nave hippie white boy from up north is rather interesting. In the North Carolina mountains he was harassed by Yankee-hating rednecks who threatened to lynch him. But in the very next town he found shelter with a friendly black family who let him live with them in their cramped trailer home for five months. Jenkins' time with the Oliver family is the best part of this book, even though it interrupted his walk - and his account of his first service at their church is hilarious.<br />Other than meetings with some interesting people, this book cracks under Jenkins' completely juvenile and nave writing style. Examples can be found in odes to his faithful and personality-rich dog Cooper, who was his traveling companion. Try not to gag on lines like \\"my irresistible friend brought, for the thousandth time, a smile like all of sunshine to my face\\" or \\"he and I were going to be together forever!\\" Jenkins is unable to convey any sort of emotion without an over-reliance on exclamation points and remedial platitudes - some examples are \\"Oh! I was mad!\\" and \\"Mobile made me want to sing and shout!\\" This tendency ruins for the reader the truly monumental events in Jenkins' life during his trip - the death of his dog, an unexpected religious conversion, and falling in love with a southern belle. Worst yet is his total lack of insight into his own efforts at soul searching, the freedom of unrestricted travel, or the real America that he was looking for and found. That all makes this book little more than a dry travel diary, and I sure hope that Jenkins' later books show more skill and insight.conversion, and falling in love with a southern belle. Worst yet is his total lack of insight into his own efforts at soul searching, the freedom of unrestricted travel, or the real America that he was looking for and found. That all makes this book little more than a dry travel diary, and I sure hope that Jenkins' later books show more skill and insight.	2002-12-17
1304447:US	52697458	R1I3KD92GHUKYD	1582431213	397588128	A Pelican in the Wilderness: Hermits and Solitaries	Books	3	16	21	N	N	Stories About Stories About Loners	This is an example of a book with interesting subject matter, which just doesn't work out in terms of readability. Colegate is a fiction writer otherwise, and her writing style does not jive well with a topic that requires research and independent insight. Here we have what is essentially a scrapbook of vignettes about hermits, recluses, and a few misanthropes throughout history who decided to live the solitary life. The problem is that the book is merely a repetitive listing of stories, usually covered in a few pages, distilled from other books in which an entire volume is given over to those persons. See the bibliography for proof. This list-like method is also evident in the way Colegate has fallen for the predictable legends of Thoreau as a secluded loner on Walden Pond (chapter 13). Of course Thoreau's writings on naturalist ethics deserve to be classics, but Colegate misses this point as she describes Thoreau as a hardcore hermit in a vast wilderness. Everybody knows that Thoreau was actually within short walking distance of a town and often went to his mother's house for food and shelter, and was hardly a wildman roughing it on his own.<br />Colegate's writing style is also pure British, in that rambling, non-committal, and vaguely chauvinistic way. Colegate covers many interesting regions of the world in this book, but that creeping British condescension seeps through. For example, in chapter 2 she gives a predictable save-the-rainforest argument to people in Thailand who are forced to rely on firewood for fuel, and apparently need this Western person to teach them about forest ecology. Ultimately, this book is just a listing of untroubled loners, who are interesting in themselves, but are compiled into a boring book that has no insights or researched conclusions about humanity's need for solitude in itself.	2002-12-15
1305824:US	52697458	RLPLHWCE6MJR8	0679781374	104788172	Radio Free Albemuth	Books	4	6	8	N	N	PKD&iquest;s Ultimate Paranoia	Having read a fair amount of PKDs work, Im hardly an expert but I do know that some of his stories are incoherent and directionless, while others are excellent and deeply insightful (especially my personal favorite, A Scanner Darkly). In either case, I will always be amazed by his uniquely subversive ideas. This book was found in unpublished form after PKDs death, and I think I can see why he did not submit it for publication. First, it runs parallel to the Valis Trilogy in ways that may cause confusion. Meanwhile, the ideas used here and the methods of narration are kind of a messy hodgepodge, although the book does succeed in the end. The most awkward aspect is PKDs insertion of himself as one of the two main characters in the story. This method sometimes devolves into merely an outlet for PKD to complain about being labeled as a drug-induced writer, and to play out his extremely paranoid delusions about the Feds monitoring and whitewashing his work. Meanwhile, as opposed to some PKD books that cant quite carry a single undeveloped idea, this book has just too many of them fighting for space. Here we have rampant McCarthyism, disenfranchisement, near-death experiences, subliminal messages, cosmology, and even ancient religious philosophy. All these ideas and awkward techniques make this book rather clumsy and careening, and PKDs sheer paranoia shines through at every turn. But you can still be moved by his nightmarish scenarios of conformity and state control gone mad - and these are valuable insights, regardless of their plausibility.<br />...	2002-12-13
1306994:US	52697458	R2I6QATFAU5FHQ	0156180421	546202796	City of Truth (A Harvest Book)	Books	3	26	27	N	N	Empirical or True	Here is an initially sharp social satire set in a city where you must tell the truth and lies are against the law. The authorities have literally scared lying out of the population. The book starts hilariously with the citizens of Veritas telling it like it is - ending letters with \\"yours up to a point\\" and eating at a restaurant called Booze Before Breakfast. It turns out that Veritas is really obsessed with empiricism (based only on observation and rules) rather than the much deeper \\"truths\\" of life. Morrow brings up this point very briefly in chapter 5, but unfortunately fails to expand on this intriguing theme. After that brief insight, the book becomes nonsensical and melodramatic, as the main character escapes to the secret city of Satirev to deal with the real truth about his son's fatal illness. The city of Satirev, in which people are allowed to lie but ultimately are more truthful, is a ridiculous construct that is hard to take seriously, while the story devolves into sentimentality rather than the sharp social observation that was hinted at earlier. Morrow's examination of the real meaning of truth, even if lying is necessary to achieve it, ultimately does not materialize even though he was really onto something big for a while.	2002-12-12
1308653:US	52697458	R13J16QZUWIZFT	0374246645	710965458	The Ghost with Trembling Wings: Science, Wishful Thinking and the Search for Lost Species	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Becoming Unextinct	This is a very unique book about mankind's relationship with endangered and extinct species, from both a naturalist and ethical perspective. As more and more species become extinct through the actions of humans, sightings of supposedly extinct creatures remain common. Is this because those animals really aren't extinct, with small populations still surviving in remote locations; or is it just wishful thinking? Weidensaul finds some of both in this book. Some regions of the world are still so remote that they are yielding new species (even some large mammals like in Southeast Asia) and revealing survivors of animals that were thought to be extinct. On the other hand, people may think they see romantic and mythical creatures out of subconscious longing for a world that is still mysterious and dangerous, and maybe even evolutionary guilt for destroying species forever. A related issue to that subconscious longing is the creatures of cyrptozoology, which explains the never-ending reports of Bigfoot and the Loch Ness Monster. Weidensaul dwells both on the ethical issues behind such wishful thinking, and also on the real science of bringing species back from the brink. He examines the ethics of using genetic engineering and cloning to save endangered species - and recreating extinct species, a new craze of questionable value. Weidensaul also takes us on entertaining searches for supposedly extinct creatures that have a reasonable chance of still existing, like the cone-billed tanager in Brazil or the strange thylacine in Tasmania. The only problem here is Weidensaul's lack of closure on many of the ethical issues that he raises, but this book is still a rewarding look into mankind's always complicated relationship with nature.	2002-12-11
1312983:US	52697458	RD4VOCUS0W7SX	0345384210	663196193	The Dream Cycle of H. P. Lovecraft: Dreams of Terror and Death	Books	5	16	25	N	N	Dreams of Occultism and Magick	some... knowledgeable Lovecraft collectors might not like these Del Rey collections (the other two are The Best Of H.P. Lovecraft and The Transition of H.P. Lovecraft). These collections are still good for the beginning or intermediate HPL fan, plus they feature excellent cover art by John Jude Palencar. But these volumes are rather messily compiled, and I highly doubt that Del Rey truly understands the supposed dream cycle of related stories that HPL constructed over the years, which is the attempted focus of this book. Meanwhile, the trite subtitle \\"Dreams of Terror and Death\\" indicates the weak stereotype of HPL as a horror author. On the contrary, he was a student of occult mysticism and ancient philosophy, and the haunting aspects of his stories can be seen as an indirect bonus. Many of HPL's recurring figures like Nyarlathotep and Azathoth, and places like Ulthar and Sarnath, are not figments of his imagination but aspects of ancient occult texts. HPL also makes repeated references to the Elder Ones and the Necronomicon, signs of a very learned occultist.<br />So don't expect stereotypical horror, and let yourself be drawn into HPL's deep world of the occult. Note that some aspects of his writing require a lot of patience. His well-known bigotry and Anglophilia can reach ridiculous proportions; while some the tales here are maddeningly predictable (\\"The Statement of Randolph Carter\\") or ponderous (\\"The Dream Quest of Unknown Kadath\\"). HPL's prose is very dense, obscure, and slow moving, but ultimately fascinating when you let it sink in. The biggest surprises in this book include \\"Celephais\\" which is pure fantasy, \\"The Dreams in the Witch-House\\" which includes elements of highly intellectual science fiction, and \\"Ex Oblivione\\" in which the character essentially embarks on a permanent drug trip. The pinnacles of this collection are the nearly overwhelming cosmology and philosophy of \\"Through the Gates of the Silver Key,\\" which I suspect was inspired by Einstein's Theory of Relativity; and the brilliant novella \\"The Case of Charles Dexter Ward\\" which is arguably HPL's most fully realized and well-constructed tale.'s Theory of Relativity; and the brilliant novella \\"The Case of Charles Dexter Ward\\" which is arguably HPL's most fully realized and well-constructed tale.	2002-12-08
1317842:US	52697458	R34KR76XX9YNMZ	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Bradbury Battles Conformity  Twice	Sure the story of a nightmare world in which free speech is forbidden, as a parable for the directions our real-life society is going, has been done a million times - both before and after \\"Fahrenheit 451.\\" So why is Bradbury's book a classic? The key is his superior writing skills and offbeat social subversion. In Bradbury's world, free speech has not been suppressed through a fascist exercise in social control and forced conformity, as in Huxley's similar \\"Brave New World.\\" Instead, in this book free speech has been eliminated indirectly through what would now be called rampant political correctness. Every single piece of free speech might be offensive to someone somewhere, so all books and entertainment are eliminated so the masses can waste away in feel-good conformity. Ignorance is bliss in this world. This is a groundbreaking concept for a book written way back in the 50's. Bradbury must have been terrified by the PC hordes that broke out 30 or 40 years later. The one major problem with this book is the characters. The protagonist Montag is ultimately narrow and undefined, even though most of the story concerns his inner struggles. The other main characters - Beatty, Faber, and Granger - exist only as longwinded speechifiers for Bradbury's ideas. But the book is saved by the real sense of creeping dread and social agony lurking in the background, all highlighted by Bradbury's intriguing prose and curveball plot techniques.<br />Be sure to read an edition of this book published after around 1980. Prior to that, editors had abridged the book without Bradbury's consent, removing some troubling passages for the sake of helpless schoolkids (or more likely, their holier-than-thou educators). This is the ultimate irony - censorship of a book about censorship! Be on the lookout for an edition containing Bradbury's \\"Coda\\" (or epilogue) - a blistering indictment of this issue in which Bradbury essentially tells all opponents to kiss his you-know-what, in a quite scathing way.g way.	2002-12-04
1319248:US	52697458	R2EG7H38XHVZ60	0679772693	620118114	A Short History of Byzantium	Books	5	25	31	N	N	1123 Years at Breakneck Speed	This is a very fast-paced and enjoyable history from Norwich, cramming a gigantic amount of history into a rather short book. Here Norwich has condensed his masterwork, a 1200-page trilogy on the Byzantine Empire, into a single volume for maximum impact. The intricate details, references, and notes are left to the trilogy - so this book, while short on evidence and details, is full of action and intrigue. For various reasons the Byzantine Empire has been unappreciated by Western scholars, being condemned to obscurity in favor of the less cultured and shorter-lived Roman Empire. In fact the Byzantine Empire survived for another thousand years after the Romans fell to a bunch of scraggly barbarians, keeping the classic culture of Rome and Greece alive while Europe languished uselessly in the dark ages. In addition to his competent research and sharply enjoyable writing, Norwich performs a real service in bringing to light the religious and cultural accomplishments of the Byzantines. He also has a real eye for the empire's never-ending political intrigues and skullduggery (an example is their love of gouging out their opponents' eyes). Due to this book's focus on the action, it can get confusing at times. Short-lived emperors, and a few empresses, often zoom on by without making much of an impression, while intricate political shenanigans with Europe (especially in the later days of the Empire) are hard to follow. Another problem is the Byzantines' habit of giving everyone the same names, as about a gazillion Constantines, Johns, Michaels, and even Andronicuses blur together in confusion. The lack of detail and clarification in some parts of this book may be frustrating, or may make you yearn to read the much larger trilogy. In either case this breakneck tour of Byzantium is a fascinating read.	2002-12-03
1324583:US	52697458	R3M5ZFT2V8DKTM	0810934957	903570147	Earth from Above	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Incredible Photos - Just Disregard the Text	This extremely large book is overflowing with incredible overhead photos by Yann Arthus-Bertrand, who has a real eye for the most surprising aspects of the Earth's landscapes. Here we have shots of formations, patterns, and phenomena that you couldn't even imagine, much less see, from ground level. This book is great for fans of photography, armchair travelers, and nature lovers alike. The only problem with this book is some of the text that accompanies the pictures, which attempts to focus your attention on environmental justice. Only a small portion of the photos show ecological damage or social problems in any way, but for some reason just about all of the book's text focuses on those issues. This includes a series of predictable essays to begin the book's unnecessary \\"chapters\\" (by a variety of writers), plus many of the one-paragraph captions for each photograph. For example, a shot of a meteor crater in Australia has a caption that somehow turns into a complaint about animal extinctions caused by humans (missing link: an asteroid may have rubbed out the dinosaurs). The caption for an innocuous shot of a people's market in Kenya becomes a tirade about the disparities between rich and poor nations. Personally I agree with most of these sentiments, but they are badly out of place in this otherwise remarkable book. These issues are better served in more scholarly books that focus on them exclusively. Fortunately the photos here are so amazing that the text can be skimmed over without losing the integrity of the book.	2002-11-28
1328535:US	52697458	R3IDSCBMX1L7XJ	0922915636	560023154	Snitch Culture: How Citizens are Turned into the Eyes and Ears of the State	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Paranoid Culture	In this book Jim Redden brings to light the long and shameful history of surveillance in the US, mostly fueled by \\"snitches.\\" The problem is that snitches are more motivated by monetary payoffs and promised reductions in their own sentences, rather than some sense of justice. Many informants turn out to be liars who are taking the authorities for a ride, but that doesn't stop those in power from giving their lies complete credence. This book has numerous horror stories of innocent people being seized, injured, and sometimes killed by the authorities based on flimsy and unproven tips from informants. The most terrifying aspect of this book is that this is not confined to suspicions of criminal activity, but political activity as well. Before you preemptively dismiss this book as liberal whining, there is plenty of evidence of government surveillance of political groups that both the left and right disagree with, through the use of paid informants who most often have a score to settle. The government also gets around the Bill of Rights by subcontracting with private groups who spy on their opponents out of political paranoia (a shocking example of this is the Anti-Defamation League).<br />These are truly disturbing revelations that Redden admirably brings to light. Unfortunately this book has a severe flaw, in that Redden cannot draw the line between those types of informing that are constructive and non-constructive for society. We should be shocked at political surveillance of people who are exercising their First Amendment rights, but when it comes to criminals the issue is far murkier than Redden implies. In this book's \\"Case Study Eight\\" he describes how the Italian Mafia (purveyors of untold numbers of serious crimes) has been mostly neutralized through the use of stool pigeons and infiltrators, but implies that this is a \\"snitch\\" operation just as bad as the others in the book. In Chapter 9 he condemns the \\"America's Most Wanted\\" TV show as a snitch operation, complaining about viewers acting as rats even though the show has helped catch hundreds of violent criminals. Redden's general overuse of the word \\"snitch\\" makes it more of an epithet toward any type of informant he disagrees with, and the moniker tends to lose its power. If this book had stuck with the truly troubling surveillance of law abiding citizens for political purposes, it would seem far less paranoid than it ultimately proves to be.complaining about viewers acting as rats even though the show has helped catch hundreds of violent criminals. Redden's general overuse of the word \\"snitch\\" makes it more of an epithet toward any type of informant he disagrees with, and the moniker tends to lose its power. If this book had stuck with the truly troubling surveillance of law abiding citizens for political purposes, it would seem far less paranoid than it ultimately proves to be.	2002-11-24
1330446:US	52697458	RX9VKN23Y6PMW	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	2	35	72	N	N	Reactionary, Not Skeptical	Here in the customer review community you are unlikely to find more articulate and well-written reviews than those for this book. These are often lengthy and passionate, from all sides of the political spectrum. With that in mind, one-star and five-star reviews may be from extreme thinkers. Two, three, and four-star reviews are likely to be from more moderate and analytical thinkers. I am concerned about the environment, though I lean toward the pragmatic and rational thinking of Sierra Club, rather than the self-righteous theatrics and polemics of Greenpeace. But I also know that environmental groups can exaggerate, usually because of the need for funding. I won't give this book one star because Lomborg has performed a valuable service in bringing the exaggeration of environmental doomsday theories to light. However, that's the only good thing about this book. Main points:<br />1) You can see plenty of other reviews for an expose of Lomborg's faulty statistical methods, and especially *Scientific American* magazine. But even this misses the forest for the trees. You don't need precise statistics to know that there is environmental damage taking place at an alarming rate. You can see it all around you with your own eyes. Whether air pollution is 2.3 or 1.7 parts per million, the problem is still there.<br />2) Lomborg states repeatedly that he has environmental concerns, and that there are still serious problems, but things are actually getting better (at least statistically). There is merit to this position. However, things are getting slightly better because of the environmental awareness among the general population of recent decades - awareness caused by the very methods Lomborg criticizes throughout this book.<br />3) The fact that anti-environmentalists are likely to praise this book as \\"real science\\" in the face of thousands and thousands of other pieces of evidence that state the contrary is revealing. One single book that refutes the claims of thousands, and then is praised by certain groups as truthful and realistic, is unlikely to be impartial.<br />4) Despite Lomborg's repetitive claims to the contrary, he is not a skeptic. He's a reactionary. A skeptic refuses to believe something at face value and demands to see evidence, but then is willing to believe a position if the evidence is strong and foolproof. On the contrary, Lomborg has decided that he already disagrees with a position, extreme environmentalism, and proceeds to compile \\"evidence\\" that supports his viewpoint. This is reactionary politics, not a skeptical inquiry.<br />This book suffers from a fundamental flaw, which is present at the beginning and prevents it from ever achieving the degree of believability that is Lomborg's goal. At the core, Lomborg is guilty of the exact same exaggeration and polemics that he's criticizing.d then is praised by certain groups as truthful and realistic, is unlikely to be impartial. <br />4) Despite Lomborg's repetitive claims to the contrary, he is not a skeptic. He's a reactionary. A skeptic refuses to believe something at face value and demands to see evidence, but then is willing to believe a position if the evidence is strong and foolproof. On the contrary, Lomborg has decided that he already disagrees with a position, extreme environmentalism, and proceeds to compile \\"evidence\\" that supports his viewpoint. This is reactionary politics, not a skeptical inquiry.<br />This book suffers from a fundamental flaw, which is present at the beginning and prevents it from ever achieving the degree of believability that is Lomborg's goal. At the core, Lomborg is guilty of the exact same exaggeration and polemics that he's criticizing.	2002-11-22
1333519:US	52697458	R2FY3MIOJ7Q5LD	0399525106	108318802	Passage of Discovery	Books	2	6	7	N	N	A Waterlogged Trip up the Missouri	This book is not meant as a precise historical account of the journeys of Lewis & Clark, but a study of the Missouri River and its surrounding areas as the explorers saw them, vs. how these areas have changed since then. Also, the portion of the Lewis & Clark journey west of the Rockies is not included, as the book sticks to the Missouri River. The most blatant changes in these ecosystems are the straightening and channelization of the river itself, which has led to massive environmental (and economic) damage for a pathetically small amount of barge traffic; plus the conversion of vast prairies to farmland which has led to serious losses of native flora and fauna. The book becomes a messy mixture of travelogue, as Botkin describes how to reach key areas of the river, and musings on the environmental health of these areas. While Botkin has had well-deserved success in environmentalist circles, his attempts to draw up naturalist ethics and morality significantly weaken this book. A lack of focus and the squishy writing of a college freshman are also damaging. Botkin is prone to god-awful metaphors, starting the main narrative awkwardly with \\"Rocks are nature's books; minerals are its words\\" and populating the rest of the book with more groaners like \\"Rocks Tell Stories and Soils are Nature's Braille\\" (subtitle of chapter 25). His attempts to wax philosophical on mankind's modern lack of connection with nature, while correct in spirit, are also unsuccessful in the writing department. See the awkward comparison of a pelican's spiraling flight path to society's shifting concerns for the environment in chapter 6, or the predictable comparison of prairie dog towns with an ideal human society in chapter 32. This book had the potential to be a real winner as both a travelogue with a historical twist and as a treatise on environmental philosophy. Unfortunately it merely flirts with those two strengths without really nailing them, and is sunk overall by weak writing.	2002-11-20
1340549:US	52697458	RMSTAMDEVZZ40	0060937319	350275263	A People's History of the United States: 1492 to Present	Books	4	16	21	N	N	The American History of Non-Winners	Here is a book full of under-appreciated stories that need to be told. Consider the common maxim that history is told by the victors. Uncomfortable facts about both the losers and the victors themselves cannot be found in most standard histories, which often verge on hero worship and forced morality (especially in American history). Howard Zinn has decided to write what is essentially an alternative history of the United States, from the point of view of the non-winners. This usually includes Indians (at least in the earlier parts of the book), blacks, women, and poor white people - that is, everybody not part of the ruling elite. Zinn states in his introduction that he is not even trying to be impartial to all sides (as if historians are always impartial anyway, which they're not), and he merely wants to tell the other sides of the story.<br />This book is sure to cause trouble, especially among conservatives who will complain of rampant political correctness. There's merit to that complaint, but that doesn't invalidate Zinn's project. The most troublesome aspect of this book is Zinn's reconstruction of the American Revolution, in which he contends that the founding fathers were elitists who yearned to oppress the masses themselves, instead of letting the British continue to do it. Thus the passionate movement for \\"independence\\" was merely a front by the elitists to manipulate the masses, and the founding fathers don't quite deserve the past 200 years of hero worship. This theme of elitist control runs throughout the rest of Zinn's American history, as the country apparently got off to this poor start and never recovered.<br />Whether you agree or disagree with Zinn's contentions, you will find these previously unknown histories of the non-elite very illuminating. The only problem is the structure and length of this book. Zinn focuses each chapter on a specific episode in American history, such as manifest destiny, abolition, or World War I, and then gives very numerous examples of stories from the other side. This structure leads to a book that is rewarding but very repetitive and verbose. Clearly Zinn worried about omitting important narratives, but there's just too many of them. This problem is alleviated a bit toward the end of the book, as Zinn uncovers some insightful info on modern resistance movements that are hidden beneath the elite-controlled media. But unfortunately this book can be a real slog to get through even though you know that many valuable insights are in store. Perhaps this book can be consulted on a long-term basis, like a very humanistic encyclopedia.merous examples of stories from the other side. This structure leads to a book that is rewarding but very repetitive and verbose. Clearly Zinn worried about omitting important narratives, but there's just too many of them. This problem is alleviated a bit toward the end of the book, as Zinn uncovers some insightful info on modern resistance movements that are hidden beneath the elite-controlled media. But unfortunately this book can be a real slog to get through even though you know that many valuable insights are in store. Perhaps this book can be consulted on a long-term basis, like a very humanistic encyclopedia.	2002-11-14
1340633:US	52697458	RFAI9URI3LMSR	0811720926	634235253	Trees of Pennsylvania: and the Northeast	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Head for the Vast PA Forests	Here's another winner from Charles Fergus on the natural side of Pennsylvania. Many people are unaware of the vast forests of Pennsylvania, and the surprisingly varied trees therein. Here Fergus, who is quite a readable writer, describes just about every tree to be found in Pennsylvania, both naturally or in some cases ornamental. Descriptions of the bark, leaves, fruits/nuts, ranges, and life spans of most of the trees are described in detail. A refreshing aspect of this book is that Fergus has made real efforts to see specimens of many of these trees himself, sometimes extremely remote and rare specimens. One interesting chapter covers trees that are not native to PA but were introduced either purposefully or accidentally, with either good or bad consequences for the ecosystem. I was not aware that weeping willows and apple trees are not native to Pennsylvania. The only problem with this book is a general shortage of illustrations, meaning you'll have to rely on text descriptions of leaf shape or bark texture alone, making it hard to prospect for noteworthy trees yourself. But this is probably just a production constraint, and pictures can be found elsewhere without too much trouble.	2002-11-14
1345869:US	52697458	R3OUREENFLJCNI	0679736654	738686232	A Scanner Darkly	Books	5	43	48	N	N	A Disturbing Tract for Both Sides of the Brain	I have always felt that PKD was the type of author who could really blow me away with his mind-expanding ideas. Unfortunately his other novels that I previously read struck me as overrated, as the ideas failed to gel into coherent stories. However, he hits the bullseye with \\"A Scanner Darkly\\" which has to be one of best novels. Taking place in a dysfunctional near-future, the story revolves around the new drug called Substance D. (The only glitch in this book is that PKD places the story in the 1990's, and PKD's vision of the future from back in the 70's is a bit distracting in its inaccuracies). Substance D causes a disconnect between the left and right sides of the brain, causing a split personality syndrome in which both of the user's selves are active simultaneously and compete with each other. The main character, Bob Arctor, is an undercover cop who poses as a dealer, and his undercover self has been assigned to watch his dealer self. At first he realizes the bureaucratic mistake, but as he falls deeper and deeper into the world of Substance D, Bob can no longer perceive the difference between his two selves and descends into a schizophrenic nightmare. Bob's deteriorating state becomes a very disturbing tract from PKD on the nature of one's identity, the destruction of the self through drug abuse, and the reality or un-reality of the self's replacement. Also, in PKD's future the drug war becomes a class war, as the \\"straights\\" need the users as a class of non-persons to manipulate and to experiment on. This may just be the way users see the world, and PKD shows us that it may not be a farfetched conspiracy theory. This is a truly troubling look into the world of damaged and ruined minds, from a man who just may have been there himself.	2002-11-10
1346590:US	52697458	R1PYT6BK599CI4	086571231X	688228440	Dumbing Us Down: The Hidden Curriculum of Compulsory Schooling	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Education vs. Schooling	We surely need more thinkers like Gatto in American education. While I was lucky enough to get good grades throughout my life in public education, I have realized that I was at my dumbest point when I was in school. Gatto shows me why, and as an award-winning teacher he definitely knows what he's talking about. American public education is a huge bureaucracy that is more concerned with preserving itself and growing to ever-larger proportions. The focus is not &quot;education&quot; (critical and independent thinking); but &quot;schooling&quot; (sending faceless kids through the system). As in any bureaucracy that deals with millions of entities, school kids are managed to the point of anonymity where everyone moves toward sheer averageness. Thus the outcome is conformity and indoctrination; plus a realm of social problems, the poor showing of American kids compared to other &quot;advanced&quot; nations, and even that distinctly American contempt of mavericks and free thinkers (which is found nowhere else on Earth except under Communism). The system even forces out visionaries like Gatto (usually by condemning them as whistleblowers) in favor of bureaucrats who preserve the status quo. Gatto's writing does have a few drawbacks, as he has the habit of rattling off lists of social problems and blaming them wholesale on poor schooling. Meanwhile his main solution, at least in this book, draws inspiration from the Congregationalist ethic of colonial New England, which may have worked but Gatto can't make it fit into the modern urban world, especially in terms of transportation and employment. (Note that Gatto's later books surely have much more articulate and solid recommendations). These flaws can be forgiven however, because Gatto has already performed a critical service by bringing the miserable problems of the educational system to light in the first place - a truly courageous and intelligent act.<br />This book doesn't get five stars merely for production reasons. It's basically a collection of essays and speeches created by Gatto at different times, in which he made the same points to different audiences - making this book rather repetitive. Also, at just over 100 pages, it's too short to really explore either the roots of the problem or possible solutions. This challenge is solved in Gatto's later books. Therefore this book can be used either as an introduction or summary, but it does not give the full spectrum of Gatto's vision.'s basically a collection of essays and speeches created by Gatto at different times, in which he made the same points to different audiences - making this book rather repetitive. Also, at just over 100 pages, it's too short to really explore either the roots of the problem or possible solutions. This challenge is solved in Gatto's later books. Therefore this book can be used either as an introduction or summary, but it does not give the full spectrum of Gatto's vision.	2002-11-09
1347045:US	52697458	RJ5IARWKZZPB	015601081X	365409731	The Eternal Footman	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Atheist's Doomsday	This is the final work in Morrow's excellent trilogy on the \\"death\\" of God. Unlike the wacky and satirical \\"Towing Jehovah\\" and the extremely intellectual \\"Blameless in Abaddon,\\" this third installment takes on the tones of Stephen King or Dean Koontz in a slightly creepy doomsday scenario. Here God's giant corpse from the previous books finally decomposes, with the skull ascending to the sky and orbiting the Earth, constantly reminding all of humanity that God is really gone. A psychosomatic plague of death wipes out most of the western world before people come to their senses and embrace a new age of rationalism. Once again this is all a vehicle for Morrow's highly structured Atheist theories. He's not an agnostic who believes nothing, but an intellectual who has arrived at Atheism through reason and research. This novel continues to represent Morrow's theology, which is surely thought provoking regardless of your religious persuasion. Unfortunately, this installment is the weakest of the trilogy, with Morrow's post-apocalyptic wasteland showing little imagination or creativity (see King's \\"The Stand\\" for a better example), followed by visions of a politically correct future world of enlightenment that are too rosy for belief. Also, the conclusion takes way too long wrapping up too many subplots. But still, Morrow's highly articulate and visionary trilogy will never cease to provide food for thought.	2002-11-08
1348415:US	52697458	R333MHLQSJZD4P	0871136112	786465583	All the Trouble in the World: The Lighter Side of Overpopulation, Famine, Ecological Disaster, Ethnic Hatred, Plague, and Poverty	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Let's Get Moderate!	Even though P.J. O'Rourke is totally a Republican, that doesn't stop me from thinking he's hilarious in a very useful way. The good thing about him is that he's a clear-thinking and rational centrist, only a little bit to the right; and since I'm a little bit to the left and try to be clear-thinking and rational, there's plenty of room for everybody with a levelheaded view. The true unheralded battle is now between extremists and moderates (forget the archaic liberal vs. conservative battle), and moderates of all stripes can enjoy O'Rourke's politics even if you disagree with some of the specifics. You don't get these kinds of insights from modern politicians, who are either extreme-right Republicans or Democrats who are amazed by the dimness of their ideas. At one point in this book, in chapter 7, he calls left-wingers \\"nitwits\\" and right-wingers \\"peabrains\\" in the same paragraph, so you know he's no extremist or stiff ideologue. He cares about both the environment and private property rights, and favors both profiteering and universal education.<br />This book is basically a curmudgeon's guide to the problems around the world that the politically correct care about. O'Rourke has some great insights, such as the fact that all famines are caused by politics, and that the Endangered Species Act has never saved a single species. There are some inconsistencies however, especially in the overly preachy chapters concerning the environment. O'Rourke contends that a lot of American pollution is committed by the government on federally owned lands, and proposes the vague panacea of private property rights as the solution. But later he blames Haiti's poverty on too much private and not enough public property. But his case studies in certain godforsaken locations are very illuminating - Bangladesh for overpopulation, Somalia for famine, and even the former Yugoslavia as a really bad case of multiculturalism. Except for some vague and predictable endorsements for wealth generation and responsible government, O'Rourke doesn't pretend to have the answer to the world's problems, except that they should be tackled by non-extremist minds. That sure is a refreshing viewpoint, especially from a cranky old Republican!ation and responsible government, O'Rourke doesn't pretend to have the answer to the world's problems, except that they should be tackled by non-extremist minds. That sure is a refreshing viewpoint, especially from a cranky old Republican!	2002-11-07
1353326:US	52697458	R1Y8GMLN9I462U	1568360509	891837497	Trespassers on the Roof of the World: The Secret Exploration of Tibet (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	32	34	N	N	The Outside World Comes Crashing In	This is a very entertaining little history book by the master expert on the obscure lands of Central Asia, Peter Hopkirk, who is also an excellent writer. The focus here is an esoteric bit of history which has probably not been covered elsewhere - the race by the outside world to get into mysterious Tibet, and especially its forbidden capital Lhasa. The Tibetans' almost pathological need to be left alone led them to repel anyone from outside shortly after such interlopers crossed the border. Add to that Tibet's inaccessibility, surrounded on three sides by the most impenetrable mountains on Earth, and on the fourth side by equally hostile deserts, all of which many people though the ages have died trying to traverse. Of course this all made outsiders, especially Westerners, yearn to \\"gatecrash\\" this forbidden land.<br />Hopkirk tells the intriguing tales of the various adventurers, diplomats, and missionaries who made the earliest attempts to reach Lhasa, most of whom didn't make it. While mostly unsuccessful in reaching their ultimate goal, these hardy souls still had incredible stories to tell and contributed immensely to the sparse knowledge of Tibet's geography and culture. Included are some unexpected goodies like the story of the indestructible Pundits from India who literally counted the steps they took, plus the earliest deadly attempts to conquer Mt. Everest. The book ends rather depressingly with the story of China's brutal occupation in the 1950's, which ended Tibet's self-imposed isolation once and for all, after which the Chinese closed it off even more tightly because of political paranoia.<br />Throughout the book, Hopkirk offers some key insights into ancient Tibetan culture and their homegrown brand of extreme Buddhism. As a result we find that Tibet was never the spiritual paradise of pure thought and devotion that modern celebrity Buddhists try to tell us it was, before the outside world screwed everything up (we see that not even the Dalai Lama makes that claim). You may be surprised by the fierce, if nave, warlike tendencies of the Tibetans, even their monks. The only problem with this book is Hopkirk's tendency to hold back on many stories. He starts to describe some very interesting tales, like the harsh ordeal of the lone female missionary Susie Rijnhart or the mysterious Japanese spy Narita Yasuteru, only to abruptly claim that the conclusions are outside the scope of the book or more extensively described elsewhere. This is a rather frustrating tease from the author, especially since this book is not that long and there is surely room to spare. But that's the only misstep in this most enjoyable book. (Note: for the much larger story of this region, in which Tibet played a small historical part, see Hopkirk's later masterwork \\"The Great Game.\\")makes that claim). You may be surprised by the fierce, if nave, warlike tendencies of the Tibetans, even their monks. The only problem with this book is Hopkirk's tendency to hold back on many stories. He starts to describe some very interesting tales, like the harsh ordeal of the lone female missionary Susie Rijnhart or the mysterious Japanese spy Narita Yasuteru, only to abruptly claim that the conclusions are outside the scope of the book or more extensively described elsewhere. This is a rather frustrating tease from the author, especially since this book is not that long and there is surely room to spare. But that's the only misstep in this most enjoyable book. (Note: for the much larger story of this region, in which Tibet played a small historical part, see Hopkirk's later masterwork \\"The Great Game.\\")	2002-11-03
1357064:US	52697458	R21EBVDOP5VSGB	0684832801	837753671	The Middle East: A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years	Books	3	13	19	N	N	Unfocused Attempt at a Cultural Synthesis	I have no criticism of Bernard Lewis as a historian, because he has clearly earned his stripes in that department. The problem is with this book's lack of focus and organization. In the preface, Lewis claims that everyone else has adequately written on the political and military sides of Middle Eastern history, so he has decided to focus more on social, cultural, and religious history with this book. Unfortunately, this attempt is damaged by the lack of a focused agenda in the book; while the attempt to cover 2000 years of history quickly does not lead to a handy one-volume compendium (Lewis' likely goal), but a rushed narrative with many holes in it.<br />You can see the major problem by looking at the three major sections into which the book is divided. Parts I, II, and III are straight history with a religious and cultural background, including some valuable insights into basic Islam, and this portion of the book actually works quite well. This portion's focus can be seen in self-explanatory chapter titles like \\"The 'Abassid Caliphate\\" or \\"The Mongol Aftermath.\\" But at the end of Part III, the narrative ends abruptly sometime in the 1600's, when nothing particularly earthshaking happened, and the book suddenly changes to a new focus. Part IV is called \\"Cross-Sections\\" with separate chapters focusing on \\"The State,\\" \\"The Economy\\" and the like. This social information is certainly useful but the abruptly shifting focus of the book is quite distracting. With Part V the historical narrative picks up again, but in a far different fashion than earlier. Now we have a very weak social history, not focusing on politics or even a straight sequence of events. The weak chapter titles here like \\"Challenge\\" and \\"Change\\" indicate the departure from the focused history of the earlier portion of the book. The final chapters gloss over important recent events very quickly (especially the conflicts with Israel and the Persian Gulf War), using events merely as a backdrop to an attempted synthesis of cultural and social trends. Unfortunately, I fear that this is not really Lewis' specialty.<br />With his knowledge and experience, Lewis could certainly create a gigantic history of the Middle East in which all sequential events as well as culture and society could be covered in detail. Such a work would take forever to tackle, but it would certainly be more focused and enlightening than this one.mpted synthesis of cultural and social trends. Unfortunately, I fear that this is not really Lewis' specialty.<br />With his knowledge and experience, Lewis could certainly create a gigantic history of the Middle East in which all sequential events as well as culture and society could be covered in detail. Such a work would take forever to tackle, but it would certainly be more focused and enlightening than this one.	2002-10-30
1358569:US	52697458	R29ZJT3IXW9TKL	0811720381	172901137	Natural Pennsylvania: Exploring the State Forest Natural Areas	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Well Off the Beaten Path in PA	This is a very enjoyable and informative guide to the 61 natural areas in Pennsylvania, which are usually far from the beaten path of the cities, major highways, and even well-known hiking trails. Fergus spent a whole year personally exploring every one of these areas, and proves it with his first-hand descriptions. Therefore this book is based on real experience, and was not written by someone who has never been to the places they're writing about (such as the error-prone Longstreet Highroad Guide to the Pennsylvania Mountains, which I can't totally recommend). As an extensive hiker in PA myself, I've been to some of these natural areas and can attest to Fergus' accuracy. He focuses on the flora, fauna, and topography of these natural areas, and tips on how to get to the more remote ones that may not even be accessible by trail, all in lively prose that walks the fine line between poetic and overly sentimental. Fergus tends to avoid the bad news on some of these areas, especially pollution, which would make the chapters on Little Tinicum Island (near Philly) and Sheets Island Archipelago (almost within sight of Three Mile Island) more informative; plus the complete absence of maps is a problem for the larger natural areas. But still, this book greatly succeeds in making the outdoorsy Pennsylvania fan yearn to visit these hidden secrets.	2002-10-29
1360680:US	52697458	R22V5EBF971WN3	0415926475	43222321	Drug Crazy: How We Got into This Mess and How We Can Get Out	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Quick and Brutal Indictment of the War on Drugs	This is mostly a political and economic history of the war and drugs, and the trends that have made that war a continuous failure ever since its early days a century ago. Mike Gray's most compelling comparison is with the prohibition of alcohol back in 1920's. That unsuccessful movement led to a drastic increase in both liquor consumption and violent crime. With alcohol illegal its value skyrocketed, which in turn attracted violent criminals who kept the supply flowing. Gray amply proves that the lessons of that debacle were not learned, because the exact same thing is happening with the prohibition of drugs. The so-called drug war does not result in less drug use but more criminals - both the violent type who jump on the money train and the harmless casual users (and deserving medical users) who must be arrested even though they have committed a victimless \\"crime\\" in the privacy of their homes. The overwhelming evidence of this failure is there for everyone to see, but the problem is politicians who have turned this all into a moral crusade, while pursuing inept policies that merely feed the prison-industrial complex. Anyone who even tries to address problems with the drug war is said to be on the side of ghoulish junkies and stoners, and have to face a wave of self-righteous indignation from holier-than-thou politicians. Meanwhile the solution is not a black-and-white choice between total prohibition and total legalization. There can be compromises, such as government-controlled distribution like there is with hard liquor (which works by the way - one of the best quotes in this book is from a teenager who says that government-controlled alcohol is far harder to get in school than completely outlawed marijuana).<br />The only problem with this book can be seen in the two parts of Gray's subtitle. The \\"How We Got Into This Mess\\" is described admirably, as described above. Unfortunately the book comes to an end too quickly to really get into the \\"How We Can Get Out\\" portion. Gray's solutions are only the \\"logical\\" outcome of the evidence of failure that he has already presented. His main recommendation is for healthy dialogue to take place using the clear evidence that the drug war is a failure. Sure that makes logical sense, but this is not a logical issue. Politicians preach morality as a cure for an invented crisis that they don't understand, than stand self-righteously above the fray while others bear the costs of the mess they've created. That's not logical. I agree that more dialogue is necessary but something more drastic has to happen before that process begins. I won't pretend to know what that should be, but it will certainly be more momentous than the alternatives Gray gives here.\\" portion. Gray's solutions are only the \\"logical\\" outcome of the evidence of failure that he has already presented. His main recommendation is for healthy dialogue to take place using the clear evidence that the drug war is a failure. Sure that makes logical sense, but this is not a logical issue. Politicians preach morality as a cure for an invented crisis that they don't understand, than stand self-righteously above the fray while others bear the costs of the mess they've created. That's not logical. I agree that more dialogue is necessary but something more drastic has to happen before that process begins. I won't pretend to know what that should be, but it will certainly be more momentous than the alternatives Gray gives here.	2002-10-28
1361811:US	52697458	R1VRUMLSM50R0O	0971394202	70373676	Everything You Know Is Wrong: The Disinformation Guide to Secrets and Lies	Books	5	53	62	N	N	Everything You Read Is Wrong	This book from the folks at Disinformation is generally stronger than its predecessor, \\"You Are Being Lied To.\\" That book was a similar collection of nonconformist articles but attempted to tie them all together under the theme of media manipulation and corporate conspiracies to control public information. That theme didn't work out too well as the book was damaged by whiny conspiracy theorists and bleeding heart crybabies. \\"Everything You Know Is Wrong\\" manages to avoid that problem, which could potentially damage any book with this kind of philosophy, and that's because it doesn't try to make any type of overarching point this time. Therefore this book becomes a more enjoyable and believable collection of articles on subjects that you are unlikely to hear about in the mainstream media.<br />Another strength of this book is its differing viewpoints, as many political persuasions are represented and some of the essays even contradict each other. In a book like this that reacts against mainstream power, you will naturally get a lot of leftism, and that's true in at least four-fifths of this book. However, the right will find representation here too, especially in the essay \\"Watchdog Nation\\" which criticizes anti-racism groups that are mostly acting only in their own self-interest, plus endorsements of books that criticize gun control concepts and the Clinton/Gore administration. Readers of this book who take every single essay at face value, regardless of the reader or writer's political leanings, will find themselves with new well-rounded viewpoints.<br />Regardless, the best essays here are far beyond mere left vs. right politics.  Most notably \\"The Whole Truth About Domestic Violence,\\" which proves that more men are abused than women; \\"Some Lessons from the Underground History of American Education,\\" a truly terrifying expose on the real ideology of public schools (e.g. conformity and indoctrination rather than critical thinking); and \\"Postcards from the Planet of the Freaks,\\" a realistic view on disabilities from the disabled themselves, which you are highly unlikely to see elsewhere. There are a few clunkers though, especially \\"Fear of a Vegan Planet,\\" which starts out well with many well-considered reasons to avoid meat, but in the end states that meat eating is inherently illogical, as is \\"renting oneself out eight hours a day.\\" If this author thinks that making a living is illogical, does it matter if you're a vegan when you can't afford to eat? Fortunately, inanities like this aren't numerous enough to damage the overall success of this book.the Freaks,\\" a realistic view on disabilities from the disabled themselves, which you are highly unlikely to see elsewhere. There are a few clunkers though, especially \\"Fear of a Vegan Planet,\\" which starts out well with many well-considered reasons to avoid meat, but in the end states that meat eating is inherently illogical, as is \\"renting oneself out eight hours a day.\\" If this author thinks that making a living is illogical, does it matter if you're a vegan when you can't afford to eat? Fortunately, inanities like this aren't numerous enough to damage the overall success of this book.	2002-10-27
1366761:US	52697458	R172LOXTZHLUV8	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Doesn't Stand the Test of Time	Mark Twain said that a classic is a book that everybody praises but nobody reads. I'd like to add that a classic is often praised now because it was praised in the past. Some classics are timeless and can make their point in any period, but others are useful for a certain amount of time then lose their effectiveness. \\"Catch-22\\" clearly falls into the second category. When this book was written back in the 50's it was necessary to give the world a reaction to the mythology of World War II. The soldiers in the war were still being worshipped as perfect humans with a perfect love for their country and unlimited bravery and courage to save the world. Surely some of the soldiers were not so perfect and that's what Joseph Heller shows us in this book. In the character of Yossarian, we have a WWII soldier who was not the epitome of courage, but a slacker and malcontent who did everything he could to get out of his duty. But Heller takes this way too far as the book becomes an extremely repetitive parade of soldiers who do nothing but try to weasel their way out of service or stab each other in the back; and officers who are inept bureaucrats who are under-qualified for their positions of authority and are focused on their own self-interest rather than winning the war. With this never-ending parade of idiots, Heller not only makes the statement that some of the fighting men in WWII were not up to the stereotypical ideal. He keeps on repeating the implication that they were ALL unworthy. He makes this point early on but fails to expand on it other than beating it to death repeatedly. While \\"Catch-22\\" is still useful as a good example of non-conformist and subversive literature, it has aged badly. Some \\"classics\\" are relevant in any time period, but the era in which this book's points were truly necessary is long gone.	2002-10-23
1370826:US	52697458	R2FPXBO3M3GK7Q	0764115928	188938909	Barron's How to Prepare for the Gre: Graduate Record Examination (Barron's How to Prepare for the Graduate Record Examination, 14th ed)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Has the Info, but Needs Better Presentation	This Barron's guide to the GRE probably has equivalent information and study tips to the other GRE guides that are available, making it an acceptable guide. This especially applies to the Verbal Ability section and the diagnostic and model tests. The 3500-word dictionary of brainiac words is also useful but takes forever to get through if you tackle it from a study angle. The biggest problem with this guide is the Quantitative (math) Ability section, in which complex solutions are difficult to read and sometimes contain errors and typos. Take this example: \\"x+.25x=1.25x=2000=>y=2000/.75=2666.67.\\" Now imagine that crammed into the middle of a paragraph containing various fonts and typefaces - and this example doesn't even contain square roots, exponents, fractions, or other hard to read symbols. Add to that some flat-out errors (see some of the other reviews here for examples) and the Quantitative section presents some difficulties. The Analytical Ability section falters in some places as it tries to explain how you should \\"infer\\" or \\"deduce\\" answers. I found myself just plain disagreeing with some of the answers in the Analytical section, with no explanation as to why I should agree with the guide's answer. One final humbug in this edition is the 2-page synopsis on the new Analytical Writing portion of the test, which is hidden at the end of the book after about 140 pages of model test information.<br />This guide will surely help you practice adequately for the GRE, but the presentation leaves a little to be desired. Also, you can buy this book with the optional CD-ROM, which gives tips on the current computer-based version of the test. If you have at least competent computer skills, the CD-ROM is unnecessary, so skip it and save some money.	2002-10-19
1371317:US	52697458	R29U4BLV6PA5TJ	0764174711	65247185	How to Prepare for the GRE: Graduate Record Examination with CDROM (Barron's How to Prepare for the Gre Graduate Record Examination)	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Has the Info, but Needs Better Presentation	This Barron's guide to the GRE probably has equivalent information and study tips to the other GRE guides that are available, making it an acceptable guide. This especially applies to the Verbal Ability section and the diagnostic and model tests. The 3500-word dictionary of brainiac words is also useful but takes forever to get through if you tackle it from a study angle. The biggest problem with this guide is the Quantitative (math) Ability section, in which complex solutions are difficult to read and sometimes contain errors and typos. Take this example: \\"x+.25x=1.25x=2000=>y=2000/.75=2666.67.\\" Now imagine that crammed into the middle of a paragraph containing various fonts and typefaces - and this example doesn't even contain square roots, exponents, fractions, or other hard to read symbols. Add to that some flat-out errors (see some of the other reviews here for examples) and the Quantitative section presents some difficulties. The Analytical Ability section falters in some places as it tries to explain how you should \\"infer\\" or \\"deduce\\" answers. I found myself just plain disagreeing with some of the answers in the Analytical section, with no explanation as to why I should agree with the guide's answer. One final humbug in this edition is the 2-page synopsis on the new Analytical Writing portion of the test, which is hidden at the end of the book after about 140 pages of model test information.<br />This guide will surely help you practice adequately for the GRE, but the presentation leaves a little to be desired. Also, you can buy this book with the optional CD-ROM, which gives tips on the current computer-based version of the test. If you have at least competent computer skills, the CD-ROM is unnecessary, so skip it and save some money.	2002-10-19
1371966:US	52697458	R22YNGW97ZDVPD	1874061084	729071766	Manchurian Candidate	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Relentless Political Thriller, A True Classic	Why this book is out of print is a mystery. Track down a used copy or join a nearby library that has one. You won't be disappointed. Richard Condon delivers a masterpiece of political and psychological horror, inspired by the ridiculous heights of the Cold War and the scourge of McCarthyism. The book's tragic protagonist, Raymond Shaw, was a soldier in the Korean War. He was captured by the Chinese and hypnotized and made into a programmable assassin. But the most shocking aspects of the novel are not the brainwashing, but who truly sponsored it and whom Raymond is ultimately destined to assassinate. The intrigue and curve-ball plot of this book send the mind reeling, as poor Raymond is relentlessly manipulated by those who use him, while those who want to save him deal with insurmountable obstacles. For a book written in 1959 it is surprisingly harsh, with nasty political diatribes from Condon along with prostitution, hard drug use, incest, and also a level of sexism that seems over the top today. The most obvious example of that last issue is Raymond's incredibly loathsome mother, whose evil amply propels the story; but she is sometimes a little difficult to believe in her sheer evil megalomania. But other than that, for a political thriller that is impossible to put down, you can't do much better than this classic, and the finale is truly shocking and heartbreaking. This one is well worth tracking down.	2002-10-18
1378187:US	52697458	R2DTLUICWCX34K	0156005050	95435903	Blameless in Abaddon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	2000 Years of Perplexity	In this sequel to *Towing Jehovah* James Morrow continues his well thought-out theological diatribes. Morrow's clearly Atheist theologizing has caused him some controversy in the past, and this book will surely be no exception. Continuing from the last book, God's decomposing two mile-long corpse is still on Earth, now being used at an overpriced amusement park by the Southern Baptists, but that's just the backdrop this time. As the corpse proves God's existence, living or dead, a small-town magistrate named Martin, who was given a raw deal in life, starts a movement to put God on trial for crimes against humanity. That's where the philosophizing starts. Morrow is not an agnostic, who believes nothing, but a very learned Atheist who has deeply studied Christian theology and has likely arrived at Atheism through a process of elimination, finding organized religious tenets unsatisfactory. The competing theories are embodied by the characters in the book, which don't have much substance and mostly exist to debate each side of the theological conundrum. The key concept of the book is Theodicy - the attempt to reconcile good vs. evil (e.g. the presence of evil helps you appreciate goodness, etc.) The characters work their way through this problem, and Morrow even tries to propose a solution. This can be seen as either arrogant, as Morrow deigns to solve problems that have been perplexing philosophers for 2000 years, or sacrilegious by reactionary fundamentalists, or courageous by those who are intrigued by inconsistencies in Christian theory. Whichever side you're on, give this book a chance and draw your own conclusions. You will at least be rewarded with an entertaining story and some intriguing philosophical debate.	2002-10-13
1379984:US	52697458	RMU9RY7ZE7ZLZ	0140298606	80989159	River-Horse: The Logbook of a Boat Across America	Books	3	66	71	N	N	Unique Travelogue Sunk By Pretentious Writing	Of Heat-Moon's previous travel epics, I have not read *PrairyErth* but I did greatly enjoy *Blue Highways* and where that book is lean and to the point, *River-Horse* is big and bloated. Heat-Moon has pulled off a real accomplishment here, travelling across America east-to-west almost entirely in small boats. But you barely notice his rewarding revelations on the acts of traveling and soul searching, the state of America's natural places, and the people he meets. All of these are sunk under a never-ending wave of waterlogged writing.<br />Heat-Moon can't stop piling on his heavy-handed style, with a flood of arcane words that will make you run exasperated to your dictionary. Some examples include jactitation, brummagem, atraxia, atrabilious, genetrix, and lacustrene. Before you recommend use of a thesaurus to the lazy reader, these plodding words actually serve little purpose other than to illustrate Heat-Moon's use of a word-of-the-day calendar on his desk. Then there's soggy prose like &quot;inspiration flowed like the sky&quot; or &quot;in my moustache I can smell river like a sweetly scented woman from night before.&quot; This is all showing off at best, with little reward to the increasingly weary reader.<br />Worst of all is Heat-Moon's impersonal treatment of his crew during the voyage. He combines seven different first-mates (one of whom was a woman) into an anonymous entity called Pilotis that has the same personality throughout the voyage. The same goes for at least two different people called merely Photographer, plus a succession of faceless folk with names like Reporter or Professor. Heat-Moon spends more time naming and describing passersby who he met for five minutes, than these valuable companions who he spent thousands of miles with, and who saved his voyage (and possibly his life) many times. Heat-Moon apparently meant this de-personalization as some sort of literary method to make a grand point about his narrative, but what that point should be he never explains. The result is a disservice to his many valuable companions, while he tries to draw all the attention to himself. This book is a potentially tremendous travelogue that could be fascinating but is only tedious and waterlogged. Heat-Moon's greatest strength is his achievements as a traveler, while his writing is a lesser strength. Unfortunately, this book wastes all its energy on the wrong strength.never explains. The result is a disservice to his many valuable companions, while he tries to draw all the attention to himself. This book is a potentially tremendous travelogue that could be fascinating but is only tedious and waterlogged. Heat-Moon's greatest strength is his achievements as a traveler, while his writing is a lesser strength. Unfortunately, this book wastes all its energy on the wrong strength.	2002-10-11
1388122:US	52697458	RSZBJMYT7GBY1	0738207772	149055787	Sonic Boom	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Answer's Out There Somewhere	While slightly outdated (mid-2001), and displaying some typos as well as Alderman's slightly scatterbrained writing style, this short but effective book is a telling report on how the world of music distribution is experiencing a true upheaval. Unfortunately, nurtured by the free-for-all of the internet revolution, the expectation that all music should be free led to the free file sharing services. File sharing is certainly a great way to stick it to the big companies that have unapologetically ripped of musicians and consumers for decades. But the problem is that artists deserve to be compensated for their music, so free file sharing is not the answer. The rash of lawsuits by the big corporations proved that they only have their own profiteering at heart, and their insistence that they are fighting for artists' rights is a farce. The highlight of this book is an excellent quote from online music pioneer John Barlow to close chapter 1: \\"The greatest constraint on future liberties may not come from government but from corporate legal departments laboring to protect by force what can no longer be protected by practical efficiency or general social consent.\\" That is the angle from which Alderman writes this book. The big labels, through lawsuits and intimidation, refuse to face the fact that they may be toppled by a revolution and have reacted like any fading strong-arm dictator. As soon as someone figures out how to properly compensate the artists, all fans and musicians, as well as culture in general, will benefit beyond comprehension. Alderman doesn't pretend to know the answer, and nobody does anyway, but this book proves aptly that something dramatic is happening in the world of music.	2002-10-04
1390734:US	52697458	R2CAI42D19AJXO	0312278594	289107622	On the Rez	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Uneven, Unfocused Mix of Memoirs and Sociology	This book is not the grand study of reservation life that the title implies, but more of a memoir mixed awkwardly with sociological studies of modern Indian life. The focus is on the Oglala Sioux of the Pine Ridge reservation in South Dakota. Frazier is a white guy with a unique perspective of this area, being long-time friends with an eccentric Sioux named Le War Dance, and having visited the reservation dozens of times. As Frazier reminisces on conversations and adventures with Le War Dance, he includes meaningful musings on the state of Native Americans, the Sioux in particular. For some reason during these memoirs Frazier includes narratives from his own life as well, but what these have to do with the rest of the story is hard to figure. Another source of imbalance is the changing focus of the book. About two-thirds of the way through, Le War Dance is forgotten for a while and the book shifts abruptly to a gushy, worshipful biography of SuAnne Big Crow. SuAnne surely deserves the admiration - she was a high school basketball champion from the reservation who was a great source of inspiration among her divided and downtrodden people, but then died in a car wreck just before graduation. Regardless, the insertion of her story into this book is awkward, as it damages the book's focus and is also not the extensive bio that SuAnne probably deserves. I suggest that Frazier write a full biography on SuAnne as his next project. On the good side, Frazier definitely provides many valuable insights into the lives of modern Native Americans, instead of musings on the glory days of noble savages and brave warriors that you usually get in books about Indians. The current challenges that these people face are a cause of real concern, but Frazier's book is not strong enough to deliver any true sociological revelations.	2002-10-02
1392254:US	52697458	RMWFXNZKSPX7Z	1887208003	965977626	When Corporations Rule the World (Kumarian Press Books for a World That Works)	Books	3	23	27	N	N	The Truth About Corporate Socialism	The most interesting thing about this book was when it first appeared - 1995, just when the late 90's stock market boom was getting started and everybody and their brother were loving corporations to death. Korten was breaking some new ground back then, and this book is now more relevant than ever with our recent corporate carnage,<br />Another very useful aspect of the book is that it highlights the absurdity in conservative political opinions toward corporate power. I won't try to start a left vs. right argument here, but remember that conservatives are always against the concentration of political power and preach a local, populist stance. Conservatives also promote free trade and the rights of corporate self-interest, and that's the paradox. Consider the way that corporations behave. Profits are centralized while costs are inflicted on local people through economic servitude or environmental damage. Corporations are full of middle managers and bureaucrats, with a few executives holding vastly more power than legions of workers (i.e. regular folks). Remove the economic angle from those concepts and replace them with socio-political power, and what do you have - socialism! Isn't that what conservatives hate with all their hearts? And speaking of socialism, the huge tax breaks and subsidies provided by the government to keep corporations artificially profitable are the biggest socialist handout in the world, and is thousands of times larger than the welfare given to poor people, which is the common conservative whipping boy for \\"wasteful\\" spending.<br />Korten does an excellent job bringing these troubling trends to light. Unfortunately this book's execution leaves something to be desired. Korten proves his points early on but can't stop giving examples, leading to a highly repetitive and predictable list of evil corporate acts and social problems. Korten is also obsessed with proving his conservative background, as his thesis is relevant in ways far beyond mere left vs. right politics. However, this merely shows his paranoia about debunking future critics, at the expense of enlightening the present reader. And finally, Korten's solutions to the current problems of corporate domination are weak, consisting mostly of platitudes about individual people \\"taking the power back\\" at the local level. This is not the solution, but the utopia that would come after the solution. That utopia is the end, not the means. Fixing the current system (which badly needs to be fixed) does not require pie-in-the-sky idealism, but real drastic and meaningful events. Maybe the collapse of gigantic and so-called indestructible companies like Enron or Worldcom will become a trend that induces real change.ft vs. right politics. However, this merely shows his paranoia about debunking future critics, at the expense of enlightening the present reader. And finally, Korten's solutions to the current problems of corporate domination are weak, consisting mostly of platitudes about individual people \\"taking the power back\\" at the local level. This is not the solution, but the utopia that would come after the solution. That utopia is the end, not the means. Fixing the current system (which badly needs to be fixed) does not require pie-in-the-sky idealism, but real drastic and meaningful events. Maybe the collapse of gigantic and so-called indestructible companies like Enron or Worldcom will become a trend that induces real change.	2002-09-30
1394165:US	52697458	R359DRNI9XH7XL	0156002108	367931854	Towing Jehovah (Harvest Book)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Just Try to Digest This Food for Thought	I became aware of James Morrow because I happen to live in the same town as him. He's made the local news a few times as his books have been banned by religious conservatives. This is my first novel of his and I can see what the fuss is about. There are some truly hysterical plot elements in this story, like God's corpse floating in the ocean, a sinful civilization rising from the sea, and a rambunctious World War II reenactment that ends up with as much carnage as the real thing. There are some gaps in the plot madness, and a few boners like two characters near the end of the book observing the Milky Way from the middle of Manhattan (remember: light pollution). But those glitches are minor. While your mind reels at the bizarre concepts of the plot, Morrow injects some heavy sermonizing on the state of Christianity, from a clear rationalist and atheist perspective. This is the source of the religious trouble, but folks who ban books think you are too weak to think for yourself. There is real food for thought here, and while it might not be digestible for everybody, you can still find this novel to be one of the more bizarre and entertaining things you've read in a while.	2002-09-29
1394584:US	52697458	R30QXNZWE0VMH7	0140178244	389297184	Cadillac Desert: The American West and Its Disappearing Water, Revised Edition	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Pork Barrels vs. Nature	Before beginning this book, note that it is not simply a list of environmental complaints. Marc Reisner has a conservationist background, but here he is acting as a reporter and not an essayist. Hence this book if a political history of water projects in the American west, with little environmentalism to be found, except at a very high level. And what we have is the story of some truly bizarre politics. Most of the west can naturally support very few people, so the US government has forced civilization upon it through irrigation schemes that are mostly made up of more and more dams built to bigger and bigger proportions. How else would you explain the presence of major cities like Las Vegas, Phoenix, and Los Angeles in the middle of deserts, or lush green farmlands in areas that had been nothing but sand for millennia?<br />The Army Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation led the way, starting with a modest program of increasing water supplies to small farmers who were bravely pioneering the Wild West. But in an era of huge pork barrel politics and a paranoid desire to conquer nature, these plans spiraled into megalomania. The Corps and Bureau competed with each other to build the biggest projects, and schemes were designed to keep engineers working and to keep money flowing to the pockets of campaign contributors. Thus projects were built that were ridiculous wastes of money (in some cases, delivering 10 cents of benefit for every taxpayer dollar spent), increased environmental devastation with no benefits, and were not even wanted by the people they were supposed to benefit. Meanwhile the pork barrel politics led to bizarre ideologies, with conservatives demanding subsidies paid by taxpayers to cover the losses of uneconomical schemes (the worst form of Socialism), and Democrats begging for projects that benefited a few wealthy corporate farmers while destroying the livelihoods of vast numbers of regular folks. In the greatest irony of all, Westerners beg the federal government to continue propping up a civilization that has little chance to stand on its own, while continually spouting Western rhetoric about distrusting the Feds back east.<br />Reisner delivers a compelling political history of these potentially disastrous trends, which will result in little water conservation in the long run, and even encourage more wasteful use. The only problem is that Reisner is a rather arrogant writer, sometimes falling on the wrong side of the fine line between sarcastic-funny and sarcastic-condescending. This book also drifts into repetitive examples of bad water schemes that merely repeat the main points that were laid down long before. But despite those minor problems, this book drives home the point that pork barrel politics is making a natural deficit of water into a potential human catastrophe that is bound to happen sooner or later.g the federal government to continue propping up a civilization that has little chance to stand on its own, while continually spouting Western rhetoric about distrusting the Feds back east. <br />Reisner delivers a compelling political history of these potentially disastrous trends, which will result in little water conservation in the long run, and even encourage more wasteful use. The only problem is that Reisner is a rather arrogant writer, sometimes falling on the wrong side of the fine line between sarcastic-funny and sarcastic-condescending. This book also drifts into repetitive examples of bad water schemes that merely repeat the main points that were laid down long before. But despite those minor problems, this book drives home the point that pork barrel politics is making a natural deficit of water into a potential human catastrophe that is bound to happen sooner or later.	2002-09-28
1398408:US	52697458	RHUW9PNUCZQ4J	1570625190	568909588	The Tao of Physics: An Exploration of the Parallels between Modern Physics and Eastern Mysticism (25th Anniversary Edition)	Books	3	174	198	N	N	A Classic of Deep Thought, but Not Quite Convincing	In this book Fritjof Capra dwells on the parallels between modern physics and traditional Eastern thought. In classical physics and in most Western thought, the tendency is to break down the universe into smaller and smaller objects and systems that are supposedly self-contained and only interact in a linear cause-and-effect pattern. These views started to break down with Einstein's relativity, which shows the duality (or inseparability) of space and time, and even more so with quantum mechanics. The key aspect of QM used here is Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle, which basically states that you can't observe a subatomic particle (or possibly any part of the universe) without interacting with it. It turns out that these new physical concepts of duality and interconnectedness, while a major shock to Western minds, are right in line with what has been thought in the East for thousands of years. In fact, many modern theoretical physicists have become interested in Eastern mysticism to help interpret their seemingly strange findings.<br />With that aside, this book is not quite convincing as Capra attempts to draw these parallels into an overall unified theory, and unfortunately he is quite a dry and repetitive writer. The book starts usefully with an intro to modern physics, then intros to the main schools of Eastern mysticism (Buddhism, Hinduism, Taoism). Things start to break down however, in the third part of the book as Capra begins to analyze the parallels between the two worlds. Capra tends to explain the same concepts again and again is slightly different ways, in an attempt to beef up the book, only to reveal the shaky foundation on which these concepts stand. Alas, while there are certainly intriguing parallels, the grand connection fails to materialize as the book drags on. When this book first appeared in the 70's, it kicked off a new mini-revolution of deep thoughts, and Capra is surely on to something big here. Unfortunately this book doesn't quite bring home the true revolution in Western thinking. Perhaps the last 30 years of deep thoughts that this book inspired will lead to a true manifesto by Capra or one of his followers, but this book can only be seen as a good start.home the true revolution in Western thinking. Perhaps the last 30 years of deep thoughts that this book inspired will lead to a true manifesto by Capra or one of his followers, but this book can only be seen as a good start.	2002-09-25
1403699:US	52697458	R2W1KO3RIDS9Z1	0393321932	780900099	Eco-Economy	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Great Start	Lester Brown surely deserves the accolade on the cover of this book proclaiming that he's one of the world's great thinkers. As head of the Earth Policy Institute, he definitely knows what he's talking about. He even has real experience in ecological economics, being directly involved in a plan to save India from a massive famine in the 1960's. The focus of this book is the failure of current economic theories in assessing true environmental costs. Modern theory assumes that the environment is an unlimited store of raw materials with no costs. Corporations make the profits from resource extraction while having no regard for the costs, which are usually inflicted on local people who have to deal with damaged ecosystems. Meanwhile government subsidies encourage a wide range of destructive practices, usually in misguided attempts to create jobs. For example, subsidizing so many fishermen to create small business, which leads to overfishing. The first part of this book is a little predictable with a long list of environmental tragedies, and the accompanying repetitive statistics, but the point is we can no longer deny that the current economic system directly results in the heedless destruction of the earth's ecosystems.<br />Brown then proceeds to a solid study of the ways to overhaul economic theory to accurately reflect costs to the environment. And this is not just wishful thinking, but real theory backed up with statistics. The most beneficial programs would not be the prohibition of certain activities and products, but the use of tax breaks and more appropriate subsidies to encourage ecological behavior through free market activity. An example is a tax on virgin paper that reflects its real costs (including the loss of all the benefits of a functioning forest ecosystem), and a break on recycled paper. Brown gives numerous examples of isolated programs that have led to great success in certain countries, usually in Europe and Japan, but also in some surprising countries in the developing world like Brazil or Thailand. While Brown's economic theory is solid and backed by sufficient evidence, the only thing missing from this book is more focus on political realities. While citizens and even visionary corporations can help bring about the new eco-economy, there will be real trouble with reactionary politicians who are afraid of change, and lobbyists who throw money around to preserve the status quo. Brown focuses on this problem a little, but more strategies for this problem are necessary. Perhaps that can be the subject of Brown's next book, which would then provide a powerful one-two punch in combination with this one. As the drive for a better environmental future penetrates international politics more and more, this book will be a classic for policy makers and concerned citizens alike.tries in the developing world like Brazil or Thailand. While Brown's economic theory is solid and backed by sufficient evidence, the only thing missing from this book is more focus on political realities. While citizens and even visionary corporations can help bring about the new eco-economy, there will be real trouble with reactionary politicians who are afraid of change, and lobbyists who throw money around to preserve the status quo. Brown focuses on this problem a little, but more strategies for this problem are necessary. Perhaps that can be the subject of Brown's next book, which would then provide a powerful one-two punch in combination with this one. As the drive for a better environmental future penetrates international politics more and more, this book will be a classic for policy makers and concerned citizens alike.	2002-09-19
1406124:US	52697458	R1M7EOOA9QVM40	0060938374	962579781	Stairway to Heaven: Led Zeppelin Uncensored	Books	1	82	105	N	N	An Embarrassment For Everyone Involved	There is little reason for this book to exist except for Richard Cole to make money. Sure he was Led Zeppelin's trusty road manager for many years, but this is little justification for him to spend the next several decades rehashing the band's sordid past for his own gain. He did this previously by being the key contributor to Stephen Davis' inferior Zep biography \\"Hammer of the Gods.\\" Cole should be grateful to Zep for employing him for so many years, and should value their friendship enough to let the past stay in the past. The surviving members of the band are now mature older men, and while they surely have fond memories of their glory days, they probably know it's time to lead respectable middle-aged lives. Why can't Cole do the same? The guy is pushing sixty. Should he still be going on and on about his wild days with his crazy pals three decades ago?<br />Yes, Zep was the wildest party band ever. Yes they consumed gigantic amounts of illicit substances. Yes they trashed hotel rooms. Yes they degraded women. Yawn. This is all common knowledge. The amount of time Zep was on tour was probably less than 25% of their overall working time as a band. The time they spent writing and recording their incredible music was much greater, and that's what matters now. Their music is timeless and is their true legacy, while their touring exploits are vaguely funny stories at best. Granted, Cole shows some empathy in his treatment of John Bonham's exploits, gaining some insight into the inner weaknesses that drove the drummer to an early grave. On the other hand, his treatment of John Paul Jones is sheer vindictiveness, trying to cut Jones' image as the levelheaded member of the band down to size. Cole's coverage of Page and Plant is merely elaboration on what is already known, purely for profit.<br />Do not buy this book. If you do, you're encouraging Cole to make more money by living in the distant past, using his fortunate connection with famous people for his own gain. In this book Cole has embarrassed himself by stabbing his old friends in the back for some easy money. He has embarrassed the reader by assuming that this sordid material is useful or funny to the faithful Zep fan. Worst of all, he has embarrassed Led Zeppelin. Fortunately, the music will remain long after this useless book is forgotten.<br />P.S. The use of Led Zeppelin's most famous and brilliant song for the title of this atrocious book is a travesty.this book Cole has embarrassed himself by stabbing his old friends in the back for some easy money. He has embarrassed the reader by assuming that this sordid material is useful or funny to the faithful Zep fan. Worst of all, he has embarrassed Led Zeppelin. Fortunately, the music will remain long after this useless book is forgotten.<br />P.S. The use of Led Zeppelin's most famous and brilliant song for the title of this atrocious book is a travesty.	2002-09-17
1407432:US	52697458	RPL2COOE9V7OO	1568360223	600103002	The Great Game: The Struggle for Empire in Central Asia (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Some Empires Never Learn	Here Peter Hopkirk gives us a very entertaining history on the Great Game, the sort-of cold war that took place between Russia and England over the lawless lands of Central Asia. England was incessantly paranoid about losing its tenuous grip on India and all of its vast riches, always worrying about who would try to invade it. The prime suspect was Russia, who at first had few designs on India, but later decided to use the British fears of invasion to play a game of political supremacy and intrigue with England. It hardly mattered that a Russian invasion of India was highly unlikely due to the thousands of miles of horrendous deserts, impenetrable mountains, inscrutable local politics, and treacherous tribes that lay between.<br />The resulting Great Game is strangely interesting when viewed from the present day. The two empires engaged in more than 100 years of paranoia, ethnic chauvinism, heavy-handed diplomacy, threats of invasion, espionage, skullduggery and never-ending political intrigue. The hapless nations that were caught between were repeatedly invaded even if they were peaceful, with their natives losing the greatest number of lives, and their rulers given a black-or-white choice in choosing sides between two far-off empires whose conflict had little to do with themselves, except for the fact that both sides used them as pawns. Does any of this sound familiar? It's true that those who don't know history are doomed to repeat it, with the Americans taking the place of the British in the next episode. Also of great interest is that the tripping point for both sides in the Great Game was the one and only Afghanistan. Both sides vastly underestimated the toughness of this rugged kingdom and didn't bother to figure out its internal politics. During the Great Game Russia couldn't get close to Afghanistan, while the British were decisively defeated there three times. Noboby learned this lesson either, given the Soviet disaster there in the 1980's. This makes you wonder what will become of the current events there!<br />Peter Hopkirk proves himself as a great writer of history, with a conversational and suspense-filled style that keeps the pages turning. While he is an Englishman and understandably leans a little in that direction during this book, he gives plenty of coverage to the other players in the Great Game and usually manages to avoid passing judgment. His coverage of some of the fascinating non-military and non-political players, such as the many intrepid adventurers, explorers, and merchants who got involved adds a great human dimension to the book. This a great history book for those who like to see heroes in action, while those in power just never seem to learn their lesson!wonder what will become of the current events there!<br />Peter Hopkirk proves himself as a great writer of history, with a conversational and suspense-filled style that keeps the pages turning. While he is an Englishman and understandably leans a little in that direction during this book, he gives plenty of coverage to the other players in the Great Game and usually manages to avoid passing judgment. His coverage of some of the fascinating non-military and non-political players, such as the many intrepid adventurers, explorers, and merchants who got involved adds a great human dimension to the book. This a great history book for those who like to see heroes in action, while those in power just never seem to learn their lesson!	2002-09-16
1411800:US	52697458	R32R3V6RE04BTU	0618127445	830672792	Water: The Fate of Our Most Precious Resource	Books	4	41	43	N	N	Easy to Swallow, but with No Additives	This easy to read and conversational book can be used as an introduction to the fate of water supplies around the world and their impact on human societies. de Villiers takes us on a chapter-by-chapter dissertation first on the technical aspects of water issues, such as the mechanics of groundwater and dams. Then we proceed to selected examples of water crises around the globe, such as China's dilemma of having too much where it's not needed and too little where it is needed, or the hideous catastrophe of the Aral Sea in the former USSR.<br />The author takes an admirably middle-of-the-road stance here and usually lets the facts speak for themselves, with just a little bit of opinionating. But his opinions are still quite moderate and level-headed, as he doesn't align himself with either unyielding environmentalists or extreme free trade proponents, both of which he accurately condemns as having very narrow outlooks on the real world. Some of de Villiers' key observations concern the water wars that will probably start erupting in coming years in dry regions of the world. Two countries will probably spend more money in a single day of war than it takes to improve water supplies for both of them for decades to come. Also, de Villiers drives home the point that the worrisome decline of fresh water around the globe is not due to greedy businessmen, corrupt politicians, or greens who refuse to let it be used. It's just the natural outcome of humans living like humans. Therefore real human cooperation across all societies is necessary to address the problem.<br />Unfortunately, the author's chapter-by-chapter approach serves only as an introduction to separate topics of interest, without very much substance behind each one. Also, this subject requires harder economics, politics, and sociology than de Villiers provides here. Therefore this book can best be used as an introduction to these issues before you dive into much more specific books like \\"Rivers of Empire\\" by Worster or \\"Cadillac Desert\\" by Reisner (focusing on the American West), or the works of the Worldwatch Institute for the international story.ster or \\"Cadillac Desert\\" by Reisner (focusing on the American West), or the works of the Worldwatch Institute for the international story.	2002-09-12
1416010:US	52697458	R94V0EPFRV4K0	0802135587	549818269	Che Guevara: A Revolutionary Life	Books	4	176	201	N	N	An Important, but Rambling, Political Bio	With a figure this inspirational and controversial, it's amazing that no authoritative biography appeared on Che Guevara until Anderson completed this one three decades after his death. Anderson has really delivered an impressive and strongly researched bio into this interesting character. We learn that Che had a comfortable middle-class upbringing in Argentina and even earned a medical degree, but ended up fighting for the world's downtrodden. He also had severe asthma but still managed to become a rugged jungle revolutionary. After traveling around Latin America he ended up in Cuba as Castro's right-hand man during the revolution. This episode in Che's career contributes to the main problem of this book however. More than half of the book is dedicated to the years just before and after Castro's seizure of power in 1959. Che certainly had a large part to play here, but his life story is lost in Anderson's coverage of Cuban events and politics during those years. Thus for a while the book is no longer a biography but a political history that is only somewhat related to the main subject. Apparently in his research on Che, Anderson unearthed so much information on the Cuban revolution that he wanted to use all of it, and accidentally wrote a second book on Cuban history and placed it in the middle of this one. This is still useful if you're interested in that topic, but as a result this book becomes far more rambling, long-winded, and unfocused than it should be.<br />On the other hand, in the rest of the book Anderson definitely succeeds in showing all sides of Che's personality, both good and bad. Like the best of biographers, Anderson doesn't judge his subject and lets the facts speak for themselves. And what we have is a highly contradictory character. Che was admirably committed to his beliefs, but this commitment was so strong that his beliefs became unyielding and dogmatic. He was an exceptional leader of men but a horrendous politician, so he earned fanatical devotion from his followers but alienated everyone else. He personified the fatal flaw of all Communists by professing a love for the vague mass called \\"The People,\\" but when it came to individual persons he persecuted (and sometimes executed) anyone who didn't follow his beliefs to the letter. While he was certainly a key player in the Cuban revolution, and Castro couldn't have done the job without him, Che accomplished little after that as he tried to inspire revolutions around the world. He couldn't accept the fact that his pie-in-the-sky dream of uniting all the world's oppressed peoples couldn't possibly work in reality, both for logistical reasons and because of the differences in people's political beliefs. But Che certainly had plenty of charisma and devotion, and that is still a pretty good reason for him to be inspirational to this day. However, his legions of admirers may want to read this book and learn more about what he really did - and didn't - accomplish.devotion from his followers but alienated everyone else. He personified the fatal flaw of all Communists by professing a love for the vague mass called \\"The People,\\" but when it came to individual persons he persecuted (and sometimes executed) anyone who didn't follow his beliefs to the letter. While he was certainly a key player in the Cuban revolution, and Castro couldn't have done the job without him, Che accomplished little after that as he tried to inspire revolutions around the world. He couldn't accept the fact that his pie-in-the-sky dream of uniting all the world's oppressed peoples couldn't possibly work in reality, both for logistical reasons and because of the differences in people's political beliefs. But Che certainly had plenty of charisma and devotion, and that is still a pretty good reason for him to be inspirational to this day. However, his legions of admirers may want to read this book and learn more about what he really did - and didn't - accomplish.	2002-09-08
1423190:US	52697458	R2OO27HKHG0LAN	0802713726	726461342	Sahara: A Natural History	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Fascinating but Dry Take on a Dry Land	Here is a very intriguing travel book about a land that few Westerners have ever traveled through. The Sahara has a fearsome reputation as a sterile deathtrap that lasts for thousands of miles, and some areas really do live up to that stereotype. But as this book unfolds we learn that the Sahara is far from just never-ending sand dunes without a trace of vegetation or water to be found over entire nations. In fact the dunes alternate with fascinating and unexpected landscapes - like vast plains as hard and featureless as a parking lot, dry riverbeds where water obviously flowed not long ago, huge and imposing mountain ranges, large fields of bizarre rock formations, and even the occasional trickling waterfall or scraggly forest. We also learn of the curious people who inhabit the Sahara, many of whom are still nomads and even continue the caravan tradition in this day and age. The authors take a clinical approach to describing this eerie region, giving a chapter-by-chapter dissertation on natural features, and then people and politics. This research-oriented approach to writing leads to a plethora of fascinating facts and anecdotes, but prose that is about as dry as the landscape itself, with the authors never peeking out from behind their reporting to add a little humanity to their work. This trend is alleviated a little toward the end of the book, especially during the study of the enigmatic Tuareg people. While this book is definitely high on surprises and fascinating facts on the true nature of the Sahara, it's a little low on personality too.	2002-09-01
1426874:US	52697458	R11YFV2FL1OZUL	0786710934	44968230	Anatomy of Greed: The Unshredded Truth from an Enron Insider	Books	5	8	11	N	N	First Enron Casualty to Get Revenge!	Brian Cruver was an expendable middle manager in one of Enron's flimsy business ventures, and got laid off when the company went into its infamous bankruptcy. So in this book we get an antidote to the far more common news accounts of Enron that have focused on the plight of ripped-off stockholders or the criminal actions of the executives. In this very readable and unexpectedly funny book, Cruver describes the collapse of the company from the point of view of hapless employees who only knew a little about what was going on, but couldn't do anything about it as they were too far away from the real power. We also get great insights into the plight of the thousands of laid off employees who had to comprehend the debacle they had witnessed, and try to shake off their reputation as former \\"Enronians.\\"<br />As a sort-of insider, Cruver has unique insights into the bizarre Enron corporate culture that demanded profits at the expense of ethics or even common sense. Cruver theorizes that the root of this evil was the company's ridiculous peer-review process, in which getting a favorable rating meant keeping your job, and the rating was tied to your generation of profits above all else. Thus every single employee was under immense pressure to inflate profit reports, ignore bad news, and crush all their co-workers. This went all the way to the top, as executives went to the extremes of unethical behavior to increase \\"shareholder\\" value. Executives also saw the whole company as a way to enrich themselves, through shady business ventures, partnerships with non-existent companies and entities, and a brazen disregard for accounting rules. Thus we have a group of greedy and power-hungry execs who forgot that they were running a real business with employees, customers, and vendors as they gluttonized themselves.<br />Cruver does a great job describing the basics of Enron's disastrous accounting shenanigans, that made the company artificially prosperous before collapsing like a house of cards, without losing the reader in technical jargon. He also aptly describes the intense hatred that employees developed for execs like Ken Lay, Jeff Skilling, and Andy Fastow, who all got extremely wealthy by essentially stealing from the public market and shafting their employees. Cruver has relieved his unemployment with this highly readable book that provides many keen insights, with a dryly sarcastic humor, into the Enron disaster that you probably won't find elsewhere. I understand that a movie will now be made from this book. Looks like Cruver has himself a fresh new career.of cards, without losing the reader in technical jargon. He also aptly describes the intense hatred that employees developed for execs like Ken Lay, Jeff Skilling, and Andy Fastow, who all got extremely wealthy by essentially stealing from the public market and shafting their employees. Cruver has relieved his unemployment with this highly readable book that provides many keen insights, with a dryly sarcastic humor, into the Enron disaster that you probably won't find elsewhere. I understand that a movie will now be made from this book. Looks like Cruver has himself a fresh new career.	2002-08-28
1432872:US	52697458	R3BZ1WWRMXCPPF	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	4	1	1	N	N	America's a Bad Land For Gods	I'm new to Neil Gaiman, having only read \\"Good Omens\\" before, about four years ago. With \\"American Gods\\" I might become inspired to truly dive into this author's rich body of work. This book has a very creative treatise. Old pagan gods still live on as destitute characters in the real world, as long as a few isolated pockets of people still venerate them. Meanwhile, really old gods that are completely forgotten by humanity have disappeared into oblivion. The major religions couldn't even obliterate these decrepit old pagan gods for good, but the real gods of modern America may finally do it - the harsh gods of money and technology. The straight man in the novel is a hapless ex-con named Shadow, who eventually realizes that the bizarre characters he keeps running into are those decaying pagan gods who need his help in their struggle. Shadow also eventually bumbles into the realization that these gods are allying themselves with him for a greater purpose. The concepts behind this book are indeed fascinating and highly creative. Unfortunately the book must be docked one star because the action peters out towards the end, and the anti-climax takes way too long wrapping up a bunch of boring subplots. But still, Neil Gaiman is clearly one of the modern masters of innovative, speculative fiction.	2002-08-22
1442675:US	52697458	RQTSKNEMCDD7M	0553293362	834333861	Second Foundation	Books	5	22	24	N	N	An Exciting Web of Intrigue to Close the Trilogy	Asimov's classic original trilogy comes to a close in this ambitious finale. Here Asimov has really gone over the top with political and intellectual intrigue, which propels the two main plot elements. As with the two previous Foundation novels, there are actually two shorter stories here that take place decades apart. In this installment Hari Seldon's plan gets back on track after being disrupted by the mutant known as the Mule, with the mythical Second Foundation starting to peek out from behind the scenes. Who works for whom, who's a traitor or not, and whether or not the Second Foundation even really exists are all intricately played out by a series of intelligent and conspiratorial characters in relentlessly tangled webs of intrigue. In fact, this book has the most well-defined characters yet to appear in the Foundation series, especially the young Arcadia. The original Foundation saga is wrapped up nicely here as the original trilogy comes to a close. Of course, Asimov's creation is so expansive that there was plenty of room for more speculation and development of the story, leading to the prequels and sequels that Asimov continued to crank out for this classic series.	2002-08-13
1446442:US	52697458	R27ZASLVIZM5HZ	0062737384	509103202	The World's Most Dangerous Places	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The World's Most Dangerous Book	Some people who are actually adventure travelers will use this book as an encyclopedia to look up info on certain god-forsaken locations before their next insane journey. The rest of us can also get a kick out of reading this massive tome straight through, for a great geography and politics lesson on places you probably know almost nothing about. We get a good 300 pages of background info for world travelers of any type, including how to give bribes (necessary in most of the world unfortunately), avoid nasty diseases, or report on war zones. There are also some funny passages on what do if you are busted for drug possession. The DP crew certainly doesn't advocate drug use or transport, but this info will be useful to those counter-culture dudes who like to trek through the Himalayas or Sahara.<br />First, I will have to warn you that this book is overflowing with typos and grammatical errors, indicating a severe deficiency in the editing department. Statistics and factoids tend to be repeated in adjoining paragraphs, sometimes inconsistently. Names of foreign people and places tend to appear under multiple spellings. Even basic fact checking seems to be lacking. For example, in a timeline of events in the history of Cambodia, the birth of Pol Pot is listed as 1928, while a subsequent entry in the same timeline states that he died in 1998 at age 73 (do the math). That's just one example of many that can cause confusion for the careful reader. The book's sheer size surely makes editing a real challenge, but hopefully this problem will be looked at more closely in future editions.<br />The meat of the book consists of chapters dealing specifically with dangerous countries, and a few non-countries. Political and historical background on the current dismal situation, dangerous people and locations, and how to get in and out provide huge amounts of essential info for travelers, and fascinating trivia for the rest of us. Pelton does not hold back his feelings - watch for his scathingly sarcastic and opinionated musings on the situations in these dismal places, as well as whatever Western superpowers helped create the mess. People of certain political philosophies will surely disagree with Pelton's stance in many places. But he's been there - you haven't! The most rewarding portions of this book are field reports from some of the countries/areas covered, written by Pelton or members of his team after really traveling to these areas, often at extreme personal peril. The best is a harrowing account of a trip to Chechnya (yes it's still bad there even after the Western media got bored with the story), in which Pelton barely manages to reach the border after being surrounded by trigger-happy Russian soldiers.<br />Pelton has given us a fascinating book with many potential uses, and not just for travelers or curious readers. It might just be useful for international policy makers as well.is scathingly sarcastic and opinionated musings on the situations in these dismal places, as well as whatever Western superpowers helped create the mess. People of certain political philosophies will surely disagree with Pelton's stance in many places. But he's been there - you haven't! The most rewarding portions of this book are field reports from some of the countries/areas covered, written by Pelton or members of his team after really traveling to these areas, often at extreme personal peril. The best is a harrowing account of a trip to Chechnya (yes it's still bad there even after the Western media got bored with the story), in which Pelton barely manages to reach the border after being surrounded by trigger-happy Russian soldiers. <br />Pelton has given us a fascinating book with many potential uses, and not just for travelers or curious readers. It might just be useful for international policy makers as well.	2002-08-09
1454535:US	52697458	R2YRYSXQ4NTPXS	038503007X	778182386	Basic Teachings of the Great Philosophers	Books	4	38	41	N	N	A Comprehensive But Dry Reference	If you are in search of a handy reference work that gives fundamental summaries of the main theories of western philosophy, this book functions adequately. Most of the major philosophers, or at least the major philosophical movements in history, are consulted for their theories on fundamental questions. These include the basic college course stuff like the nature of the universe, good vs. evil, free will, and the like. The thinkers covered stretch from Plato, Aristotle and the other Greek immortals, to the lesser ancient schools, on through the middle ages to relatively recent philosophers such as Kant and Spinoza. A useful bonus is a biographical paragraph in the appendix on every thinker whose work is used in the book. The only flaw with this book is that it was written by a professor back in 1942, and is presented in the dry, humorless, and didactically professional writing style that prevailed in that day.	2002-08-02
1454960:US	52697458	R35ZNGJQUEUURU	0553293370	834333861	Foundation and Empire	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Slightly Problematic Second Installment of the Trilogy	The classic Foundation trilogy continues on pace in this second installment. The first half of this book is rather flat with uninspiring political wrangles and a story of the Empire's last general who is defeated by the Foundation and is never mentioned again. This episode has little effect on the overall flow of the story and is a curious piece of filler in this otherwise strong trilogy. However, the second half of this book, taking place many decades later, more than makes up for it. Here we learn that Hari Seldon's once flawless predictions on the course of humanity throughout the galaxy are starting to break down, because of the passage of huge amounts of time and the introduction of an unforeseen variable. This variable is a mutant known as The Mule, who has strange mental powers that are outside the realm of Seldon's psychohistory and throw his ancient predictions out of whack. Soon both the Foundation and the Empire are in ruins, and barbarism reigns throughout the galaxy. Only the mysterious Second Foundation, which has not been heard from since Seldon's day, can possibly help. Whether or not the Second Foundation can save the galaxy from the dark ages, and whether this is all really a part of Seldon's plan after all, are questions that arise in this book but are not answered. Thus we have an excellent intellectual cliffhanger that gives a great reason to continue to the third installment of the trilogy.<br />There are two strange occurrences in this book that speak volumes on the time period in which Asimov wrote it, that being the 1940's. First, there is a prominent female character in this book, which was nearly unheard of in the sci-fi of that area. Furthermore, Asimov writes as if this is an amazing occurrence, and other characters are shocked and uncomfortable with this woman's status as an \\"equal\\" among the male characters around her. This sure seems strange today. Was Asimov slyly commenting on the state of women's rights back in mid-century, or did he think he was making a grand statement about the future? Either way, the sentiment is oddly outdated and even more oddly takes place in the distant future of humanity, where I would hope things would have progressed. Finally, in the second-to-last line of the book, Asimov inserts a rather sick dirty joke through the use of a sly double entendre (the key word is \\"mule\\").. Back in 1952 Asimov probably thought he was making a goofy in-joke to his learned friends that would not be caught by the general public. If that's the case, the joke in question seems extremely silly and predictable today, and brings the book to a close that is rather difficult to take seriously.he think he was making a grand statement about the future? Either way, the sentiment is oddly outdated and even more oddly takes place in the distant future of humanity, where I would hope things would have progressed. Finally, in the second-to-last line of the book, Asimov inserts a rather sick dirty joke through the use of a sly double entendre (the key word is \\"mule\\").. Back in 1952 Asimov probably thought he was making a goofy in-joke to his learned friends that would not be caught by the general public. If that's the case, the joke in question seems extremely silly and predictable today, and brings the book to a close that is rather difficult to take seriously.	2002-08-02
1454967:US	52697458	R1UZMYU2S8RQBC	0440174643	633917650	Roots (Dell Book)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Deserves A Valued Place in History	With a book as socially important as \\"Roots\\" you must focus on two things as you read. First, consider the book on its own literary merits and quality, as you would with any other book. But in this case you must also take account of the book's importance to American culture and society. The importance of \\"Roots\\" is beyond reproach and it clearly deserves its reputation as a classic. The way this book has illuminated the African-American historical experience is obvious and can't be denied, and the sweep of this novel is up to the challenge.<br />Outside of the imposing social importance of this book though, there are a few things to quibble about if you just look at this book on its own strengths. In its attempt to cover seven generations of an extended family, the book is certainly lopsided, with a huge amount of space given to Kunta Kinte, and less and less to each successive generation. Of course, this was a choice of Haley's in order to keep the book to a manageable length, and Kunta's story is certainly the most dramatic, but you are left with many unanswered questions about the lives of his descendants. Kunta's early life back in Africa takes up the first fifth of the book, and this section is overlong and difficult to get through due to its lack of suspense. Kunta's happy, proud life, along with that of his village, are described in such an overly sentimental way (I hesitate to use the word \\"sappy,\\" though it comes dangerously close) that you are left with the suspicion that Haley is trying to play cheerleader for the softer side of African history. Of course this was necessary back when Haley wrote the book, as ancient African cultures were barely appreciated at the time, and historians still mostly thought that Africans had spent thousands of years doing nothing until the Europeans arrived. So Haley has done a service in his coverage of Kunta's childhood by using solid African history as the backdrop, but the picture is just a little too rosy for belief. One other flaw with Haley's coverage of this period concerns the African role in the slave trade. It is now common knowledge that the slave trade got off the ground because a small number of white traders recruited vast numbers of Africans to round up their countrymen and bring them to the slave ships. This was the tragic outcome of inter-tribal rivalries, with the recruited slave raiders unaware of the horrific implications of their actions. This phenomenon is mentioned in passing, though Haley suspiciously fails to dwell on its significance, as if it were too embarrassing.<br />Those minor flaws aside, the book becomes impossible to put down when Kunta's life takes a tragic turn as he is kidnapped into slavery. Here is where we begin to appreciate the full power of Haley's achievement. His vast research into the experiences of the slave makes the story truly heartbreaking, with the horrific conditions of the slave ship described in great detail. We also learn of the lives of quiet desperation led by Kunta's descendants both on the plantation and on through post-slavery discrimination. Despite the severe hardships of living under a system designed to crush them, African-Americans held out with a strong hope that things would eventually get better, and a strong modern culture developed under amazing circumstances. Alex Haley's insights into the crushing despair, strong moral fortitude, and hopeful faith behind the development of African-American culture are the ultimate achievement of this book, and this should be appreciated by all Americans.e other flaw with Haley's coverage of this period concerns the African role in the slave trade. It is now common knowledge that the slave trade got off the ground because a small number of white traders recruited vast numbers of Africans to round up their countrymen and bring them to the slave ships. This was the tragic outcome of inter-tribal rivalries, with the recruited slave raiders unaware of the horrific implications of their actions. This phenomenon is mentioned in passing, though Haley suspiciously fails to dwell on its significance, as if it were too embarrassing.<br />Those minor flaws aside, the book becomes impossible to put down when Kunta's life takes a tragic turn as he is kidnapped into slavery. Here is where we begin to appreciate the full power of Haley's achievement. His vast research into the experiences of the slave makes the story truly heartbreaking, with the horrific conditions of the slave ship described in great detail. We also learn of the lives of quiet desperation led by Kunta's descendants both on the plantation and on through post-slavery discrimination. Despite the severe hardships of living under a system designed to crush them, African-Americans held out with a strong hope that things would eventually get better, and a strong modern culture developed under amazing circumstances. Alex Haley's insights into the crushing despair, strong moral fortitude, and hopeful faith behind the development of African-American culture are the ultimate achievement of this book, and this should be appreciated by all Americans.	2002-08-02
1456540:US	52697458	R1GA9JKKOQ8QHX	0553293354	834333861	Foundation	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Still A Masterpiece After All These Years	I am making my way through the original Foundation trilogy for the third time now, and I'm still gaining new appreciation for it. Fifty years after it first appeared, Asimov's Foundation series can still justifiably be called a classic. A clear influence on the Star Wars saga, and probably Star Trek as well, along with a large chunk of all science fiction that has come since. Sure there are a few things to quibble about with this series, and with this first book in particular. Asimov's vision of the distant future, with its nuclear reactors, microfilm communications, and picture phones, all seems ridiculously quaint today. As the story blasts through several decades, interchangeable characters come and go without making much of an impression, and this first book is so obviously part of a trilogy that it doesn't have a chance of standing on its own. But that's not the point, and by focusing on these quibbles you're missing the forest for the trees. Here Asimov has created a tremendous masterpiece of the imagination that is larger in scope than just about any other literary creation. The saga is built around the intriguing concept of psychohistory, in which the movements of huge masses of people can be accurately predicted over thousands of years (while it is still impossible to predict the actions of any one person). An ossifying empire, obviously based on the Roman Empire in its death throes, is on the verge of horrific collapse when the Foundation is created to subtly change the course of history behind the scenes, and gradually rises to prominence and tries to usher in a new golden age. The entire saga (not just this first book) takes place over a thousand years across a whole galaxy, while Asimov believably incorporates a full palate of psychology, politics, and sociology to lend the story credence. Still a masterpiece after all these years.	2002-07-31
1458598:US	52697458	ROMN4ZGK5Q8S1	006095373X	207910478	In Siberia	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Where No Westerner Has Gone Before	Here we find the intrepid traveler Colin Thubron trekking through vast and remote Siberia, apparently because he was just curious about the empty spaces on his map. Thubron is quite an interesting character himself, as this curiosity compels him to all sorts of hardship and travail as he chooses to travel through areas that are hostile and extremely difficult on a shoestring budget. He has little trouble braving temperatures that are way below zero or climbing up cliffs and mountains. He arrives in nondescript small towns at dusk, not knowing where he will stay or how he will find transportation to the next remote locale. Thubron relies on his charm and wit (such as it is) to find food, lodging and transport at the last minute. This is usually done by befriending local residents, and in one case a group of mafia goons, who are desperate for the company or fascinated by his outsider status.<br />Thubron's descriptions of these people and their lives reveal his tendency toward the depressing, which is the main feature of his writing style. His morose ways are also evident in his descriptions of Siberia's vast natural beauty. Thubron describes this bounty not as a visually impressed lover of nature, but with a strange anti-claustrophobia. He contemplates the thousands of miles of taiga and hundreds of miles of tundra with a vague sense of creeping dread, as if he were an insignificant speck being crushed from all directions by a fathomless void. But don't assume that's so strange, because that feeling is apparently how the Siberians themselves see things. Another curse on the minds of Siberians is the vast network of death camps operated there during the Stalin years, where many millions of innocent people were worked to death simply because they got on the regime's bad side. Thubron also proves that Siberia is afflicted with the sense of aimlessness that is also a problem almost everywhere else in the former USSR. The people are now adrift with \\"independence\\" but they have nothing to fall back on in the post-Soviet political void, as the Communists erased their ancient cultures and traditions. Thubron's journey ends abruptly at the toxic site of a former death camp/uranium mine. In fact, he writes the book without describing how he got to Siberia or how he got back, as if the journey had no real beginning or end - kind of like Siberia itself.y have nothing to fall back on in the post-Soviet political void, as the Communists erased their ancient cultures and traditions. Thubron's journey ends abruptly at the toxic site of a former death camp/uranium mine. In fact, he writes the book without describing how he got to Siberia or how he got back, as if the journey had no real beginning or end - kind of like Siberia itself.	2002-07-30
1461610:US	52697458	RLBJ87ZYAV0FT	0553582747	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Dean Heads for the Oprah Book Club	Buried somewhere within this 729-page (in paperback) tome, there is a classic Dean Koontz horror novel that is about 300 pages long. It's got all the hallmarks of a Koontz classic of unbridled suspense and dread, with some of the highly unique characters that Koontz always has a knack for creating. This includes a truly creepy bad guy, revealed to be nothing but a ... loser in the depths of his sheer evil. Plus we have a relentlessly grizzled old detective, a pair of bizarre and eccentric twin brothers, and two supernaturally gifted and otherworldly little kids. Add to this some good build-up in the chase after the bad guy, and a manageable (for the time being) touch of the supernatural, and this book has the earmarks of a Koontz classic.<br />But like I said above, that's only an estimated 300 pages. Instead of wrapping up this potentially lean-and-mean story, Koontz instead piles on another 429 pages of heartwarming sentimentality that is downright imposing in its scope. Characters often spend pages and pages soul searching and moralizing on the mysteries of life and love and friendship, in voluminous speeches and sermonizing that would give even the most syrup-resistant members of the Horse Whisperer's fan club a stomachache. As this book moves past page 600, the reader is more worried about wading through the syrup than rushing toward the climax. You barely notice as the bad guy is dispatched in one anti-climactic sentence, then you are faced with a further 30 or 40 pages of sermonizing. This is the worst in excessive melodrama, as you fight your way through the forced sadness and heartache while knowing that everything will turn out fine in the end, with an avalanche of happy family values as your reward. At least this book's super-loveable and personality-rich golden retriever doesn't appear until four pages before the end.<br />This development in Koontz's strategy has been slowly developing over the years, and as a long-time fan it's been inescapable for me. He is no longer a writer of enthrallingly creepy suspense and horror novels that keep you on the edge of your seat and continue to haunt you after you're done reading them. Koontz has now developed into a writer of self-help novels with melodramatic moralizing and desperately loving characters that teach the reader to have faith in the world. Tailor-made for the Oprah book club as it were.He is no longer a writer of enthrallingly creepy suspense and horror novels that keep you on the edge of your seat and continue to haunt you after you're done reading them. Koontz has now developed into a writer of self-help novels with melodramatic moralizing and desperately loving characters that teach the reader to have faith in the world. Tailor-made for the Oprah book club as it were.	2002-07-26
1467329:US	52697458	RNMFV4BVJMH2L	0140169539	62717498	Stalin: Breaker of Nations	Books	4	47	51	N	N	Breaker of Stalin	The master of Soviet scholarship and research, Robert Conquest, lightens up on his usual dense methodology for a slightly more easygoing character sketch on Stalin here. Conquest mentions in his prologue that the point of this biography is not to delve into extreme detail about the history of the USSR during Stalin's lifetime or all the political maneuvers and intrigue that took place. Therefore many historical details are intentionally left out, and more of a high-level view is given. That makes this book a much easier read than Conquest's other works, and it's significantly shorter too. On the other hand, you may be perplexed by the missing historical background if you have not already read Conquest's definitive works on the USSR, especially \\"The Great Terror\\" and possibly \\"Harvest of Sorrow.\\" One criticism is that with Conquest's lighter intellectual mood, he sometimes loses the distinction between biography and political history, neglecting Stalin the man as a focus for the book at some points. Conquest also occasionally lapses into personal opinions, which is not a problem in his other works. This includes his criticisms of Franklin Roosevelt and British diplomat Anthony Eden, and the use of words like \\"useless,\\" \\"crackpot,\\" or \\"charlatan\\" for many Soviet theorists and scientists, such as the biologist Lysenko. Here all Conquest has to do is let the facts speak for themselves.<br />With that aside, here Conquest dives as deeply into Stalin's life and personality as possible, though some readers who are trying to understand the extreme depths of his evil may be disappointed. Of course, such deeply psychological info is impossible to obtain, and only the man himself could know what he was thinking, even though Stalin was probably quite unhinged mentally. What we see is a man possessed by such extreme paranoia, not to mention a severe persecution complex, that he became one of history's worst monsters, mostly because he deeply needed to validate himself. Not much different from a typical schoolyard bully by the way, except this bully was at least indirectly responsible for the deaths of tens of millions of people. Stalin also wrecked the idea of socialism once and for all, which may have once been genuinely concerned about \\"the people\\" and equality, although it was always doomed to failure as an economic impossibility. Instead the world was inflicted with Stalinism, the doctrine in which tyrants consolidate personal power by eliminating opponents, suppressing any vestige of independent thought, crushing the population, and ruining one's country for decades (if not centuries) to come. Robert Conquest sums up Stalin succinctly at the end of the book - \\"...hope that no one like him will ever appear again.\\"different from a typical schoolyard bully by the way, except this bully was at least indirectly responsible for the deaths of tens of millions of people. Stalin also wrecked the idea of socialism once and for all, which may have once been genuinely concerned about \\"the people\\" and equality, although it was always doomed to failure as an economic impossibility. Instead the world was inflicted with Stalinism, the doctrine in which tyrants consolidate personal power by eliminating opponents, suppressing any vestige of independent thought, crushing the population, and ruining one's country for decades (if not centuries) to come. Robert Conquest sums up Stalin succinctly at the end of the book - \\"...hope that no one like him will ever appear again.\\"	2002-07-22
1484570:US	52697458	RI38JMGP749XF	0316353299	53525621	Blue Highways: A Journey into America	Books	5	99	100	N	N	*THE* Ultimate American Roadtrip	This past spring I took a circular, nationwide roadtrip of my own very similar to the one William Least Heat-Moon takes in this great book. Though my trip was a little shorter in length and a lot shorter in duration, I can definitely identify with Heat-Moon's efforts at self-discovery on the back roads of America. The most interesting aspect of this book is Heat-Moon's use of his Indian heritage and frame of mind while interpreting the various persons and regional cultures he comes across. Christians may object to his criticisms of certain religious tenets, especially when he freeloads off some devout Christians for food and lodging a few times during the trip. Also beware of Heat-Moon's habit of quoting Walt Whitman practically every five pages, while he spends far too much space on certain people and places. But otherwise we have a highly compelling travelogue of the backwaters and isolated small town denizens of unknown America, as well as many insights into the soul of the writer, and possibly the reader if he/she is so inclined. Also, the journey described took place back in 1978, and while certain descriptions and narratives are outdated, Heat-Moon was already lamenting the disintegration of America's small town charm by the fast-food/convenience subculture, which was just getting started at that time. Little did he know how much worse it would get! This book, along with the works of Kerouac and Steinbeck, belongs with the great American roadtrip classics.	2002-07-07
1488118:US	52697458	R3LC8EGD9HDIPJ	158542059X	947173920	Trust Us, We're Experts: How Industry Manipulates Science and gambles with Your Future	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Okay, So Now What Do We Do?	The most revealing aspect of this book is the fact that many scientists are being paid to give \\"evidence\\" that conforms to the wishes of corporations, as part of the vast PR industry and its efforts at saving corporate profits. This is sad because these scientists, simply for the money, violate the scientific method by reaching a conclusion first (whatever is best for the corporation) then structuring their so-called research to match that conclusion. Therefore we have \\"scientists\\" proclaiming that global warming doesn't exist and that tobacco isn't addictive and doesn't cause cancer - theories that clearly fail under the evidence and even under common sense. We also learn in this book that one of PR's biggest strategies is to condemn scientific evidence that may harm profiteering as \\"junk science,\\" while stating arrogantly that the reactionary pro-corporate theories are \\"sound science.\\" Of course this is the exact opposite of reality. Through a veneer of \\"impartial\\" scientific testimony that is really funded by the corporation, the public is barraged by false evidence. And the fact that corporations have thousands of times more money than concerned scientists and citizens sure doesn't help the situation.<br />This book gives endless examples of these shenanigans, but essentially becomes a repetitive list of evil acts by the PR industry. Meanwhile the book is completely anti-corporate and mostly left-wing, and while I'm on that side of the fence myself, there is merit to arguments that the book could be more impartial and objective to both sides. You can see some of the other reviews here for good examples. I'd like to add a more subtle example. Whenever the authors include a quote by the bad guys, it's often followed by negative connotations like \\"...Jones complained\\" or \\"...Smith ranted.\\" Meanwhile the good guys never complain or rant, but instead \\"proclaim\\" or \\"announce.\\" As investigative journalists, Rampton and Stauber can't avoid criticizing their fellow reporters for simply rehashing corporate propaganda (this is actually a serious problem), but they fail to see the irony in condemning their fellows. Also, they often imply that certain publications are biased because they publish propaganda by pro-corporate apologists, but then use other more favorable articles in the same publications to support their position. This is especially true of the Los Angeles Times and Wall Street Journal.<br />In the end though, here's the problem. The extreme repetition through the book is alleviated by a rather useful closing chapter called \\"Questioning Authority,\\" which describes how you can decode all the propaganda that we are assaulted with every day. Unfortunately, all you can do with this information is get more depressed as you discover more and more disinformation in the media and the corporate world. Stauber and Rampton prove early in the book that the PR industry sees the public as brainless sheep that can be easily led into believing everything you throw at them. Unfortunately, that's not too far from reality. This book can make the people who read it more vigilant, but the authors have no answers for this problem's systemic causes. This book lists all the symptoms but has no cure for the disease.ters for simply rehashing corporate propaganda (this is actually a serious problem), but they fail to see the irony in condemning their fellows. Also, they often imply that certain publications are biased because they publish propaganda by pro-corporate apologists, but then use other more favorable articles in the same publications to support their position. This is especially true of the Los Angeles Times and Wall Street Journal. <br />In the end though, here's the problem. The extreme repetition through the book is alleviated by a rather useful closing chapter called \\"Questioning Authority,\\" which describes how you can decode all the propaganda that we are assaulted with every day. Unfortunately, all you can do with this information is get more depressed as you discover more and more disinformation in the media and the corporate world. Stauber and Rampton prove early in the book that the PR industry sees the public as brainless sheep that can be easily led into believing everything you throw at them. Unfortunately, that's not too far from reality. This book can make the people who read it more vigilant, but the authors have no answers for this problem's systemic causes. This book lists all the symptoms but has no cure for the disease.	2002-07-04
1493404:US	52697458	R31TJCH4HPNNKG	0716727250	177421894	The Quark and the Jaguar: Adventures in the Simple and the Complex	Books	3	12	20	N	N	Confused Attempt at a Theory of Everything	The title of this review, and my low rating, are not meant as a condemnation Murray Gell-Mann as a scientist or visionary thinker. The problem is that this book has little focus and apparently does not know what it wants to be. It's difficult to tell if Gell-Mann is writing a biography of his own personal research history, or if he's attempting to draw large conclusions from his highly varied works. Gell-Mann is truly a polymath and has drawn insights into all kinds of disparate fields such as physics, chemistry, biology, linguistics, and psychology. All of these areas and more receive coverage in this book, and Gell-Mann tries to draw them all together into a unified theory of everything, using his most recent research into complex adaptive systems as a framework. Hence the sub-title of this book, as an attempt is made to draw together the very simple (quark) and the very complex (jaguar). Unfortunately, this grand connection fails to materialize as the book drags on, and the proposition of complex adaptive systems as the missing link is ultimately unconvincing. I'm also suspicious of all of Gell-Mann's reminiscing about his colleagues and exploits at Cal-Tech and the Santa Fe Institute. These almost seem like part of a fund-raising drive for these institutions. Gell-Mann would have been better served just putting together a compendium of his scientific achievements, without the attempt to tie them all together, which he doesn't quite accomplish here.	2002-06-29
1494550:US	52697458	R2985GUDM1WMJD	0802137288	702226527	Time Among the Maya: Travels in Belize, Guatemala, and Mexico	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Much More than a Travelogue	At first this book appears to be merely a travelogue of Wright's journeys through the Maya areas of Mexico and Central America. Sure, he gives us the goods on the ancient Maya ruins and archeological treasures, plus a lot of great historical coverage, but these turn out to be the background of a much larger narrative. Instead, Wright spends the bulk of his time visiting with the local people, both modern Mayas and non-Mayas who inhabit these regions today. Therefore we get an excellent sociological study on these peoples. I was surprised to learn of the large numbers of Maya that still exist, not just as an ancient fringe religious group, but as a sizeable portion of the populations of Guatemala, Belize, and Southern Mexico. Unfortunately these people still deal with the fallout of nearly 500 years of oppression, and continuing discrimination today. Their resulting hardships are a major focus of the book. Wright also has a flair for picking out offbeat and enjoyable characters among the people he meets, like the nearly-Rasta mestizos of Belize and a variety of befuddled and nave traveling companions. Wright could stand to be a little less biased at times, especially in the portion of the book that deals with Guatemala. Wright gets really carried away in describing this dreary nation as a hopeless hellhole. This characterization is probably not too far from reality, but impartiality is missing at times in this book. (Note that this was written back in the mid-80's, though it's doubtful if much has changed since then). Also, pictures of the many fascinating areas Wright visited would be a nice addition to this book. You have to rely on Wright's descriptions instead, although he does a pretty good job. Ultimately, this book is less a standard travelogue than an entertaining and very enlightening sociological study on a people who are still going strong even though their culture \\"collapsed\\" (in Western eyes) centuries and centuries ago.	2002-06-28
1495476:US	52697458	R3H6TTRL9VT9N0	0061057797	230736859	The Dragon and the Unicorn	Books	2	4	12	N	N	Just Clich&eacute;s and a Few Gimmicks	This is a completely average fantasy novel that gets docked one more star for misrepresentation. The promotional blurbs for this book will have you believe that Attanasio is breaking new ground by blending various far-flung mythologies like Norse and Eastern mysticism into the fantasy genre, plus cosmology and deep thoughts about the origins and powers of the universe. This is false advertising at best. Here we have nothing but standard fantasy fare about princesses and merlins and fanciful creatures, while the cosmology and other esoteric concepts are merely window dressing, and possibly a cynical attempt to raise this book above the stereotypical. Like a fancy faade added to a bland building, the deep concepts added to this book fail to brighten up the story or make it more interesting, and come across merely as gimmickry. At the core, what we have here is just standard fantasy novel clich&eacute;s with a thin veneer of attempted depth. Another bone of contention is that Attanasio tells the story mostly in present tense, which is kind of cute at first but just gets on your nerves. If you're a fan of regular fantasy novels and you're looking for a relaxing read, then this book is certainly dependable. But if you were suckered into thinking that this book breaks new ground in the realm of storytelling, as I was, you won't be too impressed.	2002-06-27
1503472:US	52697458	R1FVDGOM91H42G	0060926562	362980509	The Lost Heart of Asia	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Reporting to You from the Edge of Nowhere	In this intriguing book Colin Thubron travels throughout the mysterious lands of Central Asia, the five &quot;Stans&quot; which had just emerged from the yoke of the Soviet Union. Thubron's travels took place in the early 90's just after these new nations were formed from the disintegrating USSR, and were emerging in a confused state toward the &quot;independence&quot; they couldn't manage, after the colonialism they didn't want. Central Asia has been shrouded in mystery since the dawn of time - surrounded either by impenetrable mountains or never-ending deserts, and spawning obscure peoples who periodically burst out in waves of conquest before settling back into obscurity again. These mostly Moslem peoples (with some imported Caucasians mixed in) obviously never meshed well with the rest of the Soviet empire, with their cultures, languages and histories being suppressed for the past 70 years; and Thubron now reveals their confused state. Here you will meet many sadly interesting people in dreary locations, who are ignorant of their own histories (after Soviet revisionism and flat out lies) and have no idea what the future holds. You will find that Thubron's basic writing style is rather depressing, as he tends to focus on the negative aspects of the locations he visits, usually describing them as dreary and soulless, and he concludes that most of the people he meets have hopeless futures in store. However, his attitudes are not that different from the interviewees themselves. In the end, Thubron proves that this region and its myriad peoples will continue to be shrouded in mystery and obscurity, but in the meantime he provides an enjoyable travelogue of an area and people that few outsiders have or ever will see.	2002-06-20
1505207:US	52697458	R37039VK1S0AQH	0762708921	96253999	Pennsylvania Curiosities: Quirky Characters, Roadside Oddities & Other Offbeat Stuff (Curiosities Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Some Quirky Diversions	This is a fun book for Pennsylvania natives who like to stray from the beaten path and learn more about some of the weirder landmarks and tourist attractions across the state. The coverage here is similar in scope and humor to the excellent &quot;Roadside America&quot; book series and website. Non-natives might not be too enthralled by this book, but natives will be surprised by the diversity of people, customs, landscapes, and bizarre attractions that are found across Pennsylvania, even if you travel the state extensively. Some of those small towns can have some real weird things in those nooks and crannies. Just watch out for the many typos in this book, which is interesting because Deleon points out several typos on historical markers and artifacts around the state, especially the misspelling of Pennsylvania on the Liberty Bell.	2002-06-18
1510444:US	52697458	RRBF3ZDJUUKYD	0446671002	58848637	The Celestine Prophecy: An Adventure	Books	1	42	68	N	N	Useless and Irrelevant	I had the misfortune of reading this giant steaming pile of drivel in a recent attempt to impress a member of the opposite sex (like that ever gets me anywhere). Fortunately I was able to borrow a copy. I was aware of the sensation this book caused back in the mid-90's, and the passage of time has given an interesting perspective. I'm not sure which is scarier - the fact that Redfield got a publishing contract for this inanity, or that for a few years millions of people were claiming that it changed their lives. That second scenario once again proves the appallingly low level of independent thought among the American public.<br />First of all, this treatise has no business being in book form. The nine so-called \\"insights\\" are nothing but standard psychobabble that are more worthy of being published as a one-page pamphlet with a list of nine trite fortune cookie mantras - and even then these \\"insights\\" wouldn't stand up to the scrutiny of a seven year-old. And don't bother with the author's attempts to expand these ideas into a novel, as he merely highlights his appalling skills as a writer. Your reaction to his weak plot elements concerning running from thugs in the mean streets of Lima and getting lost in Peruvian jungles will be \\"yeah whatever,\\" if they don't make you downright hostile toward the author for wasting your time.<br />This book is nothing but a thinly disguised self-help book filled with predictable feel-good platitudes, with a thin veneer of so-called \\"spirituality\\" that constitutes nothing but a cynical attempt to get this book moved from one category to another at the bookstore. A book of this caliber can be written with minimal effort and sold to the weak-minded who can't think for themselves. The fact that millions of people claim that this book transformed their entire beings scares me to death. These folks should experiment with independent thought instead. Meanwhile, I wonder if Redfield believes this jibberish himself, or laughed all the way to the bank. Now that's the American way! Fortunately the passage of time has condemned this book to where it really belongs - the dustbin of history. The Celestine Prophecy, and all its cash-in sequels, became yesterday's news the minute something even cheesier came along.<br />Avoid at all costs.y to the bank. Now that's the American way! Fortunately the passage of time has condemned this book to where it really belongs - the dustbin of history. The Celestine Prophecy, and all its cash-in sequels, became yesterday's news the minute something even cheesier came along. <br />Avoid at all costs.	2002-06-13
1519862:US	52697458	R3SX0Y8XQYQ2U2	0805060405	279968187	Area 51: The Dreamland Chronicles	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Calling All Crackpots	As an open-minded skeptic I'm game to all kinds of weirdness, if the evidence presents itself. In turn I was somewhat familiar with the folklore surrounding Area 51 in Nevada. On a recent cross-country vacation I drove through some of the areas described in this book (though not nearly so extensively), traversing a portion of Nevada 375, and making a personal contribution to the unauthorized bumper sticker tradition. I got this here book later in the trip in Roswell, New Mexico, another center of weirdness that has a much better sense of humor. Here Darlington is not focused on the top-secret military operations at the base known popularly as Area 51 (which would be mostly impossible), but with the folklore practiced by conspiracy buffs and UFO enthusiasts who frequent the area. Centered in the nowheresville of Rachel, this book is populated with all kinds of colorful characters with bizarre theories and backgrounds, with names like Agent X and Ambassador Merlyn Merlin II of Alpha Draconis. Darlington keeps a detached stance, merely reporting each figure's theories and trying not to pass judgment. While most of these folks claim to be activists trying to unveil military and government secrecy, just about all of them come across, through their own words, as the highest class of crackpots, publicity seekers, and connect-the-dots conspiracy theorists that could be debunked by a pre-schooler. Unfortunately, Darlington's detached method leads to a book that can be quite dry and tedious at times, as he tends to use extremely long interviews and speeches verbatim, which sometimes last for several pages in a row. Darlington doesn't bother to propose any universal conclusion about this whole phenomenon, which would be interesting from a cultural standpoint at least. This book is outdated also, with several predictions from the interviewees of momentous events at the turn of the millennium. These sure didn't happen, and I bet it's because the year 2000 is a number based on a human calendar, so why would aliens care? Duh. In the end, this book accomplishes little more than rehashing the weirdness you can get for free from any number of internet news groups.human calendar, so why would aliens care? Duh. In the end, this book accomplishes little more than rehashing the weirdness you can get for free from any number of internet news groups.	2002-06-05
1521471:US	52697458	R4OEYI0FR2SCQ	0688080936	378368955	Ottoman Centuries	Books	5	34	38	N	N	A Sweeping and Expansive Achievement	Here Lord Kinross has created quite an achievement in historical writing, summing up the 600 years of the Ottoman empire in one concise, easy to read, yet expansive narrative. Kinross shows a clear understanding of large historical, cultural, and political trends that results in a narrative that is sweeping in its scope. Kinross is clearly influenced by Gibbon's \\"Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\\" and even uses that phrase a few times in this book, merely replacing the word \\"Roman\\" with \\"Ottoman.\\" Hence while Kinross is commenting on the minute details of various time periods throughout Ottoman history, he also keeps you appraised of the long-term trends that would result first in the empire's rise to greatness and then its slow downfall. One weakness of this method though, is the frequent use of the \\"beginning of the end\\" or \\"it was all downhill from here\\" refrains, which was also noticed by another reviewer here on Amazon. In fact, Kinross first brings this up way back at the death of Suleiman the Magnificent, nearly four centuries before the empire finally dissolved, although it's true that the empire had reached its peak at that point. Another possible point of contention with this book is Kinross' coverage of the empire's foreign relations, with most space going to the Europeans to the west and later the Russians to the north. There is very little about the empire's relations with the Persians to the east, and almost nothing about the Arabs and Africans to the south. However this is probably more the result of the differing amounts of documentation and evidence available in each area, rather than any bias on the author's part. Meanwhile Parts VI and VII really drag with minute details on the political wranglings of the European powers in relation to the empire. But those are just some minor weaknesses, which are more than made up for by the strengths described above, as well as Kinross' occasional forays into colorful descriptions of the lifestyles of the royals and their subjects, and coverage of the empire's culture and architecture.<br />Finally, one reviewer here for some self-serving reason slammed this book for failing to cover the massacres of the Armenians. This is 100% false, as Kinross not only covers three different periods in which the Turks tried to smash the Armenians, but effectively places the blame where it's due. That reactionary critic both failed to read the book and failed to realize that it supports his position. He/she also claims that the fall of the empire is left out, supposedly missing an entire half of the book. Figure that one out.yals and their subjects, and coverage of the empire's culture and architecture. <br />Finally, one reviewer here for some self-serving reason slammed this book for failing to cover the massacres of the Armenians. This is 100% false, as Kinross not only covers three different periods in which the Turks tried to smash the Armenians, but effectively places the blame where it's due. That reactionary critic both failed to read the book and failed to realize that it supports his position. He/she also claims that the fall of the empire is left out, supposedly missing an entire half of the book. Figure that one out.	2002-06-04
1527707:US	52697458	RETU95LJ1AOH8	1565847032	659479046	Understanding Power: The Indispensible Chomsky	Books	4	11	30	N	N	Can't Play Well With Others	This is a rather unconventional book that compiles Noam Chomsky's opinions on just about everything, using transcripts from public discussions he gave over many years in many different places. Thus the book is kind of a hodgepodge that jumps around from topic to topic in a stream-of-consciousness kind of way, despite the editors' attempts to group the topics into chapters. All of Chomsky's opinions on the structure of power in the worlds of economics and politics are in fact responses to questions from anonymous seminar participants, identified here as \\"Man\\" or \\"Woman.\\" Unfortunately I suspect that many of these questions were planted to facilitate speechifying from Chomsky on selected topics. Meanwhile, it is hard to believe that all of Chomsky's comments in this book are merely recorded from live discussions that he gave - the sheer density and complexity of what he's saying suggest a lot of fleshing out by the editors. So approach this book's structure with skepticism.<br />As for Chomsky's opinions themselves, his knowledge of the working of corporate capitalism and economic forces, as related to a huge variety of specific topics, is simply mind-boggling. This is truly a learned man. His insights into the true workings of the capitalist economy for regular people (that is, 99.9% of the population) are extremely enlightening. However, on the political side, Chomsky is dangerously close to paranoid conspiracy theorist territory. He describes himself as either a democratic socialist, or more frequently as an anarchist. His anarchic vision is not of free-for-all chaos however, but a form of government in which there are no politicians and power is really shared by all people equally. He can admit the logistical difficulties of such a utopia, but this anarchist vision results in Chomsky disagreeing with ALL political philosophies. At various points in this book he says that the New Deal was a fascist endeavor, communists and fascists are exactly the same, and that big business is fascist in economics and communist in politics. Basically, both of those extremes are equally far away from Chomsky's desired anarchy. Unfortunately, Chomsky's political diatribes, while certainly compelling and revealing, make him come across as an anti-everything know-it-all. That makes parts of this book extremely tiresome and repetitive.g business is fascist in economics and communist in politics. Basically, both of those extremes are equally far away from Chomsky's desired anarchy. Unfortunately, Chomsky's political diatribes, while certainly compelling and revealing, make him come across as an anti-everything know-it-all. That makes parts of this book extremely tiresome and repetitive.	2002-05-29
1574080:US	52697458	R1ZG4IVZ4UKM5T	0415922801	66375	Lies We Live By: Defeating Doubletalk and Deception in Advertising, Politics, and the Media	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Shockingly Obvious	This is a pretty useful book that gives you pointers on decoding the lies, mindgames, and doublespeak from all kinds of areas. This includes advertising, politics, media, and even car sales. That is, areas known to be populated by charlatans, influence peddlers, and con artists. Hausman's observations on these trends and especially his specific examples of chicanery in each of those areas are quite eye-opening and entertaining. But it's not exactly shocking that car salesmen and advertisers are trying to rip you off, or that politicians bend the truth in their campaign advertising. Most of us already have that figured out, and there's not much need for Hausman to introduce these problems as if we just crawled out from under a rock and should be totally shocked. Also, his occasional lapses into brutal sarcasm can be funny but tend to make him guilty of some of the behavior he's criticizing. Alas, it's hard to write a book like this, which is a media-driven exercise, and keep yourself totally detached from the bad side of media behavior that you're describing. Hausman does know this however, and instead of simply complaining then leaving you up in the air like other writers on this subject, he actually comes up with some useful solutions to the problem. The only true weakness of this book though, is that Hausman sees lies and doublespeak EVERYWHERE. If that's the case, then there's not really much reason for hope, is there? There's no need to be as pessimistic as him. Also beware of this book's low production values (at least in paperback), with illustrations that look like they came from fifth-generation copies off an extremely ancient copy machine.	2002-04-19
1587984:US	52697458	RUK6X1PHMDKR6	0425181642	894540459	E=mc2: A Biography of the World's Most Famous Equation	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Creative Treatment but Flimsy Results	Bodanis is an expert on intellectual history, not on any one type of science, and that explains the structure of this book. The theme of this book is one of the most creative ideas I've seen in a long time - writing the biography of an idea (Einstein's e=mc^2) as if it were a person cruising through history. Hence the story is not about Einstein's life, or even developments in particular areas of science, but how this equation has worked its way into the public consciousness. Bodanis' coverage of each part of the equation, E, the \\"equals\\" sign, M, C, and \\"squared\\" is also a very creative concept. Unfortunately, Bodanis can't quite pull off the story without a background in hard science, so the book merely points out the gaps in his non-scientific presentation style. Bodanis quickly rushes through many scientific disciplines, sometimes in just a few paragraphs, that would require many textbooks to adequately explain. And the accuracy of many of his scientific explanations is suspect. You can see several of the other reviews here at Amazon for examples of his faulty science. I would like to add that Bodanis' descriptions of sub-atomic processes (see especially chapter 8) are suspiciously evasive and lacking on details, and show a complete lack of acknowledgement for quantum mechanics. Also, his quick description of the end of the universe (sputtering out as all energy is all used up) is only one of many viable theories on cosmology, though Bodanis does not acknowledge this, except for an extremely brief mention in the footnotes. Most annoyingly, Bodanis does a lot of stretching in this book, trying to add suspense to the history of e=mc^2 in the development of the atomic bomb, and trying to connect the equation to every single branch of science, even plate tectonics in one example. These are indirect connections at best, but the author tries to give them full significance anyway.  In fact, Bodanis can hardly get through two paragraphs without mentioning the equation. So while the unusual \\"biography\\" idea behind this book is highly creative and original, the results just don't add up.So while the unusual \\"biography\\" idea behind this book is highly creative and original, the results just don't add up.	2002-04-08
1590585:US	52697458	R1WW2EQ79C3W25	0871401541	957381413	Selected Poems	Books	5	44	49	N	N	"life is more true than reason will deceive"	This review is from a strictly prose guy, as poetry usually goes right over my head. In my efforts to understand poetry, I have discovered that the work of e.e. cummings breaks through the stylistic barriers that make many people shy away from poetry altogether. cummings' use of bizarre spacing, punctuation, and phrasings keeps the reader away from the \\"sing-song\\" routine that tends to damage the credibility of many a poem, and cummings uses the art of style to say many things and make many points in just a few words. The most fascinating aspect of cummings' work is letting the small number of words in a poem really sink in until you gain many insights. This book usefully arranges cummings' most noteworthy poems into categories so you can more easily dwell on his major areas of subject matter. cummings did not live the hard life of many noteworthy poets, so a good number of his poems are musings on abstract concepts like life, love, mythology, and mortality. However, his much sharper observations on war, prostitution, politics, and the dark side of urban life can be truly shocking once you delve into their deeper meanings. Contemplating the title of this review, which is also the first line of the poem on page 181 of this book, will help any poetry-fearing reader to dive into cummings' world.	2002-04-06
1594265:US	52697458	R1BIH51AK7S7NA	0553351397	130320779	Peace Is Every Step: The Path of Mindfulness in Everyday Life	Books	4	85	91	N	N	Begin Your Journey of Awareness	This book seems very simplistic on the surface, with what appear to be standard Eastern metaphors encouraging inner peace and awareness. Some examples are stories about meditating on a falling leaf or retreating to a quite room in your house. But as you make your way through the book and think about what you're reading, you'll find that Nhat Hanh is actually using these simple stories to make very profound points about how you can embark on a journey of inner peace. And this is serious inner peace as the Buddhists continually strive for, not just the stereotypes that you hear from Western folks who only see this stuff as a fad. Nhat Hanh describes how you can find serenity in the most mundane of activities, such as washing dishes, walking, eating, and even breathing (the breathing techniques he describes are also a key component of Yoga). His techniques for managing anger, depression, and frustration are incredibly useful and should be practiced by far more Westerners. The only flaw in this book is in some sections of Part 3, in which Nhat Hanh attempts to move these techniques from your inner world to the outer world, and contends that these methods of inner awareness can help solve the world's problems or war, hunger, crime, etc. if everyone just practiced them devoutly. He may be right about that, but this is far too idealistic for the real world, even if his Eastern interpretation is far more humane and open-minded than the Western view. Other than that minor flaw, I highly recommend this book if you are looking for a way to cut down on stress or anger, and would like to improve your mental and emotional health.	2002-04-03
1606163:US	52697458	R3L30H0H8O9ZJ3	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	3	41	52	N	N	There's Reason for Concern, but Drop the Scapegoating	This is a mostly compelling but ultimately unconvincing diatribe on the fast food industry. The problem may be the title of the book, because Schlosser has essentially used the term \\"fast food nation\\" on a conceptual level to describe large social processes and phenomena that are tangentially related to the fast food business. Therefore this is about much more than the history of McDonald's or KFC, but as sociology the book does not succeed.<br />The societal ills that Schlosser describes throughout the book are definitely worth worrying about - the horrific conditions of the meatpacking industry, the elimination of small farmers by agribusinesses, the replacement of so-called \\"real\\" jobs with those performed by the growing underpaid and illiterate workforce, and the increasing obesity of Americans. These trends are all quite alarming, but the causes and effects are infinitely more complicated than Schlosser will have you believe in this book. He'll try to convince you that the meatpacking business is corrupt ONLY because Republicans refuse to allow regulations after getting donations from the big fast food companies. Sure fast food employs an exploding number of illiterate and poorly paid employees, but it's not like these people wouldn't even exist if it weren't for the industry, as Schlosser implies. And of course Americans are getting fatter and less healthy, but this is the result of many different factors, only one of which is the convenience of fast food. Other factors would include lack of access to exercise equipment, a car-obsessed infrastructure, and the general couch potato culture caused by too much television.<br />Throughout most of this book Schlosser behaves more like a very paranoid conspiracy theorist who thinks that the government spies on the people with brain wave detectors. But in his case, the villain is the fast food business. Sure there are many problematic trends in American society, described above, which we should all absolutely worry about. But at most, the fast food business is INDIRECTLY involved in these problems. Schlosser however uses the industry as a scapegoat that is the direct cause of all these dire trends. At one point he even complains that high school kids in Colorado no longer wear cowboy hats to school. Most of us would just assume that these kids have a fashion sense that is in the current century! But Schlosser implicates fast food in this \\"problem\\" as well.<br />The underlying flaw throughout this book is Schlosser's implication that the industry is maliciously forcing fast food, and all of its related social ills, on an innocent public in a greedy rush for profits. This is a simplistic and one-sided theory. Real life is far more complicated. The industry has grown to such gigantic levels because people WANT fast food, while the industry encourages them to buy more, which is all completely capitalistic behavior. In the end, you will find that there are indeed reasons to worry about the social problems described in this book, but you will have to disregard Schlosser's simplistic scapegoating of the fast food business. True solutions (if any) will have to be found outside of this book.out. But at most, the fast food business is INDIRECTLY involved in these problems. Schlosser however uses the industry as a scapegoat that is the direct cause of all these dire trends. At one point he even complains that high school kids in Colorado no longer wear cowboy hats to school. Most of us would just assume that these kids have a fashion sense that is in the current century! But Schlosser implicates fast food in this \\"problem\\" as well. <br />The underlying flaw throughout this book is Schlosser's implication that the industry is maliciously forcing fast food, and all of its related social ills, on an innocent public in a greedy rush for profits. This is a simplistic and one-sided theory. Real life is far more complicated. The industry has grown to such gigantic levels because people WANT fast food, while the industry encourages them to buy more, which is all completely capitalistic behavior. In the end, you will find that there are indeed reasons to worry about the social problems described in this book, but you will have to disregard Schlosser's simplistic scapegoating of the fast food business. True solutions (if any) will have to be found outside of this book.	2002-03-25
1616122:US	52697458	R3R41XPIMQMSZ6	1561840025	804369463	The New Inquisition	Books	3	22	30	N	N	Don't Believe Everything You Read	In this book Robert A. Wilson drives home the point that the scientific \\"establishment\\" is prone to acting like religious fundamentalists when it comes to offbeat new ideas that don't conform to accepted \\"laws\\" of science. Just like the old inquisition attempted to destroy all examples of thought or action that did not comply with their religious dogma to the letter, mainstream scientists of today have become a new inquisition and have suppressed and often incarcerated eccentric thinkers like Reich or Velikovsky. So the point is, you can't believe everything that you hear from the scientific establishment, as \\"evidence\\" that is compiled to dispute offbeat theories often shows traces of simply conforming to preconceived notions. A common example is the \\"mass hallucination\\" excuse that is often trotted out to explain UFO sightings or religious visions that are witnessed by many people. Mainstream scientists may even compile \\"evidence\\" to justify the mass hallucination theory, which is not a theory at all but a reaction to an uncomfortable or unacceptable idea. Wilson asks us, which is harder to believe - UFO's or mass hallucinations? If you're open minded, you can see the gaps in the establishment's reactions, without resorting to outlandish theories yourself.<br />Wilson manages to stay objective and open-minded through most of the book, though he shows tendencies of the worst conspiracy theorists by assuming that simply piling on examples of suppressed ideas actually proves the existence of an organized conspiracy against them. This fails, as does Wilson's use of the vague term \\"Citadel\\" as the supposed cabal of mainstream scientists who have devoted their lives to stifle creative thinking. Of course there are specific examples of this, as Wilson convincingly demonstrates, but he fails to reveal an organized effort by \\"the enemy.\\" And as always, Wilson's sarcastic, stream-of-consciousness writing style has a negative impact on his credibility, as does the very awkward final chapter of this book in which he attempts to wrap up many disconnected ideas into an overall philosophical theory.<br />If you approach this book with an open mind, you will definitely learn how to read what you get from the scientific community with a healthy skepticism, and will want to see more evidence before you believe everything you read. This can definitely help you become a freer thinker. But if you're one of those folks who claim that Wilson's books have changed your whole way of thinking, you've pretty much missed his point entirely.ard final chapter of this book in which he attempts to wrap up many disconnected ideas into an overall philosophical theory.<br />If you approach this book with an open mind, you will definitely learn how to read what you get from the scientific community with a healthy skepticism, and will want to see more evidence before you believe everything you read. This can definitely help you become a freer thinker. But if you're one of those folks who claim that Wilson's books have changed your whole way of thinking, you've pretty much missed his point entirely.	2002-03-17
1632778:US	52697458	R17AOWHN45JSTQ	0804713693	839855126	Born Red: A Chronicle of the Cultural Revolution	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Tales of the Easily Led	Here Gao Yuan provides a personal account of the political insanity of China's Cultural Revolution, which he was swept up into as a teenager. Chairman Mao's instructions to the youths of the countryside to ferret out those who weren't \\"revolutionary\\" or \\"pure\\" enough quickly lead to the real-life \\"Lord of the Flies\\" scenario that we can see in this book. Now I'm certainly no expert on Chinese history, but Mao's attempt to lead the people to a glorious revolution through the elimination of so-called enemies hardly made the population stronger and ready to move forward to his glorious communist future. This would require teamwork and cooperation among all people. Instead the Cultural Revolution made everyone suspicious of everyone else, as people were desperate to prove how righteous they were by ferreting out class enemies. If you couldn't find any enemies, you just made them up. Whoever was the loudest and most violent won the battle, and proof went out the window.<br />Gao Yuan was swept up in this insanity, and in the beginning of his narrative he enjoyed proving his revolutionary zeal by \\"outing\\" the teachers at his school who supposedly were not righteous or revolutionary enough, and participated in destroying many of their careers. But Gao stopped having so much fun when the lives of his friends, his family, and finally himself were destroyed. Instead of the unified force of revolutionary youth that Mao envisioned, the logical outcome was the disintegration of the youth movement into smaller and smaller factions, who merely used Mao's instructions as an excuse to bully each other and consolidate power. Gao is not afraid to admit to his own evil acts, such as when he participated in the beating of a teenage girl, pulled a meat cleaver on his own father, or when he helped destroy a hospital, all because he was lead to believe that his politics were more righteous than everyone else's. He then watches helplessly as the countryside descends into factionalism and anarchy. Some parts of this book are quite alarming, as the youths digress into torture and warfare, and many of Gao's friends are severely injured or killed in the factional fighting.<br />One interesting side effect of this book is Gao's descriptions of the personality cult Chairman Mao built around himself, and how he bullied the people into worshipping him as a supreme deity. This man succeeded in making a billion people think he was a god. That's an interesting study in politics and sociology.archy. Some parts of this book are quite alarming, as the youths digress into torture and warfare, and many of Gao's friends are severely injured or killed in the factional fighting.<br />One interesting side effect of this book is Gao's descriptions of the personality cult Chairman Mao built around himself, and how he bullied the people into worshipping him as a supreme deity. This man succeeded in making a billion people think he was a god. That's an interesting study in politics and sociology.	2002-03-04
1642466:US	52697458	RR8EOJ9IOHT13	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	2	454	529	N	N	Not Even Close to the Whole Story	The writer of this book, Thomas Friedman, has impressive credentials as a globetrotting journalist and expert on international economics. I'm sure that on the job he is required to be objective and impartial. But that's not the case in this heavy-handed and very arrogant book on globalization. You may find this book informative and fun to read, but beware that you're not getting anything close to the full story on this phenomenon.<br />Friedman's writing style is mostly conversational and easy to read, though he tends to talk about his own friends and adventures way too much. Also, Friedman can't stop making up his own terminology, like Golden Straitjacket, Electronic Herd, Globalution, Glocalism, and the especially irritating DOScapital. The problem is, Friedman merely throws these terms at numerous and scattershot examples of phenomena that may possibly lend them meaning, but fails to adequately describe them himself.<br />Parts One and Two of this book are actually quite strong as Friedman remains mostly objective in describing the rise of globalization and where things stand today. He also includes a surprising amount of coverage on the negative effects on the environment and non-Western cultures (for the time being). Unfortunately, this book collapses into a firestorm of arrogance in Part 3, which is misleadingly titled &quot;The Backlash Against the System.&quot; Here Friedman actually spends more time criticizing those who can't or won't jump on the sacred globalization bandwagon. He uses the derogatory term &quot;turtles&quot; for people who are being left behind by the new economic realities around the world, and doesn't care if it's not their fault. He demeans concern for disadvantaged peoples and countries as &quot;politically correct nonsense&quot; (pg. 355).<br />Some portions of this book are getting outdated, which is not Friedman's fault, but the gaps are very revealing. Several times he cites Enron as a strong global company with the world's best interests at heart, and failed to predict the tech stock crash of 2000 and how it would drastically slow down the US-led growth of the world economy (see chapter 17). This shows that Friedman's predictions in this book are already starting to fall apart. Friedman also completely avoids the issue of corporate domination, as rulings by the pro-corporate WTO have allowed multinational companies to supersede the laws of sovereign nations (such as the blatant disregard for Nigeria's environmental laws by Western oil companies). Finally, Part Four of this book descends into anemic boosterism as Friedman tries to convince us that American culture and corporations will solve all the world's ills as peoples around the world happily embrace globalization. By this point, Friedman has left objectivity far behind. His clear contempt for those who are concerned about globalization's destructive effects, and his apparent belief that American corporations only wish to solve the world's ills, prove that he has not succeeded in telling the full story. Not even close.interests at heart, and failed to predict the tech stock crash of 2000 and how it would drastically slow down the US-led growth of the world economy (see chapter 17). This shows that Friedman's predictions in this book are already starting to fall apart. Friedman also completely avoids the issue of corporate domination, as rulings by the pro-corporate WTO have allowed multinational companies to supersede the laws of sovereign nations (such as the blatant disregard for Nigeria's environmental laws by Western oil companies). Finally, Part Four of this book descends into anemic boosterism as Friedman tries to convince us that American culture and corporations will solve all the world's ills as peoples around the world happily embrace globalization. By this point, Friedman has left objectivity far behind. His clear contempt for those who are concerned about globalization's destructive effects, and his apparent belief that American corporations only wish to solve the world's ills, prove that he has not succeeded in telling the full story. Not even close.	2002-02-24
1643002:US	52697458	RMQK9X1WT25IF	0440214424	689073601	Out of Sight	Books	3	4	11	N	N	I Suppose He's Done Better	I'm new to Elmore Leonard and finally decided to check out his work. I also haven't seen the movie for this book. Since the guy gets so many rave reviews, and his books have been made into movies, and since he's written around thirty books, he must be doing something right. Some of his other books are probably awesome, but I wasn't too impressed by this one. The plot is rather creative, but the twists and turns seem forced as if Leonard was trying desperately to make the action look less predictable. The dialogue is stunted and poorly constructed, with conversations between characters taking abrupt and nonsensical turns, once again in a forced attempt to avoid predictability. The female and non-white characters here are hardly plausible in their actions or speech. The supposed centerpiece of the story, the relationship between Karen the US Marshall and Foley the bad guy, is poorly developed. Their relationship moves along illogically in fits and starts, and their interactions are far from believable. I guess I'll try a different Leonard book and then I'll see what the fuss is about.	2002-02-24
1648992:US	52697458	R2HLL7EA2NRCHL	037570759X	702212284	The Coming Anarchy: Shattering the Dreams of the Post Cold War	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Kaplan Declares That Government is Out of Style	This book is essentially a collection of Robert Kaplan's &quot;greatest hits,&quot; made up of his most noteworthy articles on world politics and observations from Atlantic Monthly. The recurring theme of the selected articles here is Kaplan's strategy of using unwavering realism to interpret political trends in the world's most crisis-prone areas. This especially applies to sub-Saharan Africa, which few American policy makers understand or care about, but for which Kaplan's expertise and insights are impressive. Kaplan's &quot;realism&quot; is based on straight common sense and his own extensive travels through these areas of the world. And while you may not agree with everything (or anything) Kaplan says, you must admit that his common sense approach to solving political problems in the third world is far above and beyond that of armchair politicians who have never visited the places whose futures they are deciding. Kaplan's realism is also above (and disconnected from) left- and right-wing politics, as he has plenty of criticism of both liberal and conservative viewpoints on world affairs.<br />The weaknesses of this book include Kaplan's frequent tendency to get big-headed about how his predictions of world events come true. Granted, he accurately predicted the ethnic catastrophes in Yugoslavia and the Caucasus region long before most policy makers cared about those places, and Kaplan certainly deserves credit for this. But he should drop some of his self-aggrandizement and let the facts speak for themselves. Also, throughout the articles in this book, Kaplan is usually on his soapbox, making recommendations and grand observations in a way that indicate he has all the answers to the world's political problems, and all the world's leaders and policy makers have got it all wrong. This tendency is the main flaw in Kaplan's writing style, although he definitely knows what he's talking about. Once again he just needs to let the facts speak for themselves.<br />The conclusion reached by this collection of articles is that the nation state concept, along with the governments that manage nation states, will soon be obsolete. This is because of the emergence of corporate power and globalization, and the growing number of third world citizens who do not have the cultural or political experience to handle democracy (which is not the cure to all the world's problems, as Kaplan convincingly demonstrates). Kaplan concludes that the world will develop into regional city-states and chiefdoms, much like in the middle ages, after the nation state concept runs its course. You may not agree with some of Kaplan's far-fetched predictions, but you have to admit that he's been right about these things before.conclusion reached by this collection of articles is that the nation state concept, along with the governments that manage nation states, will soon be obsolete. This is because of the emergence of corporate power and globalization, and the growing number of third world citizens who do not have the cultural or political experience to handle democracy (which is not the cure to all the world's problems, as Kaplan convincingly demonstrates). Kaplan concludes that the world will develop into regional city-states and chiefdoms, much like in the middle ages, after the nation state concept runs its course. You may not agree with some of Kaplan's far-fetched predictions, but you have to admit that he's been right about these things before.	2002-02-19
1659510:US	52697458	R158G8MMGX2VJM	0393312763	682012032	Black Holes and Time Warps: Einstein's Outrageous Legacy (Commonwealth Fund Book Program)	Books	4	71	82	N	N	Astrophysics Gets Down to Earth (A Little)	Don't be too swayed by the word &quot;outrageous&quot; in the title of this book. That may be there to attract attention, but needless to say, physicist Kip Thorne does a good job of explaining the more bizarre aspects of the universe in this book. Thorne's writing style is very accessible and down to earth, as he explains relativity, black holes, quantum mechanics, and even time warps. However, you'll still need to be really on the ball to understand many of these extremely complicated topics. I was impressed by Thorne's ability to explain bizarre concepts like gravitational time dilation and Einstein's theory of relativity to non-eggheads. But some of the more arcane aspects of quantum gravity or unified field theories will be beyond even the most well tuned laymen who read this book. Thorne also keeps the mood light by giving us the human side of advanced physics research, focusing on the friendships, rivalries, and personalities of the world's leading minds. This extends from Einstein in the beginning to Hawking in the present, and dozens of other less famous but almost as brilliant minds in between.<br />Watch out for some inconsistency in this book however, as Thorne sometimes gets into too much sentimental detail about the scientists' social lives (including his own), while the middle of the book sags as it digresses into the mechanical specs of radio telescopes and gravitational wave detectors. Also, beware of Thorne's suspiciously enthusiastic endorsements of gravitational wave research in chapter 10, as this is his own field of research, and I suspect he's trying to promote the need for funding. There's also a little intellectual arrogance here, as several times Thorne proclaims that the laws of quantum mechanics, as they are currently understood (which isn't much), are &quot;indisputable&quot; or &quot;incontrovertible.&quot; Scientists used to say the same thing about Newton's laws until they were weakened by Einstein. Then the theories of Einstein (worshipped by every physicist in this book) were weakened by quantum mechanics. You never know, the knowledge presented in this book may someday be overthrown as well. But in the meantime, Thorne does a great job of explaining it to those of us who are interested but don't have multiple PhD's.hipped by every physicist in this book) were weakened by quantum mechanics. You never know, the knowledge presented in this book may someday be overthrown as well. But in the meantime, Thorne does a great job of explaining it to those of us who are interested but don't have multiple PhD's.	2002-02-10
1670421:US	52697458	R5A3PA88TB74B	1555911765	715709558	God Is Red: A Native View of Religion	Books	3	14	19	N	N	Misleading and Disappointing	We should all have a huge amount of respect for Vine Deloria, as he is one of the finest modern Native American activists, and has contributed greatly to our understanding of his people. Unfortunately, here Deloria attempts to present Native beliefs in an \\"us vs. them\\" comparison with major religions (mostly Christianity), but this book does not succeed as a comparative religion study. ....<br />Throughout the book Deloria attempts to describe Christian beliefs while comparing them to Native beliefs, but only highlights the gaps in his own knowledge of Christianity. This is evident throughout, but here is one mind-boggling example from page 59 of the paperback, in a discussion of the political leanings of the church - \\"...the fundamentalists having been disappointed in the recent Gulf War which many of them felt forecast Armageddon and consequently supported vigorously.\\" One has to wonder how Deloria reached this conclusion. Christians liked the Gulf War because they couldn't wait for the end of the world? On page 232 he proclaims that the Presbyterian, Methodist, Roman Catholic, and Greek Orthodox churches are all exclusively left wing, and \\"for such denominations the mention of Jesus is both an embarrassment and a disappointment.\\" This is an example of a generalization for which there is surely little evidence. This would be similar to a fundamentalist Christian writing about the entire pantheon of Muslim beliefs after seeing a news report about a few terrorists in the Middle East.<br />On the good side, Deloria does drive home the point that Native religions are the only ones with a strong sense of \\"place\\" and a healthy respect for the Earth and the environment. He also deserves a vast amount of respect for drawing our attention to the current concerns of modern Indians. Most of us who call ourselves \\"concerned\\" about Indian culture and issues have the stereotypical view of valiant warriors in the 19th century, or pre-1492 noble savages. These images have about as much in common with modern Indians as George Washington's powdered wig has on America's sense of fashion. But once again, don't let Deloria's excellent other works cloud your judgment of the weaknesses of this book. If you are looking for either a straight description of Native American beliefs, or a comparison to other religions, you will be much better served elsewhere.s much in common with modern Indians as George Washington's powdered wig has on America's sense of fashion. But once again, don't let Deloria's excellent other works cloud your judgment of the weaknesses of this book. If you are looking for either a straight description of Native American beliefs, or a comparison to other religions, you will be much better served elsewhere.	2002-02-01
1689105:US	52697458	RVFJU5RZ9ICC5	0465023231	77147474	Virtual History: Alternatives And Counterfactuals	Books	2	110	126	N	N	What Is This Book Trying To Be?	Believe me, I really tried to appreciate this book as either a thought-provoking exploration of scenarios of alternate history, or as a solid study of the art of history itself. I was disappointed both ways. Strangely enough, this book is purported by the publisher and editor to be both of those things, but the results prove otherwise. This book is very unfocused and academically arrogant, and it barely even explores counterfactual history, except at an extremely basic and dry interpretation of the term. Note: This book is from England and is quite Anglo-centric, so a working knowledge of British history might be an asset before you begin (this is not a criticism, just a recommendation).<br />This book gets off to a horrendous start with Ferguson's 90-page introduction in which he attempts to explore the nuances and importance of counterfactual history. Instead he delivers an extremely tedious and repetitive treatise on the study of history itself, which has little to do with the supposed focus of the book. A large portion of this intro is dedicated to &quot;determinism&quot; vs. &quot;predestination&quot; in history, but this is historiography rather than an exploration of counterfactuals. This is also written in that dry and verbose academic style in which it is more important to endlessly pile on repetitive evidence in order to impress one's colleagues, than to actually enlighten the reader. Ferguson shows a sheer desperation to confound other historians who don't think highly of counterfactuals, and in the process forgets that he is writing a book for the public. He also complains about researchers in his field not being taken seriously, but then insults people in other fields who are interested in counterfactuals, such as sociologists and fiction writers.<br />After this tedious start, the book doesn't get much better, as various historians contribute chapters on key episodes in history. With only a few exceptions, each author commits the errors of the introduction by failing to explore counterfactuals, which is supposed to be the point, and merely shows off his own historical knowledge in tedious ways. One noteworthy exception is the essay on home rule in Northern Ireland. Otherwise, the pattern here is to spend 95% of the essay describing what really happened in a straight historical fashion, then briefly knock off a few possible alternative scenarios without really exploring them, as if the editor forced each author to do this. In the end, this book can't figure out what it wants to be, and you will be unable to figure out why you're reading it. Is it trying to comment on the study of history itself, or present straight history with an intellectual twist, or explore counterfactuals? It tries to do all of these, with disappointing levels of success, and is only unfocused as a result. If you decide to tackle this, good luck - you'll need it.tion by failing to explore counterfactuals, which is supposed to be the point, and merely shows off his own historical knowledge in tedious ways. One noteworthy exception is the essay on home rule in Northern Ireland. Otherwise, the pattern here is to spend 95% of the essay describing what really happened in a straight historical fashion, then briefly knock off a few possible alternative scenarios without really exploring them, as if the editor forced each author to do this. In the end, this book can't figure out what it wants to be, and you will be unable to figure out why you're reading it. Is it trying to comment on the study of history itself, or present straight history with an intellectual twist, or explore counterfactuals? It tries to do all of these, with disappointing levels of success, and is only unfocused as a result. If you decide to tackle this, good luck - you'll need it.	2002-01-18
1710618:US	52697458	R14O6YPJLCO9GE	0966410076	739549691	You Are Being Lied To: The Disinformation Guide to Media Distortion, Historical Whitewashes and Cultural Myths	Books	4	37	45	N	N	Of Course I'm Being Lied To	This literally gigantic book is a pretty useful collection of cases in which the authors think you've been misinformed (accidental) or disinformed (on purpose) by the so-called &quot;mainstream&quot; press. Most of the articles here, by a variety of authors, are from the Disinformation website. Part of the fun of this book is that you don't need to agree with everything here, or to even care. For example, why should you be shocked that 12-step rehab programs are partly based on religious help programs, even though some writer thinks you should be? The best articles in this book are free of polemics, don't try to get you riled up, and simply present the information in a levelheaded manner so you can reach your own conclusions. The best examples of this are &quot;Drug War Mythology&quot; and &quot;The Bible Code.&quot; And while it certainly helps to be left-of-center politically to read this stuff, you'd be surprised how some of the articles here give open-minded (and basically centrist) opinions, while compiling evidence against some of the Left's favorite causes. For example, &quot;'A World That Hates Gays'&quot; (meant to be an ironic title) is very critical of the gay rights movement, and &quot;Environmentalism for the 21st Century&quot; points out many flaws in Greenpeace and the most popular current environmentalist strategies.<br />Unfortunately, this book must be penalized for severe inconsistency. For every two levelheaded and thought-provoking articles, there is one written by the worst types of muckrakers, bleeding heart crybabies, hypersensitive PC-ers, and conspiracy theorists who accuse first then (fail to) prove later. Bad examples are &quot;The Truth About Jesus&quot; and &quot;Forbidden Archeology,&quot; which commit the error of concluding that the lack of evidence to support a competing theory automatically invalidates that theory, and hence proves the writer's theory by default. Neither of these articles comes anywhere close. There are several articles in this book which are nothing but laundry lists of so-called conspiracies that the writer tells you to worry about without offering proof (&quot;You Can't Win&quot; among others), and several are just blatant promotions for books being sold on the Disinfo website (&quot;Who's Who in Hell&quot; among others). The absolute low point in this book is the atrocious &quot;AA Lies&quot; in which writer Charles Bufe falls all over himself trying to debunk Alcoholics Anonymous, and to convince you that you should care, but merely proves that he's a muckraker trying to get some sort of personal revenge on AA. Or at least to promote non-AA treatment options that he probably has a stake in. Talk about conspiracies! These sub-par articles point to a need for greater editorial control, and badly damage this book that would be much stronger without them.<br />But in the end, even with many good articles and a smaller number of bad ones, this book suffers from a fundamental flaw. It's just a list that offers no solutions. Before reading this book, I already knew that the mainstream was holding back key information on a variety of issues. Now I have some more specific examples. But what am I going to do about it? Is there a way to change this unfortunate situation other than buying a book from the alternative press instead of the mainstream? Guess what - they're making money just like the enemy.icles in this book which are nothing but laundry lists of so-called conspiracies that the writer tells you to worry about without offering proof (&quot;You Can't Win&quot; among others), and several are just blatant promotions for books being sold on the Disinfo website (&quot;Who's Who in Hell&quot; among others). The absolute low point in this book is the atrocious &quot;AA Lies&quot; in which writer Charles Bufe falls all over himself trying to debunk Alcoholics Anonymous, and to convince you that you should care, but merely proves that he's a muckraker trying to get some sort of personal revenge on AA. Or at least to promote non-AA treatment options that he probably has a stake in. Talk about conspiracies! These sub-par articles point to a need for greater editorial control, and badly damage this book that would be much stronger without them.<br />But in the end, even with many good articles and a smaller number of bad ones, this book suffers from a fundamental flaw. It's just a list that offers no solutions. Before reading this book, I already knew that the mainstream was holding back key information on a variety of issues. Now I have some more specific examples. But what am I going to do about it? Is there a way to change this unfortunate situation other than buying a book from the alternative press instead of the mainstream? Guess what - they're making money just like the enemy.	2002-01-02
1722887:US	52697458	R3RE6W69AXQFO5	0618153594	126504763	The Best American Science & Nature Writing 2001 (The Best American Series)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Well-Selected and Compiled	The Best American Series delivers another winner here, with a fascinating and varied collection of articles and essays from a variety of sources. You know you're in good hands when the editor is Edward O. Wilson, who is among the best writers out there to present scientific thought in a way the more educated of the masses can understand (although his intro to this book is rather self-aggrandizing). In addition to writings on many different scientific disciplines, you also get a variety of philosophical viewpoints, most of which are very levelheaded. The best articles in this book include &quot;Abortion and Brain Waves&quot; which provides the most well-rounded, informed, and realistic viewpoint on the abortion issue you will likely ever see (you surely won't get this from politicians or activists on either side of the debate); plus &quot;Why the Future Doesn't Need Us&quot; which gives a very insightful outlook on the future of humanity in light of genetic engineering, robotics, and nanotechnology (though this article is too long and loses its focus near the end). Other winners include &quot;Baby Steps&quot; concerning infant knowledge and education, and &quot;The Genome Warrior&quot; which covers the politics of the human genome project. The nature and ecology-related articles here are generally weaker, including Jane Goodall's sappy and sentimental &quot;In the Forests of Gombe,&quot; and &quot;Being Prey&quot; which starts with a harrowing account of the author being attacked by a crocodile, but then awkwardly attempts to tie this attack to ruminations on feminism and vegetarianism (I have no problems with those doctrines, mind you). But those are just a couple of missteps in a fascinating and entertaining collection.	2001-12-23
1729152:US	52697458	RZJH7V3SBS3R9	0807055018	654628039	The Broken Spears: The Aztec Account of the Conquest of Mexico	Books	4	66	79	N	N	The View from the Vanquished	There are two sides to every story, and in history you usually only hear the victor's side. In standard Western-based histories of the Spanish conquest of Mexico, you are usually only told that Cortes and a few hundred valiant soldiers easily conquered the Aztec empire of several hundred thousand people. Another fallacy is that the Aztecs rolled over so easily because they thought the white men were gods returning from the sea. As can be seen in this book, this was true at first, but most of the Aztecs (except for the priests) quickly changed their opinion on the Spaniards when they saw their brutality and greed. The Spaniards also weren't such efficient conquerors - they had help from many thousands of natives who were the historical enemies of the Aztecs, especially the Tlaxcaltecas and Tezcocanos (they suffered just the same in the long run). Not to mention a handy smallpox epidemic that killed off a large chunk of the native population. This book (and countless others) shows that the soldiers were not driven by religious valor, hoping to save people in God's good name. Instead, they were driven by a greed for gold so virulent that they cried when they saw it, and a lust for heroism that could only be obtained through violent conquest.<br />This book is a useful introduction to the native view of this important event. After reading these accounts along with more traditional history texts, you will have sufficient knowledge of both sides of the story to reach your own balanced conclusions. Portilla mostly avoids editorializing (except for a few slip-ups), and simply presents the native accounts without embellishment. A bonus is the chapter covering the literature of the modern descendents of the Aztecs, now called Nahuas, proving that the conquest is still a strong influence on the resilient culture of these people. The problems with this book include the self-serving and rather pompous intro by Klor de Alva, plus an under-representation of the native texts. Portilla has unearthed much important material, but only presents small excerpts here, as if he packaged the book merely for entertainment rather than scholarly value. More would definitely be better in this case.lla has unearthed much important material, but only presents small excerpts here, as if he packaged the book merely for entertainment rather than scholarly value. More would definitely be better in this case.	2001-12-17
1739986:US	52697458	R3MBPM19JP668T	074343627X	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Painfully Obvious Lack of Ideas and Suspense	It was definitely good for Stephen King to write this book while recovering from his catastrophic accident, and he has translated some of his pain and agony in the book, especially in the form of one of the main characters, Jonesy, who has also been hit by a car. True King fans will send their best wishes in this regard, but unfortunately, &quot;Dreamcatcher&quot; is one of the weakest King books I have read (and I've read at least 22 of them). The problem here is a major shortage of ideas, believable characters, and suspense.<br />First, this book is basically a rehash of several earlier King works. Once again we get to sit through the concept of childhood friends with a special, psychic bond that lasts into adulthood. King has already beaten this concept to death in &quot;It,&quot; &quot;Stand By Me,&quot; and who knows where else, and here he destroys this tired concept once and for all (I hope). This book also displays one of King's longtime weaknesses - telling big chunks of the story through flashbacks. The main plotline of aliens attempting to take over humanity, but being thwarted by their own weaknesses and the unexpected resilience of humans, was already used in &quot;Tommyknockers,&quot; and much better. The main characters here (except possibly Duddits) are very narrowly defined and stereotypical, and are hard to empathize with. Worst yet are the two useless bad guys, the military commander Kurtz (ridiculously insane and narrow-minded) and his assistant Freddy (completely devoid of independent thought). These two guys are completely impossible to believe, and their presence doesn't even make that much sense to the story line. It's as if King felt the need to add two bad guys just because he thought it was necessary, and their function in the story seems like little more than a weak afterthought.<br />This book is also annoyingly slow-moving and devoid of suspense, especially with the tedious and never-ending chase scene that makes up a large portion of the book. King attempts to add suspense by moving the action along very slowly. That sometimes works (in the King classics), but here it's just tedious and misguided. You will also be distressed by this book's reliance on gross-out tactics, with belching, farting, and puking being major parts of the plot. &quot;Dreamcatcher&quot; would be a presentable novel by most other writers. But as part of King's fearsome overall career, it's mediocre at best.he book. King attempts to add suspense by moving the action along very slowly. That sometimes works (in the King classics), but here it's just tedious and misguided. You will also be distressed by this book's reliance on gross-out tactics, with belching, farting, and puking being major parts of the plot. &quot;Dreamcatcher&quot; would be a presentable novel by most other writers. But as part of King's fearsome overall career, it's mediocre at best.	2001-12-09
1744501:US	52697458	R2R20QUWB5TM86	0879305347	247476691	Unknown Legends of Rock 'n' Roll	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Time to Move from Unknown to Known!	Unterberger is a critic who really does have a deep knowledge of rock history, especially in terms of little-known artists who have had an unexpected influence on others. Don't be too concerned with who exactly is in this book, because in a world where there's ten thousand unknown bands for every successful rock star, it would be impossible to cover any representative number of &quot;unknowns&quot; in one book. So Unterberger has written about artists that he's familiar with, and he's especially keen on those that were noticed by other open-minded musicians, and have actually influenced the course of rock history in unexpected ways. A few surprise twists are bands that famous people were in during their developmental days, most notably Marc Bolan (T. Rex) in the unheralded psychedelic band John's Children. Also featured in the book is much needed information on artists that most astute rock fans probably have heard of, but for which there is precious little information available, such as Love and Nick Drake. So while it's clearly impossible to cover everybody, Unterberger has done a real service to the artists he includes here. This book has turned me into a real fan of both Love (a tremendous band that all serious fans of rock history should be aware of), plus the intriguing Middle Eastern troupe Aisha Kandisha's Jarring Effects. I have also found myself very interested in Savage Rose, the Music Machine, and the Deviants, but I wish I could track down some of their stuff. For that reason (among others) the CD that comes with this book is a great bonus.	2001-12-05
1749077:US	52697458	R9ZFTGF2PC58Q	0375705767	585847413	Eastward to Tartary: Travels in the Balkans, the Middle East, and the Caucasus	Books	5	26	28	N	N	The Master of Political and Historical Insights	I have read several of Kaplan's books and he continues his winning streak in this one. Unlike many travel writers who merely offer westernized descriptions of people and scenery in places that are already well known, Kaplan covers areas that most of us in the western world are unfamiliar with. Interesting places in this book include Turkey, Azerbaijan, and Turkmenistan. He also focuses on history and politics, and has remarkable insights into the possible futures of the regions he visits, and how the past influences the present and future to a much greater extent than in the West. Some key insights offered by Kaplan here include the notion that Europe is currently splitting into regions that are eerily similar to the Ottoman and Holy Roman empires of ancient times, with the collapse of communism and the weakening of NATO. Kaplan also predicts that the next Yugoslavia-style bloodbath, which will drag in the rest of the world, will occur in the Caucasus region (Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan). Tellingly, Chechnya is not too far away. Kaplan knows what he's talking about, as he predicted the Yugoslavia disaster back in the late 1980's. And throughout the book Kaplan proves that the collapse of communism and the rise of so-called democracy is only a good thing at a high level of international politics. But for millions and millions of regular people, life has become far more dangerous and miserable.<br />Since the portion of this book covering Romania and Bulgaria is meant as a sequel to Kaplan's earlier &quot;Balkan Ghosts,&quot; and since some of the other areas covered are also featured in &quot;The Ends of the Earth,&quot; this book is slightly weaker than those two masterpieces. Kaplan also occasionally stumbles into cultural arrogance when dealing with non-Western people and politics. However, these are slight weaknesses in a very strong book that offers highly enlightening insights into the history and peoples in areas that Americans should stop ignoring.	2001-12-02
1750672:US	52697458	R3UWG54R2KM8F7	0743215362	869948861	Tesla: Man Out of Time	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Fails to Illuminate the Man	This book reads more like a very long feature article for a newspaper than a biography. Nikola Tesla is fascinating because of his revolutionary and fantastical ideas. He never became rich and powerful because he was too busy racking up incredible new ideas, and never converted his ideas to commercial use (like his nemesis Thomas Edison). Tesla invented alternating current, and had a chance to make royalties from each and every use of AC by the public (potentially worth billions), but signed the royalties away to preserve his friendships with industrial titans. He discovered most of the concepts of radio, but lost a messy war of words and patent lawsuits with Marconi and Edison. He invented remote control and key aspects of robotics, and envisioned (in the late 1800's) a worldwide wireless communications system that companies are still trying to develop to this day. In fact, modern scientists often &quot;discover&quot; new phenomena that Tesla brought up so long ago that nobody remembers his work and fails to give him credit. This is why Tesla continues to be so under-appreciated. On the more outlandish side, Tesla theorized that he could utilize the electrical charges in the Earth's atmosphere to turn the entire planet into a giant fluorescent light bulb; and with his concept of mechanical resonance he theorized that he could create vibrations to destroy buildings or even split the Earth in two. He could electrify the Earth itself and make the soil crackle for miles around. This was when people started calling him a madman. Another interesting aspect of Tesla was his participation is high society, as he spent much of his life schmoozing rich benefactors for capital. Few scientists of his caliber today would be such social climbers.<br />Now what kind of a mind would lead to such a fascinating personality and such incredible ideas? You still can't tell, because Margaret Cheney fails to illuminate Tesla the man in this book. This biography is essentially the work of a reporter who has rehashed freely available information into the form of a special interest article in a local newspaper. There is more focus on Tesla's social calls and financial transactions than his ideas or personality. The book often digresses into useless detective work on the handling of Tesla's papers by various government agencies after his death, or descriptions of the current use of his ideas that read more like bizarre advertisements for the modern companies involved. One of the few attempts to provide insight into his personality is a completely ridiculous treatise stating that Tesla's hobby of caring for pigeons is related to a lack of breastfeeding as a baby. Of course, more information on how Tesla came up with his amazing ideas, and the workings of his unusual mind, is probably impossible to obtain, and this is not Cheney's fault. However, this biography is not very useful without it.f a reporter who has rehashed freely available information into the form of a special interest article in a local newspaper. There is more focus on Tesla's social calls and financial transactions than his ideas or personality. The book often digresses into useless detective work on the handling of Tesla's papers by various government agencies after his death, or descriptions of the current use of his ideas that read more like bizarre advertisements for the modern companies involved. One of the few attempts to provide insight into his personality is a completely ridiculous treatise stating that Tesla's hobby of caring for pigeons is related to a lack of breastfeeding as a baby. Of course, more information on how Tesla came up with his amazing ideas, and the workings of his unusual mind, is probably impossible to obtain, and this is not Cheney's fault. However, this biography is not very useful without it.	2001-12-01
1766224:US	52697458	R17GR6S2YP2XYA	0679749810	806639526	Balkan Ghosts: A Journey Through History	Books	5	27	38	N	N	Disturbing Insights into a Hopeless Region	In this book Robert Kaplan describes his travels in the 1980s and early 90s throughout the Balkan region, and with his insights into the area's politics and ethnic struggles, he correctly predicted the coming catastrophe that would engulf the area. Kaplan was one of the few western journalists who knew anything about the Balkans at the time, and nobody seemed to be very interested in this European backwater. Thus, the world was surprised by the orgy of war crimes and ethnic cleansing that erupted here in the 90s, but Kaplan wasn't. In the more recent introduction to the current edition, Kaplan gets rather big-headed talking about how his timely predictions came true, but not without justification, as his gifts for insight and observation gave him the prescience that nobody else had or wanted about this region.<br />While most travel writers stick to colorful (and western-oriented) descriptions of people and places, Kaplan instead focuses on history and politics, and their deep influences on the dynamics of the regions he visits. While traveling through Yugoslavia, Romania, Bulgaria, and Greece, he describes the deep historical and ethnic roots of these closely related countries. Here, events of 600 years ago still cause deep resentment. A history of small ethnic groups repeatedly conquering each other through the centuries, then being destroyed by outside invaders, has led to severe racial hatred and periodic outbursts of incredible violence. Kaplan provides great insight into the perpetual desire of these peoples to return to their periods of greatest historical strength and largest territories. A disturbing example of this is Macedonia, which both Greece and Serbia would like to annex because it contains populations of their kinsmen. Meanwhile the ethnic Macedonians think they are entitled to all the lands and peoples conquered by their native son Alexander the Great back in ancient times. There is a similar problem in Kosovo, coveted by Serbia and Albania for the same reasons. Also of note is Kaplan's section on Greece, which proves without a doubt that this nation is not the classical stereotype that the West thinks it is. Greece is far more similar to Turkey and the Middle East than to the mythical realm of Socrates and Aristotle. And they have the same insane and hateful politics and ethnic resentment as their neighbors Bulgaria and the former Yugoslavia.<br />The main problem throughout the region is that all these peoples live interspersed among each other, and would just love to force everyone else out and build their own pure kingdoms. The logistical impossibilities of this never stopped anyone though, resulting in many occurrences of mass genocide, which most of the ethnic groups in the region have both committed and suffered from at various points in history. For many miserable decades, the Ottoman and Soviet empires forced everybody in the region to shut up, which merely redirected the people's resentment toward these outside rulers. Nobody in the West should have been surprised when the people turned back to destroying each other when these empires collapsed. The most disturbing realization in this book is that (except for the Turks) these small, self-destructive, and murderous ethnic groups are not that different from each other, but that has not stopped them from a thousand years of back-and-forth enslavement and genocide. For those who think the world is destined to become a happy melting pot in which everyone drops their differences and lives in harmony - we could learn a lot from this region.e same reasons. Also of note is Kaplan's section on Greece, which proves without a doubt that this nation is not the classical stereotype that the West thinks it is. Greece is far more similar to Turkey and the Middle East than to the mythical realm of Socrates and Aristotle. And they have the same insane and hateful politics and ethnic resentment as their neighbors Bulgaria and the former Yugoslavia.<br />The main problem throughout the region is that all these peoples live interspersed among each other, and would just love to force everyone else out and build their own pure kingdoms. The logistical impossibilities of this never stopped anyone though, resulting in many occurrences of mass genocide, which most of the ethnic groups in the region have both committed and suffered from at various points in history. For many miserable decades, the Ottoman and Soviet empires forced everybody in the region to shut up, which merely redirected the people's resentment toward these outside rulers. Nobody in the West should have been surprised when the people turned back to destroying each other when these empires collapsed. The most disturbing realization in this book is that (except for the Turks) these small, self-destructive, and murderous ethnic groups are not that different from each other, but that has not stopped them from a thousand years of back-and-forth enslavement and genocide. For those who think the world is destined to become a happy melting pot in which everyone drops their differences and lives in harmony - we could learn a lot from this region.	2001-11-18
1775597:US	52697458	R2NZMB05ARAN8D	0060920084	754387444	The Lost Continent: Travels in Small-Town America	Books	3	22	25	N	N	A Crank Insults People and Places Nationwide	It seems that Bill Bryson is into the same things as me. In &quot;A Walk in the Woods&quot; he tackled my top hobby, hiking ridiculously long distances. In this book, he covers my other hobby, driving ridiculously long distances. Bryson's travelogue through small towns in 38 states is very observant and often hysterically funny. He's got good insights into the attitudes and friendliness (or lack thereof) of people in different regions of the country, and he writes thoughtfully on the destruction of America's small town charm by never-ending stretches of strip malls and fast food joints.<br />But even though Bryson is very thoughtful and funny, this book can really get on your nerves at times. This is because Bryson is an extremely arrogant and tactless man. He dislikes everybody with different backgrounds than him, and every place that is different from his home area. He calls people and even entire groups of people obscene names throughout the book. He's got a serious problem with fat jokes, obsessively ripping on overweight people in extremely cruel ways. (By the way, look at the picture of Bryson on the back cover. You can only see his head and shoulders, but he still doesn't look like the skinniest guy in the world). Bryson demeans people who choose to live in big cities, which he can't understand, and he demeans people who live in the countryside, which he also can't understand. He hates people who can't follow directions, but gets lost several times in the book himself. At the lowest points of the book, Bryson mentions how he wants to punch an old lady in the head for cutting in line, how he wants to whack a panhandler with a stick, and how he would like to slap a little boy in Vermont just for being ugly. And he's going to get in a lot of trouble if he doesn't tone down his descriptions of poor black people in the South.<br />Bryson also can't stand any of the places he visits. Through most of the book, he obnoxiously rolls into a location expecting simplistic stereotypes, then criticizes each place for not living up to his unrealistic expectations (a major problem in the section covering New England). He calls almost every small town backwards and boring without taking the time to explore, and passes judgment on large cities (Cleveland and Detroit) after driving right through without stopping. He even finds a way to hate the tremendous national parks out west, like Yosemite for having road signs that aren't descriptive enough, or Sequoia because he couldn't drive his car through a tree (and manages to insult the trees in the process). So I can sort of enjoy Bryson's books on a general level, but I sure was glad when he got back home and brought this book to a close.ic stereotypes, then criticizes each place for not living up to his unrealistic expectations (a major problem in the section covering New England). He calls almost every small town backwards and boring without taking the time to explore, and passes judgment on large cities (Cleveland and Detroit) after driving right through without stopping. He even finds a way to hate the tremendous national parks out west, like Yosemite for having road signs that aren't descriptive enough, or Sequoia because he couldn't drive his car through a tree (and manages to insult the trees in the process). So I can sort of enjoy Bryson's books on a general level, but I sure was glad when he got back home and brought this book to a close.	2001-11-11
1775872:US	52697458	R2763FFEJZOIYK	0195051807	525111510	The Harvest of Sorrow: Soviet Collectivization and the Terror-Famine	Books	5	98	104	N	N	The Horror and Futility of It All	In another tremendous masterpiece of Soviet history, Robert Conquest covers Stalin's manmade famines in this book. Here Conquest provides devastating evidence of the complete insanity and megalomania of communism, especially the Stalinist variety. Regardless of your political leanings, this book proves without a doubt what a cruel, deadly, and completely impossible system communism really is. Stalin and his yes-men decided to embark on an insane crash agricultural collectivization program in the 1920's and 30's, hoping to replace the &quot;backwards&quot; system of humble peasants on their own plots (which had been successful for millennia), with a glorious system of industrialized megafarms that would supply the state directly. The first problem was that the state usually required deliveries so impossibly high that the farmers/peasants had nothing left for themselves. This caused a complete breakdown in the agricultural economy (no incentives to produce), plus a famine in which 14 million people died.<br />When the system failed, Stalin and his henchmen became obsessed with finding the &quot;enemy&quot; who was holding everything back. The enemy became the mostly fictitious group of people called &quot;kulaks,&quot; theoretically prosperous peasants who were holding back the masses and the glorious Soviet future. Since these people mostly didn't exist, the regime had to invent them. Therefore any peasant who had one more cow, one more acre, and was slightly less emaciated than everyone else was branded as a kulak and eliminated. Hundreds of thousands of innocent people were condemned for life in this insanity. Conquest provides plenty of evidence that the Soviet agricultural program could have been slightly more successful if they weren't busy killing and deporting such huge numbers of potential farmers, and if they had gotten over their irrational search for &quot;enemies&quot; and faced facts instead.<br />Of special interest in this book is Conquest's side trip to Kazakhstan, where the Soviets attempted the same program, making nomadic peoples settle down and raise crops that couldn't possibly survive in the area. This led to a famine that killed one million people. This was an accident, but Stalin learned that famine could be used as a weapon. The book then focuses on the Ukraine, which was full of pesky nationalists who didn't want to be a part of the USSR. First, the regime decided for themselves that the &quot;masses&quot; in the Ukraine hated their own language, culture, and institutions (how could anyone possibly believe this?), and that the masses were being held from glory by a few backwards enemies who wanted to remain Ukrainian. Apparently the &quot;true&quot; workers of the Ukraine would want to be Russianized; so the Soviets executed, deported, or starved as &quot;class enemies&quot; every person who disagreed (that is, almost everybody). The resulting cultural chaos and failed agricultural system resulted in one of the greatest death tolls in history, taken out deliberately on the people of the Ukraine.<br />This book is slightly weaker than Conquest's all time classic &quot;The Great Terror,&quot; especially in the tendency toward statistical overload. He also assumes that you have read his other works, and keep many things under-explained in this book. Most of the officials and politicians in the book are only identified by their last names and have little or no introductions, plus Conquest assumes that you would know the meanings of esoteric terms like &quot;Borotbist&quot; or &quot;Petliuraist.&quot; This can make the book difficult for the layman.to Kazakhstan, where the Soviets attempted the same program, making nomadic peoples settle down and raise crops that couldn't possibly survive in the area. This led to a famine that killed one million people. This was an accident, but Stalin learned that famine could be used as a weapon. The book then focuses on the Ukraine, which was full of pesky nationalists who didn't want to be a part of the USSR. First, the regime decided for themselves that the &quot;masses&quot; in the Ukraine hated their own language, culture, and institutions (how could anyone possibly believe this?), and that the masses were being held from glory by a few backwards enemies who wanted to remain Ukrainian. Apparently the &quot;true&quot; workers of the Ukraine would want to be Russianized; so the Soviets executed, deported, or starved as &quot;class enemies&quot; every person who disagreed (that is, almost everybody). The resulting cultural chaos and failed agricultural system resulted in one of the greatest death tolls in history, taken out deliberately on the people of the Ukraine.<br />This book is slightly weaker than Conquest's all time classic &quot;The Great Terror,&quot; especially in the tendency toward statistical overload. He also assumes that you have read his other works, and keep many things under-explained in this book. Most of the officials and politicians in the book are only identified by their last names and have little or no introductions, plus Conquest assumes that you would know the meanings of esoteric terms like &quot;Borotbist&quot; or &quot;Petliuraist.&quot; This can make the book difficult for the layman.	2001-11-11
1784216:US	52697458	R11P2PD0BAWKU8	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A Mostly Enjoyable Travelogue, On Foot	As a long-time hiker who prefers to trek for suicidally long distances, I really enjoyed this book by Bill Bryson. His books are not very dense and do not consist of heavy, research-oriented reading. Instead, he offers pleasant and enjoyable observations on the people he meets and places he sees during his travels. This particular travelogue just happens to be on foot. Unfortunately, Bryson has some real weaknesses, as his writing style can be annoyingly sappy and sentimental on occasion, and his observations on regular people who disagree with him are often unnecessarily cruel. Though Bryson and his hysterically cranky and out-of-shape partner Katz failed to hike the entire 2100 miles of the Appalachian Trail (they actually conquered about 850 miles), they truly learned about the long-distance hiking experience. Unlike some other reviewers, I don't really see this failure to complete the trail as a weakness for the book.<br />Bryson includes astute and hilarious observations of obnoxious partiers on the trail, people who are dreadfully under-prepared for a grueling long distance hike (except for himself), and outfitters who charge ridiculous prices for useless items. Especially interesting are some of his darker observations on rampant development and loss of wildlife habitat along the trail. I was most interested in his observations on my particular region, central and eastern Pennsylvania, in which the AT travels through some areas of unbelievable environmental devastation, amid a landscape irreparably damaged by coal mines and heavy industry. Also note his side-trip to Centralia, PA, a near-ghost town that has been sitting on top of a burning coal mine for the last 40 years.<br />A final bonus of this book is Bryson's commentary on some of the hardy and valiant souls who have completed (or &quot;thru-hiked&quot;) the entire 2100 miles of the AT. Favorites include a 400-pound man who completed the trek and managed to lose (only) 75 pounds; a blind man who did the whole thing with his seeing-eye dog and fell down an estimated 5000 times; and the marathon runner who ran the entire distance carrying only a water bottle, which was replenished by strategically-placed friends along the way. This last guy spent the last few hundred miles crying uncontrollably. That trail can really do things to people.e whole thing with his seeing-eye dog and fell down an estimated 5000 times; and the marathon runner who ran the entire distance carrying only a water bottle, which was replenished by strategically-placed friends along the way. This last guy spent the last few hundred miles crying uncontrollably. That trail can really do things to people.	2001-11-05
1789683:US	52697458	R3IAE1RTVS81CY	0812922107	865276047	The Black Man's Burden: Africa and the Curse of the Nation-State	Books	3	18	26	N	N	So-So Political Science, Unfocused Overall	According to the list at the beginning of this book, Basil Davidson has written almost 30 books on African politics and society, and he has studied these topics for decades, so he definitely knows what he's talking about. Unfortunately he knows even more about Eastern Europe, which he can't stop talking about (much to this book's detriment); and he gets himself into trouble by approaching areas that he's clearly not strong in, like cultural anthropology. Hence, Davidson takes a subject in which he could have written an authoritative masterpiece, and delivers a rambling, unfocused mess instead.<br />Davidson tries to present past events and their influence on the current world, which requires distinct and chronological history writing, but this is a failure as he keeps jumping around from ancient to modern times with no rhyme or reason. He also tries to tie the ancient beliefs and customs of African peoples to their success, or lack thereof, in modern nation building, but he doesn't know enough about cultural anthropology to do much more than frustratingly skirt this interesting concept. And the biggest blunder in this book is Davidson's refusal to directly address the most commonly accepted theory that political scientists use to describe Africa's current problems. This would be the stipulation that the national borders in Africa don't make any sense, and are leftovers from old colonial partitions. Many ethnic groups are spread across multiple &quot;nations,&quot; peoples within the same national borders often hate each other, and people are often more closely allied to their kinsmen in other countries instead of other peoples in their own nation. This explains why most African nations are a mess, because these &quot;countries&quot; are only accepted as entities by the outside world, and not by the people living in them. Davidson states early in the book that this phenomenon is irrelevant to discussions of current African politics. But he still can't help coming back to this theory again and again, such as in his discussions of social processes in Senegal, Gambia, Guinea, and Liberia. Instead, he dwells on the unconvincing argument that the problem is caused by Europe-inspired political models used in the nation-building process.<br />Davidson spends at least half of this book trying to define the term &quot;nation-state,&quot; as opposed to &quot;country&quot; or &quot;nation.&quot; There are some important nuances between these terms, especially for political science, but taking so much time to cover them is unnecessary. In his discussion of the historical development of African nation-states, Davidson inexplicably forgets to mention Ethiopia and their King Haile Selassie. This nation was the only African state within thousands of miles to remain intact and non-European during the colonial period. Ethiopia would be enormously relevant to this discussion. Most irritatingly, chapters 5 and 9 (one-fifth of the book) are entirely about Europe. Here Davidson tries to amaze us with his knowledge of European history to endlessly draw weak comparisons to nation-state processes in Africa. These two chapters only contain a few useless non-sequiturs to remind you that you're reading a book about Africa. A much more useful comparison would be with independence movements in Latin America, but apparently Davidson only avoids that area so he doesn't have to do more research into it.k to this theory again and again, such as in his discussions of social processes in Senegal, Gambia, Guinea, and Liberia. Instead, he dwells on the unconvincing argument that the problem is caused by Europe-inspired political models used in the nation-building process.<br />Davidson spends at least half of this book trying to define the term &quot;nation-state,&quot; as opposed to &quot;country&quot; or &quot;nation.&quot; There are some important nuances between these terms, especially for political science, but taking so much time to cover them is unnecessary. In his discussion of the historical development of African nation-states, Davidson inexplicably forgets to mention Ethiopia and their King Haile Selassie. This nation was the only African state within thousands of miles to remain intact and non-European during the colonial period. Ethiopia would be enormously relevant to this discussion. Most irritatingly, chapters 5 and 9 (one-fifth of the book) are entirely about Europe. Here Davidson tries to amaze us with his knowledge of European history to endlessly draw weak comparisons to nation-state processes in Africa. These two chapters only contain a few useless non-sequiturs to remind you that you're reading a book about Africa. A much more useful comparison would be with independence movements in Latin America, but apparently Davidson only avoids that area so he doesn't have to do more research into it.	2001-10-31
1801743:US	52697458	R2S13051X0COPI	0740714198	735841266	Einstein's Refrigerator and Other Stories from Flip Side Of	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Not Too Heavy, but an Enjoyable Diversion	This is a pretty lightweight book, consisting of humorous and bizarre stories of weird history, reprinted from Silverman's &quot;Useless Information&quot; website. But Silverman freely admits that he's not trying to be dense or research-oriented, and just wants to provide some fun reading. In this regard, the book works well as an enjoyable and breezy diversion, and offers light reading for a day when you want to beat the blahs and feed your mind a little. Silverman isn't even trying very hard - the different sections of the book have trite titles like &quot;Oops,&quot; &quot;Hmmm,&quot; and &quot;Unbelievable&quot; (I wonder why he bothered), and in a rather annoying way he ends every single story with the line &quot;Useless? Useful? I'll Leave That For You to Decide.&quot; But the stories are quite enjoyable and often very informative in an offbeat way. Favorites include the stories about the invention of Vaseline and kitty litter, the truly bizarre story of a lake disappearing into a collapsed salt mine in Louisiana, and of course Einstein's refrigerator. (In case you're wondering, Einstein really did invent a new type of refrigerator, but it wasn't practical for home use. His technology is now used in nuclear reactors.) The best story in the book is the one on the unappreciated genius Nikola Tesla, which has encouraged me to read more about this man's accomplishments. Plus, you just gotta love the bat bomb.<br />Note: I recommend Silverman's &quot;Useless Information&quot; website, which contains the type of stories found in this book, and is another enjoyable diversion when you're at a boring job with online access.	2001-10-21
1807925:US	52697458	R2L76IC38Z2ZV1	0312134991	47632233	Funk: The Music, The People, and The Rhythm of The One	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Can't Barely Handle This Much Funk!	First, I propose a small title change for this book. It should be called &quot;THE Funk&quot;. The word &quot;funk&quot; only refers to a musical genre. But THE Funk entails the whole lifestyle, attitude, and philosophy that go with the music. And that's what this book is about.<br />Rickey Vincent provides all the info you could possibly dig on the origins, artists, and influence behind the funk bomb that has been shaking the Earth since the 60's. You get the deep, ancient funk origins in jazz, soul, R&amp;B, and even rockers like Hendrix and Santana. As should be expected, there's a ton of props for the musicians who invented funk, especially the Godfather, my main man James Brown; not to mention the old-school master, Sly Stone. Once the funk really took off in the 70's, Vincent provides top coverage of the entire phenomenon, with props for big men like the Isley Brothers, Ohio Players, Kool &amp; the Gang, and Earth Wind &amp; Fire; and unearths long-lost funkateeers like Slave and Zapp, who are ripe for rediscovery. But where would we be without P-Funk? No problem, as Vincent gives us an entire section on the most important and influential funk mob of all time, George Clinton's Parliament/Funkadelic thang. The story continues into the present with coverage of funk that survived underground in the 80's, and then rocked the world again in the 90's. Most interesting is Vincent's coverage of funk's humungous influence on the hip-hop nation, as well as a whole branch of rock-n-roll (populated by bands like Red Hot Chili Peppers and Primus).<br />When funk history gets ragged in the late 70's and early 80's, Vincent gets carried away in his endless condemnation of disco (you don't really need to say how much disco reeked), as well as the other new forms of dance music that temporarily buried the funk. But not to worry, because in the 90's the funk re-emerged triumphantly and in top booty-shakin' form. And get a load of the appendix, &quot;Essential Funk Recordings,&quot; in which Vincent provides a gargantuan list of classic funk albums that will keep you on a buying spree for the rest of your life.&quot; in which Vincent provides a gargantuan list of classic funk albums that will keep you on a buying spree for the rest of your life.	2001-10-17
1814274:US	52697458	RYICR5T7OVK7X	0312890001	534545162	Wraeththu	Books	3	15	20	N	N	Tantalizing, but Slow-Moving and Uneven	This sweeping, gothic epic almost blew my mind, but just not quite. The premise is very intriguing, the characters and settings are highly creative, and the sexual weirdness of the novel offers a lot of food for thought. The fact that the author is a woman leads you to think about the premise very carefully. If you did not know this, you would probably assume that the writer was a gay male who has envisioned a wishful future fantasy in which super-enlightened gay men rule the earth, and where women and straight men are obsolete and extinct. But since the writer is a woman, it's not quite that simple, and the gender-bending, androgynous Wraeththu can instead be seen as enlightened male figures who are in touch with their feminine sides (a weakness among human men, of course). Besides, eventually we learn that there are females working behind the scenes anyway.<br />Unfortunately this book has a lot of problems. One of the author's major weaknesses is in writing believable dialogue. This is especially a problem in the second book. The characters engage in stilted, herky-jerky conversations that are damaged by ridiculous mood swings. Characters become inexplicably offended, angered, hurt, and exasperated by innocuous comments from the other person. These are apparently the author's unsuccessful attempts to make the conversations more interesting or dramatic. Also, the book is annoyingly slow in getting to the point, as you have to needlessly wait forever to see why everybody in Wraeththu society thinks Calanthe is such a big deal, and we never do learn why Thiede was interested in Pellaz and Cal so much that he wanted to either make them gods or destroy them. Finally, the author fails to expand upon the supposed theme of the book -- which is the fact that even though the Wraeththu are supposed to be the super-advanced and enlightened successors of mankind, they have succumbed to mankind's sins and weaknesses by forgetting why they are special.<br />The publisher is guilty of many offenses as well. The summary on the back cover says: &quot;They are destined to supplant humanity as we know it, but humanity won't die without a struggle.&quot; This is WRONG. Humanity is essentially out of the picture before the story begins. Also, there is a very misleading female character in the back cover illustration. And this book is full of typos.lty of many offenses as well. The summary on the back cover says: &quot;They are destined to supplant humanity as we know it, but humanity won't die without a struggle.&quot; This is WRONG. Humanity is essentially out of the picture before the story begins. Also, there is a very misleading female character in the back cover illustration. And this book is full of typos.	2001-10-10
1831275:US	52697458	RQJN8P6YA8RF	0806118288	567201239	Geronimo: The Man, His Time, His Place (The Civilization of the American Indian Series)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A Quality Bio on a Fascinating Character	This biography truly reveals the man behind the myth. Geronimo has had a reputation as either a bloodthirsty, pitiless scalp hunter (the conservative view), or as a divinely-guided leader trying desperately to save his people from destruction (the romantic view). Both of these are partially correct, but neither gives any indication of Geronimo as a human being, and that's what Debo does ably in this book. Debo compiles all the information available to give an impressively detailed portrait of the man's life, and uncovers many aspects of his personality, both good and bad. So we get the predicted praise for his bravery and honesty; but the author is not afraid to criticize his ill temper, vindictiveness, and lack of eloquence.<br />While the focus remains on Geronimo himself, this book also serves as an informative history of the final days of Apache independence. Many interesting characters are covered in a good amount of detail when Geronimo is absent from the narrative, like Victorio, Loco, Chihuahua, Kaywaykla, Naiche (my personal favorite) and even the white generals Crook and Howard. There is ample coverage of the tribe's post-glory days when they were imprisoned on various disagreeable reservations, and the depressing consequences of the loss of their culture and the deaths of many tribe members from disease. The only flaws in this book are Debo's criticism of previous information sources as inaccurate (they were, but the author's criticism is often arrogant), and a rather sappy, overly sentimental writing style.	2001-09-23
1833814:US	52697458	RX0BPGAFOQE76	0395924820	535179463	Slippage: Previously Uncollected, Precariously Poised Stories	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Nearly the Best of Ellison	This great collection gives you a representative sampling of Ellison's best short stories, and prove that he is far from a science fiction writer, which is what most people think. Sure, some of his stories definitely are sci-fi, like &quot;Chatting with Anubis&quot; and &quot;Midnight in the Sunken Cathedral&quot;. However, most of Ellison's tales are better described as speculative fiction, and mostly consist of biting social observation. The best example is the classic &quot;Mefisto in Onyx&quot; which adds the supernatural to a treatise on racial tension, and the &quot;Nackles&quot; stories which deal with the uncomfortable realities of child abuse in the guise of a Christmas fairy tale. Ellison even veers into fantasy (&quot;The Dragon on the Bookshelf&quot;) and bizarre character sketches (&quot;The Man Who Rowed Christopher Columbus Ashore&quot;) while keeping his offbeat but perceptive worldview intact.<br />Here you can see that Ellison as a writer is impossible to categorize, and also impossible to ignore. (Note: For an even better collection, see the similarly-packaged volume &quot;Angry Candy&quot;.)	2001-09-20
1833815:US	52697458	RIOQ066E9GRW0	0738203750	213322174	John Muir: Rediscovering America	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Biography and Environmental Treatise	I've often been fascinated by John Muir, ever since I started visiting many different national parks out west and seeing his name cited everywhere as an inspiration. If you are interested in environmental ethics and theory (as opposed to simplistic tree-hugging and other poorly-considered theories), and if you have a primal love for the outdoors, then John Muir is your man. Here Frederick Turner has written a solid biography of the man, with all the research and articulation that should be expected. Turner also includes a large dose of Muir's opinions and theories, as well as the historical and political background behind Muir's actions and thought processes. Therefore, what we have here is not just an informative biography on the public person, but an enlightening treatise on environmental ethics and theory, as defined by the brilliant mind of Muir himself.	2001-09-20
1833883:US	52697458	R1KW2I8XE139F3	0062734172	212117278	Everything Is Under Control: Conspiracies, Cults, and Cover-ups	Books	3	3	11	N	N	You're Such a Tool!	R.A. Wilson has become the leading &quot;researcher&quot; and authority on conspiracy theories after his head-tripping classic Illuminatus! trilogy, which incorporated most of the world's most popular theories into a work of fiction that you'd have to take huge amounts of LSD to fully understand. Much of his post-Illuminatus! work descends into ridiculous levels of paranoia, as Wilson tends to theorize that everything that ever happens in the world is part of vast overwhelming conspiracy in which everyone else is out to get him and the few others who are in his intellectual league. In this book Wilson manages to keep a mostly detached stance and constructs a list of conspiracy theories in encyclopedic form. So you get the maximum quantity of different theories, but there's not a heck of alot of background on each one. Some of the more intruiging discoveries in this book are the connections between Aleister Crowley and H.P. Lovecraft, and evidence that so-called altruistic groups like the Committee to Protect the Rights and Priveleges of Low-Cost Housing may just be front for the rich and powerful (as well as unsurprising groups like the World Bank and Federal Reserve). You get the expected references to the Freemasons, Illuminati, and Rosicrucians, plus some surprises like the False Memory Syndrome Foundation and various AIDS awareness groups, which you may view with deep suspicion after reading this book.<br />But if you think about it, most of these conspiracy theories are so simplistic and predictable, that you'd think &quot;THEY&quot; created them just to keep you in the dark! Maybe &quot;THEY&quot; want you to believe to this stuff so you don't ask questions about what's REALLY going on! Man, you're such a tool...	2001-09-20
1833954:US	52697458	RMTA4IDKRKVTT	0395924812	543398372	Angry Candy	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Ellison At His Most Mind-Boggling	I've read several Ellison collections and this one has the best survey of his most thought-provoking and gut-wrenching work. Ellison is often misrepresented as a straight sci-fi writer, but any cursory glance at his diverse offerings will immediately disprove this stereotype. However, Ellison occasionally does tackle sci-fi. When he does, he's one of the best, as in this book's centerpiece: the mind-shattering and intellectually overwhelming tale &quot;The Region Between&quot;, which is one of the best short stories I have ever come across.<br />The diversity of Ellison's work can be seen in the next story, the hysterical &quot;Laugh Track&quot; (I read this story on a plane and made the person next to me think I was mental, trying desperately not to laugh out loud). Ellison tackles many topics with a keen eye on social observation and a deadly sharp tongue, like race relations in &quot;Paladin of the Lost Hour&quot; and fraud and deception in &quot;On the Slab.&quot; Of special note in this book is the introduction, in which Ellison laments the deaths of 44 of his friends within a two-year period, and gives one of the most unique interpretations of life and death you're likely to ever see.	2001-09-20
1834107:US	52697458	R2ULNVOM39AG06	080612606X	208436598	Cochise: Chiricahua Apache Chief (The Civilization of the American Indian Series)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Authoritative, Even-Handed, with Exhaustive Research	I was highly impressed by the exhaustive research conducted by Sweeney for this biography of Cochise, who was surely one of the most impressive Indian chiefs ever. Sweeney's extensive use of obscure documents and recollections, as well as general knowledge of nearby events and geography, give this biography an authority that you don't often see in the historical bio field. Therefore Cochise clearly emerges from the world of rumors and romanticism, and is shown as a true man with real concerns and actions. So instead of the ruthless, bloodthirsty savage of popular legend, we see that Cochise was a highly intelligent leader of men and was nearly a military genius. He managed to fight a nearly even war with White settlers for a much longer time than any other Native American leader. This would not have been possible if Cochise were not a clear-thinking man of great intelligence, and Sweeney gives exhaustive proof that this was the case.<br />Sweeney's historical and geographic backgrounds, as well as extensive testimonials from the characters around Cochise, truly make the story come alive. Of special interest are many of Sweeney's footnotes, in which he gives a brief life story of just about every single person mentioned in the story (wherever possible). Sweeney is also ready to admit when information is missing, which is very refreshing for a biography. And in an even-handed fashion, Sweeney is not afraid to criticize Cochise at points, such as when he flouted his agreement to stay on the Chiricahua reservation to allow his warriors to continue raiding in Mexico.<br />Anyone who reads this book will come to greatly respect Cochise as a man, even if some of his actions were brutal. Unfortunately, this story ends like all other works of Native American history, with the eventual destruction of the people's independence. But while he was in his prime, you can't help but root for Cochise.	2001-09-20
1834117:US	52697458	R38MAMX1KAZQDU	0312890125	266297556	Remaking History and Other Stories	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Groundbreaking, But...	Kim Stanley Robinson has justly been praised for the fact that his work, which ably combines science fiction and historical research, has broken new ground in fiction writing. Unfortunately, some of the stories in this collection prove that breaking new ground doesn't necessarily mean your stories are readable or believable. Robinson sometimes has trouble encouraging you to care about the point or the moral in his offbeat ideas. The worst example of this problem here is the ridiculous &quot;Zurich&quot; in which a man gets too much bleach on his fingers and finds that he can turn anything white - an interesting premise but Robinson's attempt to transform this into a treatise on social consciousness is a failure. Other offenders are the sappy &quot;The Part of Us That Loves&quot; and &quot;Glacier&quot; which are very awkward attempts to mix morality and speculative fiction. However, I would recommend some of these stories, like the intriguing historical fiction/sci-fi tales &quot;Muir on Shasta&quot; and &quot;Vinland the Dream&quot;. And this entire book is almost saved by the terrifying and disturbing &quot;Before I Wake&quot;, a nightmarish tale about nightmares.	2001-09-20
1834558:US	52697458	RFBOUKOW6DFS6	0140150129	472703620	The Portable Edgar Allan Poe (Portable Library)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	All the Poe You'll Ever Need	Unless you're a collector or completist, this volume compiles all the Poe you could possibly ask for. All the classic stories are here, and you can clearly see how Poe broke new ground and influenced all creative fiction that came after him. While most people are wary of &quot;classics&quot; that everybody talks about, but nobody seems to really like, Poe's classics will give you a true appreciation for his genius. You will truly be enthralled by such well-known tales like &quot;The Pit and the Pendulum&quot;, &quot;The Tell-Tale Heart&quot;, &quot;The Murders in the Rue Morgue&quot; (in which Poe invents the detective story), and especially the immortal &quot;The Raven&quot;.<br />The editor has included many of the surviving letters that Poe wrote to the various women he unsuccessfully tried to court, and especially to his cruel stepfather, which provide great insight into Poe's inner demons. If you ever wonder why most of Poe's stories are based on death and/or madness, these letters will show you why. The only problem with this particular book is that it is a little too exhaustive, and includes many items that are more of historical interest than they are readable. This is true of most of the entries in the Articles, Criticism, and Opinions sections of the book.	2001-09-20
1834646:US	52697458	R3R76AVRCUROT7	0609808346	31822737	Dispatches from the Tenth Circle: The Best of The Onion	Books	5	74	78	N	N	You Can't Beat The Onion for Dark Humor	While just about every single word in this volume is reprinted from the weekly editions on The Onion's website, you still gotta love this book which you can take anywhere, and make people wonder while you're laughing so hard. Most people think The Onion is merely a political satire and humor magazine, but the way they make fun of current events is surprisingly deep and the dark, observational humor is often ingenious and even disturbing.<br />Headlines of note in this book are &quot;ACLU Defends Nazis' Right to Burn Down ACLU Headquarters&quot; in which The Onion finds the contradications in so-called political correctness (lest you think The Onion is all bleeding-heart leftists); &quot;Columbine Jocks Safely Resume Bullying&quot; in which The Onion can see the uncomfortable truth that nobody else wants to admit to; and &quot;Hershey's Ordered to Pay Obese Americans $135 Billion&quot; where we can see the irony and hypocrisy in lawsuits that people use to blame others for their problems.<br />To alleviate the heaviness, many of the articles are just plain slapstick humor, but always with an intelligent edge, like &quot;Dolphins Evolve Opposable Thumbs&quot;, or &quot;Casual One-Nighter Gives Strom Thurmond Change of Heart on Homosexuality Issue.&quot;<br />Whether the stories are just lightweight social satire, or downright disturbing and deeply insightful, they're mostly hysterical in the true Onion tradition. Even the pieces by the &quot;guest columnists&quot; can be deeper than expected. But in light of recent events, watch out for the stories &quot;Terrorist Annoyed by Delayed Flight&quot; and &quot;Arabs, Israelis Sign 'Screw Piece' Accord&quot;. Some of this humor isn't for the easily disturbed or offended, that's for sure.	2001-09-20
1834677:US	52697458	R81O3AMQ3MA5U	0140129863	316220758	Native American Testimony: A Chronicle of Indian-White Relations from Prophecy to the Present	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Enlightening Observations from All of History	In this book, people who have read alot into Native American history will see the more famous Indian testimonials that have appeared in many other places, like those by heavily published persons like Black Elk, Tecumseh, and Charles Eastman (Sioux). You also get many anonymous accounts and the testimony from obscure persons who were only known to give their thoughts to a few white people. What sets this book above the rest, however, is that it doesn't just cover the time periods that are shown in most Native American histories, which would either be ancient pre-European times, or the famous era of the Indians' destruction and valiant efforts to maintain the old ways of life. This book also covers those areas, as it should, but continues into the modern reservation days, and even captures the thoughts of recent activists on the future of Native Americans. All people will be enlightened by the non-Western interpretations on history, religion, politics, and culture that are generously detailed in this book.	2001-09-20
1845735:US	52697458	R1INDYGNFMDU7U	0446394319	563837809	Hendrix: Setting the Record Straight	Books	4	48	55	N	N	The Most Even-Handed Hendrix Bio Available	Disclaimer: Huge Hendrix worshipper! When this book appeared in 1992 it was (and still is) the most even-handed biography on Jimi. Previous bios were from either muckrakers who were trying to damage his legacy, or by people who never met him and were trying to make grand statements about his talent. In this book McDermott has taken the time to get first-hand accounts from those who knew Hendrix best, including bandmates and business associates. The most valuable asset here is engineer Eddie Kramer, who was Hendrix's close friend and trusted creative confidant. (However, it seems that Noel Redding was consulted less than other bandmates, possibly because he had a more unflattering story to tell).<br />Getting these valuable first-hand accounts gives us a very balanced view of Jimi's personality, and both sides of the coin are shown. You get the expected admiration for his talent, and the good sides of his personality. You also get the not-so-good parts, such as Jimi's paranoia, insecurities, and appallingly poor business sense. This book is not afraid to give bad reviews of Hendrix's poor live performances with the Experience when they were on the verge of splintering, or with the undeveloped Band of Gypsys. Also, his pathetic death (choking on his own vomit) is not dwelled upon and is treated as the senseless mistake it really was, rather than the noble, romanticized exit from this world (or even suicide) that you'll hear about in other accounts.<br />The excessive details about Hendrix's sloppy business arrangements provide valuable information, even though these passages get very long-winded and detract from the focus of the book - which is the man and his music. Also, be suspicious of character descriptions of people who are not around to give their side of the story. This doesn't apply to Hendrix himself, as described above, but to late manager Michael Jeffery. This man surely left plenty of evidence that he was paranoid and power-hungry, but the descriptions of his personality by the people in the book, most of whom didn't like him, should be treated with suspicion, as he's not around to have his say. To a lesser extent, the same applies to Jimi's sexy but dangerous girlfriend Devon Wilson.<br />The coverage of the posthumous Hendrix musical catalog is getting outdated (fortunately). Certainly after his death, the managers and record companies flooded the market with inferior material, most of which was either impromptu jam sessions or sub-par live performances which were never meant for release. Until the mid-90's this avalanche of so-called &quot;lost&quot; material blurred the brilliance of the smaller amount of official records that Jimi really tailored for the public. This situation has been mostly resolved since 1994 when the Hendrix family finally gained control of the musical copyrights. They've given us great reissues of the official albums, as well as the incredible &quot;First Rays of the New Rising Sun&quot; which consolidates the album Hendrix was creating at the time of his death. But with things like &quot;South Saturn Delta&quot; and &quot;Live at the Fillmore East&quot; the Hendrix family is almost as guilty of barrel-scraping as the bad guys were in the 70's.f his personality by the people in the book, most of whom didn't like him, should be treated with suspicion, as he's not around to have his say. To a lesser extent, the same applies to Jimi's sexy but dangerous girlfriend Devon Wilson.<br />The coverage of the posthumous Hendrix musical catalog is getting outdated (fortunately). Certainly after his death, the managers and record companies flooded the market with inferior material, most of which was either impromptu jam sessions or sub-par live performances which were never meant for release. Until the mid-90's this avalanche of so-called &quot;lost&quot; material blurred the brilliance of the smaller amount of official records that Jimi really tailored for the public. This situation has been mostly resolved since 1994 when the Hendrix family finally gained control of the musical copyrights. They've given us great reissues of the official albums, as well as the incredible &quot;First Rays of the New Rising Sun&quot; which consolidates the album Hendrix was creating at the time of his death. But with things like &quot;South Saturn Delta&quot; and &quot;Live at the Fillmore East&quot; the Hendrix family is almost as guilty of barrel-scraping as the bad guys were in the 70's.	2001-09-08
1846229:US	52697458	RU55MX35P7OV9	0679758941	861058090	Nonzero: The Logic of Human Destiny	Books	3	24	29	N	N	Interesting, But Be Suspicious	In this book Robert Wright has started with a very promising premise - the contention that game theory can adequately explain both cultural and biological evolution. Especially when persons, cultures, animals, or even genes find ways to cooperate and find a non-zero-sum mutual gain, as opposed to the zero-sum option in which one party wins at the expense of the other. Despite the frequent use of the annoying term &quot;non-zero-sumness&quot; Wright may be on to something here. Also, his underlying contention that all biological and social processes are based on the processing of information is very intruiging (this works in biology due to recent discoveries in the behavior of DNA).<br />Unfortunately, what Wright has done in this book is start with this thesis and then pile on information and evidence that only support his thesis, while ignoring or even disparaging evidence that suggests otherwise. His loose, conversational writing style, while mostly an asset, sometimes descends into sarcasm and arrogance toward different theories. His condemnation of those scientists who support &quot;equilibrium&quot; in sociology and biology is a case in point. In chapters 19 and 20 he spends an obsessive amount of time trying to debunk Stephen Jay Gould, who offers differing theories on evolution. And throughout the entire book, Wright keeps returning to a minor piece of work by the philosopher Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, and shifts irritatingly from either faint praise to scholarly condemnation of this man's obscure work on the evolution of religious behavior. This arrogance towards competing theories looks like professional jealousy to me, rather than anything that could really be enlightening to the reader. These weaknesses, along with Wright's clear belief that he is right about everything, damage his otherwise intriguing theories about biological and cultural evolution, and the direction of the human race's future progress.<br />And like some of the other reviewers here on Amazon, I would instead recommend Jared Diamond's &quot;Guns, Germs, &amp; Steel&quot; as a better example of this type of theory.Amazon, I would instead recommend Jared Diamond's &quot;Guns, Germs, &amp; Steel&quot; as a better example of this type of theory.	2001-09-08
1857204:US	52697458	R34CZXHAXBKDRX	0375703861	363806782	White Teeth: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Intriguing Look at Great New Novelist	In this book Zadie Smith has shown that she has an extensive and intimate understanding of the various cultures of London, and their histories and religions. The interactions of the multicultural characters and their relationships are very illuminating, and lead to many entertaining misunderstandings and moments of clarity. I wouldn't be surprised if Smith used her own experiences with multicultural friends and family as a basis for most of the characters and plot elements in this book, because most of them give the appearance of authenticity. I also wonder if Smith based the Irie Jones character on herself, as Irie is the most complex and deep-thinking person in the book. Smith's writing style is usually light and effortless, and occasionally sharply funny. Here we have a very ambitious new novelist with huge ideas. Unfortunately, Smith proves in this book that she's a little too ambitious for her own good. In the second half, the plotline becomes very messy and starts to unravel, and Smith lapses into a lot of long-winded sermonizing, both from the narrator and the characters. A never-ending treatise on social consciousness toward the end then rushes into a conclusion that is wrapped up too quickly. However, I would still recommend this book, especially if you're interested in hot new writers. Now if Zadie Smith can learn to reign in her big ideas and find a little more focus - then I can't wait to see what she comes up with next.	2001-08-30
1862781:US	52697458	R2I8RWSNLLH6P9	0345350804	109454413	The Best of H. P. Lovecraft: Bloodcurdling Tales of Horror and the Macabre	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Best Lovecraft Collection Available	This book is the best in the series of short story collections issued by DelRey books, and probably contains the best collection of classic HPL stories available today. Here you have the best and most revered stories from Lovecraft's prime period of creativity. You can clearly see how influential this work has been for all horror fiction that has been written since. Clive Barker and Stephen King are definitely fans, and even movies like &quot;Poltergeist&quot; and &quot;Ghostbusters&quot; are clearly inspired by Lovecraft. As usual with Lovecraft stories, it is often difficult to get through the heavy prose and obscure references, and reading the tales will take a lot of patience. But your patience will be rewarded by many classic short stories that will really get under your skin. Highlights of this book include &quot;The Rats in the Walls&quot; which really reminded me of the Poltergeist movie; the all-time occult masterpiece &quot;The Call of Cthulhu&quot;; the intriguiging &quot;The Music of Erich Zann&quot; which is surprisingly artistic and offbeat for Lovecraft; and &quot;The Shadow Over Innsmouth&quot; which covers not just the evil of supernatural creatures but also of small-town humans - a motif that is seen in many Stephen King stories.	2001-08-25
1863188:US	52697458	R2L1UYO1UZHCI	0393321673	275964807	The Search for the Panchen Lama	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Outstanding, and Much More Than the Title Suggests	This outstanding book covers not just the search for the Panchen Lama - currently the biggest struggle in Tibet/China relations, but offers an extensive history of Tibetan Buddhism's struggle with the Chinese communists. Isabel Hilton has become a trusted correspondent of the Dalai Lama, and has gained his confidence in accurately reporting his conflicts with China. Thus Hilton not only gets many interviews with the big guy himself, but also extensive access to the intricate world of Tibetan Buddhism.<br />The search to find the current Panchen Lama, the reincarnation of the previous Panchen Lama who died in 1989, is not covered in detail until you are two-thirds through the book. In the meantime, Hilton interrupts descriptions of her travels through Tibet, China, and India (which serve as an enjoyable travelogue in themselves) with extensive forays into the history of the numerous Dalai and Panchen Lamas, as well as Tibetan Buddhism itself and the Chinese invasion and continuing suppression of the religion. The late Panchen Lama is covered in great detail, and his lifetime of persecution by the Chinese government occupies much of the book.<br />Hilton delivers many keen revelations about the current situation. She debunks the view of our American celebrity Buddhists that Tibet is a shangri-la in which everyone deeply meditates in pure devotion, and a serene life of deep thought is enjoyed by all. We learn instead that they have their factionalism and infighting like everyone else. We also learn that the Dalai Lama does not have the universal devotion of all Tibetan Buddhists (there are some dissidents), and that he may be losing his spiritual grip on his people, from his continuing exile in India.<br />The heartbreaking conclusion of the book reveals the cruel fate of the little boy who was found by the Dalai Lama to be the reincarnated Panchen Lama. He was taken into custody by the Chinese and hasn't been seen since. The Chinese have spent the past fifty years suppressing all religious activity, but now are trying to convince the world that they are better able to perform a profoundly religious ritual, the search for the Panchen's reincarnation, than the spiritual leader himself (the Dalai Lama). The actions of the Chinese have lead to scorn and derision from the rest of the world, as they have imprisoned one small boy indefinitely and installed another boy as the spiritual leader of a religion that doesn't accept him, and condemned him to life as a puppet. Yes, the Chinese government has egg on its face, but that doesn't alleviate the sad fate in store for those two young boys.suppressing all religious activity, but now are trying to convince the world that they are better able to perform a profoundly religious ritual, the search for the Panchen's reincarnation, than the spiritual leader himself (the Dalai Lama). The actions of the Chinese have lead to scorn and derision from the rest of the world, as they have imprisoned one small boy indefinitely and installed another boy as the spiritual leader of a religion that doesn't accept him, and condemned him to life as a puppet. Yes, the Chinese government has egg on its face, but that doesn't alleviate the sad fate in store for those two young boys.	2001-08-25
1863357:US	52697458	R3MY1L02A16DNZ	0345384229	377076852	The Road to Madness	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Fascinating Tales for Collectors and Other Freaks!	This collection of stories by H.P. Lovecraft apparently was put together for hardcore collectors, but it does have many treasures for those who are just beginning to discover his work. The book begins with several &quot;Early Tales&quot; from Lovecraft's formative period. Some go as far back as his teenage years. In these early stories Lovecraft was still nailing down the style that would later become so influential. Unfortunately some of these tales aren't very good, especially the very predictable &quot;The Beast in the Cave,&quot; and the others are high on stiff prose and low on ideas. So this early stuff is a real treasure for collectors but may be a struggle for everyone else. However, once you get over that hurdle, this book starts to pick up steam with a steady supply of fascinating and freaky tales of horror and the supernatural. As the title indicates, most of these short stories contain people going mad, and you may be wondering about your own sanity at the end. Highlights include the Frankenstein-style tales &quot;Herbert West-Reanimator&quot; and &quot;Cool Air.&quot; My favorites appear toward the end of the book, with the sci-fi style &quot;In the Walls of Eryx,&quot; in which Lovecraft shows a surprising flair for conceptual science fiction. The mini-novel &quot;At the Mountains of Madness&quot; may be Lovecraft's all-time best - a masterpiece of occult history that leaves you with a very spooky feeling afterwards. For those who are just discovering Lovecraft: while you're reading the stories, sometimes you'll find yourself struggling through his dense, slow-moving prose (which hardly ever contains dialogue), and his obscure references to the occult. But once you put the book down, and the stories work their way to the back of your mind, you'll start feeling creeped out. VERY creeped out.	2001-08-25
1863363:US	52697458	R1GEQKD0PTDTUN	0380800918	444756650	Almost America: From the Colonists to Clinton: a "What If" History of the U.S.	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Un-Challenging and Un-Creative	This book is almost too easy, and the author has put in very little effort in his quest to offer thought-provoking scenarios of alternative history. He is a competent historian, and offers well-researched treatises on historical events and how they really happened. Unfortunately, the second half of each chapter, in which he attempts to get creative and speculate on what could have been, are where Steve Tally shows real weaknesses as a writer. Most of his &quot;what-if&quot; scenarios are not very creative at all, and fail to challenge your perceptions of the forces of history, which happens to be what he's trying to achieve. Notable exceptions are the chapter speculating on what would have happened to Bill Gates if the hadn't made an early business deal with IBM, and what would have become of Dan Quayle if Bush had dropped him from the presidential ticket.	2001-08-25
1870677:US	52697458	R3VP5JYYMV41BC	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Deserves to be a Classic	I believe it was Mark Twain who said &quot;A classic is a book that everybody talks about, but nobody reads.&quot; And while I mostly stick with newer material, occasionally I like to acquaint myself with a &quot;classic&quot; to see what all the fuss is about. This book is certainly a masterpiece and deserves to be called a &quot;classic&quot; in every sense of the word.<br />Harper Lee's method of describing predjudice and injustice in a small southern town, through the eyes of a little girl, is a highly effective and moving technique. The fact that Scout, her brother Jem, and their friend Dill can see through the hypocrisy of the adults around them, and the social system in which they live, is very telling and holds a true lesson for us all. These kids can clearly see that an innocent black man is being railroaded for a crime he didn't commit, and are appalled and heartbroken by the system that convicts him anyway.<br />I understand that this book has often been banned for not being &quot;politically correct&quot; in the modern world. Yes, it does contain the N-word and other epithets, even from the mouths of the well-meaning lead characters (who are simply a product of their society anyway). Since I'm not a member of an oppressed group, I can't tell people they shouldn't be offended by these terms. But what we have here is an accurate potrayal of life in a small southern town in 1935, and that's just the way things were back then. Even if the past was painful and ignorant, by covering it up you're trying to pretend it never happened, and that's no way to deal with it. Also, those who don't know history are doomed to repeat it. The theme of &quot;To Kill a Mockingbird&quot; is not that this kind of behavior is right, but that it's wrong. And that's why we should be reading this book.	2001-08-20
1874969:US	52697458	R2FAYFFM9ZQSQD	1567312918	223158134	Secret Societies	Books	3	27	27	N	N	Intriguing, but Pretty Thin	This book functions more as a (very) condensed encyclopedia than any sort of treatise into the phenomenon of secret societies in general. Thus the title is misleading because the book fails to reach any global conclusions about why people join secret societies, why they've appeared throughout history and in all parts of the world, and how they continue to remain active for centuries. Unfortunately this is apparently what Arkon Daraul is trying to achieve.<br />Instead what we have here is a list of a few secret societies that have been selected by the author, and each is described (often briefly) in its own chapter, in encyclopedic form. So we get useful introductions to a number of groups, including some I wasn't familiar with, like the bizarre Castrators of Russia or the Tongs of China. Daraul also provides interesting treatments of groups that I thought were religions, like Sufism and Mithraism, and paints them as secret societies instead. In fact, he does this with several groups that most people would think were religious orders. The problem is that the write-up of each group serves as a thin introduction only (although it does look like Daraul has done his homework on initiation rituals). After the intro and a small amount of historical background, there are no deeper insights into each group, or into secret societies in general. So while this book is a very intriguing read, it's kind of a tease because it leaves you wanting (much) more information. I suggest that this book be used as a starting off point to introduce yourself to these weird societies. If any of them spark your interest, dig up more specific information elsewhere.	2001-08-16
1885607:US	52697458	RWCOD7SHB2AT6	1583220232	348730354	Censored 2000: The Year's Top 25 Censored Stories	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Brain Food to Fight the Pablum of the Evening News	I've read several of these annual Project Censored books, and each time I have become more and more disillusioned with the weaknesses of the mainstream news media. The ever-growing corporate control of the network/cable news and newspapers has encouraged several reviewers of this book to cite conspiracy theories and yell out cheesy, predictable slogans like &quot;take the power back!&quot; and assume it's the end of the world. I won't go that far, but the fact that a shrinking number of corporations control a large percentage of the mainstream media, as amply illustrated in this book, is indeed a disturbing trend. I now believe very little of what I see on the TV news, without taking it with a very large grain of salt. The fact that many of the top 25 &quot;censored&quot; stories in this book are based on coverups of corporate lawbreaking or unethical behavior is very telling. The mainstream news has become a vehicle for corporate profits, and any journalistic scoops that could possibly threaten these profits are impossible to find on the TV news.<br />Some good features of this book are the intros by Walter Cronkite and Mumia Abu-Jamal, and the use of one of my favorite comic strips, &quot;This Modern World&quot; by Tom Tomorrow. Some of the essays by various media watchdogs and analysts are fascinating as well. But this book does have some drawbacks though, including a repetitive condemnation of the mainstream news organizations (you can say it a few times, but a million times is tedious), and there's an annoyingly long write-up of a corporate-backed police crackdown on an independent radio station in Pacifica, California. The Project Censored series overall would benefit from some more focus and less proselytizing. But it's not too hard to avoid those weaknesses and focus on the censored stories, which are mostly worth worrying about. And it's not just a leftist rant, either.	2001-08-08
1886199:US	52697458	RC77O4NU8TV9B	0805056688	260745463	Hungry Ghosts: Mao's Secret Famine (Holt Paperback)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Disturbing and Revealing	In this book Jasper Becker has done an impressive and exhaustive job on digging up information and interviews, out of a society that has pulled out all the stops to repress all knowledge of China's enormous famine of the early 60's. Chairman Mao, who has been idolized and emulated by many third world countries and disdvantaged peoples as a visionary, is instead revealed in this book as a stubborn, cruel, and apathetic dictator. Mao's so-called &quot;Great Leap Forward&quot; quickly became a failure in its efforts to forcibly collectivize agriculture and increase production. Mao refused to believe that his great plan was causing the starvation of huge numbers of peasants, and suppressed and threatened anyone who tried to reveal the truth. The fact that communist officials down to the local level had been threatened to keep their mouths shut, and that Mao refused to admit failure, proves that these dictators would rather watch tens of millions of people die than admit that their bold plan was a dismal failure. So instead of looking like a laughing stock on the world stage, they allowed these people to die and then used an iron fist to cover up all information about the famine. Ironically, this is from a regime supposedly dedicated to the &quot;people&quot; and it was an eerie repeat of a similar famine inflicted on the Ukraine by Stalin 30 years earlier.<br />Becker has done a good job of unearthing this long-suppressed information, and adequately debunks past writers and politicians who were misled and duped by the communist propaganda machine. While Becker's statistical approach makes this book repetitive in places (especially the section giving the famine's development and death tolls from various Chinese provinces), overall the book is an impressive piece of scholarship. Also, the new postscript about the recent famine in North Korea, which has resulted from almost the same political failures, offers disturbing proof that those who don't know history are doomed to repeat it.repeat it.	2001-08-08
1888936:US	52697458	R338EDT4FVMHWQ	0553580221	284106836	False Memory	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Not One of Koontz's Best	Since Dean Koontz satisfies the public's craving for his work by releasing one or two new novels every single year, he's entitled to a below-average clunker once in a while. And this is one of them. I'm a big fan and thought this would turn out to be a classic, because the premise is intriguing. Unfortunately the book doesn't quite deliver.<br />&quot;False Memory&quot; can't justify its huge length - 751 pages in paperback, which mostly consists of excessive detail about the characters' interior decorating tastes and what they're eating. And few of its characters are believable. This is especially true of Dusty's family of snobbish intellectuals, whose condescension towards the working class is so ornery that it becomes impossible to believe. Even worse is the character of Dr. Mark Ahriman. Early in the book I thought this guy was so evil and loathsome that he truly gave me the creeps, the way a character in a good horror novel should. Unfortunately, his evil ways become so ridiculous through the course of the book that he ceases to be a believable character. In the story we learn that Ahriman has been carrying out an intricate plan to destroy the lives of a select group of people, by subtly hypnotizing several of their friends and loved ones, and slowly altering their personalities. This process has taken him years, leading up to his final victory. Now what is his motive for this intricate plan? By the time we learn his motive towards the end of the book, it is extremely disappointing, and leads to one of the worst conclusions of any Koontz novel. There's no way you could believe that a man could be that evil in pursuit of such a lame goal. Meanwhile the &quot;organization&quot; that Ahriman belongs to seems like an afterthought and makes no real contribution to the plotline.<br />And have you noticed that almost every Koontz book has a heroic golden retriever? This time it's Dusty and Martie's dog, who as usual is patient, loving, understanding, and has tons of personality. Koontz surely loves this noble breed of dog, and that's nice, but his worship of them is getting ridiculous. At one point in this book, Dusty even calls his dog &quot;fluffy butt&quot;. Now what kind of a grown man would say that?ersonality. Koontz surely loves this noble breed of dog, and that's nice, but his worship of them is getting ridiculous. At one point in this book, Dusty even calls his dog &quot;fluffy butt&quot;. Now what kind of a grown man would say that?	2001-08-06
1889881:US	52697458	RVICHEA04MYZ3	0446604666	198501177	Sick Puppy	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Great Characters and a Hysterical Story	This is a truly hilarious book, and Carl Hiassen has done a great job of creating interesting characters. This includes Twilly Spree, a small-time slacker who came into some money and now fancies himself an eco-terrorist; the slimy lobbyist Palmer Stoat who enjoys &quot;hunting&quot; sick and injured members of endangered species; the trendy hitman Mr. Gash who can only get aroused by hanging from a snakeskin harness and listening to 911 tapes; and Boodle, the dimwitted but loveable and heroic title dog. The only problem with the plot is when the current governor recruits  former governor &quot;Skink&quot; Tyree to track down Twilly. Now this doesn't make any sense, as Skink is a hermit who lives in a swamp, and is the least likely &quot;private eye&quot; possible. The current governor would have many other options to find and rough up a troublemaker like Twilly. Skink is a refugee from earlier Hiassen books and was clearly added here so Hiassen could make use of this interesting character in some way. But his presence makes little sense to the story. Otherwise, these colorful characters keep the plotline interesting and the conclusion is truly hysterical.	2001-08-06
1895216:US	52697458	R3IYEB2UM9FPIW	0789302691	450766706	Pearl Jam: Place/Date	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Perfect for Hardcore Fans	Pearl Jam has made a career of hiding from the press and keeping a deliberately low profile. But they are known for giving goodies to their hardcore fans. I would have thought that PJ never allowed anyone to take pictures of them, but apparently Mercer and Peterson have had free range to take any pictures they wanted with the band on tour. There are only a few &quot;publicity&quot; shots where the band is clearly posing for the camera. The majority are onstage action shots and candid moments which provide a lot of insight into the band's personalities. There are also many great shots of the fans. Each of the four core members seems to be showcased equally, with some shots of their various temporary drummers. The funnest aspect of the book is watching the guys' image change over time - from overdressed, long-haired alt-rockers in the early days to their current scruffy low-maintenance &quot;regular guy&quot; look.	2001-08-01
1895426:US	52697458	R1FWCIFEF1QH6N	0910311641	396703050	New World Order: The Ancient Plan of Secret Societies	Books	1	98	162	N	N	Worst &quot;Investigation&quot; Possible	This book is garbage, plain and simple. William Still takes the unusual tactic of investigating secret society activity through a fundamental Christian perspective. This could have led to interesting results, but this book comes nowhere close. I am not trying to criticize Still's beliefs, but he clearly comes from the religious tradition that believes that any sort of behavior that does not agree with his theology 100% is &quot;satanist&quot;. In fact he condemns his subject matter as &quot;satanist&quot; or &quot;satanism&quot; so many times that the judgement loses its force very quickly. Still also comes from the branch of Christianity that feels that all persons or ideas that do not comply with those fundamental beliefs to the letter are part of a vast conspiracy seeking to crush Christian beliefs. Once again, Still's personal beliefs are his right, but he has such a clear contempt for his subject matter that he is completely unable to investigate it in any useful fashion. Just when he is on the verge of unveiling useful information about the actions of secret societies, each time he collapses into tired religious dogma.<br />This book is not the &quot;investigative&quot; journalism that Still tries to tell you it is. I'll give him a little credit for trying, but he fails. He is completely unable to see around his personal hatred and contempt for his subject....	2001-08-01
1896828:US	52697458	R2DCQAZXCB65VJ	0688178057	284789064	Culture Jam: How to Reverse America's Suicidal Consumer Binge--And Why We Must	Books	2	53	64	N	N	No &quot;Revolution&quot; Here.	I had bigger expectations for this book. I am familar with Kalle Lasn's Adbusters organization and agree with what they stand for. However, Lasn's attempts to start a revolution and change the world in this book are a laughable failure. Granted, he does have some good stuff early in the book about the pernicious effects on society caused by corporate propaganda and saturation marketing. Especially good are his descriptions on how this has caused low self-esteem in girls, aggression in teenagers, and the unhealthy sedentary lifestyle of modern Americans. I also enjoyed his section on dealing with telemarketers.<br />However, the book fails when Lasn tries to come up with ways to change the situation. First his inflammatory writing style with his use of adjectives like &quot;chicken-ass&quot;, &quot;lamebrained&quot;, and other attention-grabbers makes him guilty of some of the mass media behavior he's criticizing. Meanwhile, he fails to deliver any concrete ideas for changing the current situation, and can only give vague sloganeering like &quot;take back our lives&quot;, &quot;change the world&quot;, &quot;rise up&quot; and other vague polemics that sound like the ravings of a teenager who's mad that his parents won't let him go out on Saturday.<br />Worst yet is Lasn's use of a group called the Situationists as an inspiration for his hoped-for revolution. This group's only claim to fame was a few small riots in Paris in 1968. Their leader was trying to change society so there would be true intellectual freedom, and an economy where nobody would have to work and would spend their time discussing philosophical ideas. This man seemed to think he was already living in that world and refused to work, and begged off others instead. You can't live in your desired world until you have created it. The Situationists caused a little fuss then disappeared, though Lasn portrays them as a major revolutionary movement with society-shattering ideas. They weren't revolutionary, and neither is this book.<br />If you're interested in the effects that corporate propaganda has on our society and culture, and would like to learn about ways to possibly make a change, then I still recommend the work of Lasn's Adbusters organization. Go to their website and check it out, but read this book at your own peril.d neither is this book.<br />If you're interested in the effects that corporate propaganda has on our society and culture, and would like to learn about ways to possibly make a change, then I still recommend the work of Lasn's Adbusters organization. Go to their website and check it out, but read this book at your own peril.	2001-07-31
1897414:US	52697458	RKY0Y6V6GFVPO	0140276424	992908259	Five Against One: The Pearl Jam Story	Books	3	94	99	N	N	Flawed and Biased Coverage	I was a huge PJ fan in their early years, stuck with them in the &quot;middle&quot; years, and became a huge fan again recently when they released the 72 live bootlegs (I have 'em all and am still trying to listen to all of them). With this new interest I decided to read this book. I loved learning more about the history of the band, but the way the author constructed the book is flawed and biased. First of all, the only band member to make significant contributions is former drummer Dave Abbruzzese, who's a cool guy but he got fired from the band back in 1994. Some very old interviews with Stone, Mike, Jeff, and Eddie are used as background, but clearly the author did not consult them extensively, or else they chose not to participate (more likely). Thus you get extensive coverage of Abbruzzese but nothing about key group members Jeff, Stone, and Mike except some very vague personality descriptions and second hand opinions from other people.<br />Then there's the coverage of Eddie Vedder, who clearly did not make any direct contributions to the book. Kim Neely's only direct contact with him were some early interviews she did for Rolling Stone. Neely's attitude toward Vedder is difficult to comprehend and is a major flaw in the book. Early in the book, despite calling Vedder a &quot;shrimp&quot; at one point, Neely seems to like him and thinks he's a great guy. But as the book progresses, Neely increasingly tries to belittle Vedder and is determined to cut his public image down to size. This is especially true in the section on Eddie's upbringing, in which his painful family life is described. About the only source used for this section is Eddie's stepfather Peter, whom Eddie has often vilified in the press. I feel that Peter is a good guy and that Eddie has been unfair to him. But then again, Neely is attempting to research the past to create a true psychological thesis on Eddie's personality and emotions, and it is downright irresponsible to try to do this without talking to the person you're writing about. So Neely has failed to illuminate Eddie's lyrics and public persona with this so-called psychological research, and only comes across as a muckraker with some sort of score to settle. I wonder what Eddie did to Neely in real life, besides ignoring her. Plus, why not get into the backgrounds of the other guys this extensively? Aren't they interesting enough?<br />Another big flaw is the problem that sinks many biographies and history books - ignoring recent history and glorifying the good old days. The period of the band's formation, and up to around 1993, is covered in ridiculous detail, while everything since then is glossed over so quickly that you'd think nothing interesting happened. The best evidence of this is Neely's descriptions of each PJ album. Every single song on &quot;Ten&quot; is described in detail, including the sound, the lyrics, and the songwriting process. Most songs on &quot;Vs&quot; are described, and a few on &quot;Vitalogy&quot; are detailed while the rest are sped through in a few vague sentences. And then the albums &quot;No Code&quot; and &quot;Yield&quot; (the most recent at the time of the book) are given just one paragraph each with very brief descriptions of just a few selected songs.<br />The story is mostly entertaining, but it is hard to take the writer and the structure of the book seriously. And if you're interested in the band's recent history in any way, you're gonna have to go elsewhere.talking to the person you're writing about. So Neely has failed to illuminate Eddie's lyrics and public persona with this so-called psychological research, and only comes across as a muckraker with some sort of score to settle. I wonder what Eddie did to Neely in real life, besides ignoring her. Plus, why not get into the backgrounds of the other guys this extensively? Aren't they interesting enough?<br />Another big flaw is the problem that sinks many biographies and history books - ignoring recent history and glorifying the good old days. The period of the band's formation, and up to around 1993, is covered in ridiculous detail, while everything since then is glossed over so quickly that you'd think nothing interesting happened. The best evidence of this is Neely's descriptions of each PJ album. Every single song on &quot;Ten&quot; is described in detail, including the sound, the lyrics, and the songwriting process. Most songs on &quot;Vs&quot; are described, and a few on &quot;Vitalogy&quot; are detailed while the rest are sped through in a few vague sentences. And then the albums &quot;No Code&quot; and &quot;Yield&quot; (the most recent at the time of the book) are given just one paragraph each with very brief descriptions of just a few selected songs.<br />The story is mostly entertaining, but it is hard to take the writer and the structure of the book seriously. And if you're interested in the band's recent history in any way, you're gonna have to go elsewhere.	2001-07-31
1897581:US	52697458	R7LMWNYZ7ZCG4	0060392886	8442482	The Dirt: Confessions of the World's Most Notorious Rock Band	Books	4	159	170	N	N	Lewd, Crude, Rude, and -(what?)- Sensitive!	This autobiography strongly resembles the Aerosmith book &quot;Walk This Way&quot; from a few years ago. You start out with the band's early days of non-stop partying, drugs, and chicks, and it's like the fun never stops. Then the story gets darker as the drugs take their toll and everyone loses their friends, money, and careers (at least temporarily). This pattern is clearly evident in the Motley Crue book, and to an even more extreme level than Aerosmith. The debauchery of the early years is truly excessive and explosive. If you love to act that way yourself, or do it vicariously by reading about the exploits of others, then you'll love those portions of this book. The only drawback is lurid descriptions of degrading things being done to women.<br />When the darkness sets in, I was surprised by the senstive and emotional writing of the guys in the band. Mick Mars (an extremly funny guy) discusses his painful bone disease that will probably lead to his early demise, Nikki Sixx (who's more intelligent than I imagined) talks about his traumatic childhood and family life, and Tommy Lee (a real sweetheart) includes his letters to Pamela from prison and shows a deep love for his sons. The most moving part of the book is when Vince Neil (who I don't think is a very cool person otherwise) discusses the death of his four-year old daughter from cancer, and how it changed his entire outlook on life.<br />This book also avoids the pitfalls of many biographies (and history books) by covering all time periods equally, instead of ignoring recent history at the expense of the glorified good old days. There's good coverage of the band's years with temporary singer John Corabi, and their recent not-so-glamorous struggles with the changing musical landscape. The only problem in this regard is the lack of dates and specific historical information, if you're the type that wants to know exactly when things happened. Otherwise, this was an extremely entertaining book, covering the expected rock star excesses with a surprising amount of realism and sensitivity. Good for both Crue fans and general rock fans alike.ted rock star excesses with a surprising amount of realism and sensitivity. Good for both Crue fans and general rock fans alike.	2001-07-31
