1080264:US	52793250	R3HZ4ZEEZS4NOQ	0805062831	69926608	Arnie, the Doughnut (The Adventures of Arnie the Doughnut)	Books	3	13	20	N	N	Wild, Wacky, and Sometimes Witty.....	&quot;Arnie turned out to be just the kind of doughnut he hoped he'd be - chocolate-covered with bright-colored candy sprinkles.  He was made very early in the morning at the Downtown Bakery- &quot;Home of the Best Doughnuts A-'Round'!&quot;  Arnie was proud to be one of the best.  He knew that people all over town made special trips to his bakery to buy doughnuts of their very own...&quot;  So Arnie was especially proud when Mr Bing came into the shop and picked him.  He was happy to go home with Mr Bing in a little bag on a soft napkin.  Even happier to be placed on a &quot;handsome plate.&quot;  But when Mr Bing picked him up, and Arnie realized that he was about to be eaten.....  The first half of Laurie Keller's manic romp is original...wild, wacky, and delightful, and filled with clever puns and engaging wordplay.  Unfortunately, the second half of the story is a letdown, and feels forced.  Ms Keller's tale becomes a bit too over-the-top and ridiculous, as pastry becomes pet, a doughnut-dog, doing tricks, protecting the house, and becoming man's best friend.  The real strength of this picture book is the bold, bright, and busy illustrations, and each entertaining and exuberant spread will charm young and old alike with witty asides, dazzling color, and marvelous eye-catching details.  Perfect for kids 4-8, Arnie The Doughnut is a bit of a disappointment, but worth a read just for the artwork.  For really winning Laurie Keller selections, try The Scrambled States Of America and Open Wide: Tooth School Inside.	2003-06-21
1081973:US	52793250	RXW3X0XOISXC2	0670892823	342695886	Raise the Roof	Books	5	13	13	N	N	House Goes Up.....	&quot;Make a plan.  Count the feet.  Clear the land on this street...&quot;  It's time to raise the roof and build that dream house.  From the planning, pouring concrete, sawing and hammering wood, laying pipes and wiring, to drywalling, hanging windows and doors, painting, carpeting and tiling, Anastasia Suen details all the things that need to be done before a house is ready to be lived in.  Her rhyming text, written in short, simple sentences is perfect for the youngest &quot;construction workers&quot; always ready to build with pretend tools and hard hats.  But it's Elwood Smith's bold, bright, and clever cartoon-like illustrations that really make this picture book a stand out.  Each two page spread is rich in vivid color, engaging humor, and wonderful eye-catching details.  &quot;Plant the garden.  Water the grass.  The house is ready.  We're done at last!&quot;  Raise The Roof is definitely a preschool crowd pleaser.	2003-06-19
1082308:US	52793250	R28DYYX24VS906	0823416879	426192174	Punctuation Takes a Vacation	Books	5	107	112	N	N	Rip Roarin' Grammar Romp.....	&quot;Day after day, the punctuation marks showed up in Mr. Wright's classroom.  Day after day, they did their jobs.  They put up with being erased and replaced and corrected and ignored and moved around.  Then on the hottest, stickiest day the class had ever seen, right in the middle of a lesson about commas, Mr Wright mopped his forehead and said, &quot;Let's give punctuation a vacation...&quot;  Those cruel kids cheered and ran out to the playground.  The punctuation marks looked at each other in disbelief and grew angry, very angry.  If the kids could take a break, well they could too.  And with that, they rushed out the door and left school on a little vacation of their own.  When Mr. Wright's class returned, they discovered a big problem.  They couldn't read or write or learn.  In fact, nothing made any sense at all without punctuation.  A few days later, some rather unusual postcards began to arrive from Take-a-Break Lake.....  Author, Robin Pulver's zany and engaging story is a lesson in disguise, filled with droll humor, clever wordplay, silly sound effects, and lively punctuation fun.  Lynn Rowe Reed's bold, bright, and busy childlike illustrations are playful and entertaining.  Together, word and art offer a delightful, manic romp that's perfect for story time, or as a help reinforcing grammar lessons.  With a straightforward list of rules at the end to complete this manic, fun-filled treasure, Punctuation Takes A Vacation is a delightful crowd pleaser, and kids 6-10 may find that punctuation lessons will never be boring again.	2003-06-19
1084525:US	52793250	R273AUNTVUCC36	0786803606	38212934	Muldoon	Books	4	11	12	N	N	It's a Dog's Life.....	Meet Muldoon, a perky brown dog who &quot;works&quot; for the West family.  And as he tells us, from sunrise to sunset, a dog's work is never done.  From getting the family up in the morning, to walking the kids to school, (&quot;Muldoon puts the children on a leash so they don't run away.&quot;) to sorting through the trash to make sure nothing important has been thrown out by mistake, and &quot;washing&quot; the dishes at the dinner table, he keeps his family in line and on schedule.  Each day is so busy.  There is &quot;yard work&quot; to do, holes to be dug and plants to be moved.  There are enemies to chase away, and playtime at the park with his children.  &quot;Muldoon can't believe how many times the children lose their ball.  He has to find it for them over and over again.&quot;  Even when he's asleep he's on the job listening for trouble.  &quot;He knows Mr. and Mrs. West rely on him to guard their kennel.&quot;  Pamela Duncan Edwards playful, tongue-in-cheek story is told from the family dog's point of view, and though little ones won't get all the subtle jokes in the text, they'll revel in Henry Cole's engaging and lively artwork.  Each entertaining illustration is filled with cheerful, bright colors, wonderful facial expressions, delightful humor, and witty, eye catching detail.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Muldoon is an endearing picture book no dog lover will want to miss.	2003-06-17
1090979:US	52793250	R5P9BY1AVFB9C	0345438825	898191940	Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Good Books, Great Friends, and Life.....	Meet the women of Freesia Court, the angry housewives eating bons bons.  There's Audrey, the sexpot, always showing too much cleavage and leg;  Merit, the shy, insecure beauty married to a monster;  Faith, who spends every day in fear that her hidden past will be exposed;  Slip, the self-assured, political firebrand;  and Kari, a women widowed too young with a secret of her own.  Join these ladies as they take turns hosting each book club meeting, and travel the often rocky road of life, through marriage and divorce, kids and grandkids, triumphs and disappointments, and all the ups and downs that make life such a grand adventure.  And through it all they realize that sharing the love and support of good friends make it all the more worthwhile.....  Lorna Lankvik's well paced masterpiece is both poignant and uplifting as it follows the lives of these five women from the late sixties, rocky seventies, the drama of the eighties, and into the nineties.  Her entertaining prose is crisp and engaging, filled with witty dialogue, and vivid, laugh-out-loud scenes.  But it's her brilliant characterizations that really make this novel dazzle, and Ms Landvik brings each book club member, as well as even the most minor player, boldly to life on the page.  Angry Housewives Eating Bons Bons is a sensitive, heartwarming story told with great truth, insight, wisdom, humor, and love, that celebrates the warm and deep friendships that keep us all going through the good times and bad.  As Faith tells the reader in the opening prologue:  &quot;A few years back, when I finally got smart enough to go to a therapist, she asked me how I had held things together all these years.  I didn't take long to come up with an answer.  &quot;That's easy.  I belong to a book club.&quot;  Laugh, cry, enjoy!	2003-06-12
1097680:US	52793250	R3MS28MJP45MSH	0807533939	157994326	The House in the Meadow	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Over in the Meadow.....	&quot;Over in the meadow, it was springtime when.../came a bride and a groom and their best friends 10./&quot;And now...&quot; said the couple.  &quot;A house!&quot; said the 10./So they planned through the year, and when spring came again...&quot;  Inspired by Olive Wadsworth's classic poem Over In The Meadow, author Shutta Crum's creative and fun-filled picture book combines learning numbers and house building.  Soon the countdown begins as first 9 construction workers, then 8 masons, and 7 carpenters show up with tools and heavy equipment to begin the job.  Then 6 well drillers, 5 roofers, 4 plumbers, 3 electricians, and 2 painters complete the house.  Last but not least Inspector Number 1 arrives.  &quot;So he looked and he listed.  Everything was done!&quot;  Ms Crum's exuberant rhythmic, rhyming text is engaging, and complemented by Paige Billin-Frye's bold, bright, and playful collage artwork.  A perfect selection for circle or story time, The House In The Meadow is a charming, clever sing-along, and preschoolers will revel in all the counting and building fun.  &quot;Over in the meadow, by the house, in the sun,/waved the wife and the husband and their new little one./&quot;Home!&quot; said the couple.  &quot;You're home,&quot;said everyone./Then they lived in the meadow,/in their house that was done!&quot;	2003-06-06
1100001:US	52793250	R2E2OILBL5RP9A	0374356386	677857673	One-Dog Canoe	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One Wild Ride.....	&quot;I set off one morning in my little red canoe.  My dog wagged his tail.  &quot;Can I come, too?&quot;  &quot;You bet,&quot; I said.  &quot;A trip for two-just me and you...&quot;  Down the river paddles our young narrator and furry friend.  Soon they come upon Beaver building his dam.  He stops chewing just long enough to ask if he can join the trip.  &quot;There's not much room.  It's a one-dog canoe.&quot;  But that doesn't deter Beaver, and he jumps right in.  And as the trip continues down the river, so do Loon, Wolf, Bear, and Moose.  But when Frog insists on joining the fun and hopping in...  Author, Mary Casanova's playful and engaging text is filled with rhyme, rhythm, energy and marvelous onomatopoeic sound effects that begs to be read aloud.  Illustrator, Ard Hoyt's captivating pencil and watercolor artwork tickles the funny bone with endearing characters, hilarious facial expressions, and clever, eye-catching details.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, One-Dog Canoe is an entertaining, chain-of-events treasure.  So grab a paddle and hop aboard.  It's time for a fun-filled ride.	2003-06-04
1102754:US	52793250	R2VDCVW91NJPM7	0316154601	239093791	Lost Light	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Tight, Tense, and Compelling.....	It was her hands he would never forget...  The unexpected call from Lawton Cross brought it all back to him.  Standing at the crime scene, detective Harry Bosch remembered how Angela Benton's hands seemed to be reaching toward him, begging him to solve her murder.  He worked the case for only four days before the company she had worked for, Eidolon Productions, was involved in a major robbery.  Eidolon was in the process of shooting an action flick about a mob heist and had contracted with BankLA to borrow two million dollars in real bills to use as a prop.  The hold-up occurred as the armored truck arrived on the set to deliver the money.  Two million, gone without a trace.  The case was immediately reassigned to Cross and his partner Jack Dorsey over at the elite, Robbery-Homicide squad since as a production assistant on the movie set, Angela had intimate knowledge of all aspects of the money delivery.  Cross and Dorsey worked the robbery/murder until they were unlucky enough to be gunned down while eating lunch during a barroom robbery.  Dorsey never knew what hit him and died at the scene.  Cross wasn't as fortunate.  He was left a quadriplegic, living a life filled with indignities, pain, and misery.  But now four years later, he's beginning to remember things about their unfinished investigation, and he wants Harry to start over and rework the case.  And Harry's intrigued.  Now retired for eight months, after twenty-eight years on the force, he's bored and lonely, looking for direction and happy for the opportunity to reopen a cold case that has always haunted him.  And he soon finds that their are forces much larger and more dangerous than the brooding, uncorruptable Harry Bosch at work here who want this mystery to stay buried and unsolved forever.....  Michael Connelly's intricate plot is tight, tense, and compelling as his seemingly unrelated storylines twist, turn, and finally come together in an explosive, knock you off your feet climax and clever, unexpected ending.  His prose is eloquent and entertaining, and filled with vivid, evocative language, crisp, gritty dialogue, and riveting scenes.  But it's Mr Connelly's brilliant characterizations, that as always, make this book a stunner.  These are complex, fascinating, real people captured on the page, and he is able to breathe life and magic into even the most minor player.  For those new to Michael Connelly and Harry Bosch, start at the beginning with The Black Echo, to get the real flavor of this series, and read them all.  For those who are already fans, Lost Light doesn't disappoint and belongs at the very top of every mystery/thriller lovers's &quot;must read&quot; pile.ected ending.  His prose is eloquent and entertaining, and filled with vivid, evocative language, crisp, gritty dialogue, and riveting scenes.  But it's Mr Connelly's brilliant characterizations, that as always, make this book a stunner.  These are complex, fascinating, real people captured on the page, and he is able to breathe life and magic into even the most minor player.  For those new to Michael Connelly and Harry Bosch, start at the beginning with The Black Echo, to get the real flavor of this series, and read them all.  For those who are already fans, Lost Light doesn't disappoint and belongs at the very top of every mystery/thriller lovers's &quot;must read&quot; pile.	2003-06-02
1108475:US	52793250	R2DZGLIEYFYP5P	0399233873	353728190	All The Way to Lhasa: A Tale from Tibet	Books	5	11	11	N	N	&quot;Long ago in the land of Tibet...&quot;	An old woman sitting by the side of the road first encounters a horse and rider.  &quot;How far is it to Lhasa?&quot;  &quot;Very far,&quot; said the old woman, &quot;you'll never make it there before night.&quot;  The rider kicks his horse and gallops off toward the holy city.  Next a boy walks by with his yak, &quot;one foot in front of the other.&quot;  &quot;How far is it to Lhasa?&quot;  &quot;Very far,&quot; said the old woman, &quot;But you can make it there before night.&quot;  And with a gentle tug, he and his yak continue on their way.  They climb steep and windy slopes, cross raging rivers, and travel through a blinding blizzard on their arduous and dangerous journey, finally passing the fallen horse and rider.  &quot;He thought the dark would come and he would never make it to the holy city of Lhasa.  But still the boy kept walking on and on with his steady yak, one foot in front of the other...&quot;  Barbara Helen Berger's engaging retelling of this Tibetan parable is filled with imagery and magic.  Her gentle and eloquent text, with its simple and uplifting message of steady determination, begs to be read aloud and shared.  But it's her stunning illustrations that really makes this picture book a stand out.  Each dreamy and expressive spread delights the reader with rich, warm colors, eye-catching detail, and beautiful Tibetan symbols that are later explained in an informative and well researched Author's note.  Together, word and art presents a captivating and evocative experience.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, All The Way To Lhasa works well with Don Brown's Far Beyond The Garden Gate as an introduction to Tibet's culture.  &quot;Then, in the last rays of the sun before night, he heard deep horns calling.  He heard bells, si li li, and drums, dro lo lo.  Emaho!  He had made it-one foot in front of the other, all the way to the holy city of Lhasa.&quot;	2003-05-28
1108598:US	52793250	R103IB7Z1EQK8C	0060097000	975991906	When Everybody Wore a Hat (New York Times Best Illustrated Books (Awards))	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A Little Slice of History.....	&quot;In 1916, when I was eight years old, there were almost no electric lights, cars or telephones-and definitely no TV.  Even fire engines were pulled by horses.  Kids went to LIBRARIES for books.  There were lots of immigrants...&quot;  William Steig takes the reader back to the simpler times of his childhood when mother bought her meat at the butchers, boys didn't play with girls, a nickel could buy you a hot dog, a pound of fruit, or a day at the movies, you didn't go to the doctor's office, the doctor came to your house, everyone wanted to have his picture taken on a horse, and everybody wore a hat.  &quot;There was no such thing as a hatless human being.&quot;  Written as if by an eight year old, Mr Steig's remembrances are sometimes poignant and always heartwarming and complemented by his marvelous, expressive childlike illustrations.  Adults will revel in all the nostagia, and kids will be intrigued by how different life was at the beginning of the last century.  When Everybody Wore A Hat is a charming slice of history, best read together and shared, that will whet the appetite, open interesting discussions, and send youngsters out looking for more.	2003-05-28
1115882:US	52793250	RA1JD9V8UO0J8	0688169910	223029201	Davy Crockett Saves the World	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fun-Filled, Captivating Tall Tale.....	&quot;I reckon by now you've heard of Davy Crockett, the greatest woodsman who ever lived.  Why, Davy could whip ten times his weight in wildcats and drink the Mississippi River dry.  He combed his hair with a rake, shaved his beard with an ax, and could run so fast that, whenever he went out, the trees had to step aside to keep from getting knocked down...&quot;  So who else, but Davy, would the president call on to save the planet from being &quot;blown to smithereens&quot; when &quot;the biggest, baddest ball of fire and ice and brimstone,&quot; Halley's Comet, came &quot;hurling itself lickety-split&quot; towards earth?  Rosalyn Schanzer answers the question with her witty and entertaining, wild and rollicking tall, tall tale about this larger than life frontiersman.  Ms Schanzer's vibrant storytelling captures the imagination with its rich, over-the-top exaggeration and clever backwoods language that just begs to be read aloud and shared.  Her bold, bright, and expressive artwork is filled with dazzling, action packed scenes, eye-catching detail, and marvelous humor.  Perfect for youngsters of all ages, Davy Crockett Saves The World is a captivating, fun-filled treasure that shouldn't be missed, and also finally tells the world why old Davy always wore his coonskin cap.	2003-05-21
1116748:US	52793250	R1GZZG93D7QSFP	0688129161	70732190	Millions to Measure	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Measuring Made Easy and Fun.....	&quot;There are millions of things-and many ways-to measure.  Let's fly back in time and see how people measured many years ago...&quot;  Marvelosissimo the Magician's takes the reader from prehistoric times to the present on an entertaining and informative tour of measurement.  Author, David Schwartz's engaging text, written in an easy to read, conversational style, tells the story of length, weight, and volume, and is rich in history, fun facts, and trivia.  Illustrator, Steven Kellogg's cartoon-like artwork is bright and playful and each busy page is filled with humor, eye-catching, expressive detail, and clever asides.  Youngsters will revel in all the easy to understand, measuring fun.  A terrific explanation of the metric system concludes this little gem of a picture book, and both students and teachers will find hours of fun practicing and using the concepts they learn here.	2003-05-21
1134427:US	52793250	R3IXG2R9JE83LK	088899043X	291559211	Very Last First Time	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Beneath the Ice.....	&quot;Eva Padlyat lived in a village on Ungava Bay in northern Canada.  She was Inuit, and ever since she could remember she had walked with her mother on the bottom of the sea.  It was something the people of her village did in winter when they wanted mussels to eat.  Today, something very special was going to happen.  Today, for the very first time in her life, Eva would walk on the bottom of the sea alone...&quot;  So begins Jan Andrews' tale of a young girl's first trip alone through the thick winter ice.  In painstaking and intriguing detail she describes Eva's adventure;  cutting a hole in the ice at low tide, descending to the dark ocean floor below, lighting candles to illuminate the sea bed, collecting mussels, and exploring this beautiful hidden world.....  Ms Andrews' engaging tale, filled with history, mystery, drama, and suspense captures the imagination, and is rich in imagery and magic.  Illustrator, Ian Wallace's quiet, dreamy artwork, in soft, textured tones, pulls the reader beneath the ice and right into the story.  Perfect for youngsters 5-9, Very Last First Time is a fascinating and evocative experience that shouldn't be missed, and works well as part of a unit introducing the Inuit culture and way of life, or as a stand-alone for story time.	2003-05-05
1138610:US	52793250	RY6CGIZSD99MG	0375823476	790299880	The Alphabet Keeper  (Flyaway Alphabet)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Crazy, Entertaining, Alphabet Fun.....	&quot;The Alphabet Keeper keeps all her letters caged in the dark.  One day she cleans the cage.  The letters fly around the room, each letter making its own special sound.  There is a sudden gust of wind and the window swings open.  The letters feel the delicious breeze.  They shiver with excitement...&quot;  So begins Mary Murphy's imaginative and inventive picture book.  Free at last, the letters head for the park with the Alphabet Keeper close behind, net in hand.  But just as she's about to pounce and catch them, the p turns upside down into a b and park turns into bark.  Before the Alphabet Keeper can recover from her shock, the b turns backward into a d and bark becomes dark.  &quot;I can't see them!&quot; says the Alphabet Keeper, and the letters fly away again.&quot;  The chase is on as letters change, are added or subtracted, and sometimes rearranged to make new words.  A cat becomes a hat, a bus turns into a bush, a plan turns into a plant, then loses the pl and becomes an ant crawling slowly away.  A rats flips around and turns into a star, a crow becomes a cow, a c turns loud into cloud, and a rock, becomes a rocket taking the letters on a ride to the moon.  The poor, frustrated Alphabet Keeper realizes she may not ever get them back.....  Ms Murphy's creative text is engaging and filled with clever wordplay that should challenge and intrigue young spellers, and teachers and emerging readers will revel in building on the lessons, continuing the game and making new words.  Her playful illustrations  complement the text beautifully and add just the right touch of silly, irreverent fun.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Alphabet Keeper is a unique, fun-filled, manic romp that shouldn't be missed.	2003-05-01
1138777:US	52793250	R2GT1YUH60F8B6	0375822933	785258551	The Best Place to Read	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Can't Wait to Read.....	&quot;A new book for me-/I can't wait to read!/I run to my own little chair./I'm growing too tall and the seat is too small,/So I am not comfortable there.&quot;  Now where is the perfect place for our young narrator to read his new book?  He looks all over the house and even outside, but can't quite find just the right spot.  Grammy's soft, cozy chair is being used by Rover, and he's not sharing.  Daddy's chair is under the cold, blowing  ceiling fan, and his brother's beanbag chair has sprung a leak.  The kitchen's too sticky and messy, Grandpa's chair has sprung a spring, and though the backyard is warm and sunny, the sprinklers come on as soon as he settles in and now it's too wet out there.  &quot;I dry myself off./I give up, I can't read./I've tried to sit down everywhere./With no reading done, I'm still on page one-/I can't find a comfortable chair!&quot;  Debbie Bertram and Susan Bloom's clever, rhyming text is engaging and full of bouncy energy, and complemented by Michael Garland's bold, bright, and playful illustrations.  Each page dazzles with vibrant color, marvelous facial expressions, and humor as our frustrated hero is thwarted again and again as he runs from room to room looking for just the right place to read.  With a sweet ending to set everything right, The Best Place To Read is a heartwarming, joyous romp preschoolers will beg to read again and again.  &quot;Mommy, oh, Mom!/May I sit on your lap?/I love it so much when we share.&quot;  The best place to be, just my book, Mom, and me-/At last.../In a comfortable chair.&quot;	2003-05-01
1140953:US	52793250	R3S0SMEMU9QSJ3	0689847238	309407745	Little Quack	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Ducky Fun.....	&quot;Mama Duck had five little ducklings, Widdle, Waddle, Piddle, Puddle, and Little Quack.  They all lived together in a nice, soft nest.  But even Mama's littlest duckling was not so little anymore.  &quot;It's time to leave the nest,&quot; she said one day...&quot;  And that means it's time to learn to swim and take that first dip in the pond.  All the little ducklings are very anxious, especially Little Quack.  But one by one, with a lot of encouragement from Mama, they conquer their fear and take the plunge.....  Lauren Thompson's simple, repetitive text is engaging and begs to be read aloud and shared.  But it's Derek Anderson's exuberant and playful illustrations that really make this picture book a stand-out.  Each large, dazzling spread is filled with bold color, marvelous facial expressions, eye-catching detail, and lots of humor, that makes this a perfect selection for story time.  An inventive Quack-U-Lator running along the bottom of each page introduces counting and addition, and just adds to the fun.  Little Quack is a delightful, interactive, preschool crowd pleaser that's sure to become an often requested, instant favorite both at school and at home.	2003-04-29
1140998:US	52793250	R2BIVXLCWD4S3H	0670035491	233579116	Belinda, the Ballerina	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Hold On To Your Dream.....	&quot;Once there was a ballerina named Belinda.  Belinda loved to dance.  She went to dancing school every day and practiced very hard.  She was graceful and light on her feet.  But Belinda had a big problem-TWO big problems:  her left foot and her right foot...&quot;  When she tried to audition for the Annual Ballet Recital, the judges took one look at her large feet and sent her home.  &quot;You will never be a dancer-not with those feet.&quot;  Poor Belinda, she hung up her pink tutu and toe shoes and went looking for something new to do.  She found a nice job as a waitress at Fred's Fine Food.  &quot;The customers liked her because she was quick and light on her feet.&quot;  She loved her new job, but Belinda missed dancing.  One day a band came to play at the restaurant, and soon Belinda's toes began tapping.  In no time, she was dancing across the floor, night after night, as the musicians performed.  &quot;The customers were enthralled.  They loved it so much that they told their friends...&quot;  Word spread quickly as friends told friends, and soon word reached the Maestro from the Grand Metropolitan Ballet.....  Amy Young's simple story is sweet and heartwarming, but predictable.  It's her playful and engaging illustrations that really make this picture book stand out and sparkle.  Each expressive page is rich in charm, bright color, marvelous detail and warm humor.  With a gentle message that won't be lost on little ones, Belinda The Ballerina is perfect for youngsters 3-7.  Remember, dreams do come true.  Just ask Belinda.	2003-04-29
1143622:US	52793250	R39L7WBE8NM5TB	015201585X	350051178	That Summer	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Life, Love, and Loss.....	&quot;That summer began like always, with hoots and shouts, all of us running in the sun, freed from school...&quot;  But, as his brother, the narrator tells us, on the fourth of July, Joey &quot;took sick.&quot;  He went to bed and stayed there.  When he perked up, the whole family was filled with hope, and when he got worse again, they realized the awful truth.  &quot;What do you do when you know you are leaving the world, when your heart hurts with grieving?  Joey was leaving.  It was clear as the rain that stung his window that summer.&quot;  Gram sat by his bed keeping vigil and quilting, and when Joey couldn't sleep, Gram taught him how to quilt.  And so that summer, he sewed the pieces of his young life together, all the things he love, &quot;a patch with an owl because he loved its call, the cow he squeezed from clay (first grade), and his fishing pole and a lightning bug and a country road and his baseball glove...&quot;  Author, Tony Johnston, and illustrator, Barry Moser, invite the reader to share in this very intimate and moving experience.  Mr Johnston's quiet, understated, and eloquent text is at times both poignant and uplifting, and rich in beautifully poetic figurative language.  Mr Moser's stunning artwork captures the special moments of Joey's life in dazzling full-colored illustrations, juxtaposed with touching and emotional gray and white &quot;snapshots&quot; that seem to be pulled from the family photo album.  Together, word and art paints a remarkable portrait of life, strong love and loss, told with great insight, wisdom, and truth.  Perfect for youngsters 5 and older, That Summer is an inspiring story that deals with the sensitive subject of the death of a loved one with honesty and respect, and should help open important discussions.  As Barry Moser writes in his dedication... &quot;For all the courageous people who care for terminally ill children, with my deepest respect and admiration.&quot;  An amazing book that shouldn't be missed.	2003-04-27
1148323:US	52793250	R3T0KN2XWTE1MP	0803726015	403424404	Rise the Moon	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Bedtime Splendor.....	&quot;Rise the moon/and lunar moth,/drawn to its lovely shine,/flits across the blossoms/of the dreamy moonflower vine...&quot;  Join the moon on its magical journey across the sky and watch the nightime world come alive.  Meet the moonlit artist who &quot;takes his brush to paint a bowl of light&quot;, the night-shift baker, a rooftop dancer, and the sleepy sailor &quot;on the swaying schooner.&quot;  See the sea turtles &quot;launch themselves across a breezy dune&quot;, the bat, and the moon-awakened mouse.  And hear the silver wolf &quot;howl its ancient moonstruck song.  Astronomers are having a &quot;star-party on the soaring mountain slopes&quot;, a camper reads by moonlight, and a young mother and her sleeping baby &quot;swings by moon-glow beneath the leafy boughs...&quot;  Eileen Spinelli weaves an enchanting nightime spell with this captivating lullaby.  Her soothing, lyrical verse is filled with imagery and magic and complemented by Raul Colon's stunning artwork.  Each illustration captures the wonders of the night in soft, dreamy, moonlit tones, and young and old alike will want to linger before turning the page.  Perfect for preschoolers, Rise The Moon is a marvelous addition to any bedtime ritual.  &quot;So rise the moon,/so round and bright,/let its tender magic fall./Within its spell of splendor/we are/moon-hearted creatures/all.&quot;	2003-04-23
1149699:US	52793250	R2G2XB11UT6OME	0060083247	879661551	Ties That Bind (Amanda Jaffe)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Twists, Turns, and Surprises.....	When Portland, Oregon defense attorney, Amanda Jaffe, is asked by the court to defend Jon Dupre, a drug dealer and owner of an upscale escort service, her first instinct is to just say no.  This case is a slam dunk for the prosecution.  Dupre is accused of not only murdering a U.S. Senator, but of also stabbing and killing his high-profile, big named attorney right in the jailhouse conference room under the watchful eyes of a guard.  No other lawyer will touch the case, for obvious reasons.  Dupre claims he's innocent and being framed.  He says his attorney came at him with the shiv, and he was only defending himself.  Amanda finds one aspect of the case intriguing.  Dupre's arms and hands are covered with defensive wounds that add some credibility to his story.  But the obvious question hangs in the air.  Why would his own attorney try to murder him?  As she begins to investigate, Amanda stumbles over a connection between her client's case and some of Portland's high-powered elite that goes back thirty years.  And the deeper she digs into the past, the more she comes to realize that these men will do anything to protect themselves, their secrets, and their way of life.  Finding justice for Jon Dupre won't be easy, and has placed not only her life, but everyone she loves in harms way.....  Buckle your seatbelt and pull it tight, Phillip Margolin is about to take you on a roller coaster of a ride.  This is an action packed thriller filled with twists, turns, and more than a few surprises.  Unfortunately, the story line never really rings true, is awkward at times and a bit over-the-top.  When it comes to the climax and implausable ending, you definitely have to be willing to suspend disbelief.  Mr Margolin's cast of too many characters tend to be one dimensional and uninspired.  It's really hard to empathize or care about these people, and you almost need a scorecard to keep track of who's who and what's what.  Ties That Bind is an entertaining, fast read, easily finished in one sitting.  Nothing memorable.  A good book for a long plane ride.ished in one sitting.  Nothing memorable.  A good book for a long plane ride.	2003-04-22
1164645:US	52793250	R2AJJXT5599EQR	0688169937	589408688	How Ben Franklin Stole the Lightning	Books	5	12	14	N	N	The Ever-Inventive, Ben Franklin.....	&quot;It's true!  The great Benjamin Franklin really did steal lightning right out of the sky!  And then he set out to tame the beast.  It goes to figure, though, because he was a man who could do just about anything...&quot;  So begins Rosalyn Schanzer's engaging introduction to one of colonial America's most fascinating men.  Ben Franklin was a man of many talents and  accomplishments.  He was a writer, politician, soldier, musician, inventor, and entrepreneur.  He helped lead our country to independence, and traveled the world as a statesman.  But he often best known for his inventions and boundless curiosity.  This of course leads to his interest in electricity and the well known kite and key experiment.....  Ms Schanzer's entertaining text is written in an easy to read, conversational style, and is rich in history, trivia, fun facts, and wit.  Her playful illustrations complement the text beautifully and are filled with bold color, humor, and captivating, eye-catching details.  Together word and art provides a clever and appealing history lesson that is sure to whet the appetite and send kids out looking for more.  With a marvelous Author's Note at the end to further enlighten and augment the story, How Ben Franklin Stole The Lightning is a masterpiece of fun-filled learning, perfect for kids 7-11, that shouldn't be missed.	2003-04-09
1168494:US	52793250	R2TUO6COMXDP33	0399149775	563294014	Back Story (Spenser Mystery)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Tight, Tense, Brilliant.....	What is the going rate to investigate a twenty-eight year old murder?  If you're Spenser, and the request comes from surrogate son, Paul Giacomin, the price is a hefty six Krispy Kreme doughnuts, paid up front.  Paul's friend, Daryl Gordon, is looking for answers.  Back in 1974, her mother, Emily, was shot and killed during a bank robbery right here in Boston.  A hippie revolutionary group, The Dread Scott Brigade, claimed responsibility, and then, along with the stolen money, disappeared.  There seemed to be few clues and leads to this robbery/murder, and the unsolved case has been cold and pretty much forgotten, all these years, until Spenser decides to take a look and stir things up.  Now as two unlikely partners, the mob and the FBI, threaten Spenser to lay off and let this old crime remain unsolved, it's just the push he needs to dig deeper and see the case to its bitter end.....  After a couple of rather disappointing, lackluster Spenser novels, Robert Parker is back in rare form, and Spenser's thirtieth outing is as intriguing and entertaining as his first.  Mr Parker's well-paced story line is tense and compelling, filled with non-stop action, vivid, riveting scenes and brilliant characterizations.  But as always, it's his spare, crisp prose and droll, witty dialogue that is the strength of this novel, and no one does it better than the P.I. Grand Master of them all.  For those new to Robert Parker and Spenser, start with some of his earlier mysteries to get a real feel for the series and its characters.  For those who are already fans, kick back, visit with old friends, and enjoy.  Back Story is a strong addition no mystery lover should miss.	2003-04-06
1172861:US	52793250	RA31DZP9ZFSZD	0689849796	166101900	Pigs, Pigs, Pigs!	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Oh Those Wonderful Pigs.....	&quot;The pigs are coming to play, hooray!/The pigs are coming today./We'd better take care to completely prepare,/A minute's too long to delay.&quot;  The entire town is up, out, and busy cooking a marvelous gastronomic spread for their soon to be arriving porcine friends.  &quot;We're planning a feast for ten thousand at least,/We're cooking a fabulous meal./We're mixing and baking and fixing and making/A spread that will make those pigs squeal.&quot;  And after eating all their yummy treats...fried green tomatoes, cheese tortellini, gooey chop suey, pastrami on rye, mashed sweet potatoes, buckets of apple brown betty, mountains of chips with fountains of dips, and coconut chocolate cream pie..., it's the pigs turn to thank their hosts.  &quot;They sing and they dance and they swing and they prance,/They light up the stage like the sun./Our hands get to clapping, our feet set to tapping,/And then we all join in the fun.&quot;  A good time is definitely had by all.....  The dynamic duo, author, Leslea Newman and illustrator, Erika Oller are back, and after singing the praises of cats (Cats, Cats, Cats!)and dogs (Dogs, Dogs, Dogs!) in earlier picture books, are now ready to take on pigs.  Ms Newman's engaging, rhyming text is filled with rhythm, energy, humor, and fun, and is complemented by Ms Oller's playful watercolors, rich in warm, soft tones and expressive, eye-catching details.  With a silly twist at the end to tickle your funny bone, Pigs, Pigs, Pigs! is a rollicking, fun-filled read little ones 3-7 will beg to hear again and again at story time.  &quot;We're tired and weary, in fact we're quite bleary,/But none of us can fall asleep./We've got to hold steady, we've got to get ready,/Our next guests are coming-the sheep!&quot;	2003-04-02
1174691:US	52793250	R2JMFB1XYRK19I	038097889X	168660095	Mumbo Gumbo: A Madeline Bean Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Mumbo Gumbo Good.....	Madeline Bean, caterer and events planner to the stars, is a bit concerned as she and her team work on this evening's wrap party for the mega-hit gameshow, Food Freak.  The company calendar is empty;  the pages are all blank.  That's right, this is the last party on the schedule, and until things pick up again, she's going to have to find some part-time work to pay the bills.  As luck would have it, work finds her.  It seems the network has ordered one more Food Freak show, an over the top, cook-off  extravaganza to end its first, number one ratings season, and the head writer, Tim Stock, has disappeared.  Who better to fill his culinary shoes than our girl, Maddie Bean?  Of course the grateful producer is willing to pay big bucks and big perks for two weeks work, so Maddie finds herself saying yes to the glitz and glamour of T.V. gameshow land.  But in no time, it becomes obvious that something very sinister is hard at work behind the scenes, and there's a lot more cooking on Food Freak, than clever contestant questions and new recipes.  And as the mysteries and mayhem hit closer and closer to home, Maddie's determined to find answers and head off disaster before the show wraps up, maybe for good.....  Jerrilyn Farmer is back with another wonderful gastronomic mystery, and fans of her Madeline Bean series won't be disappointed.  The well paced plot is filled with wit and humor, marvelous dialogue, vivid scenes, and a quirky cast of delightful, original characters.  Ms Farmer's breezy prose is engaging, and rich in Hollywood history, fun facts, and trivia that not only entertains, but adds real credibility to the story.  Add to that her indepth knowledge of game shows and the ins and outs of food preparation and the kitchen, and you have the makings of a delicious treat.  Folks new to Ms Farmer's Madeline Bean and company should start at the beginning with Sympathy For The Devil to get the real flavor of this series, and read them all.  For those who are already fans, it's time to kick back, open Mumbo Gumbo, and enjoy.	2003-04-01
1180374:US	52793250	R35Q6Z88P3YL82	1551666693	291440550	Deadly Remedy	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Tight, Tense, and Compelling.....	&quot;I never put much stock in omens and portents, but that strange August Wednesday had been rife with them, according to Miss Essie, who knew more about such things than I ever would...&quot;  It seemed to all start with the van accident, right outside the doors to small, rural Dawkins County hospital.  Emergency room physician, Rhea Lynch, couldn't believe the carnage she found inside the van, not all of it caused by the crash.  The two mysterious young women had been severly abused and mutilated, and the older of the two begins to display frightening, uncontrollable behavior in the hospital, casting spells, and practicing witchcraft and black magic.  Add to that a second dose of the supernatural with the appearance of a charismatic traveling faith healer, complete with miraculous cures, and Rhea finds her entire belief system, long grounded in facts and science, shaken to its very core.  As murder and mayhem ensues and the body count rises exponentially, Rhea tries to find the answers to this enigmatic puzzle and make sense of all the bizarre occurrences happening right in her own backyard.  And she knows one thing for certain, sleepy Dawkins County will never be quite the same again.....  The opening chapter of Gwen Hunter's latest medical thriller is so harrowing and compelling, that once you open Deadly Remedy, be prepared to finish this novel in one sitting.  Ms Hunter's well researched, intriguing story line is filled with crisp writing, vivid, riveting scenes and beautifully drawn, memorable characters.  But it's her in-depth knowledge about medicine and the ins and outs of the emergency room, and her great attention to detail that adds real credibility to the story and makes this suspenseful thriller a stand-out.  This is the third installment of a marvelous series that just gets better with each book, and readers new to Dawkins County, Rhea Lynch and company should start at the beginning with Prescribed Danger and read them all.  For those who are already fans, Deadly Remedy is about to take you on a fast paced, twisting, turning, roller-coaster of a ride, you definitely don't want to miss.	2003-03-26
1195545:US	52793250	R1YLPDKSPEJWAS	0618176748	935086576	Gossie (Gossie & Friends)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Delightful.....	&quot;This is Gossie.  Gossie is a gosling.  A small, yellow gosling who likes to wear bright red boots.  Every day...&quot;  They are her prized possession, and she almost never takes them off.  She wears them all the time, rain or shine, eating or sleeping.  Gossie just loves her bright red boots.  Then one morning they disappear.  Gossie looks everywhere, from one end of the farm to the other, but she can't find them.  &quot;They were gone.  Gossie was hearbroken.&quot;  But what is that flash of red?  Could that be her beloved boots?  &quot;They were walking.  On someone else's feet!&quot;  Olivier Dunrea's clever text is engaging and written in short, simple sentences that little ones will beg to help you read.  His charming and expressive artwork is bright, playful, and very appealing, and filled with gentle humor and captivating eye-catching details.  With a happily-ever-after solution to set everything right in the end, Gossie is a fun-filled preschool crowd pleaser that's sure to become an instant favorite at your house.	2003-03-13
1196095:US	52793250	RL5Z9O73V42RG	0761315357	588585833	My Friend Rabbit: A Picture Book (CALDECOTT MEDAL BOOK)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Friends to the End.....	&quot;My friend Rabbit means well.  But whatever he does, wherever he goes, trouble follows...&quot;  So begins our little mouse narrator's tale of the stuck airplane.  Generous Mouse let Rabbit take a turn and fly his plane, and now it's sitting out of reach, high in a tree.  &quot;Not to worry, Mouse.  I've got an idea!&quot;  And what a huge idea it is as Rabbit struggles to pull and push an enormous elephant to the tree, and plop him down right under the now stuck airplane.  Next he carries a rhino, then a hippo, a deer, an alligator, a bear, and a duck onto the scene, making a tall pyramid with Rabbit poised on top holding Squirrel.  &quot;The plane was just out of reach.  Rabbit said, &quot;Not to worry, Mouse, I've got an idea.&quot;  So Rabbit held Squirrel and Squirrel held me...  but then...&quot;  It can all be summed up in one word, disaster.....  Eric Rohmann's spare, witty text is kept to the bare minimum.  It's his bold and engaging, Caldecott Medal winning illustrations that really tell this hilarious chain of events story.  Each two page spread dazzles with expression, drama, suspense, humor, and marvelous eye-catching details.  Little ones will revel in all the captivating fun, and also understand the gentle message of sharing, tolerance, and the importance of friendship.  Perfect for preschoolers, My Friend Rabbit is a treasure and soon to be classic that kids will beg to read again and again, and is sure to become an instant favorite at story time.	2003-03-13
1196234:US	52793250	RQM5C9GVYCFRW	068985658X	557153067	Counting Kisses: A Kiss & Read Book	Books	5	117	124	N	N	Kisses Good Night.....	&quot;My tired little baby, do you need a kiss?&quot;  A cranky, crying, sleepy little one is about to go to bed.  But first she needs &quot;ten little kisses on teeny tiny toes&quot; and &quot;nine laughing kisses on busy, wriggly feet&quot; from Mommy.  Daddy's ready with &quot;eight squishy kisses on chubby, yummy knees.&quot;  Grandma plants &quot;seven loud kisses on a pretty belly button.&quot;  And so on...  Baby is passed from one member of the family to the next for her good night kisses, and even the dog and cat get into the act.....  Karen Katz's minimal text is engaging and filled with lots of love and charming descriptive words.  Her bright and playful illustrations are large and inviting, rich in bold color and eye-catching shapes and patterns.  Together word and art offer gentle, fun-filled opportunities to practice counting and to identify different body parts.  Perfect for preschoolers as young as one, Counting Kisses is a sweet and heartwarming little book youngsters will beg to add to their bedtime ritual.  &quot;...two gentle kisses on tired closing eyes, one last kiss on your sleepy, dreamy head, and now it's time for baby's bed.&quot;	2003-03-12
1199695:US	52793250	R2MTUJFN8IYDJF	0399231161	183807365	The Other Side	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The Fence.....	&quot;That summer the fence that stretched through our town seemed bigger.  We lived in a yellow house on one side of it.  White people lived on the other.  And Mama said, &quot;Don't climb over that fence when you play.&quot;  She said it wasn't safe...&quot;  Soon our narrator, Clover, sees a little white girl, Annie, hanging on the fence and staring into their yard, day after day.  She was always alone.  Finally, one day Clover gets close enough to the fence to talk to the little girl.  They exchange names, and smiles, and pretty soon the two are sitting together on top of the fence.  &quot;My mama says I shouldn't go on the other side,&quot; I said.  &quot;My mama says the same thing.  But she never said nothing about sitting on it.&quot;  &quot;Neither did mine,&quot; I said.  That summer me and Annie sat on that fence and watched the whole wide world around us...&quot;  Jacqueline Woodson's eloquent and understated prose captures the feel of the old South in the 1950's, before integration, and is both poignant and uplifting.  E B Lewis's elegant watercolors complement the text with expressive heartwarming and lifelike illustrations in soft summer tones.  Together, word and art paint an engaging portrait of times gone by with a gentle message that won't be lost on young readers.  Perfect for youngsters 7-10, or as a read aloud for younger children, The Other Side is a sensitive and evocative story, told with great insight, wisdom, and truth.  &quot;Someday somebody's going to come along and knock this old fence down,&quot; Annie said.  And I nodded.  &quot;Yeah,&quot; I said.  &quot;Someday.&quot;	2003-03-10
1203797:US	52793250	R3M8763N95GGS8	0807525448	450744193	Fox and Fluff	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Tale of an Unlikely Pair.....	&quot;One evening a little white egg bounced off a farm cart and cracked open.  Out hatched a fluffy round chick, just as Fox was coming along the path.  Fox thought, What's this? A snack!  Chick thought, Who's this?  Papa?&quot;  So begins Shutta Crum's heartwarming story of an unlikely duo.  Fox can't eat someone who calls him Papa, so he tries to lose this little feathered pest, but Fluff is attached to his big, strong &quot;Papa&quot;, and every time Fox turns around, there's Fluff tagging right along.  All the animals in the forest find this situation hysterical.  Poor Fox is losing his vicious reputation, the rabbit, mouse and frog aren't afraid of him anymore, and so he does the only thing he can think of to get out of this awkward Papa situation.  He takes Fluff to the farm and leaves him at the henhouse.  Fox thought life without Fluff would set everything right again.  But he didn't count on missing the little fellow.....  Ms Crum's gentle text begs to be read aloud and shared, and is rich in wit, humor, and energy.  John Bendall-Brunello's captivating illustrations are bold, bright, and expressive, and each page is filled with endearing characters and playful details.  With its clever happily-ever-after ending, Fox And Fluff is an engaging preschool crowd-pleaser that shouldn't be missed, and works well with Judy Hindley's Do Like A Duck Does.	2003-03-06
1205867:US	52793250	RXOHVOFQABN12	0763620033	412549844	Kiss the Cow!	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Pucker Up.....	&quot;Mama May lived where the earth met the sky, and her house was as wide as the prairie.  It needed to be.  Mama May had so many children she couldn't count them all.  Among Mama May's children was one called Annalisa.  She wasn't the youngest, and she wasn't the oldest, but she was the most curious and the most stubborn...&quot;  Every morning Annalisa watched as Mama May milked their cow, Luella.  First she sang her magic greeting song, and  Luella gave Mama all the milk she needed for her many, many children.  Then she sang her thank you song, and last, but not least, she gave Luella a kiss &quot;right on the end of her velvety, brown nose.&quot;  &quot;Ughhh!&quot; said Annalisa.  &quot;Imagine kissing a cow!&quot;  Annalisa watch the milking day in and day out, and wondered what it would be like.  Finally she just had to find out for herself.  She took her pail from the sandbox and ran down to the pasture.  First she sang the greeting song, and Luella filled her pail with warm, sweet milk.  Then she sang the thank you song.  But when it was time to kiss the cow, Annalisa absolutely would not.  The next day, when Mama May came to milk the cow, Luella was dry.  No matter how much she sang and kissed, there was no milk for Mama May's children.....  Phyllis Root's warm and engaging text is filled with wit and energy, and begs to be read aloud and shared.  Will Hillenbrand's bright, expressive, and entertaining illustrations are filled with humor and playful, eye-catching detail.  Together, word and art offer a preschool crowd-please that's sure to charm both young and old alike.  With its happily-ever-after ending to set everything right once again, Kiss The Cow is a winner!	2003-03-05
1205974:US	52793250	R10FL7RHMPZRAC	037581566X	326326669	Baghead	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A &quot;Bag&quot; Idea.....	&quot;On Wednesday morning, Josh had an idea.  A very BIG idea.  A very BROWN idea.  A very BIG, BROWN, BAG idea...&quot;  After cutting holes for his eyes and mouth, Josh dons a paper bag and heads downstairs for breakfast, and then off for his busy day at school and soccer practice.  None of the adults in his life, his parents, bus driver, teacher, or soccer coach is pleased when they see his bagged head... &quot;You can't eat breakfast with a paper bag on your head!&quot;  &quot;You crazy kid!  You can't go to school like that!&quot;  &quot;How do you plan to play like that?&quot;  But to their surprise, he has quite a successful day, even scoring three goals during his game.  Finally at dinner, his little sister asks the big question we've all been waiting for... &quot;Why are you wearing a bag, Josh?&quot;  Jarrett Krosoczka's simple, charming, humorous story engages, and is complemented by bold, bright and expressive illustrations.  The inevitable answer to Josh's unusual heargear is revealed at the end, and youngsters 4-8 are sure to enjoy his sister's creative solution to the &quot;baghead&quot; problem.	2003-03-05
1206713:US	52793250	R3TMHNZXC108GJ	0618238557	836507306	Courage	Books	5	8	9	N	N	We're All Heroes.....	As Bernard Waber tells us on the first few pages of this sweet and engaging little book... &quot;There are many kinds of courage.  Awesome kinds.  And everyday kinds.  Still, courage is courage-whatever kind...&quot;  You don't have to have a dangerous job, like a firefighter or policeman to be courageous, and you don't have to climb Mt Everest, or fly into outer space, or explore the depths of the ocean.  We all show how brave we are in special ways, every day.  Courage is taking off the training wheels and finally learning to ride your bike, going to bed without a nightlight, and being the first to make up after an argument.  Courage is getting a new haircut, never telling a secret entrusted to only you, and walking right up to the new kid and introducing yourself.  You're courageous if you taste the new vegetable first before you make a disgusting face, or if you read the whole mystery without turning to the last page to see who did it.  And sometimes it takes courage to start all over again, or hold on to your dream.....Mr Waber's simple, clever text is enhanced by his playful and humorous artwork, and youngsters are sure to see both the truth and a little of themselves on each page.  Perfect for kids 4-8, Courage is a heartwarming and utterly charming book, sometimes poignant, often uplifting, but always stated in a positive way, that should get little ones thinking and open interesting discussions.  &quot;Courage is what we give to each other.&quot;	2003-03-04
1212254:US	52793250	R13LZK4BDPHEN2	0316989126	527845965	Porcupining: A Prickly Love Story	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Porcupine Love.....	Poor Cushion.  Who ever thought of putting a little porcupine in a petting zoo?  All day long he sits alone surrounded by DO NOT TOUCH, KEEP OUT, and NO PETTING signs, watching all the other animals get pats and pets and hugs.  &quot;All the other animals had someone to love.  Poor Cushion had no one.&quot;  So on one especially lonely night Cushion writes a sad little ditty, takes his banjo, and goes out looking for a wife.  &quot;I've been so lonesome all my life./No one will get near./I'm porcupining for a wife,/Someone to hold me dear.&quot;  He looks all over the petting zoo, the rabbit hutch, pigsty, even the beavers' lodge, but none of the animals are the least bit interested in making a little prickly friend.  But Cushion is not discouraged.  &quot;I know I'll find the perfect wife if I just stick with it.&quot;  And that's when he hears a sweet voice whisper to him in the dark.  He couldn't see who was speaking, but he could see the signs...DO NOT TOUCH, KEEP OUT, and NO PETTING.  &quot;He felt a prickle run down his spine.&quot;  Had he finally found the love of his life.....  Lisa Wheeler, author of Sailor Moo: Cow At Sea, Wool Gathering: A Sheep Family Reunion, and Sixteen Cows, is back with another marvelous preschool crowd pleaser.  Her clever and captivating story, starring an endearing quilled hero, just begs to be read aloud and shared and is filled with humor, wordplay, and silly puns that will delight both children and adults alike.  Janie Bynum's bold, bright, and expressive illustrations complement this sweet tale beautfully, and are rich is vibrant color and playful, eye-catching details.    With its happily-ever-after ending, Porcupining is a heartwarming, fun-filled read that's perfect for story time, and is sure to be a often asked for favorite at your house.	2003-02-28
1213299:US	52793250	R2YNQC38LXA8P8	0439241006	440612149	How Do Dinosaurs Get Well Soon?	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Get Well, Dinosaur.....	&quot;What if a dinosaur/catches the flu?/Does he whimper and whine/in between each Atchoo?&quot;  So begins award winning author and illustrator, Jane Yolen and Mark Teague's playful and entertaining picture book about how to handle all the misery of the cold and flu season.  Does that dinosaur throw dirty tissues on the floor, toss off his covers, and fling his medicine out the door?  Does he dump his juice, hide from the doctor, scream and wail, and make a big stink?  No of course not.  He stays in bed, takes his medicine, cooperates at the doctor's office, and works at getting well soon.  &quot;He drinks lots of juice,/and he gets lots of rest./He's good at the doctor's/'cause doctors know best.&quot;  Ms Yolen's silly, rhyming text is a bit forced, and not quite as wonderful as in their first collaboration, How Do Dinosaurs Say Good Night.  But Mr Teague's expressive,  bold, bright and exuberant artwork is engaging, and filled with humor and wit.  Young dinosaur lovers will revel in all the fun-filled, captivating illustrations.  How Do Dinosaurs Get Well Soon? is a preschool crowd pleaser, that is sure to put a smile on every little runny-nosed face.	2003-02-27
1215740:US	52793250	RQV6KLPB9EKBL	0786805544	931038360	Float Like a Butterfly	Books	2	3	8	N	N	&quot;The Greatest&quot;	Born Cassius Clay in segregated Louisville, Kentucky, Muhammad Ali grew up to become one of the greatest heavyweight boxing champions ever to step into the ring.  Author, Ntozake Shange, details some of the highlights of Ali's life in this very spare, bare-bones biographical sketch.  Each two page spread touches on an event in Muhammad Ali's life:  his upbringing during the Jim Crow era in a solid, nurturing family; the bike theft that turned him towards boxing...&quot;Somebody stole my bike, and I'm gonna whup 'em good.&quot;; his Olympic gold medal; the conversion to Islam, and his fights against Sonny Liston and Joe Frazier.  Ms Shange is obviously an avid Ali fan, and the book comes off more as a tribute or hero worship than real biography.  There's no meat here, no depth or understanding, just a short timeline of a few unconnected, important events in his life.  The strongest part of Float Like A Butterfly are Edel Rodriguez's action-packed, comic-book-like artwork.  His big, bold, and appealing illustrations are evocative and dramatic, and often tell more about Ali's life than the text.  Written for youngsters 4-8, Float Like A Butterfly is a weak addition to the picture book biography genre.  Kids interested in Muhammad Ali and/or boxing would do better to read James Haskin's Champion: The Story of Muhammad Ali.	2003-02-25
1216103:US	52793250	RUE8TWHMMFPKS	0618083642	252262490	Far Beyond the Garden Gate: Alexandra David-Neel's Journey to Lhasa	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Meet Alexandra  David-Neel.....	From early childhood, Alexandra David-Neel dreamed of traveling and exploring faraway places.  &quot;I craved to go beyond the garden gate, to follow the road that passed it by, and set out for the unknown,&quot; she later recalled.  &quot;I dreamed of wild hills, immense deserted steppes, and impassable landscapes of glaciers!&quot;  As a child, she traveled away from her ordinary life through books and museums, discovering a passion for Buddhism and Asian culture.  Her talent as a singer, sent her to India, Greece, and North Africa to perform with opera companies, but that didn't satisfy her wanderlust.  Finally in 1911 at the age of forty-three, she left her husband and home in Tunis, North Africa to begin the journey of her dreams.  She would travel to the sacred and secretive city of Lhasa, the Forbidden City in Tibet.  &quot;Many travelers had been stopped on their way to Lhasa, and had accepted failure.  I would not... I would reach Lhasa and show what the will of a woman could achieve!&quot;   Using his trademark eloquent prose and artwork, along with some of Alexandra David-Neel's own words, Don Brown weaves a clever and fascinating  story in his latest picture book biography, Far Beyond The Garden Gate.  Mr Brown's engaging text is filled with imagery, magic, history, mystery, and intriguing facts and details, and complemented by evocative illustrations in soft, dreamy hues.  Together word and art transports the reader to Tibet for the arduous adventure of a lifetime.  With an Author's Note to augment the story and further enlighten, Far Beyond The Garden Gate is a marvelous introduction to both an amazing woman and little known country that will whet the appetite of kids 8-12, and send them out looking for more.	2003-02-24
1216366:US	52793250	R31WH8WFHMBJFE	0670035637	650631518	10 (Ten)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Counting Armadillos.....	&quot;Here is the town where Mr. and Mrs. Armadillo live.  They just got married, and they are crazy about each other...&quot;  They play in the park and rest on a bench when they're tired.  They greet other armadillos passing by, and they dream of a family and what to name their future babies.  And then one morning Mrs Armadillo notices her tummy is getting bigger, and bigger, and even bigger, and she announces that she's going to have a baby.  Mr Armadillo rushes her to the hospital where she delivers not just one, but ten new green and pink little ones.  Overwhelmed with the prospect of naming ten babies, they decide to call them One, Two, Three, Four, Five, Six, Seven, Eight, Nine, and Ten.  &quot;Perfect names.  I am so happy.&quot;  Ecstatic relatives arrive with gifts.  Grandma brings ten potties...just in case everyone has to go at the same time.  Grandpa brings ten baseball caps...he really likes baseball. Uncle Elmer brings ten tutus, because he's so happy he feels like dancing, and Uncle Elmer's wife brings ten pets.  One great big, very, very happy family.....  Vladimir Radunsky's entertaining, wacky story is engaging, and filled with joy, humor, and the author's witty asides.  But it's his bold, bright, and busy illustrations that really steal the show.  Each expressive, playful spread is rich in dazzling color, intricate patterns, vibrant, eye-catching details, and lots of opportunities to practice your counting skills.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Ten is a captivating, fun-filled, manic romp that is sure to charm and delight young and old alike.	2003-02-24
1219616:US	52793250	R1FHTEL2TDYJBM	0810910217	547164890	Babar's Yoga for Elephants	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Stretch, Breathe, Relax, and Enjoy.....	As Babar earnestly tells us on page one, archaeololgists recently discovered drawings on cave walls of elephants in yoga positions.  After much research and study, these scientists came to the conclusion that &quot;not only were elephants capable of performing yoga, it seemed they had invented it.&quot;  Unfortunately, over many millions of years, this ancient art was forgotten.  But now, yoga has once again become popular among elephants, especially in Babar's home of Celesteville.  &quot;The life of a modern-day elephant is stressful and complicated.  Yoga turned out to be exactly what we in Celesteville needed, offering calm and control in days that were busy and demanding...&quot;  Join our friendly and endearing pachyderm as he explains in detailed, easy to follow, step by step instructions and pictures, fifteen yoga exercises.  And then join Babar and Celeste on their many travels and adventures as they demonstrate just how they use them.  Often they try and match their yoga positions to the things around them.  &quot;I think it is a nice way to meditate.  This allows us to connect to the world around us.&quot;  At the Metropolitan Museum of Art Babar posed in the Arm Balance position and looked just like a skyscraper.  Paris' Eiffel Tower inspired Proud Warrior, and Venice's Piazza San Marco was the perfect setting for Standing Head to Knee.  And at the Golden Gate Bridge, he and Celeste enjoyed doing the Cobra together.....  Laurent De Brunhoff's engaging and humorous text begs to be read aloud and shared and is complemented by his playful and entertaining, signature illustrations.  Together word and art create a clever how-to picture book, that will have youngsters out of their seats and on their mats, practicing yoga poses and breathing exercises, stretching, and improving their balance and strength.  Perfect for kids of all ages, Babar's Yoga For Elephants is a timeless treasure and a sure classic in the years to come.  As Babar reminds us on the last page...&quot;Do a little yoga every day.  At first you may not notice any difference.  But keep it up, and after a few weeks I believe you will feel better in body and spirit.  All of us in Celesteville hope that Yoga for Elephants will bring you peace and inner harmony.&quot;	2003-02-21
1222059:US	52793250	R38TSTJ8PCBXDJ	0375823883	161761826	Last Night I Dreamed a Circus	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Vibrant and Imaginative.....	&quot;Last night I dreamed a circus.  I spun circles round the stars.  And juggled a rose garden...&quot; So begins children's books newcomer, author, Maya Gottfried's, ode to the fun and excitement found under the big top.  Her simple, spare, lyrical text is evocative and filled with imagery and magical descriptions that transports the reader into the dream.  But it's illustrator, Robert Rahway Zakanitch's bold, bright and vivid watercolors that really makes this picture book a winner.  Each dramatic illustration is rich in dazzling color, intricate shapes and patterns, and eye-catching detail, and little ones will want to linger and explore every stunning page.  Together word and art offers a vibrant, captivating circus adventure.  Perfect for story time, Last Night I Dreamed A Circus is a preschool crowd pleaser that begs to be read aloud and shared.	2003-02-19
1224118:US	52793250	R31YJ9OATZV59C	0618164537	959516080	The White Swan Express: A Story About Adoption	Books	5	7	17	N	N	New Beginnings......	&quot;The sun rose above North America, and all over the continent people were getting up.  For some of them it was a special day...&quot;  Meet four wonderful &quot;families&quot; as they get ready to make their long awaited trip to China to meet their new daughters.  They pack very carefully, go to the airport, and fly halfway around the world to the city of Guangzhou.  They stay at the famous White Swan Hotel, where after waiting a long, long time, and signing many papers, they finally get to hold their babies.  And halfway around the world, in China, meet four special baby girls, ready to begin their new lives with loving parents.....  Drawing from personal experiences, authors Jean Davies Okimoto and Elaine M Aoki tell an uplifting and joyous story about international adoption.  Their engaging text is rich in varied emotions and warm humor, and is complemented by Meilo So's dazzling illustrations.  Each expressive page is filled with vivid color, swirling energy, and eye-catching detail.  With an afterword to fill in details and further enlighten, The White Swan Express is a captivating and heartwarming story about love and making new families.	2003-02-18
1225627:US	52793250	R1SW6PPK0TWZFY	0439266270	537955713	Wake Up, Big Barn!	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fun On The Farm.....	As day breaks, and the rooster crows with a big cock-a-doodle-doo, the farm comes to life in Suzanne Tanner Chitwood's lively, joyous debut picture book, Wake Up, Big Barn!  See the pigs roll in the mud, the horses run for their morning hay, the cows moo and the peacock spread his beautiful feathers.  Frogs hip-hop, bebop, tractor wheels chugga-ching, cherries for yummy cherry pie fall with a ping, ping, and even the weather vane gets into the act, wiggling on a windy day.  And as day ends, the old owl takes the night shift, shooby, hooby, hoo.....  Ms Chitwood's rhythmic, rhyming text begs to be read aloud, and is filled with energy, wordplay, and marvelous onomatopoeic sound effects.  But it's her clever, bold and bright torn paper collage artwork that really makes this book a winner, and little ones will revel in each big and vibrant two page spread as they discover dazzling colors, patterns, and shapes.  Perfect for preschoolers, Wake Up, Big Barn! is a captivating, fun-filled, playful romp.  &quot;Good night, Big Barn!  Good night, you!&quot;	2003-02-17
1229350:US	52793250	R33H0H3TD479YS	0152015779	900570562	Hello, Arctic!	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Arctic Wonderland.....	&quot;Arctic winter is cold, so cold.  The northern lights flicker across the dark sky.  But now Arctic summer is coming!&quot;  So begins Theodore Taylor's engaging and simple, non-fiction picture book.  The Arctic is so much more than just freezing cold, snow, and ice.  Watch the seasons change.  Summer arrives as the ice partially melts, the birds return, tundra flowers bloom, and the animals breed and play as the sun shines twenty-four hours a day.  But then the days begin to grow shorter. Winter is coming, and the birds and animals travel south.  &quot;Wind and snow have come again.  Good-bye, Arctic summer!  See you next year.&quot;  Mr Taylor's gentle, spare text is poetic and filled with imagery and magic.  But it's Margaret Chodos-Irvine's bold and bright, animal filled artwork that really tells the story and steals the show.  Each evocative, two page spread is rich in dazzling layered colors, interesting geometric shapes, and clever patterns, and little ones will want to linger and explore each captivating picture.  Hello, Arctic! is a preschool crowd pleaser, perfect for story time, or as part of a unit on seasons and/or the arctic.  This is children's non-fiction at its very best.  Kudos to Taylor and Chodos-Irvine!	2003-02-13
1230160:US	52793250	R3EFR5XM04DRQ7	0439139570	945950527	Confucius: The Golden Rule	Books	5	13	15	N	N	The Life and Times of Confucius.....	&quot;More than 2,500 years have passed since Confucius walked the dusty country roads of China, chatting with his disciples, yet his voice still rings clear and true down through the centuries.  Those who knew him never forgot him.  Those who came after handed down his sayings from one generation to the next, right up to our own time...&quot;  So begins Russell Freedman's brilliant and engaging biography of Confucius, a minor government official who desperately wanted to be a political force in ancient China.  &quot;Though he offered many bold ideas for reform, his advice was ignored by the rulers of the day.  For this reason, he spent much of his time teaching and discussing his ideas with his students.&quot;  His simple, yet profound thoughts about government, education, and religion were shared with his followers through conversations and dialogues, and finally written down, many years after his death, in a book that has come to be known as the Analects.  &quot;This slim volume is the one source where we can most clearly hear the unique voice of the real, living Confucius.&quot;  Mr Freedman's well researched story is written in an easy to read, conversational style and filled with history, mystery, intriguing biographical details, quotes from the Analect, and fascinating fun facts.  Frederic Clement's elegant and evocative Chinese-style illustrations look ancient and authentic, and are rich in emotion, color, and detail.  Together word and art bring the great philospher and his times to life on the page.  With an enlightening Author's Note, and informative sources and suggestions for further reading included at the end, Confucius: The Golden Rule is an entertaining and inspiring introductory biography that is sure to whet the appetite of kids 10 and older, and send them out looking for more.  &quot;And so, after twenty-five centuries, the pros and cons of what Confucius said or didn't say are still being debated.  The reason isn't hard to find.  He trusted people to think for themselves.  He was always ready to offer suggestions, but he insisted that each of us must find answers for ourselves.  And he admitted that he himself did not know the truth, only a way to look for it...&quot;	2003-02-13
1239258:US	52793250	R2G7MBHURLFNEX	0374399921	366469859	It's Snowing!	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wonder and Joy.....	&quot;It's a dark dark, cold cold night.  Mama rocks the cradle.  The cradle rocks Baby.  Baby softly sleeps.  Mama sighs and nods her head.  Baby sighs and sucks his thumb...&quot;  And then Mama notices the first flakes dancing down from the sky.  &quot;It's snowing!&quot; Mama sings.  Baby wakes and blinks.  &quot;Baby, it's snowing!&quot;  She bundles him up, scrunches into her coat, scarf, and mittens, and &quot;trundles&quot; outside to revel in her baby's first snowfall.  She wants her son to experience it all, see the snow, hear it, taste it, feel it, and even smell it.  They build a snow troll, sled together down the big hill, and ride their big ice bear.  But now it's time to go back inside their warm house and back to sleep.....  Olivier Dunrea's simple, spare, poetic text is heartwarming and engaging.  But it's his evocative and expressive illustrations that really bring this endearing story to life, and children will be mesmerized by his beautiful and playful winter wonderland scenes.  Perfect for preschoolers, It's Snowing is a joyful treasure the whole family can share, that captures the wonder and excitement of a first snowfall.	2003-02-05
1240124:US	52793250	R2YPZDW2MX09S1	0439269679	976951350	When Marian Sang: The True Recital of Marian Anderson	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Introducing Marian Anderson.....	The dynamic duo that brought us Amelia And Eleanor Go For A Ride are back with an amazing new picture book biography of the great contralto, Marian Anderson.  From her humble beginnings in South Philadelphia, to her great success in Europe, &quot;Marian Fever,&quot; and the famous 1939 concert on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, to her momentous debut, at the age of 57, with the Metropolitan Opera, Pam Munoz Ryan highlights Marian's long and remarkable career, and paints a vivid and riveting portrait of her struggle with the humiliation of racism and prejudice in America.  &quot;...When she arrived at her destination, she often sang the same program twice, to separate audiences - one white and one black - or to segregated groups, whites in the best seats and blacks in the balcony.  Many times, she was welcomed enthusiastically by her audiences, and then could not get a hotel room because she was Negro.&quot;  Her great dignity and courage was an inspiration to all, and she worked hard to make life better for future African American performers.  &quot;...Marian sang for kings and queens, presidents and prime ministers, famous composers and conductors.  She received medals, awards, and honorary degrees for her magnificent voice.  But there was still one place Marian had not sung...&quot;  Ms Munoz Ryan's eloquent text is both poignant and uplifting, and complemented by Brian Selznick's powerfully evocative and emotional artwork in warm, old photograph-like sepia tones.  Together, word and art captures the life and times of Marian Anderson, and brings them to life on the page.  With an author's and illustrator's note at the end to further illuminate and enlighten, When Marian Sang is perfect for youngsters 7 and older, and is a stunning masterpiece that shouldn't be missed.  &quot;On opening night excitement charged the air.  As Marian waited in the wings, the orchestra began.  Her stomach fluttered.  She walked onto the grand stage.  Trembling, she straightened hercostume and waited for the pounding music she knew to be her cue.  Tonight was her debut with the Metropolitan Opera.  At long last, she had reached the sun and the moon.  The curtains parted... and Marian sang.&quot;	2003-02-05
1248619:US	52793250	REOBNX7O6GRS0	038078355X	996762762	Sex and Salmonella: A Tory Bauer Mystery (Tory Bauer Series)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Wry, Witty, and Wise.....	Poor Tory Bauer.  This over forty, overweight, widowed, mystery loving waitress would like nothing more than a little peace and quiet when her early shift at the cafe is over.  Maybe some James Taylor on the stereo, a cold Diet Coke, and a good book to keep her company.  But that is not to be.  Delphi, South Dakota is hopping this hot and dusty summer afternoon.  Hamilton Bogner's International Extravaganza is in town, and this rather seedy carnival has set itself up on the vacant lot right next to Tory's trailer.  To make matters worse, her officious cousin, Junior, has gotten food poisoning, and Tory's been enlisted to take her four young children to the Extravaganza.  There are rides and games, food booths filled with sugary treats, and a trip through the ever popular fun house with its Evil Hall of Mirrors.  As Tory looks up, trying to get her bearings, she sees a dead body stuffed up in the ceiling grid above the mirrors.  This is no prop, that's for sure.  She knows the real thing when she sees it, and even recognizes the corpse, Lily Mitchell, a troubled young carnival worker.  Who would want Lily dead, and why?  Now with the gossip mill grinding overtime, and secrets and suspicions popping up all over town, Tory dives head first into the case, and she's not going to stop digging until she gets to the truth.....  Kathleen Tayor is back with the second installment of her Tory Bauer mysteries, and this is a fun-filled series that just gets better with each book.  Sex And Salmonella has it all...  a well paced plot filled with vivid, laugh-out-loud scenes and clever twists and surprises, great small town, mid-west atmosphere, and a quirky cast of colorful and memorable characters.  But it's Ms Taylor's engaging writing, witty dialogue, and terrific dead-pan delivery that makes this novel stand out and sparkle, and once you begin the first entertaining chapter, be prepared to finish this book in one sitting.  Sex And Salmonella is the only Tory Bauer mystery thatis out of print, but it's well worth the effort to find a copy.  For those new to Kathleen Taylor and the gang from Delphi, South Dakota, be sure to start at the beginning with Funeral Food to get the real flavor of this series.  For those who are already fans, Sex And Salmonella is a winner that shouldn't be missed.	2003-01-29
1249135:US	52793250	R3TKRSWLF7MI2Q	0060286903	308263499	Mrs. Biddlebox (GOLDEN KITE AWARDS (AWARDS))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Bake that Bad Day Away.....	&quot;On a knotty little hill,/In a dreary little funk,/Mrs. Biddlebox rolled over/On the wrong side of her bunk...&quot;  What a terrible morning, dark and dreary.  An ill wind &quot;mussied up her hair&quot;, her chair creaked, the tea was bitter, her crumpets, stale, and the birds' singing was giving her a headache.  But Mrs Biddlebox is not one to sit and complain.  She's a woman of action and decides to turn this awful day into a scrumptious treat.  &quot;I will cook this rotten morning!/I will turn it into cake!/I will fire up my oven!/I will set the day to bake!&quot;  And so she gets busy collecting the gloom and grubbies, a filthy shadow, the damp, dank fog, the low, gray sky, and just a ray of hidden sunshine to sweeten the pot.  &quot;So she whipped and whisked and beat it./She rolled the day out flat./Mrs. Biddlebox laughed gleefully;/Her hands went pat-pat-pat...&quot;  At last she was ready to put her cake into the oven, and bake that sad, bad day away.....  Linda Smith's rhyming, lyrical text is charming and engaging, and filled with rhythm, energy, and humor.  Marla Frazee's swirling, dark and expressive illustrations complement the text beautifully, and together word and art sends a positive message that won't be lost on little ones.  Don't let a bad day get you down... take control, and turn it into something wonderful.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Mrs. Biddlebox is a read-aloud crowd pleaser kids will beg to hear again and again, and is sure to become an instant favorite at your house.	2003-01-28
1249787:US	52793250	R25TN3TN79Z7KK	068984509X	490413973	Bear Wants More (The Bear Books)	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Feed that Hungry Bear.....	&quot;When springtime comes,/in his warm winter den/a bear wakes up/very hungry and thin!&quot;  He lumbers outside and begins to look for food, eating the new shoots of grass that have popped up outside his front door.  But that barely begins to satisfy his hunger, and the bear wants more.  Fortunately his woodland friends, Mouse, Hare, and Badger pass by, glad to see him after the long winter, and help him find food... strawberries, clover, and fish in the stream.  But the bear's still hungry and wants more to eat.  &quot;Meanwhile.../back at the big bear's den/wait Gopher and Mole/with Raven and Wren.//  They bake honey cakes./They decorate the lair./It's a springtime party/for their good friend Bear!&quot;  Bear smells the party foods wafting in the air and hurries home to his big surprise party.  But he's eaten so much today, that he's too big to fit into his den and gets stuck in his own front door.  Now with a party inside just waiting to begin, what are Bear and his friends going to do.....  Author, Karma Wilson and illustrator, Jane Chapman are back with a joyous springtime sequel to last year's marvelous Bear Snores On.  Ms Wilson's rhythmic, rhyming text is engaging, and little ones will revel in reading the oft-repeated refrain, &quot;But the bear wants more!&quot;, along with you.  Ms Chapman's bold, bright and expressive artwork is filled with vivid color, eye-catching detail, and endearing characters.  Together word and art usher in the spring with humor and fun.  Bear Wants More is a winner, and a charming, read-aloud, preschool crowd-pleaser that shouldn't be missed.	2003-01-28
1251390:US	52793250	R30JY82PKTLOM5	0670654000	587747449	The Snowy Day	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Magic, Wonder, and Possibilities.....	&quot;One winter morning Peter woke up and looked out the window.  Snow had fallen during the night.  It covered everthing as far as he could see...&quot;  Peter can't wait to jump into his snowsuit and run outside.  There are footprints to make and watch as he walks along, snowmen to build, and angels to carve into the snow with his arms and legs.  There are mountains of heaping snow to climb and then slide down, again and again, snowballs to pack, and snowball fights among the bigger kids to watch.  And after a long cold, wonderful day outside, there are warm and cozy snow dreams to dream until he wakes the next morning to another fun-filled snowy day.....  Originally published in 1963, Ezra Jack Keats' The Snowy Day, is still as fresh and inviting today, as it was forty years ago.  Mr Keats' gentle, engaging text captures the essence of the child in all of us on a snowy day, and is complemented by his simple, expressive and evocative, award winning illustrations.  Together, word and art brings all the wonder, magic, and imaginative possibilities of a big snowfall to life on the page.  Perfect for preschoolers, The Snowy Day is a captivating treasure, to read and share now with friends and family and future generations in the years to come.  A MUST for all home libraries, this is a timeless classic that shouldn't be missed.	2003-01-27
1252923:US	52793250	R2KQ30L9FZ30LG	0374360901	36050663	Potch & Polly	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Love, Loss, and Slapstick	&quot;When Potch was born, there was an angel with a clown's face hovering over the bed.  So Potch came into the world laughing...&quot;  He was a happy kid, who turned into an even happier adult.  Then one night he met the not so lovely, Polly Pumpernickel, at a masquerade ball.  &quot;He was so smitten, he did a double backflip.  A moment later the two were dancing...  What an evening!  The crowd stared as the pair continued to prance and pirouette, to weave and whirl.  Polly thought Potch might be the daffy darling of her daily dreams, the one missing piece of her pie.  Unfortunately, Potch's timing was off when he tossed the long and lanky Polly into the air, and she landed, with a huge splash, in the fountain.  Now, how was he going to win back his one and only, true love.....  William Steig's witty and engaging text is rich in tongue twisting alliteration, wordplay and wry humor.  But it's Jon Agee's bold, bright, and busy cartoon illustrations, filled with playful and hilarious slapstick scenes and marvelous sound effects, that really steal the show.  Kids will revel in all the outrageous dating catastrophes as they linger and explore each entertaining page.  With a happily-ever-after ending to set everything right, Potch &amp; Polly is a captivating, fun-filled, manic romp that begs to be read aloud and shared, and is sure to become an instant favorite at your house.	2003-01-25
1253146:US	52793250	R3OYG3U9S7C1NS	0152045716	582320919	The Little Red Lighthouse and the Great Gray Bridge	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A Timeless Classic.....	&quot;Once upon a time a little lighthouse was built on a sharp point of the shore by the Hudson River.  It was round and fat and red.  It was fat and red and jolly.  And it was VERY, VERY PROUD.  Behind it lay New York City where the people lived...&quot;  The little red lighthouse was very quiet by day, watching all the ships and people traveling up and down the river.  But by night, it was very busy flashing its lights and ringing its bell to keep the ships away from the rocks and danger.  &quot;It felt big and useful and important.  What would the boats do without me? it thought.&quot;  Then one day, everything began to change.  Workmen came and dug and dug.  Enormous steel girders began to rise over the little lighthouse, and huge, heavy cables were strung between the girders.  A great gray bridge grew overhead, spanning the river from shore to shore.  It made the little lighthouse feel very small and unimportant.....  Originally published in 1942, award winning author Hildegarde Swift's, The Little Red Lighthouse And The Great Gray Bridge is as heartwarming and entertaining today, as it was over sixty years ago.  Her engaging text, with its happily-ever-after ending, is complemented by Lynd Ward's charming, playful, and expressive illustrations, and together word and art send a simple message that won't be lost on young children...size doesn't equal importance.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, The Little Red Lighthouse And The Great Gray Bridge includes a fascinating afterword on the back cover about the history of the real lighthouse and bridge, portrayed in this story, to further enlighten.  This is a timeless classic, to read and share now with friends and family, and future generations in the years to come.  &quot;And now beside the great beacon of the bridge the small beam of the lighthouse still flashes.  Beside the towering gray bridge the lighthouse still bravely stands.  Though it knows now that it is little, it is still VERY, VERY PROUD.  And every day the people who go up Riverside Drive in New York City turn to look at it.  For there they both are-the great gray bridge and the little red lighthouse.  If you don't believe it, go see for yourselves!&quot;he people who go up Riverside Drive in New York City turn to look at it.  For there they both are-the great gray bridge and the little red lighthouse.  If you don't believe it, go see for yourselves!&quot;	2003-01-25
1255315:US	52793250	R24WBUW2UWD3G6	0374313822	671228212	Close Your Eyes	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Perfect Bedtime Story.....	&quot;The little tiger lay on his back in the tall grass.  &quot;Close your eyes, little tiger,&quot; said his mother, &quot;and go to sleep.&quot;  But the little tiger didn't want to sleep.  &quot;If I close my eyes,&quot; he said, &quot;I can't see the sky...&quot;  So begins author, Kate Banks, and illustrator Georg Hallensleben's third bedtime story collaboration, and this dynamic duo justs gets better with each book.  Little tiger has all kinds of excuses for not closing his eyes.  He won't be able to see the sky, or the trees, or the bird with blue feathers.  When he closes his eyes, the world is dark, and he's afraid.  But his patient mother is there with just the right reassuring words, telling him about the wonderful places he'll go in his dreams.  And when he wakes up, she reminds him, his dreams will be gone, but she will be right there, cuddled next to him.....  Ms Banks gentle, lyrical text is warm and engaging, and filled with imagery and magic.  Mr Hallensleben's evocative, bold and bright lush jungle scenes dazzle with vivid color and expression.  Together word and art create a soothing and captivating bedtime story preschoolers will beg to read, night after night.  Like their other nightime books, And If The Moon Could Talk and The Night Worker, Close Your Eyes is a winner that shouldn't be missed.	2003-01-23
1256622:US	52793250	R377Y6GP1L2H05	0735817022	414829135	Swan Lake	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Magical Retelling.....	&quot;Once upon a time, all you needed was the right mix of enough evil and a good spell to transform a person into a tree, a rock, or even an animal.  In those days, there lived a prince...&quot;  So begins award winning author and illustrator, Lisbeth Zwerger's, captivating retelling of Tchaikovsky's, Swan Lake.  Her eloquent prose is filled with imagery and magic, and enhanced by evocative illustrations in soft, dreamy hues.  Together word and art dazzle, and bring the beautiful story of love found and lost, to life on the page.  Unlike the beloved and familiar ballet, Ms Zwerger gives her adaptation an upbeat, happily-ever-after ending.  As she explains in her Author's Note, Tchaikovsky wrote the original fairy tale dance in 1871 as a gift to his sister's children.  It retained the &quot;love conquers all&quot; happy ending when he premiered his full length ballet six years later.  It wasn't until after his death, sixteen years later, that the story was reworked by his brother and given the now famous tragic ending.  Perfect for youngsters 7 and older, Swan Lake is both an engaging, read aloud fairy tale, and a marvelous introduction to the wonders of ballet, that should whet the appetite and send you looking for a recording and performance.	2003-01-22
1258328:US	52793250	R3J9NSUYIGMNF5	1930252986	79132223	Puppet Child	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Powerful and Compelling.....	Rachel Belmore thought she had the perfect life.  She was married to the very handsome and charismatic surgeon, Wes Belmore, and was living in the lap of luxury on New York City's Fifth Avenue.  She loved her high powered job with a world famous fashion magazine, and as if that were not enough, all her dreams had come true with the birth of their beautiful baby daughter, Ellie.  But that perfect world exploded and crumbled in just seconds, the night she discovered her husband molesting Ellie in her crib.  For three years, now, Rachel's been fighting a protracted legal battle in a system that almost always seems stacked against her, bent on protecting and restoring the reputation of Wes, not saving her young daughter's life.....  From the harrowing prologue to the final climactic chapter, Talia Carner's stunning and well researched, debut novel tells a tense and powerful story in excrutiating and vivid detail.  Her intricate plot is eloquently written, filled with well developed, true to life, intriguing characters, and touching, often painful, riveting scenes.  Ms Carner indepth knowledge and expertise in child abuse and the flawed, family court legal system adds real credibility to her story and makes this novel stand out.  Puppet Child examines the uncomfortable truths about child custody and our ability, within the law, to protect children from further abuse.  This is a marvelous and compelling debut that shouldn't be missed.  Kudos to Ms Carner!	2003-01-21
1266454:US	52793250	R3GNMX4PX4BV0	0743202708	785313244	Fat Ollie's Book: A Novel of the 87th Precinct	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Go Get 'em Ollie.....	Who shot city councilman, Lester Henderson, as he practiced crossing the stage to the podium, waving and smiling, follow spot glowing, during a rehearsal at Martin Luther King Memorial Hall, for his mayoral candidacy announcement that evening?  As first on the scene, all around offensive, foul mouthed and bigoted Detective Oliver Wendell Weeks catches the case and begins to run with it, interviewing witnesses, barking obnoxious orders, and getting a sense of the scene and what had just happened there.  Ollie's feeling pretty pumped, grabbing a high profile, headline making murder case.  That is, until he returns to his vehicle and finds the only copy of his just completed first novel, Report To The Commissioner, missing.  It seems that while he was inside the hall working one crime scene, someone outside was creating another.  Some low-life broke into his car and stole all thirty-six pages of his soon to be bestseller masterpiece.  And to complicate matters, the not-too-bright thief doesn't even realize he's holding a novel.  He thinks he's just found his ticket to the good life;  a police report detailing a soon to be bust involving 2.7 million worth of diamonds.....  Award winning, master storyteller, Ed McBain, finally gives one of his most colorful and entertaining characters a book, actually two books, of his own.  This is a police procedural that has it all... seemingly unrelated, complex, and intriguing story lines that are deftly woven together, creating a stunning climax and satisfying ending;  clever, vivid, often laugh-out-loud scenes, and brilliant, meaty characterizations including the ever quirky and engaging cast from the 87th precinct.  But it's Mr McBain's smart, crisp, humorous writing, and witty and irreverent dialogue and asides that make this, as well as all his novels, stand out and sparkle, and once you begin reading, be prepared to finish Fat Ollie's Book in one sitting.  This is Ed McBain at his very best and no one in the genre does it better.  Make sure you put Fat Ollie at the top of your &quot;must read&quot; list and enjoy!	2003-01-15
1278846:US	52793250	R1Z98RT8W897DG	0451207300	243991507	Final Epidemic:: A Novel of Medical Suspense	Books	5	12	12	N	N	One Fabulous Roller Coaster of a Thriller.....	It all started in Fort Walton Beach, Florida when Dr Carol Mayer's emergency room began to fill up with tourists complaining of cold and flu-like symptoms.  Within hours, it was obvious this was no summer cold or flu.  The sick were getting worse by the minute, spiking high fevers, and developing severe respiratory complications, before keeling over and dying a horrible, gruesome death.  As the CDC heads to Florida, and the wheels of government begin turning, former CIA bioterrorism expert, Beck Casey, is called back inside for a mission he can't refuse.  Washington is already aware of this deadly virus, even the almost impossible circumstances of where it came from and what it can do, and feel Beck's expertise is their best weapon against what could turn out to be a pandemic of unrivaled proportion.  As the virus begins to spread worldwide, cities are quarantined, hysteria mounts, law and order collapses, and citizens begin to act irrationally.  Beck Casey circles the globe, forming alliances and meeting with some of our worst enemies to stop this scourge and save the human race, and this mission has become very personal.  His only daughter, he learns, is vacationing at ground zero, Fort Walton Beach.....  Tighten your seatbelt, Earl Merkel is about to take you on the roller coaster ride of your life with his marvelous debut novel, Final Epidemic.  This is a thriller that has it all... a fast paced plot filled with vivid and riveting scenes, engaging writing that pulls you into the story and never lets go, and a diverse and interesting cast of well drawn characters.  But it's Mr Merkel's indepth, detailed research and knowledge in the areas of biological warfare, epidemics, and pandemics that make this novel stand out and dazzle, and once you begin reading, be prepared to finish this book in one sitting.  And as he weaves his intriguing story lines toward their stunning climax, you'll be on the edge of your seat, waiting to see if the world as we now know it will continue to exist.  Final Epidemic has the one thing all great thrillers need to be a great success... plausibility.  Make sure you put this novel at the top of your &quot;must read&quot; list.  You won't be disappointed.	2003-01-06
1288514:US	52793250	R2VDWMI2M1F28P	0786710853	332353767	What You Wish For (Otto Penzler Books)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Tight, Tense, and Compelling.....	NYPD captain, Julia Brennan, commanding officer of the district attorney's sex crime unit, knew the crime scene would be bad.  The very rich and elderly, Adeline Rose, was found stabbed, slashed and bloody in her upper east side bedroom;  at first glance, a burglary gone very wrong.  But, Julia realizes almost immediately that this was no burglary.  The motive for the crime was money, plain and simple, and within twenty-four hours she has three good suspects pinned down.  At the same time, her lover and ex-undercover cop, Peter Foley, is following a new and important lead of his own.  He has spent the last five years trying to find his kidnapped daughter, Patti, in the seedy and desperate underworld of pedophiles and child pornography.  It looks like he's finally found the proof he's been looking for... that Patti, now eleven, is still alive, and possibly close by.....  David Cray brings back two of his most engaging characters, as he weaves these two intriguing and seemingly unrelated story lines toward their stunning conclusion, in this compelling and satisfying sequel to last year's Little Girl Blue.  This is a thriller that has it all... a tight, tense, and suspenseful story line filled with vivid and riveting scenes, crisp and entertaining writing, and brilliant characterizations.  But it's Mr Cray's indepth research and great attention to detail that really adds credibility to the story, and by the time you've finished the first chapter, you'll be hooked for sure.  For those new to master storyteller, David Cray, make sure you go back and read his earlier novels, Bad Lawyer and Little Girl Blue.  For those who are already fans, What You Wish For is about to keep you up reading all night.	2002-12-30
1298683:US	52793250	R3U9G67KSZLYX0	068984381X	127423911	Everything I Know About Monsters : A Collection of Made-up Facts, Educated Guesses, and Silly Pictures about Creatures of Creepiness	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Monster of a Good Time.....	Even though Tom Lichtenheld tells the reader on the first page of this book, in no uncertain terms, that there really are no such things as monsters... &quot;No monsters, ever, nowhere, nohow&quot;, he also makes it clear that &quot;monsters DO exist in our imaginations.&quot;  And since he's considered an expert storyteller with an oversized, vivid imagination, he's done us the honor of writing the quintessential book using made-up facts and best guesses about monsters.  From under-the-bed monsters, closet monsters, basement and attic monsters, to man-made monsters, robots, and even aliens, find out what they eat, where they live, what they do, how they think, and even how much light it takes to keep a monster away.  Mr Lichtenheld's easy to read and hilarious text is entertaining, and only outdone by his bold, bright, and busy illustrations.  Each captivating two page spread is chock full of creative fun facts, engaging jokes, clever cartoons, and funny captions, and youngsters will enjoy poring over every inch of each fun-filled page.  Perfect for kids 6-10, Everything I Know About Monsters is a silly, interactive, manic, romp no red-blooded monster lover should be without.	2002-12-19
1299105:US	52793250	R1XUMY8FXCCYZE	0316609404	196453363	Get Red! An Adventure in Color	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Adventures in Red.....	As our young narrator tells us, he's got a huge problem.  He has a report due about the planet Mars, you know the RED planet, and his RED crayon has run away.  They've had a lot good times together this year, learned lots of cool RED things, and done a few special RED projects, but now, when he really needs him the most, that RED crayon has just up and disappeared.  What's a guy to do?  He could try coloring Mars purple.  Purple's almost like red, and maybe no one will notice.....  Tony Porto and partners, Mitch Rice and Glenn Deutsch offer a clever and entertaining tribute to the color red.  Their engaging text, written in an easy to read, conversational style, is filled with humor and marvelous red fun facts and trivia.  The bold, bright, and busy illustrations, rich in playful details and wit, add to all the fun.  Perfect for emerging readers or as a story time crowd pleaser, Get Red! is a manic, fun-filled romp, and we can only hope, the beginning of a new and colorful series.	2002-12-19
1299397:US	52793250	R3JUBSZD76TG3R	0385729111	583567383	Dog Eared	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sweet and Engaging.....	&quot;I was walking home the other day when a large dog pushed into me and growled, &quot;Out of my way, Big Ears!&quot;  Big Ears? I thought.  Surely not.  But doubt crept into my mind...&quot;  Poor Otis, the insult has really shaken his confidence.  Now he can't stop looking at himself in shop windows.  Are his ears really that big?  That bully's name calling has changed everything.  Otis doesn't want to play with his buddy, Max, or chase cats.  He's lost his appetite, and no matter how many new &quot;ear-dos&quot; he tries out to minimize their size, nothing works.  But fortunately, his owner understands the problem.  &quot;She snuggled next to me and wrapped one of my ears around her face.  &quot;I love your large, silky, fabulous ears, Otis,&quot; she whispered, and kissed the one that was keeping her warm...&quot;  Amanda Harvey's sensitive and heartwarming story has a simple message that won't be lost on even the youngest reader.  Her entertaining text is engaging.  But it's the playful and evocative illustrations, filled with gentle humor, marvelous facial expressions, and eye-catching detail that really make this picture book stand out and sparkle, and little ones will revel in the delightful twist at the end as Otis' confidence blooms.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Dog Eared is an unlifting story that celebrates our differences, and shouldn't be missed.	2002-12-19
1301357:US	52793250	R2UVAGFRB6MU4N	0590478834	826922058	Rap a Tap Tap: Here's Bojangles--Think of That! (Coretta Scott King Illustrator Honor Books)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Tribute to the Greatest Tap Dancer of All Time.....	As Leo and Diane Dillon tell the reader in their illuminating Afterword:  &quot;Bill &quot;Bojangles&quot; Robinson (1878-1949) is know as the greatest tap dancer of all time.  His fame has reached mythic proportions.  He had charm and charisma and, it was said &quot;He talked with his feet.&quot;  His rhythms were so intricate and fast it was impossible for other dancers to repeat some of them...&quot;  The Dillon's introduce a whole new generation to the sheer joy of Mr Bojangles, a dancer who made &quot;art with his feet&quot; in this deceptively simple and creative picture book biographical sketch.  Their short rhyming text with its engaging and repetitive &quot;Rap a tap tap-think of that!&quot; is filled with rhythm and motion.  But it's their clever, bold, bright, and elegant illustrations that make this book stand out and sparkle, and youngsters will feel the passion and energy with each page turn as they watch Bojangles almost dance off the pages.  Perfect for little ones 3-7, Rap A Tap Tap is a playful and captivating, interactive celebration of both Bill Robinson and tap dance...Rap a tap tap-think of that!	2002-12-17
1301773:US	52793250	R303XQ0KJ12RVX	0316365130	718101249	Top of the World	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another Porcine Grand Adventure.....	When Puddle got up that morning, Toot was already gone.  &quot;Puds, gone for a walk.  Be back soon. T&quot;  Only Toot didn't come home that morning, or afternoon, and by dinner, Puddle had decided it was time to go out and search for him.  Thinking just like his best friend, Puddle soon finds himself at the airport on a plane to Provence.  &quot;Now that was one place Toot had never been.&quot;  In no time, the two old friends find each other, and after having a wonderful time in the French countryside, decide to travel on to Nepal.  &quot;They have the highest mountain in the world there...&quot;  Holly Hobbie takes the reader on another heartwarming and entertaining adventure starring her endearing pint-sized piglets, Toot and Puddle.  Ms Hobbie's gentle and witty text is engaging, but it's her sweet and captivating artwork, filled with bright colors, warm humor and dazzling, playful details, that really steals the show.  Youngsters 3-7, who've enjoyed the previous books in this series, will revel in this latest adventure.  Toot &amp; Puddle:  Top Of The World begs to be read aloud and shared, and is a fun-filled, magical story that shouldn't be missed.	2002-12-17
1302405:US	52793250	R30O57FKREDGKO	0802788505	813231566	The Signers: The 56 Stories Behind the Declaration of Independence	Books	5	43	45	N	N	A Tribute to 56 Heroes.....	As Dennis Brindell Fradin tells us in his illuminating introduction:  &quot;...The signers of the Declaration, rather than those who voted for independence, have long been honored as the nation's founders.  That is because, by placing their names on the Declaration, they announced to the world their willingness to risk everything for the cause of independence.  The British targeted the fifty-six signers for special punishment.  The homes of twelve signers were burned, and nearly twenty of them lost much of what they owned.  According to some estimates, nine signers died as a result of hardships they suffered during the Revolution.  Yet not one signer changed his stance on independence.  All of them kept the promise they had made in the Declaration of Independence-that they would stake their &quot;Lives...Fortunes, and...Sacred Honor&quot; on their country's cause.&quot;  Meet America's first fifty-six heroes whose belief in independence was so strong, each was willing to risk everything for freedom.  Mr Fradin cleverly divides this book into thirteen sections, one for each colony, and begins each chapter by first discussing the background and history of the colony, before detailing the life of each signer.  Each fascinating biographical sketch includes details about their lives, both before and after they signed the Declaration, and the contributions each made to America's independence.  Mr Fradin's easy to read and intriguing text, engages, and is enhanced by illustrator, Michael McCurdy's evocative artwork.  Together, word and art inspires, and brings the stories of these brave men to life on the page.  Perfect for youngsters 10 and older, The Signers celebrates the triumph of the human spirit, and includes a readable copy of the Declaration of Independence, an Afterword, Bibliography, and Index to augment lessons and further enlighten.  This is non-fiction at its very best, and definitely a living history lesson that shouldn't be missed.  &quot;Independence forever!&quot;	2002-12-16
1306800:US	52793250	R3TFERXJ55P7KH	0761316825	62629281	Action Jackson (Single Titles)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Meet Jackson Pollack.....	Award winning authors, Jan Greenberg and Sandra Jordan introduce a whole new generation to the brillance of painter, Jackson Pollock as they focus on just two months in the artist's life, and the creation of one of his most famous paintings, No. 1, 1950 (Lavender Mist).  Based on firsthand accounts from friends and family, and often using the painter's own words and quotes, this well researched and enlightening picture book biography lets the reader get into Pollock's head, hear his thoughts, feel his energy and joy as he works, and actually peek over his shoulder as he paints.  &quot;An athlete with a paintbrush, he uses his whole body to make the painting.  Layers build with each gesture, new colors emerging, blending, and disappearing into the wet surface.  He swoops and leaps like a dancer, paint trailing from a brush that doesn't touch the canvas...&quot;  Their eloquent and lyrical prose is engaging and complemented by Robert Andrew Parker's bold, bright, and busy watercolors.  Together word and art paint a dazzling and evocative portrait of the artist, his work, and his times.  &quot;Some people will be shocked when they see what he has created.  Some Angry.  Some confused.  Some excited.  Some filled with a happiness they can hardly explain.  But everyone will agree- Jackson Pollock is doing something original, painting in a way that no one has ever seen before...&quot;  Perfect for youngsters 7-11, Action Jackson includes a short biographical sketch at the end to augment the story and fascinating notes and sources about his life and paintings.  This is non-fiction at its very best.  Kudos to Greenberg, Jordan, and Parker	2002-12-12
1308412:US	52793250	R2TQOXJZ7UK1G0	0439110165	694113410	Dog Food (PLAY WITH YOUR FOOD, 5)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Doggone Good.....	Saxton Freymann and Joost Elffers are playing with their food again, and you'll never look at fruits and vegetables in quite the same way.  After great success with How Are You Peeling, One Lonely Sea Horse, and Gus and Button, Elffers and Freymann have moved on to the dog house with a kennel full of edible surprises.  Each bright and fun-filled page features doggy phrases and expressions... dog tired, let sleeping dogs lie, puppy love, doggy bag, dog eat dog, dog tag... accompanied by creatively constructed canines made entirely from fruits and vegetables.  Take a look at &quot;dog bowl&quot; as an expressive, red radish dog complete with black olive ball on his paw gets ready to knock down banana pins, or &quot;chilly dog&quot; where a shivering hound made from a potato stands next to a mushroom snowman.  With a marvelous parade of the entire canine cast on the endpapers, and a list of ingredients included on the back cover, Dog Food is a captivating and humorous feast for the eyes, and just perfect for dog lovers of all ages.	2002-12-11
1309357:US	52793250	RW4MSW236B381	061813347X	376748403	To Fly: The Story of the Wright Brothers	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fascination with Flying.....	Wendie Old introduces Orville and Wilbur Wright, two bicycle repairmen from Dayton, Ohio, who dreamed of leaving the ground behind and soaring through the sky.  From experiments with kites and gliders to the first self-propelled flying machine, the Wright brothers used ingenuity and imagination to do something no scientist had ever been able to master, fly a heavier-than-air machine.....  Ms Old's easy to read and engaging text traces the lives, work, disappointments, and triumphs of these two unassuming dreamers, and her simple scientific explanations of things like wind resistance, drag, and air pressure bring the mysteries of flight to life in a simple and informative way.  Robert Andrew Parker's stunning and evocative pen and water-color illustrations enhance the story with drama and wit, and imaginations will soar as kids watch the brothers' ideas come to life and take off.  Perfect for youngsters 7-11, To Fly is an inspiring and intriguing biography that's sure to whet the appetite of young scientists and dreamers everywhere.  &quot;Watch buzzards,/Flying kites,/Lazy, crazy boys/The Wrights.  They // Tried to fly/Just like a bird/Foolish dreamers/Strange.  Absurd.  We // Scoffed and scorned/Their dreams of flight/But we were wrong/And they were Wright. (Beverly McLoughland)&quot;	2002-12-11
1310826:US	52793250	R1N90366SBLZDT	0525468803	807829299	Mouse, Mole, and the Falling Star	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Friends Forever....	&quot;Mouse and Mole were the best of friends.  They had fun together.  They shared everything.  They trusted each other completely, even with their deepest secrets.  When one was sad or not feeling well, the other was always there to comfort him.  That's how much they loved each other...&quot;  All was perfect, until the night they saw the falling star shoot across the sky.  Then jealousy and suspicion raised its ugly head as the two good friends began to squabble over who the star belonged to, who saw it first, who would find it, and whose wish would come true.  &quot;The days rolled by, and summer was nearly over...&quot;  Mouse and Mole were sad and lonely.  They missed each other and all the good times they had together.....  A.H. Benjamin's gentle text is complemented by John Bendall-Brunello's charming  and engaging illustrations, and together word and art send a simple message about the importance of friendship that won't be lost on even the youngest readers.  With a clever, satisfying, happily-ever-after ending to set everything right again, Mouse, Mole, And The Falling Star is a sweet and heartwarming preschool crowd pleaser.	2002-12-10
1311045:US	52793250	R6W52SIK5OP1O	0689833415	397190270	Micawber	Books	5	3	4	N	N	For the Love of Art.....	&quot;One Sunday in springtime, Micawber arose/From his Central Park Carousel nest./He straightened his whiskers and polished his nose/And set off for the place he loved best...&quot;  The Metropolitan Museum of Art, where day in and day out, he gazes, lovingly, at the masters through the windows and skylights.  One day he watches a student copy a painting.  &quot;He noted the stroke of each brush she'd extend,/The rare concentration and care she'd expend./She'd become his unwitting and unknowing friend/By the time the day started to fade...&quot;  So he stows away in her paint box, and that night as the young artist sleeps, Micawber begins to paint, discovering the wonders of color.  &quot;He returned thirty times by the following fall,/And the paintings poured forth like a geyser./He fastened them all to his living-room wall,/And the woman was never the wiser...&quot;  The dynamic team of John Lithgow and C.F. Payne, who brought us the joys of music-making in The Remarkable Farkle McBride, are back to introduce children to the wonders of art and creativity.  Mr Lithgow's clever, exuberant text, is filled with rhyme, rhythm, energy, and wordplay, and just begs to be read aloud by an enthusiastic storyteller.  Mr Payne's paint-splattered, engaging illustrations help bring this innovative story to life with rich color, marvelous facial expressions and eye-catching details.  Together word and art open the world of art appreciation to youngsters 4-8, using an endearing and captivating little squirrel.  &quot;And if you should visit the old Carousel,/Look up at its uppermost part./Inside, although nobody ever could tell,/A talented squirrel continues to dwell./If you try, you can picture it, clear as a bell:/MICAWBER'S MUSEUM OF ART.&quot;	2002-12-09
1312226:US	52793250	R1X7JLV9JDJRUO	0689843275	678187677	My Big Brother	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Meet a Modern Day Hero.....	&quot;This is my big brother.  Everyone makes a fuss over how big I am, but my brother is REALLY big...&quot;  So begins the unseen narrator, as she discusses the merits of her wonderful big brother.  As far as she's concerned he's amazing, talented, and can do just about any and every thing.  She knows all this because she watches him all day long.  He's her superhero... &quot;I love my big brother, and he loves me.&quot;  Valorie Fisher's debut children's book is filled with sibling love, wonder, and whimsy as it looks at life through the eyes of a baby.  Her simple, spare text sets the stage, but it's the stunning and evocative, bold and playful photographs that really steal the show, and bring this special relationship to life.  Perfect for preschoolers, My Big Brother is a joyous, fun-filled celebration of siblings that shows that life just gets better for everyone in the family with each new addition.	2002-12-08
1312495:US	52793250	R24IMSUXMAJZMW	0743229061	746535359	Absolute Certainty: A Crime Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Compelling, Intriguing...A Marvelous Debut.....	Barnstable County, Assistant District Attorney, Marty Nickerson asked only three things of the jury.  First, examine every exhibit carefully.  Second, listen and absorb all the testimony given during the trial.  And third, use your own gut, your common sense and judgement when making your decision.  &quot;We impaneled seven men and five women.  All of them promised.  And I believe they kept their promises.  It was the criminal justice system that failed...&quot;  Marty believed in the guilt of Manuel Rodriguez.  He was accused of brutally murdering a twenty year old college student exactly one year ago on Memorial Day;  a young man with a bright and promising future ahead of him.  Putting Rodriguez behind bars for the rest of his life let her speak for the victim, and validated the criminal justice system.  But when an eerily similar murder happens this Memorial Day, Marty begins to question the impossible, whether Rodriguez was wrongly convicted.  Could there be a serial killer on the loose on Cape Cod?  But when a third murdered teenage boy is found just a week later, Marty deliberately ignores the orders of her ambitious boss to stay away from the case, and puts her job and the integrity of the District Attorney's office on the line to find the truth.....  Newcomer, Rose Connors, makes a spectacular debut with this compelling and suspenseful legal thriller.  Her well paced story line is tight and tense, and filled with well-drawn characters, intriguing twists, and vivid and riveting courtroom scenes.  Ms Connors indepth knowledge and expertise in the workings of the D.A.'s office, the courtroom, and Cape Cod, add real credibility to the story and bring it to life on the page.  With a stunning climax and very satisfying ending that ties up all the loose ends, Absolute Certainty is a winner, and should find itself at the very top of all legal thriller lovers' &quot;must read&quot; lists.	2002-12-08
1317532:US	52793250	R20G0SV7HR3NWT	0525469044	269062762	Christmas City: A Look Again Book	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Holiday Treasure Hunt.....	Michael Garland is back with a holiday sequel to last years innovative, Mystery Mansion.  Come join Tommy as his Aunt Jeanne sends him on another creative and inventive treasure hunt.  It's Christmas Eve when the invitation arrives telling Tommy to hop into the waiting cab outside his door, and in no time he's soaring through the air on his way to Christmas City.  But where is Aunt Jeanne?  Follow the cleverly worded, rhyming clues to find her, and along the way solve puzzles and collect the more than two hundred holiday items, some hidden, some in plain sight, including snowmen, angels, reindeer, elves, and candycanes, all the characters from the song, The Twelve Days Of Christmas,  Santa's reindeer, holiday greetings in ten different languages, and a series of letters that when arranged, spell out a special message.  Mr Garland's bold, bright, and busy computer generated artwork is engaging, and sparkles with energy, dazzling color, intricate, eye-catching detail and playful humor.  Imaginations will soar as youngsters 6 and older pore over the pages, and revel in all the fun-filled magic.  Christmas City offers hours of interactive entertainment, and sends kids on an imaginative, holiday fantasy adventure of a lifetime.	2002-12-04
1318766:US	52793250	RGBNVGLD8ZPS9	0439320925	742142101	Merry Christmas, Big Hungry Bear!	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Joys of Sharing and Caring.....	&quot;Hello, little Mouse.  I see you're ready for Christmas...&quot;  And so he is in his warm and cozy home surrounded by colorful garlands, brightly wrapped presents, and a beautifully decorated Christmas tree.  The unseen narrator continues his patter:  &quot;But, little Mouse, what about the big, hungry Bear in the cold, dark cave at the top of the hill?  Ohhh, how that Bear loves Christmas presents!&quot;  Now little Mouse is worried.  He knows that big, hungry Bear never gets any gifts, not even from Santa, and would do just about anything to get Christmas presents.  So he goes to work barricading and booby-trapping his home to protect his wonderful stash.  But then he thinks about that big, hungry Bear, all alone in his cold, dark cave, and he has a change of heart.....  Don and Audrey Wood bring back one of their most endearing characters in this captivating holiday sequel to their classic, The Little Mouse, The Red Ripe Strawberry, And The Big Hungry Bear.  Their simple, spare text is charming and engaging, but the real story is told in the vibrant and expressive illustrations.  Each two page spread is filled with dazzling color, playful humor, and vivid, eye-catching detail.  Together word and art ring in the holiday season with the joy of sharing and friendship.  Perfect for preschoolers, Merry Christmas, Big Hungry Bear! is a heartwarming, fun-filled romp that shouldn't be missed.	2002-12-03
1319842:US	52793250	R3PIV4OWRAVE2M	0312306326	631084691	Visions of Sugar Plums: A Stephanie Plum Holiday Novel (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Holiday Fantasy Fun.....	Poor Stephanie...four days 'til Christmas and there's not a sign of it anywhere in her drab little apartment.  No tree, no decorations, no holiday music, and no presents in colorful wrapping paper.  In fact, she hasn't given Christmas a thought.  Right now, she's sitting in her kitchen stewing over her latest bounty hunter problem, and she's in a real bah humbug mood.  But all that's about to change as she looks up and finds a hunk of a guy, blond ponytail, tight jeans, and boots, standing right there in front of her.....  It's Christmastime in the Burg, and Janet Evanovich brings her delightfully zany little holiday fantasy to life with humor and wit.  The gang's all here and up to their usual fun-filled, manic antics, and things are really rocking and rolling over at the Plum household.  Sister Valerie has a crisis, Grandma has a new boyfriend, and of course there's Christmas dinner to survive.  Add to that an elusive old toymaker who's jumped bail, a posse of nasty elves, the usual car problems, tree trouble, and Joe Morelli, and you have the makings of an engaging holiday romp as only Ms Evanovich could envision.  So put up your feet after a long day of fighting crowds and power shopping and give yourself a little treat, as you let Stephanie Plum and company raise your spirits.  Visions Of Sugar Plums is a lot better than fruit cake!	2002-12-02
1320362:US	52793250	R2O6OYIPMLGZGE	0399149155	249229548	Q is for Quarry: A Kinsey Millhone Novel	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Q is a Winner.....	It was eighteen years ago that officers Stacey Oliphant and Con Dolan, out on a morning hunting trip, found the decomposing body near the quarry.  She was young, white, bound, and stabbed multiple times, and then her throat was slashed.  She'd never been identified, her murderer never brought to justice, and the unsolved case has haunted Oliphant and Dolan all these many years.  Now, old and sick, and at the end of their respective careers, they want one more shot at solving this Jane Doe homicide, and decide to enlist the help of Santa Teresa private detective, Kinsey Millhone.  After hearing the whole story, and reading over the old murder book, Kinsey has to admit she's hooked, packs her duffle, and joins this &quot;odd couple&quot; on what turns out to be quite an intriguing and ultimately dangerous adventure in search of the truth.....  Inspired by a still unsolved murder in Santa Barbara County over thirty years ago, Sue Grafton weaves a compelling and suspenseful story.  Her well paced plot is filled with clever twists and turns, vivid, laugh-out-loud scenes, and witty and irreverent dialogue.  But it's Ms Grafton's brilliant characterizations and delicious descriptions that really make this novel stand out and sparkle, and no one does it better.  Q Is For Quarry is the seventeenth mystery in this marvelous alphabet series, and definitely one of the strongest entries.  If you're new to Kinsey and company, begin at the beginning with A Is For Alibi and read them all.  If you're already a fan, Q is a very satisfying and engaging read that should find itself at the top of your &quot;must read&quot; list.	2002-12-02
1321486:US	52793250	R1CPMC5MD18FE2	0399149295	41838335	Blood Orchid (Holly Barker No. 3)	Books	1	14	14	N	N	Weak and Predictable......	Orchid Beach, Florida Police Chief, Holly Barker, is on the job as, once again, murder and mayhem visit what should be a quiet and peaceful little seaside town.  It appears that someone is trying to manipulate the bidding of Florida prime real estate development by, literally, killing off the competition.  The first suspicious deal, Blood Orchid Estates, happens to be in Holly's own backyard.  She's on the case, driving from one end of the sunshine state to the other, tracking down leads, shooting bad guys, and working with a secretive, and of course, hunk of an FBI agent, Grant Early.  In no time, she's outmaneuvered the feds and uncovered an international plot that includes drugs, money laundering, mobsters, and contract killers.....  Stuart Woods is back with the third installment of his Holly Barker novels, and unfortunately, this is a series that goes downhill with each new entry.  The story line, though at times entertaining and action-packed, is silly, weak, and predictable, and it's a wonder that it takes Holly and the FBI over two hundred pages to figure out what's going on when it takes the reader less than fifty.  Blood Orchid bills itself as a thriller, but the writing is neither suspenseful nor compelling, and the tension never builds.  The dialogue is inane and rarely rings true, and Mr Wood's poorly drawn players are all stereotypical cartoon characters, lacking depth, motivation, and most human qualities.  Add to that a ridiculous, almost comical climax to finish things off, and you have the makings of a thriller without the thrills.  There are a lot of really good novels out there that shouldn't be missed.  Unfortunately, Blood Orchid isn't one of them.  Don't waste your time.	2002-12-01
1329210:US	52793250	R1G1DJF8Y0XZT0	0805062378	576129172	Runaway Dreidel!	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Spirited Chanukah Romp.....	&quot;'Twas the first night of Chanukah and on the fifth floor,/There was holiday hustling and bustling galore./Papa was shining the silver menorah,/Mama was wrapping a gift for Aunt Dora./Grandma was slicing up two chocolate babkas,/Grandpa was grating potatoes for latkes./Sister was stirring the soup with a ladle,/And I at her feet spun my shiny new dreidel...&quot;  And with that our young narrator's holiday top takes off, spinning, out of control, through the apartment, down the stairs and through the city streets, on out to the country, past farms and valleys, over the ocean and up to the sky, where it becomes a glittering star.....  Leslea Newman's engaging, rollicking, chain of events text is filled with lilting rhyme, rhythm, energy, and joy.  Kyrsten Brooker's clever, sparkling multi-media artwork is bold and busy, and rich in vibrant color, wonderful facial expressions, and humorous, eye-catching detail.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Runaway Dreidel! is a captivating, fun-filled, celebratory romp.  &quot;Happy Chanukah to all, and to all a good night.&quot;	2002-11-24
1331536:US	52793250	R1EBC63X4ONMNO	0439368359	979207179	Scritch Scratch	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Uh-Oh, Itchy Head.....	&quot;One day a tiny insect, no bigger than a freckle, crawled into Ms. Calypso's classroom.  Nobody noticed...&quot;  She took a look around, saw Ms Calypso's &quot;cascading curls,&quot; dove through the air, and landed, making a nice little home for herself and her tiny eggs.  Pretty soon Ms Calypso began to scritch scratch, and soon her entire class was scritching and scratching as the head-lice scampered from head to head to head.  Mr Trout, the principal, sent a note home:  &quot;Please comb special conditioner through your children's hair and make it so slippery that all the head lice slide into the bath water and float away.&quot;  The treatment worked perfectly.  &quot;There was not a single louse in sight.  They were all gone.  Well, all except one!&quot;  Poor Ms Calypso lived alone, and had no one to help her condition and comb, and soon, the whole class was scritching and scratching all over again.  This time Mr Trout sent the note home, and then volunteered to help Ms Calypso with her hair.  They fell in love and got married, and there hasn't been a scritch or a scratch ever since...well at least not in Mrs Trout's room.....  It's hard to believe that anyone could author an appealing story about head-lice infestation, but Miriam Moss and illustrator, Delphine Durand seem to have accomplished the impossible.  Ms Moss' engaging and entertaining text takes the mystery and stigma out of the head-lice issue, as she shows that anyone can be a victim.  Ms Durand's bold, bright, and busy cartoon-like illustrations enhance the story, and are filled will expression, vibrant color, playful humor and eye-catching detail.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Scritch Scratch is a clever, funny romp that takes a lousy topic and makes light of it with fact instead of fiction.	2002-11-22
1332366:US	52793250	R3AFWX06A8I7EL	0618253963	697763125	Zathura	Books	3	20	24	N	N	Lost in Space.....	On the last page of award winning author and illustrator, Chris Van Allsburg's classic, Jumanji, Danny and Walter Budwing are seen running home from the park carrying a board game.  Readers are left wondering what will happen to them.  Will they play the game?  Well, after twenty years Mr Van Allsburg finally answers that question with his latest picture book, Zathura.  Danny opens the box and finds not just the Jumanji board, but another game board at the bottom of the box.  &quot;It showed flying saucers, rockets, and planets in outer space with a path of colored squares leading from Earth to a purple planet called Zathura and back to Earth.  Danny put a token on Earth, then rolled the dice...&quot;  Sound familiar?  Unfortunately, that's the problem with this book.  There's nothing really new here.  Mr Van Allsburg has transplanted his story from the jungle to outer space.  His text is a bit flat and lacks drama and excitement.  It's the intricate and marvelously detailed, black and white artwork that dazzles and makes this book worth a look, and youngsters will want to linger and explore each intriguing illustration before turning the page.  Perfect for kids 4-8, Zathura works better as a stand alone for those who haven't read Jumanji, than as a sequel, and many Jumanji fans looking for a  new and entertaining adventure, may be disappointed by the rehash of the original.	2002-11-21
1332469:US	52793250	R3RSYMIL2Q03K2	0761126368	922942583	Philadelphia Chickens: A Too-Illogical Zoological Musical Revue	Books	5	49	51	N	N	A Marvelous Manic Romp.....	It's a dazzling, illustrated book.  It's a rollicking musical.  It's Sandra Boynton at her very best as she and collaborator, Michael Ford, bring their &quot;imaginary musical revue,&quot; Philadelphia Chickens, to life on your stage.  Open the book as the curtain goes up, and follow along as you listen to an all-star cast on the accompanying CD.  Or meet at the piano to sing and play along, using the words and music in part two of the book.  Ms Boynton's clever lyrics are rich in humor and wit, and complemented by her endearing bold, bright and busy, signature animal illustrations.  Philadephia Chickens is an exuberant, fun-filled, manic romp that engages and captivates, and &quot;youngsters&quot; from 3 to 93 will revel in all the fun.	2002-11-21
1333216:US	52793250	R1XA3LLNI1T07D	0670035858	53212629	Pinocchio: The Boy	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Story Continues.....	&quot;Last week in a nutshell...&quot;  So begins Lane Smith's delightfully manic tale of what happened next.  After a speedy recap of Pinocchio's exploits from the original story, Mr Lane ends his introduction with:  And so, with a wave of her wand, the Blue Fairy granted this wish and turned the wooden puppet Pinocchio into a real boy.  But he had no idea!  That nutty fairy had changed him while he was asleep.&quot;  That belly of the whale incident has left Geppetto pretty sick.  So Pinocchio sets out early the next morning towards beautiful downtown Collodi to buy his dad some chicken soup.  He doesn't know he's a real boy, and no one from his past, Cricket, puppetmaster, shopkeeper, even his own father doesn't seem to recognize him now that he's flesh and blood.  But soon a little girl enters the picture, and that's when all the fun begins.....  Mr Smith's spare and irreverent text is entertaining and engaging.  But it's his bold, bright, and busy collage artwork that really steals the show.  Each stunning illustration is filled with vibrant color, dazzling wit and playful humor, and children will want to stop, linger, and explore before turning the page.  With an appropriate, fairy tale happily-ever-after ending, Pinocchio The Boy is a marvelous visual feast, and an updated, fun-filled romp youngsters 4-8 won't want to miss.	2002-11-20
1334378:US	52793250	R3T4GUF2NG6VKH	0618065547	807217310	Christmas Cricket	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Song of Angels.....	&quot;It was cold in the garden.  Cricket felt small and worthless in the bigness of night...&quot;  He hops up icy steps, under a big door, across sleek floors, into a warm room, &quot;and over to a tall tree with stars clinging to it.&quot;  He hopped onto a branch and began to sing.  And that's when he hears the voices of father and child discussing the songs of angels.  &quot;Did you know that angels sing in the songs of birds, and frogs and people and crickets?&quot; the big voice asked...&quot;  The child didn't know that and neither did Cricket.  &quot;He was small, then.  But not worthless.  What a great discovery!&quot;  Eve Bunting's simple, gentle text is poetic, and complemented by Timothy Bush's stunning and expressive illustrations.  Together word and art celebrate the wonders of the holiday season in a warm and touching way.  Perfect for little ones 3-7, Christmas Cricket is just right for quiet, read aloud cuddling, and is a sweet and lovely story to help ring in the holidays.  &quot;And in his hiding place Cricket rubbed his wings, one against the other for his own joy, and sang and sang, and sang.&quot;	2002-11-19
1335497:US	52793250	R2WMKZ0TGWNM8U	0374324522	303089041	The Forest	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Joy of Discovery.....	&quot;I had always been afraid of the forest, that dark and unknown place at the farthest edge of my little world...&quot;  So begins Claire Nivola's eloquent little story of a mouse who conquers his fear, leaves the safety of his home and village, and discovers the wonders of the beautiful world around him.  Mouse bravely sets out one morning on the adventure of a lifetime, walking down the country road on his long journey to the forest.  &quot;I stepped inside the forest, between two pillar trees that stood like a gateway.&quot;  His heart pounded, and the unfamiliar sounds terrified him.  Running for cover, the little mouse tripped and fell.  &quot;When I opened my eyes, my nose was deep in moss, a forest of tiny trees, as soft as feathers.  The sunlight was raining down through the leaves and warming my back.  A sweet breeze stirred my fur.&quot;  The forest wasn't really frightening, just new and unknown.....  Ms Nivola's engaging text is joyous and lyrical, and complemented by her elegant and detailed illustrations.  Together word and art paint a captivating portrait that's heartwarming, gentle, and reassuring.  Perfect for cuddling up and reading aloud, The Forest makes a soothing and cozy bedtime story that's just right for youngsters 3-7.  &quot;I listened.  All around me a million leaves whispered and rustled gently.  I rolled over and, for the first time, looked up.  High above, I saw the sky.  The sky was bigger than the forest, bigger even than my fear had been, bigger than everything.  I lay there-a speck in this enormous beauty-until the light began to fade...&quot;	2002-11-18
1335588:US	52793250	R2QJK8QLZLQCLD	0803726139	229868702	Picture A Letter	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Discover the Alphabet.....	Brad Sneed offers a veritable feast for the eyes in this creative and engaging, wordless alphabet book.  Each clever page features a marvelously imaginative scene highlighted by the letter itself in vibrant color.  For instance, on the A page, an acrobat in piked position flies through the air forming the letter A.  But look closely, and you'll find a wealth of other A objects in the surrounding black and white pencil artwork.  Is that an archer shooting his arrow past an aquarium at an apple on the head of an astronaut carrying an alligator?  And make sure to keep an eye on the little mouse at the bottom of each page who collects and builds the alphabet, letter by letter.   Little ones will be entranced as they explore all the intriguing hidden pictures in each busy scene, filled with eye-catching detail, humor, and hours of fun.  Perfect for youngsters as young as 3, Picture A Letter includes an answer key at the end, and is a dazzling, fun-filled, treasure you don't want to miss.  The more you look, the more you'll find.	2002-11-18
1335777:US	52793250	R2HK89Q5K1MLQ8	0689842880	915527269	Eloise Takes a Bawth	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Eloise Takes a Plunge.....	There is nothing so refreshing, so enlivening, or inviting, there is nothing so delicious as a bawth.  Eloise, that irrepressible and precocious nymph, just about sinks the Plaza Hotel as she splawshes, dives, plays and swims in the tub, tub, tub of her penthouse bawthroom.  Drips, drops, leaks, and waterfalls begin to spout all over the building, and the manager, Mr Salomone is beside himself as he watches all his hard work on the Venetian Masked Ball, to be held that very evening in the Grand Ballroom, turn wet, soggy, and almost float away.  &quot;ELOISE/thanks to you/the Plaza's through through through/flooded floor to floor/stem to stern/door to door/The Venetain ball's a bust/Come down with me/I want you to see/the mess you've made!&quot;  But has Eloise's bawthtub antics really ruined the ball?  No, of course not.  In her own inimitable way, she's actually saved the day, and the Venetian Masked Ball turns out to be the sensation of the social season.....  Written in the early sixties, though never published, Kay Thompson's Eloise Takes A Bawth finally makes its long-awaited debut with the help of playwright Mart Crowley and the stunning and imaginative artwork of her long-time collaborator, Hilary Knight.  Ms Thompson's engaging and lyrical text is filled with her trademark energy and wit.  But it's Mr Knight's captivating artwork that really steals the show.  Each bold and busy pen and ink illustration is rich in subtle color, brilliant, eye-catching detail, and marvelous facial expressions, and youngsters will want to linger and explore every inch of each  fun-filled page.  Especially noteworthy is a dazzling four page fold-out of the masked ball in all its New York, social scene glory, and a creative and playful look behind the walls, at the Plaza's intricate plumbing system.  Perfect for kids from 4 to 94, Eloise Takes A Bawth is a veritable feast for the eyes and ears, and a treasured masterpiece to read and share with friends and family now, and futuregenerations in the years to come.  &quot;Now Eloise's forty-year bawth is finally drawn.  Soak away.&quot;	2002-11-18
1336193:US	52793250	R5ZDJHLPWM6BC	0375810528	515661520	What's That Noise?	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Night Noise.....	A little boy, awakened in the middle of the night by a noise he can't quite identify, searches his home for its source.  Could it be a neighbor mowing his lawn, or a UFO landing in the yard?  Is there a monster in the closet, an octopus in the bathtub, or a bear in his parent's bedroom.  Bravely, he decides to find out.....William Carman's minimal, repetitive text sets the stage for his evocative and creative illustrations.  The youngster's real world is rendered in soft, nightime tones with the noise as a string of letters, swirling and buzzing around the page.  His scary, imagined scenes of disasters with monsters, aliens, machines, and huge animals are given a surreal treatment in ominous black and white.  Together word and art help take the fear and mystery out of a dreaded middle-of-the-night noise.  With a delightful twist at the end to set everything right, What's That Noise is  perfect for preschoolers, and makes a light and humorous bedtime read.	2002-11-18
1336605:US	52793250	RW3GHP49X96TC	0439206634	762228668	Dear Mrs. LaRue: Letters from Obedience School (LaRue Books)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	It's a Dog's Life.....	As the local newpaper reports:  &quot;Citing a long list of behavioral problems, Snort City resident Gertrude R. LaRue yesterday enrolled her dog, Ike, in the Igor Brotweiler Canine Academy.  Established in 1953, the Academy has a history of dealing with such issues...&quot;  Poor Ike, as he tells it, in clever letters home to his mistress, his unfortunate incarceration is all a big mistake.  Brotweiler is filled with bad dogs, and he doesn't fit in.  He is very unhappy and just doesn't deserve this gross injustice.  But as we take a peek at his life in obedience school, one thing becomes immediately apparent, Ike's not living a cruel doggy jailhouse existence as he claims, but is spending his days in the lap of luxury at what appears to be a plush canine spa, complete with pool, sauna, and waiter served gourmet meals.....  Mark Teague's engaging text, with its dry, dead-pan delivery, is peppered with hilarious, guilt-laden hyperbole.  But it's his marvelously creative and imaginative illustrations, rich in witty, eye-catching detail, that really make this book stand out and sparkle.  Each two page spread shows Ike in bold color, leading the life of a pampered dog at &quot;Club Pet&quot; juxtaposed with the black and white jailhouse scenes of his letters, and kids will revel in being in on the joke.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Dear Mrs. LaRue is an entertaining, fun-filled romp that shouldn't be missed, and definitely one of the best new books of 2002.	2002-11-18
1337099:US	52793250	R2NBRP1ZPF1LTQ	0399235930	222264725	So You Want To Be An Inventor?	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Inventions and Inventors...Just Go For It.....	Author Judith St. George and award winning illustrator David Small are back with a new and engaging look at history, and those who enjoyed their first collaboration, So You Want To Be President, are in for another captivating, fun-filled treat.  So you want to be an inventor and you think you have what it takes. Take a peek inside the covers of this clever book, and find out a little about some of the famous and not-so-famous who have gone before you.  Ms St. George's easy to read, short profiles are written in an entertaining, conversational style, and complemented by Mr Small's dazzling and humorous illustrations.  Each bold and busy page is filled with history, trivia, fun-facts, and playful wit that whets the appetite and inspires.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, So You Want To Be An Inventor is a marvelous collection that celebrates ingenuity, and may just get your kids' creative juices flowing.  Who knows, you may be living with the next Thomas Edison, Henry Ford, or Josephine Cochran (she invented the dishwasher).	2002-11-17
1338807:US	52793250	R2TSMEWN57VJDA	0399239553	872194275	Christmas Tapestry	Books	5	34	37	N	N	A Heartwarming Holiday Story.....	&quot;There are those who say there is no balance in the universe and that all things happen randomly...without purpose.  Take, for instance, one Jonathan Jefferson Weeks.  He was most upset that his family came all the way from Memphis, Tennessee, when his father accepted the position of pastor at the New Baptist in Detroit.  Even though their new home was on the outskirts...it was still Detroit!  Nothing like Tennessee!  What possible good reason could there be for leaving home and coming here?&quot;  Jonathan and his family work all summer and fall to get the church cleaned up and repaired so that it will be perfect for Christmas.  But as they complete their work, ice damages the sacristy wall and plaster falls, leaving a big ugly hole.  Jonathan is devastated.  He just doesn't understand God's plan.  First they have to leave their home and come to Detroit, and now the church is ruined after all their hard work, right before Christmas services.  What else could happen?  Because of the frigid cold, the car won't start the next morning, and Jonathan and his father have to take the bus into the city to pick up their holiday decorations.  As they pass an old shop, Jonathan spies the most beautiful piece of cloth he's ever seen, all gold and red, perfect for covering the ugly hole in the wall.  They have very little money left, but the shopkeeper says it's enough to buy the cloth.  While waiting at the bus stop to go back home, father and son, with packages and the treasured Christmas tapestry, meet a lonely old woman who shares her hot tea and cookies, and tells them her sad story of love and loss.....  Based on an often told homily, master storyteller, Patricia Polacco, has woven a heartwarming tale that celebrates a real, modern day Christmas miracle.  Her eloquent, gentle text is filled with joy and magic, and complemented by captivating and evocative illustrations.  Together word and art paint an inspiring portrait of love, faith, and the true spirit of the holiday season.  Perfect for youngsters of all ages, The Christmas Tapestry makes a wonderful read aloud the entire family can share, this year, and in the many years to come.  &quot;Jonathan Jefferson Weeks thought his heart would burst at the pure joy of the season...and the wonder of all the events that had taken place.  Now he knew exactly why they moved to Detroit exactly when they did.  He knew why the plaster fell, why the car didn't start...why it was so bitter and cold that he and his father had shared tea with a lonely old woman.  It was all so seamless, woven so perfectly...&quot;	2002-11-15
1340139:US	52793250	R3AC49JB1PVZYH	0618040765	385502277	The Bourbon Street Musicians	Books	5	3	6	N	N	&quot;As grass is green, sho' nuff, y'all&quot;	Author, Kathy Price takes the reader down to the bayou for this marvelous Cajun rendition of the ever popular, Bremen Town Musicians.  Meet four elderly, musically inclined friends, a mule, a hound, a rooster, and a cat, in all their craggy glory, trying to save their hides by traveling to New Orleans. &quot;We is goin' to Bourbon Street to bebop and jazz.  You can carry a tune and you have a bit of the torch in your song, so come wit' us, and we'll mardi gras and hi-de-ho.&quot;  But along the way they come across a crawfisher's shack.  Inside they spy a table filled with food, and &quot;four roughnecks eatin' wit' jackknives and thumbs.&quot;  And since it was dinnertime, and they were mighty hungry, these four old friends decide to sing for their supper.....  Ms Price's clever retelling is filled with captivating imagery and magic, and with its energetic, rhythmic Cajun dialect, just begs to be read aloud by an enthusiastic storytellier.  Andrew Glass' bold, bright, and exuberant illustrations enhance the text with playful humor and witty detail.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Bourbon Street Musicians is a manic, rollicking, fun-filled romp.  &quot;As grass is green, sho' nuff, y'all.&quot;	2002-11-14
1340458:US	52793250	R24IO887BP26DD	0618040765	385502277	The Bourbon Street Musicians	Books	5	1	4	N	N	&quot;As grass is green, sho' nuff, y'all&quot;	Author, Kathy Price takes the reader down to the bayou for this marvelous Cajun rendition of the ever popular, Bremen Town Musicians.  Meet four elderly, musically inclined friends, a mule, a hound, a rooster, and a cat, in all their craggy glory, trying to save their hides by traveling to New Orleans. &quot;We is goin' to Bourbon Street to bebop and jazz.  You can carry a tune and you have a bit of the torch in your song, so come wit' us, and we'll mardi gras and hi-de-ho.&quot;  But along the way they come across a crawfisher's shack.  Inside they spy a table filled with food, and &quot;four roughnecks eatin' wit' jackknives and thumbs.&quot;  And since it was dinnertime, and they were mighty hungry, these four old friends decide to sing for their supper.....  Ms Price's clever retelling is filled with captivating imagery and magic, and with its energetic, rhythmic Cajun dialect, just begs to be read aloud by an enthusiastic storytellier.  Andrew Glass' bold, bright, and exuberant illustrations enhance the text with playful humor and witty detail.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Bourbon Street Musicians is a manic, rollicking, fun-filled romp.  &quot;As grass is green, sho' nuff, y'all.&quot;	2002-11-14
1342088:US	52793250	RR56BB9WLJIB7	0525469869	215618632	The Fantastic Journey of Pieter Bruegel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Introducing Pieter Bruegel.....	&quot;...Master Hieronymous Cock, of the Shop of the Four Winds, is pressing me to make a trip south to the great city of Rome.  He intends that I shall draw as I go and then study the arts and ancient ruins there.  &quot;The prints we make from the drawings you bring back will travel to the four corners of the world,&quot; he says...&quot;  So begins Anders C. Shafer's intriguing story of the two year pilgrimage painter and draftsman, Pieter Bruegel, took from his home in Antwerp, over the Alps, and south to Rome.  Using what little is known about Bruegel, from the writings of his contemporaries and his art, Mr Shafer imagines a fantastic journey, filled with history, drama, humor, and art.  His clever text, written as eloquent diary entries, is engaging, and complemented by evocative illustrations.  Together word and art draws the reader in, transports you back to the mid-sixteenth century, and paints a marvelously entertaining portrait of the man and his times.  Mr Shafer includes an informative Author's Note, to augment and enhance the narrative, and an &quot;art gallery&quot;, with enlightening commentary, of some of Pieter Bruegel's paintings.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, The Fantastic Journey Of Pieter Bruegel is an inspiring introductory biography that is sure to whet the appetite, and send kids out looking for more.	2002-11-13
1342507:US	52793250	R33LIYALCZMPUZ	0399237038	383027284	Who Sees the Lighthouse?	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Counting Celebration of Lighthouses.....	&quot;Blink-flash, flash./Swirl around, twirl around./The long, narrow beam/Slices the night./Who sees the light?&quot;  Join author, Ann Fearrington and find out as she takes the reader on a visit to American Lighthouses.  From one watchful sailor, three laughing gulls, six giant whales, eight mean pirate ghosts, or even nine Martians, all creatures, big and small, real and imaginary are drawn to the light.....Ms Fearrington's simple, lyrical text is engaging.  But it's illustrator, Giles Laroche's elegant and evocative artwork that really steals the show.  Each two page spread comes alive with rich color and creative detail, and little ones will want to linger, explore, and of course, practice their counting.  With an afterword about both the history of lighthouses in general, and the eleven lighthouses featured in the book, to further enlighten and entertain, Who Sees The Lighthouse is much more than a simple counting book.  It's a short history lesson that should whet the appetite of preschoolers, and send you out looking for more.	2002-11-12
1342767:US	52793250	R1NNWDZ3257XUH	0399237755	159831156	Be Brown!	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dog Training Made Fun.....	How does a little boy train his big, brown, disobedient dog?  When the boy commands SIT, his dog jumps up on him and slobbers.  When he orders STAY, his dog chases a squirrel.  FETCH seems to mean roll over to his dog;  COME causes his furry friend to run away.  This old canine just can't seem to get the hang of it.  He won't give his paw, stay off the furniture, play catch, or stop howling and barking.  Finally in total exasperation the boy commands BE BROWN, words his dog just can't ignore.....  Barbara Bottner's minimal text, really just one word per page, is highlighted by Barry Gott's charming, bold, bright, and exuberant illustrations, and little ones are sure to giggle and enjoy all the silly antics of boy and dog.  Be Brown! is an engaging and entertaining preschool, crowd pleaser, youngsters will beg to &quot;help&quot; you read again and again.	2002-11-12
1342949:US	52793250	R3DLR0IXZG36LA	0689852894	627319017	The Spider and the Fly	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A Timeless Classic Made Even Better.....	&quot;Will you walk into my parlor?&quot; said the Spider to the Fly...  So begins Mary Howitt's 1829, cautionary timeless classic.  But this age-old masterpiece has been elevated to new heights by  the stunning, black and white, &quot;silent screen&quot; artwork of Tony DiTerlizzi.  Mr DiTerlizzi has created a clever and captivating feast for the eyes, and filled his illustrations with spooky humor and wit, intricate, eye-catching details, marvelous facial expressions, and pure magic.  Young and old alike will be entranced as they linger and explore each page, finding something new and enticing each and every time they open the book.  Perfect for &quot;youngsters&quot; of all ages, The Spider And The Fly begs to be read aloud and shared with friends and family now, and future generations in the years to come.  &quot;And now, dear little children, who may this story read,/To idle, silly, flattering words I pray you ne'er give heed:/Unto an evil counselor,/close heart and ear and eye,/And take a lesson from this tale,/of the Spider and the Fly.&quot;	2002-11-12
1344708:US	52793250	R1750770S7V6WJ	0152010750	266706415	The First Thing My Mama Told Me	Books	5	7	7	N	N	What's In a Name.....	&quot;When I was born, the first thing my mama told me was my name...  Mama says my name comes from a long-ago word for light.  When I was born, she let that name shine on me.&quot;  Lucy loves her name, the first thing that made her unique and special, and she remembers many wonderful things about it.  Grandpa wrote it in icing on cupcakes when she was one, and Uncle David painted it on the stepstool she used to reach the sink when she was little.  When she was three, she scribbled it everywhere she could reach, windows, floors, the front steps, her hand, and even her clothes.  Her dad made her alphabet pancakes that spelled LUCY on her plate, and she reveled in eating up each letter.  When she was five, her name was on her special coat hook at school where she hung her sweater, and when she was six she remembers stomping each letter in the snow, big enough for the sun and moon to read.  Today, Lucy is seven, and as she eats cake with her loving family and opens her presents, she wonders just what her name will bring this year.....  Susan Marie Swanson's joyous, lyrical text is filled with imagery and magic.  Christine Davenier's lovely evocative artwork is expressive and playful, and complements the text beautifully.  Together, word and art bring Lucy and her name to life in a heartwarming and captivating way.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, The First Thing My Mama Told Me is an engaging, feel-good story that begs to be read aloud and shared, and works well as both an introduction to name recognition and writing, and as a cozy bedtime story.	2002-11-11
1344836:US	52793250	R1EKR1XYM8A2LC	0060266988	452509848	Seasons: A Book of Poems	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Poetry, the Year Round.....	Charlotte Zolotow graces the pages of this gentle book of poetry with imagery and magic as she details the changing seasons from a child's point of view.  From Winter Bits &quot;There is a special kind of quiet/every household knows/we hear it in our sleep/the first night it snows.&quot; and Spring Things &quot;There is a wind/light as a feather/against your skin/a soft wind/gentle as a dove.&quot; to Summer Thoughts &quot;One night I saw/flying low/a little flash of fire/like a star/fallen from the sky./&quot;Look,&quot; my mother said./&quot;a firefly!&quot; and finally The Feel of Fall &quot;There is a strong fresh wind/like an eagle flying by./It snatches someone's kite/and keeps it flying high.&quot;, Ms Zolotow's simple, easy to read verses are clever and joyous, sometimes playful and witty, often quiet and dreamy, but always captivating and engaging as they celebrate special moments in each passing season.  Erik Blegvad's evocative pen and ink illustrations complement each poem with insight and wonder, and help bring it to life on the page.  Perfect for emerging readers, or as a cozy read aloud for younger children, Seasons is a warm and inviting collection to share with friends and family now, and future generations in the years to come	2002-11-11
1345052:US	52793250	R6QW84F7QUPWF	0152024123	354311911	Plantzilla	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Boy and His Plant.....	Mortimer Henryson loves Plantzilla.  All year, during third grade, he sat next to him, brushing the cilia on his leaves, watering him, and keeping growth charts.  &quot;Plantzilla is the only plant I care that much about.&quot;  Now that summer vacation is right around the corner, Mortimer wants to take Plantzilla home with him.  &quot;...he might miss me over the vacation and wonder where I am.&quot;  Mr Lester, his science teacher is only too happy to find Plantzilla a good home for the summer, and so with his mother's permission, Mortimer brings his unusual potted friend home.  And no one was prepared for what happened next.....  Jerdine Nolen has authored a heartwarming story with a gentle message, that won't be lost on young children.  &quot;When you give a living thing love, you never know where it will lead.&quot;  Her creative text, written as letters back and forth between Mortimer, his mother, and Mr Lester, is engaging, and filled with twists, turns, and hilarious surprises.  David Catrow's bold, bright, and busy illustrations are rich in clever, playful detail, and bring Plantzilla to life in all his glory.  Together word and art paint a fun-filled, loving portrait of a boy and his plant, that captures the imagination and sends it soaring.  With a satisfying, happily-ever-after ending, Plantzilla is perfect for youngsters 4-8, and a charming, feel-good story that shouldn't be missed.	2002-11-10
1345695:US	52793250	R1JMDFMGNG42V4	0060292458	759471898	Dinosaur Train	Books	5	12	12	N	N	All Aboard for Fun.....	&quot;Thursday was a day much like any other for Jesse.  Trains and dinosaurs.  Dinosaurs and trains.  Just before bed, Jesse drew one last picture.  Suddenly there was a loud noise and the whole house began to shake...&quot;  Hop aboard!  From the dining car, to the sky window, to the tunnel up ahead and more, join Jesse and his prehistoric friends for the ride of a lifetime on the dinosaur train.....  John Steven Gurney really captures the essence of young dinosaur and train lovers in this endearing little picture book.  His simple text is kept to a minimum, as he lets his vibrant and evocative artwork tell the story.  Each dazzling two-page spread engages, and is filled with bold color, playful details, and marvelous facial expressions, that will captivate little ones, and send imaginations soaring.  Perfect for preschoolers, Dinosaur Train is a read-aloud crowd pleaser, and is sure to become an instant favorite at your house.	2002-11-10
1346570:US	52793250	RI49WHNMPDNH7	0811834921	323881497	Sumo Mouse	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Who is that Chubby Champion of Justice.....	&quot;If Mount Fuji Blows its stack,/If a monster should attack,/Don't just hide inside your house!/Give a call for Sumo Mouse!&quot;  There's trouble in Tokyo.  Tanaka Toys, maker of squeaky toys, is kidnapping mice.  &quot;We can't make squeaky toys without squeaky mice.&quot;  Who's going to save these innocent victims from the dastardly toy company and its cruel owner Tiger Tanaka?  It's Sumo Mouse!  He vaults into action, crushes the villains with his superior technique, and then vanishes into the night.  But Tanaka Toy's evil Doctor Claw has a plan to thwart this champion of squeaky mice.  Will this be the end of Sumo Mouse?  Award winning author and illustrator, David Wisniewski, has outdone himself with this clever, playful superhero tale.  His witty and humorous text is dramatic and engaging.  But it's his bold, bright, and busy collage artwork that really makes this story come alive.  Each page is filled with dazzling color, eye-catching detail, marvelous sound effects, and lots of energy, and little ones will revel in all the fun-filled, sumo wrestling action.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Sumo Mouse is a delightful, manic romp that begs to be read aloud and shared.  &quot;If the earth begins to shake,/If the sea makes buildings break,/Don't be filled with great dismay!/Sumo Mouse will save the day!&quot;	2002-11-09
1347598:US	52793250	R1SG4ZPYZMTHB9	0399238662	697334058	Adelita	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A Mexican Cinderella Story.....	Poor Adelita.  Her mother died in childbirth, her adoring father soon remarried a mean and jealous woman with two awful daughters, and then he unfortunately die, too.  Adelita was now all alone in the world, living with an unloving, cruel family.  Soon, she was relegated to the position of servant and sent to live in the kitchen, cleaning, cooking, and taking care of her stepmother's and stepsisters' every want, wish, and need.  One day an invitation arrived for a fiesta at Senor Gordillo's hacienda to celebrate the homecoming of his son, Javier.....  Tomie dePaola takes the old and familiar Cinderella story, and gives it a clever and humorous, south of the border twist.  This is a much more realistic retelling.  There's no pumpkin coach, fairy godmother, or glass slipper, but the magic of the Cinderella theme shines through with charm and wit.  Mr dePaola's lively text is heartwarming and engaging, and sprinkled with Spanish words and phrases.  But it's his vibrant and expressive artwork that really make this picture book stand out and sparkle.  Each page is a feast for the eyes, filled with warm colors, dazzling Mexican folk art designs, and marvelous eye-catching detail.  Young and old alike, will want to linger and explore each illustration before turning the page.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Adelita is a wonderful addition to the collection of Cinderella stories.  This is Tomie dePaola at his very best, and a must-have for all home libraries.	2002-11-08
1350691:US	52793250	R1CALWM4JEL6N3	076361873X	460773969	That Pesky Rat	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Home, An Owner, and a Name.....	That poor pesky rat.  There he is living in trashcan number 3, Grubby Alley.  He's all alone in the world wishing he was a real pet, with an owner, and creature comforts, and a name.  His friend Pierre, the chinchilla, has a glamorous life eating chocolates, and Nibbles, the lop-eared rabbit, has an exciting life working in a circus.  Even Andrew, the scottie dog, has a nice, quiet life with Miss St. Claire.  She makes him wear a coat and hat when they go out, and that's embarrassing, but as that pesky rat tells us:  &quot;I would do almost anything to be somebody's pet.&quot;  So he decides to take matters into his own little paws, and write an advertisement for the pet store window.  He waits and waits and waits, and then one day old Mr Fortesque, with the very bad eyesight, stops by and reads.....  Award winning author and illustrator, Lauren Child, has written a charming and humorous story that will have kids rooting and cheering for this unlikely and endearing want-to-be pet.  Her engaging and witty text wraps itself creatively around her cleverly exuberant collage artwork, and children will enjoy all the colors, textures, and eye-catching details as they explore each playful illustration.  With a satisfying, feel good ending, That Pesky Rat is perfect for youngsters 4-8, and a wonderful additional to all home libraries.	2002-11-05
1350718:US	52793250	RZSR3DW0AAVI5	0786809086	277698289	By the Side of the Road	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Every Child's Secret Fantasy.....	&quot;I was fooling around in the backseat of the car with my little brother, Rudy...&quot;  So begins Richard's simple story of how he ended up living his life &quot;by the side of the road.&quot;  One thing led to another, as it usually does on a long car trip, until his father finally issued that well known and well worn ultimatum:  &quot;If you don't behave, I'm gonna pull over right here, and you can wait by the side of the road till we come and get you.&quot;  But this time when his father pulled the car on to the shoulder and stopped, Richard decided to call his bluff and get out.  And there he stood, by the side of the road.  At first he was a little nervous, standing there.  &quot;An hour later I was kind of used to it.  Two hours later it was where I wanted to live.  Better than my house at least, where my mother and father were always telling me what to do.&quot;  When his parents come back to take him home, he decides he likes it right where he is, and chooses to stay.  As hours pass to days, then weeks, months, and eventually years, no one can convince Richard to go back home, and he makes quite a nice life for himself by the side of the road.....  Jules Feiffer offers the ultimate childhood fantasy in this clever and engaging picture book.  His straighforward text, with its deadpan delivery is secondary to the marvelous cartoon-like, black and white illustrations, and each page is filled with playful wit, expressive detail, and emotion.  Unfortunately, Mr Feiffer goes a bit too far and too long, detailing Richard's entire roadside life, and concludes with a weak ending that detracts from an otherwise charming fantasy.  Perfect for youngsters 10 and older, By The Side Of The Road is worth a read just for the artwork, and will delight kids with its intriguing, though unrealistic possibilities.	2002-11-05
1357075:US	52793250	RSFCLWU6DEQ1H	0439407001	224760588	The Declaration Of Independence	Books	5	19	20	N	N	When In The Course Of Human Events.....	As Sam Fink tells the reader in his forward:  &quot;For as long as I can remember, every Fourth of July The New York Times reproduced a copy of the original Declaration of Independence on the back page.  Each time it appeared, I would look it over with admiration and go out to celebrate...&quot;  &quot;A couple of years ago, I thought I would actually try to read it...  Reading it over several times, enjoying it more and more, I became very impressed with Thomas Jefferson's logic.  I liked his argument of how unfairly the colonies were being treated, how they couldn't stand it anymore, and they needed to break away from Great Britain.  So, I planned a project...&quot;  And that project became this book, The Declaration of Independence:  The Words That Made America.  Mr Fink has taken the document apart, dividing it into short, more easily understood phrases.  Each two-page spread features one beautifully, hand lettered phrase, accompanied by a clever and engaging illustration of its meaning.  It's the captivating artwork, rich in historical detail and playful wit, that really brings the significance of these great words to life.  Mr Fink also includes the complete text of the Declaration, informative chronology &quot;that transformed loyal subjects of Great Britain into rebellious, patriotic Americans,&quot; a comprehensive glossary, selected bibliography and resources, and index at the end, to further explain and enlighten.   Perfect for youngsters 10 and older, The Declaration Of Independence is a marvelously evocative experience that both inspires and captures the imagination, and is most definitely one of the best new books of 2002.  &quot;The words that made America can now be shared with people of all ages;  and they can help us understand what the Founding Fathers created for all of us who have followed.  Freedom...oh, sweet freedom.&quot;	2002-10-30
1357272:US	52793250	RTJDTDYFUQ5CV	0439312930	575959863	Ten Kings: And The Worlds They Rule	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fascinating and Intriguing......	As Milton Meltzer tells the reader in his introduction:  &quot;This book is about power-power in the hands of kings.&quot;  &quot;...As you'll see, kings, like the rest of us, are complex human beings:  good, bad, a mixture of the two;  benevolent, cruel, brilliant, stupid.  Each monarch's story may help you grasp how political leaders use and abuse power...&quot;  Meet ten kings who had an enormous impact on the world and times in which they lived.  From the familiar, Alexander the Great, Attila the Hun, Charlemagne, Kublai Khan, Louis XIV, and Peter the Great, to the lesser known Hammurabi, David, Mansa Musa, and Atahualpa, Mr Meltzer brings these rulers to life on the page, and paints evocative portraits of their lives, accomplishments, and failures.  His engaging text, written in an easy to read, conversational style is filled with a wealth of history, drama, intriguing sidebars, informative maps, fun facts, and trivia, and enhanced by Bethanne Andersen's appealing artwork in bold and vivid colors.  Perfect for youngsters 10 and older, Ten Kings And The Worlds They Ruled is an eloquent book and includes a comprehensive bibliography and index for further reference.  Kids may first pick up Ten Kings for report research, but it's a sure bet that once they start, they'll continue reading each fascinating chapter.	2002-10-30
1359097:US	52793250	R1OWKFMVFZZPEJ	0374363625	445856508	No More Vegetables!	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Yes!  More Vegetables.....	Ruthie is very definite.  &quot;NO MORE VEGETABLES!&quot;  Her parents can't convince her to eat them.  A trip to the pediatrician doesn't work, and even a school lesson about the food pyramid and the importance of eating a well balanced diet falls flat when Ruthie stands up and declares:  &quot;Give me a yucky carrot,/I'll feed it to the parrot./Offer me slimy beets/'I'll stomp them with my feets./A heap of green peas/only makes me sneeze./I was not born/to eat spinach and corn./No more vegetables!&quot;  Finally her parents give up.  She doesn't have to eat any more vegetables, if she helps in the garden.....  Nicole Rubel's humorous and witty text is only outdone by her bold, bright, and playful illustrations, filled with dazzling color and clever eye-catching detail.  Together word and art offer a captivating picture book, with an amusing and satisfying ending, that is sure to delight and charm picky eaters everywhere.  No More Vegetables! is a fun-filled and engaging preschool crowd pleaser, and who knows, it just might make eating vegetables more appealing to your little ones.	2002-10-29
1360748:US	52793250	R1AOIPJZQ6PDR6	0345449711	63189990	Blues in the Night	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Tight, Tense, and Compelling.....	&quot;It was the nightgown that hooked me.&quot;  Meet Molly Blume, modern Orthodox Jew, true crime writer, and freelance reporter for the local crime sheet throwaway you find at supermarkets and drug stores.  She's tough, wise, independent, sassy, and now intrigued by the hit and run blurb she's just written up.  What was a twenty-something woman, with no identification, doing in Laural Canyon near Lookout Mountain at two in the morning, dressed only in her nightgown?  Who was she running from, and why was she left, seriously injured, in the road to die?  Like an itch that just has to be scratched, Molly is determined to find out.  As she begins investigating, the pieces of the puzzle don't quite fit together, and the deeper she digs into the victim's, Lenore Saunders, life, the more she finds that secrets, lies, and maybe even murder from the past, led to that fateful night.....  Award winning author, Rochelle Krich introduces a new and captivating heroine, and readers who enjoy her marvelous Jessie Drake series won't be disappointed.  Ms Krich's compelling story line is tight and tense, and filled with wit, vivid scenes, and clever twists that keep the reader off balance and guessing to the end.  But it's her brilliant characterizations that make this novel sparkle.  These are real people, sometimes heroic and well meaning, but often flawed and chasing internal demons, and Ms Krich has a talent for breathing life into even the most minor character as the story comes alive on the page.  With its stunning climax and satisfying ending that ties up all the loose ends, Blues In The Night is the first of what promises to be a terrific new series, and a book that belongs at the top of every mystery lover's &quot;must read&quot; list.	2002-10-28
1366042:US	52793250	R1F7L31F0P73QQ	0689845987	926973088	John Coltrane's Giant Steps (Richard Jackson Books (Atheneum Hardcover))	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Visual Jazz Masterpiece.....	&quot;Good evening.  And thank you for coming to our book.  We have something very special for you tonight.  It's John Coltrane's marvelous and tricky composition, &quot;Giant Steps,&quot; performed for you by a box, a snowflake, some raindrops, and a kitten...&quot;  So begins the conductor's introduction to Chris Raschka's brilliant visual jazz rendition of Giant Steps.  First he explains a little about who John Coltrane is, and how his music was composed, &quot;...[he] wrote music which, in his hands, became swirling, leaping, tumbling &quot;sheets of sound.&quot;  That's what he called it.  But why tell you when we can show you?&quot;  Then the composition begins with the raindrops, the tempo, &quot;not too fast and not too slow.&quot;  Next he layers the box, the base, &quot;...the bottom.  It's something to build on.&quot;  Here comes the snowflake, the piano, &quot;showing us the harmony, the beautiful frame.&quot;  And last, the kitten, the melody, &quot;watch her take some giant steps across the page.&quot;  As Mr Raschka &quot;conducts&quot;, problems begin to occur, the shapes and colors collapse, and he finally yells STOP!  &quot;People, people!  What happened?  Okay, okay, let's take a look at some trouble spots.&quot;  After detailing when, where and how each shape went wrong, and giving constructive directions, the composition begins again.  &quot;Let's take it from page 14.  Raindrop, box, snowflake, kitten.  GO.  Sheets of color.  Sheets of sound.  Bravo.  Bravo, everyone.&quot;  Mr Raschka's entertaining text, written in an engaging, conversational style, is informative and enlightening.  His layering of shapes and colors provides a clever and creative visual understanding of jazz and John Coltrane's &quot;sheets of sound.&quot;  Together word and art dazzles, Giant Steps comes to life on the page, and imaginations soar.  Perfect for youngsters 6-10, John Coltrane's Giant Steps is Chris Raschka at his very best, and is an innovative and inventive introduction to understanding jazz, no young music lover should miss.	2002-10-23
1366074:US	52793250	R2ANJV75S2VIIS	0689845987	926973088	John Coltrane's Giant Steps (Richard Jackson Books (Atheneum Hardcover))	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A Visual Jazz Masterpiece.....	&quot;Good evening.  And thank you for coming to our book.  We have something very special for you tonight.  It's John Coltrane's marvelous and tricky composition, &quot;Giant Steps,&quot; performed for you by a box, a snowflake, some raindrops, and a kitten...&quot;  So begins the conductor's introduction to Chris Raschka's brilliant visual jazz rendition of Giant Steps.  First he explains a little about who John Coltrane is, and how his music was composed, &quot;...[he] wrote music which, in his hands, became swirling, leaping, tumbling &quot;sheets of sound.&quot;  That's what he called it.  But why tell you when we can show you?&quot;  Then the composition begins with the raindrops, the tempo, &quot;not too fast and not too slow.&quot;  Next he layers the box, the base, &quot;...the bottom.  It's something to build on.&quot;  Here comes the snowflake, the piano, &quot;showing us the harmony, the beautiful frame.&quot;  And last, the kitten, the melody, &quot;watch her take some giant steps across the page.&quot;  As Mr Raschka &quot;conducts&quot;, problems begin to occur, the shapes and colors collapse, and he finally yells STOP!  &quot;People, people!  What happened?  Okay, okay, let's take a look at some trouble spots.&quot;  After detailing when, where and how each shape went wrong, and giving constructive directions, the composition begins again.  &quot;Let's take it from page 14.  Raindrop, box, snowflake, kitten.  GO.  Sheets of color.  Sheets of sound.  Bravo.  Bravo, everyone.&quot;  Mr Raschka's entertaining text, written in an engaging, conversational style, is informative and enlightening.  His layering of shapes and colors provides a clever and creative visual understanding of jazz and John Coltrane's &quot;sheets of sound.&quot;  Together word and art dazzles, Giant Steps comes to life on the page, and imaginations soar.  Perfect for youngsters 6-10, John Coltrane's Giant Steps is Chris Raschka at his very best, and is an innovative and inventive introduction to understanding jazz, no young music lover should miss.	2002-10-23
1366539:US	52793250	R1N6URNTR1QJY9	0399234535	385356742	The Jazzy Alphabet	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Swing and Jive With the Alphabet.....	Sherry Shahan swings through the alphabet, jazz style, and every toe will be tapping on this raucus, fun-filled journey from A to Z.  Listen to the boogie-woogie, bim-bam blues.  Watch the cool cats cuttin' the rug, and fat cats shuffle to a fine funky beat.  Hear that jazzy jam session, or the organ all oozy and bluesy.  The piano pitter-patters, plink, the saxophone is swinging, so shimmy and shake, and the woodwinds wibble-wabble woo woo wee.  So zip up that zoot suit and get ready to jive.....  Ms Shahans clever text is lively and captivating, and filled with energy, rhythm, alliteration, and motion that's contagious.  Little ones will be on their feet and moving to the beat.  Mary Thelen's bold, bright, and busy illustrations dazzle with vibrant colors and intensity, and youngsters will never tire of exploring each intriguing page.  The Jazzy Alphabet is an engaging manic romp, best read aloud and shared, and a definite preschool crowd pleaser.  &quot;The jazzy alphabet boogies and sings, hot jazz, cool jazz, pizzazzy street-jammin' jazz.  Razzmatazz!  It is the cat's pajamas.  MEOW!	2002-10-23
1366815:US	52793250	R13G8L249H01	0805065709	914930924	Head, Body, Legs: A Story from Liberia	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Liberian Creation Story.....	&quot;Long ago, head was all by himself.&quot;  So begins Won-Ldy Paye's and Margaret Lippert's marvelous retelling of this traditional Liberian creation story.  Head bounced along the ground eating only what his tongue could reach, but at night he dreamed of cherries, high in a tree.  One day he meets Arms, hanging from the tree.  &quot;Let's get together.  I have eyes to see, and you have hands for picking things to eat.&quot;  Arms attached themselves to Head.  &quot;Hands picked cherries, and Head ate every single one.&quot;  Soon body came bouncing along, and Head with Arms attached, joined Body at the belly button, and they swam across the river to a mango tree.  But Arms could not stretch high enough to pick the delicious-looking mangoes.  Standing near the tree were two legs.  &quot;Join us,&quot; said Head.  &quot;I have eyes.  I can show you where to go, and you can help us reach those mangoes.&quot;  Head, Arms, Legs, and Body began to arrange and rearrange themselves until they got it right.  &quot;Everyone slid into place.  Legs stood on tiptoe.  Body straightened out.  Arms stretched up, and the hands picked a mango.  Head took a bite...&quot;  Mr Paye's, and Ms Lippert's simple, playful text is joyous and engaging, perfect for read alouds and story times, and complemented by Julie Paschkis' bold and vibrant illustrations.  Together, word and art bring the magical oral tradition of storytelling to life with wit and humor.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Head, Body, Legs is a winner.	2002-10-23
1367135:US	52793250	R1V46G1X3N0RPN	0689853564	566643220	Spooky ABC	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Spooky Alphabet Book.....	Poet, Eve Merriam, and award winning illustrator, Lane Smith are back with a new &quot;spooked-up&quot; addition of their 1987 stunner, Halloween ABC.  Step carefully through this alphabetical collection, if you dare, and read each bone chilling poem.  From apples, bats, demons, and ghosts, to nightmares, skeletons, vipers, and witchery, Ms Merriam's rhythmic, rhyming poems are filled with macabre imagery and dark magic that are sure to set your knees knocking, and make the hair on the back of your neck stand up.  Mr Smith's brilliantly detailed, dark and somber artwork, has been digitally redesigned by Molly Leach, and kids will be mesmerized with each page turn.  Perfect for Halloween, or any other terror-packed, moonless night, Spooky ABC is a timeless masterpiece to read aloud and share with friends and family now, and future generations in the years to come.	2002-10-22
1367536:US	52793250	R1YBAUUF33PDYY	0060286113	689617796	Don't Know Much About the Kings and Queens of England	Books	5	5	5	N	N	History, Trivia, Facts, and Fun.....	Do you know which king wasn't a king, refused the crown, and called himself Lord Protector?  Who was England's first properly crowned queen, not just the king's wife?  Which queen served the longest, 63 years, and what was so good about &quot;Good Queen Anne?&quot;  Why did George V change his last name to Windsor?  And when Edward IV died, what happened to the princes in the Tower of London?  Find the answers to these and many, many other intriguing questions in Kenneth Davis' Don't Know Much About The Kings &amp; Queens Of England.  Written in an easy to read, question and answer format, and complemented by S D Schindler's playful and humorous artwork, Mr Davis fills his book with fascinating history, engaging fun facts, and entertaining trivia about twenty-four of England's most interesting kings and queens, and the times in which they lived.  Perfect for youngsters 9-12, this is the latest entry in Mr Davis' marvelous Don't Know Much About series, and as he tells the reader in his introduction, &quot;...this one proves that real history about real people is a lot more fun than a bunch of simple dates and facts.  And the true stories of some of the most famous monarchs of England are much more fascinating than you'd ever imagine.&quot;	2002-10-22
1368361:US	52793250	R2EM31Q8FYMT0N	0316608114	501431018	Bernelly & Harriet: The Country Mouse and the City Mouse	Books	5	2	2	N	N	There's Just No Place Like Home.....	&quot;Bernelly was a country mouse.  She lived west of the city in a small village that had everthing a mouse could need-except a shoe shop.  From spring through fall Bernelly was a fly-fishing instructor...  And in winter she spent her time tying beautiful flies.&quot;  But a leaky boot sends her to the city for new shoes and a visit with cousin Harriet.  &quot;Harriet was a famous artist, and her home was also her studio.  In winter she painted glorious masterpieces...  And in summer she traveled to exotic places that might inspire her.&quot;  Harriet was thrilled to have Bernelly visit, and took her all over the city, sightseeing and shopping, and by the end of the week, Bernelly was exhausted.  &quot;It is just too crowded and noisy here.  I miss being able to sit quietly by the river watching my beautiful trout.&quot;  Harriet was intrigued with such a simple, quiet life.  &quot;Perhaps it will inspire me.&quot;  But of course, country life was not the life for her.  Harriet was bored with fishing and gardening, napping and &quot;dinner parties with exciting tales of trout.&quot;  She missed the &quot;hustle and bustle of city life-the noise, the smells, the shopping!&quot; and heads back to the city, where surprisingly, she finds country life did inspire her, in its own way.....Elizabeth Dahlie's modern retelling of an old, favorite fable is playful and entertaining.  Her engaging text is only outdone by her charming and endearing illustrations, rendered in soft, pastel tones, and filled with marvelous eye-catching detail and humor.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Bernelly &amp; Harriet is a warm and captivating read aloud with a gentle message that won't be lost on little ones...there's no place like home.	2002-10-21
1368987:US	52793250	R2CWOXFR7N8MV0	0688169651	133073521	The Castaway	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hubie's Back....	Timid little mouse, Hubie, would have probably been more receptive to the idea of going on a family vacation to exotic Barabooda Island had he not seen the scary movie, The Island Of No Return.  And the fact that they were traveling there on an enormous dirigible, The Island Clipper, didn't help calm his fears.  But when his worst fears are realized, and a storm sends poor Hubie overboard, he finds himself on an almost deserted island, and ready for the adventure of a lifetime.....  James Stevenson has brought back one of his most endearing characters, and just like his previous Hubie stories, The Seaview Hotel, All Aboard, and The Stowaway, his latest opus doesn't disappoint.  Mr Stevenson's playful and engaging story, told in a bold and busy comic-book format, is clever and entertaining, and kids will revel in the humorous, action-packed scenes, eye-catching details, and surprise ending.  Perfect for youngsters 5-9, The Castaway is a manic, fun-filled romp that shouldn't be missed.	2002-10-21
1369283:US	52793250	R1W9M3B385HB5N	0689832974	713409587	King Midas: The Golden Touch	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Be Careful What You Wish For.....	&quot;Long ago the ancient Greeks believed their gods were in the sky and the winds, the seas and the mountains-in everything.  The people prayed to the gods for wisdom and power, knowledge and generosity, and moderation in all their ways.  There reigned in Phrygia a king named Midas.  He was weak and ignorant, miserly and greedy.  And he didn't think he needed to pray to the gods at all...&quot;  So begins Demi's brief and rather inaccurate retelling of the King Midas myth.  As always, this award winning artist's exquisite and elegant illustrations make this picture book stand out.  Each page is filled with dazzling, vibrant, rich color and meticulous detail.  Children will want to linger and explore each stunning page, and will be especially mesmerized by a creative and imaginative 4 page fold-out spread, as King Midas runs through his palace turning everything in his path to gold.  Unfortunately the storytelling does not live up to the marvelous artwork.  The uninspired text feels rushed and choppy, and lacks wit, drama and magic.  Though a weak introduction to King Midas and Greek myths, the book is worth a look just for the captivating pictures.  Hopefully it will whet the appetite, and send kids 5 and older out looking for more.	2002-10-21
1369609:US	52793250	R3RE099TO5BJ02	0439317673	577759406	Just One More Story	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Warm, Witty, and Fun.....	&quot;Austin and his family were on the road.  They called themselves The Swamp Snakes.  Dad played the fiddle, Mom sang country-western, and Austin banged the tambourine.  Every day was a different crowd.  Every week was a different town.  But every night in their trailer was exactly the same...&quot;  Austin had a drink of water from his dinosaur mug, lined his stuffed animals up at the end of the bed, snuggled down under his favorite quilt, and called out &quot;story time.&quot;  Dad always told him his bedtime story.  &quot;Just one more story?&quot; Austin always begged.  &quot;You know the rules, cowboy,&quot; Dad said.  &quot;Just one story at bedtime.&quot;  It was always the same, night after night until The Swamp Snakes got to Tuscaloosa.  That night, instead of sleeping in their trailer, they stayed with Uncle Roy in his &quot;two story&quot; house.  Austin didn't like the scratchy blankets or the unfamiliar bed, and he didn't like having to drink his water from a paper cup instead of his dinosaur mug, but he sure did like the idea of two stories.....  Jennifer Brutschy's gentle, heartwarming story with its clever and humorous, surprise ending, just begs to be shared and read aloud.  Her witty text, rich in engaging backwoods words and phrases, is complemented by Cat Bowman Smith's cheerful watercolor illustrations, filled with bold color, expressive details, energy and motion.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Just One More Story is an cozy, comforting, and entertaining bedtime read that's sure to become an instant favorite at your house.	2002-10-21
1374236:US	52793250	R2BUBIIMKC1GGU	068984462X	134976310	Cow	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Day in the Life of a Cow.....	From sun up to sun down, spend a day in the life of a dairy cow.  Rise at dawn, &quot;big and heavy&quot;, and head for the barn, ready to be milked.  Then lumber back to the pasture to eat and chew your cud all day long, take a cool drink from the river, and maybe a nap in the shade of a tree during the hot afternoon.  &quot;Your ears twitch to clear the flies from your face.  You swish them from your back with a long bushy tail.&quot;  As dusk approaches it's time to head back to the barn for the evening milking.  &quot;You graze, you chew, and you rest.  It's hard work being a cow.&quot;  Malachy Doyle's spare text, told in the second person, is quiet, and poetic, and complemented by Angelo Rinaldi's stunning artwork.  Mr Rinaldi's beautifully shaded, close-up, and detailed oil paintings are so realistic and lifelike that  you'll think you're looking at photographs.  Together word and art offer a simple and elegant peek at a cow's life down on the dairy farm.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Cow is engaging, early non-fiction at its best, and an evocative picture book that shouldn't be missed.	2002-10-16
1374245:US	52793250	R1G6X2TYC39TMW	0805070079	808696954	Rude Mule	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good Manners Made Fun.....	&quot;What would you do if a mule knocked on your door one day and said &quot;I've come for lunch&quot;?  So begins Pamela Duncan Edwards' charming picture book about manners.  Mule isn't always the most considerate or polite guest.  He's demanding and never says please or thank you.  He brays and stamps his hooves when he doesn't get his way, makes rude noises through his nose, and sticks out his big red mule tongue.  But our young narrator is very calm, patient, and always firm.  Without good manners there will be no fun, and soon he wins over his belligerent guest.....  Ms Edwards' gentle and engaging text is complemented by Barbara Nascimbeni's bold, bright, and expressive illustrations, filled with lots of humorous detail.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Rude Mule is a fun-filled, interactive story that is sure to teach little ones the value of good manners  in a clever and captivating way.	2002-10-16
1375650:US	52793250	RTLZUG68269CA	1563152827	154999605	Semblance of Balance	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Fascinating and Compelling.....	In the fall of 1924, America was riveted by the infamous Leopold and Loeb trial, and much has been written over the years about this intriguing case...the defendants, Nathan Leopold and Dickie Loeb, their wealthy and elite upbringing and education, the crime's thrill-seeking motivation, and lawyer, Clarence Darrow's brilliant strategy and closing argument.  Now, Wayne F. Nielsen brings a totally new perspective to this &quot;crime of the century.&quot;  Meet Mr Nielsen's grandmother, Elizabeth Sattler, nurse and maid in the Leopold household, who witnessed, firsthand, the events leading both up to, and then after the murder, and became one of the prosecutions star witnesses.  Using his own family history coupled with exhaustive research, he has written a fascinating book that transports the reader back in time, and gives you a very personal, fly-on-the-wall view of the entire affair.  This eloquently written book is tense and compelling, and filled with history, drama, insight and truth.  Semblance Of Balance grabs you from page one and never lets go.  For those interested in history and true crime, this is a book that should be placed right at the top of your &quot;must read&quot; list.	2002-10-15
1381356:US	52793250	R1P6DQV9LQEKR6	0399234462	660182642	Outside the Lines	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Playful Poems for Everyone.....	Brad Burg introduces poetry at play, 22 delightful and intriguing poems that literally run, skip, bounce, swing, float, and slide across the pages demonstrating each playtime activity.  Mr Burg's poems are filled with energy, rhythm, and motion, as your eyes follow each cleverly worded activity from playing catch, tag, or soccer, throwing a frisbee, flying kites and paper airplanes, and climbing the jungle gym, to blowing bubbles, watching fireflies, jumping in a leaf pile or on your bed, and building a sand castle.  Rebecca Gibbon's bright and charming illustrations enhance each verse, and help bring it to life on the page.  Together, word and art offer an imaginative, interactive collection that is both a feast for the eyes and the ears.  Perfect for youngsters 5 and older, Outside The Lines is a marvelous introduction to &quot;concrete&quot; poetry, and a fun-filled masterpiece of creativity, not to be missed.	2002-10-10
1384627:US	52793250	R15QOIBAG55GM8	0763616761	755539289	The Birdwatchers	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Joys of Birdwatching.....	&quot;My granddad is a birdwatcher.  He tells me birdwatching stories.  He always says, &quot;Jess, when I go birdwatching, things happen...&quot;  And our little narrator is intrigued with his tales.  Sometimes, he tells her that when he makes drawings of the birds, they make drawings of him.  The birds often help him find their names in his bird book, and they got all together early one morning and recorded the &quot;dawn chorus.&quot;  Granddad's stories are so fun and amazing that finally little Jess has to find out for herself.  So one morning she goes birdwatching with her grandfather.....  Simon James' gentle and engaging story is heartwarming, and complemented by playful and inviting illustrations is warm earthtones.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Birdwatchers is a captivating gem, with a humorous, surprise ending that you don't want to miss.  Remember, when you go birdwatching, things happen...	2002-10-07
1385511:US	52793250	RTMFLYSLMUY63	0060287616	581574422	I'm Gonna Like Me: Letting Off a Little Self-Esteem	Books	5	25	26	N	N	A Joyous Guide to Happiness.....	Dynamic duo, Jamie Lee Curtis and Laura Cornell are back with their fun-filled and entertaining guide to &quot;letting off a little self-esteem.&quot;  Follow a boy and girl through their day, from the time they open their eyes in the morning, to the moment they close them again at bedtime.  They like themselves, through the good and the bad...&quot;I'm gonna like me/when I open the box/and smile and say &quot;Thanks&quot;/even though I got socks&quot;, the right and the wrong...&quot;I'm gonna like me/when my answer is wrong,/like thinking my ruler/was ten inches long&quot;, when they rise to the occassion...&quot; I'm gonna like me/when I clean in a flash/and play with my brother/and take out the trash&quot;, or when trying something new...&quot;I'm gonna like me/when I eat something new/even if Grandma makes/octopus stew.&quot;  Ms Curtis' joyous, rhyming text is filled with energy, and just begs to be shared and read aloud.  But it's Ms Cornell's bold, bright, and busy illustrations that make this picture book really standout, and children will revel in all the witty detail as they explore each dazzling, two-page spread.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, I'm Gonna Like Me is a captivating, feel good, little gem that tells kids not to be shy about it, but to celebrate their special selves in everything they do.  &quot;I'm gonna like me/cause I'm loved and I know it,/and liking myself/is the best way to show it.&quot;	2002-10-07
1386889:US	52793250	R2E1M3OM9Y0YOJ	0689845820	49244106	Matthew A.B.C.	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Creative Alphabet Fun.....	&quot;Mrs. Tuttle has 25 children in her class.  They are all named Matthew.  Principal Nozzet wonders how Mrs. Tuttle tells them apart.  She finds it quite simple...&quot;  Starting with the letter A, meet each Matthew, and find out what's special about him.  For example, Matthew A is extremely affectionate, Matthew B loves Band-Aids, Matthew C has cowlicks, and so on, letter by letter, through the alphabet.  Peter Catalanotto's easy to read, spare text is complemented with clever, bold and bright illustrations, filled with eye-catching detail and humor.  Matthew G has trouble with glue, and Mr Catalanotto shows him stuck to his chair and covered with school supplies.  Matthew I is incognito, wearing a fedora and fake glasses, nose, and mustache.  And Matthew R, my personal favorite, is freckled with a rhinoceros, and if kids look closely they'll see the outline of a freckle-made rhino, horn and all, on Matthew R's face.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Matthew A.B.C. is a creative and imaginative learning tool that both engages and entertains.  As classmate number 25, Matthew Y, yodels, Principal Nozzet brings a new student in to join the class.  Can you guess his name?  Here's a hint, he's covered in zippers!	2002-10-05
1387571:US	52793250	RMQ9J9RA1G5A8	0688178197	712904561	Scranimals	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Scrambled Safari Fun.....	&quot;We're sailing to Scranimal Island,/It doesn't appear on most maps./The PARROTTERS float on the tide there,/The STORMY PETRELEPHANT flaps./We may find a rare OSTRICHEETAH,/There's never been one in a zoo./We're sailing to Scranimal Island-/You're welcome to come along too.&quot;  So pack your bags and join a young boy and girl on the safari adventure of a lifetime.  It's time to explore an island of never before seen mixed up animals, vegetables, birds, flowers, and sea creatures.  Meet the aromatic RHINOSEROSE, the green SPINACHICKENS, lowly POTATOAD, and inert HIPPOPOTAMUSHROOMS.  Frolic with the noisy PARROTTERS, and the sweet PORCUPINEAPPLE.  Swing through the trees with the MANGORILLA, and ORANGUTANGERINE.  Watch a pride of BROCCOLIONS hunting ANTELOPETUNIA for dinner, and cavort in a mountain meadow with a PANDAFFODIL.  And don't forget to visit the TOUCANEMONES, RADISHARK, BANANACONDA, poor, extinct AVOCADODOS, and other scrambled creatures living out their days on this magical island.....  Jack Prelutsky's creative and inventive &quot;scranimal&quot; poems are filled with rhyme, rhythm, engaging wordplay, humor, and silly puns.  Award winning illustrator, Peter Sis' intricately detailed artwork dazzles, and will send imaginations soaring with each page turn.  Perfect for youngsters of all ages, Scranimals is a unique and captivating, fun-filled romp, and definitely Prelutsky and Sis at their very best.  &quot;We've journeyed to Scranimal Island,/Where magical creatures are found,/Where AVOCADODOS still flourish,/And green SPINACHICKENS abound./We've seen a PANDAFFODIL dining,/A PORCUPINEAPPLE at play./Perhaps there is more to discover-/We'd like to return there someday.&quot;  We can only hope that day comes very soon.	2002-10-04
1387579:US	52793250	R3LRFKESMJ1GWL	0763616486	153781334	I Pledge Allegiance	Books	5	15	17	N	N	What Our Pledge Really Means.....	Every morning millions of children stand and face the flag, place their hands over their hearts, and recite the Pledge of Allegiance.  But what do these 31 words really mean?  Bill Martin Jr. and Michael Sampson have taken the pledge apart, and explained each word (pledge:  A pledge is a promise), or phrase (one nation:  Our states and territories have bonded together to form one nation.  One nation means one country), in simple, kid-friendly language.  Add to that some history, fun facts, witty asides, and the clever artwork of award winning illustrator, Chris Raschka, and you have the makings of an engaging, entertaining, and informative book.  Perfect for youngsters 6 and older, I Pledge Allegiance is a creative and straightforward look at the meaning behind America's most often recited words, and works well with Syl Sobel's Our Pledge Of Allegiance.	2002-10-04
1388679:US	52793250	RYLSE3LNTYD96	0689846444	366859280	What Teachers Can't Do	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Oh, Those Poor Teachers.....	&quot;There are lots of things that regular people can do, but teachers can't...&quot;  And after reading this book, you'll wonder why these helpless creatures even bother to get out of bed in the morning.  They can't be tardy, write on the chalkboard without squeaking, or buy their own apples.  They need help spelling CAT, and adding 2+2, cleaning the blackboard and erasers, and can't feed the class pets, or water the class plants, without help from their students.  They can't trade desserts at lunch, or go down the tube slide at recess, and they can twirl the rope, but can't jump.  They can never run out of smiles, or smiley faces.  But most importantly, teachers can't wait to come to school every day.....  Author, Douglas Wood and illustrator, Doug Cushman are back with a humorous and heartwarming sequel to their earlier collaborations, What Dads Can't Do and What Moms Can't Do.  Mr Wood's simple text is complemented by Mr Cushman's engaging, cartoon-like artwork featuring their trademark dinosaurs in all manner of classroom activities.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, What Teachers Can't Do is an endearing tribute to those who work with and love our children each and every day.  &quot;No one knows why there are so many things teachers can't do.  Maybe because they're so busy doing the thing they do best of all.  Teaching you.&quot;	2002-10-03
1389071:US	52793250	R286LA4VMZ1NRL	015216748X	826386195	Epossumondas	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Choose Your Words Carefully.....	&quot;Epossumondas was his mama's and his auntie's sweet little patootie.  They just loved him to death.  Epossumondas used to go see his auntie most every day, and she nearly always gave him something to take home with him...&quot;  So begins renowned storyteller, Colleen Salley's, clever folktale about an endearing little possum who always follows his human mama's directions a little too literally with hilarious results.  As she tells the reader in the Storyteller's Note, Epossumondas is a noodlehead story.  &quot;Mishaps occur but are not caused deliberately.  The humor is gentle and silly.  The plot may be highly improbable, but not impossible-it could happen.&quot;  Ms Salley's engaging text just begs to be read aloud and is complemented by award winning illustrator, Janet Stevens, captivating, bold and bright artwork.  Children will revel in all the eye-catching detail and marvelous facial expressions as they linger over each page.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Epossumondas is a fun-filled, witty and warm romp little ones will want to read again and again, and is sure to become an instant favorite at your house.	2002-10-03
1389642:US	52793250	R14G52FCWUE4BC	0399234888	575656727	This Is The House That Jack Built	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Let's Visit The House that Jack Built.....	As Simms Taback tells the reader at the end of this rollicking, fun-filled adventure:  &quot;This Is The House That Jack Built, a favorite rhyme for children for several centuries, was first published in 1755 and probably derived from an ancient Hebrew chant in the 16th century.  It was illustrated by Randolph Caldecott in 1878.&quot;  And now this old and popular chain of events story gets the brilliant Taback treatment.  Each clever and creative two page spread dazzles with vibrant color, marvelous, eye-popping detail, and witty asides.  Children will revel in all the joyous, manic fun as they linger and explore each intriguing page, finding something new and exciting each time they open the book.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, This Is The House That Jack Built is a timeless masterpiece the whole family can read, share, and laugh over together, and a picture book no home should be without.	2002-10-03
1389732:US	52793250	R2QFC208DYK3TH	0439050227	70390178	David Gets In Trouble	Books	5	16	21	N	N	Excuses, Excuses.....	Irrepressible David is back in all his little boy glory, and as he tells us on the title page, &quot;NO! It's not my fault!&quot;  Whether he's skateboarding into furniture, making a silly face during class pictures, pulling the cat's tail, or eating the dog's biscuits, burping loudly at meals, sneaking a taste of icing off the cake before dinner, or saying bad words, he's got a logical answer for everything.  &quot;I didn't mean to!&quot;  &quot;I forgot!&quot;  &quot;I couldn't help it!&quot;  &quot;No, it wasn't me!&quot;  &quot;It was an accident!&quot;  &quot;But Dad says it!&quot;  Nothing is really his fault, he's just a victim of circumstance.  Or is he...  Late at night, lying in bed, David has an epiphany,  &quot;Yes!  It was me!&quot; and apologizes to his mother as she tucks him, lovingly, back in bed.....  David Shannon captures the essence of a busy, take charge preschooler, filled with manic energy, in this sequel to No, David! and David Goes To School.  Little ones will easily identify with the trials and tribulations of David's world as he rockets through his day from one mishap to the next.  Mr Shannon's exaggerated, bold and bright, childlike illustrations steal the show with marvelous facial expression and hilarious details.  David Gets In Trouble begs to be read aloud at story time, and is sure to be an often asked for preschool crowd pleaser.	2002-10-03
1390164:US	52793250	R15HT2JRMKAO8G	0399239537	176310268	FIREBOAT: The Heroic Adventures of the John J. Harvey (Boston Globe-Horn Book Awards (Awards))	Books	5	10	12	N	N	&quot;Not Scrapped, Not Useless, Not Forgotten&quot;	&quot;New York City. 1931.  Amazing things were happening big and small...&quot;  The Empire State Building was built, Babe Ruth hit his 611th home run, the Snickers candy bar was invented, the George Washington Bridge spanning the Hudson River was opened, and &quot;on a sunny fresh day, the John J. Harvey fireboat was launched.&quot;  &quot;There were 12 fireboats in New York City.  The Harvey was the largest, fastest and shiniest fireboat of them all.&quot;  It traveled up and down the river fighting fires on boats and liners and at the busy piers.  Fast forward to 1995.  New York no longer needed fireboats, and The Harvey was retired and sat rusting, waiting to be sold for scrap.  But then an amazing thing happened.  A group of friends decided to buy and save The Harvey.  They took her to a shipyard and fixed her up until she was bright and shiny and good as new.  &quot;And once again the Harvey was on the water.&quot;  &quot;But then on September 11, 2001 something so huge and horrible happened that the whole world shook...&quot;  The John J. Harvey and her new crew knew they had to help.  &quot;The water pipes were broken and buried.  And the fire trucks that had raced to the scene could not pump water.  The firefighters attached hoses to the Harvey...&quot;  The Harvey worked around the clock for four days, until the fires were under control.  When it was finally time to go home, the crew had never seen anything so terrible, or felt so proud.  &quot;The Harvey was a hero.  And everyone knew it.&quot;  Maira Kalman's marvelous tribute to the John J. Harvey and all the brave people who sprang into action on 9/11 is inspiring, and filled with history, drama, courage, determination, and triumph.  Her simple and straightforward text is complemented by her evocative, bold and busy illustrations that bring The Harvey's amazing story to life.  Together, word and art paint a vivid and uplifting portrait that is poignant and touching, but won't overwhelm children with frightening and lurid details.  Perfect for youngsters 5-9, Fireboat:  The Heroic Adventures Of The John J. Harvey is Ms Kalman at her best.  This is a book the entire family should read and share together, and is sure open important discussions and dialogue.	2002-10-02
1390629:US	52793250	R3AP700320PVZ2	0399239545	606821487	"Slowly, Slowly, Slowly," Said the Sloth	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Set Your Own Pace.....	Slowly, slowly, slowly...that's the way of the sloth.  Whether crawling along a branch, or eating a leaf, the sloth never hurries, but spends most of his life hanging upside down from a tree branch in the rain forest, and sleeping, rain or shine.  &quot;Why are you so slow?&quot; the howler monkey asked one day.&quot;  And why so quiet and boring, other animals want to know.  The sloth didn't answer.  He just hung, silently, and slept.  But when the jaguar asks why he's so lazy, the sloth finally sees the need to set the record straight.  He may be many things, among them lackadaisical, unflappable, sluggish, calm, and laid-back.  &quot;I am relaxed and tranquil, and I like to live in peace.  But I am not lazy.&quot;  Then the sloth yawned and said, &quot;That's just how I am.  I like to do things slowly, slowly, slowly.&quot;  Beginning with an intriguing forward by Jane Goodall, detailing the life and habits of the sloth, Eric Carle's wonderfully creative picture book pays homage to an unlikely and endearing hero.  His spare and slothlike, repetitive text is quiet, soothing and engaging.  But, as always, it's Mr Carle's bold, bright, and imaginative cut-paper collage illustrations that make this book stand out and sparkle.  Each two page spread dazzles with vibrant color and clever detail as the many animals who live in the rain forest march by, and youngsters can find all their pictures and names displayed on the endpapers for further reference.  Perfect for preschoolers, &quot;Slowly, Slowly, Slowly,&quot; Said The Sloth is a captivating masterpiece that entertains and enlightens with its gentle message.  As the sloth would tell you...Slow down, set your own pace, and enjoy life!	2002-10-02
1390973:US	52793250	R1UCB2T75CDFKZ	0761315438	614079326	Get To Work, Trucks! (Single Titles)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Hardworking Trucks.....	Get up early in the dark, quiet morning, and join the workers traveling to the worksite.  It's time to &quot;get to work, trucks!&quot;  There are big trucks and little trucks, busy all day, and hard at work.  Meet the loader and the dump truck.  Watch the digger dig a deep hole, and the bulldozer push dirt into other holes.  The cement mixer is hard at work mixing and mixing.  The crane lifts beams high in the sky, and the roller flattens the road on the ground.  And as a special treat, see if you can find the visitor on each page who just can't get enough of heavy equipment....  Don Carter's simple, descriptive text, written in short sentences, is kept to a minimum.  The real story is told through his bold, bright, and busy, eye-popping illustrations.  Each two page spread dazzles with vivid color, texture, energy, and humor, and little ones will be itching to hop aboard the dump truck, or maybe the bulldozer, or crane, and get right to work.  Perfect for preschoolers, Get To Work Trucks is an engaging and informative little gem of a book, that's sure to become an instant favorite at your house.	2002-10-01
1391274:US	52793250	R2WG5A9VSUAVZ1	0152002391	267710925	A Story for Bear	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Quiet, Gentle Fantasy.....	One summer day, a bear strayed far from home, and found himself in a clearing, watching a woman reading.  &quot;Sometimes, as she gazed at the book, she laughed out loud.  Other times, she lowered it and looked away, but without really seeing anything, he thought.  Still other times, she appeared afraid and held it tightly, And once, when the sun slanted through the trees, he saw her place it gently on her lap and close her eyes...&quot;  The bear was mesmerized, and came back day after day to watch the woman read.  One day the woman notices the bear and calls to him.  He cautiously lumbers over near her chair, lies down, and she begins to read aloud.  &quot;The bear gazed up at her as she said the words and turned the pages.  He couldn't understand any of what she was saying.  But as he listened to the sound of her voice, happiness washed over him like waves.&quot;  And so the summer continued, until one day, as autumn approached, the bear arrived at her chair in the woods, and she was gone.  &quot;There, under the tree where she usually sat, were her books.  There were many of them, more than he had ever seen, lying on a cloth, fallen leaves and pinecones on their covers.&quot;  Slowly and carefully he took each book back to his cave.  &quot;And all that winter, before she came back in the spring, whenever he put his nose to the pages or touched the covers with his claws, she was there...&quot;  Dennis Haseley's eloquent text is quiet and heartwarming, and filled with magic.  But it's Jim LaMarche's engaging, dreamy and expressive artwork, in soft and appealing earthtones, that really makes this picture book stand out.  Together word and art send a gentle message about the joys of reading and being read to, that won't be lost on young children.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, A Story For Bear makes a wonderfully soothing and reassuring bedtime story that little ones will beg to read again and again.	2002-10-01
1392620:US	52793250	R29GH5KMTQ9QFN	0374343284	707221239	Lapin Plays Possum: Trickster Tales From the Louisiana Bayou	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Folktale Fun.....	Sharon Arms Doucet brings three &quot;trickster tales from the Louisiana bayou&quot; to life in this marvelous collection of Cajun, Creole folklore.  Meet Compere Bouki.  &quot;...He owned a farming field full of Delta soil so rich that if you planted a penny at sunrise, you could pick a dollar before sundown.  But as for smarts, he must have been hiding behind the barn door when they were passed out.&quot;  And meet his friend, prankster, Compere Lapin.  &quot;...He could find more ways to get out of work than there are fleas on a possum.  But Lapin, him, he'd got an extra helping of smarts.&quot;  Bring this dynamic duo together, and you have the makings of engaging and entertaining stories that are sure to tickle the funnybone as Lapin cleverly outwits Bouki over and over again with his tricks and pranks.  Ms Doucet's witty text is sprinkled with French expressions and Bayou colloquialisms and phrases.  Illustrator, Scott Cook's intricate and expressive artwork is filled with energy, humor, and lots of eye-catching detail.  Together word and art paint a captivating portrait that just begs to be read aloud and shared.  With a glossary of words and terms, at the beginning, to help get you started, Lapin Plays Possum is storytelling at its very best, and is sure to be a folktale crowd pleaser that shouldn't be missed.	2002-09-30
1392723:US	52793250	R27NTSGZUTOUOE	0374343284	707221239	Lapin Plays Possum: Trickster Tales From the Louisiana Bayou	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Folktale Fun.....	Sharon Arms Doucet brings three &quot;trickster tales from the Louisiana bayou&quot; to life in this marvelous collection of Cajun, Creole folklore.  Meet Compere Bouki.  &quot;...He owned a farming field full of Delta soil so rich that if you planted a penny at sunrise, you could pick a dollar before sundown.  But as for smarts, he must have been hiding behind the barn door when they were passed out.&quot;  And meet his friend, prankster, Compere Lapin.  &quot;...He could find more ways to get out of work than there are fleas on a possum.  But Lapin, him, he'd got an extra helping of smarts.&quot;  Bring this dynamic duo together, and you have the makings of engaging and entertaining stories that are sure to tickle the funnybone as Lapin cleverly outwits Bouki over and over again with his tricks and pranks.  Ms Doucet's witty text is sprinkled with French expressions and Bayou colloquialisms and phrases.  Illustrator, Scott Cook's intricate and expressive artwork is filled with energy, humor, and lots of eye-catching detail.  Together word and art paint a captivating portrait that just begs to be read aloud and shared.  With a glossary of words and terms, at the beginning, to help get you started, Lapin Plays Possum is storytelling at its very best, and is sure to be a folktale crowd pleaser that shouldn't be missed.	2002-09-30
1392882:US	52793250	ROTFVBA4BF059	0374327505	276212135	Goose's Story	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Goose's Inspiring Story.....	&quot;Henry hears the honking first.  He circles the pond, around and a half, sending up splashes of warm spring mud all over his winter coat.  Henry knows the geese are coming.  And then I know it, too...&quot;  This is the best time of year for our young narrator, as the Canada geese arrive back at her family's pond, each spring.  But this year she notices one of the geese has a badly injured foot, and when she visits the pond the next day, the goose's foot is gone.  There she stands all alone, separated from the rest of the flock.  The other geese have shunned her.  &quot;I never thought geese could be so mean.&quot;  The little girl wants to take care of the poor footless goose, feed her, pet her, be her friend, but her mother and father warn her not to.  &quot;A wild goose has to learn to live with her weakness.  Or she won't live at all.&quot;  As the summer slides towards autumn, the little girl notices that the goose has grown stronger and more capable.  It can balance and hobble on its stump, search for food, and swim.  But she still worries that the goose won't be strong enough to push off and fly south for the winter, and will be left behind to die.  And then one day when she comes home from school, all the geese are gone, and so is her little crippled friend.  The winter months pass and the girl thinks often of the goose, and then one spring day, soon after she spots the first robin, she hears the familiar honking.  &quot;They land together.  A couple of geese.  Honking and flapping.  Drinking and bathing.  Combing each other's feathers.  One is larger than the other, his neck as thick as a fire hose when he stretches it out to protect her-the goose with one foot...&quot;  Inspired by an actual event, Cari Best's touching and captivating story, as seen through the eyes of a grade school  girl, is filled with drama, courage, determination, and triumph.  Her engaging and evocative text is complemented by Holly Meade's bold and vibrant paper collage illustrations, that bring the wonders and wildness of nature to life.  And together, word and art paint a vivid, empathetic, and uplifting portrait of an unlikely and endearing heroine.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Goose's Story is a heartwarming tale of nature and survival, and is definitely one of the best new picture books of 2002.	2002-09-30
1392949:US	52793250	R2H6JPWQ0IYM1C	0374343284	707221239	Lapin Plays Possum: Trickster Tales From the Louisiana Bayou	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Folktale Fun.....	Sharon Arms Doucet brings three &quot;trickster tales from the Louisiana bayou&quot; to life in this marvelous collection of Cajun, Creole folklore.  Meet Compere Bouki.  &quot;...He owned a farming field full of Delta soil so rich that if you planted a penny at sunrise, you could pick a dollar before sundown.  But as for smarts, he must have been hiding behind the barn door when they were passed out.&quot;  And meet his friend, prankster, Compere Lapin.  &quot;...He could find more ways to get out of work than there are fleas on a possum.  But Lapin, him, he'd got an extra helping of smarts.&quot;  Bring this dynamic duo together, and you have the makings of engaging and entertaining stories that are sure to tickle the funnybone as Lapin cleverly outwits Bouki over and over again with his tricks and pranks.  Ms Doucet's witty text is sprinkled with French expressions and Bayou colloquialisms and phrases.  Illustrator, Scott Cook's intricate and expressive artwork is filled with energy, humor, and lots of eye-catching detail.  Together word and art paint a captivating portrait that just begs to be read aloud and shared.  With a glossary of words and terms, at the beginning, to help get you started, Lapin Plays Possum is storytelling at its very best, and is sure to be a folktale crowd pleaser that shouldn't be missed.	2002-09-30
1393248:US	52793250	R2HXGM31GIIC6C	0374343284	707221239	Lapin Plays Possum: Trickster Tales From the Louisiana Bayou	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Folktale Fun.....	Sharon Arms Doucet brings three &quot;trickster tales from the Louisiana bayou&quot; to life in this marvelous collection of Cajun, Creole folklore.  Meet Compere Bouki.  &quot;...He owned a farming field full of Delta soil so rich that if you planted a penny at sunrise, you could pick a dollar before sundown.  But as for smarts, he must have been hiding behind the barn door when they were passed out.&quot;  And meet his friend, prankster, Compere Lapin.  &quot;...He could find more ways to get out of work than there are fleas on a possum.  But Lapin, him, he'd got an extra helping of smarts.&quot;  Bring this dynamic duo together, and you have the makings of engaging and entertaining stories that are sure to tickle the funnybone as Lapin cleverly outwits Bouki over and over again with his tricks and pranks.  Ms Doucet's witty text is sprinkled with French expressions and Bayou colloquialisms and phrases.  Illustrator, Scott Cook's intricate and expressive artwork is filled with energy, humor, and lots of eye-catching detail.  Together word and art paint a captivating portrait that just begs to be read aloud and shared.  With a glossary of words and terms, at the beginning, to help get you started, Lapin Plays Possum is storytelling at its very best, and is sure to be a folktale crowd pleaser that shouldn't be missed.	2002-09-30
1393288:US	52793250	R3E4RZC4J1A8L	0374343284	707221239	Lapin Plays Possum: Trickster Tales From the Louisiana Bayou	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Folktale Fun.....	Sharon Arms Doucet brings three &quot;trickster tales from the Louisiana bayou&quot; to life in this marvelous collection of Cajun, Creole folklore.  Meet Compere Bouki.  &quot;...He owned a farming field full of Delta soil so rich that if you planted a penny at sunrise, you could pick a dollar before sundown.  But as for smarts, he must have been hiding behind the barn door when they were passed out.&quot;  And meet his friend, prankster, Compere Lapin.  &quot;...He could find more ways to get out of work than there are fleas on a possum.  But Lapin, him, he'd got an extra helping of smarts.&quot;  Bring this dynamic duo together, and you have the makings of engaging and entertaining stories that are sure to tickle the funnybone as Lapin cleverly outwits Bouki over and over again with his tricks and pranks.  Ms Doucet's witty text is sprinkled with French expressions and Bayou colloquialisms and phrases.  Illustrator, Scott Cook's intricate and expressive artwork is filled with energy, humor, and lots of eye-catching detail.  Together word and art paint a captivating portrait that just begs to be read aloud and shared.  With a glossary of words and terms, at the beginning, to help get you started, Lapin Plays Possum is storytelling at its very best, and is sure to be a folktale crowd pleaser that shouldn't be missed.	2002-09-30
1393291:US	52793250	R2G0TCHCBNNVZ7	0374343284	707221239	Lapin Plays Possum: Trickster Tales From the Louisiana Bayou	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Folktale Fun.....	Sharon Arms Doucet brings three &quot;trickster tales from the Louisiana bayou&quot; to life in this marvelous collection of Cajun, Creole folklore.  Meet Compere Bouki.  &quot;...He owned a farming field full of Delta soil so rich that if you planted a penny at sunrise, you could pick a dollar before sundown.  But as for smarts, he must have been hiding behind the barn door when they were passed out.&quot;  And meet his friend, prankster, Compere Lapin.  &quot;...He could find more ways to get out of work than there are fleas on a possum.  But Lapin, him, he'd got an extra helping of smarts.&quot;  Bring this dynamic duo together, and you have the makings of engaging and entertaining stories that are sure to tickle the funnybone as Lapin cleverly outwits Bouki over and over again with his tricks and pranks.  Ms Doucet's witty text is sprinkled with French expressions and Bayou colloquialisms and phrases.  Illustrator, Scott Cook's intricate and expressive artwork is filled with energy, humor, and lots of eye-catching detail.  Together word and art paint a captivating portrait that just begs to be read aloud and shared.  With a glossary of words and terms, at the beginning, to help get you started, Lapin Plays Possum is storytelling at its very best, and is sure to be a folktale crowd pleaser that shouldn't be missed.	2002-09-30
1393310:US	52793250	R1K15Q0ODGCFMP	0374343284	707221239	Lapin Plays Possum: Trickster Tales From the Louisiana Bayou	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Folktale Fun.....	Sharon Arms Doucet brings three &quot;trickster tales from the Louisiana bayou&quot; to life in this marvelous collection of Cajun, Creole folklore.  Meet Compere Bouki.  &quot;...He owned a farming field full of Delta soil so rich that if you planted a penny at sunrise, you could pick a dollar before sundown.  But as for smarts, he must have been hiding behind the barn door when they were passed out.&quot;  And meet his friend, prankster, Compere Lapin.  &quot;...He could find more ways to get out of work than there are fleas on a possum.  But Lapin, him, he'd got an extra helping of smarts.&quot;  Bring this dynamic duo together, and you have the makings of engaging and entertaining stories that are sure to tickle the funnybone as Lapin cleverly outwits Bouki over and over again with his tricks and pranks.  Ms Doucet's witty text is sprinkled with French expressions and Bayou colloquialisms and phrases.  Illustrator, Scott Cook's intricate and expressive artwork is filled with energy, humor, and lots of eye-catching detail.  Together word and art paint a captivating portrait that just begs to be read aloud and shared.  With a glossary of words and terms, at the beginning, to help get you started, Lapin Plays Possum is storytelling at its very best, and is sure to be a folktale crowd pleaser that shouldn't be missed.	2002-09-30
1395531:US	52793250	R3K0JCM2F2QL8O	0152010785	270173081	The Ticky-Tacky Doll	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Starting School.....	&quot;Once there was a little girl who owned a ticky-tacky doll.  It was ticky, her mother said, because Grandmama had made it from sewing scraps.  And it was tacky because pieces of cloth hung from it like soft bits of hair...&quot;  The little girl loved her doll more than anything, and they were never apart.  And then one day everything changed.  It was time for the little girl to go to school.  &quot;When children go to school, toys are left behind.&quot;  With each day, the little girl grew sadder and sadder.  She didn't make friends or play with the other children.  She didn't learn her letters, or numbers, or even eat her snack.  &quot;What is wrong with this little girl? they asked.  No one knew.&quot;  But her wise grandmama knew, and had a clever solution to solve the little girl's problem.....Cynthia Rylant's heartwarming story of change and separation is told with great empathy and sensitivity.  Her gentle text is complemented by Harvey Stevenson's expressive illustrations, that change from dark somber tones of sadness to bright cheerful colors, as the little girl conquers her fears.  With its reassuring, happily-ever-after ending, The Ticky Tacky Doll is a wonderful story many youngsters will identify with, and makes a wonderful read-aloud the entire family can share and discuss together.	2002-09-27
1395600:US	52793250	R1APH39DOABIFO	0786806052	864804320	My World of Color	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Color My World.....	Come tag along with painter mouse and his apprentice, as they take the reader on a whimsical, color-filled adventure.  Margaret Wise Brown's simple and lyrical rhymes are engaging and introduce each of eleven colors.  But it's Loretta Krupinski's exquisite and imaginative illustrations that make this picture book a real standout.  Each dazzling two page spread is centered around one color, and the bold, bright, and busy artwork invites little ones to linger and explore.  With a creative summary of colors at the end, to help youngsters remember what they learned, My World Of Color is an interactive feast for the eyes, and a definite preschool crowd pleaser you don't want to miss.	2002-09-27
1396754:US	52793250	R1SG35SUZLZ3EC	0670035688	29424251	Signs for Sale	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Captivating Slice of Americana.....	&quot;...Papa is a traveling salesman.  He sells signs, neon signs, the ones that light up a shop, a street, a whole town.  This summer I am his helper.  Someday I'm going to sell signs, too.&quot;  It's time to hit the road with this charming young lady and her likable, smooth-talking dad.  Every morning, they pack their convertible with their new readerboard signs, drawings, and supplies and travel from small town to town, stopping at all the mom and pop businesses, Sophie's Diner, Kelly's Market, Hansen's Drugs, where a bright and inviting sign can make all the difference.....  Michele Benoit Slawson's engaging text is filled with magic as it transports readers back in time for a ride with a traveling salesman.  Bagram Ibatoulline's bold and colorful illustrations are rich in expressive, eye-catching detail.  Together, word and art offer a captivating slice of 1950's small town Americana.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Signs For Sale is a marvelous little gem of a book the whole family can read aloud and share, and a nostalgic peek at simpler, bygone times that shouldn't be missed.	2002-09-26
1398257:US	52793250	R10845GVR0QOZ6	0618073167	277117448	Alice Ramsey's Grand Adventure	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Alice Ramsey, Pioneer......	&quot;On June 9, 1909, Alice Ramsey drove out of New York City and into a grand adventure.  Alice Ramsey wanted to be the first woman to drive across America.  Alice's friend, Hermine, and her sisters-in-law, Nettie and Margaret, traveled with her...&quot;  So begins Don Brown's marvelous story of a little known young woman and her dream.  Mr Brown's engaging and informative text, told in an easy to read conversational style, is filled with enlightening details about how the trip progressed over its 59 day period.   Pigs clogged the road in Illinois, and railroad tracks slowed them down in Chicago and &quot;...the car bounced over mile after mile of rail until the women were dizzy.&quot;  Dirt roads became muddy and impassable when it rained, and as they traveled further west, there were no roads at all.  &quot;Alice followed telephone lines, hoping the wires would lead her to the next town.  It wasn't always successful-sometimes it left them even more lost.&quot;   And there were many mishaps and breakdowns along the way.  But as she crested the Sierra Mountains, Alice knew she was now in California and close to her goal.  &quot;Alice guided the Maxwell onto a ferry that carried them to San Fransisco.  When she rolled off the ferry behind the wheel of her Maxwell, Alice Ramsey became the first woman to have driven across America!  It was August 7, 1909, Fifty-nine days had passed since Alice left New York City.&quot;  Charming watercolor illustrations add just the right touch, and highlight the important events of the story.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Alice Ramsey's Grand Adventure is an inspiring tale, told by a gifted storyteller, that is sure to whet the appetite of adventurous readers and send them out looking for more.	2002-09-25
1398807:US	52793250	R3SLJ5NQ7XRJHS	0773733159	334207673	All on a Sleepy Night	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Music of the Night.....	&quot;In a little log house,/On a great green hill,/Under a shimmering sky;/One small boy,/On his grandparents' bed,/ Whispers &quot;goodnight&quot; with a sigh...&quot;  And as closes his eyes he's lulled to sleep by a chorus of comforting sounds.  The purr of the cat, thump of the dog's tail as he dreams, snore of his grandma, and whistle of his grandpa as they sleep.  He hears their pet bird ring the bell in her cage and ruffle her feathers, the gurgle of the old pipes, and the creak of the wooden floor.  The hum of the refrigerator and drip of the faucet sing along, as do the hoot of the owl, and the yip of foxes baying at the moon, the cry of the loon and the swish of the leaves in the trees beneath the northern lights.  This is the music of the night, a symphony of quiet and reassuring sounds.....  Shutta Crum's engaging and eloquent bedtime story is soft and lyrical, and lulls little ones to sleep with its soothing rhythm and lovely, gentle sound effects.  Sylvie Daigneault's evocative illustrations swirl around the pages in dreamy subdued greens and blues, and complement the text with a warm and cozy feeling.  Perfect for preschoolers, All On A Sleepy Night is a wonderful addition to bedtime reading, and is sure to become an instant family favorite.  &quot;Now one small boy,/On his grandparents' bed,/Is asleep and dreaming along;/Under a shimmering sky-/High on a great green hill-/In a little log house that is singing,/Singing its sleepy song.&quot;	2002-09-24
1399641:US	52793250	R2Y5DCSQSGZ1HN	0689844921	173577669	Dogs, Dogs, Dogs!	Books	5	1	1	N	N	For Dog Lovers Everywhere.....	Author, Leslea Newman and illustrator, Erika Oller are back with an engaging canine sequel to last year's Cats, Cats, Cats.  Meet these lovable pooches, and count them, with each page turn, as the pack grows from one to ten, and heads to the park for a rip roarin' dog day of fun.  &quot;Dogs chasing tennis balls, dogs chasing sticks/Dogs chasing butterflies, dogs doing tricks...&quot;  They drink from puddles and swim in the lake, dig holes in the grass, take naps, lie on their bellies, and roll on their backs.  And after a busy afternoon, the pack heads for home where they dropped off each friend, one by one.....  Ms Newman's joyous, rhyming text is filled with energy and rhythm, and complemented by Ms Oller's expressive watercolor illustrations.  Little ones will enjoy lingering over each two page spread, infused with lots of canine personality and humor.  Perfect for preschoolers, Dogs, Dogs, Dogs! is both a fun-filled counting book and dog lover's book, that shouldn't be missed.	2002-09-24
1399748:US	52793250	R3J8OHSD6CQLRY	0345447859	38131708	The Apprentice	Books	3	17	20	N	N	&quot;The Surgeon&quot; is Back.....	Boston Homicide Detective, Jane Rizzoli, still bears both the  physical and mental scars of her last, and almost deadly  encounter with Warren Hoyt, &quot;the surgeon,&quot; who methodically tortured, mutilated, and viciously murdered his victims in a killing spree that ended last year.  Thanks to Rizzoli, Hoyt is now behind bars, in a maximum security prison, and he's there for life.  So you can imagine her horror, when she's called to an eerily familiar crime scene, and it becomes immediately apparent that a copycat killer, soon dubbed &quot;the dominator,&quot; is on the loose and has taken over &quot;the surgeon's&quot; work.  As the body count rises, Hoyt escapes from prison and joins forces with his apprentice.  This very lethal pair are now hunting together, and their next target is Jane Rizzoli, the victim who got away.....  Tess Gerritsen is back with a sequel to last year's best-selling and cleverly plotted thriller, The Surgeon.  The Apprentice is a fast read, tense and suspenseful,  and filled with vivid scenes, and graphic descriptions.  But unfortunately, if you read The Surgeon, you'll find there's not much new here, just a rehash of last year's story.  The characters are well drawn and interesting, but the large chip on Rizzoli's shoulder, her drive to be always one better than any of her male counterparts, and her constant whining starts to get old and detracts from the story.  With a rushed and unsatisfying ending, that leaves several plot lines hanging and too many questions unanswered, The Apprentice is far from Ms Gerritsen's best.  For those looking for an intriguing and compelling thriller, read The Surgeon.	2002-09-23
1400036:US	52793250	R3BDHZ2S3SPKRB	0375821961	508714269	New York's Bravest	Books	5	0	2	N	N	In Honor of Firefighters Everywhere.....	&quot;...Mose was the most famous firefighter in New York City.  Eight feet tall, Mose had hands as big as Virginia hams.  His arms were so strong he could swim the Hudson River in two strokes.  When others ran away from danger, Mose ran toward it.&quot;  Mary Pope Osborne brings the fantastic, and ever-growing legend of 1840s firefighter, Mose Humphreys to life, in this picture book dedicated &quot;to the memory of the 343 New York City firefighters who gave their lives to save others on September 11, 2001.&quot;  Mose was a larger than life hero and &quot;...everyone knew if they ever needed help, they could count on Mose.&quot;  One night, a hotel fire near the Hudson River raged out of control, and Mose spent hours running in and out of the building saving everyone.  But as the sun came up, and the firefighters packed their equipment, no one could find Mose.  Hopefully, they waited, but Mose never returned.....  Ms Osborne's engaging text is both exciting and touching.  Illustrators, Steve Johnson's and Lou Fancher's lush and bold artwork captures the text beautifully, and is rich in expressive, eye-catching detail.  Together, word and art paint a marvelously entertaining tall tale that is relevant to the events of the past year.  And as the weeks and months passed, finally an old timer &quot;put the matter to rest.&quot;  &quot;...Mose is right here.  He's marchin' with us in our parades.  He's kickin' up his heels at our fancy dances.  He's skating by moonlight on the ice pond in the park.  And whenever we climb our ladders toward a blazing sky, he climbs with us.  Whenever we save folks, he saves them, too.  You see, that firefighter-he'll never leave us.  He's the very spirit of New York City.&quot;  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, New York's Bravest is an inspiring tribute, not just to the firefighters of 9/11, but to all the men and women who put their lives on the line daily, to ensure the safety of others, and is sure to open interesting and important discussions.	2002-09-23
1402610:US	52793250	R2RVU3M8X7RW3O	0689842805	74765336	Earthquack!	Books	5	6	6	N	N	What's Shaking.....	Little Chucky Ducky had just finished his morning swim when it happened.  &quot;He heard the ground grumble.  He felt the ground rumble.  And then, with a stumble, Chucky Ducky went down in a tumble!&quot;  The earth is crumbling.  It's a quake and he has to warn his friends.  He races around the barnyard, telling everyone, Lucy Goosey, Vickie, Nickie, and Rickie Chickie, Brewster Rooster who finally sounds the alarm even though &quot;...I only doodle-doo once a day,&quot; Sue Ewe and her kids, Sam and Pam Lamb, Nanny Goat, Iggy Piggy, and Merle Squirrel.  They all hear the grumble, feel the rumble, and see the crumble.  Now what are they going to do?  And that's when a wiley, wormy weasel, disguised as benign and helpful Herman Ermine steps onto the scene with a solution.....  Inspired by Henny Penny and his falling sky, Margie Palatini has written a fun-filled, manic romp that's sure to be a storytime crowd pleaser.  Her engaging text, filled with lots of humor, rhyme, rhythm, wordplay, puns, and alliteration, just begs to be read aloud, and is complemented by Barry Moser's bold, bright and expressive illustrations.  Each barnyard spread is rich in color, marvelous facial expressions, and eye-catching detail.  With a hilarious surprise twist at the end to set everything right once again, Earthquack is perfect for youngsters 3-7, and is a rollicking good time that shouldn't be missed.	2002-09-20
1403716:US	52793250	RQWD1P2YJSB8M	0525468870	730497947	The President and Mom's Apple Pie	Books	5	0	0	N	N	&quot;What is that Wonderful Aroma?&quot;	&quot;I remember that day in 1909 as if it were yesterday.  President Taft was coming to our town to dedicate the new flagpole!  No one had talked about anything else for weeks...&quot;  So begins our young narrator's story.  The entire small town had come down to the train station to greet the president.  Flags were flying, the Firemen's Band was playing and the crowd, all decked out in red, white, and blue was cheering.  Taft, all 300 pounds of him, squeezed through the train door and hopped nimbly off the train.  But before he could even shake the mayor's hand, or walk to the town's new flagpole, he stopped and sniffed the air.  &quot;What is that wonderful aroma?&quot; inquired the President.  He had a dreamy look on his face.&quot;  Leading the way, President Taft, with our young narrator's help, and all the townspeople trailing behind, begins a true gourmand's, taste-testing tour of all the eating establishments in town, to find the source of that mouth-watering smell.....  Using Taft's enormous size and large appetite as the basis for his story, Michael Garland spins a silly and hilarious tall tale.  The entertaining text begs to be read aloud, and is only outdone by his bold, bright, and busy computer generated artwork, filled with lots of humor and eye-catching, period detail.  Perfect for kids 4-8, The President And Mom's Apple Pie is an engaging, funny, manic romp through yesteryear, and a marvelous, illustrative feast for the eyes.	2002-09-19
1404531:US	52793250	R3VLT2CIU6DOVM	0689834357	362831187	Hello, Hello!	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Greetings from the Animal Kingdom.....	&quot;When two lions meet, How do they say hello?&quot;  Turn the page of Miriam Schlein's fun and imformative picture book and find out.  &quot;They rub their foreheads together, and make a humming noice... like this...HMMMM...  That's how two lions say hello.  Mmmmmm.  HELLO.&quot;  Now, see how polar bears, chimpanzees, wolves, and beavers, zebras, penquins, and elephants greet each other when they meet.....  Ms Schlein's simple explanations are engaging and creative, and complemented by illustrator, Daniel Kirk's bold and evocative artwork.  Together word and art offer easily understood animal behaviors, and then relate them back to humans.  &quot;How do you say hello?  With a smile?  With a wave?  With a shake of the hand?  With a bow?  With a hug?  With a kiss?  HELLO!&quot;  Perfect as a read aloud at story time, or for  use with a unit about animals, Hello, Hello is a preschool crowd pleaser, and early non-fiction at its very best.	2002-09-19
1405342:US	52793250	R1AUXFXJIEAFQG	0679426159	668262969	Standing in the Rainbow: A Novel	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Heartwarming, Witty, and Captivating.....	The year, 1946;  the place, Elmwood Springs, Missouri.  Life is good and filled with unlimited opportunities and promise, the future never seemed brighter, and spirits are lifted daily, by the &quot;lady with the smile in her voice,&quot; radio homemaker, Neighbor Dorothy Smith, as she passes along recipes, friendly advice, local news, and a little entertainment, each morning, from her living room on station WDOT.  Meet the Smith family, their friends, neighbors, and acquaintances, and revel in the joys of small town life, as Fannie Flagg takes the reader on an amazing fifty year odyssey, rich in insight, wisdom, humor, and truth.  This is storytelling at its very best, filled with interesting twists and surprises, vivid scenes, engaging writing, and clever dialogue.  But it's Ms Flagg's brilliant characterizations that make this book stand out and sparkle.  These are complex and endearing, real people, warts and all, not cliched, cartoon characters, and Ms Flagg is able to breathe life into each and every one of them.  Standing In The Rainbow is an intriguing and captivating story, sometimes poignant, often uplifting, but always touching and heartwarming;  a story that captures the imagination as it pulls you in, and introduces a whole new generation to the simple wonders of living in a small town.  You'll laugh, you'll cry, but mostly you'll remember what it was like to walk with your family down a decorated Main Street at Christmas to buy your tree at the town lot for $1.50, sit on a stool and have a sundae at the drug store soda fountain, watch a whole afternoon of movies, every Saturday, for a nickle, and listen to the voice of a friendly &quot;neighbor&quot; each day on the radio.  And there was never a doubt that &quot;something wonderful was always just about to happen...&quot;	2002-09-18
1405453:US	52793250	R107TK3JRB2ZHG	0803726406	478994535	Never Eat Anything that Moves!: Good, Bad, and Very Silly Advice from Kids	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sage Advice from the Young.....	Robert Bender, author of Lima Beans Would Be Illegal, polled thousands of schoolchildren around the country to find out what important advice they would give other kids and grown-ups, wrote it all down, and came up with this must read, down to earth  book, Never Eat Anything That Moves: Good, Bad, and Very Silly Advice from Kids.  Some entries are thoughtful... &quot;Be the kind of person that you would like to know.&quot;  &quot;Old people aren't as old as you think.&quot;  &quot;Your worst may be someone else's best.&quot;  Some are silly...  &quot;Don't cross the monkey bars without underwear.&quot;  &quot;Spraying your hair with milk and then drying it doesn't dye your hair blonde.&quot;  &quot;Make sure the fish is dead before you flush it.&quot;  And some are just plain weird...  &quot;Don't put a bee on a leash.&quot;  &quot;Never eat a magnet when you have braces.&quot;  &quot;Use Brussels sprouts for golf balls.&quot;  But each piece of sage advice is kid tested and filled with insight, wisdom, and definitely, lots of humor.  So as Mr Bender tells us at the end...  &quot;Don't forget to have fun when you grow up.  We're all kids at heart.&quot;  Read, learn, and enjoy!	2002-09-18
1410148:US	52793250	R3CS25IDBMA2YX	0060287632	431115810	Betsy Who Cried Wolf	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fractured Folktale Fun.....	&quot;On her eighth birthday, Betsy took the Shepherds' Oath.  She was going to be the best shepherd in Bray Valley history.  And any wolf who tried to eat her sheep had better watch out!&quot;  Well Zimmo, the last wolf on the mountain, had other ideas.  He was very hungry and he had a plan to outwit this new shepherd.  The next day, just as Betsy was getting started, Zimmo appeared.  Quickly, she blew her whistle and cried wolf, and the townspeople came running.  But when they arrived, all they saw was Betsy and the sheep.  Zimmo had cleverly disappeared.  Betsy got a lecture.  Later in the day, the whole episode repeated itself, and this time, Betsy was sent back to Shepherd School for a little refresher course.  The next morning, the town decided to give her one last chance.  She took the sheep up to the pasture and there was the wolf again.  But this time, Betsy takes matters into her own hands.....  Gail Carson Levine's comical twist on the old, Boy Who Cried Wolf folktale, stars a feisty and endearing heroine, but the story is a bit too pat and predictable, lacks the drama of the original, and concludes with a silly ending that just doesn't ring true.  The real star of this book is illustrator, Scott Nash.  His bold, bright, and hilarious, cartoon-like illustrations, complete with witty, sheep asides and thought balloons are engaging, expressive, and filled with eye-catching detail.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Betsy Who Cried Wolf is not the best of the fractured folktale/fairy tale genre, but it's worth a read, if only for a peek at Nash's wonderful artwork.	2002-09-13
1412086:US	52793250	R1XG4582YOH2A6	0689833482	389863784	Sailor Boy Jig	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Everybody Dance.....	&quot;With a yo ho ho/and a bucket of fun,/here comes a sailor-/the jig has begun.&quot;  It's time to dance, and sailor boy, a happy pup in sailor suit and hat, complete with fishing pole and ready for a day on the high seas, is leading the way.  &quot;STAMP BIG/ stamp little/stamp little/STAMP BIG // Here comes a sailor/to dance a jig.&quot;  Now let's jump, dance, and step, BIG and little, LOUD and soft.  Little ones will revel in all the opposites fun.  Margaret Wise Brown's joyous, spare and lilting text begs to be read aloud, and is complemented by Dan Andreasen's bold and bright cartoon-like illustrations in ocean hues of blues and greens.  Perfect for kids 4 and younger who don't want to sit still, Sailor Boy Jig is a fun-filled, rhyming romp that's sure to be a big hit with the preschool crowd.	2002-09-11
1412886:US	52793250	RYBPMW9RMSIXE	1584690348	696620007	Seashells by the Seashore	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Seashell Fun.....	&quot;Sue walks along the seashore/warmed by the sun./Picking up seashells one by one...&quot;  Author, Marianne Berkes, takes readers on a wondrous seaside adventure in her third picture book, Seashells By The Seashore.  Come count the beautiful shells, learn their names, and watch your collection grow on the lefthand border of each two page spread as you walk along the beach.....  Ms Berkes lilting, rhyming text is engaging and complemented by Robert Noreika's captivating watercolor illustrations.  Together, word and art send you to the beach on a hot summer day, and you'll almost be able to feel the sand between your toes, hear the crash of the waves, and smell the salty sea air.  Additional information about each shell and the mollusks that live inside can be found at the end of the book, and young nature detectives, ages 4-8, will revel in this joyous, fun-filled hike along the shore.	2002-09-11
1413017:US	52793250	R7MYLCX1354C3	0688164943	555128421	Building	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Art of Construction, Step by Step.....	&quot;This is a deserted lot.  It sits between two buildings not far from downtown.  It's mostly dirt, with a few tufts of grass, some weeds, and two trees with peeling bark.  It's covered with broken glass and trash.  A chain-link fence keeps people out...&quot;  So begins Elisha Cooper's tribute to construction.  An architect arrives with plans and surveyors.  Then a backhoe &quot;scoops up dirt like a messy eater.&quot;  Soon trucks filled with building materials come, along with the many workers ready to transform this once vacant lot into a new and beautiful building.  Watch workers spread and smooth concrete, saw and nail boards, seal and caulk the roof, windows, and doorways, install insulation, and build new floors, walls, and stairs.  Next come the electricians, plumbers, and painters to finish the inside and get it ready for people.....  Mr Cooper's lyrical text is engaging and fascinating as it moves up, down, and across the pages mimicking the building process.  His watercolor and pencil illustrations capture the small details in the text and complement the story beautifully.  Together, word and art offer a creative and informative lesson in how a building comes to life.  Perfect for youngsters 5-10, Building is an imaginative and evocative experience.  &quot;This is a building.  It stands between two other buildings not far from downtown.  It stands empty, waiting to be filled with people.  You can't hear the hammering, can't smell the concrete, can't taste the fried chicken, can't see the measured beams.  But they are all part of the building, and you can feel them.&quot;	2002-09-10
1413852:US	52793250	R2L3SSB84X5ODX	0152164189	371452241	Arithme-Tickle: An Even Number of Odd Riddle-Rhymes	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sharpen Your Pencil.....	Math is fun, loads of fun, in this delightful collection of eighteen rhyming riddles.  J Patrick Lewis challenges kids to sharpen their pencils and use their brains to solve these clever word puzzles.  With a little addition here, some subtraction there, or maybe multiplication, and division you'll find the answer in no time.  Frank Remkiewicz's bold, bright, and charming illustrations add to the fun.  With an answer key provided at the bottom of each page, explaining how each brain-teaser was solved, Arithme-Tickle is a zany romp that's perfect for young math whizzes 8 and older.  So join in all the fun, and let the games begin!	2002-09-10
1414229:US	52793250	R1IYAVEALFL6J2	0060283637	117356664	Patrol: An American Soldier in Vietnam	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Realities of War.....	&quot;The land of my enemy has wide valleys, mountains that stretch along the far horizon, rushing brown rivers, and thick green forest.  My squad of nine men are in the forest.  Above me, birds twitter nervously in the treetops.  Insects and small animals scurry through the underbrush, trying to avoid the crush of my combat boots.  The squad leader raises his hand.  We stop.  The sound of my breath is soft in the morning air.  Somewhere in the forest, hidden in the shadows, is the enemy.  He knows I have come to kill him.  He waits for me...&quot;  Walter Dean Myer's autobiographical picture book chronicles a day in the life of one soldier, on patrol, in the jungles of Viet Nam.  His spare, poetic text comes alive on the page, and takes the glamor and excitement out of war as you trudge through the difficult, hot terrain, ever vigilant.  &quot;We move again.  We are always moving.  My legs ache.  My shoulders sag.  My thousand eyes look for death in the waving bamboo fields.&quot;  You can feel the smooth wooden stock of the soldier's rifle, the cold sweat running down his back, the fear and trembling as shots are fired and bombs explode, and the rapid beating of his heart.  &quot;I think I see the enemy.  I reload and shoot again.  It is only a shadow, but I do not stop shooting.  In war, shadows are enemies, too.&quot;   But mostly, you feel the weariness and futility.  &quot;I am so tired.  I am so very tired of this war.&quot;  Ann Grifalconi's stunning, multi-media collages are evocative and gripping, and together word and art paint an eloquent and powerfully vivid portrait of the Viet Nam War.  Perfect for youngsters 9-12, Patrol: An American Soldier In Vietnam is a haunting experience that shouldn't be missed, and definitely one of the best new books of 2002.	2002-09-09
1414419:US	52793250	R2I3LEYSVM2LN6	0786805684	394193021	Ella Fitzgerald: The Tale of a Vocal Virtuosa	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Tribute to the First Lady of Song.....	&quot;You may think I look like any other cat.  But baby, I'm in a class all by myself.  Scat Cat's my name.  Scat Cat Monroe.  A name I've earned.  Got my name from knowin' Ella.  Ella Fitzgerald.  The Queen of Scat.  What's scat? you ask.  Scat's the sound that don't hold back.  Ella's sound-that was scat.  Singing so supreme.  Music's velvet-ribbon dream...&quot;  Narrated by this cool, zoot suited feline, Scat Cat Monroe introduces the incomparable, Ella Fitzgerald, to a whole new generation of fans.  From her humble beginnings in Yonkers, New York, to her contest winning debut at Harlem's Apollo Theater at seventeen, to her meteoric rise, singing with the big bands and jazz artists of the 1930s and '40s, Scat Cat was there, stompin' at the Savoy with the Chick Webb Orchestra and jammin' to cloud nine and back with Dizzy Gillespie.  &quot;Now, when Ella performed, she let her lyrics go.  She took her singing out to play.&quot;  Andrea Davis Pinkney's engaging, lyrical text swings with imagery, magic, and rhythm.  Brian Pinkney's bold, bright, and inventive illustrations dazzle, as they swirl around the pages to the music of the words.  Together, word and art create an inspiring and captivating introductory biography starring the First Lady of Song.  With an Author's Note at the end to complete the story, Ella Fitzgerald is an energetic, fun-filled tribute, that's perfect for music lovers 8-12, and also works well as a read-aloud for younger children.	2002-09-09
1414710:US	52793250	R3BD6686C0MTWA	0689829132	278666564	Shoeless Joe and Black Betsy	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Joe Jackson and his Partner, Betsy.....	&quot;Shoeless Joe Jackson once played an entire baseball game in his stocking feet.  That's why they called him Shoeless Joe.  Some say he was the greatest baseball player ever.  Even the mighty Babe Ruth copied his swing.  But what most people don't know is just how Shoeless Joe became such a great hitter...&quot;  So begins Phil Bildner's engaging tale about Joe Jackson's infamous bat, Betsy.  It was a hitting slump that sent Joe to bat smith, Charlie Ferguson.  He wanted a special bat that &quot;pitchers are going to honor and respect&quot; and he knew Ol' Charlie was the man to make it.  After several trials and errors, Betsy came to life, 36 inches long, and 48 ounces, she was made out of hickory from the strong, north side of the tree, and stained black with tobacco juice to &quot;make her dark and scary-looking.&quot;  And with the help of Betsy at the plate, Shoeless Joe Jackson batted .408 his rookie year.  &quot;And to this day, no rookie has ever had a finer year than Shoeless Joe.&quot;  Shoeless Joe &amp; Black Betsy is more fable than biography, and Mr Bildner takes a lot of liberties with the facts.  But his text is entertaining, and filled with humor and lots of back woods colloquialisms that make this picture book perfect for reading aloud.  C. F. Payne's marvelously expressive and detailed illustrations are captivating, and add just the right touch of drama to bring the story to life.  With a comprehensive Afterword and &quot;baseball card&quot;  full of facts, figures, and statistics to complete the story, Shoeless Joe &amp; Black Betsy is a fine debut that is sure to whet the appetite of baseball fans 5-10, and send them out looking for more.	2002-09-09
1419148:US	52793250	R1JMMNNYZC2UPT	0805068481	221607811	Alphabet Under Construction	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Creative, Inventive, and Lots of Fun.....	Dear little mouse has a big job to do, building the entire alphabet with art supplies and construction tools, and he gets right to work Airbrushing the A, Buttoning the B, and Carving the C.  And as he moves quickly, letter by letter, Folding the F, Measuring the M, Pruning the P, Vacuuming the V, or Zipping the Z, little ones will revel in all the creative fun.  Author, Denise Fleming's text is kept to a bare minimum, just the letter and construction verb.  It's her big, bold, and vibrant artwork, dazzling with entertaining details and engaging humor, that makes this book stand out.  Perfect for preschoolers, Alphabet Under Construction is not just another &quot;learn your letters&quot; picture book, but an imaginative and inventive, joyous romp that shouldn't be missed.	2002-09-05
1419348:US	52793250	RLVHCLFA76WNJ	0811821684	82796066	Stars in the Darkness	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Powerfully Evocative and Compelling.....	&quot;Sometimes, Mama and me look down at the street and pretend it's not the city.  We shut out eyes so only a crack is open, lookin' through our eyelshes, and pretend we live on the moon.  The lights we see?  They're stars, as many as the sky can hold.  And sirens?  That's wild wolves howlin' at the moon.  If there's shots fired, we say it's the light of the stars crackin' the darkness...&quot;  So begins Barbara Joosse's nameless young narrator's story of the dangerous and tenuous life in the inner city.  When his beloved brother, Richard, stops coming home at night, he and his mother realize he's become a gang banger.  &quot;We can't pretend no more,&quot; she says.  &quot;We gotta be strong now.&quot;  His mother implores him, &quot;Don't you be hanging' out with those bangers, Richard.  Don't.  Be somebody for this world.&quot;  But Richard is caught up in the life, &quot;walkin' that walk, like he's King Stuff.&quot;  When Richard comes home injured and bandaged, Mama and Richard's little brother hatch a plan, a plan to take back the neighborhood.  &quot;We call 'em Peace Walks.  Every night now, there's family on the street.  We take turns walkin' the night.  When it's my turn, I shut my eyes so only a slit is open, and I look through my eyelashes.  I see streetlights, like before, but now I see flashlights, too.  Stars crackin' the darkness.&quot;  Ms  Joosse's bittersweet picture book, geared to little brothers and sisters, &quot;the stars in the darkness,&quot; is neither judgemental nor sentimental, but truthful and filled with hope.  Her evocative text, rich in imagery and magic, is compelling, written in realistic language and complemented by Gregory Christie's powerfully bold and expressive illustrations.  Together word and art paint a vivid portrait of life in the inner city, family love, and the courage and strength to try and make a difference.  With an Author's Note about the real Richard, to enhance the story and help open important discussions,and a comprehensive list of resources on gang prevention, Stars In The Darkness is an inspiring narrative that shouldn't be missed, and definitely one of the best new books of 2002.  Kudos to Joosse and Christie.	2002-09-04
1420962:US	52793250	RE9U1YXBH0CKI	0689845634	387631168	First Day	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Who's Ready for the First Day of School.....	It's Haybillybun's very first day at Yappy Puppy Play School, and this fluffy little canine isn't so sure he wants to go.  He's afraid that his &quot;slip-slidey-fluffy feet&quot; will keep him from running fast or make him fall off the jungle gym, or that he won't be able to hear the teacher with his &quot;horrible fuzzy ears.&quot;  He worries that no one will want to play with him, and that his eyes are scary, and his name's too long.  But Mom and Dad have a common-sense, comforting answer to all his concerns, and so off to school he goes.  &quot;Haybillybun stayed at school, and his mother went home...&quot;  But after a couple of hours of household chores, Haybillybun's mother begins to become anxious, puts on her hat and rushes back to school to &quot;rescue her darling boy.&quot;  As she peeks over the fence and into the classroom, she finds that Haybillybun is having the time of his life, playing and painting and making new friends.....  Joan Rankin really captures the first day jitters of both parents and kids, in this gentle and reassuring picture book.  Her cheerful and energetic text begs to be read aloud, and is filled with silly names and humorous dialogue.  Bold, bright, and busy illustrations enhance the story with engaging details, and little ones will enjoy lingering over each picture before turning the page.  Perfect for preschoolers getting ready for their own big, first day of school, First Day is a fun and heartwarming story that shouldn't be missed.	2002-09-03
1421273:US	52793250	R11NN7JPPNG6FR	0805064664	91977614	If the Shoe Fits	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Home Sweet Home.....	&quot;There was an old woman who lived in a shoe./She had so many children, she didn't know what to do./She gave them some broth without any bread,/Then took them to live in a new home instead...&quot;  So begins Alison Jackson's creative and humorous twist on the old classic Women in the Shoe nursery rhyme.  The poor woman and her enormous brood try out a myriad of places, including the cat and the fiddle's hat, Humpty Dumpty's wall, Little Miss Muffet's teacup, Old Mother Hubbard's cupboard, and Hickory Dickory Dock's clock, but no place feels right.  And so in the end &quot;...If the shoe fits, then wear it,&quot; she said to her clan./And she led them right back where this story began...&quot;  Ms Jackson's energetic, rhyming, chain of events story is filled with familiar nursery rhyme characters, and little ones will revel in all the fun of identifying old friends and remembering their verses.  Karla Firehammer's engaging illustrations, in soft pastel tones, are rich in entertaining details and marvelous facial expressions.  Perfect for preschoolers, If The Shoe Fits is a wonderful, fun-filled romp kids will want to read again and again, and is sure to become an instant favorite at your house.	2002-09-03
1423011:US	52793250	R35E1SDQFJJD0S	0374399662	769247437	Bitter Dumplings	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Bitter Beginnings, Sweet Future.....	&quot;Long ago in the middle kingdom, in a village by the sea, there lived a girl called Mei Mei.  She was a girl with no prospects.&quot;  So begins Jeanne Lee's evocative folktale set in a fifteenth century Chinese village.  When Mei Mei's father dies on the eve of her wedding, her brothers use her dowry to pay for an extravagant funeral, then take all his possessions for themselves, and throw her out of the house.  Unable to marry and shunned by the village, she eventually finds work and shelter with the crippled old woman, Po Po, another outcast who makes and sells her bitter dumplings each day at the market.  When the Emperor's treasure fleet sails into the harbor, a ship's slave escapes, and asks the two women to hide him, and this, the three find is the start of a new beginning for all of them.....  Ms Lee's dramatic text is filled with history as her story unfolds, slowly, towards its happy and satisfying conclusion, and is complemented by eloquent illustrations in soft and muted colors.  Together, word and art transport the reader to a far-away place and time.  With an author's note filled with historical details that enhance the story, Bitter Dumplings is an engaging tale, perfect for youngsters 7-10, or as a read-aloud for younger children.	2002-09-01
1423497:US	52793250	R1DG7F24RQ7LIM	0786889691	338298919	The Blue Hour	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Tight, Tense, and Suspenseful.....	Detective Merci Rayborn is smart, talented, ambitious, and also very rough around the edges.  By Sheriff Department standards she's pretty unpopular, and does not work or play well with others.  Retired detective, Tim Hess, has seen it all and then some during his forty plus years on the job.  Three times divorced and fighting lung cancer, he's back on the payroll as a full-time consultant.  He needs the benefits.  This unlikely, mismatched team is hand picked to catch the &quot;Purse Snatcher&quot;, a serial killer who abducts attractive women from Orange County malls, leaving behind only their purses and lots of blood in remote locations.  With no bodies or other forensic evidence, and very little else to go on, Hess and Rayborn dig deep, working every conceivable angle to draw this killer out in the open, and hopefully push him to make a mistake.....  T Jefferson Parker has written a masterpiece of suspense that grabs you from page one and never lets go.  The writing is crisp, vivid, and intelligent, and the dialogue rings true.  His intricate and compelling plot cleverly twists and turns, keeping the reader off-balance and guessing, and is filled with intense, riveting scenes.  Mr Parker's indepth knowledge of Southern California, law enforcement, and police procedures adds real credibility to the story.  But it's his brilliant characterizations that make this thriller stand out and sparkle.  These are well defined, real people, sometimes heroic and well-meaning, often flawed and chasing their own internal demons, and Parker breathes life into even the most minor of characters.  The Blue Hour is the first book of a superb series that just gets better with each installment, and those who have not yet met Merci Rayborn should begin here, at the beginning, and read them all.	2002-08-31
1426232:US	52793250	R1AVD2I2HABVDY	0803727887	465789091	The Mysterious Tadpole: 25th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Happy Birthday, Alphonse.....	Louis' Uncle McAllister lives in Scotland and every year sends Louis the best birthday present.  And this year was no different, a tadpole, Louis names Alphonse.  But it soon becomes apparent that Alphonse is not your normal, everyday tadpole and definitely not turning into a frog.  He soon outgrows his jar, then the kitchen sink, and bathtub.  Louis sneaks him into the school swimming pool during summer vacation, and that works out just fine until fall when school opens.  In a panic Louis consults Miss Seevers, the librarian.  Librarians always have all the answers, and Miss Seevers doesn't let him down.  With a phone call to Scotland, a little research, and a lot of ingenuity, Louis and Miss Severs find a clever solution and happily-ever-after ending to their problem.....  First published twenty-five years ago, Steven Kellogg's creative classic, The Mysterious Tadpole, is as fresh and entertaining today as it was back in 1977.  Mr Kellogg has given his new illustrations a bold and bright facelift, and tweaked the text a bit, but the engaging and fun-filled story with its hilarious twist at the end, is still sure to capture the imagination and warm your heart.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, The Mysterious Tadpole is a timeless treasure to share with friends and family now, and future generations in the years to come.	2002-08-28
1426240:US	52793250	REJN667UPWZUL	0525468846	329604093	Miss Bindergarten Plans a Circus with Kindergarten	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Circus is Coming.....	&quot;There's much to do,&quot; says Miss B, &quot;to make this circus fun to see.&quot;  And Miss Bindergarten's alphabetically named kindergarten class gets right to work painting posters and decorating, designing costumes, numbering ticket, making refreshments, learning their parts, and practicing.  When the big day arrives family and friends watch as class members perform their acts and tricks, including a special treat by Miss Bindergarten, herself...&quot;the marvelous, the magnificent, the mysterious Jugglebee.....  Joseph Slate and Ashley Wolff are back and teacher extraordinare, Miss Bindergarten, is busier than ever.  Mr Slate's creative, joyous text is filled with rhyme, rhythm, and energy, and complemented by Ms Wolff's bold, bright, and busy illustrations.  Together this dynamic duo introduces letters and colors in a clever and exuberant, fun-filled romp.  Perfect for preschoolers, Miss Bindergarten Plans A Circus With Kindergarten is a wonderful addition to a fine series that shouldn't be missed.  Read them all and enjoy!	2002-08-28
1426392:US	52793250	R3S2NB3YXFRBJ5	0375915699	549111163	The Little French Whistle	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Whistle a Happy Tune.....	When cousin Louie comes to visit Josette, he brings along his little French whistle that Grand-pere brought back for him from Paris.  Josette likes the way it sounds, snappy and important when Louis plays it loudly.  And Louis does play loudly.  As he tells everyone, &quot;I don't like sweet.&quot;  &quot;I don't like soft.&quot; Unfortunately, no one else likes Louie's shrill blasts, not the birds who fly away, frightened Fonfon, the poodle, baby Roland, who cries, or even Grand-pere, surprised right out of his bubble bath.  But Louie finally goes too far when he scares Sheba, the cat.  She arches her back, hisses, and swats that little French whistle right out of his hand.  Now finally, a very patient Josette has her turn and she likes soft and sweet.....  Carole Lexa Schaefer's simple and humorous text begs to be read aloud, and is peppered with marvelous sound effects and charming french colloquialisms.  Emilie Chollat's illustrations dazzle with bright colors, bold and busy patterns, engaging facial expressions, and entertaining details.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, The Little French Whistle is a delightful, fun-filled read little ones will enjoy again and again.	2002-08-28
1427484:US	52793250	R2UB66YU2PHJRN	0399226591	940114356	Sunsets Of The West (Sweep, 12)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Westward Ho.....	&quot;Once a man felt a stirring in his heart, an itching to roam.  And he felt pinched for space.  He knew the stars of Maine.  He knew the blaze of fall leaves burning New Hampshire hills.  Still, he longed to know the endless prairie.  The Sierra with snow.  &quot;Gather your neccessaries, &quot; Pa said one day.  &quot;We're going West.&quot;  So begins Tony Johnston's engrossing narrative of a New England family's journey, across the wide prairies and desert sand, west to the Sierra mountains and what will become their new home.  His straightforward text is filled with drama, history and emotion as the family faces the many challenges of traveling months by covered wagon, losing their cow and chickens in rain swollen rivers, feeling the threat from wild animals and Native Americans trying to hold on to their land, struggling with hunger and thirst as food and water run out, and death.  Ted Lewin's powerfully evocative illustrations of sunfilled fields, dark and ominous nights, a buffalo stampede, and the red and golden sunrise over the Sierras brings the story to life.  Together word and art transport the reader back in time and takes you on  the arduous journey of a lifetime.  Perfect for youngsters 7-10, Sunsets Of The West is an inspiring story of the many trials, hope, bravery, and finally triumph.  &quot;The family built a house and tilled a patch of land.  Then they planted the seeds.  And the seeds grew tall.  Sometimes they remembered the stars of Maine.  Sometimes they recalled the blaze of fall leaves on New Hampshire hills.  But they had seen the endless prairie.  The Sierra with snow.  Their hearts were at rest.  They knew the sunsets of the West.&quot;	2002-08-27
1428089:US	52793250	R1SYFTY6CX1PQ0	0689850883	762365996	Olivia's Opposites	Books	4	1	2	N	N	More Olivia.....	Ian Falconer's, Olivia is back in all her irrespressible glory, and this time she's teaching little ones about opposites.  This simple and sturdy board book features pictures of our favorite little piglet, on each two page spread, demonstrating in imaginative ways the concepts of up and down, long and short, quiet and loud, plain and fancy, and open and closed.  Falconer's trademark black and white drawings, highlighted with splashes of red are engaging, and Olivia's personality and sense of style always shines through.  Though there is nothing really new here, youngsters three and under will be charmed and delighted.  Olivia's Opposites works well with Mr Falconer's other board book, Olivia Counts.	2002-08-27
1428281:US	52793250	R392111T1MNUD	0152024069	552609756	The Difference Between Babies & Cookies	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Whole Truth About Babies.....	&quot;Before my little sister was born, my mom tried to teach me about babies.  I listened carefully, but it's not as easy as you might think.  Even my mom gets mixed up sometimes...&quot;  Mom thinks babies are as sweet as cookies, cuddly as puppies, hungry as bears and smell like whipped cream.  But as our big sister narrator tells us, don't count on it.  You can't dip them in milk like cookies.  They drool a lot more than puppies.  They're not always so hungry, especially when you try to feed them mooshed peas, and as for the wonderful aroma, just wait until you smell a dirty diaper.  But they're awfully fun to play with, and as the little girl and her baby get to know each other, she finds Mom is right...babies are warm and soft, like sunshine on a rainy day and definitely a gift from the angels.....  Mary Hanson's simple, endearing text is complemented by Debbie Tilley's sweet and expressive illustrations.  Together word and art paint a captivating and engaging portrait of how wonderful a new addition to the family can be.  Perfect for preschoolers, The Difference Between Babies &amp; Cookies is a gentle and humorous story of growing love that is sure to touch your heart.  As our big sister tells us at the end...  &quot;I'm just glad I'm here to help take care of our baby.  She shouldn't grow up thinking she's a cookie.&quot;	2002-08-27
1428322:US	52793250	R2XQO24C7W0M02	0152021787	897248379	Pandora	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Marvelous Introduction to the Classic Myth.....	&quot;What was in the jar?/The jar that was closed tight/And not to be opened!/What was in the jar?/It was all Pandora could think of!&quot;  So begins Robert Burleigh's marvelous retelling of Pandora.  His poetic text written in easy to read, short sentences, is compelling and filled with excitement and drama as the tension builds toward the inevitable climax and hopeful ending.  Raul Colon's elegant and evocative illustrations complement the story beautifully, and together word and art bring the myth to life in rich detail.  With a character list and informative forward to enhance understanding of the story, Pandora is perfect for youngsters 8-12, and is an engaging introduction to Greek myths that shouldn't be missed.	2002-08-27
1429137:US	52793250	R3TLOGMPZT9QYY	1584300396	490965789	Jazz Baby	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Go Baby Go.....	&quot;Jazz baby, jazz baby,/join the band./You've got music/in your hands.&quot;  So begins Carole Boston Weatherford's engaging and entertaining romp, and little ones will be tapping feet, snapping fingers, playing real or imagined instruments, and dancing, bouncing, shimmying and jiggling to the jive of jazz.  Ms Weatherford's  rhyming text is filled with energy, rhythm, and motion, and complemented by Laura Freeman's bold and bright illustrations.  Each two page spread dazzles with color and sheer joy as children are pictured on a rainbow, note-filled background blowing horns, plinking keys, plunking strings, beating drums and moving to the music.  Perfect for preschoolers, Jazz Baby is a fun-filled, interactive celebration that is sure to become an instant family favorite.  &quot;Jazz baby, jazz baby,/hum a song./Let it rock you/all night long.&quot;	2002-08-26
1429162:US	52793250	R4FV7ARRUN20Y	0395597625	148747905	June 29, 1999	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Artichokes Advance on Anchorage.....	It all started in Ho-Ho-Kus, New Jersey on May 11, 1999.  Holly Evans launched her science experiment, flats of vegetable seedlings carried up into the ionosphere by weather balloons, to study &quot;the effects of extra-terrestrial conditions on vegetable growth and development.&quot;  Fast forward to June 29.  All over the country, enormous vegetables are seen floating to earth.  &quot;Cucumbers circle Kalamazoo.  Lima bearns loom over Levittown.  Artichokes advance on Anchorage.  Parsnips pass by Providence.  And broccoli lands with a big bounce in Holly Evans's backyard.&quot;  But when &quot;arugula covers Ashtabula&quot; , Holly begins to wonder about this veggie phenomenon.  Arugula was not a part of her experiment.....  David Wiesner's makes June 29th an unforgettable day in his entertaining classic, and imaginations will soar with each delightful page turn.  His minimal text, with its witty, dead-pan delivery, is filled with clever wordplay and alliteration.  But it's Mr Wiesner's marvelous illustrations that really make this book stand out and sparkle, and youngsters will enjoy lingering over each outrageously detailed and humorous picture.  With an inventive twist at the end to bring the whole story to its logical, though fantastic, conclusion, June 29, 1999 is a masterpiece you and your family don't want to miss.	2002-08-26
1433756:US	52793250	R256NCQXYC7MYU	9129655021	992921459	Most Beloved Sister	Books	3	8	12	N	N	A Secret Twin.....	Meet seven year old Barbara.  She has a secret no one knows, not even Mama or Papa.  She has a twin sister, Lalla-Lee, who lives in an enchanted world beneath the rosebush in a corner of the garden.  Lalla-Lee is queen and lives in the Golden Hall.  &quot;Papa likes Mama best, and Mama likes my little brother, who was born in the spring, best.  But Lalla-Lee just likes me.&quot;  Lalla-Lee never calls Barbara by her given name.  She always calls her &quot;Most Beloved Sister.&quot;  The sisters have a special language all their own, and enjoy marvelous adventures.  They ride their horses, Goldfoot and Silverfoot, through the Great Horrible Forest where the Frights live.  They visit The Kind Ones who bring them cookies and caramels, and ride to The Most Beautiful Valley in the World where the flowers sing and the stream hums.  But on this visit Lalla-Lee tells Barbara it's almost time for her to die, a secret Barbara doesn't want to hear.  &quot;Right then, I felt a pain in my heart.....&quot;  Astrid Lindgren, author of the Pippi Longstocking series, wrote this stand alone story about imaginary friendship over fifty years ago, but it wasn't published in the States until now.  Her wordy text doesn't sparkle or engage the reader and feels somewhat dated, and little ones may find the storyline as a whole, confusing, and the subject of a beloved sister's death, upsetting.  Hans Arnold's captivating illustrations are magical and rich in detail, and though youngsters will enjoy the artwork, the book really doesn't work for its chosen audience of 4-8 year olds.	2002-08-21
1433811:US	52793250	R3648FMLVI7D2D	0152017151	105217934	The Marvelous Mouse Man	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Follow Your Noses.....	&quot;Now settle down and listen well/To what I am about to tell/About the troubles that befell/A town and set it spinning./As such tales do, it started small,/With one wee mouse, just one, that's all,/Who one spring day came by to call-/And that was the beginning.&quot;  So begins Mary Ann Hoberman's kinder and gentler adaptation of the Pied Piper.  As the town is overrun with mice, the mayor looks far and wide for help, and an appealing red-caped stranger appears with a magic fan to take care of the job.  As he waves his fan, an odor wafts through the air.  It smells just awful to the villagers, but the mice find it alluring, and they follow the gentleman right out of town.  &quot;Some said it smelled of Brie from France,/While others swore 'twas Liederkranz/Or Gorgonzola, ripe, perchance,/Or Stilton, Swiss, or Edam...&quot;  With their problem finally solved, and the fee paid, the townspeople celebrate until they realize that their cats have followed the mice, and the dogs have chased after the cats.  In no time, the children, missing their pets, also leave town.  But never fear, unlike the original, this tale has a happy ending, as a little girl comes up with a creative and inventive solution that sets everything right again, in the end.....  Ms Hoberman's lyrical, rhyming text begs to be read aloud, and is only outdone by Laura Forman's delightful, old-fashioned artwork.  Intricate illustrations, in subdued and quiet tones are filled with charming detail, and little ones will enjoy lingering over each picture before turning the page.  Perfect for youngsters 5-9, The Marvelous Mouse Man tells an old story with a new and refreshing twist and is sure to become a family favorite.	2002-08-21
1434912:US	52793250	R421MYI1VLQ41	0060294191	735965383	Dance!	Books	5	2	2	N	N	It's Time to DANCE.....	Join author, Elisha Cooper, as he pays tribute to the marvelous world of dance.  This is a unique book about the process, not the performance.  Arrive at the studio and warm up with the troupe, stretching and working at the barre.  Meet the choreographer and watch as he demonstrates steps and teaches the new dance, bending bodies and correcting positions &quot;as if he were molding clay.&quot;  Then practice, practice, practice.  &quot;The dancers rehearse until their arms and legs remember the steps.&quot;  There are costumes to fit, tickets to sell, programs to print, and advertisements to write.  Lights, music, and scenery need to be coordinated with the dance and dancers, and even flowers need to be bought to give to the dancers after the performance.  So much to do in only four short weeks...  Mr Cooper's lyrical text is filled with imagery, magic, and passion as it creatively mimics its subject and dances across the pages.  His simple pencil and watercolor artwork dazzles, complementing the prose beautifully, and captivates with grace, energy, and motion.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, or as a read aloud for younger children, Dance is an evocative and exciting experience that builds with each page turn.  &quot;Opening night.  A crowd forms outside the theater, bustling for tickets.  The dancers gather backstage.  They can hear the buzz of the audience finding seats, the beating of their own hearts.  They hug.  The choreographer tells them they are wonderful.  The lights go down.  The curtain goes up.&quot;	2002-08-20
1435453:US	52793250	RUKJ538YEHE7S	0525468323	136740235	The Dancing Deer and the Foolish Hunter	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Clever, Funny, and Engaging.....	One day, deep in the forest, a hunter comes upon a dancing deer.  &quot;Would you look at that!&quot; the hunter said, setting down his gun.  &quot;Wowie-kazowie, a dancing deer!  A deer I can sell to the circus!  Great gumballs-my fortune is made!&quot;  He lassos the little deer and takes her home with him.  When he commands her to dance, she informs him that she needs music, the beautiful song of the birds to dance.  The hunter goes back out to the woods, and captures two song birds.  But the birds are too shy to sing without the wind whistling through the pine trees.  The hunter digs up two small pines and brings them home, but they won't whistle without the gentle sea breeze, and of course the sea breeze won't blow without the &quot;moving, inspiring&quot; sea, and so on, and so forth.  The poor exasperated hunter finds nothing will work the way it's supposed to.  He'll never be able to sell the deer to the circus, and he'll never be rich.  &quot;Hunter!  Stop your foolishness!&quot;  the deer cried.  &quot;Just put me back in the deep green forest, along with everything else, and I'll dance all by myself!&quot;  Elisa Kleven's original, action-packed, chain of events story, based on the John Muir quote, &quot;whenever we try to isolate anything in the universe, we find that it's hitched up to everthing else,&quot; is filled with humor and the gentle message of interdependence and harmony in nature, that won't be lost on young readers.  Her engaging text, with its zippy dialogue and wonderful sound effects, begs to be read aloud, and is enhanced by charming bold, bright, and busy illustrations.  With a unique and satisfying, happily-ever-after ending to set everything right again, The Dancing Deer And The Foolish Hunter is a delightful, manic romp youngsters 3-7 won't want to miss, and is sure to be a storytime favorite.	2002-08-20
1438931:US	52793250	R2CLM73R724YZ7	0761315349	151411749	Across a Dark and Wild Sea (Single Titles)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The Man Who Loved Books.....	&quot;Columcille was born in 521.  He was the son of a king, from a corner of Ireland scrubbed hard by ocean winds, in a time that came to be known as the dark ages...&quot;  So begins Don Brown's marvelous picture book biography of the scribe and monk, known now as Saint Columba.  Brown traces the Celtic legend of this  remarkable man who desperately wanted to bring learning and books back into the world after much was lost with the fall of the Roman Empire.  After a bloody war was waged over the copying and ownership of a special book of psalms, Columcille left Ireland forever and with twelve followers &quot;set sail on a dark and wild sea.&quot;  Landing on the tiny Scottish island of Iona, he and his followers built a monastery and scriptorium where books were copied and scribes were trained.  &quot;Books were made and dispatched, like small boats on a dark and wild sea, to places where reading and writing had been forgotten or ignored.  The books made colonies of learning, and people's minds, once dark with ignorance, were brightened.&quot;  Mr Brown's poetic text is filled with imagery, is rich in history and drama and complemented by powerful and evocative artwork in quiet and subdued tones.  Together word and art bring Columcille's inspiring story to life with passion and respect.  Perfect for youngsters 8 and older, or as a read aloud for younger children, Across A Dark And Wild Sea includes an Author's Note to enhance and complete the story, the Unical alphabet used by scribes, and a bibliography.  This is a rare and wonderful story celebrating books and learning, that shouldn't be missed.  &quot;Columcille, the man who loved books, helped the world love books.  So we remember him and retell his story.&quot;	2002-08-16
1439769:US	52793250	R28QZB4SAOH11V	0399234330	397625998	When Mommy Was Mad	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Is Mommy Mad.....	&quot;Something was wrong with Mommy.  She burned the toast.  She banged the pots and pans.  And she forgot to kiss Daddy good-bye...&quot;  Little Robbie and his brother Christopher are worried.  Why is Mommy mad?  Is it something they did wrong?  They can't think of anything they've done to put Mommy in such a bad mood.  Maybe she's mad at Daddy.  Robbie wants a story and a snuggle and a smile, &quot;but Mommy did not look very soft.  Mommy looked prickly.  All over&quot;  This starts to make Robbie feel cranky, too.  Eventually, he finds a way to get Mommy's attention, and out of this prickly situation comes a simple and heartwarming solution to a bad mood.....  Lynne Jonell's easy to read text really captures the discomfort little ones feel when they don't understand an adult's sudden mood change.  Petra Mathers' childlike illustrations, with their marvelous facial expressions, complement the story with engaging stick-figure artwork, in colorful crayon.  Perfect for preschoolers, When Mommy Was Mad should open interesting discussions about bad moods, emotions, and the feelings we all have from time to time and how to cope.	2002-08-16
1441973:US	52793250	R3LPF49OPEAQHG	0892391510	703773268	I See the Rhythm (Coretta Scott King Illustrator Award Winner)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Rejoice in the Music.....	&quot;I see the rhythm.  I see the rhythm of our beginnings.  I feel the pulse of a people and a land in harmony.  I hear the legends told by the drum, the beats of our beliefs, the music of our ancient history...&quot;  From its roots in Africa and slave songs, to the birth of the blues, ragtime, swing, jazz, and gospel, to rhythm and blues, rock and roll, hip hop, funk, and rap, Toyomi Igus and Michele Wood trace the history of African American music.  Ms Igus' lyrical free verse, rich in imagery and magic, is powerful and evocative as it swirls creatively around the page, and is complemented by Ms Wood's stunning illustrations, full of emotion and drama that captures both the feel of the music and the times.  Each two page spread also includes a brief description of the musical style, and a marvelous timeline that sets that musical period in its larger, historical context.  Perfect for youngsters 10 and older, I See The Rhythm is an inspiring feast for the eyes and ears that celebrates African American music and brings it to life on the page, and is a terrific introduction that shouldn't be missed.	2002-08-14
1443629:US	52793250	R213CECEK4G6CT	0689844867	162623965	The Brave Little Seamstress	Books	5	8	8	N	N	&quot;Seven With One Blow!&quot;	&quot;One summer day a little seamstress sat by her window, eating bread and jam.  When the jam attracted a swarm of flies, she tried to wave them away.  But the flies, who didn't speak English, kept coming back.  Finally the little seamstress lost her patience.  She grabbed a cloth and swung it at the windowsill...&quot;  Looking down, the little seamstress was astonished to find that she had killed seven.  She considered this feat so remarkable, that she embroidered her success on the back of her favorite coat.  &quot;Seven with one blow!&quot;  Well, the world needed to hear about this, and so the little seamstress put on her coat and set out on what turns out to be the adventure of a lifetime.  Unfortunately, her message is misunderstood by everyone who sees it, and before her journey's  finished, and she's living happily-ever-after as a good and wise queen, the little seamstress needs to outwit giants,  capture a unicorn and a wild boar, and finally outsmart a not so nice king.....  Mary Pope Osborne and Giselle Potter are back, and those who loved their first &quot;female revisionist&quot; fairy tale, Kate And The Beanstalk, will be delighted with this latest offering.  Based on the old Brothers Grimm story, The Brave Little Tailor, this dynamic duo again give their spirited retelling a decidedly feminist twist.  Ms Osborne's engaging text is filled with wit, and kids will be rooting for their resourceful and sassy heroine as she meets and conquers each challenge.  Ms Potter's marvelously clever illustrations are rich in humor and eye-catching detail and capture the story beautifully.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Brave Little Seamstress is an entertaining, fun-filled read you definitely don't want to miss.	2002-08-12
1443712:US	52793250	RYMN0V073R3ZI	076131850X	468302321	Marsh Music	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Night, Magic, and Music.....	&quot;The rain has stopped./Night is coming./The pond awakes with/quiet humming. // Maestro frog hops to the mound/As night begins to fill with sound./Peepers peep pe-ep, peep, peep./They have had a good day's sleep...&quot;  Lit by fireflies and stars &quot;...twinkling to the tune/As they dance around the moon...&quot; the concert begins.  Frogs of all shapes and sizes join together to make music in the marsh.  These are the  beautiful, wondrous sounds that begin quietly and slowly at dusk, and build, louder and faster, as the night stretches on towards dawn.....  Marianne Berkes' inspiring, lyrical text is rich in imagery and magic and is filled with energy, rhythm, rhyme, and marvelous sound effects.  Robert Noreika's evocative watercolor illustrations dazzle, and together word and art bring the marsh and its inhabitants to life.  Part nature book, part music book, Marsh Music includes a glossary of musical terms and informative descriptions of the eleven types of frogs we meet in the &quot;orchestra&quot;.  This is a lovely and engaging picture book, perfect for bedtime reading, that youngsters 4-8 definitely shouldn't miss.  &quot;But now it's dawn./The stars are gone./Maestro puts down his baton. // That's all my friends./It's time to go./Tonight there'll be/another show.&quot;	2002-08-12
1447279:US	52793250	RV0FMZ9LS6VQ1	0060279559	805018201	Big Bear Ball	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Have a Bear of a Good Time.....	The sun sets, the moon rises, and here come the bears, arriving on foot through the forest and in brightly colored hot air balloons.  &quot;A broad-beamed caller/howdys all:/Welcome, friends,/to our Big Bear Ball.&quot;  The music plays, the bears begin to dance, and a rip-roarin'good time is had by all.  &quot;Small bears sway/and slap your paws./Tall bears stomp/and pop your jaws.// Two paws up,/waving high./Catch some stars/and scratch the sky.&quot;  And as the celebration moves through the forest, moles and foxes are awakened and join in, frogs jump up and sing along, and even an old alligator joins all the fun.....Joanne Ryder's engaging text begs to be read aloud, is filled with rhythm, rhyme, energy and motion, and complemented by Steven Kellogg's bold, vibrant and expressive artwork.  Eye-popping illustrations dazzle with bright colors, marvelous facial expressions, and woodland detail that is sure to captivate little ones as they linger before turning the page.  Together word and art create an entertaining and joyous, finger-snapping, toe-tapping romp.  Perfect for preschoolers, Big Bear Ball is a winner, and a picture book kids will want to read again and again.  &quot;Go lightly, sprightly,/on your way./May you dance/with the music/as we welcome the day. // Farewell one!/Farewell all!/See you next full moon/at our Big Bear Ball.&quot;	2002-08-09
1447835:US	52793250	R180XRGSQ4Q1WO	0786808462	330903772	The Secret Life of Food	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Food, Art and Fun.....	As Clare Crespo tells us in her introduction:  &quot;...For me, food is an art supply.  I hope that these recipes will be an inspiration.  Don't be afraid to come up with your own food art pieces.  When you are reading a recipe, be creative.  Let your cooking tell the world who you are...&quot;  Each of these 46 recipes not only offers a tasty treat, but also a feast for the eyes.  Try the simple and inventive Caterpillar Cake for birthday party fun, or the Spider Web Soup on a cold or rainy night.  Make lunchtime extra fun with Handwiches or Burrito Presents, and dinner more exciting with Football Meatloaf or Mutant Chicken.  Kids will go gaga for Chocolate Moose, Monkey Pops, Licorice Records, Fruit Pizza, and Jell-O Aquarium.  Each recipe includes a list of ingredients, simple step-by-step instructions, and marvelous photographs that are sure to whet the appetite, and get your creative juices flowing.  Great for holidays, parties, and especially family fun, The Secret Life Of Food is an adventurous, no-holds-barred cookbook that makes a wonderful gift, and will delight not only the diners, but the cooks as well.	2002-08-08
1448343:US	52793250	R3SAJ6L2LW7ICX	0439210429	434440660	Math For All Seasons: Mind-Stretching Math Riddles	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Math Made Fun for Everyone.....	Greg Tang and partner, Harry Briggs are back with another innovative, seasonal counting book that's ready to challenge younger readers.  Each clever problem, posed as a riddle, and told in engaging rhyme is enhanced with bold and vibrant, eye-catching, computer-generated illustrations.  No more counting the old fashioned, slow way, one by one.  Tang and Briggs help kids think creatively by looking for patterns and recognizing groupings.  Little ones will feel a real sense of accomplishment as they begin to develop the problem solving skills and tactics they'll use for the rest of their lives.  With a helpful hint included at the end of each rhyme to get you started, and a straighforward, easy to understand answer key at the end, youngsters 4-8 won't even know they're working on math problems.  They'll just think they're just having fun!  For those with older kids, be sure to get this dynmaic duo's first book of mind-stretchers, The Grapes Of Math.	2002-08-08
1449248:US	52793250	R23YLU4GUNUS3V	9129655005	193927291	The Little Hippos' Adventure	Books	2	12	14	N	N	Not Much of a Splash.....	&quot;On the hippos' fine muddy riverbank, everything is the same as it always is...&quot;  The big hippos relax in the river, the little hippos dive, splash, and paddle around, and Mrs Hippopotamus makes seaweed pudding, &quot;just as she always does.&quot;  Everyday the little hippos ask to go to Tall Cliff to dive, and everyday they're told no, it's too dangerous.  And then one day the answer is yes, and they hurry off before the old hippo changes his mind.  But with all the excitement, the little hippos forget that the jungle can be a dangerous place, and are almost eaten by a crocodile.  Fortunately, Mrs Hippopotamus arrives just in time to save the day and chases that nasty crocodile off.  Early tne next morning she builds the little hippos a diving, sliding, vine-swinging platform of their own.....  Lena Landstrom's sweet and simple little story has all the elements that should make it a winner, jungle animals, drama, comedy, and adventure, but she just doesn't deliver.  Maybe it's the translation, but the plot is flat, uninspired, and worst of all unexciting.  Readers plod along, turn the last page, and ask, &quot;Is that it?&quot;  There just seems to be something missing.  The book's real charm is in the lovely cartoon-like artwork, rendered in soft and subdued earth tones.  Each page is filled with delightful and endearing characters, expressive, eye-catching detail, and engaging humor, and preschoolers will enjoy lingering over the entertaining pages.  Unfortunately, word and art don't work well together.  The Little Hippos' Adventure is a picture book that will probably only be read once.  It's just too short on &quot;adventure.&quot;	2002-08-07
1449396:US	52793250	R3378PGG8EKR8N	0689835663	241472323	The Sissy Duckling	Books	5	10	15	N	N	We Are All Special.....	&quot;Elmer was the happiest duckling in the whole forest.&quot;  But he was different from the other boy ducklings.  While they boxed, built forts, and played football, Elmer baked, built sand castles and put on puppet shows.  His father and the other boy ducklings called him a sissy, but his mother comforted him and tried to explain that &quot;...sissy is a cruel way of saying that you don't do things the way others think you should.&quot;  &quot;You are special, Elmer, and being special sometimes scares those who are not.&quot;  &quot;...one day you will amaze us all.&quot;  And no truer words were ever spoken.  One day Elmer runs and hides from a playground fight with a bully, and later overhears his father belittling him and declaring, &quot;He's no son of mine!&quot;  Heartbroken, Elmer runs away and makes a new home for himself in an old hollow tree deep in the forest.  When disaster strikes the flock as they leave to fly south for the winter, and his father is shot by hunters, Elmer doesn't &quot;act like a normal duck&quot; and fly away to save himself, but stays behind, showing courage and ingenuity in the face of danger.  &quot;It may not have been what any other duck would do, but Elmer knew in his heart that it was the right thing for him to do.&quot;  Harvey Fierstein has authored a  sensitive story, with a positive message of acceptance, and how important it is to respect and appreciate our differences, that won't be lost on even the youngest readers.  His simple and entertaining text is complemented by Henry Cole's bold, bright, and evocative illustrations, filled with eye-catching detail and marvelous facial expressions, that bring Elmer and his personality to life on the page.  With its comforting and reassuring, happily-ever-after ending, The Sissy Duckling is a superb picture book that celebrates the unique and special qualities in each and every one of us.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, and best read aloud and shared, this is a wonderful, &quot;must read&quot; story, told with great insight, wisdom, and humor.	2002-08-07
1449717:US	52793250	R1R2TI4YMIKO45	0689842198	12650224	Sailor Moo: Cow at Sea	Books	5	6	6	N	N	&quot;Yo-ho-ho and a shiver-me-be...&quot;	&quot;All year long, the dairy cows/would stand...and graze...and chew./They truly were contented cows-/except for little Moo. // Moo watched the field of waving wheat,/and wished for ocean swells./She sniffed the freshness of the grass,/but wished for ocean smells.&quot;  And so Moo packs her bucket and bell and leaves the farm to meet her destiny at sea.  She's first employed as a galley cook on a feline fishing boat, promising fresh milk each day to pay her way.  But when disaster strikes and she's swept overboard, her sea-cow cousins, the manatees, rescue Moo just in the nick of time, depositing her safely on the deck of ruthless, Red Angus' pirate ship.  &quot;Red Angus gazed into her eyes./His heart began to warm./In Moo he'd seen his dairy queen/and now he must reform.&quot;  Content at last, Moo has finally found adventure and true love on the high seas.....  Lisa Wheeler is back with another clever and witty picture book, and those who were charmed by her previous works, Sixteen Cows and Wool Gathering:  A Sheep Family Reunion will lead a stampede to get Sailor Moo:  Cow At Sea.  Her marvelously engaging text begs to be read aloud, and is filled with rhyme, rhythm, silly cow puns and wordplay.  Illustrator, Ponder Goembel's bold, colorful, and expressive artwork sparkles with endearing characters, humor, and captivating, eye-catching detail.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Sailor Moo:  Cow At Sea is definitely one of 2002's best and brightest, and is sure to be an instant favorite at your house.  Kudos to Lisa Wheeler on another winner!	2002-08-07
1450383:US	52793250	R22597KHJ1DSB5	0374343853	95546068	Liberty!	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Meet Lady Liberty.....	\\"Imagine this...New York City, October 28, 1886...  A small boy stands at the foot of an enormous statue, his heart bursting with excitement, for today he has been given the most important job in the world...\\"  Based on true events, and seen through the eyes of a little boy, Allan Drummond details the momentous day the Statue of Liberty was unveiled in New York Harbor.  As the rained poured down, the harbor was teaming with ships and boats, filled with thousands of cheering people, flying French and American flags.  Everyone was there, Mr Bartholdi, the sculptor, the many workers who helped build the statue in France, and erect it here in America, the sailors who brought her over from France, the press, businessmen, dignitaries, and even the President of the United States, all waiting for the signal that would reveal Lady Liberty's beautiful face for the first time.....  Mr Drummond's simple text is engaging, entertaining, and full of energy, as the excitement of that day builds with each page turn.  His marvelous bright and busy illustrations, in shades of red, white, and blue, dazzle as they swirl around the pages, creating a joyous feast for the eyes.  Perfect for youngsters 5-9, Liberty is an evocative masterpiece, best read aloud and shared, that leaves behind a gentle and unforgettable message.  \\"Freedom is like a flame we must all hold high and give to others and keep burning bright all around the world.\\"	2002-08-06
1450865:US	52793250	R2MY74GJTAIKVO	0803725531	816356679	We the Kids	Books	5	42	45	N	N	What It All Means.....	As David Catrow tells us in his introduction, \\"...For me, the Constitution is a kind of how-to book, showing us ways to have happiness, safety, and comfort...\\", and he uses his immeasurable talents as an artist and cartoonist to teach an inspirational and unforgettable lesson that is sure to open interesting discussions at home and school.  Following a glossary of what the actual words in the Preamble of the Constitution mean, (e.g. \\"IN ORDER TO FORM A MORE PERFECT UNION:  To come together and make things better for everyone who lives in our country.  INSURE DOMESTIC TRANQUILITY:  To make sure we can all have a nice life and get along with one another.  TO OURSELVES AND OUR POSTERITY:  For kids, parents, other grown-ups, and all the people born in our country after we are.\\"), Mr Catrow details the meaning of these important ideals, phrase by phrase, using his marvelously bold and busy cartoon illustrations.  Each two page spread is a clever feast for the eyes, rich in engaging details, manic energy, and droll humor.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, We The Kids is a witty and memorable treasure, and one of the real winners of 2002 that shouldn't be missed.	2002-08-06
1451382:US	52793250	RWHSKVYEFEPLO	0060194413	936235013	Law of Gravity	Books	5	1	1	N	N	&quot;The Guy Who Did It Has to Fall&quot;	&quot;I had nothing to do with the disappearance of Martin Green.  I had nothing to do.  I was passing the days.  And the nights.  One to the next.  No agenda, no appointments, no to-dos.  No interests, hobbies, or curiosity.  No ambition.  When I showed up at the Justice Department, colleagues got tunnel vision...&quot;  Phillip Barkley had been a player, a Washington insider whose professional and personal life took a meteoric downward plunge after he testified on Capitol Hill, blowing the whistle on fundraising abuses and scandal.  But now with the disappearance of Martin Green, Phil just might get the fresh start he so badly wants.  Green is a senior aide to golden boy, Senator Warren Young, presidential aspirant and chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, and it looks like his sudden and unexpected departure to parts unknown might be connected to espionage and spying.  All Barkley has to do is oversee the investigation and come up with the right result, something that will distance Green from Senator Young and not impact his political ambitions.  But as he digs, Phil finds that all is far from what it seems, and he's not willing to rush to judgement with a whitewash job and destroy Martin Green's good name.  As leads take him all the way back to the mysterious 1955 suicide of a Hungarian refugee, murder and mayhem ensue, and as the body count rises, Phil Barkley finds his quest for justice may just be his last.....  Stephen Horn has really pulled out all the stops with his second intriguing and compelling novel, set in Washington, D.C.  Law Of Gravity is a well crafted, intelligent, and intense political thriller, filled with suspense, riveting scenes, and dark humor.  The writing is entertaining and smart, and Mr Horn shows a real ear for crisp dialogue, and his characterizations are brilliant, well drawn and developed.  But it's Mr Horn's, expertise and insider knowledge of the workings of Capitol Hill and the Justice Department that adds real credibility to the story and makes this novel stand out and sparkle.  With a stunning conclusion that ties all the story lines together into a neat and realistic package, and a satisfying conclusion, Law Of Gravity is a superb thriller, destined for the top of all the bestsellers' lists.  If you're new to Stephen Horn, make sure you go back and read his marvelous debut novel, In Her Defense.  If you're already a fan, this latest political thriller is a winner.	2002-08-05
1457578:US	52793250	RYHZULWVW1VUP	0060298480	729978769	I Stink!	Books	5	30	31	N	N	The Life of a Garbage Truck....	It's hard to believe that anyone could write an entertaining story about the ins and outs of garbage collection, but that's exactly what husband and wife team, Kate and Jim McMullan, have done.  Meet a New York City garbage truck.  He's bold, brash, confident, and he's more than happy to explain how he gets this dirty job done while the rest of the city sleeps.  From apple cores, banana peels, candy wrappers, and dirty diapers to watermelon rings, XL T-shirts, year old yams, and zipped-up ziti with zucchini, he eats it all and never complains.  &quot;What's that?  You think I stink?  WHOOOOO-WHEE!  Do I ever!  No skunk ever stunk this bad!  Go, hold your nose, but think about it - Without Me?  You're on Mount Trash-o-rama, baby.&quot;  The McMullan's have filled their picture book with engaging illustrations, creative text sizes, fonts, and colors, marvelous sound effects, lots of energy and humor.  A feast for both the ears and eyes, I Stink shows a big, happy, boisterous machine at work, doing an important community job, and makes a perfect read aloud, youngsters 3-7 will beg to hear again and again.	2002-07-30
1459830:US	52793250	RMR6THZ4D5Q7K	0375810943	833575649	Footprints on the Roof: Poems About the Earth	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Wonders of the Planet, Earth.....	Poet, Marilyn Singer celebrates the wonders of our planet in this inspiring and inventive collection of poems about the earth.  From mud, ice, deserts, fens, and dunes, to natural disasters, volcanoes, islands, caves, and more, she brings the marvelous intricacies of our world to life on the page.  Each lyrical free verse is filled with imagery, magic, and joy, and are complemented by artist, Meilo So's evocative and captivating black and white, India ink drawings.  Together word and art send imaginations soaring, and bring a new appreciation and respect to the power and beauty of nature.  Perfect for youngsters 10 and older, Footprints On The Roof is a thoughtful, well crafted collection that shouldn't be missed.  &quot;Out in the country I walk across towns/I'll never see:/mazy metropolises/under the earth/where rabbits hide from foxes/foxes hide from dogs/full-bellied snakes sleep snugly/worms work uncomplaining // Where what you see is nothing-/what counts is what you smell/or hear or feel/I try to tread softly:/a quiet giant/leaving only footprints/on the roof&quot;	2002-07-28
1460661:US	52793250	R1YO5H04RRZP2L	067003567X	361231775	Princesses are People Too	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Two Thoroughly Modern Princess Tales.....	Oh, to be a princess...that's the life...or is it.  Susie Morgenstern dishes out two very clever stories that bring fairy tales and the magical life of royalty down to earth.  In the first story, Princess Yona and her family fall on hard times, have to sell the huge, old castle, and move to a four room apartment in the city, where for the first time in her life she makes friends and finds out about a place called school.  In the second, Princess Emma has a terrible, agonizing, unreachable itch right in the middle of her back, and decides that the prince who can scratch her itch out of existence, is the man she'll marry.  Ms Morgenstern's easy to read prose is filled with droll humor and witty, laugh-out-loud scenes that lead to unpredictable and totally modern, happily-ever-after endings.  Serge Bloch's simple black and white cartoon illustrations add a light and comical touch with their funny and expressive details.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, Princesses Are People, Too is sure to engage and entertain your little princess, as it takes a delightful look at some of the real problems facing modern royalty.	2002-07-28
1460678:US	52793250	R1MA53UTDT0HT1	0374323356	982149606	The 5,000-Year-Old Puzzle: Solving a Mystery of Ancient Egypt	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Come Join this Historic Expedition.....	In 1924, Dr George Reisner led an expedition to Egypt to explore the archaeological site, Giza 7000X.  There, he and his team  discovered a secret underground tomb belonging to Queen Hetep-heres, the mother of King Khufu who built the Great Pyramid.  The tomb was carefully opened and painstakingly examined, but the contents yielded many questions and mysteries as to what happened to the queen, how she lived and died.  Join fictional character, Will Hunt, as he and his family travel with Dr Reisner and participate in this amazing expedition and discovery, and maybe you can help solve the 5000-year-old puzzle.....  Author, Claudia Logan, and illustrator, Melissa Sweet, have joined forces to create a fascinating and inspiring book filled with history, drama, archeaology, fun facts, trivia, anecdotes, and much, much more.  Ms Logan's engaging text, told in Will Hunt's easy to read, diary entries, pulls the reader into the story and sends him/her back in time to a faraway and mysterious place, for the adventure of a lifetime.  Ms Sweet's bold, busy, and captivating arwork includes original paintings combined with postcards, cartoons, collages, ancient artifacts, photographs, newspaper clippings, documents, and informational sidebars.    Young and old alike will enjoy poring over and exploring the illustrations, and finding something new and exciting with each page turn.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, The 5000-Year-Old Puzzle is a creative and inventive archaeology lesson, presented in an innovative and entertaining format.  So come join the expedition.  The secrets of Giza 7000X are waiting to be discovered	2002-07-28
1461143:US	52793250	RT1PZO1TJIXFZ	0802787967	502011148	The Great Pancake Escape	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Pancake-mania.....	&quot;Our dad is a magician,/who can make a bird go poof,/but the day he cooked us pancakes,/he made an awful goof...&quot;  Poor Dad was working from the wrong book.  He'd picked up his book of magic tricks instead of the cookbook and &quot;Ka-Blam&quot;, everything went crazy.  The bowl spun round and round, the batter jumped into the pan all by itself, and the pancakes leaped off the griddle and rolled out the door.  &quot;Where did they go?&quot; cried little Ned./Louise had teary eyes./&quot;Now don't be sad,&quot; I told them both./&quot;Well catch those sneaky guys!&quot;  But the task turns out to be a lot harder than they thought, until the kids begin to notice that everything round...bus, car, even rollerskate wheels, manhole covers, traffic lights, frisbees... had turned to pancakes.  And when those errant hotcakes take flight the kids rush back home and finally solve the problem in an ingeniously unique way.....  Paul Many's manic, rhyming text is full of energy, rhythm, and motion, and complemented by Scott Goto's engaging, bold, busy, and colorful artwork.  Each two page spread is jam-packed with clever, eye-catching details, that pulls the reader into the story and right along on the chase to save breakfast.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Great Pancake Escape is a rip-roarin', hilarious, crowd pleaser that begs to be read aloud, and a soon-to-be favorite at your house.	2002-07-27
1461160:US	52793250	RQBXUBSVR94G6	0064432696	924648243	black is brown is tan	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Joyous Celebration of Family.....	&quot;black  is brown  is tan/is girl  is boy/is nose  is face/is all the colors/of the race // is dark  is light/singing songs/in singing night/kiss big woman  hug big man/black  is brown  is tan // this is the way it is for us  this is the way we are&quot;  Originally published in 1973, Arnold Adoff's joyous, lyrical, story-poem is as fresh and relevant today, as is was almost thirty years ago.  Meet this wonderful extended family, from Momma, a &quot;brown sugar gown/a tasty tan and coffee pumpkin pie/with dark brown eyes  and almond ears&quot;, and Dad, not white like milk or snow, but &quot;with pinks and tiny tans...brown eyes  big yellow ears&quot;, and their kids, the color of both races, to golden haired aunts, tan colored uncles, granny white and grandma black &quot;kissing both your cheeks and hugging back...&quot;  Mr Adoff's simple, rhythmic text is filled with love and pride as it celebrates his interracial family, and is complemented by award winning illustrator, Emily McCully's warm and cheerful artwork.  Together word and art paints an engaging portrait of a strong, happy, loving family.  Perfect for youngsters from 3 to 93, Black Is Brown Is Tan is a timeless classic, best read aloud and shared, that honors all families and the things that make them special.	2002-07-27
1462059:US	52793250	RJEGSIBENH779	0060296534	903264575	Which Would You Rather Be?	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Decisions, Decisions.....	As a large, gray, wand wielding rabbit, complete with upturned magician's hat, sits facing a young boy and girl, he asks...&quot;Which would you rather be?  A stick or a stone?&quot;  And so the game begins.  Would you rather be an elbow or a knee, mouse or elephant, rain or snow, snake or crocodile, alone or together?  Some of the answers seem to be obvious, as we see a balding, eyeglass wearing, paper reading grown-up come out of the hat, compared to a skateboard riding kid.  But it's clear from the start that there are no right or wrong answers.  Just thoughtful, clever fun.  William Steig's minimal text, floating  in dialogue bubbles, sets the stage.  But it's Harry Bliss' bold, bright, and expressive artwork that steals the show with its humorous detail.  Perfect for preschoolers, Which Would You Rather Be? is a simple and entertaining picture book that will get those creative juices flowing.  This is just the beginning;  the game is sure to continue long after the book is closed.	2002-07-26
1462869:US	52793250	R3MMED9EREOKFZ	0399231641	74690599	When Lightning Comes in a Jar	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Family Traditions and Heartfelt Memories.....	&quot;Today is the family reunion!  I can hardly wait.  My dad's side of the family will come soon.  It's been ages since I've seen them all...&quot;  And as Trisha anxiously awaits the arrival of all her relatives, she remembers the last family reunion at Gramma's house, so many years ago.  First all the wonderful food, including about a zillion meatloafs, each made by an auntie from a different recipe, and a gazillion different Jello salads shaking and shimmering on the table.  Then there were the games, baseball, croquet, potato sack races, and watermelon spitting contests.  Next, all the kids were carefully measured on the side of the milk shed, and Trisha remembers looking at the marks of her gramma and aunties when they were just girls.  And last, out came the old photo albums and stories of walking seven miles to school and seeing &quot;the first-ever flying machine in the state of Michigan.&quot;  And as the day ended and night fell, &quot;small bursts of starlight puffed up out of the grass&quot;, and all the children ran to catch lighning in a jar.....  Inspired by her own childhood memories, and &quot;the real-life experience of hosting a large reunion after a forty-one year gap between family gatherings&quot;, Patricia Polacco's evocative, heartfelt text is full of imagery and magic as she draws the reader into her large and boisterous family for an enchanting day of fun.  But it's her expressive artwork that really brings the story to life, and each two-page, water-color and pencil spread is filled with nostalgic, joyous detail.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, When Lightning Comes In A Jar makes a marvelous read aloud the entire family can share and enjoy together, and is a treasured slice of history told with great insight, wisdom, humor, and love.  &quot;I'll send them home with full bellies, tired bones and flickering jars in their laps.  Their hearts will be overflowing.  Full of lighning, put there by folks who loved them even before they were born.Gramma knew this well.  She also knew that someday they would tell their children about all of us, and of the magic nights when we caught lightning in a jar.&quot;	2002-07-25
1463068:US	52793250	R5EJFAF4V2DJ7	0553800957	928039507	The Interrogation	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Tight, Tense, and Compelling.....	Word has come down from the top, Albert Jay Smalls, prime suspect in the murder of eight year old Cathy Lake, is to be released at 6:00 am tomorrow morning.  With no witnesses or direct evidence to link him to the crime, the police have held Smalls for over a week, hoping he'll break and confess.  But his steadfast denial has never wavered, and now detectives Norm Cohen and Jack Pierce have twelve hours, one last interrogation, to make their case or let him go.  It's September 12, 1952, and these next few hours will forever change the lives of everyone involved in the Lake murder, as Cohen and Pierce race against the clock to find not only the truth, but justice.....  Award winning, master storyteller, Thomas Cook weaves a compelling and intricate tale, that moves deftly, back and forth, between the crime itself, the continuing police investigation, and this last interrogation of Smalls, towards a stunning and powerfully haunting conclusion.  This eloquently written, intelligent novel is tight, tense and suspenseful, and filled with vivid, riveting scenes, brilliant characterizations, and seemingly unrelated plot twists that keep the reader off balance and guessing to the end.  Part police procedural, part psychological thriller, The Interrogation stands alone in its skill and art, and is a gripping drama that should be placed at the top of everyone's &quot;must read&quot; list.	2002-07-25
1465495:US	52793250	R368XG783KPILE	0062051857	221178059	Bark, George	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Listen to What George has to Say.....	Mother dog is beside herself.  Her puppy, George, just can't seem to bark like a dog.  &quot;Bark, George.&quot;  George went:  &quot;Meow.&quot;  As mother asks him to try again and again, he quacks like a duck, oinks like a pig, and moos like a cow, but just can't seem to bark like the dog he is.  &quot;George's mother took George to the vet.&quot;  The vet studied the problem and this time when George meowed, the vet &quot;reached deep down inside of George...&quot; and to everyone's surprise, pulled out a cat, then a duck, a pig, and finally &quot;deep, deep, deep, deep, deep, deep, deep, deep, deep, deep, deep down inside George...&quot; a cow.  Now, George can bark &quot;arf&quot;, or can he.....  Jules Feiffer's brief text doesn't waste a single word, and is complemented by his simple and bold, cartoon-like illustrations that captivate with their marvelous facial expressions.  Together word and art create an engaging treasure that will charm and delight preschoolers as young as two.  With a hilarious, surprise ending that's sure to tickle your funny bone, Bark, George is a timeless classic, to read and share with friends and family now, and future generations in the years to come.	2002-07-23
1466001:US	52793250	R38VN4IY6QIEXN	1582347514	401981037	Five Little Fiends	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Wonders of the World.....	&quot;On a faraway plain stood five lonely statues.  Inside each statue lived a little fiend.  Every day they would come outside to marvel at their surroundings...&quot;  One day, they decided to take that part of the world each liked best, to keep inside their statue and enjoy as their own.  One little fiend took the sun, another the sky, the third took the land, the fourth, the sea, and the last little fiend took the moon he so admired.  But they soon came to realize that the sun need the sky to stay up, and the sky needed the land.  The land died without the water from the sea, the sea needed the moon to flow, and the moon couldn't glow without the light from the sun.  So they unselfishly put each part back where it belonged, &quot;...and once again marvel at their surroundings.&quot;  Sarah Dyer's simple, spare, and poetic text, with its gentle message of sharing and appreciation for the world around us, is complemented by her expressive, bold and colorful illustrations.  Together word and art offer a gentle and evocative lesson about interdependence, harmony, and balance that won't be lost on young children.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Five Little Fiends is a clever and engaging story that is sure to become a family favorite at your house.	2002-07-23
1466476:US	52793250	R2HEISMLVPUCP2	0803725701	709292204	You Can't Take a Balloon into the Museum of Fine Arts	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Boston, a Balloon, and Fun.....	The Preiss sisters are back and taking Boston by storm, or should I say balloon.  As in their previous books, You Can't Take A Balloon Into The Metropolitan Museum and You Can't Take A Balloon Into The National Gallery, a little balloon carrying girl and her brother visit the Museum of Fine Arts with Grandma and Grandpa.  Everyone knows you can't take a balloon inside, so Grandma does the honors and waits outside on the steps, holding the treasured balloon, while the others go in and take their tour.  In no time, the balloon escapes, and the fun begins.  As life imitates the famous artwork the little girl is observing inside, Grandma chases the balloon all over the city from the Boston Library, Trinity Church, Chinatown, and the Boston Harbor, to Faneuil Hall, the Old North Church, Fenway Park, and many other famous landmarks along the way.  This hilarious, joyous, manic romp, will mesmerize youngsters with it's exuberant and engaging pen and ink illustrations, with just a little color used here and there to highlight the action, and includes thirty-three hidden famous Bostonians, sprinkled throughout the comic book-like pages, to find and learn more about.  Part art book, history lesson and travel brochure, this is a creative and inventive tour of one of America's great cities, and includes a map of the balloon's route, an informative list of artwork seen in the museum, and biographical sketches of the hidden &quot;faces from history.&quot;  Perfect for kids of all ages, You Can't Take A Balloon Into The Museum Of Fine Arts is a wonderful addition to an already terrific series, and guarantees hours of clever and imaginative, page-turning fun.	2002-07-22
1468647:US	52793250	R1MHHIMHIEOB1T	0060283289	267751443	If You Take a Mouse to School	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Mouse is Back.....	&quot;If you take a mouse to school he'll ask you for your lunchbox...&quot; So begins Laura Numeroff and Felicia Bond's latest manic chain of events adventure, and little ones, familiar with this marvelous series, will know just what kind of trouble is coming next.  Mouse is never quite satisfied.  Once he's got your lunchbox, he'll want a sandwich, and a snack for later, a notebook and pencils, and he'll want to share your backpack.  Once you get to school, he'll do a little math, some spelling, and a rather messy science experiment, that sends him to the bathroom in need of washing up.  Then he notices the building blocks, and so on, and so forth, through the end of the school day and after, until the story comes full circle, and his boy companion ends up taking him back to school.....  Ms Numeroff's lively text is entertaining and engaging, but it's Ms Bond's busy, bright and exuberant illustrations that make this picture book sparkle.  Each colorful, action packed page is filled with special, humorous details, and youngsters will revel in all the fun as they watch this endearing little rodent wreak havoc and create chaos in the classroom.  Though the story doesn't flow as smoothly as in the previous books of this series (If You Give A Mouse A Cookie, If You Give A Moose A Muffin, If You Take A Mouse To The Movies), and isn't quite as intricate or clever, If You Take A Mouse To School is still a comical, silly romp kids 3-7 will want to read again and again.	2002-07-20
1471598:US	52793250	R2QQ0IEMZODYWV	0873587952	225925839	Clarence and the Great Surprise	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Adventure Continues.....	When we last saw Clarence, the pig, and Smoky, the purple horse, they were about to leave the dude ranch and head back to the big city where Clarence lives.  They've packed their bags and are ready to begin their long journey, over the mountains and across the desert.  &quot;Clarence can hardly wait.  But first, Smoky is going to show Clarence a great surprise.  Clarence loves surprises.&quot;  They travel, and picnic, they sleep under the stars in a tent, go fishing, nap, watch the clouds roll by, and even get to stay in a hotel.  &quot;Clarence loves the hotel.  He really loves room service.  Smoky orders hay.&quot;  But best of all, they meet a new and special friend along the way.  Old Edgar, the dog, hums and dances.  In fact, he is such an amazing and energetic dancer that Smoky warns Clarence, &quot;You'll have to watch him to make sure he doesn't twirl away.&quot;  And as the three friends travel on to see the great surprise, that's exactly what happens.....  For those who loved Clarence Goes Out West And Meets A Purple Horse, Jean Ekman Adams is back with another Clarence and Smoky adventure that's sure to warm your heart and tickle your funny bone.  Her engaging text, with its simple message of friendship, loyalty, and acceptance is filled with gentle humor and begs to be read aloud.  But it's Ms Adam's marvelously bold and bright artwork, rich in witty western detail, that makes this picture book sparkle, and brings these endearing characters to life.  With a satisfying, happily-ever-after ending to complete the story, Clarence And The Great Surprise is perfect for youngsters 3-7, and is a sweet little treasure of a book, you don't want to miss.	2002-07-18
1471810:US	52793250	R3QZW94ZPIS97B	0689823266	835569067	Let's Go Home: The Wonderful Things About a House	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Home Sweet Home	&quot;There are many kinds of houses in the world, from little cottages to big mansions, from farmhouses to bungalows.  But no matter the kind of house, it is the living inside that makes it wonderful, what happens in each room that makes it marvelous.  It is what the house means to those who live there.  Let's walk through.  Let's see the wonderful things about a house.&quot;  And with an invitation like that, who could resist.  Join author, Cynthia Rylant, and illustrator, Wendy Anderson Halperin, as they take the reader on a room by room tour of their house.  From the front porch to the attic, and all the rooms in between, this dynamic duo investigates each room, detailing all the special things that belong there, and all the wonderful things you might do.  Ms Rylant's gentle, lyrical prose is rich in imagery and magic.  But it's Ms Halperin's colorful, busy, and expressive artwork that really makes this picture book stand out and sparkle, and she spares no detail in each fun-filled, joyous, cluttered picture.  Young and old, alike, will linger over each two page spread, always finding something new and clever every time they open the book and explore a room.  Perfect for preschoolers, Let's Go Home is a cozy and engaging read-aloud that's sure to open interesting discussions about your own home and what makes it unique and special.  &quot;Happy living.&quot;	2002-07-17
1473042:US	52793250	R4KLIZ6SO500G	0399224483	206683503	The Selfish Giant	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Oscar Wilde's Magical Tale	&quot;Every afternoon, as they were coming from school, the children used to go and play in the Giant's garden...&quot;  So begins Oscar Wilde's timeless classic.  The children love the Giant's garden, its soft grass, beautiful flowers, tall climbing trees, and singing birds.  But when the Giant returns from a seven year visit and sees all the children playing happily, he is angry.  &quot;My own garden is my own garden,&quot; said the Giant.  &quot;Anyone can understand that, and I will allow nobody to play in it but myself.&quot;  He selfishly builds a high, high wall around the garden and puts up a &quot;Trespassers Will Be Prosecuted&quot; sign.  The children were very sad.  They had nowhere to play and spent their days remembering the Giant's wonderful garden.  Inside the high wall, the birds stayed away, and the flowers would not bloom.  Winter had come to stay.  Snow, Frost, Hail, and the North Wind now lived in the garden.  There was no Spring, Summer, or Autumn.  And then one day, the Giant noticed a small boy had entered his cold and wintry garden, and he began to feel very sorry for what he had done.  As the little boy began to cry, the Giant's heart melted.....  Originally published in 1888, The Selfish Giant is as magical today as it was well over a hundred years ago.  Oscar Wilde's simple, yet eloquent text, with its gentle message of love and generosity, is charming, engaging, and begs to be read aloud.  But it's Saelig Gallagher's marvelously detailed and evocative illustrations that really make this picture book stand out and sparkle.  Perfect for youngsters of all ages, The Selfish Giant, with its satisfying, happily-ever-after ending, is a masterpiece to share with friends and family now, and with future generations in the years to come.	2002-07-16
1473893:US	52793250	R1UP07JA3NK5K5	0618212647	577041914	Where Does Thursday Go?	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Goodbye Thursday, Goodbye.....	It was Thursday, Bruno the bear's birthday, and he had such a wonderful and fun time that he wished it didn't have to end.  &quot;He knew his birthday would be gone in the morning.  So, wondered Bruno, what happened to it during the night?  Where did it go?&quot;  Bruno just had to find out, and so along with his duck friend Bert embarks on a middle of the night odyssey to find Thursday and say goodbye.  &quot;First they came to a bridge.  A gentle river gurgled beneath.  &quot;Oogle, gurgle.  Oogle gurgle,&quot; it said.  &quot;Is that you, Thursday?&quot;  Bruno called out.  &quot;We've come to say goodbye.&quot;  But there was no reply.&quot;  Then on to the park, the lake, up the big hill to the train tracks, and even the seashore.  Each time they called out their goodbye to Thursday.  And each time there was no reply.  Sad and defeated they head back home, and Bruno tells Bert what his Thursday would look like if he could find it ...round like his birthday cake, bright like his candles, and happy like his balloons.  Just then, Bruno and Bert look up and see the big, glowing moon.  &quot;Just like Thursday...&quot;  Janeen Brian's simple, whimsical, and engaging story begs to be read aloud and shared, and is complemented by Stephen Michael King's expressive watercolor artwork that sparkles with lovely nightime detail.  Together word and art create a magical, gentle, and soothing bedtime story.  Perfect for preschoolers Where Does Thursday Go? is a sweet little treasure that's soon to become a special favorite at your house.	2002-07-16
1475235:US	52793250	R3KIUJIHPY3XZ	0312265859	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Number Eight...Not So Great.....	There's trouble in &quot;the burg&quot; and it's living right next door to the elder Plums.  It seems neighbor, Mabel Markowitz, is about to lose her side of the duplex.  Her grandaughter, Evelyn, needed to take out a child custody bond, per the terms of her divorce, and Mabel used her house as collateral.  Now Evelyn has disappeared with daughter, Annie, her ex, a Trenton low-life beholden to the mob, is making a lot of unpleasant noise, and the bondsman has given Mabel three weeks to produce Annie or forfeit her home.  Mabel needs help and figures that Stephanie, inept bounty hunter from hell, is just the person for the job.  She finds people.  She brings them in.  She can handle this missing person case.  Poor Steph's plate is already full, chasing down Trenton's not-so-finest who've missed their court dates and are on their way to jail.  In no time, she finds she's in way over her head when dangerous gangsters, who want her off this case and out of the way, start sending threatening messages in the form of bombs, snakes, and spiders.  But never fear, once tenacious Stephanie Plum takes on a job, she's like a dog with a bone, and she's not letting common sense, anyone or anything get in her way, until she brings in her woman.....  Janet Evanovich is back with another manic romp through Trenton, and as hilarious and entertaining as this series is, Hard Eight doesn't hit the mark.  This is a weak addition, with a flat story line that goes nowhere.  The whole gang is back, along with a couple of newcomers, and they're as quirky and wacky as ever.  The laughs are back too, but for the most part have all been done before, and the same old jokes are beginning to become tiresome.  How many cars can Stephanie lose, blow up, or wreck?  Why bother even locking her apartment door when any and everybody seems to be able to break in?  Can't she ever just simply put the cuffs on a &quot;client&quot; and bring him in without wrestling and rolling around on the ground, usually in mud, garbage, or dinner?  And how many funeral parlor incidents can Grandma Mazur have before she's banned from Stiva's?  But the saddest development in Hard Eight is the lack of sexual tension in the eternal Ranger-Morelli-Plum triangle.  The sparks aren't flying this time out, and there seems to be no fire left in that furnace.  This is a book that really doesn't stand alone, and if you're new to the series, you'll be lost if you begin here with number eight.  So go back to the start of it all, with One For The Money, and read them all.  For old and loyal fans, Hard Eight still has some flashes of fun that you don't want to miss, and let's face it, even a weak Stephanie Plum novel is better than no Stephanie Plum at all.	2002-07-15
1487164:US	52793250	R2AOKWLAAHOA	0810945886	425993164	The Yellow House: Vincent Van Gogh and Paul Gauguin Side by Side	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Meet Vincent Van Gogh and Paul Gauguin	During the fall of 1888, Vincent Van Gogh invited Paul Gauguin to come live and paint with him in the Yellow House in the south of France.  &quot;...he missed the company of other people, especially artists who could discuss painting.  He hoped that warm, sunny Arles would attract fellow painters to join him.  Together they would form a kind of family of artists, a Studio of the South.&quot;  Van Gogh and Gauguin were very different in both temperment and style.  Van Gogh worked quickly, painting &quot;exactly what he saw with his own eyes&quot;, and often completed a painting in just one sitting.  He &quot;liked to load his brush with lots of paint and put it on the canvas in dots and dashes...  Thick swirls of strong colors expressed his feelings-his love of nature, his joy in painting.&quot;  Gauguin worked very differently.  He painted more slowly, blending his paints on a palette, and spreading the colors &quot;smoothly in careful shapes.&quot;  He &quot;painted pictures from his imagination-feelings, fantasies, and dreams.&quot;  Together they worked side by side for two months, discussing art and techniques, and learning much from each other.  And even after Gauguin left Arles, they continued to encourage each other through their letters.....  Based on actual events, Susan Goldman Rubin has written an elegant and compelling story about the relationship between these two great artists.  Her eloquent text is straightforward and informative.  But it's Jos. A. Smith's artwork that really makes this book stand out.  His evocative illustrations dazzle as they compare and contrast Van Gogh's and Gauguin's styles, techniques, and use of color, and include reproductions of some of the paintings created during that two month period.  With biographies at the end to fill in details about both painter's lives and work, The Yellow House is an engaging, fact filled introduction, rich in history and drama, that is sure to intrigue young art lovers 5-10, and send them out looking for more	2002-07-04
1487395:US	52793250	R20SYNM7XXMFMR	0763616680	841142285	Do Like a Duck Does!	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Is He Really A Duck?	Mama Duck is out leading her five baby ducks, and putting them through their paces.  &quot;Quack!&quot; says Mama Duck./&quot;That's the way to be!/Do like a duck does!/Do like me!&quot;  But who's that &quot;creep-creeping&quot; at the end of the line?  He says he's a duck, a big brown duck,  &quot;Well, he has no feathers/and he has no beak./He has four claws/on his hairy-scary feet./He has two ears/that stick up a mile,/and a wicked/foxy nose/and a wicked/foxy smile.&quot;  But shrewd Mama Duck isn't really fooled.  She tells that old fox, &quot;Do like a duck does&quot;, and pretty soon she has him waddling, scuttling, and strutting, jumping into mud puddles, eating bugs and beetles, running through thistles, and diving into the river.  &quot;Down go the ducklings, all tails up!  And down goes the stranger.  Glup! Glup! Glup!&quot;  Judy Hindley's entertaining text is full of rhyme, rhythm, and lots of energy, and complemented by Ivan Bates' engaging illustrations.  Each action filled, two page spread is rich in farmyard detail, humor, marvelous facial expressions, and personality that bring the characters to life.  And as that old &quot;hairy-scary&quot; fox slinks home with his tail between his legs, little ones will revel at being in on all the fun.  Perfect for preschoolers, Do Like A Duck Does! is a joyous, manic romp kids will beg to read again and again, and that's sure to become a new favorite at your house.	2002-07-04
1488239:US	52793250	R3NR6DN2BO5Z7M	0060293594	504071113	Was It a Good Trade?	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lots of Trading Fun.....	Author, Beatrice Schenk de Regniers and illustrator, Irene Haas are back with a reworking of their 1957 timeless treasure, and Was It A Good Trade? is as fresh and entertaining today as it was forty-five years ago.  Based on an old folk song, Ms de Regniers lilting text is full of rhyme, rhythm, and fun, and preschoolers will enjoy singing the repetitive refrain along with you, &quot;Was it a good trade?/Was it a bad trade?/Was it a good trade-/hey?&quot;  Ms Haas' charming, bright and colorful artwork captures and highlights the text beautifully, and is rich in expressive detail, humor, and vibrant eye-catching patterns.  With a delightfully silly twist at the end to tickle your funny bone, Was It A Good Trade? is an engaging classic to share with friends and family now, and future generations in the years to come.	2002-07-03
1491089:US	52793250	R14XN45RI5YH19	078686804X	84738703	Black Water	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Tight, Tense, Compelling.....	The sound of the rock breaking the sliding glass door woke Sheriff's Deputy, Archie Wildcraft and his wife, Gwen.  He grabbed his service revolver and a flashlight, locked his wife in the master bath with the phone, just in case, and went outside to investigate.  The last thing he remembered was the bright light in his eyes just before the explosion.  Orange County Detective Merci Rayborn and partner, Paul Zamorra couldn't believe the carnage they found at the scene, Archie, barely alive and in a coma, a bullet lodged in his brain, and Gwen, brutally murdered, and lying on the bathroom floor.  All evidence leads both the Sheriff's office and District Attorney to believe it was a failed murder/suicide.  Archie's gun killed his wife, there's gunshot residue on his hand, and Gwen's blood on his robe.  The shell casing they found was right where it should have ejected when he shot himself in the head, but curiously, so was a size sixteen footprint.  Merci, alone is convinced he didn't do it;  that he was framed, and works to keep the case open and find out what really happened at the Wildcraft home that night.  And then, everything changes when Archie Wildcraft miraculously wakes up.....  Turn off the phone and lock the door, T Jefferson Parker is about to keep you up reading all night.  Black Water is an eloquently written, compelling thriller.  The well-paced, intricate plot is suspenseful, and full of powerfully, intense, vivid, and riveting scenes.  But it's Mr Parker's brilliant characterizations that make this novel stand out, and his ability to breathe life into even the most minor players draws the reader into the story and never lets you go.  These are well defined, fascinating, real people, warts and all, and Mr Parker allows you to get under their skin and experience their raw emotions.  With it's stunning climax and very satisfying ending, Black Water is an intriguing thriller that doesn't disappoint.  This is the third book of a marvelous series, and thosenew to T Jefferson Parker and Merci Rayborn should start at the beginning with The Blue Hour and read them all.  For those who are already fans, make sure you put Black Water at the top of your &quot;must read&quot; list.	2002-07-01
1495439:US	52793250	R7I5MTTY9BHK3	0763611042	448152884	One Duck Stuck	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Trouble in the Sleepy, Slimy Marsh.....	&quot;Down by the marsh, by the sleepy, slimy marsh, one duck gets stuck in the muck, down by the deep green marsh.  Help!  Help!  Who can help?  We can!  We can!&quot;  Maybe two splish, splish fish, three clomp, clomp, moose, four pleep, pleep crickets, or five plop, plop frogs can help that poor old stuck duck.  And if they can't get the job done, how about six plunk, plunk skunks, seven sloosh, sloosh snails, eight slosh, slosh possums, nine slink, slink snakes, or ten zing, zing dragonflies?  It looks like that duck may be stuck for good until his many friends combine forces and help him out of the muck together.....  Phyllis Root's thoroughly entertaining counting book is filled with rhyme, silly wordplay, lots of energy, and wonderful sound effects that make learning numbers and practicing counting a snap for preschoolers, and her engaging, repetitious refrain lets little ones join in and &quot;read along.&quot;  Jane Chapman's busy, bright, and boldly colorful illustrations are rich in humorous detail and just add to the fun.  Together this dynamic duo have authored a marvelous, interactive romp, that's sure to become a classic in the future, and a soon to be favorite in your house right now.	2002-06-27
1496663:US	52793250	R1JJYNMYDIS4TC	0399236287	884718454	One Rainy Day	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Joyous, Expressive Animal Counting Book.....	Goat, sitting on the porch of his home looks up to see a very wet and bedraggled pig approaching the house.  &quot;What happened to you friend pig?  I can see you're wet.  Let me guess.  You went to the meadow to get some flowers and you were caught in the rain.  Is that right?&quot;  And so begins Pig's fantastic tale of a sudden rainstorm, lots and lots of animals, and a very large old tree.  As Pig tells it, he took cover under the tree to stay dry.  Suddenly a fast little mouse joined him, then two porcupines, three water buffaloes, four leopards, five lions, six gorillas, seven crocodiles, eight hippopotamuses, nine rhinoceroses, and finally ten elephants.....  Valeri Gorbachev's simple, witty text is entertaining, full of energy, and begs to be read aloud.  But it's his charming, clever illustrations, culminating in a four page, fold-out spread of everyone together under the large spreading tree that really makes this picture book stand out and sparkle.  Each pen and ink, watercolored page is filled with joyous characters, expressive, eye-catching detail and lots of humor.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, One Rainy Day is a unique and engaging counting book, complete with a funny, silly story line and a cute twist at the end, that shouldn't be missed.  And how, you ask, did Pig get so very wet?  &quot;...I was in such a hurry to get home to tell you about what happened to me on this rainy day that I didn't miss a single puddle!&quot;	2002-06-26
1497440:US	52793250	R39LA103EC22NC	0060090685	257189885	Casey at the Bat	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Mighty Casey has Struck Out.....	What do you get when you combine Ernest Thayer's beloved, boys of summer poem and artist, Leroy Neiman's rich, charcoal illustrations?  A unique and evocative rendering of Americana that adds an additional rare gem to the rich collection of Casey At The Bat books.  Mr Neiman's unique, expressive, and dynamic artwork brings the poem to life in all its emotional splendor and glory.  From the introduction by New York Yankee's manager, Joe Torre, to the very last page, as muscular Casey, bat in hand, hangs his head and takes that lonely walk from the plate into fictional history, young and old alike will be entranced by this powerful and engaging, larger than life story.  Perfect for youngsters 8 and older, Leroy Neiman's, oversized, coffee table-like Casey At The Bat is a combination of verse and artwork at its finest, and a must for both baseball fans and art lovers everywhere.	2002-06-26
1497639:US	52793250	R19P8QZAWG649W	0735816166	402260374	Just the Way You Are (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	You're Perfect...Just the Way You Are.....	Hedgehog asks Lion, &quot;Are you coming to the party tonight?&quot;  Lion answers no, he doesn't think so.  &quot;No one cares whether I come of not.&quot;  Now, if he had a beautiful beak and wings like a toucan...  And as the reader looks through the die cut hole in the page, they see a glimpse of just what Lion wishes for.  Turn the page and see a two page spread of this magical, whimsical new animal with a little comment from Hedgehog.  &quot;That would be fun to see.  But I like you just the way you are.&quot;  So begins Marcus Pfister's delightful picture book, and youngsters will revel in all the fun as they watch the hedgehog turn part colorful chameleon, the toucan grow an elephant's trunk and large heavy feet, the chameleon take on long, thin stork legs, the elephant transform into a pouched, jumping kangaroo, and the kangaroo grow a beautiful lion's mane.  Mr Pfister's simple, repetitive text lets little ones &quot;help&quot; you read, and the marvelous, charming hybrid artwork is bold, vibrant, and dazzles with creativity and imagination.  Perfect for preschoolers, this little treasure of a book sends the strong message of friendship, pride, and self-respect;  that you're special &quot;just the way you are&quot; and others admire and accept you because you're you.  &quot;It was a wonderful party filled with good times and good friends.&quot;	2002-06-26
1500551:US	52793250	R2GZXJ5754AXVW	0763609846	262518381	No More!: Stories and Songs of Slave Resistance (BANK STREET COLLEGE OF EDUCATION FLORA STIEGLITZ STRAUS AWARD (AWARDS))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Powerful and Dramatic.....	As author, Doreen Rappaport tells the reader in the forward to this amazing book:  &quot;In No More! I have attempted to trace the courageous struggle waged by enslaved Africans from the time they boarded the first slave ships heading for the New World to emancipation with the ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment.&quot;  Ms Rappaport has compiled slave narratives and folktales, poetry, black spirituals, and biographies in this unique and engaging collection, to tell the brutal and humiliating history of slavery.  Here are the stories of eleven extraordinary people, from the well know Frederick Douglass, Harriet Tubman, and Booker T. Washington, to Suzie King Taylor who learned to read and write in a secret school and helped forge documents, and John Scobell, a runaway slave who spied for the Union Army.  These are stories of resistance, rebellion, triumph and courage that inspire with their power.  Ms Rappaports moving and dramatic text draws the reader in and transports you back in time on a historical journey from Africa, to the Middle Passage, the hard life on the plantation, and the taste of freedom on the Underground Railroad, to the Civil War and finally emancipation.  Shane Evans bold and powerfully evocative oil paintings capture the emotions of pain, determination, hope, fear, and dignity in each beautiful portrait.  Together, word and art put a very human face on the ugliness and inhumanity of slavery.  No More! should be &quot;must&quot; reading for all children 10 and older.  &quot;On December 18, 1865, the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution, abolishing slavery in all states and territories, became the law of the reunited land.  Black men, women, and children set out to meet their next challenge - freedom.&quot;	2002-06-23
1500826:US	52793250	R2SLV8FFEJI4V5	0888994486	465431914	Stella, Fairy of the Forest	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Let's Find Fairies......	Stella's back, with her self-assured manner and flaming red hair, and she's ready to take her little brother, Sam, on a forest adventure in search of fairies.  And as they walk through the meadow filled with wild flowers and sheep, and cross the stream on stepping stones, Sam is filled with questions and thoughtful comments about the world around them, and as always Stella has all the answers.  &quot;Do butterflies eat butter?&quot; asked Sam.  &quot;Yellow butterflies do,&quot; said Stella.  &quot;Then I guess blue butterflies eat pieces of sky,&quot; said Sam.  And so it goes as they enter the forest filled with &quot;big old trees.&quot;  &quot;Are they older than Grandma?&quot; asked Sam.  &quot;Almost,&quot; said Stella.  &quot;They must be at least a hundred years old.&quot;  &quot;Is that why their skin is so wrinkled?&quot; asked Sam.  &quot;That's not skin,&quot; said Stella.  &quot;That's bark.&quot;  &quot;Grandma's bark is much softer,&quot; said Sam.  &quot;Especially on her cheeks.&quot;  The adventure continues as they watch and discuss forest animals, snakes, and the origin and growth of rocks, build a forest house out of ferns and branches, and watch for fairies.....  No one captures the essence of small children, out for a day of imaginative fun and adventure quite like Marie-Louise Gay.  Her gentle text is entertaining and engaging, and her ear for sibling dialogue and chatter is unrivaled.  It's easy to believe that you're tagging along with Stella and Sam, and listening in on their conversations.  Ms Gay's bright and expressive illustrations are captivating, and filled with joy, whimsy, and marvelous detail.  Together word and art offer a feast for both the ears and eyes.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Stella Fairy Of The Forest is a wonderful new addition to Ms Gay's Stella series.  Read them all and enjoy!	2002-06-23
1501331:US	52793250	RTPOYAMJA8IDN	0786805013	901586805	Mud Is Cake	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Make Believe and Let's Pretend.....	&quot;Mud is cake/if you pretend/and don't really take a bite./And juice is tea/with a fairy queen/if you act it out just right.&quot;  Pam Munoz Ryan takes us into the charming world of child's make believe in this gentle and whimsical picture book.  A box can be a hideout, and a stick is a wand.  A tree is a spaceship, your tub is a boat and the &quot;couch is a store when you display a variety of shoes.&quot;  And you can be a tiger, prowling and growling, or a kitten, curled on someone's lap, a hero, or a champion, or even the one who runs away, if you want.  David McPhail's captivating, bright and colorful illustrations complement the text beautifully and engage the reader.  Together word and art send a simple message:  Let your imagination run free and have fun.  &quot;You can be most anything/in dreams, or wide-awake./If you agree that juice is tea.../...if you believe/that mud is cake.&quot;  Perfect for preschoolers, Mud Is Cake is a sweet and simple, timeless treasure that little ones will want to read and act out again and again.  &quot;	2002-06-22
1501540:US	52793250	R16HYHB6I78SLC	0698113632	921876551	Millions of Cats (Paperstar)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One in a Million.....	&quot;Once upon a time there was a very old man and a very old woman.  They lived in a nice clean house which had flowers all around it, except where the door was.  But they couldn't be happy because they were so very lonely...&quot;  So begins Wanda Gag's 1928 masterpiece, Millions Of Cats, and this little treasure is as fresh and appealing today, as it was almost 75 years ago.  The old man, wanting to make his wife happy, sets out to find her a cat.  He travels far and wide until he comes to a hill covered with cats.  &quot;Cats here, cats there,/Cats and kittens everywhere,/Hundreds of cats,/Thousands of cats,/Millions and billions and trillions of cats.&quot;  But which one should the old man choose to take home with him?  Just as he picks out one pretty kitty, he spies another he can't leave behind and then another, and on and on until soon he's bringing all &quot;those hundreds and thousands and millions and billions and trillions&quot; of cats home with him.....  Ms Gag's engaging text begs to be read aloud, and youngsters will revel in &quot;helping&quot; you read the entertaining singsong refrain over and over again.  Her charming black ink illustrations are filled with marvelous detail that captures the story beautifully.  Perfect for kids 3-7, Millions Of Cats is a timeless classic to read and share now with family and friends, and with future generations in the years to come.	2002-06-22
1503620:US	52793250	RM1U6UMQCHSQ7	0763617164	694584002	This Little Chick (New York Times Best Illustrated Children's Books (Awards))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Lots of Fun with Animal Sounds.....	&quot;This little chick from over the way/went to play with the pigs one day./And what do you think/They heard him say?&quot;  So begins John Lawrence's exuberant picture book, and preschoolers will enjoy all the wonderful animal talk as Little Chick makes his way around the barnyard, imitating all his friends.  He oinks with the pigs, quacks with the ducks, moos with the cows, baas with the lambs, and even ribbits with the frogs.  And when he finally arrives home, shows his mother hen all he's learned that day.  Mr Lawrence's repetitive, singsong text is cheerful and engaging and little ones will love &quot;helping&quot; you read, and practicing their animal sounds.  But it's the large, bold and vibrant artwork, filled with humor and expressive detail, that really makes this book stand out and sparkle.  This Little Chick is a happy, fun-filled read aloud, and a soon to be favorite at your house.	2002-06-20
1503685:US	52793250	R7SJZ5M5VJZOM	0689851928	942861036	America : A Patriotic Primer	Books	4	22	36	N	N	The ABC's of the USA.....	Join Lynne Cheney and Robin Preiss Glasser as they take you on a alphabetical history lesson in America:  A Patriotic Primer.  Ms Cheney's short, letter by letter text is a bit dry and uninspired, as in &quot;C is for the Constitution that binds us together&quot;, &quot;O is for the Oath new Americans take&quot;, or &quot;U is for United States&quot;, and her simple explanations tend to be more preachy than informatiive.  It's Ms Glasser's incomparably, bold, busy, and exuberant artwork that really make this book a winner.  Each page is filled with detailed illustrations, creative borders, famous quotations, anecdotes, clever fun facts, trivia, and more.  Young and old alike will enjoy poring over and exploring each fascinating and inventive page, and you're sure to find something new and exciting each and every time you open the book.  Perfect for children of all ages, parents and teachers should use America:  A Patriotic Primer as an introduction to famous Americans, historical events, and important ideas, to whet the appetite and send kids out looking for more.	2002-06-20
1504293:US	52793250	R3L8637XB3RJFP	0881061166	618188732	Henry David's House	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Living the Simple Life.....	&quot;Near the end of March I borrowed an axe and went down to the woods by Walden Pond and began to cut down some tall white pines for timber...&quot;  Author, Steven Schnur has chosen several wonderfully engaging passages from Henry David Thoreau's Walden, in this elegant picture book, and young readers will really get a vivid sense of the hard, yet rewarding work of building his house, the few possessions needed to live comfortably, the beauty of the changing seasons, and living the simple life in harmony with nature.  &quot;Sometimes, in a summer morning, having taken my accustomed bath, I sat in my sunny doorway from sunrise till noon, rapt in a revery, amidst the pines and hickories and sumachs, in undisturbed solitude and stillness, while the birds sang around or flitted noiseless through the house, until by the sun falling in at my west window, or the noise of some traveller's wagon on the distant highway, I was reminded of the lapse of time.&quot;  Peter Fiore's lush and exquisite watercolor illustrations bring the splendor of Thoreau's existence at Walden Pond to life on the page, and together word and art evoke feelings of peace, quiet, and contentment.  Perfect for readers 8-12, this book works well as a real aloud with D.B. Johnson's Henry Builds a Cabin, for younger children.  With an editor's note at the end to fill in further biographical details about Thoreau and his time at Walden, Henry David's House is an evocative treasure to read, share, and most of all discuss.  &quot;We can never have enough of Nature.&quot;	2002-06-19
1504686:US	52793250	RAEJNL38HGINV	0618114521	884764430	Rembrandt's Hat	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Finding the Perfect Hat.....	&quot;On what began as a fine day, a bear named Rembrandt lost his hat.  He had stopped in the park to watch a clown juggle eggs, and while he was watching, a gust of wind snagged the tip of his hat and carried it away, just like that...&quot;  A good day turned suddenly bad, and even with the help of a well-meaning bird, cat, and rabbit, poor Rembrandt can't find the right replacement for his much loved and prized possession.....  Susan Blackaby and Mary Newell DePalma have authored a simple, little magical tale, full of endearing characters and hats of every shape, size, and color.  Ms Blackaby's gentle text, with its humorous dialogue, poses the problem.  But it's Ms DePalma's vibrant and engaging illustrations that really tell the story and steal the show, and little ones will enjoy all the marvelous, expressive details found in each picture.  With its satisfying, happily-ever-after ending, Rembrandt's Hat is perfect for youngsters 4-8, and a sweet lesson in patience and perseverance that shouldn't be missed	2002-06-19
1505246:US	52793250	R18GXB9KUWUP8	0399148507	841781693	Flash Over	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Powerful Sequel.....	FDNY Marshal, Georgia Skeehan, knew something was amiss when she investigated the apartment fire of Dr Louise Rosen.  The brass wanted this one closed with an easy drunk and smoking in bed determination.  But the autopsy showed Dr Rosen hadn't even had a sip of alcohol, and there was no sign in the apartment that she was a smoker;  no cigarettes, matches, or ashtrays.  Georgia is convinced it's arson, and when the doctor's former partner is also killed in a suspicious fire, she begins digging into their pasts and finds these two had an infamous reputation of denying pensions to firefighters disabled in the line of duty.  At the same time, Georgia's best friend, NYPD Detective, Connie Ruiz, goes missing.  Her apartment is soaked in blood and riddled with bullets, and to top it off, Georgia's boyfriend, fire marshal, Mac Marenko is charged with her supposed murder.  Add to that a pipeline bomb threat and poor Georgia's got more than her hands full as she investigates these seemingly unrelated crimes.  As the pieces begin to come together, she finds that a clue from the distant past may be the answer to the murder and mayhem surrounding the FDNY today..... This is Suzanne Chazin's second Georgia Skeehan thriller, and like the first, The Fourth Angel, this novel starts off with a bang.  The prologue and first chapter of Flash Over are so harrowing and compelling that it's impossible to stop reading.  The fast paced plot is intriguing, and Ms Chazin's extensive knowledge and expertise in the inner workings of the fire department, arson, and fire investigations adds real credibility to the story.  Her characters are original and interesting, and the writing, for the most part entertaining and intelligent.  Unfortunately, this time around, Ms Chazin trades in tight, tense, and suspenseful for melodrama and hand wringing, and this detracts from the story line and bogs down the plot.  That said, she pulls it all together for a stunning climax and satisfying, solid ending that doesn't disappoint.	2002-06-18
1505511:US	52793250	R1R6K3LBJV5W05	0439273161	851228585	Zat Cat! A Haute Couture Tail	Books	5	0	0	N	N	C'est Magnifique.....	&quot;He was born a fine cat in the heart of Paree, the youngest of six in his petite family.  But his mischievous ways led him astray.  Now he roams about town, down the Champs Elysees, and when the mood strikes him, he dines au cafe...&quot;  Oh Zat Cat!  He owns Paris, from the Louvre, to Jardin Luxembourg.  And when he ventures into Le Grand Salon du Grand Couturier, Monsieur Pierre, an unexpected mishap creates havoc, and poor Monsieur's entire collection is completely ruined.  &quot;Before he can even meow or blink, he's whisked off his feet by a sash in pink!  He flies through the air, clawing hats and hair.  Ball gowns of satin are shredded to bits.  Laces and ribbons totally ripped...&quot;  But the show must go on, and as the disheveled models in ripped dresses take to the runway...&quot;Whispers of wonder turn to roars of delight, as our four-legged friend struts into the light.  So original, exotic, and free.  These ingenious designs C'est la &quot;Rage&quot; de Paree!&quot;  Chesley McLaren's lively, rhyming text is rich in clever wordplay, both French and English, energy, and puns, and includes phonetic help and translations tucked quietly at the bottom of each page.  But it's Ms McLaren's marvelously vibrant, busy, and innovative artwork, swirling boldly around the pages, that really makes this picture book sparkle.  Together word and art create an engaging feast for both the ears and eyes that begs to be read aloud and shared.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Zat Cat! is a masterpiece of humor and wit, and one of the new, stand-out children's books of 2002 that shouldn't be missed.	2002-06-18
1506006:US	52793250	R277H0I186C9OA	0439273161	851228585	Zat Cat! A Haute Couture Tail	Books	5	7	7	N	N	C'est Magnifique.....	&quot;He was born a fine cat in the heart of Paree, the youngest of six in his petite family.  But his mischievous ways led him astray.  Now he roams about town, down the Champs Elysees, and when the mood strikes him, he dines au cafe...&quot;  Oh Zat Cat!  He owns Paris, from the Louvre, to Jardin Luxembourg.  And when he ventures into Le Grand Salon du Grand Couturier, Monsieur Pierre, an unexpected mishap creates havoc, and poor Monsieur's entire collection is completely ruined.  &quot;Before he can even meow or blink, he's whisked off his feet by a sash in pink!  He flies through the air, clawing hats and hair.  Ball gowns of satin are shredded to bits.  Laces and ribbons totally ripped...&quot;  But the show must go on, and as the disheveled models in ripped dresses take to the runway...&quot;Whispers of wonder turn to roars of delight, as our four-legged friend struts into the light.  So original, exotic, and free.  These ingenious designs C'est la &quot;Rage&quot; de Paree!&quot;  Chesley McLaren's lively, rhyming text is rich in clever wordplay, both French and English, energy, and puns, and includes phonetic help and translations tucked quietly at the bottom of each page.  But it's Ms McLaren's marvelously vibrant, busy, and innovative artwork, swirling boldly around the pages, that really makes this picture book sparkle.  Together word and art create an engaging feast for both the ears and eyes that begs to be read aloud and shared.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Zat Cat! is a masterpiece of humor and wit, and one of the new, stand-out children's books of 2002 that shouldn't be missed.	2002-06-18
1507610:US	52793250	R24ZNEUQUKO1W	0689850875	302067756	Olivia Counts	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Let's Count.....	Olivia's back with her very own little counting board book, and those who love Ian Falconer's irrepressible piglet will be happy to count along with her from one to ten.  This is a very straightforward counting book.  There's no real text, entertaining rhymes, or engaging descriptions.  Just the simple format of 1 one ball, 2 two bows, 3 three pots of paint and so on.  The joy of the book are Mr Falconer's expressive Olivia illustrations, rendered in black and white with his signature splashes of red for highlighting.  This is enough for toddlers just learning to count and recognize their numbers, but  preschoolers over three will be bored.	2002-06-16
1509909:US	52793250	R3945RMT19TYJ5	0789484544	38432214	Smithsonian Presidents and First Ladies	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Meet the Presidents...and First Ladies	Do you know which president was nicknamed &quot;Little Magician&quot;, which first lady, with no formal schooling, secretly ran the government single-handedly while her husband was seriously ill, or which president won his election for only one vote, causing him to bear the nickname &quot;Your Fraudulency&quot;?  James Barber and Amy Pastan have outdone themselves with this intriguing and well organized introduction to both the men who've led our country, the women they married, and sometimes their official hostesses.  Each entry includes a short biographical paragraph of the president and first lady, sidebars of important dates and facts (birth, marriage, party affiliation, inauguration, death...), portraits or photographs, a marvelous timeline of key events in their lives, and also  highlights an important episode or event that occurred during the presidency.  The text is easy to read, entertaining, and engaging and filled with history, trivia, informative fun facts, anecdotes, and drama, that's sure to whet the appetites of youngsters 9 and older, and send them looking for more.  Smithsonian Presidents And First Ladies is a fascinating and compelling little reference book, and a slice of history that shouldn't be missed.  So read on and find out which president never lost an election during his entire political career, and enjoy.	2002-06-14
1510335:US	52793250	R1YH1BSF6ZTN2O	1886910499	509490446	Have You Ever Done That?	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dream of Wonderful Possibilities.....	&quot;Have you ever slept outside on a hot summer night?/Everything looks different/in the moon's strange light./The trees seem to whisper/so you bravely whisper back./Outside at night./Have you ever done that?&quot;  Each beautifully poetic question is answered &quot;I've never...&quot;, and then continues on with &quot;but I've...&quot;  From riding in a storm tossed boat,  to picking up a snake, and nursing a sick baby bird, to flying out across the river on a rope swing &quot;...and I knew that the water/was deep and cold and black./And I still let go./Have you ever done that?&quot;  Julie Larios explores the small wonders, possibilities, and accomplishments of a preschooler's world in this lovely and evocative picture book.  Her rhyming text is full of imagery and magic, and complemented by Anne Hunter's beautiful watercolor illustrations, in quiet, subdued tones that send imaginations soaring.  With its soothing, lyrical cadence, Have You Ever Done That? is perfect for lulling little ones to sleep at bedtime.  &quot;When the river is deep/and the corn snakes pause,/when the wild waves call/and the wounded crow caws,/Just stretch your wings/in the moon's strange light./You can start by sleeping out on a hot summer night.&quot;	2002-06-13
1510503:US	52793250	R685QTZGGNYOC	0805063528	649021860	Hondo and Fabian	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Day in the Life.....	Come spend the day with Hondo, the dog and Fabian, the cat.  &quot;Fabian on the windowsill,/Hondo on the floor-/two sleepy pets/in their favorite places.&quot;  Hondo's off in the car for a day at the beach, to play with his doggy friend, Fred.  Fabian will stay home and play with &quot;the baby.&quot;  Hondo and Fred dive in the waves.  Fabian, with baby close behind, dives for the door.  They both have a fun-filled day in their own ways.  Hondo chases Fred on the sand, while Fabian unrolls the toilet paper.  They both begin to feel hungry.  Hondo eyes a fish in a bucket caught by a fisherman, while Fabian stares at a turkey sandwich on the table.  And as the day winds down and Hondo comes home, they both eat their respective dinners, side by side, and then curl up in their favorite places to sleep for the night.....  Peter McCarty's simple, gentle text is perfect for preschoolers as young as one.  But it's his engaging artwork that really makes this picture book stand out.  Each quiet illustration, in soft, muted tones, is rich in charm and humor, and filled with the joy of an ordinary day.  Hondo &amp; Fabian is an evocative little treasure youngsters will beg to read again and again, and a soothing, reassuring bedtime story that shouldn't be missed.	2002-06-13
1511129:US	52793250	RGQWNHXVDZG8W	0805069976	732666983	I Want to Be a Cowgirl	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Don't Fence Me In.....	As our young narrator tells us in no uncertain terms, she's not interested in being a good girl, or a girly girl, sitting around with friends chatting, having tea parties, and playing with dolls.  That's not her idea of fun.  She definitely doesn't want to have her head in a book, or cook, clean, and sew.  And as for high-rise living in the big city, well this young lady yearns to live on the prairie, breaking broncos, driving cattle, twirling her lasso, and sleeping under the stars.  And that's just what she plans to do.  &quot;I've got my shiny spurs and boots,/I've got my cowgirl hat-/I'm leaving for the Wild, Wild West./Now what's so wrong with that?&quot;  Jeanne Willis and Tony Ross have authored an imaginative and humorous ode to the wild, wild west, with a very satisfying, feel-good ending, that's sure to become a read aloud favorite at your house.  Ms Willis' rhyming text is entertaining and engaging, and begs to be read with a lilting western drawl.  Mr Ross' charming and creative, cartoon-like artwork is rich in expressive, wild west images, and sharp eyed readers will enjoy poring over the illustrations and finding all the special and amusing details in each picture.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, I Want To Be A Cowgirl is a rootin' tootin' good time for little cowpokes with big dreams of their own.	2002-06-13
1511136:US	52793250	R162Q78IXSGXJF	0060006994	456065448	Fix-It Duck	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Watch Out...Here Comes Fix-It Duck.....	&quot;Plop! goes the drip that drops in the cup.  Duck looks down and Duck looks up.  A leak in the roof.  Oh, what bad luck!  This is a job for...FIX-IT DUCK.&quot;  Now, how to fix that roof.  It's way too high to reach, so he drives over to his friend, Sheep's house to borrow a ladder.  While there, he hears a &quot;rattle, creak, and squeak.&quot;  Sheep's window is stuck.  Never fear...this is a job for Fix-It Duck.  &quot;He does what he can to close up the gap.  He glues it, screws it, and gives it a tap.&quot;  SMASH.....  And so begins an entertaining chain of events story that will have little ones giggling as Fix-It Duck causes one mishap after another while trying to &quot;help&quot; his friends.  Jez Alborough's lilting, rhyming text is engaging, and filled with energy, rhythm, and humor.  Bold, bright, and busy cartoon artwork adds just the right touch to this hilarious misadventure, and sharp readers will notice the source of Duck's leaky roof trouble on the endpapers and title page (a running bathtub faucet), and will revel in the fact that they're in on the joke.  Perfect for preschoolers, Fix-It Duck is a wonderful, manic romp that begs to be shared and read aloud, and a terrific sequel to Mr Alborough's Duck In The Truck.	2002-06-13
1512444:US	52793250	R2PQUCDQWHTUU	0060014237	617328137	Ice Cream	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Delicious.....	&quot;It starts with a cow.&quot;  So begins Elisha Cooper's entertaining and inventive picture book, Ice Cream.  From the cows grazing on grass in the pasture, to the yummy final product being delivered to stores, Mr Cooper details each fascinating step in the creation of everyone's favorite treat.  His engaging text, that often winds its way creatively around the page, is informative and filled with simple, straightforward explanations, marvelous machine sound effects, and subtle humor, and is enhanced by charming pencil and watercolor artwork.  Perfect for kids 7-10, or for reading aloud to younger children, Ice Cream is non-fiction at its very best, and a delicious little masterpiece you don't want to miss.	2002-06-12
1513467:US	52793250	R1T7G22WDTUCZ9	061821612X	197311664	Hooway for Wodney Wat	Books	5	3	4	N	N	To Be a Hero, Just Be Yourself.....	Poor Rodney Rat...he can't say his R's, and life at P.S. 142, where all his classmates tease him mercilessly, is pretty miserable.  &quot;All of this teasing day in and day out made Wodney the shyest rodent in his elementary school.  His squeak could barely be heard in class.  He gnawed lunch alone.  And while the other rodents scurried and scooted about at recess, Wodney hid inside his jacket.  Then one day, a new student, Camilla Capybara, entered the class and began to wreak havoc.  &quot;I'm bigger than any of you.  I'm meaner than any of you.  And I'm smarter than any of you.&quot;  And she meant it!  That afternoon, poor Wodney Wat's luck turned from bad to worse.  He was chosen to lead the daily game of Simon Says and his speech impediment, unfamiliar to Camilla, suddenly became an asset.....  The dynamic duo who brought us the wonderful Tacky books, have written an engaging story that will have kids cheering for this shy little underdog as he becomes the class hero and saves the day.  Helen Lester's simple, gentle text is complemented by Lynn Munsinger's bold, bright, and expressive artwork, and together they've authored an entertaining story about an endearing character, that's filled with insight, wisdom and humor.  This is a story that will inspire little ones to have courage, and to stand up and believe in themselves.  &quot;And from that day on the pupils of P.S. Elementary School for Rodents never teased Wodney again.  He was their hero.  &quot;Hooway for Wodney Wat!&quot; they cried.  &quot;Woot!  Woot!  Wooty-toot-toot!&quot;  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Hooway For Wodney Wat is a treasure.	2002-06-11
1514034:US	52793250	RVFU7ZAHYI3A9	0439399785	252405949	Tulip Sees America (Rise and Shine)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	See the Wonders of America.....	&quot;When I was a boy, I didn't see much of America.  My parents were homebodies, so I stayed home.  But when I grew up, I knew I was different.  I wanted to see America.  So I bought a little green Beetle and in it I put a small box of clothes, a small bag of food, and my dog, Tulip.  And we left Ohio and went across America.  This is what we saw:&quot;  Inspired by author, Cynthia Rylant's own cross country trip, Tulip Sees America takes the reader on a marvelous and evocative journey from the farms of Iowa, and the vast skies of Nebraska, through windy Wyoming, the glorious mountains of Colorado, the beautiful and mysterious desert of Nevada, to Oregon, with its towering, rugged cliffs and boundless, blue ocean.  Ms Rylant's eloquent and engaging text is poetic and complemented by Lisa Desimini's bold and vibrant landscapes that capture America in all its splendor.  Together word and art send imaginations soaring as they take young travelers on a joyous and fascinating adventure.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Tulip Sees America is a quiet little treasure the entire family can share, and a wonderful addition to all home bookshelves.	2002-06-10
1514589:US	52793250	R1OMNAZSCEH3PA	0316563919	167031677	Edward in the Jungle	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Edward, Tarzan, and a Great Adventure.....	Young Edward loves to read, especially adventure books, and so on this sunny afternoon he takes his set of animals &quot;just like the animals in Tarzan's jungle&quot; out to the &quot;jungle&quot; behind his house.  &quot;He spread them out around him, then lay back on the cool moss and opened another Tarzan adventure.&quot;  Edward was enjoying his book so much that he didn't notice the crocodile creeping silently his way until it was almost too late.  &quot;The crocodile lunged at Edward, but at that instant Edward was snatched out of the way by none other than Tarzan himself, and a moment later they were swinging through the trees on a sturdy vine...&quot;  David McPhail is back with another reading adventure, and kids who loved Edward And The Pirates are sure to enjoy his latest &quot;Edward&quot; picture book.  Mr McPhail's text is entertaining and exciting, and only outdone by his amazing bold and vivid illustrations that transport young adventurers to the deep, dark jungle for an intriguing fantasy filled with danger, heroics and lots of fun.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Edward In The Jungle sends kids a wonderful and subtle message about the power of reading...You can go anywhere, do anything, and be anyone, when you open a book and let your imagination soar.	2002-06-10
1514884:US	52793250	RQJ43A585NKSZ	0152622101	598989563	Pish, Posh, Said Hieronymus Bosch	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Introducing Hieronymus Bosch.....	&quot;Once upon a time there was an artist named Hieronymus Bosch who loved odd creatures.  Not a day passed that the good woman who looked after his house didn't find a new creature lurking in a corner or sleeping in a cupboard...&quot;  So begins Nancy Willard's inventive picture book about this mysterious Dutch painter who filled his canvasses with fantastic and intriguing beings of all shapes and sizes.  This poor housekeeper couldn't take it anymore.  &quot;I'm quitting your service, I've had quite enough/of your three-legged thistles asleep in my wash,/of scrubbing the millstone you use for a dish,/and riding to shops on a pickle-winged fish.&quot;  She packs her bags and leaves, but once out on her own, finds she misses all the chaos her employer's imagination brings to life, and comes flying back home on that pickle-winged fish to a happily-ever-after ending.....  Ms Willard's clever, rhyming text has a medieval look and feel, and a lyrical cadence that begs to be read aloud.  But it's Diane and Leo Dillons' amazing and evocative artwork that really makes this book stand out and sparkle.  Youngsters will enjoy poring over and exploring the bold and engaging pictures of two headed dragons, dancing cucumbers, monkeys, and lizards, and beehives in boots... and are sure to find something new and exciting each and every time they open the book.  Perfect for kids 5 and older, Pish, Posh, Said Hieronymus Bosch is a creative and entertaining introduction and includes a short biography at the end to complete the story.  This is definitely a picture book budding art lovers shouldn't miss.	2002-06-09
1516286:US	52793250	R36GAC0ZZRTP36	0803725795	38665964	A World of Wonders: Geographic Travels in Verse and Rhyme	Books	5	16	16	N	N	&quot;Travel by Poem.....&quot;	&quot;So many places have fabulous names./Like Fried, North Dakota,/The Court of St. James./Siberia, Nigeria, Elyria, Peru,/The White Nile, Black Sea,/And Kalamazoo!/The Great Wall of China, South Pole and Loch Ness,/And 104 Fairview - that's my address!//  Thousands of spaces are places to be-/Discover the World of GE-OG-RA-PHY!//  Travel by boat or by car or by plane/To visit East Africa, Singapore, Spain./Go by yourself or invite a good friend,/But traveling by poem is what I recommend.&quot;  J. Patrick Lewis takes the reader on a marvelous geographic journey through poetry.  From those who discovered and mapped our world, Columbus, Magellan, and Marco Polo, and amazing phenomena, the Aurora Borealis, San Adreas Fault, stalactites, and stalagmites, to oceans, islands, mountains, places, names, and geographic terms, Mr Lewis fills his poems with the many wonders of our amazing world.  Each clever and creative verse is full of interesting and engaging facts, trivia, and fascinating details, and complemented by Alison Jay's beautiful and expressive, evocative artwork, in the soft subdued tones of old maps and globes.  Together word and art bring geography to life with imagery, magic, and wit.  Perfect for youngsters 9-12, A World Of Wonders is an innovative and inventive collection that challenges the imagination and sends it soaring.  &quot;Make the Earth your companion./Walk lightly on it, as other creatures do.&quot;	2002-06-08
1516433:US	52793250	R1GAO49M163MER	0689845065	717971194	Giggle, Giggle, Quack (A Click, Clack Book)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Watch Out for Duck...He's Trouble!	Farmer Brown is taking a much needed vacation, and brother Bob will be taking care of things around the farm until he gets back.  &quot;I wrote everything down for you.  Just follow my instructions and everything will be fine.  But keep an eye on Duck.  He's trouble.&quot;  And all sharp eyed readers will notice the pencil duck is eyeing as Farmer Brown drives away.  Soon the fun begins as Bob reads the first note.  &quot;Tuesday night is pizza night (not the frozen kind!).  The hens prefer anchovies.&quot;  As the week progresses, the instructions become more outrageous.  &quot;Wednesday is bath day for the pigs.  Wash them with my favorite bubble bath and dry them off with my good towels.  Remember, they have very sensitive skin...&quot;  &quot;Thursday night is movie night.  It's the cows' turn to pick...&quot;  And when Farmer Brown finally calls home to check in and Duck answers the phone, he realizes the animals have really pulled a fast one on poor old unaware Bob...Giggle, giggle, quack, giggle, moo, giggle, oink.....  The dynamic duo, Doreen Cronin and Betsy Lewin, who authored Click Clack Moo: Cows That Type, are back and in fine form with this clever and hilarious sequel.  Ms Cronin's droll text is engaging and sets the scene.  But it's Ms Lewin's bold and busy, cartoon-like artwork that really steals the show, and youngsters will revel in the fact that they're in on the joke as they enjoy all the subtle details, marvelous animal facial expressions, and entertaining barnyard scenes.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Giggle, Giggle, Quack is a silly, funny, manic adventure that definitely shouldn't be missed.	2002-06-08
1517758:US	52793250	RA9X4I2HA89DH	0446530239	84426835	If Looks Could Kill	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Murder and Misdirection in Manhattan.....	&quot;Cat Jones was the kind of woman who not only got everything in the world that she wanted - in her case a fabulous job as editor in chief of one of the biggest women's magazines, a gorgeous town house in Manhattan, and a hot looking husband with a big career of his own...&quot;  And as thirty-something, newly divorced, true-crime reporter, Bailey Weggins, makes clear...When your boss and friend, Cat Jones, says &quot;Jump,&quot; you ask, &quot;How high,&quot;...even if it's early Sunday morning, and it has nothing to do with business.  When a frantic phone call sends Bailey uptown to the Jones' brownstone, she finds one very dead live-in nanny, and one very scared and upset editor.  The police suspect poisoning, and the culprit turns out to be a half eaten box of Godiva chocolates.  It soon becomes clear that the intended victim may not have been the nanny at all.  Using her crime-writing investigative skills, Bailey jumps into this mess with both feet, and unofficially starts asking hard questions, and in the process, ruffling more than a few feathers.  And with no lack of suspects or motives, it becomes crystal clear that if she's not careful, she might be next.....  Take Sex In The City, add a little Murder She Wrote, and you've got Kate White's debut mystery, If Looks Could Kill.  Her well paced plot twists, turns, and keeps the reader guessing to the end.  The writing is breezy and entertaining, the characters fun, though a bit light and underdeveloped, and as Cosmopolitan's editor and chief, Ms White's indepth knowledge of New York City, and expertise in the fashion world and magazine business, adds real credibility to the story.  This is the perfect whodunit for lazy days at the beach or a long plane ride, and with the promise of a new series, Bailey Weggins is a character you'll certainly want to get to know.	2002-06-06
1520271:US	52793250	R29IB2XKVOSP7I	0152026762	731638419	Sixteen Cows	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Rootin' Tootin' Good Time.....	Meet Cowboy Gene Biddle and Cowgirl Sue Waddle, neighbors and cow lovers, living peacefully on the western prairie.  Each went about their daily ranch chores until it was time to call their cows home.  Then with a loud and strong voice, each would sing their &quot;come-home song,&quot; calling every cow by name.  &quot;Now Waddle Ranch was on a hill and sat right next to Biddle./And where each ranch's pasture met, a fence ran down the middle./So Biddle cows and Waddle cows were not in any danger/of getting mixed at grazing time and dining with a stranger.&quot;  That is, until a fierce Arkansas wind blew that old fence &quot;plumb clean away.&quot;  Now with their cows all mixed up, what are a couple of cowpokes going to do to separate their herds and bring them home.....  Lisa Wheeler's spirited and engaging, happily ever after, good-time story, complete with western dialogue, begs to be read aloud.  Her entertaining, rhyming text is full of energy, humor, and wild west fun.  Kurt Cyrus' bold and busy artwork captures the story beautifully, and is rich in expressive and charming detail.  Together this duo have authored a playful and silly &quot;love story&quot; that is sure to keep your little cowpokes smiling and giggling to the very last page.  So find out how sixteen cows finally brought these two lonely ranchers together, and enjoy.	2002-06-04
1521029:US	52793250	RE0VH62JMTLTT	0689843690	914408697	Wool Gathering: A Sheep Family Reunion	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Lambly Reunion.....	&quot;Ewes/and rams/and little lambs,/arrive in buses, trucks, and vans./They travel far to meet their kin./Each cousin wears a sheepish grin./And as the flock begins to gather,/you will see they're really rather/odd, but in a woolly way./So stay-/each ewe, each ram, each little lambly-/stay and meet this close-knit fambly.&quot;  Come enjoy the day with Odd Ephram, &quot;...the cousin/that no one talks about./He traded in his woolly coat/and now wears sauerkraut&quot;, Aunt Eweginia, Sister Alabaster, &quot;...with fleece as white as snow,/is a Kung-Fu master,/excels at Tae Kwon Do...&quot;, and Old Ramses, Little Bo Sheep, Felice, &quot;...her wool is big and puffy./Says Felice,/I'm not obese!/Don't call me fat.  I'm fluffy!&quot;, Uncle Abe Ram, Woolverton, and the rest of the flock as they brunch and lunch, play baa-dminton, and take a sheep dip in the lake.  Lisa Wheeler's whimsical and charming poems are filled with puns, clever wordplay, and irresistibly endearing characters that will delight readers from 3 to 93.  Frank Ansley's bold and bright artwork adds to all the fun as he captures each verse with expressive humor and wit.  This is a captivating collection that begs to be shared and read aloud.  So meet the flock, and enjoy a great day, because as with all family reunions and great books, the fun is over way too soon.  &quot;So long...farewool...good-baaa.&quot;	2002-06-04
1521488:US	52793250	R2YCQFBJLFNG15	0140505393	70994473	Miss Rumphius	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Make the World More Beautiful.....	When Alice was a little girl she lived in a village by the sea, and in the evenings would sit on her grandfather's knee and listen to his stories of faraway places.  It was then that she decided that when she grew up she too would travel the world, and then, when she grew old, come back home and live in a house by the sea.  Her wise grandfather listened to her dreams and then made her promise to do one more thing.  &quot;You must do something to make the world more beautiful.&quot;  Little Alice grew up;  she was called Miss Rumphius now, and set out on her worldwide adventure.  She visited tropical islands and beaches, climbed mountains, walked through jungles, and across deserts, making friends wherever she went.  And when she was finished traveling, she went home to her house by the sea.  But there was still one more thing Miss Rumphius had to do...fulfill the promise she made to her grandfather, and when she saw lupine flowers blooming outside her window, she knew just what she would do to make the world a more beautiful place.....  Award winning author and illustrator, Barbara Cooney, has written a sweet and simple story, with a lovely message that reminds us all to take a little extra time and make the world a better place in which to live.  Her gentle, eloquent text is enhanced by her beautiful and engaging illustrations that capture the imagination, and send it soaring.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Miss Rumphius is a magical, heartwarming treasure, and a picture book to share with family and friends now, and future generations in the years to come.	2002-06-04
1521662:US	52793250	R9J5QIJ5YL6E3	0064434893	982797871	Art Dog (Trophy Picture Books (Paperback))	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Who is Art Dog?	By day, Arthur Dog, Dogopolis Museum of Art security guard, and lover of paintings by Vincent Van Dog, Pablo Poodle, Henri Muttisse, and Leonardo Dog Vinci.  By night, Art Dog, masked grafitti artist painting the city in beautiful color.  &quot;No one knew who Art Dog really was... until one night at the museum.&quot;  Yikes!  Someone has stolen the Mona Woofa!  After being falsely accused, Art Dog paints his way out of jail, lifts his nose in the air...&quot;I can smell art a mile away,&quot; and saves the day in superhero fashion.....  Thacher Hurd has authored an entertaining, wacky picture book that's sure to tickle the funny bones of young and old alike.  His delightful, high-spirited text begs to be read aloud, and is full of terrific sound effects, wordplay, and dog puns.  But it's his bold, bright, and splashy illustrations that really make this book stand out and sparkle.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Art Dog is a funny, engaging, rip-roarin' adventure you don't want to miss.  &quot;Who was Art Dog?  Who was this painter in a Brushmobile, catcher of crooks, bringer of light to the Dogopolis night?&quot;  Only readers will know!	2002-06-03
1524044:US	52793250	R3S8022UXWLCIN	0689831838	994843857	Brooklyn Bridge	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Tribute to the &quot;Eighth Wonder of the World&quot;	&quot;It's magnificent site, monumental twin towers, breathtaking span, cutting-edge technology, and sheer beauty make Brooklyn Bridge the grandest, and perhaps the most important, structure built in America during the nineteenth century.  To people at the time, it seemed almost miraculous.  They called it the Eighth Wonder of the World.&quot;  Lynn Curlee brings this sixteen year triumph of engineering and architectural design to life in his fascinating story of how the Brooklyn Bridge grew from an idea into a reality.  His straightforward and engaging text is rich in history, drama, interesting fun facts, and anecdotes, and complemented by marvelously bold and creative illustrations.  Youngsters will enjoy poring over the detailed and innovative diagrams, watching as the bridge is constructed right before their eyes.  With additional information, statistics, a timeline and short bibliography included at the end, Brooklyn Bridge is non-fiction at its very best, and a captivating history lesson kids 9-12 shouldn't miss.	2002-06-01
1526174:US	52793250	R1CJSIYMSCAHN2	0688126502	508704449	The Wonderful Towers of Watts	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Dream the Big Dream.....	&quot;...Old Sam's real name was Simon Rodia.  He was a small man who dressed in ragged overalls, a shirt with the sleeves cut off, and a greasy hat.  His arms and face were always covered with dust...&quot;  So begins Patricia Zelver's fascinating and engaging true story of an Italian immigrant, with no formal engineering or architectural training, who over a thirty-three year period constructed the Watts Towers in his backyard.  Sam lived in a poor neighborhood called Watts, on the outskirts of Los Angeles.  Over the years he collected all kinds of things other people threw away...broken bottles and tiles, pieces of mirrors and other glass, seashells and bits of pottery.  He spent most of his money on cement, sand, and steel.  Neighbors could hear him working behind his tall fence, and wondered what Sam was doing with all that junk.  &quot;One day, to the neighbors' amazement, something strange and beautiful rose up over the fence in Sam's backyard...&quot;  Ms Zelver's simple and straightforward text is captivating, and complemented by Frane Lessac's bold, bright, and magical artwork, done in an almost childlike style.  Excitement builds with each page turn as the Towers grow taller, more intricate and beautiful.  Perfect for youngsters 5-10, The Wonderful Towers Of Watts is an evocative  treasure that is sure to inspire readers, pique their interest, and send them out looking for more.  As Ms Zelver tells us at the end of the story...&quot;Watts is still a poor part of Los Angeles.  But no other place has the Watts Towers.  Every year people come from all over the world to marvel at Old Sam's crazy dream.&quot;	2002-05-30
1526182:US	52793250	R2EBPH7V5AZ7U8	0618168265	342902526	Angelo	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Power of Friendship.....	This restoration was to be Angelo's crowning glory, his masterpiece, and as he begins his work on the old church, brushing away years of debris left by birds, and searching the nooks and crannies for cracks that would need repair, he comes across a sick and injured pigeon.  Angelo was not a fan of pigeons, after all they made a mess of his buildings, but he couldn't bear to leave this helpless, \\"barely breathing\\" creature to die,  So he scoops her up in his hat and takes her home.  There he names her Sylvia, nurses her back to health, and they become devoted to each other.  As time goes by, Angelo grows older and tires easily, and he worries that he won't be able to finish his \\"crowning achievement\\".  Sylvia works by his side every day, cooing her encouragement, fanning him with her wings in the hot weather, and entertaining him when he rests.  And on a warm November day \\"Angelo finally applied the last coat of stucco to the cherubs in the high pediment.\\"  But he still has one more task to finish before his work is complete.....  David Macaulay has authored a captivating and poignant picture book about an unusual and enduring friendship.  His gentle text is beautifully enhanced by his evocative and expressive illustrations, full of charm, humor, and marvelous architectural detail.  Together word and art tell a heartwarming and endearing story of a life fulfilled by dedication to work and special companionship.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Angelo is told with great insight and wisdom, and makes a terrific read aloud story the entire family can share.	2002-05-30
1529116:US	52793250	RQYN57BXFFINC	0439199964	591374921	The Three Questions [Based on a story by Leo Tolstoy]	Books	5	155	160	N	N	&quot;This Is Why We Are Here&quot;	&quot;There was once a boy named Nikolai who sometimes felt uncertain about the right way to act...&quot;  He wanted to be a good person, but was unsure how to accomplish his goal.  Nikolai had three important questions...When is the best time to do things?  Who is the most important one?  What is the right thing to do?  &quot;If only I could find the answers to my three questions... then I would always know what to do.&quot;  So he decides to seek the counsel of Leo, the turtle.  &quot;He has lived a very long time.  Surely he will know the answers I am looking for.&quot;  But as he reaches Leo's home, high in the mountains, disaster strikes, and without even thinking Nikolai takes action, and in the process finds the answers he's been searching for.....  Based on Leo Tolstoy's short story, Jon Muth has authored a reflective and inspired picture book retelling of The Three Questions.  His simple and eloquent text, with its gentle message of compassion and living for each moment, is enhanced by lovely and evocative watercolor artwork in quiet and subdued tones.  Together word and art answer Nikolai's questions in a captivating and engaging way...&quot;Remember then that there is only one important time, and that time is now.  The most important one is always the one you are with.  And the most important thing is to do good for the one who is standing at your side.  For these, my dear boy, are the answers to what is most important in this world.&quot;  With an Author's Note at the end to augment the story and introduce Tolstoy and his works, The Three Questions is a perfect fable for youngsters 5-9, and is sure to open interesting and thoughtful discussions.	2002-05-28
1529158:US	52793250	RILSVGMU5EAIC	038533558X	734473825	Gone For Good	Books	5	37	40	N	N	Secrets, Lies, Betrayal, and Love.....	Three days before her death, my mother told me-these weren't her last words, but they were pretty close-that my brother was still alive...&quot;  So begins Harlan Coben's powerful and harrowing page-turner, Gone For Good.  Narrated by Will Klein, the youngest son of a middle class New Jersey family, now working as the Director of Covenant House for runaway teens, he recounts the story of his popular and charismatic brother Ken, who eleven years ago vanished after being charged with the rape and murder of a neighborhood college girl.  The Kleins always believed in his innocence, and after so much time passed without a word or clue, had come to the conclusion that Ken must be dead.  This all changes when his mother's declaration sends Will on a search of the house where he finds a current picture of his brother hidden in his mother's bedroom.  Now with the help of his girlfriend, Sheila, the love of his life, he's determined to find Ken, bring him back home, and clear his name.  But his plan soon begins to unravel when Sheila disappears, and her fingerprints are found at a grisly murder scene two thousand miles away in New Mexico.  With the help of Covenant House street friends, Will begins to connect the ghosts of the past with the puzzling events of the present, and uncovers secrets, lies, and betrayals that shake the very foundation of his family, and what they thought to be the truth.....  Harlan Coben has done it again, written a suspenseful and compelling thriller that grabs you from page one and never lets go.  This is a novel that has it all...an intricate story line full of twists, turns, and more than a few unexpected surprises;  smart, clever, and eloquent writing with a real ear for dialogue;  and intense, riveting, vivid scenes that set you on the edge of your seat and keep you there.  But it's Mr Coben's original and marvelously well drawn cast of characters that makes this novel sparkle, and he is able to breathe life into even the most minor figures, and bring them to life on the page.  With a stunning climax and very satisfying ending that ties up all the loose ends, Gone For Good is a roller coaster ride of a thriller that doesn't disappoint, and should definitely find its place at the top of mystery/thriller lovers &quot;must read&quot; lists.	2002-05-28
1534569:US	52793250	R3JHNFULGHE6PK	0670861596	834219314	Eleanor	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Eleanor Roosevelt from the Beginning.....	&quot;From the beginning the baby was a disappointment to her mother.  She was born red and wrinkled, an ugly little thing.  And she was not a boy.&quot;  So begins Barbara Cooney's poignant and inspirational picture book biography of Eleanor Roosevelt's unhappy childhood.  Born to beautiful and gregarious parents, this plain, shy, fearful little girl was orphaned at the young age of nine, and spent a lonely and isolated childhood living in the homes of her fabulously wealthy relatives.  At the age of fifteen, her grandmother sent her off to Allenswood, a boarding school in Britain, and there under the tutelage of headmistress, Mlle. Souvestre, ugly duckling Eleanor began to grow and bloom, becoming the remarkable, poised, and confident woman America loved and admired.....  Ms Cooney's well researched, gentle story is both fascinating and engaging as it captures the essence of an introverted and intelligent child trying to discover her true nature and talents, and is complemented by her marvelously evocative illustrations.  Each picture is filled with meticulous late-nineteenth century detail, from the period dress and grand houses with their opulent interiors, to the captivating streets and parks of New York City, and country life on Long Island.  Together word and art paint an intriguing and captivating picture of both little Eleanor, and the times in which she lived.  With a short afterword detailing some of Mrs Roosevelt's later accomplishments, Eleanor is a superb introduction that is sure to whet the appetite of youngsters 6-10, and send them out looking for more.	2002-05-23
1537225:US	52793250	R5RCSPCLAXXTV	0618131752	627456493	Lucky Boy	Books	5	5	5	N	N	&quot;Lucky&quot; to Have Found Each Other.....	Poor Boy.  He's stuck in the fenced backyard with nothing to do, nothing to see, and nowhere to go.  The Gustin family brought him home on a whim;  he was a freebe in a box at the store.  But they're too busy, and have no time to pay attention to, or love a dog.  So he sits in the yard, sad and lonely, cold in winter and hot in summer.  Next door, on the other side of the tall fence is Mr Miller.  He's all alone and very sad too.  One very hot summer day, Boy began to dig.  He was so hot, and the earth as he dug, grew cooler and cooler, that he kept digging deeper and deeper until he'd dug himself right out of the Gustin's yard.....  Susan Boase has authored an uplifting story with a gentle message that won't be lost on young readers.  The simple, heartfelt text is beautifully enhanced by her engaging and expressive, soft pencil illustrations, and together word and art paint a sweet and tender picture showing how a little love and companionship makes any life happier and more fulfilled.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Lucky Boy is a heartwarming, read-aloud story the entire family can share an enjoy, and definitely one of 2002's best new books.  Kudos to Susan Boase on such an outstanding debut!	2002-05-20
1538868:US	52793250	R37XXMTQK3H0WZ	0761315993	126243661	Tom Mouse (Single Titles)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	See the World with a Friend.....	&quot;Tom Mouse grew up in a hole in the wall of the diner in the station.  His family was content with their cozy nest and the doughnut crumbs and bits of bacon they picked up in the diner.  But Tom watched the great trains come into the station and leave again, and he wished he could go with them...&quot;  So begins Ursula Le Guin's sweet and lovely tale about a little mouse who yearns to leave home and see the big wide world he's heard so much about, and finds a companion to share his travels with.  Tom kisses his family good-bye, scurries aboard a train headed for Chicago, and is off on what he hopes will be the beginning of a lifetime of adventures.  Fortunately, he makes himself at home in Roomette Nine, along with its paying guest, Mrs Powers, an interesting and remarkable woman who, he finds, is not afraid of mice.  In fact, she seems happy to have the company, and shares her snacks and conversation with Tom.  As the trip continues these two form a special alliance, and decide together, that seeing the world would be even more fun and exciting with a friend.....  Told in four short chapters, Ms Le Guin's simple, gentle text is complemented by  Julie Brown's charming and expressive illustrations rendered in warm and soft, subdued tones.  Together word and art bring this endearing little rodent and his story to life, and you can almost feel the motion of the train, and see the world rush by outside the window, as the train speeds on toward Chicago.  Perfect for early readers, or as a read-aloud story the entire family can share together, Tom Mouse is a heartwarming and engaging tale of friendship and adventure that shouldn't be missed, and one of the best new pictures books of 2002.	2002-05-19
1540684:US	52793250	RA4UCDSSY92LB	0689831528	76761662	Muncha! Muncha! Muncha!	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Who's Got the Veggies.....	&quot;For years Mr. McGreely dreamed of planting a garden.  He dreamed of getting his hands dirty, of growing yummy vegetables, and of gobbling them all up...&quot;  This was finally the year.  He bought his supplies, and got to work preparing his garden and planting his seeds.  &quot;...I'll soon fill my tummy with crisp, fresh veggies.&quot;  Unfortunately, he was not the only vegetable lover in the neighborhood.  That night three hungry bunnies found Mr McGreely's garden and made themselves at home.  &quot;Tippy- Tippy- Tippy, Pat!  Muncha! Muncha! Muncha!&quot;  The next morning, when Mr McGreely saw the damage, he was angry.  So he built a nice wire fence around his garden to keep the bunnies out.  But would this simple solution work.....  Candace Fleming has written a wonderful chain of events story with a clever and surprising twist at the end, that's sure to keep little ones giggling with each page turn.  Her delightful text, full of energy and marvelous sound effects, is enhanced by Brian Karas' bold, expressive, and humorous artwork.  Youngsters will revel in all the fun as they watch the battle between gardener and bunnies escalate to the ridiculous, from simple, small wire fence, to taller wooden fence, to moat, and finally maximun security tower complete with barbed wire and lights.  Perfect for kids 3-7, Muncha, Muncha, Muncha is a rip roarin', manic, crowd pleaser, and a picture book children will beg to read over and over again.	2002-05-17
1541806:US	52793250	R2LWC99IDQMZRC	0152531505	36043432	In the Space of the Sky	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Let Your Imagination Soar.....	&quot;There- in the space of the sky is a field for the sun, a sea for the moon, clouds where storms can hide, stars where silence sings...&quot;  So begins Richard Lewis' poetic and captivating, In The Space Of The Sky.  His simple, engaging prose, full of imagery and magic explores the wonders of the world around us... from the tiny snail curled in it's shell, to the immense sky above us and earth below, to even our gentle dreams each night as we sleep.  Debra Frasier's bold and bright, geometric, collage  artwork sparkles as it swirls around the pages, and complements the expressive text beautifully.  Together word and art create an evocative masterpiece that is sure to send little imaginations soaring with each page turn.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, In The Space Of The Sky is a soothing and reassuring bedtime story children will beg to read again and again, and a picture book that shouldn't be missed.	2002-05-16
1545575:US	52793250	RQD2B2CE46PIS	0152010254	308610755	The Magic Hat	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Hat Magic Fun for Everyone.....	&quot;One fine day, from out of town, and without any warning at all, there appeared a magic hat.&quot;  So begins Mem Fox's marvelous new picture book, and youngsters are in for a delightful treat as they watch this attractive, blue chapeau drift through the countryside, landing on unsuspecting heads and turning them into animals.  Her engaging, rhyming text is full of energy, rhythm, and motion, and little ones will enjoy helping you read the repetitive lines, &quot;Oh, the magic hat, the magic hat!  It moved like this, it moved like that!...&quot; as the hat travels on its way to a new head.  Tricia Tusa's bold, bright and humorous, action-filled illustrations are full of lots of expressive detail that just adds to all the fun.  With a joyous, satisfying ending that sets everything right, The Magic Hat is a magical, rip roarin', read aloud, good time that preschoolers shouldn't miss.	2002-05-13
1546037:US	52793250	R3C5KJ31DKQ0DW	0374346992	337309433	Madlenka's Dog	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Madlenka's Back.....	&quot;In the universe, on a planet, on a continent, in a country, in a city, in a house on a block where everyone is walking a dog, there lives a girl named Madlenka who wants a dog very much...&quot;  Unfortunately her parents say NO!  So Madlenka uses her very vivid imagination, and takes her invisible dog, complete with collar and leash, on a walk around the block.  They greeting old and familiar friends who happily play along as they remember the special dogs of their past.....  Award winning illustrator, Peter Sis is back, and his latest picture book, Madlenka's Dog, is just as charming and engaging as last year's Madlenka.  Mr Sis keeps the text to a minimum, and let's his elegant and entertaining, detailed artwork tell the story.  Children will enjoy poring over the pages, lifting flaps and peeking through die-cut holes.  Little imaginations will soar as they travel around the block and to the far corners of the world on a magical journey with Madlenka and her neighbors.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Madlenka's Dog is Peter Sis at his best, and a captivating adventure kids will want to take again and again.	2002-05-13
1549554:US	52793250	R1WMWMXC41ZZU9	1891231820	472681047	Our Pledge of Allegiance	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Interesting, Informative, and Fun.....	Every morning children begin their school day with the Pledge of Allegiance.  They stand, face the flag, put their right hands over their hearts, and recite those now familiar words together.  But who wrote those famous words and why?  When were they written, and what do they mean?  Syl Sobel answers these, and other important questions in his well researched, interesting and informative book, Our Pledge Of Allegiance.  His entertaining text is written in an engaging, easy to read, conversational style, and is chock full of history, intriguing fun facts, and trivia.  Simple, charming illustrations by Mr Sobel's daughters bring a child's perspective to the text, and adds to the fun.  Perfect for youngsters 7 and older, Our Pledge Of Allegiance makes a wonderful addition to elementary classroom libraries.  This is non-fiction at its very best, and is a little treasure that shouldn't be missed.	2002-05-09
1551203:US	52793250	R37G8T5VH6S5I2	0670035459	412875101	House in the Mail	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A House of Their Own.....	&quot;Hello, whoever you are out there in the world of the future!  I wonder how many years will pass before someone reads this.  I'm only twelve years old now, but I might be a very old lady by the time you read these pages.&quot;  Narrated by Emily Cartwright of Enfield, Kentucky, and presented as a family scrapbook, Tom and Rosemary Wells describe how one family picked out and built a mail order house from Sears, Roebuck &amp; Company.  The house will arrive by freight train, ready to be assembled, and there will be six rooms, modern appliances like a gas stove, electric ice-box, and washing machine, and best of all indoor plumbing...no more chopping wood, emptying drip pans, and hauling and heating water from the well.  The Wells' easy to read and engaging text takes the reader on an exciting  adventure as the house comes to life on the page, and is full of charming period details, interesting facts and trivia, and intriguing anecdotes about the early 1900s.  Dan Andreasen's beautiful and evocative artwork combines drawings, blueprints, old photographs, advertisements, and mementos, that give the &quot;scrapbook&quot; an old and genuine feeling, and children will enjoy poring over the pictures and  exploring all the special details in each illustration.  Perfect for youngsters 6-10, or as a read- aloud story the entire family can share together, The House In The Mail is a captivating and entertaining slice of Americana that should open the door to interesting discussions, and a wonderful experience that shouldn't be missed.	2002-05-08
1551543:US	52793250	R26YD5F7UNO20M	0152025103	315175084	Beverly Billingsly Borrows a Book	Books	5	11	11	N	N	For Young Bibliophiles Everywhere...	Beverly Billingsly loved books, and she loved the library. On this special day, she finally got her very own library card. She searched the shelves until she found just the book she wanted, a big shiny dinosaur book full of pictures and information. &quot;She couldn't put it down. On Wednesday, after school, she studied the iguanodon. On Thursday and Friday, she read about the ankylosaurus...&quot; Beverly read everywhere, at the table while eating, in bed before sleeping, and even in the bathtub. &quot;On Monday morning, Beverly woke up early to finish the final chapter, &quot;Eating Habits of the Triceratops.&quot; As she turned the last page, she saw, stamped inside the back cover: RETURN BY APRIL 7.&quot; It was April 8th..... Alexander Stadler has written a delightful and humorous, true to life story with a reassuring, satisfying ending that is sure to put a smile on every little library-lovers face. His gentle and entertaining text really captures the essence of a preschooler as Beverly works herself up into a panic over the consequences of an overdue book, and his charming, bold and bright artwork adds to the fun. Perfect for preschoolers, Beverly Billingsly Borrows A Book is Mr Stadler's debut picture book, and hopefully the start of a new and marvelous series.	2002-05-08
1553699:US	52793250	R2MT0Q1PDFC3XV	0618055444	380749398	The Red Wolf	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Freedom!	&quot;There was once a little princess called Roselupin, who was kept locked up at the top of a tall, stony tower.  &quot;The world is a wild and dangerous place, Roselupin,&quot; her father, the king, would tell her.  &quot;Far too wild for my precious princess.&quot;  Poor Roselupin longed to leave her tower and visit the world.  On her seventh birthday, she receives a large golden box with her name on it spelled out in jewels.  Inside the box are balls and balls of different colored yarns, and a note that directs her to &quot;KNIT WHAT YOU WANT.&quot;  The king laughs at such a silly gift, and tells Roselupin to knit him a nice scarf, but she has other plans.  All night long she knits away, and by morning has finished a bright red wool, wolf suit.  She puts on the costume and says...&quot;If the world's to wild for the likes of me,/Then a BIG RED WOLF I'd rather be.&quot;  And with that, she begins to grow and grow &quot;until she burst right through the roof of the tall, stony tower and, with one giant leap, was out in the forest.&quot;  She ate, she danced, she howled, and best of all slept under the stars, free at last.  But as Roselupin ran through the deep, dark, woods, her wolf suit caught on branches, and she began to slowly unravel.....  Margaret Shannon has authored a marvelous modern fairy tale with a gentle message that won't be lost on young children.  Her engaging text begs to be read aloud, and is complemented by bold, bright, and evocative illustrations, and youngsters will enjoy poring over the pictures and finding all the wonderful details in Ms Shannon's expressive artwork.  With an amusing, surprise twist at the end, The Red Wolf is a very satisfying story the whole family can share and discuss together, and makes a terrific addition to all home bookshelves.	2002-05-06
1554265:US	52793250	RFOIL5SHZI064	0786803924	1909615	Pirates	Books	5	2	2	N	N	It Was A Dark and Stormy Night.....	It's a quiet, dark, and rainy night and Ellery takes her little brother, Max, their sleeping bags, a flashlight, and the pirate book downstairs to the den to read.  This is the tale of wicked and vicious Jose Gaspar.  &quot;He loots ships that hold treasure and murders anyone who tries to hold on to their gold.&quot;  Gaspar picks his teeth with the bones of his shipmates, and wears the bloody shirt of a murdered ship captain tied around his head.  He doesn't bury his booty in treasure chests, but in coffins, and sometimes the gem incrusted rings are still attached to fingers!  &quot;They bury treasure in the soft sand, scratch out maps with their jagged fingernails, and mark X on the spot where they'll dig again.&quot;  The night grows darker, and the wind blows harder.  The thunder crashes, lightning flashes in the sky, and the rain pours down.  And that's when Ellery and Max hear the thump, thup-thump of a wooden leg, the scratch, scrat-scratch of long filthy nails, and the sour smell of salty breath.....  C. Drew Lamm has written a marvelously spooky pirate tale for kids looking for a bedtime ghost-story scare.  His well paced, engaging text is full of foreboding, tension, and suspense, and begs to be whispered aloud in dramatic fashion.  But it's Stacy Schuett's large, detailed, dark, and ominous illustrations, that really make this story come alive.  With its humorous twist at the end to take the pressure off, Pirates is perfect for young swashbucklers 7 and older, though younger children may want to heed Mr Drew's warning...&quot;Do not read this book right before bed or during wild storms.&quot;	2002-05-06
1554462:US	52793250	R25B93SHYF1U0H	0375813640	931466746	Countdown to Spring! An Animal Counting Book	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Spring is Here.....	&quot;It's spring!  Do you think the children who live here will remember their animal friends on this special day?&quot;  Turn the page and let's find out.  Beginning with ten bright red and black lady bugs, crawling among the beautiful purple and yellow crocuses, little ones are asked, &quot;Can you count them?&quot;  Then nine butterflies flutter across the double page spread,  eight bright yellow, singing birds, seven peeping chicks, six quacking ducks, and on and on until you reach &quot;1 Easter Basket filled with treats for all the animals.&quot;  Janet Schulman and Meilo So have authored a simple, gentle little treasure of a counting book, that will charm preschoolers as young as two, with its engaging springtime animals and bright, colorful, watercolor artwork.  Perfect for lap cuddling, Countdown To Spring is a sweet, fresh, vibrant and fun way to introduce both counting and the warmer season coming our way.	2002-05-06
1559131:US	52793250	R23V2VTQ3E488Q	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	1	13	18	N	N	The Nanny Diaries	Twenty-one year old NYU college senior, Nanny, (yes that's really her first name) majoring in Early Childhood Development, seeks part time employment, twelve hours a week, as a nanny.  She gets a job with the Park Avenue, X family, to take care of their intelligent, playful, high-spirited, attention starved four year old boy, Grayer.  His extremely inconsiderate, vacuous, self absorbed, and self important mother is totally uninterested in raising her son.  He's just a trophy.  The philandering, always too busy with mergers and acquisitions, Mr X, is for all intents and purposes a non-existent family member.  Nanny becomes devoted to little Grayer, and for nine months puts up with all the rudeness, slights, condescension, and ever-growing work hours, until the final clash and climax sends her packing.....  Emma McLaughlin and Nicola Kraus have attempted to chronicle the real life and times of an industrious working girl caught between a rock, the obnoxious and too rich Upper East Side elite parents, and a hard place, the adorable, worthy of love and attention child, but they can't quite make it work.  The story line is formulaic and transparent, and gets bogged down with endless repetitive scenes.  There are no subtlties, unexpected twists, or surprises in this novel.  The writing, though breezy and easy to read, could have used more editing, and the dialogue, with its constant asides, doesn't ring true, and is rarely witty or clever.  But it's the unoriginal, one-dimensional cast of characters that is the most disappointing.  These cliched, cartoon caricatures of New Yorker's are underdeveloped, have no depth, and less motivation.  With it's weak and predictable, anti-climactic ending, The Nanny Diaries goes out with barely a wimper, instead of a bang.  There's just nothing new or inventive here.  Save your money.  There are too many really good books out there to read, and this isn't one of them.	2002-05-01
1560754:US	52793250	R3B7SNTBD2DQ6M	0312268971	643724304	North of Nowhere: An Alex McKnight Novel (Alex McKnight Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Alex McKnight is Back, and Better than Ever.....	Ah, summer in Paradise...that's Paradise, Michigan, on the upper peninsula.  This is the very best time of the year on Lake Superior, yet a suddenly introspective Alex McKnight is holed up in his cabin reading detective novels and taking a good look at his life.  As his 49th birthday approaches, he takes stock of all his failures...his marriage, an unimpressive baseball career that never went past the minors, a stint with the Detroit police department that ended abruptly with a bullet that's still lodged in his chest and a dead partner, and his very short attempt at private detecting.  Not a lot here to be proud of;  not a lot of reasons to get up in the morning and join the human race.  But an unexpected invitation to a poker game from friend Jackie Connery, proprietor of his favorite watering hole, the Glasgow Inn, changes all that.  What starts out as a simple high stakes card game in an expensive home on the lake, turns ugly when three masked men break in, hold the players at gunpoint, and rob the owner's hidden safe.  This night sets off a chain reaction of murder, greed, kidnapping, secrets, lies, and revenge, and as Alex is pushed out of his funk and back into action, he finds the true meaning of loyalty and friendship.....  Steve Hamilton is back with the fourth installment of his marvelous Alex McKnight novels, and this is a series that just gets better with each new book.  His well paced, intricate story line is entertaining and intriguing, and filled with subtle twists, and vivid, riveting scenes.  His terrific cast of well defined, original characters come alive on the page, and inhabit a spectacular north woods setting full of atmosphere.  But it's Mr Hamilton's crisp, intelligent writing that really makes this novel sparkle, and his witty and irreverent dialogue is unrivaled and stands alone in a class by itself.  If you're new to Alex McKnight and Paradise, start at the beginning with A Cold Day In Paradise, and read them all.  If you're already a fan, North Of Nowhere is another suspenseful and compelling mystery, you don't want to miss.	2002-04-30
1561904:US	52793250	R1IO069TO6K7LI	0374399603	607993799	Some from the Moon, Some from the Sun: Poems and Songs for Everyone	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Wonderful Margot Zemach.....	As Margot Zemach tells us in her creative autobiography spread at the end of this marvelous collection, full of photos and drawings from her too short life, &quot;Children deserve detail, color, and excellence...the best an author and illustrator can do.  The pictures have to be made &quot;real.&quot;  The food should be food you'd really want to eat and the bed should look so cozy that you'd want to climb in right away.&quot;  This collection of 26 simple, engaging poems, some familiar...Bingo, This Little Pig Went To Market, Sleep Baby Sleep, Star Light, Star Bright... and some new, are brought to life on the page by Ms Zemach's charming and inviting illustrations.  Her signature pen and watercolor artwork sparkles, is rich in expressive detail, and complements each verse with color, humor, emotion, and fun.  These are unique and intriguing paintings to savor and explore each time the book is opened.  Perfect for cuddling preschoolers on laps on a quiet afternoon, or lulling little ones to sleep at bedtime, Some From The Moon Some From The Sun introduces Margot Zemach to a whole new audience, and is a gentle, cozy little treasure to be shared with friends and family now, and with future generations in the years to come.	2002-04-29
1563476:US	52793250	RB57WK622DCKG	0374382921	431218479	What Charlie Heard	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Listen...Music is Everywhere.....	&quot;Charles Ives was born with his ears wide open.  The very first sound he heard might have been his father's trumpet announcing his birth to the town of Danbury, Connecticut.&quot;  During his life, no matter where he was or what he was doing, Charlie heard the wonder of music in the everyday sounds around him.  It could be the rustle of his mother's dress, the tick of a clock, the hooves of horses clip-clopping down the street, or the ice cream man's bell.  Charlie heard music in a bat hitting a baseball, the rumble of thunder, the applause and cheers of a crowd, and a train's bell and whistle.  As he got older, Charlie wrote &quot;music about things he'd heard or seen, or feelings he had.  But sometimes it was just to hear how different notes would sound together.&quot;  Charlie grew up, graduated from college, got married, and started a successful insurance company.  But he never stopped writing his music.  &quot;It was a new kind of music.  It didn't have to be pretty, it had to be true to his feelings...  But most people didn't know how to listen to it.  Some thought it was a joke.  Others just heard noise and got angry.&quot;  Finally, when Charles Ives was very old, musicians began to play and perform his music, and people began to hear what Charlie heard.  &quot;Maybe, if you open your ears like Charlie, you can hear the beautiful, funny, sad, joyous, amazing music he heard...&quot;  Mordecai Gerstein has written a spectacular introductory biography that really captures the essence of Charles Ives and his music.  His simple, straightforward text is both engaging and informative.  But it's Mr Gerstein's creative and inventive artwork that really makes this book stand out and sparkle.  His busy and detailed illustrations are packed with sound effects, swirling around the pages, in all shapes, sizes, and colors.  The visual becomes the audible, and readers will begin to &quot;hear&quot; the magic of music in the world around them, just like Charlie.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, What Charlie Heard is a marvelous, evocative story about an extraordinary composer, the entire family can savor, share, and enjoy together.  And once you've finished reading, it's time to listen to some of Charles Ives' music, so that you can hear what Charlie heard.	2002-04-28
1565363:US	52793250	R8VIGH010QLCF	0688167993	501088970	We're Going on a Picnic!	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Picnic Fun for Everyone.....	Duck, Hen, and Goose are going on a picnic.  &quot;It's such a lovely day!&quot;  They fill their basket with their three favorite foods...berries for Hen, apples for Goose, and pears for Duck, and off they go.  &quot;Were going on a picnic!&quot; they sang as they walked across the field.&quot;  Now to find the perfect spot.  This task seems to be harder than you'd think.  None of the three can agree on the perfect place, and pretty soon three other forest friends, a mouse, a squirrel, and a rabbit are quietly following along.  Each time our trio of friends sets the basket down, thinking they've found the perfect picnic spot, Mouse, Squirrel, or Rabbit jumps in, and eats some of their food. Finally, Hen, Duck, and Goose arrive back at their home.  They haven't found a picnic spot, and for some &quot;unknown&quot; reason, their basket is very empty.  Everything must have fallen out.  What to do?  Let's fill up the basket and &quot;Off we go again...&quot;  Pat Hutchins has written a charming and amusing little treasure your kids will want to read again and again.  Her spare, cheerful text is simple and repetitive, and begs to be read aloud.  But it's her bright, colorful, and expressive illustrations that really steal the show.  Youngsters will get a big kick out of watching the story unfold and being in on the secret, while their barnyard friends go on their merry way without a clue.  Perfect for preschoolers, We're Going On A Picnic is a delight, and a wonderful addition to all home bookshelves.	2002-04-26
1566343:US	52793250	R1SI647IYDN4Q2	0345449622	66515407	Final Round	Books	1	13	15	N	N	Berhardt Hits a Bogey.....	John McCree and Connor Cross were childhood friends from rural Oklahoma when they discovered the game of golf.  Now both are pros on the PGA tour.  John has smoothed out all the rough edges, married well, and made a name for himself.  Connor's made a name for himself too.  He's proud to be the wise-cracking, irreverent, rule-breaking, bad boy of golf. Now both have been invited to play in the Masters Tournament at Augusta National Golf Club, that bastion of tradition and prestige.  All the stars of golf, past and present, are here, and the famous and coveted green jackets can be seen everywhere you turn this week.  Unfortunately the splendor of this annual event is spoiled when Connor finds his best friend dead and buried in a sand trap off the eighteenth green.  Who could have wanted John dead?  He was a class act, popular among fans, and a friend to all on the tour.  Or was he...  John's wife begs Connor to stay in the tournament for John's sake, go undercover and investigate.  And when the murder weapon turns out to be his nine iron, and he becomes the prime suspect, Connor decides he'd better do just that before he ends up losing more than just another golf match.....  William Bernhardt, a master of the legal thriller and courtroom drama, shows, in Final Round, why authors should stick with what they know, and not be lured into an arena in which they are totally unfamiliar.  It is obvious from page one that William Bernhardt has never played the game of golf, or even watched a golf tournament, and this poorly researched mystery is so full of inaccuracies, that it lacks all credibility.  Mr Bernhardt's story line is completely transparent, and filled with repetitive, predictable scenes.  His writing is immature, and his dialogue, inane.  This is supposed to be a mystery, yet there's no suspense, tension, or intrigue.  But worst of all, his characters are all one-dimensional, cartoon cliches...the bad boy turned good, the always drunken pro with the big mouth, theyoung and rising star everyone resents, the snobby and officious tournament director...  It all adds up to a truly awful book that should never have gotten past an editor.  Do yourself a big favor, and stay away from Final Round.  This is definitely a book to miss.	2002-04-25
1567319:US	52793250	R1SL9HK6BDWLP2	0060292679	111132641	Summersaults	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Very Best Time of the Year.....	Summer, the very best season of the year, is captured in Douglas Florian's marvelous new poetry collection, Summersaults.  These 28 poems evoke the sheer joy of sizzling, shimmering, simmering, hazy, hot summer days, and the carefree fun of baseball, swimming, buzzing bees, and annoying flies, ocean waves, ice-cream cones, scooters, bikes and roller skates, fireflies, jumping rope, thunderstorms, and campfires.  Mr Florian's delightful, engaging, rhyming verses are full of imagery, wordplay, energy and puns, and complemented by his cheerful childlike artwork in summer tones of bright greens, yellows, and blues.  Together word and art deliver the magic of summer in all its simple splendor.  Perfect for children of all ages, Summersaults is a charming little treasure, best read aloud and shared, that can take the coldest, snowiest day of the year, and turn it into a blazing, sun-filled day at the beach.	2002-04-24
1567810:US	52793250	R2KWZQ0QDD0VMS	0439050235	811097561	Duck on a Bike	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A Ducky Good Time.....	&quot;One day down on the farm, Duck got a wild idea.  &quot;I bet I could ride a bike!&quot; he thought.  He waddled over to where the boy parked his bike, climbed on, and began to ride...&quot;  So begins David Shannon's creative and silly picture book, Duck On A Bike.  In no time Duck's mastered the art of pedaling, and is zooming around the barnyard waving and calling to his friends.  The cow thinks it's silly, and the sheep is sure Duck will hurt himself. The dog thinks it's neat, and the pigs think Duck is a big show-off.  Mr Goat isn't so interested in riding, but would like to eat the bike, the horse just wants to remind Duck that he's still faster, and the cat is so self-involved, he doesn't even look up as Duck rides by.  And that's when it happens...a whole gang of kids come riding onto the farm, park their bikes, and go inside.  And in just a matter of seconds, Duck discovers he isn't the only animal riding around and around the barnyard.....  Mr Shannon's engaging text begs to be read aloud, and is full of animal sounds and clever asides.  But it's his bold, bright, and busy illustrations that really make this book sparkle.  Each two page spread is filled with endearing oversized animals, marvelous facial expressions, and hilarious details.  Perfect for kids 3-7, Duck On A Bike is a joyous, manic romp that little animal lovers and bike enthusiasts shouldn't miss.	2002-04-24
1568503:US	52793250	R2AKVX9FGFTILR	0805066853	992737859	Here Comes the Year	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Year in All Its Natural Glory.....	Eileen Spinelli and Keiko Narahashi have authored a year of nature in all its wonder.  From the cold winter days of &quot;...January dark, and dappled deep, teasing you, easing you, out of your cuddle-down sleep...&quot;  to the wet spring &quot;...April rain, a silvery spray, puddling streets and sidewalks, splashing away...&quot; to the cool autumn nights &quot;...October moon, plump as you please, teetering on rooftops, leaping the trees...&quot; and the white world of &quot;...December snow hugging the hills, roller-coastering merry sleds, pillowing spills...&quot; this dynamic duo takes the reader on a month by month adventure, as the year quickly passes by.  Ms Spinelli's gentle, rhyming prose is engaging and entertaining, and begs to be read aloud.  Each verse is enhanced by Ms Narahashi's expressive and thrilling watercolor illustrations.  Together word and art captures a unique characteristic about each month, and brings it to life on the page.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Her Comes The Year is a creative and evocative experience the whole family can share, and makes a wonderful addition to all home bookshelves.	2002-04-24
1569495:US	52793250	R123NAQRI6L02F	0316154059	817062475	City of Bones	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Tight, Tense, and Compelling.....	It was a dog that found the first bone in the Hollywood Hills, and brought it home.  His owner, a retired doctor, identified it immediately as a human arm bone, probably from a ten or twelve year old child, and called the police.  After finding about sixty percent of the remaining skeleton in a shallow grave, forensic experts figured the boy had died about twenty years ago from a blow to the back of the head.  But it was his short life that tormented Los Angeles Homicide Detective, Harry Bosch.  The bones showed that this kid had been horribly abused almost since he was born and had lived his life in constant agony and suffering.  It was January 1, the first day of the new year, and Harry had caught a cold case, the kind of crime that gave him nightmares, and stayed with him forever.  And as Harry digs deeper and deeper into the tragic events that led to this boy's death, and the bones on the hill, he sets off another unexpected chain reaction of misery and death that pushes him to his limits and a shocking conclusion.....  Michael Connelly has written a dark, compelling, and unforgettable thriller, full of intriguing twists and turns, and intense riveting scenes.  His writing is vivid, crisp, and intelligent, with a real ear for dialogue, and his intricate story line is tight and suspenseful.  But it's Mr Connelly's brilliant characterizations that make City Of Bones and all his novels stand out.  These are real people, full of complexities and nuances, sometimes heroic and well-meaning, often flawed and chasing their own internal demons, and  Michael Connelly breathes life into even the most minor character.  City Of Bones is the eighth book in a marvelous series that just gets better with each new installment.  To understand the troubled and introspective Harry Bosch, start at the beginning with The Black Echo, and read them all.  For those of you who are already fans, Michael Connelly's latest is a &quot;must read&quot; and shouldn't be missed.	2002-04-23
1571450:US	52793250	R1IBMWXZ5LF9N	0500277397	112077847	Dance Me a Story: Twelve Tales from the Classic Ballets	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The Wonder of Ballet.....	The ballet...thrilling stories set to music and told through the beauty of dance.  Jane Rosenberg brings her love of the ballet, and both her writing and illustrating talents to Dance Me A Story, a marvelous collection, presented as a fascinating introduction for young and old alike.  Listen to the intriguing and magical stories of Cinderella, Coppelia, Don Quixote, La Fille Mal Gardee, Firebird, Giselle, The Nutcracker, Petrouchka, Romeo and Juliet, The Sleeping Beauty, Swan Lake, and La Sylphide.  Each narrative is written in an engaging and easy to read style.  The scenes are set, the action well described, and the stories easily understood.  Ms Rosenberg's exquisite and detailed artwork brings the drama and grace of each dance to life on the page, and together word and art capture the imagination and send it soaring.  Perfect for youngsters 10 and older, or as a read aloud for younger children, Dance Me A Story opens the door to the enchanting world of the ballet, that is sure to whet the appetite and send you on your way to the grandeur of a live performance.  The orchestra tunes, the audience is seated, a hush falls over the house as the conductor raises his baton, the curtain opens, and the performance begins in all its splendor...	2002-04-21
1571501:US	52793250	R3HLMISWENBGOD	0823416836	766166565	The Princess and the Pizza	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Who Wants to be a Princess Anyway.....	Poor Princess Paulina.  Her father, the king, gave up his throne to become a wood-carver, and she's really missing all the perks of princessing.  So when she hears that Queen Zelda, of Blom, is searching for a wife for her son, Prince Drubert, she dusts off her tiara and heads for the castle.  Paulina has no trouble passing the pea and mattress test...&quot;That's so once-upon-a-time&quot;, or the essay on &quot;Why I Want to Have the Gracious and Exquisitely Beautiful Queen Zelda for My Mother-in-Law, or even the glass slipper test...&quot;For Pete's sake, you never heard of sneakers?&quot;  But the final task, cooking a feast worthy of a prince, is a bit more daunting.  Especially when the other two finalists, a young lady with an impossibly long braid that drags across the floor and a girl followed around by seven funny looking little men, grab all the ingredients.  Paulina is left with only flour, yeast, water, tomatoes and a block of stale cheese.....  Mary Jane and Herm Auch have authored a wry and hilarious fractured fairy tale, starring a sassy and confident heroine, that's full of familiar characters and clever scenes kids will recognize from stories of the past.  Her witty text is entertaining and engaging, and begs to be read aloud.  Mr Auch's bold, bright and expressive artwork complements the story beautifully, and is full of wonderfully eye-catching detail.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Princess And The Pizza is a modern fairy tale, complete with a surprise ending with a twist, that's sure to leave readers satisfied, and with a big smile on their faces.	2002-04-21
1571529:US	52793250	R3KYPEEGEDR3NQ	1587171341	720423813	Good Night, Fairies	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Bedtime on Fairies' Wings.....	There is nothing so wonderful as the magical, whimsical world of fairies.  Join mother and child at bedtime, as she lulls her little one to sleep with enchanting details about these tiny winged creatures who help make the world a special place to live.  Fairies hang the stars in the sky at night, so that every child will have a night-light, paint the colorful wings of butterflies, teach birds to sing, and unicorns to fly.  They comb mermaids' hair, draw rainbows to cheer up the dark rainy sky, make the spring flowers bloom, and scatter the autumn leaves.  But most of all, fairies love little children. &quot;Of all the world's creatures, there is nothing so like a fairy as a child.....&quot;  Husband and wife team, Kathleen and Michael Hague, have authored the perfect bedtime story.  Everything about this picture book is elegant, engaging, and exquistite, from the beautiful script font, and quiet, soothing prose, to the marvelously intricate, lush, and expressive illustrations.  Together word and art offer a gentle, sweet, and lovely trip to dreamland.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, with 321 little winged friends to discover and count, and a special red-capped fairy hidden on every page to find, Good Night, Fairies is a masterpiece, and a reassuring bedtime treasure to share and enjoy every night of the year.	2002-04-21
1571642:US	52793250	R1CYV2XQDR890	0316713171	317758509	When the Moon is Full: A Lunar Year	Books	5	9	9	N	N	For Moon Lovers Everywhere.....	&quot;Full moons come,/full moons go,/softening nights/with their silver glow./They pass in silence,/all untamed,/but as they travel,/they are named.&quot;  Native Americans named each full moon after a special characteristic that the month brought.  For instance, January was the Wolf Moon, because they believed wolves became restless in January, May was the Flower Moon, because that is when many flowers bloom, and October was the Hunter's Moon, because the moon rises early adding to the light of the setting sun and giving hunters extra time to hunt.  Penny Pollack and Mary Azarian have authored a beautiful yearful of poetry, detailing the wonders and glories of the moon.  Ms Pollacks gentle, quiet, original verses are eloquent and lyrical, and include the name of the month, the unique Native American moon name, and a simple explanation of the moon name.  Ms Azarian's hand-painted woodcut illustrations of gorgeous nature scenes bathed in moonlight are evocative and offer a feast for the eyes.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, When The Moon Is Full includes an informative and entertaining two page spread of questions and answers about the moon, and is a lovely bedtime book the entire family can share and enjoy together.	2002-04-21
1572188:US	52793250	R31VND1F84GTEO	0500277397	112077847	Dance Me a Story: Twelve Tales from the Classic Ballets	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Wonder of Ballet.....	The ballet...thrilling stories set to music and told through the beauty of dance.  Jane Rosenberg brings her love of the ballet, and both her writing and illustrating talents to Dance Me A Story, a marvelous collection, presented as a fascinating introduction for young and old alike.  Listen to the intriguing and magical stories of Cinderella, Coppelia, Don Quixote, La Fille Mal Gardee, Firebird, Giselle, The Nutcracker, Petrouchka, Romeo and Juliet, The Sleeping Beauty, Swan Lake, and La Sylphide.  Each narrative is written in an engaging and easy to read style.  The scenes are set, the action well described, and the stories easily understood.  Ms Rosenberg's exquisite and detailed artwork brings the drama and grace of each dance to life on the page, and together word and art capture the imagination and send it soaring.  Perfect for youngsters 10 and older, or as a read aloud for younger children, Dance Me A Story opens the door to the enchanting world of the ballet, that is sure to whet the appetite and send you on your way to the grandeur of a live performance.  The orchestra tunes, the audience is seated, a hush falls over the house as the conductor raises his baton, the curtain opens, and the performance begins in all its splendor...	2002-04-21
1576215:US	52793250	R1NBBWPFVIWTG	0066238226	993276552	Laura Numeroff's 10-Step Guide to Living with Your Monster	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Monster Fun.....	Laura Numeroff and Nate Evans have authored the quintessential resource guide for monster acquisition and care.  Find out how to choose the very best monster, and how to pick the right name.  &quot;You don't want to call him Hercules when you sister calls him Fluffy.&quot;  Learn what to feed him, where to take him, how to handle a visit to the vet, and how to train him...&quot;This may take some time.&quot;  Get grooming tips, bedtime strategies, and hints for monster games and entertainment.  And always remember, be good to your monster and he'll be good to you.....  Ms Numeroff's silly, clever text is full of energy, humor and fun, and complemented by Mr Evans' engaging bold, bright, and busy illustrations.  Together this dynamic duo have come up with a list of dos and don'ts, no monster lover can live without.  Perfect for preschoolers, Laura Numeroff's 10-Step Guide To Living With Your Monster is a joyous, manic romp little ones will beg to read again and again.	2002-04-17
1576764:US	52793250	R3AHR0XX84NRP2	0385336187	700164567	Warning Signs	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Tight, Tense, and Intelligent.....	The brutal murder of legendary Boulder County District Attorney, Royal Peterson, while his invalid wife slept in her room upstairs, was shocking and horrifying.  But when the prime suspect turns out to be one of their own, homicide detective, Lucy Tanner, it becomes crystal clear that nothing in Stephen White's latest thriller, Warning Signs, is exactly what it seems.  Psychologist, Alan Gregory, soon finds himself smack in the middle of the case, brought in by his close friend and Lucy's partner, Detective Sam Purdy.  Sam can't believe that Lucy committed the crime, even though the evidence against her seems to be growing exponentially with each passing day, and he wants Alan's insight to help him prove it.  Alan knows all the players well.  In fact, his wife is a prosecutor in the District Attorney's office, and worked for Royal.  Enter new patient, Naomi Bigg.  She's come to Dr Gregory seeking help with her son, cagily talking about bombs, Columbine, vengence, and parental responsibilities.  When a bomb is found in Royal Peterson's house, and it becomes apparent that Naomi Bigg and the Peterson crime may be connected, Gregory has to wrestle with the ultimate psychologist's dilema.  Which is more important, his ethical duty to his patient, or his moral obligations to the community.....  Warning Signs is a tight, suspenseful, very compelling psychological thriller that grabs you from page one, sets you on the edge of your seat, and never lets go.  Mr White weaves a seamless, intricate, well paced plot full of twists, turns, riveting scenes, and more than a few surprises.  His writing is crisp and tense, and his intriguing characters, well drawn, with strong voices.  This is an intelligent thriller that will keep you thinking, long after you've finished the book.  Author, Stephen White has really honed his craft, and Warning Signs is the latest installment in a superb series that just gets better with each book.  So turn off the phone and lock the door...Alan Gregory and company are about to keep you up all night.	2002-04-17
1578514:US	52793250	RGEYNLZ0LBQ0X	0385306970	172621619	Emily	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Glimpse of Emily.....	&quot;There is a woman on our street they call the Myth.  She lives with her sister in the yellow house across the road.  Her room is the one up on the left at the front.  If you stand on tiptoe, you can see it peeping over the high hedge as you pass.  She hasn't left her house in nearly twenty years.  If strangers come to call, she runs and hides herself away.  Some people say she's crazy.  But to me she's Emily...&quot;  When our young narrator's mother is invited to cross the street and play the piano for the elusive Emily, the little girl can't wait to accompany her.  Emily is nowhere to be seen, but Mother sits and nervously begins to play.  &quot;When Mother stopped she turned to me.  A sound of clapping rippled down the stairs, and then a small voice like a little girl's.  &quot;Dear friend, you put the robin's song to shame.  Play more.  Already I can feel the spring.&quot;  As her mother continues, the little girl creeps up the winding stairs to investigate, and at the bend at the top, finds a small woman dressed in white, sitting and listening to the beautiful music from below.  From her pocket, our narrator takes out two lily bulbs.  &quot;I brought you some spring...If you plant them they will turn to lilies.&quot;  Quickly Emily dashed off some words on a scrap of paper and handed it to her guest.  &quot;Hide this away, as I will hide your gift to me.  Perhaps in time they both will bloom.&quot;  And so as spring arrived, so did the lilies, and a young girl's special poem from Emily Dickinson.....  Michael Bedard has captured the quiet and intriguing reclusive nature of Emily Dickinson in his well researched historical story.  &quot;In writing this book, I went to Amherst to visit the house where she lived.  I sat in the parlor with the piano, visited the room where she wrote.  I stood beneath her window and she lowered this story to me.&quot;  His simple, eloquent, and engaging text transports the reader back in time to nineteenth century Amherst, Massachusetts, to spend an afternoon with Emily Dickinson.  You can almost hear the piano drifting up the stairs, and the scratches of her pen as Emily dashes off a poem.  Barbara Cooney's beautifully evocative oil paintings are rich in period detail, and complement the text with their quiet settings.  With an Afterword to complete and enhance the story, Emily is truly a masterpiece of word and art, and a fascinating story that shouldn't be missed.	2002-04-15
1579416:US	52793250	R36VQHKOB1PWSA	0374350833	837189304	The Mouse of Amherst	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Mouse and &quot;the Myth&quot;.....	&quot;I am a mouse, a white mouse.  My name is Emmaline.  Before I met Emily, the great poet of Amherst, I was nothing more than a crumb gatherer, a cheese nibbler, a mouse-of-little-purpose.  There was an emptiness in my life that nothing seemed to fill.  All that changed the day I moved into the Dickinson residence on Main Street...&quot;  Emmaline moves into the simple, quiet, sunny upstairs bedroom, and begins her new life in the wainscoting of Emily's room.  She observes the Dickinson family, and is most fascinated by her new roommate, Emily.  &quot;She always wore white.  She seemed to be everywhere and nowhere at once, fluttering through the house like a ghost, stirring up a batch of gingerbread in the kitchen, or walking in the garden, lost in reverie...&quot;  Emily is always sitting at her little desk in deep concentration, writing and scribbling on small scraps of paper, and this intrigues the little mouse.  When a small scrap finally lands on the floor near Emmaline's door, she snatches it up and begins reading.  &quot;Imagine my surprise when I realized I was holding a poem!  The words spoke to me.  These were my feelings exactly, but ones I had always kept hidden for fear the world would think me a sentimental fool...&quot;  Emmaline turns the paper over and words begin to pour out of her;  a poem of her own.  Then she returns the scrap with her new poem on the back to Emily's desk.  That night while Emmaline slept, Emily read her poem and wrote back, slipping the note paper under her little mouse door.  &quot;I'm Nobody! Who are you?/Are you-Nobody-too/Then there's a pair of us!/Don't tell! they'd banish us-you know!...&quot;  And that, as they say, was the beginning of a beautiful friendship.....  Elizabeth Spires has written an engaging, gentle, and evocative introduction to the great poet, Emily Dickinson.  Her charming and creative story, told often in poems passed back and forth between mouse and Myth, is sometimes poignant, often humorous, and always enlightening.  Claire Nivola's black and white sketches complement the text beautifully, and together word and art paint a lovely portrait of the elusive and reclusive Dickinson and her genius, with great insight.  Perfect for youngsters 9-12, The Mouse Of Amherst makes an even better read aloud book the entire family can share, and includes an Author's note about Emily Dickinson's life and her poetry to augment and enhance the story and open interesting discussions.  This sweet little treasure is sure to whet the appetite of both young and old, and send kids out looking for more.  It works well as a companion book to Jeanette Winter's Emily Dickinson's Letters To The World, and Michael Bedard's Emily.	2002-04-15
1579721:US	52793250	RXQQPLQES3JZF	0590203207	455202101	Frida (English Language Edition)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The Amazing Life of Frida Kahlo.....	&quot;Magdalena Carmen Frida Kahlo was born in Mexico in 1907.  This is the story of how she learned to paint, how painting saved her life, and why her paintings are like no one else's.  Like Frida's art, it is a work of the imagination, but it is also true.&quot;  So begins Jonah Winter's introductory, picture book biography.  His simple, spare, poetic text brings this remarkable artist to life, and illuminates her lonely childhood, the polio that kept her bedridden for almost a year, and the almost fatal bus accident that left her crippled and in constant pain for the rest of her life.  But through it all Frida's art kept her going.  &quot;Painting is like her imaginary friend.  It is there whenever she wants it.  It keeps her company.  It keeps her from giving up hope.&quot;  Ana Juan's bold and vibrant, Mexican folk-art style illustrations, rich in brilliant color and inhabited by expressive imaginary creatures and Kahlo-like touches, complement the text beautifully.  Together word and art paint a vivid and inspiring portrait of a courageous and resilient artist with a unique style.  &quot;Her paintings are like nothing else.  In museums, people still look at them and weep and sigh and smile.  She turns her pain into something beautiful.  It is like a miracle.&quot;  Perfect for youngsters 6-10, Frida includes both Author's and Artist's notes at the end to explain and enhance the brief story.  This is a fascinating and engaging biography that is sure to peak the interest and whet the appetite of art lovers young and old.	2002-04-14
1579789:US	52793250	R1R3XW3AT340J4	0805062041	971574207	The Emperor Lays an Egg	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Nature at Its Most Fascinating.....	&quot;In late May, as an icy winter wind blows across Antarctica, a mother emperor penguin lays an egg.  Plop!  To keep the egg from freezing, she catches it on her feet and covers it with a flap of skin...&quot;  So begins Brenda Guiberson's fascinating and engaging story of life and survival in the coldest place on Earth.   Mother and Father penguin take turns eating, traveling on a harrowing journey ninety miles or more to an opening in the Arctic ice to feed.  Their mate is left behind, standing still for months to care for the egg and eventually the fluffy little chick, in the worst of winter.  Finally as the short summer begins, the baby chick leaves his parents' feet, grows black and white waterproof feathers, and learns to swim and feed on its own.  Soon the winter will come, the ocean will freeze, and the emperor penguins will return to their mating grounds to begin the process again.....  Ms Guiberson's easy to read and well researched text is chock full of detail, interesting facts, drama, and even appropriate sound effects, and is enhanced by Joan Paley's captivating artwork.  Together word and art paint a marvelous and intriguing portrait of the life cycle of the emperor penguin.  Perfect for youngsters 5 and older, The Emperor Lays An Egg is non-fiction at its very best, and a treasure of a book that definitely shouldn't be missed.	2002-04-14
1579800:US	52793250	R3SPU3NENDXIB6	0763616966	743964819	What Planet Are You From, Clarice Bean?	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Clarice Bean is Back and Better than Ever.....	Poor Clarice Bean, just a bit late to school, and now her teacher, Mrs Wilberton, has paired her with that awful Robert Granger for a project on the environment.  Boring Robert wants to see who can walk faster, a snail or a worm.  Could things get any worse?  Obviously, yes they can, as her teenage brother Kurt informs the family.  The city's going to cut down a tree right on their street.  An old hundred year old tree.  Kurt is upset and too depressed to even eat, and decides to camp out under the tree to save it.  Pretty soon, the whole extended family gets involved, making signs that say &quot;Free The Tree&quot;, and spaghetti marinara dinner to eat while sitting in the tree, and becoming ecowarriors.  When the local newpaper sends a photographer to take a picture of this ragtag protest, Clarice and Robert (of course Robert Granger got himself in the picture) find they have an even better environmental project in the works.....  Nobody captures the irrepressible and feisty grade schooler like Lauren Child, and Clarice Bean's latest eco-adventure is sure to have readers laughing out loud.  Her fast-paced, text is entertaining and engaging, true to life, and full of witty asides and observations.  But it's Ms Child's marvelously creative and innovative illustrations that make this book stand out.  Her busy and clever collage artwork, mixing colorful pen and ink drawings and photographs, with imaginative fonts of all shapes and sizes, traveling up, down, and all around, will have youngsters entranced and poring over the pages, finding something new and interesting every time they open the book.  Perfect for readers 7-10, or younger for reading aloud, What Planet Are You From, Clarice Bean? is a charming and hilarious, manic romp you don't want to miss and the third installment of a terrific and delightful series.	2002-04-14
1583164:US	52793250	R2WYKPP0PDK4OT	015200629X	802048155	Sebastian: A Book about Bach	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Music Was His Life.....	Johann Sebastian Bach was born into a family of musicians.  All the Bachs played musical instruments, and young Sebastian was no exception.  But even more than the joy of playing, Bach loved composing his own music.  &quot;Sebastian heard the music in his head.  The melodies came fast- as his pen raced over the page, he rarely changed a note.  He heard one melody for the violin, one for the trumpet, one for the flute, and one for the oboe.  Each instrument had its own voice.  And when all the voices sounded at the same time, it was like good friends talking together.&quot;  Bach married, had twenty children, and settled in Leipzig where he was the church music and choir director.  He worked all day teaching his students and playing the organ, and composed all night as &quot;new music filled Sebastian's head.&quot;  During his life, Bach wrote over one thousand compositions.  It is said that even as he took his dying breath, he was composing one last piece.....  Jeanette Winter has written an engaging and informative, introductory picture book biography that brings Bach and his times to life on the page.  Her simple, spare, yet eloquent prose is lyrical and poetic, and complemented by her evocative, vibrant, and expressive signature folk art paintings.  Together word and art give youngsters a real feeling for the intensity of Bach's great love and devotion to both playing and composing music.  Perfect for reading aloud, or for early readers 6-10, Sebastian is a fascinating and entertaining biography that will whet the appetite of budding musicians, and send them out looking for more.	2002-04-11
1583952:US	52793250	R2XLT1NJ9D7SCI	039923618X	983444865	Daisy Comes Home	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Watch Out, Daisy.....	&quot;Look over the garden wall and you will see the six happiest hens in China.  They live in Mei Mei's sandy yard by the Li River where they lay brown eggs every day for Mei Mei to sell at the market.  But it was not always this way.&quot;  So begins Jan Brett's entertaining folk tale about a tormented little hen who takes an unexpected adventure down the Li River, and finds she's braver and more resourceful than she ever knew.  Daisy was the smallest hen in the yard, and constantly bullied by her coopmates.  One rainy evening when she &quot;had had enough of pushy hens and cold, damp floors,&quot; she went down to the river bank and fell asleep in a nice cozy market basket.  As the river rose, Daisy floated out onto the water, and the current carried her away.....  Ms Brett's exciting story and engaging text is only outdone by her exquisite, lush and vivid artwork, that brings the China countryside and all its splendor to life.  This is a story told through and enhanced by the intricately detailed illustrations, and youngsters will love poring over and exploring the intriguing pictures.  As in all Jan Brett books, there are many delightful hidden features, and her signature borders that advance the plot.  Perfect for children 4-8, Daisy Comes Home is charming story with a happily-ever-after ending, that shouldn't be missed.	2002-04-11
1585019:US	52793250	R15LYQY280GK3I	0803725094	394523233	Aunt Claire's Yellow Beehive Hair	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Those Who Came Before.....	&quot;Whenever our whole family gets together for someone's birthday, or a holiday, or just for the fun of it, we share a big meal, then eat and eat desserts.  After we're so stuffed we can't eat any more, the grown-ups push back their chairs from the table and talk and talk about the people I see only in old pictures.&quot;  Annie wants to know all about her family, the ones who came before and are now gone;  the family she sees only in pictures.  &quot;I want to reach into the past and bring them closer to me.&quot;  So one rainy day, Grandma Marilyn and Great-Aunt Ray take Annie on a &quot;memorabilia&quot; hunt.  They search through the house, in closets and drawers, shoe boxes and albums, and find pieces of family history, letters, passports, pressed flowers, pictures, war medals, hair ribbon, even wedding lace.  Once it's all laid out on the big kitchen table, Grandma and Great-Aunt Ray begin their story.  &quot;Oh, Annie, that was Aunt Claire's purple hair ribbon.  She had yellow beehive hair, sharp red painted nails, and a deep, throaty voice.....&quot;  Deborah Blumenthal has written a lovely, warm, and captivating story that begs to be read aloud, and shared by the entire family.  Her eloquent text is evocative and entertaining, and beautifully complemented by Mary Grandpre's bold, vibrant, and expressive illustrations.  Together word and art paint a vivid and engaging portrait of all the intriguing and colorful characters that make each family unique and special.  Perfect for youngsters 5 and older, Aunt Claire's Yellow Beehive Hair is a wonderful way to open discussions, begin to introduce your own family's history, and most importantly, keep it alive.	2002-04-10
1587449:US	52793250	R2JWJ407LUJ7JC	0374321477	407106059	Emily Dickinson's Letters to the World	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Brief Introduction to Emily Dickinson.....	&quot;My sister Emily was buried today...&quot;  So begins Jeanette Winter's very brief biography of poet, Emily Dickinson.  Narrated by her sister, Lavinia, as she cleans out Emily's room, we learn just a few small facts about the elusive poet.  She was a recluse who lived in the smallest upstairs room of the family's house.  She loved words, studied the dictionary, and spent all her time writing on scraps of paper.  She wore only white dresses, and most townfolk thought her strange.  After her death, Lavinia finds drawers full of those scraps of paper, Emily's &quot;letters to the world,&quot; and Ms Winter fills the rest of this small volume with a selection of 21 poems, some famous...There Is No Frigate Like A Book, I'm Nobody! Who Are You?, and If I Can Stop One Heart From Breaking, and others less recognizable to complete her story.  Her vibrant illustrations, done in an engaging folk art sytle, complement the text and enhances each poem beautifully.  Though a bit light on biographical material, Emily Dickinson's Letters To The World is a simple and intriguing introduction to a remarkable poet that should open interesting discussions and whet the appetite of youngsters 7 and older, and send them out looking for more.	2002-04-08
1587911:US	52793250	R26FIBBJQXQTBI	0399237976	70372656	What a Year! (A 26 Fairmount Avenue Book)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	1940...The Year Continues.....	Tomie dePaola is back with the fourth installment of his marvelously charming and warmhearted 26 Fairmount Avenue series.  What A Year picks up right where On My Way left off, September 1940, and for young Tomie, this was the very best time of the year.  September brings the beginning of first grade and Tomie's sixth birthday, with a class party and special presents.  Then on to his first trick or treating Halloween and a favorite costume, Thanksgiving with the extended dePaola clan and a trip to the movies to see Pinocchio, Christmas, with pageants and presents, almost ruined by chicken pox, and the first New Year's Eve he stayed up past midnight to ring in the new year.  And through it all, Mr dePaola fills his engaging memoir with well remembered and entertaining details, events, and anecdotes.  Written in an easy to read, conversational style, and enhanced by delightful black and white sketches, What A Year is perfect for youngsters 7-11, and makes an even better read-aloud story the entire family can share together.  Told with great insight, wisdom, humor and love, the 26 Fairmount Avenue series just gets better with each new book.  As Tomie writes in his diary on the first day of the new year...&quot;I wonder what 1941 will be like?&quot;  We can only wait for the next installment to find out.	2002-04-08
1590230:US	52793250	R38U8KT0XPAI05	0060010126	339096071	Owen's Marshmallow Chick	Books	5	3	4	N	N	&quot;My Favorite.....&quot;	No author captures the essence of a preschooler like Kevin Henkes.  &quot;On Easter monring, Owen's basket was full.&quot;  Little blanket toting Owen jumped for joy as he first surveyed and then gobbled down all his &quot;favorites.&quot;  There were jelly beans and gumdrops, buttercream eggs and a big chocolate bunny.  And then there was a little yellow marshmallow chick.  &quot;It was the same color as his fuzzy yellow blanket.&quot;  And Owen loved it.  He didn't eat the chick, but played with it all day.  At bedtime, Owen decided to put &quot;his favorite&quot; on the shelf with his best toys.  Sweet dreams.....  Henkes' simple and gentle text is kept to a minimum.  The real story is told through his bright and engaging artwork, and youngsters will enjoy the charming facial expressions and special details in each illustration.  Perfect for little ones 4 and younger, Owen's Marshmallow Chick is a sweet and tender board book you don't want to miss.	2002-04-06
1590814:US	52793250	R1XD8SJYPNNJNZ	0689847033	777959215	Consider Love: Its Moods and Many Ways	Books	5	21	22	N	N	The Gift of Love.....	&quot;Consider love./Look here and there./Consider love./It's everywhere./Condsider love./Observe a while./It comes in every/shape and style.&quot;  Sandra Boynton and her easily recognizable, quirky menagerie explore all the facets of love.  From the hopeful, unbounded, deep, cautious, and shallow, to the extravagant, eloquent, hot, over-jealous, and problematic, love is all around us, and here to stay.  Ms Boyton's engaging and creative text, full of rhyming wordplay, energy, and joy, is sure to put a big smile on your face, and is only outdone by her charming and amusing, ingenious signature illustrations.  Together word and art offer a large slice of affection to be read and shared with those you love.  Perfect for lovers of all ages, Consider Love is a sweet and endearing, feel-good gift book that's just right for Valentine's Day, birthdays, anniversaries, and really any and every time you want to let that special someone know how much you care.  &quot;Now consider/one love/in the/midst of/the crowd-/an affectionate love,/neither timid nor loud./A love that appreciates/fire, and grace./A love that adores/one remarkable face./A love that is steady./devoted,/and true-/Consider my love for incredible you.&quot;	2002-04-06
1592036:US	52793250	R2EY4XNNMCOKVX	0689849303	218310123	Wish, Change, Friend	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Power of Words.....	Little Pig lived alone under a big oak tree.  He spent his days reading his books, &quot;and for a long time that was enough for him.&quot;  Then one day, he came across three new words, WISH, CHANGE, and FRIEND.  &quot;Little Pig closed his eyes and tried the words out.  &quot;I WISH for a CHANGE and a FRIEND.&quot;  And the WISH worked.  It began to snow, a nice CHANGE, and Little Pig built a snowman FRIEND.  Off they went traveling north until they met a penguin reading a book.  He introduced the two friends to three new words, PIG and TOGETHER and PENGUIN.  Now the three friends head back home to Little Pig's oak tree to open a FRIENDS TOGETHER SHOP, deciding that most of all they like the word TOGETHER best.  &quot;That one lasts the longest.&quot;  Ian Whybrow has written a quiet and gentle little treasure that's sure to become a family bedtime favorite in no time.  His simple, soothing, and engaging text takes preschoolers on a joyous new word and friendship adventure, and is complemented by Tiphanie Beeke's sweet, colorful and expressive childlike artwork that brings these endearing characters to life.  &quot;If you WISH/For a CHANGE/Get TOGETHER here!/Read a book or/Make a new FRIEND!&quot;	2002-04-05
1592613:US	52793250	R1ERCPE9XO5J3X	1551669161	421648401	Prescribed Danger (Dr. Rhea Lynch Novels)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	&quot;Things Aren't Always as they Seem....&quot;	It was the sound of the cough that stopped Dawkins County, Emergency Room physician, Dr Rhea Lynch, in her tracks;  &quot;...a long moist sound.  Like the sound of wet linen being torn.&quot;  The interracial couple had been kidnapped, beaten, and tortured over a period of days, and found chilled and soaking in Prosperity Creek by rescue workers.  Chest x-rays showed a mysterious, fast-moving pulmonary infection that was literary destroying and eating up their lungs.  Within hours both were dead.  Soon other victims begin showing up at the emergency room with that same distinctive cough, only to die horrible, excruciating deaths hours later, and Dr Lynch is afraid Dawkins may have an epidemic on its hands.  As she, her sort-of-boyfriend, cop, Mark Stafford and the CDC race to discover the origins of this death sentence, and find a treatment or cure, they find themselves caught in the middle of a sinister, race related plot.  What could white supremacist hate groups, doomsday religious fanatics, and the military have in common and is it possible that they've  unleashed a bioterrorist attack on sleepy Dawkins County, South Carolina..... Fasten your seatbelt!  Gwen Hunter's back, and her second installment of the Dr Rhea Lynch series is about to set you on the edge of your seat and keep you there.  This is a medical thriller that has it all...an intriguing, compelling story line full of twists, turns, and vivid, riveting scenes, crisp, tense, intelligent writing, and well drawn, interesting, original characters.  But it's Ms Hunter's indepth, detailed knowledge of medicine, procedures, the hospital, its staff, and the emergency room that makes this novel stand out, and adds real credibility to the story.  And once you've read the first harrowing chapter, be prepared to finish this thriller in one sitting.  For those new to Gwen Hunter, Dr Lynch and company, be sure to start at the beginning with Delayed Diagnois.  For those who are already fans, Prescribed Danger belongs at the top of every medical thriller lover's &quot;must read&quot; list	2002-04-05
1594290:US	52793250	R2GEU2VZ58BIUS	059096075X	736035824	Amelia And Eleanor Go For A Ride	Books	5	4	4	N	N	&quot;...Something Exciting was Bound to Happen...&quot;	&quot;Amelia and Eleanor were birds of a feather.  Eleanor was outspoken and determined.  So was Amelia.  Amelia was daring and liked to try things other women wouldn't even consider.  Eleanor was the very same...&quot;  So begins Pam Munoz Ryan's marvelous picture book adventure, Amelia And Eleanor Go For A Ride.  These two famous &quot;birds&quot; were Eleanor Roosevelt, First Lady of the United States, and Amelia Earhart, world famous aviator and the first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic.  Based on an actual event, using newpaper accounts, diaries, and book transcripts, Ms Ryan tells the intriguing story of how these two friends ditched a White House dinner party one April night in 1933, and ignoring protests from the Secret Service took a daring night flight from Washington to Baltimore and back.  Her easy to read and engaging text is exciting and entertaining.  Brian Selznick's vivid black and white pencil illustrations have the look of old photographs, and capture the story beautifully.  Together both word and art present a well researched, thrilling story, rich in many authentic details, and includes an Author's Note and actual picture to enhance this wonderful event.  Perfect for youngsters 6-10, Amelia And Eleanor Go For A Ride transports the reader back in time when flying, especially night flight was new, and let's you tag along on a once in a lifetime adventure as history is made.	2002-04-03
1594792:US	52793250	R1BQZM9JLOOZC8	0763612022	438949077	Bat Loves the Night	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Bats Galore.....	&quot;Bat is waking, upside down as usual, hanging by her toenails.  Her beady eyes open.  Her pixie ears twitch.  She shakes her thistledown fur...&quot;  So begins Nicola Davies marvelous picture book introduction to the world of bats.  Follow mother bat as she awakens at dusk, flies out into the night hunting and searching for food, then returns home at sunrise to feed her batling, and sleep again until nightfall.  Ms Davies combines a simple and evocative story line with interesting scientific information, fun facts, and trivia.  Find out where bats live, how they hang upside down so effortlessly, their special body features, how they navigate at night by echolocation, what they eat, how they hunt...  Sarah Fox-Davies' quiet and eloquent illustrations complement the text beautifully, and bring this mysterious little creature and its habitat to life.  Perfect for emerging readers, Bat Loves The Night is non-fiction at its very best, and is a fascinating and intriguing book budding scientists will want to study, pore over, and read again and again.	2002-04-03
1596397:US	52793250	RMA0MRXAW9QHS	0688167195	641931032	The Frogs Wore Red Suspenders	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Poetry for Everyone.....	What do you get when poet, Jack Prelutsky collaborates with illustrator, Petra Mathers?  An unrivaled collection of twenty-eight playful, whimsical verses that take you on a delightful trip from one end of the country to the other.  Visit Minot, North Dakota, Monterey Bay, the Grand Canyon, and Buffalo, Indianapolis, Kentucky, Winnemuca, and Seattle and meet charming characters, of both the people and animal persuasion.  Travel with Barnaby Boone in his yellow balloon...&quot;He drifted for days through the blue Texas skies,/feasting on hamburgers, hot dogs, and pies.&quot;  Find out what happens in Tuscaloosa after dark when the farm animals gather in the park...&quot;They danced a jig and they danced a reel,/then they all sat down to a fine hot meal/of corn and okra, dumpling stew,/at that Alabama barbecue.&quot;  And meet Peanut Peg and Peanut Pete...&quot;All day long they gaily sell/peanuts still inside the shell,/peanuts salty, peanuts sweet-/Peanut Peg and Peanut Pete.&quot;  Mr Prelutsky's joyous, lilting rhymes are full of energy, humor, wordplay, and rhythm,  and beg to be shared and read aloud.  Ms Mather's signature bright and expressive, charming artwork is rich in engaging detail, captures each poem beautifully, and brings it to life.  Together, this dynamic duo has authored an entertaining and irresistible treasure that's sure to become a classic.  Perfect for kids 3 to 93, The Frog Wore Red Suspenders is a sweet little masterpiece the entire family can read and share now, and with future generations in the years to come.	2002-04-02
1598966:US	52793250	R3FJ0UG3N7ADLS	0689822278	320252914	Under the Quilt of Night	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Powerful Ride on the Underground Railroad.....	&quot;I'm young/but my legs are strong./I can run.// I run so fast,/I lead the way;/the ones I love race right behind./Pounding dirt and grass,/jumping rocks and roots,/my feet make drumbeats/on the path...&quot;  So begins our young narrator's race for freedom on the Underground Railroad.  She and her family travel &quot;under the quilt of night&quot;, through the woods and across rivers and streams to a safe house where they receive dry clothes, food and a place to sleep before they're secreted away in a false bottomed wagon to the next stop on their way to Canada and freedom.  And always behind them the men and their dogs, tracking this brave band of slaves.  It's a harrowing journey.  &quot;...We can't turn back - /we would be beaten, sold away,/our chances gone for good./We must go on or die./I hang on tight./Fear is so real, it lies here beside me...&quot;  But this is a &quot;ride&quot; that must be taken;  the trip to freedom..... Deborah Hopkinson and James Ransome's marvelous sequel to Sweet Clara And The Freedom Quilt is a powerful, tense, and compelling introduction to the Underground Railroad and pre-Civil War history.  Ms Hopkinson's stirring text, written in free verse is full of imagery and magic, and enhanced by Mr Ransome's evocative and expressive illustrations, done in dark and ominous tones.  Together word and art transport the reader back 150 years to the dark of night for an unforgettable ride, and youngsters will experience both the fear of escape and discovery, and the sheer joy of freedom at journey's end.  Perfect for children 7 and older, Under The Quilt Of Night includes an author's note at the end to explain and enrich the story.  &quot;Freedom!/I take a deep breath/and when I let go/my voice flies up in a song./My own song/of running in sunshine/and dancing through fields./I'll jump every fence in my way.&quot;	2002-03-31
1599101:US	52793250	R1YKC2T41ZVGV7	0805063218	239441150	Unlovable	Books	5	6	7	N	N	True Friendship Saves the Day.....	Poor Alfred is unlovable.  Everybody tells him so and he believes them.  His housemates, the cat, parrot and even the goldfish tease him mercilessly.  &quot;You've got the ugliest mug I've ever seen.  No one could love you!&quot;  The neighborhood dogs constantly belittle him.  &quot;His mouth is too small to hold a ball...&quot;  &quot;His legs are way too short for running...&quot;  &quot;You couldn't even scare a mailman.&quot;  So Alfred spends most of his time alone in his fenced backyard.  One day he hears a snuffling sound on the other side of the fence.  A new dog, Rex, has moved in.  Neither dog is tall enough to see over the fence, so in a hasty moment of wishful thinking, Alfred tells his new buddy a little fib.  &quot;My name is Alfred.  I'm a golden retriever.&quot;  Their friendship blossoms.  They like all the same things, sleeping in the sun, dog food, and scratching.  And they both hate baths and going to the vet.  Day after day, they sit on either side of the fence talking for hours.  Then one morning, Rex has a brilliant idea.  He decides to dig under the fence and come over, so that the two can finally meet.....  Dan Yaccarino has written a charming and sensitive book, with a gentle message, that won't be lost on little ones still finding their way through the minefield of early friendships.  His simple and engaging text is complemented by bold, bright, and expressive illustrations, and youngsters will love watching this sad and lonely little dog bloom as he becomes more confident, and feels the joy of true friendship.  With its happily-ever-after, surprise ending, Unlovable is a sweet and delightful picture book preschoolers will beg to read again and again.	2002-03-31
1599860:US	52793250	RV6N6RI3ECU19	0786867116	588104426	The Hearse Case Scenario	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Baltimore's Favorite Mortician/PI is Back.....	&quot;Apparently I was the first person Shrimp Martin called after Lucy Taylor shot him.&quot;  So begins Baltimore's favorite  mortician, Hitchcock Sewell's Saturday afternoon;  a call from an obviously wounded, sleazy nightclub owner.  He has a wicked toothache, bodies to prepare, wakes to hold, funerals to schedule, and now as he hangs up the phone, a dazed Lucy Taylor in his office holding a gun.  Fortunately, the gunshot wasn't fatal.  Unfortunately, the stab wound directly to the heart that Shrimp received later that day in the hospital was.  Now prime suspect, down-on-her-luck Lucy, has disappeared and Hitch feels obligated to help his old childhood friend clear her name.  Sure she shot him, and probably had good reason.  But murder, no way.  It doesn't take long before Hitch realizes this is much more than a simple whodunit.  He's in way over his head with a case full of murder, mayhem, and missing persons.  So he works a deal and teams up with a real private investigator, Pete Munger, and together the two are determined to sort out this ever-growing mess, and bring the bad guys and killer to justice.....  Turn off the phone and lock the door, Tim Cockey's latest is about to take you on a manic roller coaster ride through colorful downtown Baltimore.  This is a light and thoroughly entertaining mystery that has it all...a compelling, intriguing, and intricate plot with twists, turns, and more than a few surprises, vivid scenes that crackle with humor and tension, and smart, crisp writing full of clever and witty asides and engaging, irreverent dialogue.  But it's Mr Cockey's marvelous cast of well drawn, original characters that makes this novel really sparkle, and once you've been introduced to all the fun in Baltimore with Hitchcock Sewell and company, you'll be hooked for sure.  The Hearse Case Scenario is the third novel of a series that just gets better with each new installment.  For those of you new to Tim Cockey and his irresistible mortician, startat the beginning with The Hearse You Came In On and read them all.  For those who are already fans, Mr Cockey's latest opus doesn't disappoint.	2002-03-30
1610518:US	52793250	R1CLMOMY6M27SJ	0374335508	926403464	Is My Friend at Home? : Pueblo Fireside Tales	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Tell Me A Story.....	&quot;In the evening the Sun touches the ocean in the west and climbs down the long ladder to the underworld.  Then he sets out on his underground journey to the sunrise place in the east.  Up above, now that the world is dark, the time has come for people to light fires and tell stories.&quot;  Join John Bierhorst at the crackling campfire as he retells seven Pueblo fireside tales.  These are stories that just beg to be read aloud.  Each short and engaging tale centers around the theme of friendship, and is rich in Native American insight, wisdom, and humor.  Wendy Watson's charming and expressive cartoon-like artwork, in quiet, subdued desert earth-tones, complement each story beautifully, and bring the endearing cast of animal characters to life.  Find out why Coyote has short ears, how Snake lost his only friend, why peaches are sweet, and how Bee learned to fly...  Perfect for youngsters 5-10, Is My Friend At Home? is a marvelous collection the entire family can read and share together.  &quot;The Sun has come to the end of his underground journey.  As he climbs up the ladder to the sunrise place, he puts on the skin of a gray fox, and white dawn comes up.  &quot;Ha!&quot; he cries and he puts on the skin of a yellow fox, and yellow dawn comes up.  He steps out of the underworld.  It becomes morning.  No more storytelling until nightfall.&quot;	2002-03-21
1612593:US	52793250	R16W7XFLPYEECZ	0689206151	912356669	May I Bring a Friend?	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Special Invitation.....	&quot;The King and Queen/Invited me/To come to their house/On Sunday for tea.// I told the Queen/And the Queen told the King/I had a friend/I wanted to bring.// The King told the Queen,/&quot;My dear, my dear,/Any friend of our friend/Is welcome here.&quot;// So I brought my friend...&quot;  So begins Beatrice Schenk De Regniers' timeless classic, May I Bring A Friend? originally published in 1964.  Our young narrator is invited to the palace quite often, in fact every day of the week, and has lots of interesting friends, he politely asks to bring...a giraffe to tea on Sunday, a hippo to dinner on Monday, monkeys to lunch on Tuesday, an elephant to breakfast on Wednesday, a pride of disguised lions for Halloween on Thursday, and a horn playing seal for Friday's Apple Pie Day.  Finally on Saturday, the little boy and all his special friends extend an invitation to their ever-gracious hosts.  &quot;So that is why...// The King and Queen/And I and all/My friends were seen/On Saturday at half-past two/Having tea at the City Zoo.&quot;  Ms De Regniers' joyous, lilting, rhyming text begs to be read aloud, and the engaging repetition of each day's new  invitation allows little ones to interact and read along.  Beni Montresor won a Caldecott Medal for his boldly imaginative, colorful, and detailed pen and ink illustrations, and youngsters will enjoy all the humor and silly antics of visiting zoo animals.  Perfect for preschoolers, May I Bring A Friend? is still as fresh and entertaining as it was over thirty-five years ago, and is a simple little treasure to read and share now with friends and family, and future generations in the years to come.	2002-03-20
1612835:US	52793250	R35W33DYAIPS37	0590600427	451607894	Favorite Medieval Tales	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Knights, Monsters, Heroes, and Dragons.....	As Mary Pope Osborne tells the reader in her marvelous introduction...&quot;In the beginning of medieval times in Europe, books did not exist.  Most people were unable to read or write.  Nevertheless, there were stories - stories of heroes and monsters, told by minstrels and poets, that were passed down orally from one generation to the next...&quot;  Eventually, these stories were written down by scribes, and Ms Osborne has collected nine favorite tales to share.  From Robin Hood And His Merry Men, The Sword In The Stone, Sir Gawain And The Green Knight, and Finn Maccoul, to Beowulf, The Werewolf, The Song Of Roland, Island Of The Lost Children, and Chanticleer And The Fox, these engaging retellings are dramatic and entertaining, easy to read, and often better when read aloud.  Meet monsters, knights, heroes, and dragons, and travel to faraway, mysterious, and enchanting places.  Troy Howell's vivid, lush paintings, stay true to the medieval style, and add just the right touch to enhance each story.  Ms Osborne and Mr Howell include informative reference notes on the stories, medieval story forms, people, time periods, language, chronology, and the art of the middle ages that is sure to peak the interest of young and old alike.  Perfect for youngsters ten and older, Favorite Medieval Tales is a masterpiece of intriguing storytelling that will whet the appetite, and send readers looking for more.	2002-03-20
1614483:US	52793250	R2LPOEZJKIM3GP	1584300418	719138626	Love to Langston	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Introducing Langston Hughes.....	Meet James Langston Hughes in a unique and entertaining biography that brings this great poet of the Harlem Renaissance to life.  Written in free verse, Tony Medina's fourteen poems follow Langston from his boyhood in Kansas marked by racism and poverty, to his trips to Africa and around the world, and finally to life in his beloved Harlem...&quot;Harlem is the capital of my world/black and beautiful and bruised/like me...&quot;  Mr Medina's simple, yet powerful poems speak volumes, and are full of energy, rhythm, wisdom, and truth.  &quot;In Topeka, Kansas/the teacher makes me sit/in the corner/in the last row/far away from/the other kids// She rolls her eyes/and sucks her teeth/with heavy heavy sighs/and lies and lies// She tells one kid/not to eat licorice/or he'll turn black/like me// When Mama finds out/she takes me out of school/she rolls her eyes/and sucks her teeth/with heavy heavy sighs// And why why why&quot;  R. Gregory Christie's expressive, bold, and riveting illustrations complement each poem beautifully, and draw the reader into the world Langston Hughes loved and remembered.  Together word and art present an engaging and evocative tribute to a remarkable and vibrant man who loved people, books, and jazz.  This is much more than a creative and innovative biography, it's a labor of love.  Perfect for youngsters 7 and older, Mr Medina includes notes, details, and insight to help flesh out, complete, and enrich these original poems about Langston Hughes' life, and introduce Hughes and his work to a whole new generation.   This engaging biography is sure to whet the appetite of both young and old alike, and send you out looking for more.  So come celebrate the life of Langston Hughes on what would have been his one hundredth birthday...  &quot;Sometimes life ain't/always a hoot/or a holler// But if you manage/to give it/a bother// Even if you miss/your mother/or don't like your father// There'll be better days/up ahead// A whole mess of/happenin' days/upahead// You can sit and sulk/suck your teeth/and sigh// Or love and laugh/and live life/by and by&quot;	2002-03-19
1615530:US	52793250	R7BGQ8BBZE3HL	0688150853	435609833	Michelangelo	Books	5	17	19	N	N	The Life and Times of Michelangelo.....	Born March 6, 1475 in the little stonecutter's village of Caprese, about fifty miles east of Florence, and left in the care of a nurse, Michelangelo &quot;fell asleep to the odd lullaby of chisel striking stone.  Years later he remarked that his love of sculpture must have come to him along with his foster mother's milk.&quot;  From an early age, Michelangelo wanted to become an artist.  His father, ashamed that his son wanted to enter such a lowly profession, tried to literally beat the idea out of him, but the headstrong and determined child would not give in, and in 1488 was apprenticed to the famous painter, Domenico Ghirlandaio.  After only one year his unrivaled talent was noticed by Lorenzo de'Medici, a great and generous art lover and patron.  He brought Michelangelo into his palace and treated him as one of his sons, encouraging his art.  But upon Lorenzo's untimely death, Michelangelo was sent back to his father's house, and cast in the role of family breadwinner, &quot;a role he would play for the rest of his life.&quot;  And so it was that the difficult and disagreeable, perfectionist Michelangelo's greatest masterpieces, The Pieta, David, and the paintings on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, were commissioned works by patrons and popes.....  Diane Stanley's intriguing biography takes the reader on a compelling and suspenseful journey as she details the life and times of the greatest artist of the Renaissance.  Her easy to read and engaging text is rich in history, art, drama, and anecdotes, and complemented by her ingeniously creative and innovative illustrations.  Together word and art captures the essence of the arrogant and tormented artist, and brings Michelangelo and the Renaissance to life on the page.  Perfect for youngsters 9-12, Michelangelo is a well researched and spellbinding introductory biography, and another marvelous addition to Ms Stanley's superb series.	2002-03-18
1616467:US	52793250	R136GPYYPA0AVW	0375803491	391993189	Tomas and the Library Lady (Dragonfly Books)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A Hearwarming, True Story.....	&quot;It was midnight.  The light of the full moon followed the tired old car.  Tomas was tired too.  Hot and tired.  He missed his own bed, in his own house in Texas.  Tomas was on his way to Iowa again with his family...&quot;  Tomas' family were migrant workers.  As his parents toiled in the fields during the day picking corn in the hot Iowa sun, Tomas and his brother, Enrique, tried to stay cool under the shade of trees, listening to the old stories told by their grandfather, Papa Grande.  &quot;Tomas, you know all my stories, &quot; he said.  &quot;There are many more in the library.  You are big enough to go by youself.  Then you can teach us new stories.&quot;  The library was large and cool, and had more books than Tomas had ever imagined.  But more importantly, the librarian was very kind and took the young boy  under her wing.  And with her help, opens up a whole new world for Tomas; the love of books and learning.....  Based on the story of Tomas Rivera, a migrant worker who grew up to become an educator and eventually chancellor of the University of California at Riverside, Tomas And The Library Lady is a heartwarming and inspiring story.  Pat Mora's sweet, simple, and quiet text is complemented by Raul Colon's gentle and evocative illustrations and together word and art detail the joys of reading, and the wonderful impact one person can have on a young life.  Perfect for children 4-8, Ms Mora includes a short biography of Tomas Rivera at the end to complete the story.	2002-03-17
1618295:US	52793250	RYUAURU0HTWTF	0805066489	293739503	Love Her Madly: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Justice, Texas Style.....	Meet Poppy Rice, former Florida prosecutor and Bronx district attorney turned cracker-jack FBI Agent.  She was brought to Washington to clean up and revamp the infamous FBI crime lab.  With her take-no-prisoners style, she's turned the once sloppy and sometimes inept facility into a state of the art, well-oiled machine, the envy of the rest of the world.  Now she's carved out a new role for herself, reinvestigating old cases, the ones that may have fallen through the cracks in the bad old days of slipshod investigations, and that's how she comes across Rona Leigh Glueck.  Rona Leigh, former teenage ax murderer, now born again Christian, is sentenced to die by lethal injection in just ten days.  She was a seventeen year old alcoholic, drug addicted, malnourished and only eighty-eight pounds at the time of the murders. With her tiny frame and childlike wrists and hands, Poppy doesn't believe she could have wielded a twenty-four pound ax at least a dozen times.  Her trial was one big emotional travesty, topped off with very suspect expert testimony, &quot;glee&quot; made her able to do it.  But what really sends Poppy to Texas looking for justice is the fact that the FBI crime lab ignored a request from Rona Leigh's public defender.  Poppy feels if they had done their job, it just might have proven that Rona Leigh was innocent.....  Based loosely on the Karla Faye Tucker case and execution, Mary-Ann Tirone Smith has written a fresh and entertaining thriller you won't be able to put down.  This is an intriguing novel that has it all...a terrific and intricate story line complete with twists, turns, and more than a few surprises that keeps you off balance and turning pages, crisp, smart writing full of witty and irreverent dialogue and Texas humor, and vivid, riveting, sometimes laugh-out-loud-funny scenes.  But it's Ms Smith's well drawn, engaging and original characters that really make this book stand out, and once you've met tough, clever and very capable Poppy Rice, you'll be hooked for sure.  This is a book you don't want to miss.  Love Her Madly is the first of what should be a marvelous new series, and should definitely be at the top of every mystery/thriller fan's &quot;must read&quot; list.you'll be hooked for sure.  This is a book you don't want to miss.  Love Her Madly is the first of what should be a marvelous new series, and should definitely be at the top of every mystery/thriller fan's &quot;must read&quot; list.	2002-03-15
1620539:US	52793250	R25YBPS5F90MW3	1566564077	826299609	How Much Land Does a Man Need?	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Price of Happiness.....	There was once a Russian peasant who worked hard.  The earth never failed to feed him and his family.  His life was quiet and secure but he was never satisfied and happy.  &quot;We have too little land.  If we had more land, I would fear nothing and no one.&quot;  He borrowed money and bought twenty-five acres of land.  &quot;Now he was his own master.  The grain stood tall.  He had a bountiful harvest, and he made a handsome profit at market.  He was able to repay all his debts.  There was peace and happiness under his roof.&quot;  But unfortunately, it did not last for long.  He wanted more land so that he could become rich.  Over and over again he moved his family, so that he could buy more and more land.  One day a traveler told the peasant about good and fertile land in the faraway country of Bashkir.  There, for one thousand rubles, a man could have as much land as he could walk around in one day.....  Written in 1886, by Leo Tolstoy, and adapted for children, How Much Land Does A Man Need? is as fresh and powerful today, as it was over 100 years ago.  This is the story of a man who was never satisfied with what he had, and unable to sit back and enjoy the pleasures in his life.  Tolstoy's simple, engaging, and understated text is compelling and carries an important message.  Elena Abesinova's beautiful and vibrant artwork is rich in intricate detail, and begs to be explored.  Together word and art tell the sad story of a life wasted because of greed and envy.  Perfect for youngsters 7 and older, How Much Land Does A Man Need? includes a fascinating biography of Tolstoy at the end, and is an intriguing fable that's sure to open interesting and thoughtful discussions.	2002-03-14
1620639:US	52793250	RWR8ZVWWAOY42	0500278733	657609759	Sing Me a Story: The Metropolitan Opera's Book of Opera Stories for Children	Books	5	32	32	N	N	For the Love of Opera.....	The orchestra tunes, the audience is seated, a hush falls over the house as the the conductor raises his baton, the curtain opens, and the performance begins in all its splendor.  The opera, a magnificent feast for the eyes and ears.  Jane Rosenberg brings her writing and illustrating talents, her passion and love of opera to this marvelous collection.  Hear the intriguing stories of Aida, La Boheme, Die Fledermaus, The Magic Flute, Pagliacci, The Tales of Hoffman, Amahl and the Night Visitors, Carmen, The Barber of Seville, The Daughter of the Regiment, L'Enfant et les Sortileges, Hansel and Gretel, Die Meistersinger von Nurnberg, The Love for Three Oranges, and Porgy and Bess.  Each narrative is written in an easy to read and engaging style, and is full of history, mystery, drama, humor, and adventure.  The scenes are painstakingly set, the action thrilling and well described, and the dialogue eloquent and easily understood.  Ms Rosenberg's elegant and exquisite illustrations are rich in detail, capture the imagination, and send it soaring, and youngsters will visualize and appreciate the grandeur of the sets, scenery, and costumes.  Together word and art bring each story to life in an original and fascinating way. Perfect for youngsters 10 and older, or as a read aloud for younger children, Sing Me A Story is a superb introduction to the magical world of opera that is sure to whet the appetite, and peak the interest of young and old alike.	2002-03-13
1621543:US	52793250	R20YLWP73OYXPC	0688140033	153716436	The Book of Pirates	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Oh, To Be a Pirate.....	Ahoy Matey...raise the Jolly Roger and come aboard!  With selections from authors Robert Louis Stevenson, Gilbert and Sullivan, John Masefield, Washington Irving, and Arthur Conan Doyle..., award winning illustrator, Michael Hague, has amassed eleven classic poems and stories for this superb collection or pirate tales.  These entertaining and engaging stories, full of danger and excitement, are rich in history, drama, mystery, and adventure, and Mr Hague's evocative illustrations bring these tales to life.  Some are detailed and expressive pen and ink drawings.   Others, bold, lush, and vivid paintings in dark ominous tones.  But all transport readers back to a time when blood-thirsty pirates ruled the high seas, searched deserted islands for buried treasure, and walked the plank.  Perfect for youngsters 10 and older, The Book Of Pirates is a marvelous and riveting collection of pirate lore that is sure to send imaginations soaring.  &quot;Oh better far to live and die/Under the brave black flag I fly.../And it is, it is a glorious thing/To be a Pirate King!&quot;	2002-03-13
1624578:US	52793250	R1TCVRSLZ98TEP	0395181569	902144535	The Little House (Sandpiper Books)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Welcome Home, Little House.....	&quot;Once upon a time there was a Little House way out in the country.  She was a pretty Little House and she was strong and well built.&quot;  She sat on a hill covered with daisies and surrounded by apple trees, and enjoyed the sun during the day, the moon and stars at night, and the changing seasons.  And way, way off in the distance she could see just a hint of the city lights.  &quot;The Little House was curious about the city and wondered what it would be like to live there.&quot;  One day surveyors came, then steam shovels, trucks, and steam rollers, and soon they had built a road.  &quot;Now the Little House watched the trucks and automobiles going back and forth to the city.  Gasoline stations...roadside stands...and small houses followed the new road.  Everyone and everything moved much faster now than before.&quot;  Soon more roads were built, then more houses, apartments, tenements, schools, stores, and garages crowded the Little House.  A trolley ran back and forth in front of her, an elevated train ran above her, and a subway beneath.  She was sad and lonely, dirty and in disrepair.  &quot;No one wanted to live in her and take care of her any more.&quot;  Then one fine morning the great-great-granddaughter of the man who built the Little House was hurrying by.  She recognized the poor Little House and stopped.....  Originally published in 1942, Virginia Lee Burton's timeless classic is as fresh and charming today, as it was sixty years ago.  Her gentle and engaging text is full of empathy, and brings the endearing Little House to life.  Youngsters will feel the joy and contentment of country life when the Little House had purpose and was full of family and fun, and the sadness and loneliness as the city encroaches, and she becomes shabby, broken, and forgotten.  Ms Burton's sweet and simple, illustrations are whimsical, and add just the right touch.  Perfect for little ones 3-7 and complete with a satisfying happily-ever-after ending, The Little Houseis a perfect little treasure to read and share with friends and family now, and future generations in the years to come.	2002-03-11
1625463:US	52793250	R2R1POIBS59O75	0688161553	411240196	Leonardo da Vinci	Books	5	20	22	N	N	A Man of Vision.....	Meet Leonardo da Vinci, a man of vision who was centuries ahead of his time.  Born April 15, 1452, and raised in his father's house, Leonardo was the illegitimate son of Ser Piero, &quot;...an important man, a leading citizen of Vinci.&quot; and a peasant girl.  Because of the circumstances of his birth, he was not entitled to an upper class education in banking, medicine, or law, and &quot;what little schooling he got probably came from the parish priest and was limited to reading, writing, and simple arithmetic.  He later described himself as an omo sanza lettere, a man without education.&quot;  As a boy, Leonardo showed talent for drawing, and was sent to Florence to apprentice with the famous artist, Andrea del Verrocchio.  And it was there that the course of his life began to take shape.  Though his superb artistic talents were quickly recognized, and Leonardo was commissioned to paint many important works during his lifetime, he had a short attention span and was always restless, often failing to complete his pieces.   His imagination, his interests and genius went far beyond art and painting.  He was fascinated with anatomy, engineering, science, and music, and filled thousands of pages in his now famous notebooks with his ideas, plans, drawings and inventions.  He was employed by kings, princes and popes, and was the friend of Machiavelli, Cesar Borgia and King Francis I, of France.  But throughout his life he never married, and was a very solitary man.....  Diane Stanley brings Leonardo da Vinci to life in this beautifully written and well researched, introductory biography.  Her easy to read, conversational text is entertaining, engaging and intelligent, and packed full of history, drama, mystery, fun facts, anecdotes, and sketches from Leonardo's notebooks.  Her graceful and elegant illustrations complement the story line beautifully, and really capture the essence of the artist and his times.  With an introduction detailing the Italian Renaissance, and aPostscript to enhance and complete the narrative, this is an informative and spellbinding biography.  Perfect for youngsters 9-12, Leonardo da Vinci is a wonderful addition to Ms Stanley's highly acclaimed biographical series, and a book that definitely shouldn't be missed.	2002-03-10
1625700:US	52793250	R3VESKRWYZH9CM	1563977362	510549523	The Starry Night	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Van Gogh Lives.....	Young Bernard comes across an old and frail looking artist painting in New York's Central Park, and is entranced.  He sits in the grass and watches the man as the canvas is transformed into the dazzling reflecting pool and surrounding area.  &quot;The Big Apple never looked better!&quot;  As the painter packs his things, Bernard introduces himself.  &quot;Where are you going?&quot;  Bernard asked.  &quot;To find another place that asks to be painted.&quot;  And so Bernard joins him and takes Vincent all over New York City, to Harlem, the Statue of Liberty, the Brooklyn Bridge, Greenwich Village, Chinatown, Times Square, and Fifth Avenue...  &quot;Everywhere they went, Bernard watched as Vincent painted New York in bright and beautiful colors.&quot;  Finally it is time for Vincent to leave New York and move on.  But before he goes, he takes Bernard to see something very special on the second floor of the Museum Of Modern Art.....  Neil Waldman has written a marvelous and inspiring fantasy that takes youngsters on a &quot;Van Gogh&quot; adventure through New York City.  Mr Waldman's simple and gentle text takes a back seat to both his charming pen and ink story illustrations, and ingenious Van Gogh-styled, bold and bright New York scenes.  Together word and art transports the reader on an evocative and entertaining journey with one of the great masters.  Perfect for budding artists 4-8, The Starry Night is an engaging feast for the eyes;  a portrait of the artist, his work and his unique style.	2002-03-10
1626486:US	52793250	R1BNG34H5YJVXG	0152000968	271299041	The Seven Silly Eaters	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fun for Picky Eaters Everywhere.....	Poor Mrs Peters is the mother of seven very picky eaters.  There's the oldest, Peter, who will only drink warm milk, Lucy who drinks only homemade pink lemonade, and little Jack who eats only bowls and bowls of applesauce.  Then there's Mac who only eats creamy oatmeal that has to be strained twice, and Mary Lou, lover of only soft squishy homemade bread.  And last but not least the twins, Flo who eats only poached eggs, and Fran who eats only fried.  As the children grow, so do their appetites, and soon a very tired and frazzled Mrs Peters can barely keep up.&quot;...Creamy oatmeal, pots of it!/Homemade bread and lots of it!/Peeling apples by the peck,/Mrs. Peters was a wreck...&quot;  To make matters worse, tomorrow is her birthday and she's sure the children have forgotten.  But as she drags herself wearily up to bed, her children hatch a birthday surprise plan, and through a series of unlikely events, come up with the solution to all their future eating problems.....  Mary Ann Hoberman has written a gentle and entertaining story that is sure to charm both fussy and not so fussy eaters everywhere.  Her engaging, repetitive, rhyming text is full of energy and rhythm, and begs to be read aloud.  Marla Frazee's bold and expressive, humorous artwork grows busier and more chaotic with each new Peters' family addition, until it almost spills off the pages.  Children will enjoy exploring the inticate illustrations, and finding all the silly and special details.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, The Seven Silly Eaters is a marvelous, manic, romp, complete with a satisfying, happy ending that will tickle the funny bone of every member of your family, and is definitely a MUST for all home bookshelves.	2002-03-09
1630087:US	52793250	R285VQLF5WC67C	0786807148	657718441	Martin's Big Words: The Life of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Big, Powerful, Strong Words.....	Martin Luther King was a man of BIG words.  When others said &quot;hate&quot;, Martin said &quot;love.&quot;  When others said &quot;separate&quot;, he said &quot;together.&quot;  And when he heard others say &quot;war&quot;, Martin said &quot;peace.&quot;  &quot;Sooner or later, all the people of the world will have to discover a way to live together.&quot;  Martin always went where he was needed in the struggle for equality.  He shared his dreams and filled people with hope.  &quot;He walked with them and talked with them and sang with them and prayed with them.&quot;  Doreen Rappaport has written a simple and inspirational picture-book biography that combines her quiet, yet powerful prose, with Dr King's own &quot;big words.&quot;  Her text emphasises his courage and strong committment to non-violence, equal rights, and the civil rights movement.  &quot;White ministers told them to stop.  Mayors and governors and police chiefs and judges ordered them to stop.  But they kept on marching.&quot;  Bryan Collier's watercolor and cut paper collage illustrations are stunning and evocative, and together word and art create a passionate and powerful tribute to a great man of peace.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Martin's Big Words is an engaging and elegant introduction to a man who stood up and struggled to change America and the world, and includes a marvelous timeline of important dates and additional books and web sites to explore.  &quot;His big words are alive for us today.&quot;	2002-03-06
1630610:US	52793250	R3UN4D44CBTGAJ	0694006513	783007692	Jamberry	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Berry Blast.....	Come join a little boy and his very endearing bear friend as they travel through berryland, on a &quot;razzamatazzberry&quot; adventure of a lifetime, picking and eating and playing together.  Bruce Degen fills this entertaining treasure of a book with lively and joyous wordplay, alliteration, and high-spirited fun, and complements his jazzy, rhyming verse with bright, bold, and engaging illustrations.  Imaginations will soar with each page turn as little ones explore the busy artwork, finding something new and special each time they open the book.  Perfect for preschoolers, Jamberry is a marvelous mouth-watering, toe tapping, energetic, romp that begs to be read aloud, and is sure to send you off to the kitchen for a jamberry snack of your own.  This is a classic to share with family, friends and future generations.  &quot;Mountains and fountains/Rain down on me/Buried in berries/What a jam jamboree!&quot;	2002-03-06
1630642:US	52793250	R3FXTQM0RZR7IT	0618002731	679471651	Uncommon Traveler: Mary Kingsley in Africa	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Travel With a Remarkable Woman.....	In 1892, at the age of thirty, Mary Kingsley's parents died, and for the first time in her life Mary was free to do whatever she wanted.  Her childhood had been bleak and solitary.  She was completely housebound.  Mary never went to school or played with other children.  Her father traveled all over the world and was rarely home, and she spent all her time keeping house and nursing her sick and bedridden mother.  But this spirited girl made a life for herself in her father's library.  &quot;Books were her companions and teachers.&quot;  So, after her parent's death, and inspired by the travel and adventure books she loved, Mary did what was considered unthinkable for a proper lady of Victorian England, she set off alone to visit mysterious and dangerous West Africa.....  Don Brown has chronicled the life and wonderful adventures of Mary Kingsley in his introductory picture-book biography.  His straightforward and engaging text is full of history, drama, humor, and Mary's own words, and complemented by charming, evocative watercolor artwork.  Together word and art tell a fascinating and entertaining story of a remarkable and clever woman who took charge of her life and never looked back.  Mr Brown includes an author's note at the end to enhance and complete the story, and a bibliography of additional books about Ms Kingsley and her amazing African excursions.  Perfect for youngsters 5-9, Uncommon Traveler is a simple, yet spellbinding masterpiece you don't want to miss.	2002-03-06
1631321:US	52793250	R2USSDRKSK6U4B	0743202694	953997941	Money, Money, Money: A Novel of the 87th Precinct (87th Precinct Mysteries)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	McBain is Back, and Better than Ever.....	&quot;Detective Steve Carella wished that one of the lions hadn't dragged the victim's left leg into the 88th Precinct.  That was what brought Fat Ollie Weeks into the case.&quot;  It's Christmas week in fictional Isola, and despite the holiday, business at the 87th Precinct is brisk.  The unfortunate young lady being consumed by lions turned out to be Army Lieutenant Cassandra Jean Ridley, a pilot in the Gulf War.  Her death starts a wild chain of events that leads the boys of the detective squad to an unusual assortment of uncooperative characters, including the Secret Service, terrorists, counterfeiters, drug runners and petty criminals.  As the body count continues to rise, Carella and Weeks are having a hard time getting a handle on the case, and find it's nearly impossible to tell the good guys from the bad.....  It's hard to believe that after 40 some odd years, a series could remain fresh and entertaining, but Ed McBain has beaten the odds, and his latest, Money, Money, Money, doesn't disappoint.  This is a fast-paced, intriguing police procedural, full of crisp, spare writing, unrivaled dialogue, vivid scenes, and brilliant characterizations.  This is the master at work, and nobody does it better.  Mr McBain weaves the varied and seemingly unrelated threads of his fascinating and complex story line, effortlessly, and then ties them all together into a neat, logical and very satisfying package at the end.  For those new to Ed McBain and the boys of the 87th Precinct, start with some of his earlier books to get the flavor of this wonderful series.  For those who are already fans, Money, Money, Money deserves all the awards it's about to win.	2002-03-05
1632657:US	52793250	R20RC517X8WHLB	0843176806	870389146	The Great Show-and-Tell Disaster	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Show and Tell Gone Wrong.....	Poor Ned, today is show and tell and he has nothing to bring.  So he goes to his closet and checks out his stash.  &quot;A rusty eggbeater, a toy laser beam,/A handheld electronic spelling machine./A Slinky with kinks and an old ping-pong paddle,/A snow globe that said &quot;Having Fun in Seattle.&quot;/He smushed them together with duct tape and glue./He had an invention, but what did it do?&quot;  So he points and he clicks and the SHOE on his bed becomes a HOSE spraying cold water.  He tries it again and his LAMP becomes a PALM, and it is then that he realizes he'd invented a Mixed-Up Ray, a contraption that takes words and makes crazy anagrams.  His AUNT becomes a TUNA, PEAS become APES, and as soon as he points his ray at the kids at school, they begin to change.  CATHY becomes a YACHT, NAT an ANT, BRIAN a BRAIN &quot;with a big throbbing thinker&quot;,and his teacher, MRS ETON, a MONSTER.  But things really become interesting when the class leaves on an art museum field trip.....  Mike Reiss has written an engaging, manic romp that gets wilder and sillier with each page turn.  His hilarious, rhyming text is full of energy and motion, and complemented by Mike Cressy's bold, bright, and busy cartoon-like illustrations.  Together they've authored an entertaining chain of events story with a wonderfully clever solution.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Great Show-and-Tell Disaster is a delightful, high-spirited story kids will beg to read again and again.	2002-03-04
1634386:US	52793250	R3HR0XH7RPUQZR	0525458573	572251232	Piracy and Plunder: A Murderous Business	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Piracy, A Nasty Business.....	In his Foreword, Milton Meltzer states the obvious:  &quot;Many books have been published about pirates.  So many that you may wonder why write still another?&quot;  The simple answer to this question, is to finally set the record straight.  Pirates have been so romanticized over the years in movies, plays, and books, that we all think of them as swashbuckling Erol Flynns, silly and ineffective Captain Hooks, or basically good-hearted Long John Silvers, when in reality they were brutal and vicious, violent and greedy murderers and thieves.  Mr Meltzer's well researched, intriguing, and realistic book details the rich history of this dirty business from the ancient Greeks and Vikings to the present.  His vivid and engaging text is riveting, and not for the faint of heart, and is complemented by Bruce Waldman's dark and ominous artwork.  Perfect for youngsters 12 and older, Piracy &amp; Plunder is enlightening non-fiction at its very best, and an absorbing and fascinating book that definitely shouldn't be missed.	2002-03-03
1634505:US	52793250	R1CLG0Y6E6HKS9	0689831870	793024369	Bear Snores On	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Sleep On, Brown Bear.....	&quot;In a cave in the woods,/in his deep, dark lair,/through the long cold winter/sleeps a great brown bear...&quot;  A little mouse arrives and seeks shelter from the freezing cold and snowy winter, and builds a fire to stay warm.  &quot;But the bear snores on.&quot;  Soon a rabbit joins the mouse and they pop popcorn and brew warm tea in the now cozy cave.  &quot;But the bear snores on.&quot;  In comes a badger, then a gopher, mole, wren, and raven.  But the bear snores on, oblivious to all the eating and drinking and partying now taking place in his lair.  That is, until a small pepper fleck from the stew lands right on his nose and he sneezes.  Bear wakes up, takes a look around at all the goings on, and gnarls and snarls, roars and rumbles, jumps and stomps, growls and grumbles.  He is one unhappy bear.  But never fear, his woodland friends know just what to do.....  Karma Wilson has written a gentle and inviting story that's sure to take the chill out of a cold winter's day.  Her joyous, lyrical, rhyming text is full of humor, wordplay, alliteration, and sound effects, and just begs to be read aloud.  With its repetitive refrain, &quot;But the bear snores on&quot;, little ones will enjoy being able to &quot;help&quot; you read.  Jane Chapman's delightful colorful and expressive illustrations, in soft tones, bring the engaging characters to life, and gives the story a warm and cozy feel.  Perfect for preschoolers, Bear Snores On is a sweet and entertaining picture book, with a charming and amusing ending, you don't want to miss.	2002-03-03
1634752:US	52793250	R3QVQQLK5SBIKR	0618132015	278972017	Henry Builds a Cabin	Books	5	26	27	N	N	The Perfect Home.....	Henry, a sturdy looking bear wearing a large hat and workclothes, is building a cabin in the woods.  He borrows an ax and cuts down twelve trees for framing, buys an old shed, takes it apart and uses the wood for the walls and floor.  He builds a front door, finds two used windows and some old shingles for the roof.  As he's building, friends stop by to look at the cabin and check on his progress.  Emerson comments that it seems too small to eat in.  &quot;It's bigger than it looks,&quot; replies Henry and shows him his garden out back.  &quot;When it's finished, this will be my dining room.&quot;  Friend, Alcott thinks the cabin will be too dark to read in, but Henry shows him a sunny spot right outside.  &quot;This will be my library.&quot;  And when Miss Lydia shows concern that there won't be room for dancing, Henry shows her the pathway down to the pond, his grand stairway to the ballroom.  On July 4th, Henry's cabin is finished and he moves in.  He eats in the &quot;dining room&quot;, reads in the &quot;library&quot; and dances in his &quot;ballroom&quot;.  When it begins to rain, he hurries back to his cabin, where in a very wise and amusing way he shows us that his new home is just perfect.....  D.B. Johnson is back with a marvelous sequel to his award winning first picture book, Henry Hikes To Fitchburg, based on the life of Henry David Thoreau.  His simple and inspiring text is sure to be a springboard to interesting and thoughtful discussions.  What does a home really need, and how big does it have to be?  Mr Johnson's creative and expressive, light-filled illustrations enhance the story beautifully, and capture the imagination.  With an author's note at the end &quot;About Henry's Cabin&quot;, to help fill in the details of how and why Thoreau built his cabin, its cost, and his two years living at Waldens Pond, Henry Builds A Cabin is an engaging and unique little treasure youngsters 4-8 shouldn't miss.  &quot;Most men appear never to have considered what a house is, and are actually though needlessly poor all their lives because they think they must have such a one as their neighbors have.&quot;	2002-03-02
1637250:US	52793250	R1FMGEBIR8I0Z1	0152002227	455088182	Meet the Orchestra	Books	4	30	32	N	N	Instruments Galore.....	Meet the orchestra and all the fabulous instruments that come together to make such wonderful sounds, from the strings that are bowed or plucked, to the woodwinds and brass instruments that you blow air into, to the percussion section where instruments are &quot;beaten, banged, dinged, and pinged.&quot;  Author Ann Hayes takes you on a marvelous and intriguing journey through the orchestra, describing each section, instrument, and sound in simple, engaging and evocative language.  Youngsters will almost be able to hear the low notes of the string bass moan and groan, the sadness of saying good-bye to someone you love when the oboe is played, flags flying and soldiers marching with the notes of the trumpet, and the flash of lightning when the cymbals crash.  Unfortunately, Karen Thompson's illustrations are not equal to the text and are a bit dull and uninspired as you see page after page of expressionless animals, dressed in concert garb, holding instruments.  Perfect for preschoolers, Meet The Orchestra is a lovely and gentle, read aloud introduction to musical instruments and their sounds the whole family can share together, and should peak the interest of budding little musicians everywhere.	2002-02-28
1638701:US	52793250	RSB04ELJIHVOE	0399148108	89043645	Everybody Pays	Books	5	7	8	N	N	&quot;...the Price of Truth&quot;	On the night of September 27, 1972, twenty-five year old Bob Lowe was just out walking his dog when he witnessed the brutal murder of his neighbor, Billy Logan.  Lowe, an auto mechanic and family man living in a blue-collar neighborhood on Chicago's West Side, came literally face to face with the killer, Harry Aleman, before he jumped into an idling car and sped away.  It was a vicious mob hit, plain and simple. Lowe easily identified Aleman, and with the assurance of witness protection, was willing to do his civic duty and testify.  As he stubbornly told the police and his frightened family, &quot;I saw what I saw.&quot;  So began Bob Lowe's twenty-five year odyssey through two murder trials, political corruption and pay-offs, disillusionment with the system, depression, petty crime, alcoholism, and finally vindication, redemption and justice.....  Fasten your seatbelts, Maurice Possley and Rick Kogan are about to take you on a very bumpy, suspenseful, and compelling ride through the mean streets of Chicago during the years organized crime had a stranglehold on police, judges, and politicians at the highest levels.  This is a fascinating, intricate, and intriguing page-turner, made even more so because it's all true.  The writing is crisp, intelligent, and engaging, the scenes vivid and riveting, and the characterizations, brilliant.  But it's Possley's and Kogan's indepth, painstaking research and great attention to detail that makes this novel stand out.  Everybody Pays:  Two Men, One Murder And The Price Of Truth is a spectacular and absorbing story, rich in drama and history, and told with insight, wisdom, and humor.  This is a novel that shouldn't be missed and should definitely find a place at the top of every mystery/thriller and true crime fan's MUST READ list.	2002-02-27
1638945:US	52793250	R3E73YGIKMBZ9Q	0395845416	918531253	Calico the Wonder Horse, or the Saga of Stewy Stinker	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Calico to the Rescue.....	&quot;Way out west in Cactus County there was a horse named Calico.  She wasn't very pretty...but she was very smart.  She was the smartest fastest horse in all of Cactus County.&quot; She could run like &quot;greased lightning&quot;, and she could smell like a bloodhound.  &quot;Her nose was so keen she could track a bee through a blizzard.&quot;  She was owned by a cowboy named Hank, and &quot;...she would go to the end of the trail for Hank.  They had a language all their own and understood each other perfectly.&quot;  Life was good and happy for everyone who lived in Cactus County, no locks, no fences, and no sheriff or jail.  But across the Cactus River were the Badlands where the villains of this story lived.  And the meanest, sneakiest, absolutely worst bad man of them all was Stewy Stinker.  He was so mean, &quot;he would hold up Santa Claus on Christmas Eve if he had a chance.&quot;  So sit back and get comfortable and see what happened when Stewy Stinker and his nasty gang came to town.....  First published in 1941, Calico The Wonder Horse is as fresh and entertaining today, as it was over fifty years ago.  This is an old fashioned, action packed, rootin' tootin' western that has it all...cattle rustling, hold-ups, a stampede and kidnapping, a wild and thrilling stagecoach chase, and through it all, Calico comes to the rescue, outsmarts the bad guys and saves the day.  Virginia Lee Burton's clever, witty text is dramatic, engaging and full of wild west colloquialisms that will have both kids and adults laughing and cheering at all the fun.  Her marvelous comic strip illustrations are expressive and full of detail and beg to be pored over and explored.  Put it all together and you have the makings of a timeless classic to share with friends, family and future generations.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Calico The Wonder Horse is a masterpiece and a MUST for every home library.	2002-02-27
1639431:US	52793250	R1797ATC4Q7F8O	0374343888	525012122	The Library	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Always Another Good Book to Read.....	Elizabeth Brown always loved books.  In fact, &quot;She didn't like to play with dolls,/She didn't like to skate./She learned to read quite early/And at an incredible rate.&quot;  And through her long life, Elizabeth was never without a book, even while vacuuming or shopping or even exercising.  As the years passed, her collection grew until every surface was covered with books.  &quot;When volumes climbed the parlor walls/And blocked the big front door,/She had to face the awful fact/She could not have one more.&quot;  So Elizabeth Brown did the wise and generous thing, she shared her books with the entire town in a very original way.....  The wonderful husband and wife team of Sarah Stewart and David Small have authored a delightful and entertaining story about an endearing red-headed, nearsighted bibliophile.  Ms Stewart's simple and gentle, rhyming text sparkles, and is complemented by Mr Small's charming and humorous artwork. Children and adults alike will enjoy all the wonderfully special details in each picture.  Together word and art paint an engaging portrait of a unique and spirited, book-loving heroine who won't be soon forgotten.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Library is a classic little treasure to read and share with the entire family, and is definitely a must for each and every home library.	2002-02-27
1641777:US	52793250	R272D35TSRCPC0	0399229264	782091601	Next Stop Grand Central	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Just Another Day at Grand Central.....	Author Maira Kalman takes us on a fascinating and entertaining  whirlwind tour of Grand Central Station, &quot;the busiest, fastest, biggest place there is.&quot;  Meet some of the people who work there from Lenny Maglione who's in charge of the whole building, Wanda who hears complaints, Ed, the lightbulb changer, and Marino Marino who makes oyster stew at the Oyster Bar, to Audrey in the information booth who will answer your questions, Melvin Johnson who helps you find the right train and step aboard, and Frank Chidester who runs the Lost and Found.  And watch the travelers, waiting, looking up and down and all around, rushing, eating, and going to work, or play, or appointments, or visits.  The action never stops at Grand Central because people need to come and go all day and all night long.....  Ms Kalman's creative text is full of wordplay, puns, energy, humor, and fun that will send imaginations soaring, and is only outdone by her bold, busy and engaging artwork.  Kids will love poring over all the marvelous detailed illustrations and are sure to find something new and exciting each and every time they open the book.  Perfect for youngsters 5 and older, Next Stop Grand Central is an innovative smorgasbord of fast-paced action and fun that transports the reader to this very &quot;grand&quot; place for the adventure of a lifetime.  &quot;Trains are trips.  And trips are adventures.  And adventures are new ideas and romance and you can't ever know what in the world will happen which is exactly why you are going.&quot;  Jump aboard and enjoy!	2002-02-25
1642341:US	52793250	R2AXJMBE61BAEQ	006443124X	109648371	The Philharmonic Gets Dressed (Reading Rainbow Books)	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Before the Music Begins.....	Friday night, it's growing dark outside, and most people are on their way home from work.  &quot;And here and there, uptown and downtown and across the bridges of the city, one hundred and five people are getting dressed to go to work.&quot;  Author Karla Kuskin follows the 105 members, ninety-two men and thirteen women, of the Philharmonic Orchestra as they prepare for their evening's work.  Watch them bathe, powder, shave and dress, the men in their tuxedos and the women in long black dresses and skirts.  See them put on their outerwear, coats, scarves, boots, hats, and gloves, pack up their cases of many shapes and sizes, say good-bye to family and friends, and head to the concert hall.  At 8:25, 104 men and women are on stage with their instruments, seated, and ready to perform.  Number 105, the conductor, enters, steps up on the podium, raises his baton and &quot;the music floats and rises.&quot;  &quot;It is 8:30 on Friday night, and the one hundred and five men and women dressed completely in black and white have gone to work turning the black notes on white pages into a symphony.  They are the members of the Philharmonic Orchestra, and their work is to play.  Beautifully.&quot;  Ms Kuskin and award winning illustrator, Marc Simont give readers a detailed, behind the scenes view of the musicians and all they do to get ready for an evening performance.  The simple and straightforward text is fascinating and engaging, and complemented by Mr Simont's expressive and humorous cartoon-like artwork that brings out the personality of each and every musician.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Philharmonic Gets Dressed is a delightful little treasure all budding musicians will beg to read again and again.  And as the conductor drops his baton and you turn the last page, you can almost hear the symphony begin.	2002-02-25
1642560:US	52793250	R2N8UJL0KK5NV3	0312269315	67747208	A Cold Christmas	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Cold to the Bitter End.....	Hamstead, Kansas had rarely seen a never-ending cold snap like this one.  With Christmas a few days away, wind chills put the temperature at about 30 below, townfolk were dropping like flies from the flu, and there just wasn't much holiday spirit in the air.  That was certainly true at Caley James' house.  She had caught the bug, big time, the house was falling apart, her ex was no help at all, her three kids were living in front of the television eating cold cereal, and that's when the furnace decided to die.  Life had definitely hit rock bottom, and just when she figures things couldn't get worse, her four year old daughter finds the furnace repairman, Tim Holiday, dead and badly burned in the basement.  Police Chief, Susan Wren, missing more than half her force to the flu, takes on this case herself, but immediately hits a brick wall.  Nothing about this murder makes sense.  Who was Tim Holiday, and why did he seem to be trying to keep his identity a secret?  Though she claims she'd never seen him before, what is his connection to Caley?  And why would anyone want him dead?  Add to that, two more possibly related murders, and Chief Wren has her hands full with a whole town full of suspects and too many unanswered questions.....  Charlene Weir is back with another installment of her Susan Wren mysteries and A Cold Christmas is definitely her best book so far.  This is a short, fast-paced, very readable novel full of atmosphere, smart, crisp writing, strong and engaging characters, riveting scenes, and enough twists and turns to keep readers guessing to the end.  Ms Weir does not skimp on the secondary story lines, and at times the plot veers off in too many directions and becomes somewhat confusing, but she pulls it all together and ties up the loose ends neatly with a cliff-hanger ending that will leave fans waiting and wondering.  So put up your feet and get comfortable, A Cold Christmas is an entertaining mystery you'll have to finish in one sitting.	2002-02-24
1642598:US	52793250	R3M4LRM7J6EXJM	0060294035	136371139	Rocks in His Head (Avenues)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Don't Be Afraid to Follow Your Dream.....	&quot;Some people collect stamps.  Some people collect coins or dolls or bottle caps.  When he was a boy, my father collected rocks.  When he wasn't doing chores at home or learning at school, he'd walk along stone walls and around old quarries, looking for rocks.  People said he had rocks in his pockets and rocks in his head.  He didn't mind.  It was usually true.&quot;  So begins Carol Otis Hurst's inspiring biography of her father and his lifelong passion for rocks and minerals.  In simple and gentle prose, we follow the story of his life, how he grew up and married, opened a successful filling station, lost his business during the depression, and finally while looking for odd jobs and work met Grace Johnson, the Director of the Science Museum.  Ms Johnson was so impressed with his knowledge, dedication, and love of rocks that she to gave him a steady job as night janitor at the museum so that he could work around rocks, and that as they say, was just the beginning.....  Ms Hurst's fascinating story is beautifully enhanced by James Stevenson's spare and touching pen and ink illustrations, done in quiet earth tones, that really capture the life and times of this very endearing man.  With an afterword to complete her uplifting story on the jacket flap, Rocks In His Head is an engaging and nostalgic little treasure that's perfect for youngsters 5-9, and is told with great insight and affection.  Never be afraid to follow your dream!	2002-02-24
1644129:US	52793250	R1JPS8ZGWX835X	0525467181	479680235	A Rumpus of Rhymes	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Love that Noise.....	&quot;Libraries have signs like these:/QUIET/DON'T TALK/SILENCE PLEASE/By day they're read by me and you./Mostly we do what the signs tell us to./Now imagine the library late at night./The windows are shut and the door's locked tight./But the words in the books are wide awake,/and the noisy words start to itch and ache!/They've been sitting in silence on printed pages,/not making a sound for ages and ages./Suddenly they can't bear the quiet./They burst out of the books in a rackety riot...&quot;  Poet Bobbi Katz has written a collection of 28 high spirited, rhyming, &quot;noisy&quot; poems full of rhythm, energy, humor, and motion that just beg to be performed and read aloud.  Each verse is filled with wordplay, alliteration, and especially onomatopoeia in colorful, inventive typefaces of all shapes and sizes, that help bring the creative words and descriptive sounds to life.  Susan Estelle Kwas' bold and bright cartoon-like illustrations are wonderfully expressive and add to the fun.  Together Katz and Kwas have authored both a feast for the ears and the eyes that will send little imaginations soaring.  Perfect for youngsters 5 and older, Rumpus Of Rhymes is a delightful, silly and innovative collection the whole family can share and enjoy, and a book that shouldn't be missed.	2002-02-23
1648106:US	52793250	RHH5QS326HR3B	0375811168	641414141	Gaspard in the Hospital (The Misadventures of Gaspard and Lisa)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Gaspard's Latest Adventure.....	Gaspard, an adorable black dog with a blue scarf, tells us all about his recent medical emergency.  He had a new key chain with a little race car attached.  &quot;Everyone at school wanted it, but it was MINE.&quot;  Gaspard was so afraid that a classmate would steal it, that he decided to hide it where no one could take it, in his mouth.  Of course, the unthinkable happens, and he swallows it.  Fortunately his teacher knew just what to do.  She called an ambulance and off Gaspard went to the hospital.....  Anne Gutman and Georg Hallensleben are back with another marvelous Gaspard and Lisa adventure.  Ms Gutman's simple and straightforward text is gentle and reassuring as Gaspard tells us all about his hospital stay, the ambulance ride and x-ray, the surgery that didn't hurt because he was asleep and dreaming, and doctors and nurses who knew just what to do and took good care of him.  &quot;They were right, I didn't feel a thing.  When I woke up, it was already night.  My parents were right there, and Mom gave me a great big package.&quot;  Mr Hallensleben's rich, lush, vibrant illustrations are cheerful and expressive.  Gaspard In The Hospital is just the latest in a terrific series for preschoolers and emerging readers.  Start at the beginning with Lisa's Airplane Trip and Gaspard On Vacation, and read them all.	2002-02-20
1649250:US	52793250	R1YO9UH3IACOYO	083359043X	791966576	Tim O'Toole And The Wee Folk: An Irish Tale (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (Picture Puffin Books)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	The Luck of the Irish.....	&quot;In a little cottage, on a little hill, at the end of a little lane in Donegal, lived Tim O'Toole and his wife, Kathleen.  Tim and Kate were so poor they had not a penny or a potato between them.  Their children ate porridge for supper.  Even the mice were thin from want of food and the cat wouldn't bother with chasing the creatures.&quot;  So begins Gerald McDermott's Irish folktale, Tim O'Toole And The Wee Folk.  Finally Kathleen had had enough, and without even a crumb left to eat, sent her husband out to look for work.  Tim O'Toole walked the entire county, but had no luck.  But as soon as he sat down to rest, &quot;he heard the faint sound of merry piping and lilting voices raised in song and laughter.&quot;  Leprechauns!  Now Tim knew his luck had changed, for &quot;whoever spies the wee folk in the light of day can demand their treasure&quot;.  And they rewarded him richly with a goose that lays golden eggs.  Unfortunately, on the way home, Tim stopped for the night at McGoon's farm.  Unable to control himself, he bragged a bit about his good fortune, and while he was asleep, those nasty McGoons replaced his golden goose with one of their own.....  Mr McDermott's wonderfully engaging text is full of magic and humor and begs to be read aloud with a lilting brogue.  His amusing, colorful, and expressive illustrations complement the tale and add to all the fun.  And as the wee folk come to Tim's rescue and save the day, kids and adults alike will be cheering and laughing out loud.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Tim O'Toole And The Wee Folk is a joyous, good-time, entertaining read that will bring out a little bit of Irish in each of us.	2002-02-19
1649332:US	52793250	R3BXLBGJ1JR05P	0439192749	841995718	The Orphan Singer	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Voice of an Angel.....	The musical Dolci family was very, very poor, and when their daughter, Nina, was only a baby, she began to sing with the voice of an angel.  Because they had no money for music lessons and wanted their child to fulfill her destiny, they left her at the ospedalo, a special orphanage where foundling girls received the best musical training in Europe.  The ospedalo was famous for its choir and in no time, Nina was an accomplished musician, singing the &quot;impossible high notes and endless arpeggios.&quot;  Though they kept their identity a secret, and pretended to be strangers, the Dolcis visited little Nina in the reception room for admirers every week after each ospedalo concert.  She grew very close to them, especially their son, Antonio, and eagerly awaited their visits.  Then one evening, the Dolcis didn't arrive.  Word came that Antonio was very sick and dying.  No one was allowed to ever leave the opsedalo, to do so meant expulsion.  But Nina had to see her beloved Antonio and snuck out in the middle of the night to make her way across Venice to the Dolci home.  &quot;If only she could sing to him now, wouldn't he hear her love and get well.....&quot;  Take a slice of eighteenth century history, add a little music, drama, and mystery, and you have Emily Arnold McCully's fascinating and intriguing story, The Orphan Singer.  Her compelling and engaging text, complete with happily-ever-after ending is beautifully enhanced by her marvelously evocative and expressive illustrations that capture Venice and the ospedalo in strikingly vivid detail.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, the story includes an author's note to further explain and expand on the history and importance of the ospedalo to the musical life of Venice, and is a masterpiece that definitely shouldn't be missed.	2002-02-19
1649747:US	52793250	R3SG8RNC0632RD	0823414256	130053883	The Last Snake in Ireland: A Story About St. Patrick	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Snakes...Begone!	&quot;Everyone knows that Patrick sent the snakes out of Ireland because they were so naughty folks were sick and tired of having them around.  He'd tried for years to make them behave, but they just laughed at him.  Then he found a gang of them teasing his old lame dog, Finbar, and he lost his temper.&quot;  Enough was enough.  Patrick rang his magic bell and like the Pied Piper, charmed every snake from every corner of Ireland, and led them all into the sea.  All except one, &quot;the biggest, oldest, sneakiest snake in all of Ireland.&quot;  And that nasty old snake vowed to make Patrick's life miserable.  Wherever Patrick went, the snake was there to torment him, peeking in windows, hanging from tree branches and tapping him on the head, stealing drinks from his mug when he wasn't looking, and even curling up in his bed.  This rascally old snake had to go, and finally after thinking and thinking, Patrick came up with a plan.....  Sheila MacGill-Callahan takes an old Irish legend, adds a little silly fun and a lot of humor, and comes up with a thoroughly  entertaining and charming story that shouldn't be missed.  Her engaging text, complete with lilting Irish rhythm begs to be read aloud, and is enhanced by Will Hillenbrand's bright, bold artwork.  Together, this dynamic duo weaves a magical tale, with a surprise ending, that brings out the Irish in all of us.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Last Snake In Ireland is a rip roarin' good read that's just right for St Patrick's Day, and is just as enjoyable any other day of the year too.	2002-02-19
1650758:US	52793250	R3TN7CAKK2LDN3	0786709685	212762357	Save the Last Dance for Me: A Sam McCain Mystery	Books	5	1	1	N	N	McCain's Back and Better than Ever.....	It's the summer of 1960 in Black River Falls, Iowa, and Richard Nixon, on the campaign trail for president, is scheduled to stop in this little mid-western burg for a speech and reception.  Fledgling lawyer and part-time private investigator, Sam McCain's boss, town heavy, Judge Esme Ann Whitney, is hosting the Vice President's visit, and she wants her town to shine like the middle American jewel it is.  Unfortunately, the murder of a local snake-handling, Jew and Catholic hating, fundamentalist  preacher, tends to put a real damper on the judge's plans.  Police Chief, Cliffie Sykes, is totally useless in the crime solving department, so she orders McCain to get to work, and clear up this nasty case before Nixon's arrival.  &quot;My Lord, we'll look like hillbillies.  Snakes and Ozark faith healers.  Good grief.&quot;  But before he can even begin his investigation a second murder takes place, the local Protesant minister is gunned down in his garage.  McCain's convinced these two crimes are related, and as he begins to dig, secrets start popping up all over town.....  Ed Gorman is back with another delightful and nostalgic romp through yesteryear, with his well drawn, wacky and quirky cast of intriguing, original characters.  His fast-paced plot really captures the essence of the '50s, and is entertaining, and full of marvelously vivid, laugh-out-loud scenes.  But it's Mr Gorman's witty writing and wise-cracking, irreverent dialogue that really makes this novel stand out.  Save The Last Dance For Me is short, sweet, engaging, and thoroughly enjoyable from the first page to the satisfying last.  If you're new to Sam McCain and company, start at the beginning with The Day The Music Died, and read them all.  If you're already a fan, Ed Gorman doesn't disappoint with his latest installment.  This is a series that just keeps getting better and better.	2002-02-18
1651383:US	52793250	R9HHFZBMJX6JR	0525461671	44102009	The World of King Arthur and His Court: People, Places, Legend, and Lore	Books	5	13	13	N	N	King Arthur Lives.....	For those entranced by the magical stories of King Arthur, Excalibur, the Sword in the Stone, Lancelot, Guinevere, and the Knights of the Round Table, Kevin Crossley-Holland has written the quintessential book detailing the life and times of this charismatic hero and his court.  Beautifully and painstakingly researched, and rich in history, trivia, fun facts, anecdotes, and legend, Mr Crossley-Holland brings medieval England and Camelot to life.  Hear the many stories, among them Merlin, The Sword in the Stone, the Lady of the Lake, Sir Mordred, Marie de France, and Morgan le Fay.  Learn the ways of the court and castle life, dressing, arms and armor, tournaments and tilting, love, quests and adventures, magic and magicians, troubadours, art, and so much more.  His engaging and entertaining text is enhanced by Peter Malone's marvelously vivid artwork, and together these two transport the reader back in time to the enchanting world of chivalrous knights, lovely and fair maidens, and evil villains.  Perfect for young lovers of the Arthurian legend, 12 and older, who have begun to ask the hard questions...&quot;Did King Arthur exist?  Was there really a court called Camelot?  Where exactly was Arthur's kingdom? When did he rule?  And what was he like?&quot;  Kevin Crossley-Holland gives the definitive answer...&quot;To begin with, we scarcely need to know.  When we first meet Arthur, we are caught up in a long dream we hope will never end.&quot;  The legend lives.  Believe and Enjoy!	2002-02-17
1651830:US	52793250	R3LCISO9QV5K7B	0060278730	641264124	Sleepy Book	Books	5	2	3	N	N	It's Time For Bed.....	Every living being sleeps, from the bear in his dark cave, fish among the water ferns, and horses standing up switching their tails, to the snowy crane who sleeps standing on just one leg,  turtles inside their shells, seals with their flippers against blocks of ice, and of course little boys and girls.  Originally published in 1958, Charlotte Zolotow's Sleepy Book is as fresh and wonderful today as it was over 40 years ago.  Her simple, gentle text is full of imagery and magic, and complemented by brand new, evocative illustrations.  Artist, Stefano Vitale, has really captured the essence of Ms Zolotow's poetry with engaging pictures of sleeping animals in quiet, subdued tones.  Together, word and art create a soothing and comforting bedtime story that will lull little ones off to dreamland.  &quot;...but little boys/ and girls,/ when the night/ comes/ and the wind/ whispers gently/ in the trees/ and the stars/ sparkle and shine,/ sleep/ warm under/ their blankets/ in their/ beds.&quot;	2002-02-17
1652601:US	52793250	R2J73JVTDEWCT4	0802787207	818575604	The Sound That Jazz Makes	Books	5	6	6	N	N	All That Jazz.....	&quot;This is Africa where rhythm abounds/and music springs from nature sounds,/played on a drum carved from a tree/that grew in a forest of ebony.&quot;  From the African jungle and slave ships, to Harlem, New Orleans, and even today's rappers, Carole Boston Weatherford introduces the sound that jazz makes.  Her lyrical and engaging rhyming text is full of energy, motion, and passion, and beautifully complemented by award winning illustrator, Eric Velzsquez's vibrant and expressive oil paintings.  Together they've authored a powerful and evocative feast for the ears and eyes that traces the roots and development of this unique and totally American musical art form.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, &quot;JAZZ is a downbeat born in our nation,/chords of struggle and jubilation,/bursting forth from hearts set free/in notes that echo history./This is the sound that jazz makes!&quot;	2002-02-16
1652837:US	52793250	RTDZX7M1AWPO1	0859531821	732335486	The Little Mouse, The Red Ripe Strawberry, and The Big Hungry Bear	Books	5	80	83	N	N	Hello Little Mouse.  What Are You Doing?	What's a little, strawberry loving mouse going to do to keep a big, hungry, strawberry loving bear from eating his fruit?  Especially when &quot;the big, hungry Bear can smell a red, ripe strawberry a mile away...&quot;  Well, with a little clever help from the reader, this turns out to be an easy problem to solve.....  Don and Audrey Wood have authored an entertaining, interactive treasure that's sure to charm and delight kids from 1 to 91.  Their simple text is joyous and engaging,  But this is really a story told through the marvelous illustrations.  Mr Wood's bold, bright, and amusing artwork stars a most endearing little furry friend, and youngsters will love all the captivating facial expressions and wonderful, humorous detail in each two page spread.  The Little Mouse, The Red Ripe Strawberry, And The Big Hungry Bear is a masterpiece little ones will beg to read again and again, and a timeless classic to share with friends, family, and future generations.	2002-02-16
1654619:US	52793250	RR29AXGGTO4F6	0399234764	554259382	The Cod's Tale	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The Fish that Changed the World.....	It's hard to believe that anyone could write an interesting and informative book detailing the life and history of the cod fish, or more to the point, that it could hold your interest, but that's exactly what Mark Kurlansky has done.  His fascinating and engaging narrative, based on his adult book, Cod:  A Biography Of The Fish That Changed The World, explores this once plentiful fish's place in history, from the Vikings, Basques, and European explorers, to Colonial America, the slave trade, American Revolution, and the technological inventions of the twentieth century that changed fishing and processing forever.  Written in an easy to read, conversational style, Mr Kurlansky's intriguing story is part biology, part history, part sociology, and is chock full of interesting fun facts, trivia, humorous anecdotes, maps, recipes, and a marvelous time line that runs through the entire book and puts all this information in perspective.  S.D. Schindler's bright, bold, and charming artwork is clever and entertaining, and kids will enjoy poring over the busy illustrations, and finding all the wonderful, special details.  Perfect for youngsters 8 and older, The Cod's Tale takes you on a whirlwind adventure, and a very unique thousand year journey with a most unromantic, though endearing  fish.  This is non-fiction for kids at its very best, and a book that definitely shouldn't be missed.	2002-02-14
1655600:US	52793250	RMQDHQNI51GXP	0531068285	587303659	Beethoven Lives Upstairs	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Life With Beethoven.....	&quot;...I write, Uncle, because something terrible has happened.  A madman has moved into our house.&quot;  Young Christoph can't believe his family's misfortune with their new boarder.  Mr Beethoven has rented the upstairs rooms, and the terrible noises begin at dawn.  There's loud pounding and howling, stomping and crashing.  Beethoven has four pianos, some without legs sitting right on the floor so that he can &quot;hear&quot; the vibrations of his music.  His room is a mess, papers scattered everywhere, dirty dishes and clothes on every surface, and he writes on the walls.  He walks the streets humming and growling, and waving his arms.  Christoph is mortified, angry, and embarrassed as he asks his uncle...&quot;I beg you to tell my mother to send Mr Beethoven away.&quot;  But as the months and then years go by, Christoph's letters begin to change.  He develops compassion and tolerance for this eccentric musical genius who lives upstairs, that slowly turns into respect, admiration, and true friendship.....  Barbara Nichol and Scott Cameron have authored a creative and inventive story, written as correspondence between uncle and nephew, that combines history, music, and actual events during the three years Beethoven wrote his Ninth Symphony in Vienna.  Christoph's intriguing and compelling letters are full of drama and tension as he tells his uncle what it's like to live with the deaf and tormented composer.  His uncle, also a musician, writes back giving Christoph insight and understanding into Beethoven's life and times and famous temper.  Ms Nichol's engaging and entertaining text is spellbinding and enhanced by Mr Cameron's dark, lush oil paintings.  Together word and art transport you back to the 1820s, and allows the reader to spy on Beethoven as he works.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, Beethoven Lives Upstairs is an evocative and fascinating adventure about a remarkable composer that is sure to whet the appetite of budding musicians, and send them lookingfor more.	2002-02-13
1655878:US	52793250	R3DUP1QWH77W61	0395960525	163356033	The Story of the Incredible Orchestra: An Introduction to Musical Instruments and the Symphony Orchestra	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Let's Make Music.....	Come meet the orchestra, and learn about the fascinating history and evolution of this large ensemble, its individual instruments, and the wonderful music it plays.  From its predecessor, the Beaters, Tooters, and Strings, to the Baroque, Classical, and Romantic periods, and the modern orchestras of today, Bruce Koscielniak takes the reader on a marvelous and inviting 400 year journey.  His engaging and entertaining text is written in an easy to read, conversational style, and is full of historical information, fun facts, and trivia.  Busy, detailed illustrations enhance the text, and contain additional facts, definitions, diagrams, and other notes of interest, and youngsters will enjoy exploring all the artwork, finding something new and exciting every time they open the book.  Perfect for kids 7 and older, The Story Of The Incredible Orchestra is a creative and innovative book that's sure to whet the appetite and peak the interest of budding musicians everywhere.  As Mr Koscielniak tells us, &quot;We've seen the orchestra develop over the past four hundred years, always with a blend of ideas old and new.  Without a doubt, the incredible orchestra, whatever its shape, will roll onward-to the great enjoyment of listeners along the way.&quot;  Read, learn, and enjoy!	2002-02-13
1656613:US	52793250	RK69WCJP3QMAZ	0812064097	90709803	Camille and the Sunflowers	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Meet Vincent van Gogh.....	&quot;Where Camille lived, the sunflowers grew so high they looked like real suns - a whole field of burning yellow suns.&quot;  So begins Laurence Anholt's engaging picture book about the relationship between the postman's son and Vincent van Gogh.  As the story unfolds, Camille and his family befriend and help this strange painter.  &quot;Vincent came to live in the yellow house at the end of Camille's street.  He had no money and no friends.&quot;  Vincent painted day and night, portraits of Camille's family, the sunflower fields, even the starry night.  &quot;But no matter how hard Vincent worked, he could never sell any of his paintings.&quot;  His work was never appreciated, and in the end the townfolk told him to pack up his paints and leave.  &quot;Listen Camille,&quot; said his father, &quot;people often laugh at things that are different, but I've got a feeling that one day they will learn to love Vincent's paintings.&quot;.....  Based on actual events, this simple and evocative story has a powerful message of tolerance and compassion for those who appear odd or unusual, and march to a different drummer.  Mr Anholt's gentle and empathetic text is complemented by his lovely and expressive watercolor illustrations, and include reproductions of some of van Gogh's most famous paintings.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Camille And The Sunflowers is an inspiring introduction to the artist, Vincent van Gogh, and his paintings, that shouldn't be missed.	2002-02-13
1657217:US	52793250	RJ0WVFUTQXPYW	0439293049	739798228	One Monday	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wild, Windy Weather.....	&quot;One Monday on Annabelle's farm, it was so windy, the tin roof banged like thunder.  By afternoon the pigs' curly tails were straightened out like rulers...&quot;  So begins Amy Huntington's delightful and very descriptive picture book, One Monday.  As the week progresses, so do the wind gusts.  Carrots and turnips twist out of the garden, sunflower heads spin off like flying saucers, frogs surf on the waves in the water trough, and the big black spots blow off the cows.  Finally on Sunday, the wind blows itself right out of town, and everything appears to be quiet and back to normal, until you turn the page.  &quot;The next day, Monday, it rained so hard...&quot;  Ms Huntington's simple and understated text is full of energy and motion.  But she lets her bold, bright and expressive artwork really tell the story, and little ones will enjoy poring over the illustrations and finding all the charming, humorous, and silly details in each two page spread.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, One Monday is an engaging and entertaining treasure that shouldn't be missed.	2002-02-12
1657640:US	52793250	R1RXMB163R8IJV	0553801317	27255441	A Darker Justice	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Tight, Tense, and Compelling.....	It looks like someone is trying to kill off the federal judiciary.  One judge has been murdered each month for the last eleven months, each in a different way.  The FBI and local police are stumped.  There are no clues, no forensics, no witnesses, and no suspects.  Now there's only one circuit left untouched, the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, and the FBI thinks Judge Irene Hannah could be the next target.  Enter Deckard County Assistant District Attorney, Mary Crow.  When her mother was brutally raped and murdered thirteen years ago, Irene Hannah was more than there for her.  She helped her deal with and accept the terrible loss, and find direction and a new life in the law.  Now the feds are asking for Mary's help.  It seems the very stubborn and principled Judge Hannah has refused federal protection.  Agent in Charge, Daniel Safer, wants Mary Crow to work with him, and change the judge's mind, and of course, she's only too glad to do it.  She can't imagine her life without her friend and mentor.  But when Irene is kidnapped on Mary's watch, she defies the authorities, and sets out on her own to find the judge before it's too late, and she's willing to risk everything, even her own life to bring Irene Hannah back home.....  Sallie Bissell has written a fast paced and suspenseful thriller, complete with twists, turns, and more than a few surprises, that begs to be read in one sitting.  Her crisp and eloquent writing is full of detail, and atmosphere, the intricate story line tight, tense, and compelling, and her scenes vivid and riveting.  But it's her marvelously complex and intriguing characters that really make this novel stand out, and once you've been introduced to empathetic Mary Crow, you won't be able to put this thriller down.  This is the second installment of a superb series.  If you're new to author, Sallie Bissell, start at the beginning with In The Forest Of Harm.  If you're already a fan, A Darker Justice doesn't disappoint.	2002-02-12
1665252:US	52793250	R3VF3B0VEAYVFI	0525464662	763219780	Feathers, Flaps, & Flops: Fabulous Early Fliers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Dream of Human Flight.....	Do you know who invented the hot-air balloon, or mastered flight in the dirigible?  Who was the first pilot to fly across America, or cross the Atlantic from east to west?  To find the answers to these questions, you need to meet the aviators, those dreamers, daredevils, and inventors who were always looking to find that &quot;momentary escape from the eternal custody of earth.  As author, Bo Zaunders, tells us in his informative and intriging introduction...&quot;Throughout history, people have gone to extraordinary lengths pursuing the dream of human flight.&quot;  They strapped on wings, built elaborate contraptions, and risked life and limb, all to defy gravity, rise above the ground and fly like birds.  Mr Zaunders leaves the very well known and famous, like the Wright brothers, Charles Lindbergh, and Amelia Earhart in his introduction, and goes on to profile seven lesser known, though no less fascinating aviators, The Montfolfier brothers, Alberto Santos-Dumont, Cal Rodgers, Bessie Coleman, Jimmy Doolittle, Beryl Markham, and &quot;Wrong Way&quot; Corrigan.  Each easy to read and engaging chapter is full of fun facts, history, drama, and humor, and complemented by Roxie Munro's bold, bright and colorful artwork, which enhances each biographical portrait, and adds to all the fun.  Perfect for youngsters 9-12, Feathers, Flaps, &amp; Flops is an entertaining and inspiring read that's sure to whet the appetites of all young aviation enthusiasts.	2002-02-06
1667444:US	52793250	R22VRSHHUEU69U	0689801122	974756382	Sophie's Masterpiece	Books	5	3	3	N	N	&quot;Sophie Was No Ordinary House Spider.....&quot;	&quot;Sophie was an artist.  She spun webs more wondrous than anyone had ever seen.  Her playmates called her incredible.  Her mama was proud.  Someday, they said, she's going to spin a masterpiece...&quot;  So when the time came to leave home and go out into the world, Sophie packed her bags and moved into Beekman's Boardinghouse.  She was so excited.  This drab, dull house needed all her talents, and Sophie went right to work weaving a web of curtains for the front room, &quot;blending a golden thread of sun into her silk.&quot;  But it was not to be.  No one appreciated Sophie's artistry, or generosity, and as time passed, and Sophie grew very old in spider years, she finds herself up at the very top of the house living in a young woman's knitting basket.  This woman is a weaver too.  First she knits booties, then a baby sweater.  But she doesn't have enough yarn for a baby blanket, and so even though she is very old, and frail and weak, Sophie decides to spin the blanket herself.  Maybe this blanket will be her masterpiece.....  The dynamic duo of Eileen Spinelli and Jane Dyer have authored a warmhearted and uplifting picture book, with a gentle message of generosity and compassion that won't be lost on young readers.  Ms Spinelli's charming and engaging text is  magical, and beautifully complemented by Ms Dyer's endearing little spider, and expressive and detailed artwork.  Together word and art tell a simple, yet powerful story with great insight, wisdom and humor.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Sophie's Masterpiece is a lovely and affectionate treasure the whole family can read and share together, and a sure classic in the years to come.	2002-02-04
1667671:US	52793250	R264BC6P7PWVT3	0399234675	40143100	Jamie O'Rourke and the Pooka	Books	5	9	10	N	N	No Good Deed Goes Unpunished.....	Jamie O'Rourke is the laziest man in all of Ireland.  When his wife, Eileen, visits her sister to help with the new baby, Jamie figures the easiest way to keep the house nice and clean is to stay in bed and rest all week.  But when his friends come over with a jug of cider to keep him company, and help him eat all the good food Eileen prepared before she left, they leave quite a mess for Jamie to clean up.  &quot;...But the mere sight of the messy cottage made him the most tired man in all of Ireland, as well as the laziest.  So he went to bed...&quot;  In the middle of the night, Jamie was awakened by a noise.  There in the cottage was a donkey-like creature, a pooka, standing on two legs, cleaning and washing and sweeping.  Jamie couldn't believe his good fortune.  Night after night, all week long, his friends came to have a fine old time eating and laughing and making a terrible mess.  And every night after Jamie had gone to sleep, the pooka came and cleaned everything up for him.  But never fear, this hard working pooka is just too good to last, and Jamie O'Rourke is about to find out the hard way on the night before Eileen comes home.....  Tomie dePaola is back with another delightful and entertaining Jamie O'Rourke misadventure.  His easy to read, charming text, based on an old Irish folk tale is only outdone by his very engaging and familiar artwork, and youngsters will enjoy all the wonderful facial expressions and humorous detail in each picture.  With an author's note at the end explaining the pooka in Irish folklore, Jamie O'Rourke And The Pooka is an endearing, good time read that's perfect for St Patrick's Day, or any other day of the year.  Tomie dePaola is an American treasure.  You can never go wrong with one of his books.	2002-02-04
1668419:US	52793250	R3VK2VD8Z5GK41	0671010123	148418160	Final Jeopardy (Alexandra Cooper Mysteries)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Meet Alexandra Cooper.....	New York City Assistant District Attorney in charge of sex crimes, Alexandra Cooper, couldn't believe her eyes.  There on the front page of the Post was her obituary under the headline &quot;SEX PROSECUTOR SLAIN-FBI, STATE TROOPERS JOIN SEARCH FOR KILLER.&quot;  What the police didn't know, was that she had loaned her secluded, Martha's Vinyard beach house to beautiful actress and friend, Isabella Lascar.  Isabella had said she needed a solitary retreat to read scripts and regroup.  The shooting had taken place along the house's winding drive, and the shotgun blast to the face had made identification impossible, so the authorities naturally assumed it had to be Alex.  But who was the real target, Alex or Isabella?  As Alex and her favorite sidekick, Homicide Detective, Mike Chapman, begin their investigation, they wonder if this could this be a case of mistaken identity, and if so, was Alex in danger, and would the murderer try again?  If not, who else, if anyone, knew that Isabella was going to be staying at the beach house, and why would they want her dead.....?  Linda Fairstein has written a well-paced, legal thriller that sets you on the edge of your seat, and promises to keep you there until the very last page.  Her well crafted, compelling plot is full of twists and turns, intriguing scenes and strong, interesting characters.  But it's her indepth knowledge of the legal system and D.A's office, and her expertise in prosecuting sex crimes, that really makes this novel stand out.  With a suspenseful ending that brings all the story lines together, and ties them up into a very satisfying package, Final Jeopardy is the beginning of a terrific series that mystery/thriller fans shouldn't miss.  So turn off the phone, and lock the door, Alexandra Cooper and company are about to keep you up reading all night.	2002-02-03
1668563:US	52793250	R9H3VF26SW6NL	015201649X	679952212	My Name Is Georgia: A Portrait by Jeanette Winter	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An Artist Who Saw the World in a Unique Way.....	Georgia O'Keeffe was always different...&quot;I did things other people don't do.&quot;  She didn't dress like the other young girls, or wear her hair in braids, and she was content to be alone...&quot;I was satisfied to be all by myself.&quot;  From an early age knew she wanted to be an artist...&quot;Maybe I could make something beautiful...&quot;  Jeanette Winter takes us on the journey of Georgia O'Keeffe's remarkable life, from her birth in Wisconsin in 1887, to art school in Chicago and New York, and then on to her years of painting in Texas, New York City, and finally the New Mexican desert.  Her simple, spare prose, complete with quotations from Georgia's own writings, is engaging, and complemented by charming and evocative illustrations that enhance the story.  Georgia O'Keeffe loved the sky, sunset, red hills, flowers, and bones, and she painted the world around her BIG, so that people would see it the way she did.  Perfect for kids 6-10, My Name Is Georgia is a lovely introductory biography that will whet the appetite of young art lovers everywhere, and brings home the important message...Never be afraid to follow your dream.	2002-02-03
1668948:US	52793250	R3GWUK2HBW2ZUA	053130325X	789675614	Katie And The Sunflowers	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A Postimpressionist Experience.....	It's begun to rain, so Katie and her grandma can't finish working in the garden, and decide to go to the museum.  As soon as they arrive, Grandma sits down for a little rest, so Katie scampers off to see what interesting and beautiful paintings she can find today.  She likes Sunflowers by Vincent Van Gogh, the way the flowers look full of seeds, all dry and crunchy.  Katie reaches into the picture to touch them and knocks over the vase, spilling the sunflowers all over the museum floor.  Before she can clean up the mess, and put the flowers back into the painting, she hears giggles coming from the next frame, and that's when all the fun begins.....  James Mayhew is back, and those who loved Katie And The Mona Lisa and Katie Meets The Impressionists, are in for another wonderful romp through the art museum, this time with the postimpressionists.  Follow Katie as she meets and enlists the help of Breton Girls Dancing by Paul Gauguin, chases a dog into Vincent van Gogh's Cafe Terrace At Night, wreaks havoc with Paul Cezanne's Still Life With Apples And Oranges, and steps into Gauguin's Tahitian Pastorals to go wading at the beach.  Mr Mayhew's simple and charming text is full of energy, humor, and fun, and complemented by his marvelously creative and engaging artwork.  Little art lovers will enjoy all the silly antics in this charming chain-of-events story, as Katie works to finally set everything right again at the end.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Katie And The Sunflowers includes a short afterword detailing the postimpressionist period, and further information about each of the paintings in the story.  This is a picture book that's sure to peak everyone's interest, and send you and your family to the nearest museum for an adventure of your own.	2002-02-03
1669042:US	52793250	R31QN0860KEX5I	0374368430	843809178	Shooting For The Moon: The Amazing Life and Times of Annie Oakley	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Aim High.....	Stephen Krensky details &quot;the amazing life and times of Annie Oakley&quot; in this engaging and creative picture book biography.  From her hard and impoverished childhood in Ohio, to her young adult years as a sharpshooter and entertainer in Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show, the story of her life is fascinating and full of drama.  Annie was resourceful and tough as nails.  She knew what she wanted, and made it happen through hard work and determination.  Mr Krensky's interesting and informative text, draws on Annie Oakley's own autobiographical writings, and is enhanced by Bernie Fuchs' marvelously expressive and evocative oil paintings done in dark and subdued earth tones.  Together word and art paint a portrait of a remarkable woman who never let anyone or anything get her down for long.  With an afterword to fill in the gaps and complete the story of Annie Oakley's amazing life, Shooting For The Moon is perfect for youngsters 5-9, and is definitely an introductory biography that shouldn't be missed.  As Annie always told everyone...&quot;Aim at a high mark and you will hit it.  No, not the first time, nor the second, and maybe not the third.  But keep on aiming and keep on shooting.  Finally you'll hit the bull's-eye of success, for only practice will make you perfect.&quot;	2002-02-03
1673448:US	52793250	RFOFT3NAOAOVH	0689841493	948046328	Gandhi	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Mahatma...the Great Soul.....	Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi was a shy, frightened, and deeply religious child, who even after he married, at thirteen, had to sleep with the lights on.  He was a poor student, barely graduating from high school and college.  While in London, studying law, he came to realize that he was not happy with all the trappings of wealth, and decided to live a simpler and more self-reliant life.  With his law degree in hand, he moved his family to South Africa, and for the first time experienced racism, and hatred for his brown skin firsthand.  Instead of going back to India, he drew strength from the challenges of living and working in an unfriendly country.  &quot;He began to look on every difficulty as an opportunity for service to others.  This was to be the secret of his success for the rest of his life.&quot;  Author Demi has written an eloquent and evocative biography that details the life of this extraordinary man as he struggles to bring change to India's social and political policies, and win independence from British rule.  She explains how Gandhi was &quot;...determined to root out the disease of prejudice, but never to yield to violence and never to use violence against others.&quot;  His tireless and passionate work, through non-violent marches, fasts, nationwide strikes, and civil disobedience, led to the liberation of India from Great Britain, and the end of the caste system.  Demi's passionate and expressive text is beautifully complemented by elegant and exquisite illustrations, and together word and art paint a memorable portrait of a unique individual who left his mark on the world for generations to come.  With an author's note at the end to enhance the text, augment lessons, and further discussions, Ghandhi is a superb and inspirational biographical starting point for youngsters 8-12, that shouldn't be missed.	2002-01-30
1673839:US	52793250	R3OVWRBZHGQ3OK	0735815402	535421960	Sailing Home: A Story of a Childhood at Sea	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Life Aboard Ship.....	Meet the Madsen family, Father, Mother, Albert, Dagmar, baby Ena, and our narrator, Mathilda.  They lived aboard a four-masted sailing ship, captained by their father, that carried cargo all over the world in the late 1800s.  As Mathilda tells us, their accommodations were luxurious, large bedrooms, fine furnishings, and even a marble fireplace in the main saloon, and their life aboard ship was rich with adventure and full of fun.  &quot;Unlike most homes, our didn't stay put.  At night, the ship kept moving, so every morning we woke up far away from where we'd gone to sleep.&quot;  They had the huge deck for play, a menagerie of pets, including a pig, kangaroo, mongoose, and monkey, astronomy lessons by night, and geography lessons as they sailed the world by day.  Theirs was a unique and fascinating life, and when in port they always wanted to know, &quot;When do we sail?  When are we going back out to sea?&quot;   Gloria and Ted Rand have authored an intriguing and informative story, based on entries from the journal kept by Ena and her father, Captain Madsen.  The engaging text is gripping and full of emotion, and beautifully enhanced by Mr Rand's expressive artwork.  Together, word and art pull you into the story, and transport you to the high seas and another time and place.  With an afterword and photo gallery to complete and personalize the story, Sailing Home is an amazing and entertaining book that's perfect for youngsters 7-10, or as a read-aloud story the entire family can share.	2002-01-30
1674047:US	52793250	R1VK3IAGOFEQTZ	1563979306	591015972	Little Granny Quarterback	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Granny Whiteoak Saves the Day.....	Granny Whiteoak remembers the good old days when she was a big football star, the trophies, the awards, and all the press coverage.  Now, sitting up in bed, she hears on TV that her team is in big trouble.  She jumps up, grabs her cane, and dives into the television set, landing on the football field, ready to play.  Not to worry, Granny's here to save the day.....  Bill Martin Jr and Michael Sampson have written a rip roarin', high spirited picture book that will have little sports fans cheering, as Granny runs onto the field in her bedroom slippers, and takes charge of the game.  Their joyous, rhyming, energetic text is just perfect for reading aloud, and complemented by Michael Chesworth's charming and amusing illustrations.  Youngsters 3-7 will enjoy the hilarious details and marvelous facial expressions in each picture.  Be ready to laugh and cheer, each and every time you open this book as Granny scores one for the home team.  Little Granny Quarterback is a winner!	2002-01-30
1675522:US	52793250	R32ZBVLODTO2Y2	0525467874	54769480	The Tin Forest	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Imagination Makes Your Dreams Come True.....	&quot;There was once a wide, windswept place near nowhere and close to forgotten, that was filled with all the things that no one wanted.  Right in the middle was a small house, with small windows, that looked out on other people's garbage and bad weather.  In the house lived an old man...&quot;  The old man had a big dream.  Every night when he went to bed, he dreamed he lived in a lush, wonderful forest, full of  exotic plants, flowers, and trees, wild animals, and beautiful birds.  But each morning when he woke up, nothing had changed.  Then one day he noticed a broken light fixture, and realized how much it looked like a flower, and an idea began to bloom.  Soon all the trash, garbage, and bent metal pieces began to take shape as the old man created his own &quot;tin forest&quot;, just the way he remembered it in his mind.  And then one day, a beautiful bird landed on one of his tin branches.....  Helen Ward and Wayne Anderson have authored an engaging and whimsical story, with a gentle message, that won't be lost on young readers.  Ms Ward's simple, lyrical, yet eloquent text is full of imagery and magic, and beautifully complemented by Mr Anderson's evocative and detailed artwork that blooms from dull sad grays to vibrant gold and warm, joyful colors.  Together word and art will send little imaginations soaring as the old man's dream becomes real.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Tin Forest is a masterpiece to treasure and share, and a reminder that with imagination and hope, all your dreams can come true.	2002-01-29
1676307:US	52793250	RFPMM0IG907QQ	0385746199	243051970	No More Kissing	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Kissing...What's a Little Monkey to Do?	Poor Momo...he's decided there's just too much kissing going on here in the jungle and it's got to stop.  Everytime he turns around there's someone kissing hello, kissing good-bye, kissing good morning and goodnight.  If you get hurt, someone wants to kiss your boo-boo, and make it all better.  And if you have a disagreement, they want to kiss and make up.  &quot;Why does there have to be so much kissing?  It goes on everywhere, all over the place, especially mommies kissing babies.  I wish no one had invented kissing.&quot;  But all that is about to change when Momo's mommy brings his new baby brother home.....  Emma Chichester Clark has authored a clever and entertaining story, starring an endearing little friend, that is sure to charm and delight all those who often suffer little Momo's plight.  Her simple and witty text is complemented by bright and engaging jungle scenes, full of humorous detail and marvelous facial expressions, and little ones, tired of being constantly smooched by relatives and parent's friends will easily identify and empathize with Momo as he tries to avoid  the often inevitable kissing ordeals.  No More Kissing is perfect for preschoolers as young as two, and with its sweet and amusing twist at the end, is sure to put a big smile on everyone's face.	2002-01-28
1677357:US	52793250	RP3WTMGZ4AISB	0689823940	195699394	tub-boo-boo	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Good to the Last Drop.....	As sister Lucy Hathaway reports, it was 4:15 P.M. when brother, Henry, walked in the back door.  He was filthy, and Mother immediately ordered him upstairs to take a bath.  A little water, a lot of Double Bubble Bubble Bath, some splishing and splashing, and a spanking clean Henry was ready to come out and dry off.  OOPS!  That's when all the trouble began.  Henry made a boo-boo, a tub boo-boo.  &quot;I just wanted to stop one drippy drop.  Slow the flow with my little big toe.  And now-I'm stuck!&quot;  Mother is sure she can set that big toe free.  &quot;She was absolutely sure, positively positive that if she could just wiggle her fingers up into the spigot and wrangle them around Henry's little big toe...&quot;  She takes off her shoes and socks, rolls up her pants, jumps in and OOPS.....  Margie Palatini is back with a high spirited and entertaining chain of events story, complete with word play, puns, sound effects, and fast-paced hilarious dialogue.  Her energetic text makes this a terrific read-aloud story, and is complemented by Glin Dibley's bold, bright and engaging artwork, full of humorous details and facial expressions that will have both kids and adults giggling and laughing out loud.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Tub-Boo-Boo is a delightful, manic romp your kids will beg to read again and again, and a book that shouldn't be missed.	2002-01-27
1680176:US	52793250	RZJ3EQS77MQLL	0066238765	443512703	The Day It Rained Hearts	Books	5	67	70	N	N	Rainy Day Love.....	Cornelia Augusta couldn't believe her eyes as this unusual downpour began.  Instead of water falling from the sky, it was raining hearts.  She caught bunches of them in her hands and slicker, and took them home.  After examining her hearts carefully, Cornelia Augusta knew just what she wanted to do with each and every one of them....  Felicia Bond has brought back her 1983 picture book, originally titled, Four Valentines In A Rainstorm, and it's as sweet and charming today as it was almost twenty years ago.  Her simple and gentle text is kept to a minimum.  The actual story is told through her engaging, bright and expressive artwork, as Cornelius Augusta plans and constructs the perfect Valentine for each of four special friends.  Preschoolers will enjoy watching her create each unique card, and guessing as to who will be receiving it.  With a Valentine sticker page at the end to help your little ones get started on their own special Valentine cards, The Day It Rained Hearts is an endearing holiday book that shouldn't be missed.	2002-01-25
1680297:US	52793250	R3A181NJ4AD29P	0140565701	528503346	Froggy's First Kiss	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Love is in the Air.....	It's the week before Valentine's Day, and Froggy's in love.  There's a new girl in his class, Frogilina, and he just can't take his eyes off her. He's mooning and staring and when she smiles at him, &quot;his insides got all soft and wiggly, like he'd had caterpillars for breakfast.&quot;  All week long Frogilina sits with him at lunch giving him little treats from her lunch bag. It's a match made in heaven.  That is until Valentine's Day.  Frogilina has an extra special surprise for Froggy, something he never expected.  It turned his face red, it made his tummy feel weird, he couldn't eat, not even his dessert, and it made all his friends laugh and tease him.  Frogilina gave Froggy a big, juicy kiss, right on his cheek.....  Nobody captures the essence of an irrepressible preschooler like Jonathan London and Frank Remkiewicz.  Mr London's joyful, spirited text is full of energy and sound effects, and begs to be read out loud.  Mr Remkiewicz's bold, bright, and expressive artwork enhances the story, and together they use humor to take some of the mystery and embarrassment out of a real life situation.  Perfect for preschoolers, Froggy's First Kiss is an engaging and entertaining story with a happy ending that solves all of Froggy's love problems, and a wonderful Valentine's Day read kids will want to hear again and again.	2002-01-25
1681499:US	52793250	R13HGET4U8YTAR	0451407261	732344325	The Maggody Militia (Arly Hanks Mystery)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	More Misadventures in Maggody.....	This is just what police chief, Arly Hanks, needs.  A militia of homegrown super patriots have camped in Maggody, trying to recruit new members, and playing war games up on Cotter's Ridge.  With deer hunting season about to begin, guaranteeing drunken, brazen good old boys shooting at any and everything that moves out there in the woods, she figures it's only a matter of time before somebody will end up getting hurt.  And that's exactly what happens.  Not only does militiaman, Dylan Gilbert, get shot and killed on the first day of maneuvers, but it seems that the bullet is not what did him in.  Add to that the disappearance of the ever-creepy, Brother Verber, a very pregnant and missing Dahlia Buchanon, a rash of burglaries in and around Maggody, and a couple of wayward ostriches wreaking havoc, and you could say that Arly has her hands full in a very big way.....  Joan Hess is back with another hilarious, manic  romp through Maggody, and this is a series that just gets better with each new installment.  The story line is entertaining, the writing, crisp,  witty, and engaging, and the dialogue, irreverent and full of down-home colloquialisms and backwoods humor.  But it's Ms Hess' unique cast of wacky and quirky characters that make this book stand out, and once you've gotten to know Arly and company, you'll be hooked for sure.  With an ending that brings all the plot lines together, and ties up the loose ends into a nice, neat, satisfying package, The Maggody Militia is a delightful and humorous mystery that shouldn't be missed.  For those new to Arly Hanks and Maggody, Arkansas, start at the beginning with Malice In Maggody, and read them all.  For those of you who are already fans, Joan Hess definitely doesn't disappoint this time out.	2002-01-24
1682401:US	52793250	R2CRXLVZJ88B26	1568461399	145642198	The Seven Dwarfs	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Story Continues.....	Everyone knows the fairy tale story of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.  But few know what happened after the handsome prince found her, and brought her home to his castle to live happily ever after.  Well now, thanks to dwarf, Stephane, we do.  When the king's messenger arrives at their little cottage at the edge of the forest to invite the dwarfs to the royal wedding, they are eager to see their beloved Snow White again.  Here is the story of that wonderful reunion, told in detail by Stephane, as he looks back and remembers the past, is fascinated and enticed by Snow White's life in the present, and finally looks forward to going back to their simple life at the edge of the forest, in the future.....  Written in the first person as a journal or diary entry, Etienne Delessert has authored a unigue continuation of this much-loved fairy tale from the viewpoint of the dwarfs.  His quiet, gentle, lyrical text is personal, sometimes poignant, sometimes amusing, and complemented by charming and engaging, detailed artwork in rich tones.  Together word and art present an evocative story, full of imagery and magic, that will delight readers of all ages.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Seven Dwarfs is an endearing and entertaining story, complete with feel-good, satisfying ending, that ties up all the Snow White loose ends, and leaves you smiling.	2002-01-23
1683491:US	52793250	R1ZNAT1D6CJ9MD	0618103139	796120036	The Race of the Birkebeiners	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Norwegian Miracle.....	The Birkebeiners were peasants and fierce warriors in the Middle Ages whose King sat on the throne of Norway.  Their rivals, the Baglers, were rich noblemen who wanted to claim the throne for themselves.  In 1206, the King had died and left behind an infant son, Prince Hakon.  His Queen, Inge, hid her baby for over a year to keep him safe, but as the Baglers became stronger, and threatened the life of the prince, she realized it was time to travel north to Nidaros where the Birkebeiners would protect them, and the prince could take his rightful place on the throne.  She asked the priest, Sira Trond, for help, and he gathered the best and bravest men of his small village.  To outwit the Baglers, this small band of Birkebeiners decided to ski over the mountains at the darkest, coldest, most dangerous time of the year, braving fierce storms to bring their Queen and baby Prince to safety.....  Take a slice of engaging medieval history, add beautiful and evocative artwork, and you have The Race Of The Birkebeiners.  Based on Sturla Tordsson's account of the escape and rescue of Norway's future King Hakon, written in 1264, Lise Lunge-Larsen has authored a compelling picture book that's sure to mesmerize youngsters with its powerful story.  Her dramatic text is full of atmosphere and suspense, and begs to be read aloud.  Mary Azarian's rich, bold and colorful woodcut illustrations transport the reader back to Medieval times, and on this long ago journey over mountains, through snowstorms, and darkness to safety.  With an afterword detailing King Hakon's reign, Norway's Golden Years, and how the Birkebeiners are still honored today for their bravery and heroism, this is an exceptional and captivating story children 5-9 shouldn't miss.	2002-01-23
1684391:US	52793250	R2FB3LEHQBPKNB	0786804637	787230186	The Blues Singers: Ten Who Rocked the World	Books	5	3	3	N	N	There's Nothing Like the Blues.....	As Julius Lester tells his granddaughter and us, too, in the introduction, &quot;...the blues are like having the flu in your feelings.  But instead of your nose being stuffed up, it's your heart that feels like it needs blowing...  The words of a blues song might be sad, but the music and the beat wrap around your heart like one of your grandmother's hugs.&quot;  Meet ten artists who &quot;rocked the world&quot; with their music.  From the legendary Bessie Smith, Muddy Waters, Billie Holiday, Ray Charles, and B.B. King, to Mahalia Jackson, Little Richard, and James Brown, whose music was inspired and influenced by the blues, Mr Lester profiles their lives, times and careers, and passes on the love of the blues to a whole new generation.  His captivating text, written in an easy to read, conversational style, is evocative, and full of historical information, fun facts, quotes from other musicians, and personal anecdotes, and along with Lisa Cohen's marvelously bright, bold, and expressive portraits really brings each artist to life on the page.  With a bibliography and suggested reading and listening lists at the end, The Blues Singers, Ten Who Rocked The World, is a terrific and informative introduction that's just perfect for young music lovers 9 and older.  &quot;Honey, if it wasn't for the blues, we probably wouldn't have anything to listen to except our toenails growing.&quot;	2002-01-22
1684451:US	52793250	R31F1MHO0P8KZ1	0763615765	224486362	Hug	Books	5	11	12	N	N	All You Need is Love.....	Little Chimp travels through the jungle, and sees all his baby animal friends from elephants, lions, and hippos, to chameleons, giraffes, and even snakes, happily cuddling and hugging their mommies.  HUG he repeats, over and over as he watches his friends.  Pretty soon it's obvious that Little Chimp needs a big hug from his mommy, too, but she's nowhere to be found.  Just as he sits down and begins to cry, we see Mommy Chimp running toward her baby, smiling, arms outstretched, ready to love, hug, and comfort him.....  HUG is a clever, simple, and gentle picture book told through Jez Alborough's marvelously expressive and detailed illustrations.  Little ones will easily be able to understand the story, and enjoy identifying all the jungle animals as they hug each other and try to help Little Chimp.  With its happily-ever-after ending to reassure and comfort children as young as one, HUG is a lovely addition to your youngster's first bookshelf, and a sweet, feel-good story that shouldn't be missed.	2002-01-22
1686018:US	52793250	R171GWHBM300OR	0670841633	40347323	Ooh-la-la (Max in Love)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	&quot;Tout Paris is abuzz.  Max is here!&quot;	Max is in Paris, the city of light and romance, to see the sights and maybe, just maybe find his heart's delight.  &quot;...Who is Max???  Mon dieu!  Sacre Bleu!  He is the coolest cat, I mean the hottest dog.  He is Max Stravinsky.  The dog poet from New York.  That Bohemian beagle...&quot;  He stays at the little hotel run by the &quot;aromatic&quot; Madame Camembert, and tours the city, visiting the Louvre, Notre-Dame Cathedral and the Eiffel Tower, the parks, boulevards and cafes.  He eats, he drinks, and takes French lessons from Charlotte Russe.  And he walks and walks, meeting a quirky cast of original characters, always looking for love...&quot;It was April after all.&quot;  He's invited out to the Crazy Wolf Nightclub by owner Pierre Potpourri, to hear the incomparable pianist, Crepes Suzette, and it is there he finds his &quot;raison d'etre&quot;, the dog he's been looking for his entire life.....   Maira Kalman has authored an ingeniously inventive and entertaining picture book classic, starring the ever-endearing Max, that truly stands alone in a class by itself.  Her witty and creative text, part French, part English, begs to be read aloud, and is full of clever rhymes, wordplay and puns, and complemented by her intricately detailed and expressive artwork.  Children and adults alike will enjoy poring over the pages, always finding something new and intriguing everytime they open the book.  Ooh-La-La (Max In Love) is a masterpiece that will be enjoyed by &quot;children&quot; of all ages, from 5 to 95, and a book to be treasured and shared with friends and family now, and in the many years to come.  This is Maira Kalman at her very best.  Make sure you get your copy now!	2002-01-21
1686907:US	52793250	R21FNC8RO7SN7S	0060286156	188409415	Don't Know Much About the Presidents	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Everything You Wanted to Know about Our Presidents, and More	Do you know who was the youngest president ever elected to office, who served the shortest term, and who served the longest?  Do you know which president had fifteen children, which was an avid fisherman, and who brought a goose, wallaby, donkey, lion cub, raccoon, two cats, twelve dogs, and birds to the White House when he moved in?  The answers to these questions and much, much more can be found in Kenneth Davis' marvelously entertaining and engaging, Don't Know Much About The Presidents.  Written in an easy to read, question and answer, conversational format, Mr Davis packs this book chock full of historical information, fun facts, and trivia.  Learn about each of our 43 president's talents, idiosyncracies and family, his inauguration, important achievements, and life in the White House during the time he served.  Each biographical spread is complemented by Pedro Martin's charmingly witty and humorous illustrations that enhance the text and just add to all the fun.  With a detailed timeline highlighting important and interesting historical events running continuously along the bottom of each page, Don't Know Much About The Presidents is a treasure trove of fun and information that's perfect for kids 8 and up.  So find out which president's good luck charm was a red carnation, and enjoy!	2002-01-20
1687827:US	52793250	RBPOR2WG22RE5	078670943X	731165523	Little Girl Blue: A Novel of Crime	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Tight, Tense, and Gritty.....	NYPD Homicide Detective, Lieutenant Julia Brennan, thought she was hardened and unshakable.  She had seen it all, the very worst elements of society, and the carnage they so often left behind.  But this crime scene was different, and it had a profound effect on her.  A little girl, no more than eight or nine, naked, and frozen, lying in Central Park.  Her tiny blue body was curled in a fetal position, and her bare feet cut and scraped from running.  Who was this &quot;Little Girl Blue&quot;, where had she come from, and why had no one reported seeing a naked child fleeing down the streets of the upper east side?  Against all her better judgement and police training, this case becomes personal, and Lieutenant Brennan finds herself investigating a part of New York City's underground that she didn't know even existed...the lucrative world of pedophiles, child pornography, and slavery.  As the case progresses, she finds herself drawn into this world, and willing to risk everything to get to the truth, and bring Little Girl Blue's killers to justice.....  David Cray is back with a dark police procedural that's tense, compelling, and full of riveting, suspenseful, and gritty scenes.  His writing is engaging, crisp, and intelligent with a great ear for dialogue, and his well drawn characters are original and believable.  But it's Mr Cray's atmospheric portrait of New York and its underbelly that makes this novel stand out, and his indepth research and attention to detail adds real credibility to the plot, and brings the story and characters to life.  Little Girl Blue is a disturbing and realistic, fast paced, page turner that grabs you from page one, and doesn't let go.  David Cray never disappoints.  This is a novel that should definitely be at the very top of every mystery/thriller fan's &quot;must read&quot; list.	2002-01-19
1693149:US	52793250	R1Q9QIBO27GYSZ	0689718721	226345778	Somebody Loves You, Mr. Hatch (paperback)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Perfect Valentine's Day Story.....	&quot;Mr Hatch was tall and thin and he did not smile.  Every morning at 6:30 sharp he would leave his brick house and walk eight blocks to the shoelace factory where he worked.  At lunchtime he would sit alone in a corner, eat his cheese and mustard sandwich, and drink a cup of coffee.  Sometimes he brought a prune for dessert.&quot;  So begins the story of Mr Hatch, a lonely, quiet man that no one really ever noticed.  That is, until the day the big box arrived.  Mr Hatch had never received a package before.  He excitedly ripped open the wrapping to find a large heart-shaped box filled with candy, and a special note that said, &quot;Somebody loves you.&quot;  &quot;And then he did something he had never done before:  He laughed.  He laughed and danced and clapped his hands.&quot;  He went out for a walk and met and helped his neighbors.  He brought his big heart-shaped box to work and shared it with all his co-workers.  He baked brownies and made lemonade and had a big party for all the neighborhood children in his backyard and played his harmonica.  Mr Hatch bloomed!  But all his newfound joy was about to end when the embarrassed postman knocked at the door.....  Eileen Spinelli has written a lovely and endearing picture book with a gentle message that is sure to warm the hearts of youngsters and adults alike.  Her simple and easy to read text, complete with feel good, happily-ever-after ending, is complemented by Paul Yalowitz's engaging, colored pencil illustrations, full of special details, and children will love watching the artwork bloom, just like Mr Hatch does, from subdued browns and yellows to bright happy colors.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Somebody Loves You, Mr. Hatch is a wonderful read aloud story the entire family can enjoy together for Valentine's Day, and every other day of the year, too.	2002-01-15
1693314:US	52793250	R32KQCXP4OWUZB	0763610461	568794530	Handel, Who Knew What He Liked	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Fresh, Spirited...A Delight to Read.....	On the opening page of M.T. Anderson's  and Kevin Hawkes' new picture book biography is a portrait of Handel with a bit of commentary attached.  &quot;This is George Frideric Handel.  He looks very satisfied with things.  He's smiling a little, as if he's very sure of himself.  You'd have to be sure of youself to wear a wig that gigantic.&quot;  And that, in a nutshell, describes this world famous composer.  Handel was a man who knew what he wanted.  Even as a child he was headstrong and decisive.  He knew what he liked, he didn't care what others thought, and he made it happen.  He was a man of force and spirit who controlled his own destiny, and in doing so became one of the most beloved and respected composers in the world;  a man who's music has lived on for centuries.....  M.T. Anderson's witty and irreverent text is full of history, marvelous anecdotes of some famous and not so famous events, fun facts, and trivia, and enhanced by Kevin Hawkes lush and expressive artwork.  Young and old alike will relish the drama, humor, and brilliant detail in each picture  With sidebars within the text explaining musical terminology, and a timeline of Handel's life, and lists of recordings and other biographies at the end, Handel:  Who Knew What He Liked, is a joyous, fun-filled masterpiece that is sure to whet the appetites of youngsters 8-12.  One of the best new books of 2001, this is definitely a biography that shouldn't be missed!	2002-01-15
1694647:US	52793250	R1JT0JHBGSLYGT	0312277628	523336057	Shakespeare's Counselor (Lily Bard Mysteries, Book 5)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Deep, Dark, Intriguing.....	Lily Bard, former cleaning woman, karate expert, and now apprentice private detective is moving forward and trying not to look back.  She has a great man, Jack Leeds, in her life, a new and promising career, and she's finally taken the big and positive step to rid herself of the demons and nightmares from her past...she's joined a rape counseling and support group.  But the group has problems from the beginning.  Their therapist, Tamsin Lynd, has serious issues of her own.  She's been stalked and terrorized for years, and though she's just moved here, and is new to Shakespeare, she seems to have brought her stalker along with her.  When one of the group's members is found murdered and left &quot;displayed&quot; in Tamsin's office, Lily needs to know why, and uses her detective skills to start looking into the case.  As the violence escalates, Lily finds herself on a mission to uncover the whole truth, not just to help Tamsin, but so that she can put the past behind her, and begin her new life.....  Charlaine Harris is back with the fifth installment of her dark and compelling Shakespeare series.  This is a well paced, intricate, psychological thriller, full of suspenseful, riveting scenes, twists, turns, and more than a few surprises, that will keep you on the edge of your seat, and turning pages to the end.  Ms Harris' eloquent writing is crisp, spare and intelligent.  But it's her marvelously drawn, complex, and intriguing cast of characters that really makes this novel stand out.  Detailed character development is definitely Ms Harris' forte.  Though the ending is a bit rushed and clumsy, it doesn't take much away from a tense and absorbing story.  This is a series that just gets better with each new installment.  For those new to Lily Bard and Shakespeare, Arkansas, start at the beginning with Shakespeare's Landlord, and read them all.  For those of you who are already fans, Shakespeare's Counselor doesn't disappoint.	2002-01-14
1700053:US	52793250	R1PFHUM4G04RB2	0060292423	148168027	When Johnny Went Marching Home: Young Americans Fight the Civil War	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Young Soldiers.....	Though both the North and South banned the enlistment of anyone under the age of 18, thousands of boys and some girls as young as ten fought during the Civil War.  They came from all walks of life, immigrants, blacks, the poor, and rich, even future president William McKinley, and served as soldiers, drummers, buglers, hospital orderlies, and spies.  Many were wounded, imprisoned, died in battle, or of disease, and six even received the Medal of Honor.  G. Clifton Wisler has compiled the stories and experiences of 49 of these very young Americans into a riveting and vivid collection.  History comes alive in short two or three page chapters, and each account is very personal and poignant, often using diary entries, letters, and postwar recollections if possible, and most include a haunting photograph of each young soldier at the time of his/her service.  It is obvious that this book was a labor of love, and Mr Wisler's painstaking research and attention to detail brings these stories to life.  A map, extensive chapter notes, glossary, index, and bibliography are included to augment lessons and discussions.  Perfect for youngsters 10 and older,When Johnny Went Marching is a masterpiece, and children will be fascinated as they read about soldiers their own age who tried to make a difference.	2002-01-10
1700800:US	52793250	R2OS7L9DYF2FO3	0152164863	210498596	Something Wonderful	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Something Wonderful is Something Special.....	Poor Little Hen.  She's not a prize winning fowl like her coopmates, Biddie, Lily, Rosie, and Gertie.  She's just small and ordinary.  But as Mrs Field, the farmer's wife tells her, &quot;Don't be sad because you're small...Small creatures can do wonderful things.&quot;  And though the other chickens laughed when she told them, right then and there Little Hen decided she was going to do something wonderful.  It wasn't long before she got her chance.  One very hot summer day the chickens strutted into the cool woods to lay their eggs in a shady nest.  They all walked away and forgot about them, all except Little Hen.....  Jenny Nimmo has written a sweet and endearing story with a gentle message that will warm the hearts of young and old alike.  Her simple and easy to read text makes this a great read aloud book at story time, and is complemented by Debbie Boon's charming, colorful and expressive artwork.  Perfect for little ones 3-7, Something Wonderful is a joyous, engaging story with a happily-ever-after ending, reminding youngsters that each and every one of us is special and capable of something wonderful.	2002-01-09
1701230:US	52793250	R2XJVIIJQDI2WU	0451402995	580676299	Madness in Maggody (An Arly Hanks Mystery)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Arly's Back and Better than Ever.....	It was Hizzoner, Jim Bob Buchanon's big day.  Jim Bob's Supersaver Buy 4 Less was ready to open.  The ribbon cutting ceremony was beginning, the high school band was playing, the cheerleaders were cheering, and the crush of the crowd had created a traffic jam in sleepy Maggody, Arkansas (population 755).  With the deli, fresh produce department and food service picnic pavillion, some of the local merchants were far from happy, afraid ol' Jim Bob would put them out of business.  But big events like this don't happen too often in Maggody, and so the whole town turned out to check out the new competition and try some of the promised, free &quot;gourmet&quot; food.  Within minutes, people started getting sick and dropping like flies, and the big opening became the big closing.  With her hands full of citizen complaints, health inspectors, and threats from Hizzoner, Chief of Police, Arly Hanks, could barely keep up with all the chaos, gossip, and rumors.  But when another round of poisoning ensues, and a local dies, Arly figures this isn't just some mean spirited prank, turns up the heat on her investigation, and she won't stop until she gets to the truth.....  Turn off the phone, and lock the door, Joan Hess is back with another marvelous romp through Maggody that will have you laughing out loud, and rooting for Arly to the very end.  Her well paced story line is full of entertaining, vivid scenes, and intriguing subplots, and her writing is crisp and smart, complete with witty, irreverent dialogue and back-woods humor.  But it's Ms Hess' wacky and quirky cast of characters that makes this novel stand out, and once you've gotten to know Maggody's finest, and not so finest, you'll be hooked for sure.  With a hilarious climax that deftly ties all the story threads together, and a very satisfying conclusion, Madness In Maggody is a pleasure to read in a series that just gets better with each new installment.  For those new to Arly Hanks and company, start at the beginningwith Malice In Maggody, and read them all.  For those who are already fans, enjoy!	2002-01-09
1701310:US	52793250	R3RU1IBEZ50S85	0805063285	601814512	Very Boring Alligator	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Rip Roarin' Good Read.....	&quot;Very Boring Alligator/came one day to play,/but he stay-stay-stayed,/and HE WOULDN'T GO AWAY./ I huffed and I sighed./I made heebie-jeebie eyes./But that Boring Alligator,/he just WOULDN'T GO AWAY.&quot;  What does a little girl do to get rid of an unwanted guest?  Begging didn't work.  Pleading didn't work.  Moaning and groaning and looking scary didn't work.  Even calling the Gator Cops didn't work.  It just added to the problem.  Finally, frustrated and angry, she takes charge, and succinctly tells them all to STOP! and GO! and they finally &quot;get it&quot;.  &quot;Now/Gator comes to play/only when I say,/and at the end of play I say, 'Please go away.'/And Gator goes away, right away./Cause I'm the Boss of Play/every day!&quot;  Jean Gralley has written a charming and energetic picture book that just begs to be read aloud.  Her engaging, rhyming text is full of humor, sound effects, alliteration, wordplay and motion, and is complemented with bold, eye-popping, expressive illustrations that will delight and amuse young and old alike.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Very Boring Alligator is an entertaining, manic romp that shouldn't be missed.	2002-01-09
1702298:US	52793250	R1GZHJ5LT2A6JF	061804910X	362896194	The Great Pig Search	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Find Those Pigs.....	&quot;The trouble started the day Bert and Ethel's pigs escaped from the back of their truck.  Right after that, people all over town started missing clothes.  Everyone searched everywhere.  No clothes. No pigs.&quot;  Soon a postcard arrived from Florida with the word 'OINK'.  It was embarrassing, everyone joking about Bert and Ethel's runaway, postcard writing pigs.  What they needed, Bert decided was to get away from it all, and take a nice vacation to someplace special, warm and fun, like Florida.  He bought two bus tickets, and those two pig farmers were soon on their way.....  Eileen Christelow is back with another charming and amusing missing pig tale that's sure to have kids squealing with pleasure.  Her simple and entertaining story line is enhanced with expressive and hilarious illustrations, and little ones will enjoy poring over the pages and finding all the disguised pigs in the most unusual places.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Great Pig Search is a rip roarin' comical adventure that's sure to tickle your funny bone each and everytime you open the book.	2002-01-08
1703450:US	52793250	R37IL35QBGHUPN	0618083669	759481212	Traveling Man: The Journey of Ibn Battuta, 1325-1354	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Ibn Battuta, Traveler of His Age.....	&quot;In the days when the earth was flat and Jerusalem was the center of the world, there was a boy named Ibn Battuta.&quot;  So begins Traveling Man, the eloquent story of a fourteenth century, Moroccan man's 75,000 mile, worldwide expedition.  Heading first to Egypt, then on to Jerusalem, and Arabia to Mecca.  He then traveled across the steppes of Asia to India, the Maldives, and on to China, thought at the time to be the end of the world, before finally, after 29 years, returning home again.  Once home, Ibn Battuta told a court scribe about his journey and many adventures, and this written record is the basis for James Rumford's remarkable and mesmerizing story.  His lyrical and engaging text is full of imagery, mystery, and magic, and complemented with elegant, creative, and vivid, artwork, done in hues of gold, red and blues.  Together word and art transports the reader to a long ago place and time, on an amazing and fantastic journey.  A  glossary, afterword, and detailed map at the end, provides additional information to further enlighten and enhance the experience.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, Traveling Man is an evocative masterpiece that shouldn't be missed.  As Ibn Battuta wrote...&quot;Traveling - it offers you a hundred roads to adventure, and gives your heart wings!&quot;	2002-01-07
1703539:US	52793250	R1WJVVID54ZUC6	0439114942	363295800	The Dinosaurs of Waterhouse Hawkins (Caldecott Honor Book)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Dinosaur Delight and Much, Much More.....	&quot;Can you fathom a time when almost no one in the world knew what a dinosaur looked like?&quot;  Well, back in the mid-eighteen hundreds, that was just the case.  Archeologists and paleontologists had found dinosaur fossils and bits and pieces of their skeletons, but no one had actually drawn or created a model of what one might have really looked like.  Enter Benjamin Waterhouse Hawkins.  He had always had a passion for drawing and sculpting animals, and now as an adult, realized his dream project, commissioned by Queen Victoria and Prince Albert, of building life sized dinosaur statues for all the world to see.....  Take a little biography and science, add some mystery, history, humor and suspense, and you have the makings of one intriguing and captivating story.  Barbara Kerley and Brian Selznick take us from England to America and back with this thrilling and unique story about this special man of vision.  Ms Kerley's detailed text is exciting, thoughtful, and inspiring, and beautifully complemented by Mr Selznick's dazzling and intricate illustrations.  Together word and art create a vivid and lasting picture of a man who followed his dream through both triumph and disaster.  Fascinating end notes are as entertaining as the story, enhance and augment learning and should open the door to interesting lessons and discussions.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, The Dinosaurs Of Waterhouse Hawkins is a treasure to be savored and enjoyed each and every time it's read.	2002-01-07
1705992:US	52793250	RJM6ELJP7DLXU	0375811176	488890173	Gaspard and Lisa at the Museum (Gaspard and Lisa Books)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Exciting Trip to the Museum.....	Little Gaspard and Lisa, two adorable and endearing pups, are on their way to the Museum of Natural History, and they couldn't be more excited.  They're going to see everything, butterflies, monkeys, tigers, elephants, skeletons, and best of all, extinct animals&quot;  ...Please try to stay out of trouble,&quot; their teacher reminds them, but trouble is their middle name, and though they don't mean to, Gaspard and Lisa turn this field trip into an unexpected, though amusing, misadventure.....  Anne Gutman and Georg Hallensleben are back with another delightful and humorous Gaspard and Lisa adventure.  Ms Gutman's simple and straightforward text will be easily devoured and enjoyed by emerging readers, and is complemented by Mr Hallensleben's gorgeous, lush, and expressive artwork.  Both youngsters and adults will be charmed by this dynamic canine pair and their engaging and entertaining story.  Perfect for little ones 3-6, Gaspard And Lisa At The Museum is the latest in this captivating series.  Start at the beginning with Lisa's Airplane Trip and Gaspard On Vacation, and read them all	2002-01-05
1706210:US	52793250	RL1M6115Z7STE	0684849046	754969196	The Deadhouse	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A Compelling Page-Turner.....	Assistant D.A., Alexandra Cooper, was sure it was the victim's husband.  She'd been working for almost two years to get Kings College political science professor, Lola Dakota, to press charges.  Dakota's husband had abused her, stalked her, and terrorized her, but on the day she was strangled and thrown down an elevator shaft, her husband had an airtight alibi.  He was in jail.  The only clue she and her favorite homicide detective, Mike Chapman, have to work with, is a note found in Lola's pocket with the word &quot;deadhouse&quot;.  Their investigation leads them to Kings College and her collegues, where they find out that Lola was involved with a special historical project on Roosevelt Island, a desolate strip of land in the East River where nineteenth century New York quarantined its sick, dying, and insane, and the worst of its criminals.  Always tenacious and persistent, Chapman and Cooper dig deep, following leads and literally leaving no stone unturned, but won't quit until they find the murderer and get to the whole truth.....  Linda Fairstein is back with another intricately plotted installment of her Alex Cooper series.  The story is compelling, full of atmosphere and suspenseful, riveting scenes.  The characters are engaging, well drawn, and interesting, and the writing is crisp, smart and intelligent.  Ms Fairstein's indepth knowledge and expertise in the workings of the D.A.'s office and police department add real credibility to the story, and her extensive and detailed research into the history of Roosevelt Island is fascinating, and really makes this thriller stand out.  The book does have a couple of weaknesses.  The subplots about a stalker and Alex's and Chapman's separate love lives, become tiresome, adds nothing to the plot, and bog down the intriguing story line, and the ending is rushed and unsatisfying, leaving a few to many loose ends.  But that said, The Deadhouse is a well paced, entertaining thriller that's hard to put down.  This is thefourth novel of a great and realistic series.  For those new to Alex Cooper and company, start at the beginning with Final Jeopardy, and read them all.  If you're already a fan, The Deadhouse doesn't disappoint.	2002-01-05
1711940:US	52793250	R2A5V3P6FEMTNB	0792270088	732876133	Bull's-Eye: A Photobiography Of Annie Oakley (Photobiographies)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An American Icon.....	Annie Oakley, markswoman, famous for her horseback-riding stunts and trick-shot performances, comes to life in Sue Macy's new  compelling and fascinating biography, Bull's-Eye.  Born Phoebe Ann Moses, a Quaker, in the backwoods of Ohio, Annie Oakley overcame extreme childhood poverty, abuse, and work as a laborer before making the giant leap to sharpshooter and world renown entertainer.  Her amazing story, so often seen in movies, Broadway shows, and television is fleshed out here, relying less on the larger-than-life, wild west myth, and more on the intimate details and little known facts about this remarkable woman's life.  Ms Macy's easy to read text is told in an engaging, conversational tone, and is enhanced with actual historical photographs, posters, advertisements, and newpaper articles, as well as quotes from Annie herself, from her unpublished autobiography.  With a chronology, resource guide, and author's note at the end to fill in additional details and further discussions, Bull's-Eye is perfect for youngsters 8-12, and is a unique little treasure that is sure to whet the appetite and send imaginations soaring.	2002-01-02
1714965:US	52793250	R3RBX3GORHW267	0152022058	789207299	Oddhopper Opera: A Bug's Garden of Verses	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Enter the Garden, If You Dare.....	&quot;Once upon a garden rotten,/Twice forlorn and half forgotten...&quot;  So begins Kurt Cyrus' marvelous collection of &quot;a bug's garden of verses.&quot;  As winter ends and spring blooms, all the creatures begin to wake up and come to the surface.  Join aphids, bees, crickets, dung beetles, earwigs, and fleas, grubs, katydids, snakes, snails, frogs, stinkbugs, and many other creepy, crawly, slimy friends as they eat, work, and play.  The seasons change and spring turns to summer, and then summer turns to autumn, when &quot;Drip-drip-wet and muddy./Party's over, everybody.&quot;  Mr Cyrus' exuberant and entertaining text is full of energy and motion, and wonderfully enhanced by his bold, vibrant and engaging artwork.  These illustrations are a real feast for the eyes, and youngsters will enjoy poring over the pictures, and always finding something new and humorous each time they open the book.  Perfect for little entomologists aged 6-10, Oddhopper Opera is a very creative and innovative look at the garden, and all who live there.	2001-12-30
1715023:US	52793250	R1LCKP4MZB1ZPA	0451402367	608260226	Malice in Maggody (An Arly Hanks Mystery)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Murder and Mayhem in the Ozarks.....	Meet Chief of Police, Arly Hanks.  She's back home in Maggody, Arkansas, population 755, recovering from a nasty divorce.  She wanted some quiet time to decompress and gather her wits about her, and that's just what she got.  Life in Maggody is slow, really slow.  There's no crime to speak of, and about the only action she ever sees is a car wreck out on the highway, once every month or so.  Her biggest chief of police decisions usually involve where to set up the speed trap, in the school zone, or at the signal light.  So it comes as a big surprise when two real crime cases fall her way on the same day.  First a former Maggody resident, now housed at the state correctional institution escapes and looks to be heading home.  Then an EPA contract specialist sent to sign the paperwork for an unwanted sewage treatment plant that the residents of Maggody are sure is going to pollute their swimming and fishing holes, goes missing.  Add to that the murder of a local, and it looks like Arly is going to have to buckle down and get busy, fast.  With the whole town tight lipped and stonewalling her investigation, it's going to take all her cunning and training to sort out all this mayhem and madness, and get to the truth.....  Sit down and get comfortable, Joan Hess is about to take you on a roller coaster of a ride through the Ozarks.  This is a light, comical mystery, easily read in one sitting, that will have you smiling, chortling, and laughing out loud.  Her entertaining story line is well paced and clever, and her writing is crisp, witty and full of irreverent dialogue and back-woods southern humor.  But it's Ms Hess' well drawn, engaging and original characters that really make this novel stand out, and once you've gotten to know Maggody's finest and not so finest, you'll be hooked for sure.  Malice In Maggody is the first of a marvelous and delightful series.  Do yourself a big favor, start here at the beginning, and read them all.	2001-12-30
1716453:US	52793250	R2JUO6GYJFYKFA	0385505833	999720718	Skipping Christmas: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Ho Ho Hum.....	Tax accountant, Luther Krank, is skipping Christmas.  His only child, Blair, joined the Peace Corps, left right after Thanksgiving for the jungles of Peru, and won't be around to celebrate the holidays for the first time in her twenty-three years.  Luther just spent the evening going over his meticulous records and receipts, and found that the Krank family spent $6,100 on the holiday last year.  Outrageous!  Well not this year.  No gifts, no tree, no decorations, lights, or Frosty the Snowman on the roof, no matter how tough and persistant the neighborhood pressure.  No cards or invitations, he's cancelling their annual Christmas eve party, and saying no to the office black tie dinner, parties, fruit cakes, calendars...the list just goes on and on.  This year, he's convinced his wife to put all that money to much better use.  They're going to skip Christmas and go on a first class, ten day cruise.....  Take It's A Wonderful Life, minus the joy and magic, and combine it with an uninspired version of Dicken's, A Christmas Carol, and you'll end up with John Grisham's, Skipping Christmas.  This is a short, and readable little tale, with a few good laughs thrown in, that pokes fun at all the commercialism and silliness of the season.  With a trite and predictable plot, full of one dimensional cartoon characters, this is definitely not a story that stands the test of time, to be pulled out and read, year after year, as part of the holiday tradition.  For Grisham fans expecting legal action, drama, twists and turns, you'll be sorely disappointed.  For those of you looking for a fast, light, and distracting couple of hours, Skipping Christmas works just fine.	2001-12-29
1721532:US	52793250	RFE4TUFXAMTBZ	1551668033	194529307	Delayed Diagnosis	Books	4	47	48	N	N	A Page Turner.....	Dawkins County Emergency Room physician, Rhea Lynch, never expected to find her oldest and dearest friend, Marisa Braswell, near death when she got home from a two week camping trip.  The diagnosis, a catastrophic stroke.  Talk around the hospital says Marisa is dying.  After only a couple of days in the ICU, her husband, Dr Steven Braswell, took her home, and has forbidden any visitors, including friends and family.  This course of treatment, or non-treatment makes absolutely no sense, medically, so Rhea sneaks into the Braswell house and conducts her own examination.  The results tell her two things...Marisa didn't have a stroke, and whatever happened to her, happened on purpose.....  Gwen Hunter's debut thriller is a fast paced, roller coaster ride, with a suspenseful and compelling story line and strong, well drawn characters.  Her hospital scenes are intense, vivid and riveting, and her medical knowledge and attention to detail adds real credibility to the story.  This is the beginning of a promising new series, and with the few loose ends left hanging, readers will look forward to Ms Hunter's next installment, and Dr Lynch's return.	2001-12-24
1724317:US	52793250	RHQUY8BFEM76K	0802733662	652424374	Dead Ball : A Harvey Blissberg Mystery	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Harvey Blissberg's Back in the Game.....	It looks like Providence Jewel outfielder, Moss Cooley, may be ready to do the impossible.  His bat is red hot; he's hit in 46 consecutive games, and he's zeroing in on DiMaggio's 56-game hitting streak record...the record, experts said, that would never be broken.  But not everyone is thrilled by the possibility, and with all his success and notoriety, comes hate mail.  When Moss receives a headless lawn jockey with a death threat attached, team management decides to call in the big guns, former Jewel's center fielder, turned private detective, Harvey Blissberg, to protect their star player.  But &quot;babysitting&quot; isn't enough for Harvey, and once he sinks his teeth into the case and starts digging, he can't let go until he gets to the truth.....  Mystery lovers and baseball enthusiasts  will be glad to know that Richard Rosen is finally back, after a long hiatus, with another Harvey Blissberg mystery.  Dead Ball is a well paced, intriguing, page turner, full of great characters, vivid scenes, and subtle plot twists that keep you off balance and guessing to the end.  But it's Mr Rosen's smart, crisp, intelligent writing, and witty and irreverent dialogue that really makes this novel stand out, and his obvious love of the game, and knowledge of baseball history adds real credibility to the story.  With its stunning conclusion, and very satisfying ending, Dead Ball is a novel that should definitely be placed at the top of every mystery fan's &quot;Must Read&quot; list.  If you're new to the Harvey Blissberg series, start at the beginning with Strike Three, You're Dead, and read them all.  If you're already a groupie, Harvey's back, and better than ever!	2001-12-21
1724956:US	52793250	R2HM0LC97NQ6NO	0375814140	455081490	Hushabye	Books	5	10	10	N	N	'Night, 'Night, Sleep Tight.....	It's the end of the day, and creatures large and small are worn out and in need of sleep.  From the mother cat with her little kittens, three very tired, suitcase carrying bears, a weary, droopy-eyed fish, and a too-long flying goose, to the man in the moon who'll be sound asleep soon, an eye rubbing, sleepy  baby in a boat, and a frog who's tired and dry from hopping all day, all are looking for a place to rest, hushabye.....Award winning author and illustrator, John Burningham, has created a soothing and comforting bedtime story that's just perfect for preschoolers as young as one.  The calming rhythm of his simple, quiet, sometimes rhyming text, begs to be whispered, and will lull your little ones to sleep with its gentle motion.  Expressive, colorful, and childlike artwork, along with pencil sketches enhance his words.  Hushabye will easily become part of your bedtime ritual.  &quot;You are tucked up in bed./You toes are all warm./You're out of the wind/and the rain./Your head's on the pillow./You'll soon be asleep./Hushabye/Hushabye/Hush&quot;	2001-12-21
1727257:US	52793250	R1H1ONWBOEMOST	0060294604	611198647	Amber Was Brave, Essie Was Smart	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Sensitive, Heartwarming, and Unforgettable.....	Amber was brave...&quot;She could get the grocery man/to trust them for a container of milk/though their mother/couldn't pay him till payday/Amber wasn't afraid of the rat/in the wall under the sink/or of climbing up in high places&quot;  Essie was smart...&quot;Essie could read hard library books/could thread a needle/cook toasted cheese sandwiches/make cocoa/put the lipstick on just right/when they played dress-up&quot;  Amber and Essie, two sisters, caught in the day to day struggle of hard times.  Their mother is tired and sad, and works long hours for minimum wage.  Their daddy is in jail for forging a check when he lost his job and needed money.  There is never much to eat, the radiator's always cold, and the phone is turned off until their mother can pay the bill.  But there are still the small pleasures of childhood...jumping on the bed together trying to touch the ceiling, playing beauty parlor every Sunday night with Mommy, dipping toast triangles in hot cocoa, making a &quot;best sandwich&quot; together with Wilson the bear.  And there is hope.... Vera B Williams has written an unforgettable and poignant portrait of a family clinging to the edge.  Her evocative text, told in free verse, is powerful, yet gentle, sensitive without being maudlin, and really illuminates the joys and sorrows of Amber and Essie's life.  Her expressive and understated black and white pencil drawings capture the tough times and happier moments without being distracting.  And Ms Williams includes vibrant, colored pencil, self-portraits at the beginning to introduce the girls, and a wonderful family album drawn by Essie and Amber, to complete this remarkable and heartwarming story, after the happy and uplifting ending.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, Amber Was Brave, Essie Was Smart is an engaging and endearing treasure, told with great insight and wisdom.	2001-12-19
1730772:US	52793250	RZRXIILBAXI55	0802733719	812148468	Glare Ice: A Claire Watkins Mystery (Claire Watkins Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Dangerous Ice.....	It all started with an early morning phone call from a sobbing woman, &quot;I can't...What he did to me...&quot;, and then with a click the call was disconnected.  Deputy Sherrif, Claire Watkins, tried to find out the identity of the distraught caller, but it was an untraceable local call, and there were no reports of domestic abuse when she checked at the station.  So she was shocked and unsettled a few days later to see her neighbor, Stephanie Klaus, an obviously bruised and battered woman, at the post office.  Stephanie wasn't interested in any help from Claire.  She made her feeble excuses and left as quickly as she could get away.  But when Stephanie's boyfriend, Buck, is murdered, and Stephanie's beaten again within an inch of her life, Claire digs in her heels, and decides to get to the truth, and find this monster, with or without Stephanie's help.....  Mary Logue has written a compelling page turner set in picturesque western Wisconsin, that's full of atmosphere, vivid scenes, and a strong and empathetic heroine.  Her main story line is tense and intriguing, and her writing, strong and eloquent.  Unfortunately, the novel gets bogged down, at times, and loses some of its momentum with the varied subplots about Claire's boyfriend, his mother, and her daughter's teacher troubles.  But even these distractions don't take too much away from the suspenseful plot.  With a powerful ending that ties up all the loose ends, Glare Ice is a fast read, easily finished in one sitting, and the third installment of a strong and entertaining series.	2001-12-16
1731673:US	52793250	R3LSD2IQEO7ZU6	0743202295	638782231	Maggody and the Moonbeams (Arly Hanks Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Murder and Mayhem in Maggody.....	Maggody, Arkansas (population 755) Police Chief, Arly Hanks, thought she'd dealt with some really tough cases in the past, but isn't sure she's prepared to handle this latest assignment.  It seems, she's been &quot;volunteered&quot; to help chaperone the church youth group during their week of spring break.  They're off to Camp Pearly Gates, in nearby Dunkicker, to rebuild the bleachers and fishing dock.  If that isn't bad enough, the formidable and always officious wife of the mayor, Mrs Jim Bob, and the ever-creepy preacher, Brother Verber, will be going along too.  But before the kids can even get settled in, a youth grouper stumbles over the body of a dead woman, a member of the &quot;Moonbeam&quot; cult whose followers dress in white choir robes, shave their heads, wear magenta lipstick, and are often mistaken for space aliens.  As murder and mayhem ensues, Arly is pressed into service by the County Sheriff's Department to investigate the murder, and find out what's really going on in Dunkicker.....  Joan Hess is back with another rip roarin', good time romp through Maggody.  This is a light mystery that has it all...a well paced plot, full of vivid and hilarious scenes, smart, crisp writing, and witty and irreverent dialogue, complete with down-home, southern colloquialisms that will have you laughing out loud and shaking your head.  But it's Ms Hess' wacky and quirky cast of original characters that really makes this novel stand out, and once you've been introduced to Maggody's finest, you'll be hooked for sure.  So put up your feet and get comfortable, because once you begin reading, you won't be able to put this book down until you've finish the last satisfying page.  Maggody And The Moonbeams is the latest in a terrific series that just gets better and better with each book.  If you're new to Arly Hanks and company, start at the beginning with Malice in Maggody, and read them all.  If you're already a fan, this installment doesn't disappoint.	2001-12-15
1732821:US	52793250	RGI98E6XFM2GU	0763612103	291936082	One Day at Wood Green Animal Shelter	Books	5	2	2	N	N	For Animal Lovers Everywhere.....	Come spend a day with Patricia Casey at Wood Green Animal Shelter.  &quot;It's a place in the city where sick, stray, or abandoned animals are taken care of.&quot;  First let's meet the staff and their own pets who like to come to work with them.  Then, let's get the shelter and clinic ready for business...preparing the waiting and examining rooms, feeding and attending to the animals who are staying there because they're sick, injured, or homeless, and need help.  Finally at noon the clinic opens and the vet is ready to see patients.  When the day is over, the staff feeds and prepares the animals for the night, and then go home, themselves, to eat and rest, because tomorrow is another busy day.....  Patricia Casey has written a charming and informative picture book, full of fascinating and engaging stories about both the people who work at the shelter, and the many different animals who've come to stay or live there.  Her simple and straightforward text is interesting and entertaining to read, but it's the busy collage artwork that really makes this book stand out.  Ms Casey combines photographs, watercolors and colored pencil drawings to create a detailed smorgasbord of visual fun, and youngsters will enjoy poring over the illustrations and finding something new and exciting each time they open the book.  Perfect for kids 5-9, One Day At Wood Green Animal Shelter is a clever and innovative story that your little animal lover will want to read again and again.	2001-12-14
1733751:US	52793250	R2O304NWCNTHLT	0786809019	364911926	Elsie Times Eight	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Too Much of a Good Thing.....	&quot;Elsie's fairy godmother loved her very much and came by once in a while to see how things were going.&quot;  She always meant well, but was a bit hard of hearing and sometimes got things wrong.  One day she wasn't listening very carefully to Elsie's mama and papa, and that's when all the trouble started.  Before anyone could stop her, she'd changed one perfectly nice Elsie into eight noisy Elsies, and then promptly disappeared.....  Natalie Babbitt has written a delightful and magical tale that's sure to tickle your funny bone.  Her charming and easy to read text is enhanced with expressive illustrations, and youngsters will love watching eight little identical Elsies wreak havoc on their neighbors and village.  With its satisfying, happily-ever-after ending that sets everything right again, Elsie Times Eight is a sweet and humorous story that kids 3-7 shouldn't miss.	2001-12-13
1735763:US	52793250	R15BN9BJEAOGIA	0689818858	958076956	Goin' Someplace Special	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Powerful Story.....	'Tricia Ann is going to her favorite spot...&quot;Someplace Special&quot;, and today she's going all by herself for the very first time.  As she skips out the door, her grandma, Mama Frances, calls after her, &quot;And no matter what, hold yo' head up and act like you b'long to somebody.&quot;  Wise words 'Tricia Ann will need as she faces the indignities and humiliation of the Jim Crow laws during the 1950s.  She has to ride in the back of the bus, behind the Colored Section sign.  Her grandfather was a stonemason on the beautiful fountain in the park, yet she can't sit and enjoy watching it, because the park benches are for whites only.  She can't eat in Monroe's Restaurant, or enter the Southland Hotel's lobby, &quot;No colored people are allowed!&quot;  And if she wants to see a movie, 'Tricia Ann has to use the back door, and sit upstairs in the &quot;Buzzard's Roost&quot;  But there is one place she can go, her &quot;Someplace Special&quot;, and it has a message she loves to read, chiseled in the stone across the front of the building...Public Library:  All Are Welcome.....  Drawing from her own life as a young girl in Nashville, Tennessee, Patricia McKissack has written a quiet, poignant, yet very powerful story, detailing and explaining what life was like for African Americans, during the Jim Crow era.  Her simple and evocative text is complemented by award winning illustrator, Jerry Pinkney's beautifully expressive, watercolor artwork, and together, they transport readers back to the hurtful and unfair world of the 1950s segregated south.  An Author's Note at the end, completes and enriches the story, and can be a starting point for further lessons and/or discussions.  Perfect for youngsters 5 and older, Goin' Someplace Special is a thoughtful and engaging story of both injustice, and the triumph of the human spirit.	2001-12-12
1737068:US	52793250	R14NHVZ4UJH2OW	0763616257	190037621	Captain Slaughterboard Drops Anchor	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Swashbuckling Pirate Adventure.....	Captain Slaughterboard was a mean and ferocious pirate who made hundreds of men walk the plank, and along with his nasty crew, Billy Bottle, Jonas Joints, Timothy Twitch, Charlie Choke, and Peter Poop, the cook with a cork nose, he traveled the oceans looking for battles and adventure.  Then one morning, while looking through his telescope, he spied a beautiful pink island inhabited by &quot;preposterous creatures.&quot;  Once he and his crew had landed, they captured the &quot;Yellow Creature&quot;, and took him back to their ship.  And that, as they say, was the beginning of a beautiful and unusual friendship.....  Though Captain Slaughterboard Drops Anchor was originally published in 1939, it's as fresh and entertaining today, as it was over sixty years ago.  Mervyn Peake's magical and whimsical text transports children to a pirate ship on the high seas for a once in a lifetime adventure.  But it's Mr Peake's amazingly detailed illustrations, full of imaginative and engaging characters, that really makes this picture book stand out.  Together, word and art create a timeless masterpiece.  Perfect for youngsters 5 and older, Captain Slaughterboard Drops Anchor is a wonderful read-aloud classic the entire family can enjoy, and a treasure to share with friends and pass on to future generations.	2001-12-11
1737821:US	52793250	R1EY4THR6Q4PEW	0873587537	246793602	Clarence Goes Out West & Meets a Purple Horse	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Special Tale of  Love and Friendship.....	Clarence, a city dwelling little pig, sets out on his first big vacation to a dude ranch, out west.  After a long and interesting bus ride, he arrives and meets Smoky, a very large and friendly purple horse who introduces him to all the pleasures of western ways.  Smoky takes him on long rides through the mountains and canyons, teaches Clarence to play cards with the boys, line dance, and perform on the washtub in a cowboy band.  They eat, nap, and even read stories together.  It's a wonderful week.  But as his vacation comes to an end, Smoky tells Clarence he's getting too old to work on the ranch anymore, and is going to be sold.  Best friends are hard to come by, and Clarence can't stand the thought of never seeing his favorite horse again.  So he uses all his bus money to buy Smoky, and together they begin the long ride back to the city.  It may take years, but as long as they're together, they have all the time in the world.....  Jean Ekman Adams has written a delightful story with a gentle message about loyalty, compassion, and friendship, that won't be lost on young readers.  Her simple and engaging text, with its satisfying, happily ever after ending, is beautifully enhanced by her charming, bold, and vibrant illustrations, full of endearing ranch characters, and subtle, humorous detail.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Clarence Goes Out West And Meets A Purple Horse, is a sweet and entertaining, feel good story, that is sure to put a smile on everyone's face.  This soon-to-be classic, is a  picture book youngsters will beg to read again and again.	2001-12-11
1738189:US	52793250	R1FQT19VOTOED4	0316693235	147933002	Violets Are Blue ~ Detective Alex Cross Series	Books	1	10	16	N	N	My Vote for Worst Novel of 2001.....	Two joggers are found in a San Francisco public park hanging by their feet, drained of blood, and covered with bite marks.  Could this be the work of modern day vampires?  Horrified local police want help with this one, and call in the FBI.  In no time, Washington, D.C. Police Detective, Alex Cross, is winging his way out west to consult on the case.....  After last years &quot;Mastermind&quot;, cliff hanger, readers probably thought that Violets Are Blue was going to be the big show down between Alex Cross and his nemesis, but not before he dispenses with this ridiculous vampire case.  James Patterson spends 320 pages basically repeating the same crime scene, full of gratuitous violence and gore, over and over again.  This a police procedural without any forensics, police work or details.  The story line is not gripping, suspenseful, nor compelling, and listening to Alex constantly whine and wring his hands, gets old fast.  The case is finally closed with an absurd ending that leaves all the loose ends hanging, and unexplained.  You get the feeling that even Mr Patterson couldn't come up with a plausible conclusion to his own story.  Now on to the Mastermind, the heinous murderer who's been terrorizing Alex and his family for years.  In just 70 pages, almost as an afterthought, Patterson wraps up this long running story line.  Everything about Violets Are Blue is disappointing, from the choppy, uninspired writing, and meandering, unbelievable plot, to the poorly drawn, one-dimensional characters.  This is a thriller without the thrills.  Violets Are Blue gets my vote for worst novel of the year!	2001-12-10
1740474:US	52793250	R1KXJ0S2XJBIMP	076361453X	903133473	Table Manners	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Bon Appetit!	For all parents who sit at mealtime giving directives, shaking their heads, and sighing as they watch their children chow down, there is finally a book about table manners kids will just eat up.  Chris Raschka and Vladimir Radunsky have provided the logical reasons in word and art, for all those things you've been telling your kids for years...please chew with your mouth closed, don't play with your food, use your napkin, wash your hands before you come to the table, no dessert until you eat your vegetables...  Written in hip, kid-speak language, their hilarious text is complemented by bold, bright and expressive artwork that will have readers laughing out loud and rolling in the aisles.  Perfect for kids 4-8, Table Manners is a high spirited, manic romp through the ins and outs of basic eating skills, and youngsters will have such a good time poring over this busy book, they may not even realize there are subtle messages and simple lessons behind all the fun.	2001-12-08
1741723:US	52793250	R2KL448EGQ4VK7	0670035009	982798393	Once upon a Fairy Tale: Four Favorite Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fairy Tales Made Special.....	Question:  What do you get when you mix 21 famous celebrities with 21 award winning illustrators.  Answer:  The Starbright Foundation's, Once Upon A Fairy Tale.  Come read and listen to the likes of Barbra Streisand, Robin Williams, Oprah, General Norman Schwarzkopf, Gwyneth Paltrow, Kelsey Grammer, Martha Steward, and Whoopi Goldberg as they spin an old fairy tale in a new and inventive way.  Each of the four stories, The Frog Prince, Little Red Riding Hood, Goldilocks And The Three Bears, and Rumplestiltskin is fresh, innovative, and told in hip, kid speak language from their characters' perspectives.  Artists Giselle Potter, Chris Raschka, David Shannon, J Otto Seibold, Jerry Pinkney, and many more renowned and celebrated illustrators, provide a veritable feast for the eyes as they enhance each story with color and style.  Perfect for youngsters of all ages, Once Upon A Fairy Tale is a delightful and hilarious book, complete with CD, the whole family can share and enjoy together.  It's great fun to read, and even more fun to listen to!	2001-12-07
1742064:US	52793250	R3PKYDCWEWO6KP	0399235760	868684647	Leonardo's Horse	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Moving and Evocative Story.....	Leonardo da Vinci had a dream.  When he heard that the Duke of Milan was planning to honor his father with the statue of a bronze horse, he knew he had to be the artist for the job.  &quot;This would be his mark on history.&quot;  Unfortunately, because of events often beyond his control, the sculpture was never completed, and it is said that Leonardo died in 1519, grieving for his horse.  Hundreds of years later, in 1977, an artist and art lover, Charlie Dent, read a story about Leonardo's horse, and it became his dream too.  He decided to complete the project, and give the horse to Italy as a gift from the American people.  Charlie studied horses just as Leonardo had, and worked tirelessly on the project, but he too became ill, and died in 1994, before its completion.  Friends of Charlie's wanted to see his dream fulfilled, and so they contacted a talented sculptor, Nina Akamu, to finish the project, and soon it became her dream too.  On September 10, 1999, Leonardo's and Charlie's dream was finally unveiled in Milan.  &quot;At last Leonardo's horse was home.&quot;.....  Jean Fritz has written a marvelously intriguing story, part history, part biography, and part art book, that captures the imagination and takes the reader on an amazing 500 year journey.  Her tender, simple, and easy to read text was obviously a labor of love, and is full of imagery and magic.  Ms Fritz's words are beautifully complemented by Hudson Talbott's spectacular, detailed artwork, that uses da Vinci's drawings and notebooks, along with his own expressive illustrations, combining pen and ink, colored pencil, watercolor, and collage.  Together they've authored a dramatic masterpiece that's sure to peak the interest of history buffs and art lovers everywhere.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, Leonardo's Horse also makes a wonderful read-aloud story the entire family can share.  Definitely one of the very best of 2001, this is a book that shouldn't be missed.  Bravo Fritz and Talbott!	2001-12-07
1742814:US	52793250	R1AOKIGFD4J56W	1929766130	603495633	The Midnight Ride of Paul Revere	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Masterpiece of History and Drama.....	Christopher Bing, author of the 2001 Caldecott Honor book, Casey At The Bat, is back with his innovative and creative interpretation of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's, The Midnight Ride Of Paul Revere.  His obvious love of history, meticulous research, and attention to detail transports the reader back to that long ago night.  This is a very visual experience.  Mr Bing's marvelously evocative illustrations give the appearance of old engravings in dark blues and subdued tones.  And the text itself, looks as if it was printed on yellowed parchment, and torn from an old book or diary.  Imaginations will soar as children examine historical objects, and re-creations of maps, military orders, and other documents, that appear officially sealed, and can be opened and read.  This adds to the drama and excitement of the poem, and brings Longfellow's words to life.  With additional end notes and historical information about the days leading up that fateful night, and beyond, and a short biography of Longfellow, Christopher Bing has authored a unique, interactive American experience.  Perfect for youngsters 8 and older, The Midnight Ride Of Paul Revere is a masterpiece to be treasured and savored each and every time it's read.	2001-12-07
1743574:US	52793250	R3H8IVUFPA13KN	0375814221	162378725	Hilary Knight's Cinderella	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fresh and Enchanting.....	We've all heard the Cinderella story many, many times...the mean stepmother, the ugly stepsisters, a kind fairy godmother who works her magic so that Cinderella can go to the ball, and of course, the handsome prince.  Hilary Knight has taken this old fairy tale and given it a gentler, fresh and engaging new life.  His simple and easy to read text is delightfully entertaining.  But it's Mr Knight's marvelous illustrations that really make this picture book stand out.  His expressive artwork, in warm and lovely subdued tones, is enchanting and filled with charming and humorous detail.  Together, word and art transport children to a magical once-upon-a-time place.  Perfect for youngsters 4 and older, Hilary Knight's Cinderella is a wonderful read aloud story the entire family can share, and is sure to bring happily-ever-after dreams to all your little ones.	2001-12-06
1744802:US	52793250	R2YIQAPVY6SHKD	0439110157	732359051	Gus and Button	Books	5	3	4	N	N	More Fun With Food.....	Poor little Gus and his dog, Button, live in a drab, brown mushroom world.  One day a great wind comes up, and blows a bright green &quot;something&quot; by their window.  Color!  Gus is so curious and intrigued, that he and Button decide to venture out into the cold, harsh world, and find out where this beautiful green thing came from.  So off they go on the journey of a lifetime, through the dangerous Howling Forest to see who and what lives on the other side.....  Saxton Freymann and Joost Elffers are playing with their food again, and have filled this inventive story with color, imagery and magic.  Their simple, rhyming text is kept to a minimum.  The real story is told in their amazing and innovative illustrations.  Scores of fruits and vegetables come to life as people, places, and things, and dance creatively through these pages as artichoke trees, friendly apples, oranges and peppers, mushroom people, watermelon boats, red cabbage rivers, and much, much more.  Youngsters will be mesmerized as they pore over the artwork, always finding something new and exciting with each reading.  Perfect for kids 4 and older, Gus And Button is a vibrant feast for the eyes that shouldn't be missed.  If you're new to authors Freymann and Elffer, make sure you go back and read their earlier books, How Are You Peeling and One Lonely Sea Horse for more produce fun.	2001-12-05
1749423:US	52793250	R2GZMT1OIX5HC2	067003505X	979399373	Madeline Says Merci: The Always-Be-Polite Book	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Good Manners Made Fun.....	&quot;The pages that follow offer advice/On how to be polite and nice./As you read, please keep in mind/It all comes down to being kind./Don't forget to think of others-/Parents, pets, and little brothers...&quot;  John Bemelmans Marciano, follows in his grandfather, Ludwig Bemelmans' footsteps with this new and inventive picture book, Madeline Says Merci.  His clever and humorous, rhyming text gives youngsters basic lessons in kindness and consideration, from saying please and thank you, sharing and taking turns, cleaning up, and apologizing, to writing thank you notes, learning how to properly say hello and goodbye, and much, much more.  His familiar and charming illustrations add to the fun, and bring Miss Clavel, Pepito, and the rest of the little girls onto the scene to help Madeline explain and demonstrate good manners.  Perfect for children 3-7, this &quot;always be polite book&quot; is a witty and creative must for Madeline fans everywhere, and is a wonderful addition to all home bookshelves.	2001-12-02
1750490:US	52793250	R3RGOUEOKO2UC4	0399147772	471003961	Orchid Blues (Holly Barker Novels)	Books	2	25	26	N	N	A Plot to Nowhere....	Orchid Beach Police Chief, Holly Barker, is working on a bank robbery and murder that's hit close to home, and turned very personal.  The well planned crime was almost perfectly executed, and the thieves didn't leave a shred of evidence behind, except for the body of an innocent bystander.  Now they're four million dollars richer, and Holly is on a mission to find the culprits and bring them to justice.  As she begins investigating what appears to be an inside job, she discovers evidence that points  to an unknown little town inhabited by a mysterious and closed-mouth group of gun lovers.  With the help of an old FBI friend, and her father, retired Army chief master sergeant, Ham, the three decide to infiltrate this clan, and find out what's really going on.....  Stuart Woods' latest is a silly and mindless read that goes nowhere.  The writing is uninspired, the dialogue, inane, and the story line thin, and neither suspenseful nor very compelling.   This book needs to be tightened up and given some direction.  His characters are lifeless and one dimensional, and need to be fleshed out.  At times, it's hard to tell the good guys from the bad guys, and even harder to care.  Mr Woods' all time favorite character, Stone Barrington, makes a cameo appearance, but it's never clear why he's there, and he adds nothing to the plot.  Add to that a predictable ending, with a lot of loose ends left hanging, and you have the makings of a mediocre novel, at best.  There are a lot of great thrillers out there, unfortunately Orchid Blues isn't one of them.	2001-12-01
1752714:US	52793250	R2QMS3QECH3SLF	0689846762	485521184	I Dreamed I Was a Ballerina	Books	5	31	31	N	N	The Beginning of a Dream.....	Taken from her 1922 memoirs, Pages Of My Life, dancer Anna Pavlova tells of her first experience at the ballet as a little girl.  Her simple and gentle words are full of imagery and passion as she relates the wonder of watching the Sleeping Beauty ballet...the sounds of Tchaikovsky's music, the mesmerizing beauty of the dancers, and the roar of the audience.  On that thrilling afternoon her love affair with dance began, and a dream commenced that set the course of her life.  Ms Pavlova's lovely text is enhanced by the magic and wonder of Edgar Degas' paintings.  His artwork transports the reader back to this long ago performance, and together words and art bring that day to life.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, I Dreamed I Was A Ballerina includes short biographies of both Pavlova and Degas, to complete the story, and is a masterpiece to be treasured by aspiring ballerinas and artists, everywhere.	2001-11-29
1754106:US	52793250	R29K7AOPZ5MSND	075964974X	337410317	One Wild Ride	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Jump On the Rollercoaster and Read.....	At 33, one time award winning screenwriter, Phil Paget, is a has-been.  He hasn't worked in more than two years, is living in a garage apartment, neck-high in debt, and with an ulcer that just won't quit.  So when producer, Herman Weintraub calls, he's eager to &quot;take a lunch&quot;, and hopeful that this might be the first step on his way back up the movie industry ladder.  But, Weintraub has other plans.  He's gotten himself into a big jam.  It seems Arnold Fischbein, Weintraub Production's comptroller, who also happens to be Herman's ex-brother in-law has gone missing, along with forty million dollars of company money, and he wants Phil to play detective and find him before the &quot;suits&quot; do.  Phil protests that he's no detective, writing about detectives isn't the same a being a real one, but Herman will hear none of it.  He's desperate, and he'll pay big-time.  Being a soft touch, Phil says he'll do his best, and with the little information Weintraub's given him, sets off on what turns out to be the misadventure of a lifetime.....  Aptly titled, Richard Wolf's latest novel is about to take you on One Wild Ride.  This is a comical, manic thriller, full of twists, turns, and more than a few surprises that will set you on the edge of your seat, and leave you there until you finish the last page.  His intense and compelling story line is filled with vivid and entertaining scenes, and his characters are well drawn and engaging.  But it's Mr Wolf's crisp and witty writing, and clever, irreverent dialogue that really makes this novel stand out, and once you start reading, be prepared to finish in one sitting.  You just won't be able to put this book down!  With a stunning conclusion and satisfying ending to tie up all the loose ends, One Wild Ride is a great read and a mystery/thriller that shouldn't be missed.  If you're new to author, Richard Wolf, be sure to read his first novel, Host To Homicide.  If you're already a fan, his latest opus doesn't disappoint.	2001-11-28
1755131:US	52793250	R15IEAC2CHWNLO	0152242007	770631556	Children of the Dragon: Selected Tales from Vietnam	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Favorite Folktales of Vietnam.....	As the introduction tells us:  &quot;To most Americans, the word Vietnam brings to mind one thing - a war fought in muddy rice fields and steamy jungles, as we've seen it depicted in movies and popular television programs.  Very few of us know much about the history, culture, or folklore of this ancient country.&quot;  Fortunately, Sherry Garland's new book, Children Of The Dragon, will begin to change our perception.  This superb collection of six folktales is engaging, rich in history, culture, and tradition, and includes author's notes at the end of each story to broaden understanding, and enrich its meaning.  From The Legend Of The Monsoon Rains, Chu Cuoi-The Man In The Moon, and The Raven And The Star Fruit, to How The Tiger Got Its Stripes, The Boatman's Flute, and The Bowmen And The Sisters, each folktale is entertaining, satisfying, and runs the whole gamut of emotions, from silly and amusing to poignant and tragic. Award winning illustrator, Trina Schart Hyman brings each tale to life with her marvelously vibrant and vivid artwork.  Perfect for youngsters 10 and older, Children Of The Dragon is a feast for both the eyes and ears, and is an intriguing and unique collection that transports the reader to another place and time.	2001-11-27
1757220:US	52793250	RR3HB02S7CLVV	0525466746	273758094	Sun Bread	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Warm Up Your Winter.....	&quot;The wind it whooshed, the snow it whirled,/The rain streamed down;  it sloshed and swirled/And washed the colors from the world.&quot;  It's cold and dark, dank and damp, and everyone in this little village misses the sun who seems to have gone into hiding.  In fact, the baker missed the sun so much, she decided to bake a &quot;sunny feast&quot;.  She worked very hard on her dough until it was just right, shaped it just so, and &quot;it seemed the sun shone in her hands!&quot;  Soon the smell of baking bread reached the entire town and everyone hurried to the baker's house for a piece of that wonderful sun bread.  &quot;Bread so brilliant, bright, and sunny,/Summer seemed to fill their tummies./Bread so fluffy and so fine,/They felt themselves begin to shine...&quot;  The sun bread made everyone feel so good, they forgot about winter and all the bad weather, and ran back outside to dance, play, and maybe, just maybe, coax the real sun out again.....  Elisa Kleven has authored a charming and entertaining story that will definitely warm you up on those cold and wet winter days.  Her lilting, rhyming text is only outdone by her marvelously bold and busy collage artwork, full of wonderful, expressive animal characters, and intricate detail.  Youngsters will love poring over the colorful, and engaging illustrations.  Perfect for kids 3-7, Sun Bread is a lovely read-aloud picture book the entire family can enjoy together, and includes an easy to follow recipe on the back cover, so that you can make and eat your own Sun Bread.  &quot;This bread, alas, won't make you fly.  But it is heavenly - light and high!&quot;	2001-11-26
1758795:US	52793250	R3VEULRGPEQPMY	0763614327	568576874	The Man Who Wore All His Clothes	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Rollicking, Madcap Adventure.....	Meet the Gaskitt family.  First there's Mr Gaskitt, a slim, loving father who gets up one winter morning and puts on all his clothes, layers and layers of underwear, shirts, pants, sweaters, jackets, coats, scarves, gloves, hats, and his plastic raincoat.  Then there's Mrs Gaskitt, an attractive mother who also drives a taxi.  There's the twins, nine year old Gus and Gloria, and Horace, the cat.  On the same morning that Mr Gaskitt put on all his clothes, Mrs Gaskitt got a call to pick up a gentleman at the bank, &quot;In half an hour - on the dot&quot;, the twins had a substitute teacher who piled them all into a school bus for a field trip, and Horace curled up in his favorite armchair to watch TV.  And as they all hit the road, to begin their day, the entire family's raucous, madcap adventure begins.....  Allan Ahlberg has written a delightful short chapter book that will have early readers laughing out loud and rolling in the aisles, as they watch this action-packed story unfold.  His easy to read, hilarious text is full of entertaining details, and asides from the cat, car radio, and even the refrigerator, and is complemented by Katharine McEwen's charming watercolor and crayon illustrations.  Together this dynamic duo have authored an engaging little tale that's full of twists, turns, and more than a few surprises.  Perfect for youngsters 7-10, The Man Who Wore All His Clothes is a silly, fun-filled, manic romp kids will love.	2001-11-25
1758922:US	52793250	R1ISJZN73YNS4A	0689835477	817658479	Hilary Knight's The Twelve Days of Christmas	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Joyous Holiday Tale.....	It's Christmastime, and Benjamin Bear looks out his window, and down the path to his beloved, Bedelia Bear's little cottage, and you can almost see the gift ideas popping into his furry head.  So, on the first day of Christmas, he arrives with a partridge in a pear tree, and the fun begins.....  Hilary Knight, author of Where's Wallace and The Owl And The Pussy-Cat, and illustrator of Kay Thompson's Eloise books, takes this old familiar holiday song, and turns it into a joyous and engaging picture book.  His marvelous artwork, full of bold, bright color, and expressive detail, grows busier, and more intricate with each page turn, until it almost spills off the paper.  Young and old alike will be mesmerized as they pore over the pictures, finding something new and fun each time they open the book.  With a delightful and creative surprise at the end to get everyone in the holiday spirit, Hilary Knight's The Twelve Days Of Christmas is a wonderful read-aloud book the whole family can share together, and is sure to become a &quot;must have&quot; classic to help usher in the Christmas season, year after year.	2001-11-25
1763666:US	52793250	R2KW1V215665QX	0375811133	699311624	Woody Guthrie: Poet of the People	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Voice of the People.....	Bonnie Christensen celebrates the life of Woody Guthrie, a true American original.  From his meager beginnings in Okemah, Oklahoma, he grew up during hard times, surviving tragedies and hardships, often with only his music for comfort.  While still a teenager, he took to the road, crisscrossing the country and listening to the plight of farmers, the homeless, migrant workers and others left in desperate circumstances by the Great Depression.  He soon became the voice of the people, using his songs to bring America together, and to speak out for justice, equality and peace.  He was an inspiration to many, and a  powerful voice for change.  Ms Christensen's gentle and lyrical text, full of history and drama, is complemented by her quiet, yet powerful and evocative illustrations.  Together word and art create a moving biography that introduces Woody and his music to a whole new generation of fans.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, Woody Guthrie:  Poet of the People  includes the lyrics to several of his best know songs, and a chronology of important events at the end to augment discussions and send kids out to their library, bookstore, or on-line retailer, looking for more about this amazing American.	2001-11-20
1764201:US	52793250	R1L5JO6HWMK9UZ	0786806524	945260520	Fly!	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Come, Make Friends and Fly.....	Jawanza loved to spend his days looking out his open window, high up, near the roof and sky.  From there he could see the children playing far below.  Better yet, he could watch the birds flying from rooftop to rooftop, doing their bird dances across the sky.  At times he shouted to them, &quot;Hey, birds!  Why you flying like that-all crazy bunched together-making pigeon clouds?&quot;  The birds never answered, but one day a voice from above called down to him.  There was an old man on the roof, a Mr Roderick Montgomery the Three, dancing with the birds, and Jawanza just had to go up and investigate.....  Christopher Myers, author of Wings, is back with another poetic and evocative picture book.  His gentle, lyrical text, full of imagery and magic, is complemented by his marvelously bold, bright and expressive artwork, and little imaginations will soar as they pore over the joy in each picture.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Fly is a special story of love, friendship and  freedom that will transport kids up to the rooftop, and into another world.	2001-11-20
1764205:US	52793250	R27VU7MSGGQ40K	0399233628	665578544	What Pete Ate from A to Z	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Amazing, Alphabetical Pete....	Meet Poppy Wise and her dog Pete.  When it comes to eating, Pete is far from discriminating.  If fact, he'll eat just about anything.  So Poppy begins at the beginning with the letter A and chronicles exactly what this ever-hungry canine has gotten into.  Moving letter by letter this includes Cousin Rocky's Accordion...All of it, a Camera, an Eggbeater, a Fez, and her brother's magic Key.  At the Lucky dog show he ate all the Leashes which Let Loose all the dogs.  A bit later he ate Mrs Parlsey's Pink Pocketbook, a Stinky Sneaker, Cousin Rocky's Underpants (Uggh!), and a Yo-yo.  And as Poppy finally tells us, the only thing Pete won't eat is Zug Zug Dog Grub.....  Maira Kalman has written a charming and hilarious walk through the alphabet that's full of unforgettable characters, wordplay, irreverent commentary, and witty asides.  Both kids and adults will smile, giggle and eventually laugh out loud at the antics of four legged eating machine.  Her delightful and energetic text is told in an easy to read, conversational style, and complemented by bold, bright and busy child-like artwork.  Youngsters will enjoy poring over the pictures and finding all the silly details on each page.  Perfect for kids 4-8, What Pete Ate From A-Z is a special, joyous romp, that makes a terrific gift, and is a wonderful addition to all home bookshelves.	2001-11-20
1764708:US	52793250	R1ZY77FL1KNB0C	0689831730	623822106	How Santa Lost His Job	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Could Santa Be Replaced?	Santa had his own way of doing things.  Every year before the big ride he checked the weather, looked over his maps, took a nice bubble bath, trimmed his beard, polished his boots, got the reindeer fed and ready, and packed his sled.  It was always hectic, and there was always a last minute rush.  Some of the elves complained, wishing Santa would plan better, and not waste so much time.  But what could they do?  Santa was only human.  Then one little elf, Muckle, had an idea.  He worked on his secret project for months, and in late fall unveiled the &quot;Deliverator&quot;.  Muckle claimed it could travel around the world and deliver presents faster and better.  Could this be the end of Santa?  Could he really be replaced?.....  Stephen Krensky has written a charming and amusing story, with a gentle message, that will put a smile on the faces of young and old, alike.  His simple and clever text is beautifully complemented by S.D. Schindler's expressive and detailed artwork, and together they've authored a delightfully warm story that helps kids understand that faster isn't always better.  Sometimes it's the personal touch that makes something special.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, How Santa Lost His Job is a wonderful addition to this year's Christmas picture books, and a terrific story to help usher in the holiday season.	2001-11-20
1767302:US	52793250	R33VQ71M6KW434	0399237410	576193709	Jan Brett's Christmas Treasury	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A Marvelous Holiday Experience.....	Come spend the holiday season with Jan Brett.  This magnificent oversized collection of her best, and your favorite Christmas stories celebrates the magic and joy of the holiday season through words and art.  From The Mitten, The Wild Christmas Reindeer, Trouble With Trolls, and The Twelve Days Of Christmas, to The Hat, Christmas Trolls, and The Night Before Christmas, each tale is filled with the love and warmth of timeless, endearing characters, and exquisitely expressive artwork, that will mesmerize both young and old as they pore over all the brilliant detail.  These are classic stories to be shared and savored by everyone in the family, again and again, year after year;  a feast for both the eyes and ears that brings the glory of winter and the holidays to your home.	2001-11-17
1767887:US	52793250	R2XBC7UO3KM13K	0689826060	83794941	The Magic Menorah: A Modern Chanukah Tale	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Real Meaning of Chanukah.....	Stanley Green never looked forward to Chanukah.  He felt it was more trouble than it was worth.  All his relatives came to his house with their sloppy hugs and kisses, his little cousins fought and yelled, got into his things, and made a big mess.  There was too much cooking, and his arm ached from grating potatoes and chopping onions for the latkes.  And there was too much cleaning before the celebration, and even more afterwards.  Worst of all, on Chanukah, a supposedly happy holiday, his Grandpa Abe was always quiet and very sad.  This year something new was added to the usual routine.  Stanley was sent up to the attic to find an old wrapped package in the large trunk.  He'd never seen it before and with his curiosity getting the better of him, carefully opened the brown paper to find a tarnished menorah.  As he began to wipe off the dust, he wondered why anyone would want this old thing.  Just as he finished examining it more closely, and polishing the shammash until it glowed, the floor began to shake, a big puff of smoke erupted, and a very old man appeared in front of him.....  Jane Breskin Zalben has written a lovely and memorable Chanukah story, with a simple and gentle message, that won't be lost on young readers.  Her engaging and entertaining text, complete with yiddish words and expressions, is complemented by Donna Diamond's old photograph-like artwork, and together they've authored a tender and poignant story of love, family, and the true meaning of happiness.  There's even a glossary included at the end of the story, to help with the yiddish and enhance learning.  Perfect as a reading book for youngsters 8 and older, The Magic Menorah makes an even better read-aloud story the entire family can share and enjoy together.	2001-11-17
1768602:US	52793250	RA504TQO323QR	074321269X	127561717	The Jasmine Trade: A Novel of Suspense Introducing Eve Diamond	Books	5	12	13	N	N	An Intelligent and Gripping Debut.....	Los Angeles Times reporter, Eve Diamond, thought it was just another suburban carjacking gone wrong.  Seventeen year old Marina Lu, on her way to order bridesmaid dresses for her upcoming wedding, was now lying dead in the shopping center parking lot, shot in the head.  But as Eve looks first into the death, and then the life of this teenager, whose existence was filled with all the advantages that money, status and the upper class provided, she begins to discover that all was not as it seemed.  The more she investigates, the deeper she plunges into the desperate lives of rich parachute kids, teenagers left alone in America to fend for themselves while their parents live and run lucrative businesses from Hong Kong, Asian gangs, and the &quot;jasmine trade&quot;, smuggled immigrant Asians brought to America, and sold into prostitution.  What started as just a sad, local crime story, has now turned into a deadly mission, and Eve vows to find the truth, no matter what the cost.....  Turn off the phone and lock the door, Denise Hamilton's debut novel, The Jasime Trade, is about to keep you up reading, all night.  This is an intricate thriller that grabs you from page one and never lets go.  The plot is tight, tense and compelling, with vivid and riveting scenes that set you on the edge of your seat, and keeps you there.  The writing is intelligent, crisp, and spare, and her well drawn characters, original, engaging and very believable.  Complex and intriguing, Eve Diamond, is definitely one of the best new leading ladies, or men, to pop up on the mystery/thriller scene this year.  It is obvious that Ms Hamilton did her homework, and her indepth knowledge of Los Angeles and the Asian community transports the reader to another world, and adds real credibility to the story.  With a stunning climax and satisfying ending that ties up all the loose ends, The Jasmine Trade is hopefully the beginning of a marvelous new series starring a remarkable heroine, that shouldn't be missed.  Be sure and put this novel at the top of your &quot;must read&quot; list!	2001-11-16
1771260:US	52793250	R175I9CKKQMXK6	0060286245	926515352	Little Lit: Folklore and Fairy Tale Funnies	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Smorgasbord of Fun.....	Where have all the old fashioned comics and comic books gone?  You know, the ones with humorous and entertaining story lines, and busy, splashy pictures that kids would pore over, mesmerized, for hours.  They seem to have all but disappeared.  Fortunately, Art Spiegelman and Francoise Mouly have remedied this situation with their marvelously creative book, Little Lit.  They've collected folklore, fairy tales, games, and puzzles from the best and brightest cartoonists, children's book authors, and illustrators and compiled them into one oversized book of endless fun.  From Kaz's The Hungry Horse, and Barbara McClintock's The Princess And The Pea, Joost Swarte's The Leafless Tree, and Walt Kelly's The Gingerbread Man, to What's Wrong With This Picture, Spookyland and even an inventive board game, complete with pieces, these stories and activities range from the outrageous, to the thoughtful, silly, and funny, but all include amazing bold, and intricately detailed artwork that captures the imagination and almost spills off the pages.  Perfect for youngsters 9 and older, Little Lit is an innovative treasure to read and share, that will entrance your kids and keep them busy for hours.	2001-11-14
1774021:US	52793250	R1X0EB80OSTA3V	0316363502	230928006	You Read to Me, I'll Read to You: Very Short Stories to Read Together	Books	5	42	43	N	N	A Joy to Read Together.....	As the Mary Ann Hoberman explains in her introduction:  &quot;Here's a book/With something new-/You read to me!/I'll read to you!/We'll read each page/To one another-/You'll read one side,/I the other...&quot;  This clever and unique picture book includes 12 very short stories, written like a dialogue, and based on simple, lighthearted, friendly themes, that are perfect for emerging, and early readers.  Each part is color coded for sharing and fun.  I read the purple lines, you read the red, and we read the blue lines together, and then maybe switch.  Ms Hoberman's joyous, rhyming text is full of rhythm, energy, and repetition and complemented by Michael Emberley's charming and humorous illustrations.  You Read To Me, I'll Read To You is a delightful introduction to the joys and wonders of both reading, and reading together.  As the author reminds your young reader at the end: &quot;...But there are other/Books to read./Hundreds/Thousands/All we need./Any time/In any weather/We can sit/Right down together./In the shade/Or in the sun/Choose a book/That looks like fun./One that's old/Or one that's new./Make-believe/Or really true./I'll read one line/I'll read two./You read to me./I'll read to you.&quot;	2001-11-12
1774361:US	52793250	R3HHL74XWCI93	0966950704	683350455	Recipes For Soccer Moms	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Must for Every Mother On the Go.....	As Linda Jane Ferstl tells us on her Welcome page, &quot;This book was a labor of love and survival!&quot;  And for all of us scrambling to get dinner on the table, snacks to the games and practices, and fun foods to the parties, this cookbook will be a lifesaver.  Ms Ferstl has packed this volume with recipes that use nutritious ingredients, are easy to make, with little preparation time, and are kid tested and approved.  From beverages, appetizers, and party foods, to main dishes, quick meals on the go, desserts, and even veggies, this is a cookbook you'll actually use.  Linda Jane has also included rules, travel tips, sports diet ideas, and other helpful strategies and suggestions, to make everyone in the family's sports season more enjoyable and less stressful.  Recipes For Soccer Moms is a treasure, makes a great gift, and is definitely a cookbook that won't be left sitting on your shelf collecting dust!	2001-11-12
1775264:US	52793250	R2TA3IV8OP86V5	1570717435	169069034	First Lady	Books	3	9	10	N	N	The Saga Continues.....	Hillston, North Carolina Police Chief, Cuddy Mangum has his hands full, and it looks like his beloved job is on the line.  Just as he's being recognized, nationally, as an innovative crime fighter, and his department is ranked number one in small cities in the south, there appears to be a serial killer loose in Hillston, murdering and mutilating women.  To make matters worse, this brazen killer seems to be taunting and challenging Cuddy and his best friend, Homicide Lieutenant, Justin Savile V, personally, leaving the two of them messages on the bodies, and clues in their offices, homes and cars.  The entire police department is running in circles, and beginning to look both inept, and incapable of solving these crimes.  As the body count rises, North Carolina politics come into play, and Cuddy and Justin are issued an ultimatum...solve these crimes, now, or turn in your resignations.....  After ten years, Michael Malone is finally back with a new mystery starring his most memorable characters, Cuddy Mangum and Justin Savile V, from  his critically acclaimed novels, Uncivil Seasons and Time's Witness.  Unfortunately, First Lady is not nearly as good as the previous two books, and has some problems.  Though the writing is crisp and eloquent, and the dialogue, wonderful, the plot is neither tight, suspenseful, nor all that compelling, and tends to ramble all over the place.  Instead of being intriguing and intricate, the story line tends to be confusing and unbelievable and Mr Malone ties up the loose ends with a predictable and unsatisfying ending.  That said, his characterizations are brilliant and unrivaled, and he brings Hillston and the New South to life with imagination, and great insight, wisdom and humor.  If you're a Michael Malone fan, you probably won't want to miss the continuing saga of Mangum and Savile.  For those new to this author, go back and read his much better previous works, and enjoy.	2001-11-11
1776786:US	52793250	R31D7Y59DPP57Y	0385327218	903012720	Mr. Willowby's Christmas Tree	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Mr Willowby Brings in the Holiday Season.....	&quot;Mr Willowby's Christmas tree/Came by special delivery./Full and fresh and glistening green-/The biggest tree he had ever seen.&quot;  So big, in fact that when it stood in place in the parlor, it not only touched the ceiling but &quot;bent like a bow.&quot;  Mr Willowby realized that something must be done, and had his butler, Baxter, chop off the top.  And what happens to that tree top, makes for a wonderful and endearing Christmas story..... Originally published in 1963, Mr Willowby's Christmas Tree is just as fresh and magical today, as it was all those years ago.  Robert Barry's rhyming text is lyrical and joyous, and complemented by his delightful and expressive artwork.  Perfect for youngsters 3-8, this is a charming and simple treasure of a book that really captures the holiday spirit, and is a lovely read-aloud story the entire family will want to share again and again, year after year.	2001-11-10
1776790:US	52793250	RQ2V9EY8CLS4W	0385326521	925121754	Zigazak! A Magical Hanukkah Night	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Marvelous Hanukkah Fable.....	One winter night during Hanukkah, two devils flew over the old-world village of Brisk, and decided to wreak a little havoc on the poor townspeople.  With the magic word of ZIGAZAK, dreidels sprouted arms and legs and began to dance, latkes flew off their platters and soared around the room, Hanukkah candles exploded like fireworks, and musical instruments began to play songs all by themselves.  The villagers were terrified, and ran to the Rabbi's house for help.  The Rabbi looked at all that was going on and laughed.  A little holiday mischief didn't scare him, for he was a very wise and holy man, with a few tricks of his own up his sleeve..... Eric Kimmel has written a very entertaining and satisfying Hanukkah fable, with a simple message that won't be lost on young readers.  His engaging and amusing text is only outdone by Jon Goodell's bold and expressive illustrations that will mesmerize youngsters with their wonderfully busy detail.  Together, this dynamic duo teaches all of us that &quot;sparks of holiness exist in all things, even in devils' tricks.&quot;  Perfect for children 5-10, Zigazak is an enchanting tale, and definitely one of the best new Hanukkah stories, this year.	2001-11-10
1778480:US	52793250	R37AL1KUIFHWF7	0618055401	779287333	Shake, Rattle and Roll: The Founders of Rock and Roll	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Rock and Roll is Here to Stay.....	&quot;Back in the 1950s, there was a musical earthquake called rock &amp; roll that shook everything up.&quot;  So begins Holly George-Warren's introduction to Shake, Rattle &amp; Roll, and after detailing the origins of &quot;the new sound&quot;, she goes on to profile fourteen artists who were instrumental in making it happen.  From Bill Haley, Wanda Jackson and Fats Domino, to Elvis Presley, Chuck Berry, Buddy Holly and James Brown, kids will be fascinated as they read about the lives and careers of the musicians who helped start the rock and roll craze.  Each short biography is full of historical information, fun facts and trivia, and written in a hip, easy to read, conversational style.  Award winning artist, Laura Levine's marvelously bold and bright, folk-art style illustrations, complement Ms George-Warren's text, and show each artist surrounded by words and pictures from his/her best known hits.  Together they've authored an engaging and entertaining book that will peak the interest and whet the appetite of young music lovers, everywhere.  Perfect for youngsters 9-12, Shake, Rattle &amp; Roll is a joyous, fact filled treasure, and an introduction to rock and roll that shouldn't be missed.	2001-11-09
1778557:US	52793250	R2PT5MIUDYIB1R	0805063919	605526514	A Houseful of Christmas	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Houseful of Love.....	&quot;Every year the whole family came to Granny's for Christmas.&quot;  It was her favorite time of year.  She baked and decorated, wrapped presents, and on Christmas morning made her candied yam casserole.  Soon everyone arrived, chatty Aunt Fanny, and her skinny sister, Clarisse, Uncle Bert, the fireman, with his dog, Great-aunt Ruby, who always smelled like cherry cough drops, Aunt Ivy, and her three noisy little boys, Annie, Michael and little Otto, and of course, Lambert.  They ate Uncle Bert's famous smoked turkey and Granny's yams, opened their gifts, and sang carols while Granny played her accordion.  But this year something special and unexpected happened, they all got snowed in, and had a big sleepover on Granny's living room floor.....  Barbara Joosse has outdone herself with this joyous story of love and family, traditions, and togetherness.  Her simple text pulls the reader right into the story, and lets you enjoy the holiday as one of the family, and is complemented by Betsy Lewin's colorful and expressive watercolor artwork.  Together, they've authored a delightful picture book about making a lifetime of memories and remembering all the good family times.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, A Houseful Of Christmas is a lovely story your entire family can read and share together as you begin to get ready for the holiday season and make your own new memories.	2001-11-08
1779438:US	52793250	R1EWVN0WH5VMAE	0316366234	713074072	I'll Be Home for Christmas	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An Enchanting Christmas Story.....	It's late December and homebody, Puddle is happy to get a postcard from his ever-adventurous friend, Toot, telling him all about his family reunion in Scotland. But most of all he's happy to hear that his dear friend will be home in time for Christmas. And as Puddle gets right to work on his cards, decorations, and fruitcakes, Toot makes his arrangements to come home to Woodcock Pocket, so that they can celebrate the holiday together. But the weather doesn't cooperate, and after many delays, Toot finally lands in Boston, late on Christmas Eve. With a snowstorm raging, he can't find a bus, train or even a taxi to take him home, and so begins to hike through the deep, cold snow. Just when he thinks he can walk no further, a kindly visitor comes to his rescue..... Holly Hobbie has written an enchanting and magical story that is sure to put everyone right into the holiday spirit. Her simple, charming text is only outdone by her marvelously expressive, and evocative artwork, and both youngsters and adults will enjoy finding all the special little details in each picture. Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Toot &amp; Puddle: I'll Be Home For Christmas is a gentle, heartwarming, read-aloud story the entire family can share together, and a certain holiday classic, in the years to come.	2001-11-08
1779896:US	52793250	R3AK1IYRKD5B9M	0385326548	672597721	Peter Claus and the Naughty List	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Naughty or Nice?......	It was the part of the Claus family job, son Peter hated most, separating the naughty kids from the nice.  He knew first hand what it was like to be on the naughty list, since he was on it last year.  No presents under the tree.  &quot;Does it have to be that way?  Can't naughty kids get gifts too?&quot;  Santa was firm.  &quot;I didn't make the rules.  More nices than naughties and you go on the nice list and get lots of presents.  More naughties than nices and you go on the naughty list and get nothing.  That's the way my father taught me to do it when he was Santa, and the way his dad taught him.&quot;  But to Peter, it just didn't seem fair.  Santa didn't even know what those poor &quot;naughty&quot; kids did to get themselves on the list, in the first place.  So late that night, he hitched the reindeer to the big sleigh, and set off on a mission to help those naughty children before it was too late..... Lawrence David has written a delightful holiday story with a gentle message about fairness, forgiveness and saying you're sorry, that won't be lost on young readers.  His simple and straightforward text is beautifully complemented by Delphine Durand's charming and humorous childlike, geometric illustrations that are bold, bright, and wonderfully expressive.  Youngsters will enjoy poring over the artwork and finding all the special little details in each picture.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Peter Claus And The Naughty List is creative and original, a nice addition to your holiday picture book shelf, and a wonderful read-aloud story the entire family can share, discuss and enjoy together.	2001-11-08
1791668:US	52793250	R3L3GEIUT0GI5F	0060292873	864257528	Love That Dog: A Novel	Books	5	46	48	N	N	Beautifully Written and Inspirational.....	As Jack tells us in his writing journal on the first day of his class' poetry unit:  &quot;I don't want to/because boys/don't write poetry./Girls do./I tried./Can't do it./Brain's empty.&quot;  But as hard as he resists the idea, poetry begins to seep into that empty brain.  At first the works his teacher, Miss Stretchberry, introduces make little sense to him.  &quot;Why doesn't the person just/keep going if he's got/so many miles to go/before he sleeps?&quot;  Eventually, the poetry seductively captures him, and he writes about William Blake's, The Tiger:  &quot;I am sorry to say/I did not really understand/the tiger tiger burning bright poem/but at least it sounded good/in my ears./Some of the tiger sounds/are still in my ears/like drums/beat-beat-beating.&quot;  When Miss Stretchberry reads Walter Dean Myers', Love That Boy, it all comes together, and Jack is finally hooked, &quot;I copied that BEST poem/and hung it on my/bedroom wall/right over my bed/where I can/see it when I'm/lying/down.&quot;  As the story continues, he begins to open up, write his own verse, and with the guidance of his teacher and inspiration of his new favorite poet, finally puts down on paper the poem that's been inside of him all along just waiting to come out;  the story of his beloved dog, Sky, who was hit by a car.....  Newberry Award Winner, Sharon Creech, has outdone herself with this marvelously sensitive, sometimes poignant, often amusing little masterpiece.  Her simple text, told in free verse, and written in the voice of a ten or eleven year old, explores the power of words, their rhythm, and energy, how they can inspire, captivate, and elicit feelings.  Young and old, alike will be entranced as they begin this wonderful journey with Jack on his lifelong adventure with the love of words.  Ms Creech has included the poems used by Miss Stretchberry at the end of the book, and this is a good starting point for young poetry lovers.  Perfect for kids 9-12, Love That Dog is a treasure to be read and shared by everyone.	2001-10-29
1797822:US	52793250	R2HSUX86OS5G8K	0803714173	980345478	More Parts	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Please Try and Hold Yourself Together.....	Our young narrator tells us:  &quot;Things are bad-and getting worse!/Each day it's something new./With all the stuff I hear about/I don't know what to do.&quot;  Why just yesterday his toy truck wrecked and his mother consoled him by saying, &quot;I bet that broke your heart.&quot;  He didn't even know hearts could break apart.  Maybe wearing a big pillow will keep it safe.  And then his dad asked him to please &quot;give him a hand.&quot;  He didn't know hands came off, so he decided he'd better wear gloves and use lots of glue to keep them on his arms.....  Ted Arnold has really outdone himself with this clever picture book that explores figures of speech.  His witty, rhyming text is full of energy and humor and complemented by marvelously bold and expressive artwork depicting each worrisome idiom.  Youngsters will laugh out loud as they watch the narrator try to &quot;keep his head together&quot;, &quot;hold his tongue&quot;, &quot;scream his lungs out&quot;, and &quot;jump out of his skin.&quot;  In the end, his parents reassure him by explaining that these figures of speech are just descriptive expressions.  But the story ends just where it began when dad adds that he's glad they cleared up this misunderstanding, &quot;We thought you'd lost your mind.&quot;  Perfect for youngsters 6-10, More Parts is a delightful, very visual, manic romp that shouldn't be missed.	2001-10-24
1798318:US	52793250	R26X8XKZV5CADN	0805064125	643536417	The Little Wing Giver	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Beautiful, Evocative Story.....	Once upon a time a little boy appeared with a bottomless sack, full of wings.  There were fluffy white wings, scissor-pointed wings, gossamer wings, even wooden wings, in all shapes, colors and sizes.  The Little Wing Giver called out to all, &quot;Come get your wings./Beautiful wings!/Come get your wings/And fly, fly, fly!&quot;  And birds, insects and butterflies all came to him, and soon the world was full of flight.  But the wind grew jealous one night, and blew all the Little Wing Giver's wings away, forever.  The Little Wing Giver grew sad and very tired and lay down and fell into a deep sleep.  The birds sang to him and the insects tickled him, but he wouldn't wake up.  Finally, a nosy magpie saw one last pair of wings sticking out of the Little Wing Giver's pocket.  The creatures quickly attached them to his shoulders, and he soared away, up into the sky.  &quot;And it was on seeing the Little Wing Giver flying toward Him through a sunlit cloud that gave God the idea of creating angels.&quot;.....  Jacques Taravant has written a whimsical and evocative story, that will charm youngsters with its imagery and magic.  His tender text, and gentle message, is complemented by award winning artist, Peter Sis' enchanting illustrations and together they've authored a spiritual and uplifting story that's sure to become a classic.  Perfect for all ages, The Little Wing Giver is a wonderful family read-aloud story to share and discuss and pass on to loved ones, friends and future generations.	2001-10-24
1799055:US	52793250	RHJWHG1PHZG59	0380977702	428441908	Shadows of Sin: A Jessie Drake Mystery (Jessie Drake Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Murder and Mayhem in L. A.	Everbody loved Los Angeles plastic surgeon, Ronald Bushnell.  He was a devoted family man, good to his staff at work, and much loved by his patients.  So why would anyone want to kill him?  That's just what Detective Jessie Drake is determined to find out.  When she and partner Phil Okum walk into the surgeon's office, and survey the carnage at the crime scene, one thing is  obvious...this was very personal, a crime of passion.  As the investigation begins, Jessie finds that all was not so perfect in the Bushnell household, nor at the office, and that she and Phil have too many tight-lipped suspects, stonewalling their case.  But as they dig deeper, and secrets and lies begin to surface, Jessie realizes that the answers to this heinous crime are going to be found in the tragedies and mistakes of the past.....  The first chapter of Rochelle Krich's latest mystery, is so vivid and harrowing, that once you begin reading, you won't be able to put this novel down until you've finished the last page.  The plot is tight, tense, and compelling, and full of subtle twists, and surprises, the writing, crisp and entertaining and the characters, interesting, engaging, and true to life.  But it's Ms. Krich's intelligent, complex and empathetic, Jessie Drake, that really makes this novel stand out, and the subplots about her own dysfunctional family and new committment to Orthodox Judaism, add depth and credibility to both the character and the story line.  With its stunning climax and very satisfying conclusion, Shadows Of Sin is a well paced, terrific read, and definitely a book, mystery fans should put at the top of their &quot;must read&quot; lists.	2001-10-23
1801042:US	52793250	R1IUHLY7KCTFU6	0525466541	216792327	The Kid Who Invented the Trampoline: and Other Extraordinary Stories About Inventions	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Inventions Galore.....	Have you ever wondered how all those simple inventions, you know, the ones we use everyday and often take for granted, came about?  Well fortunately for us, Don Wulffson has always &quot;wanted to know&quot; and has taken the time to research, and compile a fascinating book about the origins of fifty common inventions, many that we use everyday.  Find out who invented Post-it Notes, toilet paper, napkins, and the pencil eraser.  Or maybe you've always wanted to know how ketchup came about, or hair coloring, deodorant, the toothbrush, or even the vacuum cleaner, and washing machine.  Well now you have the opportunity to find out.  Each short chaper is written in an easy to read, conversational style, and is chock full of historical information, fun facts, and trivia, including photographs, old advertisements, sidebars, and fact bubbles, to grab your attention, and enhance learning.  Perfect for youngsters 9 and older, The Kid Who Invented The Trampoline is a book that whets the appetite, and peaks one's interest, and once your kids start reading, it's a book they just won't want to put down.  So find out who invented the birthday cake, and the Happy Birthday song, and enjoy!	2001-10-22
1803341:US	52793250	R1RC1HX4HFYYJ1	0399234594	270010190	The Scariest Monster in the Whole Wide World	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Halloween is Coming.....	Last Halloween, Thea Dewhickey won second prize at the costume parade.  She was a beautiful fairy princess with silver slippers and a gold crown.  Her parents were so proud.  In fact, they had decided that this year she should win first prize and they had already started making costume plans.  Mother thought Thea should be a butterfly with filmy chiffon wings.  Dad thought she should be a Spanish dancer with red and black ruffles.  But when they asked Thea, she told them she wanted to be the scariest monster in the whole wide world with claws and fangs, green scales and blood dripping from her mouth and maybe even an ax sticking out of her head.  Needless to say, the Dewhickey's were not happy.  Monsters didn't win prizes.  So they decided to call in an expert, Grandma, to fix this little problem, and with a little creativity and a lot of ingenuity, Grandma comes through and saves the day..... Pamela Mayer has written a charming and amusing little story that will have both kids and adults giggling as they watch Thea make her case for being a monster to her disappointed parents.  Her simple and straightforward text is only outdone by Lydia Monks' bold, bright and wonderfully expressive collage artwork.  Together, they solve the problem of parents who get a bit carried away in an innovative way, and send a gentle message that Halloween, most of all, should be fun.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Scariest Monster In The Whole Wide World is a winner!	2001-10-19
1804629:US	52793250	R6DU7NLKV4IR8	0802776086	871629830	Strike Three, You're Dead (Harvey Bliss Mysteries)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Baseball and Murder...A Winning Combination.....	Center fielder, Harvey Blissberg, wasn't happy about the move.  After five good seasons with the Boston Red Sox, they left him unprotected in the expansion draft, and before he knew it, he was on his way to play for the Providence Jewels.  But that's baseball, and the season wasn't a total loss.  This was his best year, yet.  He was really in the groove, hitting above 300, leading the Jewels in batting, doubles and stolen bases, and dating the very beautiful and talented sportscaster, Mickey Slavin.  But all that good fortune came crashing down around him when his friend and roommate, relief pitcher, Rudy Furth, was found murdered in the club house whirlpool.  What kind of trouble could Rudy have been into that would get his head bashed in with a baseball bat?  As the days drag on with the police investigation going nowhere, a frustrated Harvey decides to take matters into his own hands and find the truth.....  It's easy to see why Richard Rosen's, Strike Three You're Dead, won the Edgar Award for best first novel.  This is a very intelligent and entertaining mystery, full of subtle twists and red herrings, vivid scenes, marvelous, engaging characters, and witty and irreverent writing and dialogue.  Mr Rosen's indepth knowledge and expertise in the world of baseball adds real credibility to the story and once you meet Harvey Blissberg, and the rest of the gang, you'll be hooked.  So sit down and get comfortable;  Strike Three You're Dead is about to grab you on page one and I can guarantee this mystery won't let you go until you've read the very last page.	2001-10-18
1806798:US	52793250	R13FOUUY0FF65E	0380809389	954468131	Murder Carries a Torch (A Southern Sisters Mystery)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	They're Back.....	When prim and size 6 petite, retired high school English teacher, Patricia Anne (Mouse), and her six foot, 250 pound, three times widowed, flamboyant sister, Mary Alice (Sister), get a call about a missing in-law, you can bet that trouble is just around the corner, with a capital T.  Cousin Pukey Lukey, so named because of an unfortunate problem with carsickness is out of his mind with worry.  It seems, his wife or forty-something years, Virginia, has run off with their housepainter and hasn't been seen or heard from in several weeks.  Luke's finally got a lead.  Said housepainter is also a snake-handling preacher, up on Chandler Mountain, and he wants the girls to drive with him and help him first find Virginia, and then convince her to come back home.  Luke is so pathetic, neither sister can refuse him, so off they all go to find the Church of Jesus is Our Life and Heaven Hereafter, where she's supposedly staying.  Virginia and her housepainting/preacher boyfriend are nowhere to be found.  But they do find the body of a young woman laid out on a pew in the church, and it looks like she was murdered.....  Anne George has written another light and charming mystery, starring her irrepressable Southern Sisters, who, as usual, have a penchant for being in the wrong place at the wrong time.  Her storyline is engaging and entertaining, her scenes, vivid and at times, laugh out loud funny, and her writing, down to earth, and filled with southern humor and dialogue.  But it's Ms George's wonderfully quirky characters that make this book stand out, and once you've been introduced to these sixty-something sleuths, and the rest of this terrific cast, you'll be hooked, for sure.  If you're new to this mystery series, do yourself a favor and start at the beginning with Murder On A Girl's Night Out, and read them all.  If you're already a fan, Murder Carries A Torch is another joyous romp through Birmingham, you don't want to miss.	2001-10-17
1807298:US	52793250	R1EAW5ID45D0W	0060284587	15320140	I'll Be You and You Be Me	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Timeless Treasure.....	Almost fifty years ago, Ruth Krauss and Maurice Sendak collaborated on this special little book, told from a child's perspective, about love and friendship (love is the same as like/only you spell them different-/only more of the same, sort of-/Love has more stuff in it!), and it is as fresh and meaningful today, as it was back in the early fifties.  I'll Be You And You Be Me is a marvelous collection of poems, stories, short plays, fairy tales and other bits of whimsy and imagination.  Ms Krauss uses her talented ear to capture the essence of a small child at play and you can almost hear that little voice talking and explaining his or her vision of life and the world, as you read (I went to you./I went to me./I went to/every where./And I went/THERE.).  Mr Sendak complements each written idea with his expressive and wonderfully detailed pen and ink drawings.  Together, this dynamic duo has authored a simple, gentle book full of childlike insight, wisdom and humor that will charm and delight both youngsters and adults.  Perfect for preschoolers, I'll Be You And You Be Me is a masterpiece and a timeless treasure to read together and share and pass along to friends family and future generations.	2001-10-17
1809267:US	52793250	RB84EM1GUU1UZ	0312251947	635817869	Naked Came the Phoenix: A Serial Novel	Books	1	6	10	N	N	A Thriller with Few Thrills.....	Caroline Blessing thought that maybe a two week stay at the exclusive, Phoenix Spa, in Virginia's Blue Ridge Mountains, was just what she and her newly widowed mother, Hilda Finch, needed.  A little luxury, gourmet food, an exercise regimen, and a lot of pampering, should help them begin to get past the death of her father and maybe close the distance that had grown between them.  But almost immediately after their arrival, all her good plans began to fall apart when spa owner, Claudia de Vries, is found dead, submerged in one of her own mud baths.  Now as the police and reporters descend on the spa, long held secrets of its famous and illustrious guests begin popping up all over, and Caroline realizes that everyone there is a suspect or potential victim.....  Thirteen of today's most popular and talented female mystery writers have come together to write this serial novel, each picking up the storyline where the last author left off, and adding the next chapter.  Unfortunately, instead of a seamless, compelling plot, full of suspense, twists, and red herrings, we get a silly, weak and contrived mystery that resembles a soap opera or Murder She Wrote episode.  The inane characters are unoriginal (the aging movie star, the waif model, the drunken producer...) and nothing more than caricatures and stereotypes, with no depth and less motivation.  And though the final chapter's author, Laurie King, tries to tie up all the loose ends into a neat, simple, and logical package, her explanation isn't plausible, or satisfying, and the ending just doesn't ring true.  Part of the proceeds from book sales are being donated to breast cancer research, and that's the only good recommendation I can give for buying this book.  There are a lot of good mysteries and thrillers out there.  Unfortunately, Naked Came the Phoenix isn't one of them.	2001-10-16
1814611:US	52793250	R25CUHJJOIHO22	068982954X	324546570	Olivia Saves the Circus	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Olivia...You've Gotta Love Her.....	It's Olivia's turn to tell the class about her vacation, and she can't wait.  &quot;Olivia always blossoms in front of an audience.&quot;  And so our feisty little pig begins the story about her day at the circus.  Of course, all the performers were out sick with ear infections, but &quot;luckily I knew how to do everything.&quot;  She tames lions and walks tightropes, performs on stilts, juggles, and even rides a unicycle.  Then she clowns, swings high on the trapeze, and is Queen of the Trampoline.  Finally, she ends her show as Madame Olivia and her trained dogs.  &quot;And that's how I saved the circus.  And now I am famous.&quot;  Olivia is very proud.  Her teacher is exasperated.  &quot;True?&quot;, she asks again and again.  &quot;Yes, to the best of my recollection&quot;, answers Olivia..... Ian Falconer has bettered last year's, Olivia, debut, and fans won't be able to get enough of this adorable and precocious little pig with her queen-size imagination.  His witty, yet simple text is kept to a minimum and really captures the preschool mind.  But it's his charming and clever charcoal artwork, with just a creative splash of color here and there to highlight his scenes, that really makes this book stand out.  Both children and adults will laugh out loud at the antics of this delightful little heroine.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Olivia Saves the Circus is a must for home libraries and a picture book kids will beg to read again and again.  Olivia is back and better than ever!	2001-10-10
1816904:US	52793250	R2ENXE7KHZ0LYJ	0689841132	428193874	Beyond the Dinosaurs: Sky Dragons Sea Monsters Mega-mammals And Other Prehistoric Beasts	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Wow!	We are all familiar with the fact that dinosaurs roamed the Earth millions of years ago.  But, they weren't alone.  Other creatures, now extinct, lived and roamed the Earth along with them and Howard Zimmerman has devoted his new and terrific book, Beyond The Dinosaurs, to exploring these fantastic prehistoric beasts.  He has divided this book into three categories, Sky Dragons (pterosaurs), Sea Monsters (marine reptiles) and Mega-Mammals, and filled each page with a wealth of fun facts and historical information.  His text, written in an easy to read, conversational style details when and where each animal lived, its size, how it looked, what it ate, and much more and includes marvelous, action-packed paintings by some of the world's best illustrators of prehistoric animals.  Youngsters will be mesmerized as they pore over all the wonderful detail in each picture.  From the Quetzalcoatlus, the largest pterosaur with a wingspan of 40 feet, to the Kronosaurus, a 45 foot sea monster, to the Wooly Rhinoceros and Smilodon (Saber-toothed cat), this is a fascinating book that children 9-12 won't be able to put down.  Beyond The Dinosaurs includes an instructive introduction, to set the stage, an index, and a list of special web sites kids can visit for even more information about their favorite creatures.  This is definitely a book older dinosaur enthusiasts shouldn't miss.	2001-10-09
1818806:US	52793250	R1FNOC10SSGT8W	0810945681	301620193	The Water Hole	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A Counting Book and Much, Much More.....	Visit the water hole where animals from all over the world and many different habitats come for a drink and a splash.  First there's the rhino, then two tigers, three toucans and four snow leopards.  Is it my imagination, or is the pool growing smaller?  Next come five moose, six catfish, seven pandas, eight ladybugs, nine tortoises and finally ten kangaroos.  &quot;There was nothing to say.  The water was all gone.  And the animals went away.&quot;  The earth is now dry and cracked, waiting for rain.  The sky grows dark, the clouds appear and splat;  one big drop hits the ground..... Graeme Base has outdone himself with this deceptively simple counting book.  His text, complete with humorous asides and wonderful animal sound effects is easy and fun to read.  But it's Mr Base's amazing, innovative and creative arwork that really makes this book stand out.  By using a die-cut hole, youngsters can actually watch the water hole get smaller and smaller with each page turn, until it all but disappears.  His detailed, lush scenes are a veritable feast for the eyes and beg to be explored.  Each bold, bright and busy page is bordered with the silhouettes of animal filled landscapes and if you look closely and very carefully, you'll be able to find these additional animals hidden in the pictures.  Perfect for children 4-8, The Water Hole is a counting book, science book, geography book and marvelous interactive book all rolled into one and a must for all home libraries.	2001-10-04
1818923:US	52793250	R3H1WESFJXBVTI	0375810838	288989785	You Read to Me & I'll Read to You: Stories to Share from the 20th Century	Books	5	170	173	N	N	Some of the 20th Century's Treasures.....	Janet Schulman, editor of the 20th-Century Children's Book Treasury, is back with another wonderful collection of stories, this time geared to emerging readers and beyond.  These 26 carefully chosen selections, from some of the 20th century's best known and favorite children's authors and illustrators, range from the true-to-life, autobiographical and poignant, to the magical, humorous and just plain silly.  But all have one important thing in common.  They beg to be shared and read aloud.  Included in this volume are the very best and brightest, a veritable smorgasbord of entertaining and engaging stories...William Steig's Amos &amp; Boris, Roald Dahl's The Magic Finger, Dr Seuss' Horton Hatches the Egg, Judith Viorst's The Tenth Good Thing About Barney, Crockett Johnson's Ellen's Lion, Judy Blume's Freckle Juice, Jon Scieszka's The True Story of the 3 Little Pigs, Maurice Sendak's Pierre, Florence Parry Heide's The Shrinking of Treehorn, Daniel Pinkwater's Blue Moose and much more.  All are unabridged and feature their original illustrations.  This is a collection that inspires the love of reading and invites you to read together, with your children.  Perfect for youngsters 4 and older, You Read To Me &amp; I'll Read To You is a masterpiece to share, savor and enjoy, now and in the many years to come.	2001-10-04
1820282:US	52793250	R2NJXOTMPDWLZI	0152020349	454910854	Monster Goose: A Magic Shop Book	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Meet Monster Goose.....	There she is, Monster Goose, looking at first glance, quite benign.  But take a closer look and she's got a rather evil glint in her eye, sitting with her laptop, tapping away and nursery rhymes, as we know them, will never be the same.  She's filled her poems with monsters, zombies, rodents and ghouls, creepy crawlies, maggots, slime and other assorted disgusting creatures and goo.  Mary no longer has a little lamb, but a vampire bat and the old lady in the shoe has turned into a zombie...&quot;She had so many maggots, she didn't know what to do.&quot;  Come meet Cannibal Horner, who bites off his own thumb, Weird Mother Hubbard and Werewolf Bo-Peep.  And if you're looking for a lullaby, try Hush Little Monster, (don't you whine), Sing A Song of Sea Slime or Twinkle, Twinkle Little Slug.....  Judi Sierra has give old Mother Goose a nice Halloween twist, with this marvelously clever, irreverent book of verse.  Her entertaining and engaging rhymes are depicted in Jack Davis' bold, bright and expressive illustrations and his busy artwork and attention to detail will have both youngsters and adults giggling and laughing out loud.  This is a unique and truly ingenious collection that can be shared and enjoyed by everyone in the family.  So don't wait for Halloween, Monster Goose is a wonderful read any and every day of the year.	2001-10-03
1820637:US	52793250	R1BP9511V3JH7Y	0805066810	7770130	Pumpkin Eye	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Trick or Treat	Caldecott Honor artist, Denise Fleming, has truly outdone herself with this spooky and mysterious celebration of Halloween.  From eerie shadows, swooping bats and clacking bones, to wretched witches, hissing cats and muffled moans, her evocative, simple, rhyming text, full of imagery and magic, sets the mood and is beautifully complemented by her bold, expressive, larger-than-life artwork.  Young imaginations will soar as they read this wonderful picture book and pore over all the special details on each page.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Pumpkin Eye really captures the very essence of Halloween night and is sure to get all young ghosts and goblins ready for seasonal fun.  &quot;Trick or treat/Pounding feet/Halloween has found our street!&quot;	2001-10-03
1820663:US	52793250	R1RVE0I65ZI6AX	0060281669	474069	Nutik & Amaroq Play Ball	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Nutik and Amoraq are Back.....	Amoraq, the little Eskimo boy and his best friend, Nutik, the wolf pup are outside for a day of play.  They decide to look for their lost football and wander out onto the tundra, farther and farther away from their village.  With Nutik's keen sense of smell, they find their football and play the morning away.  But as morning turns to afternoon, Amoraq becomes afraid that they are lost.  He can't see his village, or smell its smells.  It is then he remembers what his namesake, the great wolfpack leader, taught his sister, Julie, many years ago...look to nature for help.....  Jean Craighead George has written a delightful and engaging sequel to Nutik, The Wolf Pup.  Her great love and respect for nature really shines through in this picture book and her gentle text is beautifully depicted in Ted Rand's magical and evocative artwork.  Together, they transport readers to the top of the world, Alaska, and invite young imaginations to soar.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Nutik &amp; Amoraq Play Ball is the second book in this wonderful series for younger readers, written with great insight, wisdom and humor.	2001-10-03
1821609:US	52793250	R1KWN6WCJ73JA3	006028613X	533233342	Don't Know Much About the Solar System	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An Out of this World Experience.....	Do you know how old the universe is, why our galaxy is called the Milky Way, or why Venus is the smartest planet in the night sky?  Do you know how far away outer space really is, if you could stand on Jupiter, or catch a shooting star?  The answer to these and many other similar questions, can be found in Kenneth Davis' marvelous, fact filled, Don't Know Much About the Solar System.  This is a book chock full of interesting information, fun facts and trivia and history about the universe, galaxy, solar system, planets, moons, asteroids, meteoroids, comets, stars, space exploration and astronomy.  Mr Davis' text is written in an easy to read, question and answer, conversational style and complemented by Pedro Martin's humorous and engaging illustrations, that just add to the fun.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, Don't Know Much About the Solar System whets the appetite and leaves kids running to the library for more.  So find out if there are aliens living on Mars, and enjoy!	2001-10-02
1822666:US	52793250	R2GBJK56KFPGUW	0374343659	697194683	Larky Mavis	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Lovely, Whimsical Story.....	&quot;Down the road came Larky Mavis, mooning about, mooning about.&quot; She's a kind-hearted, simple minded, ragtag of a woman with a mop of red hair. She trips over three peanuts, eats two, and when she opens the third, finds what she's convinced, is a baby inside. She names it Heart's Delight because it makes her glad and carefully feeds and nutures it, carrying her baby with her in a basket, wherever she goes. Soon, Heart's Delight has grown so large that Larky Mavis wraps it up in an old tablecloth and carries it on her back. The townspeople, at first show contempt and disdain for Mavis and Heart's Delight, calling her baby, when they get a peek, a mouse, a deformed bird or maybe a bat and as it grows, a turkey in molt, a calf and a half or even a dragon and try to take Heart's Delight away from her. But Mavis is its mother and protects it with all her might. As the townspeople descend, a voice is heard from the wrapped bundle we've never seen, &quot;Let Go My Ma!&quot; and Heart's Delight finally appears to save the day..... Brock Cole has authored a clever and appealing modern day fairy tale with a simple message about tolerance, that won't be lost on young readers. The gentle and engaging text is complemented by his evocative and detailed watercolor artwork in subdued tones and youngsters will be entranced as they watch and wait for a hidden Heart's Delight to finally appear. Perfect for children 4-8, Larky Mavis is a masterpiece, sure to become a classic, and a wonderful addition to all home bookshelves.	2001-10-01
1822979:US	52793250	R2IAK0XK48865N	0140568328	338230703	Froggy's Halloween	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Ready for Halloween?	It's almost Halloween and Froggy still can't decide what costume to wear.  Should he be super frog, ghost frog or vampire frog?  How about a football player, cowboy or even a zombie.  All week he gets ready for Halloween, carving pumpkins and hanging spider webs and ghosts.  He's even practiced saying &quot;Trick or treat, smell my feet./Give me something good to eat.&quot;  Finally when the big day comes, Froggy decides to be the Frog Prince, complete with crown and sword.  Now he's off for a scary evening of tricks, treats, surprises and fun.....  No one captures the essence of a busy pre-schooler as well as Jonathan London and Frank Remkiewicz.  Mr London's lively text is full of sound effects, energy and humor and complemented by Mr Remkiewicz's bold, bright and expressive artwork.  Together they've authored a clever and entertaining story about an engaging character that your little &quot;Froggy&quot; will easily identify with.  This is the perfect read aloud story to help everyone get into the Halloween spirit. Froggy's Halloween is part of a marvelous series that youngsters just can't get enough of.  Read them all and enjoy!	2001-10-01
1823389:US	52793250	RVFT4LASLDM38	0688077781	331400526	Awful Ogre's Awful Day	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One Exciting, Imaginative Day....	Come spend the day with Awful Ogre, from the moment his rattlesnake and buzzard awaken him, until the end of his day when he snuggles upon his stony pillow atop his rocky bed.  He's huge and horrible and totally engaging as we watch him groom himself, eat his meals, write a letter, watch TV, dance, play music, dream and much, much more.  Jack Prelutsky and Paul Zelinsky have authored a collection of delightful, clever and humorous poems, that really capture the essence of the pre-adolescent mind and young imaginations will soar as they tag along and spend an exciting day with Awful Ogre.  Mr Prelutsky's poetry is full of rhyme, rhythm, energy and motion and complemented by Mr Zelinsky's marvelously bold and expressive illustrations and youngsters will enjoy poring over the artwork and finding all the special little details in each picture.  Perfect for kids 7 and older, Awful Ogre's Awful Day is a silly, amusing, inventive treasure and a wonderful read aloud book the entire family can share and enjoy together;  a book you definitely don't want to miss.	2001-10-01
1823485:US	52793250	R37X4UCQJKVAFO	0060196254	751205471	The Associate	Books	2	32	35	N	N	Roller Coaster of a Ride to Nowhere.....	Reed, Briggs, Stephens, Stottlemeyer and Compton is the largest and most prestigious law firm in Portland, Oregon and Daniel Ames, young, up and coming associate, still can't quite believe his good fortune of working there.  But when Reed Briggs' biggest client, Geller Pharmaceuticals, is sued for manufacturing a pregnancy drug that causes horrible birth defects and opposing attorney, Aaron Flynn, finds evidence, during discovery, that Geller is hiding studies that prove it was aware of the problem, Daniel finds himself to be the company scapegoat, blamed for incompetence and fired.  Within hours, senior partner, Arthur Briggs, is murdered and Daniel is arrested.  Now, as murder and mayhem ensue, Daniel is determined to sort out this mess and get to the truth and he finds that his life may depend upon it.....  Phillip Margolin is back with a readable, fast paced thriller, but this is also a book with problems.  The plot, though compelling at times, is more complicated than intricate and the convoluted storyline jumps around so much, it's confusing.  I found myself constantly flipping back and forth to keep track of who's who and what's what.  His characters have little depth and less motivation and you never really get inside their heads.  Add to that, an ending that leaves too many loose ends and unanswered questions and you have the makings of an unsatisfying novel that leaves the reader feeling cheated.  Phillip Margolin has written some great thrillers, Gone But Not Forgotten and Wild Justice, being among his best, but not this time out.  Do yourself a favor and skip The Associate.	2001-09-30
1824350:US	52793250	R97WYXBOK62AZ	0374368821	249597936	Shrinking Violet	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Violet Saves the Day.....	For as long as Violet could remember, she didn't like to be watched.  &quot;I am allergic to attention.&quot;  Being watched made her cheeks blush rhubarb red and when everyone stared, she itched and scratched and twirled her hair.  Class bully, Irwin, made things even worse.  He said she had fat knees, hairy arms and smelled liked deadly sewer gas and everyone stared.  &quot;I wish I could just shrink away,&quot; she thought.  When her teacher, Mrs. Maxwell, announces that the class will put on a play about the solar system and everyone will have a part, poor Violet is terrified.  But Mrs. Maxwell assures her that Lady Space is a mysterious voice, offstage, that is only heard and never seen.  The class practices and works hard and Violet especially likes her part.  During the performance, the play begins well, all the planets, stars and comets, asteroids, meteoroids and even the sun know their places and their lines.  That is, except Irwin, and that's when Violet steps in and saves the day.....  Cari Best and Giselle Potter have really captured the essence of the quiet, shy child and overt class bully in their charming picture book, Shrinking Violet.  Ms Best's text is gentle and sympathetic and complemented by Ms Potter's expressive and detailed watercolor artwork and together they've written an empathetic and amusing story with a simple message that won't be lost on young readers.  Perfect for kids 4-8, Shrinking Violet is a story told with great insight, humor and wisdom and youngsters will enjoy watching Violet &quot;bloom&quot; again and again, with each reading.	2001-09-29
1825262:US	52793250	R2500ANYYC0QDD	0380780860	2254741	Murder on a Girls' Night Out: A Southern Sisters Mystery	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Murder Made Fun.....	Meet Birmingham's sixty something southern sisters...that's big (250 pounds of woman), flamboyant, three times widowed, Mary Alice (Sister) and her petite and proper, retired English teacher sister, Patricia Anne (Mouse).  All the trouble started when Mary Alice decided, on the spur of the moment to buy a country western bar, the Skoot 'n' Boot, because she and her main squeeze of late, have been into line dancing and the Skoot's the place to be.  Patricia Anne thinks her sister has lost her mind, but has to admit the joint has appeal and real possibilities.  That is, until the former owner is found murdered and hanging in the establishment's wishing well and the Skoot is completely ransacked.  Now, as their curiousity gets the better of them, they're drawn into the case and these two aging belles aren't stopping until they get some answers.....  Anne George has written a lighthearted mystery full of southern charm and humor.  Her writing is crisp, with a talented ear for dialogue, her plot, entertaining and her scenes, true to life and laugh out loud funny.  But it's Ms George's wonderfully quirky and engaging characters that make this novel stand out and once you've met the southern sisters and company, you'll be hooked, for sure.  This is the debut of a terrific series that just gets better with each installment.  So, travel to Birmingham, meet the ladies, dive right in and read them all.  You won't be disappointed.	2001-09-28
1826839:US	52793250	ROLE9NZ7KYWQ	0345447832	383802287	The Surgeon	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Grabs You and Never Lets Go.....	There's a serial killer loose in Boston, first torturing and mutilating women in a very methodical way and then viciously killing them.  The press have dubbed him &quot;the surgeon&quot;.  His crimes are grisly and he's very clever.  As the body count rises, homicide detectives Thomas Moore and Jane Rizzoli are working the case round the clock and getting nowhere fast.  That is, until they discover that two years ago an almost identical crime spree occurred in Savanah, Georgia.  There, the killings stopped when the last victim, Dr Catherine Cordell, was able to fight back and shoot her attacker.  Now she's living and working in Boston and though it's impossible, &quot;the surgeon&quot; seems to have followed her there.....  Turn off the phone and lock the door because The Surgeon is about to keep you up reading, all night.  This is an intricate medical thriller that has it all:  a tight, tense, well-paced plot, full of intense and riveting scenes, crisp, suspenseful writing, terrific well-drawn and engaging characters and a diabolical villian who makes the hair on the back of your neck stand up.  Tess Gerritsen has really honed her craft and her indepth medical knowledge and great attention to detail add real credibility to the story.  Add to that a stunning climax and satisfying ending and you have the makings of a superb read that shouldn't be missed.	2001-09-27
1827783:US	52793250	RYEFATAFRODG7	0763606588	648958093	The Friday Nights of Nana	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Sabbath Is Coming.....	&quot;The Friday nights of Nana begin early Friday morning...&quot;  There's so much for little Jennie and her Grandmother to do.  Clean and straighten the house, iron the good tablecloth and fold the lace napkins.  Then off to the kitchen to bake challahs and pie and polish the candlesticks.  After lunch it's time to buy their favorite violet-colored flowers for the table, put the chicken and potatoes in the oven, set the table with Nana's best china and silver and get changed into their special blue dresses for the Sabbath.  And as darkness falls, the doorbell rings and in comes the family, Jennie's parents and baby brother, aunts, uncles and cousins.  Outside, it's cold, the wind blows and it begins to snow.  But inside, Nana lights the candles and quietly says the prayers as the whole family sits down together for Sabbath dinner.....  Amy Hest has written a tender and gentle story that transports children to Nana's house and shows them the joy of special family traditions.  Her warm and simple text is beautifully complemented by Claire Nivola's evocative illustrations, full of wonderfully expressive detail.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Friday Nights Of Nana is a lovely read-aloud story the whole family can share, that will warm your heart and maybe, be the start of a new tradition in your house.	2001-09-26
1828170:US	52793250	R1Y4II6BSFNO3H	0802787711	710505753	Trouble on the Tracks	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Watch Out for &quot;Trouble&quot;.....	&quot;All aboard!  Next stop, Black Paw Crossing!&quot;  The engineer makes his final train check, a few last minute passengers climb aboard, the conductor gives the all-clear and we're off.  The train pulls away from the station and begins its journey across the countryside.  Oh Oh...looks like there's trouble ahead on the tracks.  That's Trouble with a capital T, because Trouble is the &quot;engineer's&quot; cat.  A cat who likes to &quot;upend&quot; trees, &quot;trample&quot; houses and &quot;derail&quot; TOY trains.....  Kathy Mallat has authored a charming picture book with a clever twist that will delight and amuse your little engineer.  Her spare, simple text takes a backseat to the beautifully bold and colorful artwork that really tells the story and youngsters will love poring over all the marvelous detail in each picture.  Trouble On The Tracks is just right for pre-schoolers and emerging readers and is a story all young train lovers will want to read again and again.	2001-09-26
1829594:US	52793250	R1UVNN60C0Z4YZ	0399233520	7527191	That's My Dog	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One Really Great Dog.....	As our young narrator tells us at the beginning, &quot;I've got a dog.&quot; And with that one little sentence, this proud owner is off and running, as he describes his wonderful pet in detail. He's a red dog, a big red dog and he's happy and muddy and smart. He's bouncy and slobbery and sometimes very sneaky. And he's stinky, &quot;the most stinky dog I've ever met!&quot;  But most of all, we're told on the last page, &quot;That's him!/That's my dog!/Isn't he a great dog!&quot;..... Using color, changing type sizes, creative spacing, motion and energy, Rick Walton and Julia Gorton have authored an innovative and inventive little book about adjectives. The simple text builds on itself with each page turn until it practically explodes off the page, and is complemented by Ms Gorton's bold and expressive artwork as she uses the descriptive language to draw boy and dog. Perfect for pre-schoolers and emerging readers, That's My Dog is a little treasure of a book and a story kids will want to enjoy again and again.	2001-09-25
1829849:US	52793250	R1GNWXU1WLV6WD	0892966904	561029068	Point Deception	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Tense, Edgy Thriller.....	Soledad County Deputy Sheriff, Rhoda Swift, had only been on the job three weeks when she was called to the scene of the mass murders in Cascada Canyon. A terrifying, grisly scene with eight dead, two of them children, all shot. Mistakes were made, evidence was lost and the case was still unsolved. The town and townspeople of Signal Port had never been the same, circling in a downward spiral ever since that fateful night. Now, thirteen years later, on the anniversary of the murders, New York City true-crime writer, Guy Newberry, has shown up to research the massacre for a book he's planning to write about a &quot;town in trouble&quot;. No one wants Guy bringing attention to what is left of their small town and the infamous event most feel is best forgotten and Signal Port closes ranks. But when the body of a young woman is found, washed up off Point Deception, and within days two other women go missing, the town hunkers down, full of fear and suspicion, afraid that their lurid history may be repeating itself..... Marcia Muller has written an intriguing mystery/thriller that's about to take you on a fast paced, roller coaster of a ride. The tight, compelling and intricate plot and vivid, riveting scenes are full of atmosphere and you can almost feel the damp, chilly fog and smell the ocean as you read. Her well drawn, interesting characters come alive on the page and Ms Muller's indepth knowledge of Northern California and her painstaking attention to detail add real credibility to the story. Add to that a stunning climax and very satisfying ending and you have the makings of a well written, superb thriller that should be at the top of every mystery fan's &quot;must read&quot; list.  Marcia Muller never disappoints and she's not starting now!	2001-09-24
1832706:US	52793250	R2TEZHYWUJRYUH	0763607916	440649267	Fabulous Monsters	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Meet the Monsters.....	Marcia Williams is back doing what she does best, retelling five classic tales from ancient times and as the table of contents reminds you: &quot;DANGER Monsters on the Prowl!&quot; Told in her wonderfully engaging and entertaining comic book format are the stories of the Roman monster, Basilisk, The Bunyip, from Aboriginal mythology, the Norse legend of Grendal, from Beowulf, the three headed Chimera, from Greek mythology and Isikukumanderu, an African she-monster from Bantu folklore. Each intriguing tale is written in a straight forward, easy to read text and depicted in Ms Williams signature bold, expressive and detailed artwork that's sure to whet the appetite and leave kids wanting more. Perfect for youngsters 8-12, Fabulous Monsters is a marvelous introduction to mythology, folklore and ancient legend and is sure to send you back to your library, on-line bookstore or retailer looking for more.	2001-09-21
1833612:US	52793250	R3LWA23X0D9LGV	0689843941	490214499	Marsupial Sue Book and CD	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A Hopping Good Time.....	Poor Marsupial Sue, she just hates being a kangaroo. All that hopping around gives her a backache, headache, sideache and even a tummyache, so she sets out to try and be something else. The life of a Koala looked good, until she fell out of the tree and living by the sea as a Platypus seemed nice, until she got sick eating all that seafood. She'd just have to try something else. Just then she sees a Wallaby. He looked a lot like Sue, only smaller and was having such a great time bouncing and flouncing and jouncing along, that she just had to join him and it was fun. So Sue learned the most important lesson of all: &quot;Be happy with who you are./Don't ever stray to far from you./Get rid of that frown/And waltz up and down/beneath a marsupial star./If you're a kangaroo through and through,/Just do what kangaroos do.&quot;..... John Lithgow has written a silly, funny, joyous song and picture book, with a gentle message, that will delight youngsters with it's bouncy energy and lilting rhyme. His humorous text is complemented by Jack Davis' bold, bright and expressive artwork, full of charming detail and kids and adults alike will giggle as they watch Australia's sunglassed, hat wearing, Birkenstocked denizens do their thing. Complete with sheet music and CD, Marsupial Sue is perfect for youngsters 3-7 and is a book the entire family will enjoy reading and singing together and with its catchy waltzing rhythm, even dancing, too.	2001-09-21
1837491:US	52793250	RQC2DA5WA3SBU	0399234160	916162825	Stand Tall, Molly Lou Melon	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Molly Lou Melon is a Winner.....	Molly Lou Melon is the shortest girl in the first grade, has buck teeth that stick out so far she can stack pennies on them and has a voice like a bull frog squeezed by a boa constrictor. But she also has a very wise Grandma who has always told her to walk proudly, smile big, sing out loud and clear and &quot;Believe in yourself and the world will believe in you too!&quot; Unfortunately, her family moves away from Grandma and now Molly Lou Melon has to go to first grade in a new school. And on her first day she meets Ronald Durkin, class bully. He calls her shrimpo and bucky-tooth-beaver and follows her around calling out honk-honk and making fun of her schoolwork. But Molly Lou remembers everything her Grandma told her and soon Ronald Durkin is put firmly in his place..... Patty Lovell has written an uplifting and engaging picture book with a gentle message that won't be lost on young readers. Her simple, yet powerful text is complemented by David Catrow's bold, bright and joyous artwork and together they've authored a terrific story that's summed up on the book's last page, in Molly Lou's letter to her Grandma...&quot;Everything you told me was exactly right.&quot; Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Stand Tall Molly Lou Melon is a treasure you'll want to read and share, told with great insight, wisdom and humor.	2001-09-17
1837685:US	52793250	R376U98AR4C2UG	0060247983	795566350	My World: A Companion to Goodnight Moon	Books	5	50	55	N	N	A Gentle, Simple Masterpiece.....	Those who were raised on and loved Goodnight Moon will be thrilled to see its companion book, My World, back in print after a 30 year absence. Get reacquainted with the rabbit family as little bunny explores the safe and familiar world around him. Margaret Wise Brown's gentle, understated text: &quot;Mother's chair./My chair./A low chair./A high chair.&quot; or &quot;Daddy's boy./Mother's boy./My boy is just a toy./Bear&quot; is soothing, poetic and rhythmic and beautifully complemented by Clement Hurd's engaging family scenes. In My World he alternates black and white pages featuring the simple items of little bunny's life, Daddy's toothbrush hanging beside little bunny's toothbrush, a large and small comb lying next to each other or Daddy's slippers next to bunny's own pair of slippers with full color more expansive family spreads, the family preparing and eating breakfast or all washing up and getting ready for bed. Perfect for children as young as one, My World is a comforting, reassuring, timeless treasure to be read again and again and shared and passed down to future generations.	2001-09-17
1838380:US	52793250	RJ0VVX6LWFC9K	0763615706	556377367	I Am Not Sleepy and I Will Not Go to Bed (Charlie and Lola)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Lola's Back.....	For all those who loved I Will Never Not Ever Eat A Tomato, Lola and her ever-patient brother, Charlie, are back and this time he's faced with an even bigger challenge...putting Lola to bed. She's just never sleepy and loves to stay up late coloring and scribbling, sticking stickers and wriggling, bouncing and most of all chattering. In fact, she tells him she's just not ever tired. &quot;I will probably still be perky at even 13 o'clock.&quot; But Charlie is experienced in the procrastinating ways of a very imaginative Lola and has a creative solution for each and every one of her stall tactics..... Lauren Child has written another charming and amusing story featuring the irrepressable Lola and youngsters will delight in all of her antics as she tries to stay up later and later. Ms Child's humorous and realistic text is only outdone by her marvelously detailed artwork that combines photographs, collages, childlike drawings and different font colors and sizes into an illustrative feast for the eyes. Perfect for youngsters 4-8, I Am Not Sleepy And Will Not Go To Bed is a wonderful bedtime story that's sure to tickle the funny bone of your little &quot;Lola&quot; and a book kids will beg to read again and again.	2001-09-16
1838781:US	52793250	RD432880VYE2G	076361209X	151376236	Bravo, Mr. William Shakespeare!	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Bravo!	As the table of contents, disguised as a playbill, informs the reader, &quot;The Globe Theatre is proud to present a new season of Mr. William Shakespeare's plays.&quot;  So come one, come all and take your seats as author, Marcia Williams, presents seven famous plays, As You Like It, Antony and Cleopatra, Richard III, Twelfth Night, King Lear, The Merchant of Venice and Much Ado About Nothing, in comic book format.  Each &quot;performance&quot; is broken down into three parts:  Shakespeare's actual words, spoken by the actors on stage, the plot of the story told in crisp, clear and uncomplicated text beneath the pictures and the often amusing and sometimes important remarks made by the audience as they watch.  The illustrations of each play are colorful, easy to follow and packed with marvelous detail that catches the readers' eye and propels the story forward.  Bravo, Mr William Shakespeare is a wonderful and enjoyable introduction to the Bard's plays that takes you back to their original setting at the Globe, in the mid-1500s and is an evocative experience that's sure to whet the appetite of young readers.  &quot;The audience is asked to refrain from throwing hard objects at the performers.  Rotten fruit only, please.  Beware of pickpockets!&quot;  Read, learn and enjoy!	2001-09-16
1841558:US	52793250	RAIX1HWV57PSW	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	5	2	6	N	N	A Stunning, Evocative Novel....	Eleven year old Alice Fendar thought her world was safe and ordinary until the day her father packed up and left the family for another woman. Her mother, Meg, fell into a deep depression and wouldn't get out of bed. Her older brother, Boone, spent all his spare time dreaming about and writing to Persely Snow, a teenage mental patient, hospitalized for poisoning her mother and father. But nothing prepared Alice for Simon Jester, the dark and brooding man who suddenly comes into their lives and marries her mother. He's secretive, sadistic and cruel with a hair trigger temper. Alice and Boone try to convince their mother that Simon is dangerous and trying to harm them, but Meg's afraid of losing her new husband and being alone again and chalks their fears up to over-active imaginations. That is, until the night she sneaks into their room and whispers, RUN..... Kathy Hepinstall has written a compelling page turner that's full of atmosphere and suspense. Her story line twists, turns and surprises with vivid and riveting scenes and her beautifully drawn, original and interesting characters come alive on the page. But it's Ms Hepinstall's wonderfully descriptive, poetic writing and painstaking attention to detail that really makes this novel stand out. From the very first page, you're pulled into this totally absorbing story that doesn't let you go until the stunning climax and satisfying ending ties up all the loose ends. The Absence of Nectar is a superb coming of age novel told with great insight, wisdom and humor;  a book that definitely shouldn't be missed.	2001-09-12
1845667:US	52793250	RHM45L6RFAX1E	0439240832	526097284	Uncle Blubbafink's Seriously Ridiculous Stories	Books	5	4	5	N	N	So You Like Stories.....	&quot;So hello already. I hear you're looking for a good story or two. Well you came to the right place. You want stories? I'll give you stories.&quot; So begins Uncle Blubbafink's introduction and he's off and running. He's got stories all right. Silly, humorous, outrageous tales with titles like Abraham Sandwich and George Washing Machine, The Legend of Smoky the Volcano, and The Dragon Whose Head Was A Station Wagon, that will have kids laughing out loud and rolling in the aisles. Keith Graves' witty, irreverent, easy to read text, written in hip, kid-speak language is complemented by his marvelously bright, bold, wacky artwork, including changing font styles and colors and youngsters will revel in all the busy, vivid details. Perfect for kids 9-12, Uncle Blubbafink's Seriously Ridiculous Stories really captures pre-adolescent humor, is a book your kids will want to read again and again and we can only hope Mr Graves is busy writing more.	2001-09-08
1847335:US	52793250	R2PK7WA7RPKYNW	0060286075	241412043	Don't Know Much About the 50 States	Books	5	26	27	N	N	State Facts and Fun.....	Do you know which state has the largest cave system in the world, why Tennessee's nickname is the Volunteer State, or why North and South Dakota have the same name? What did Delaware do first, before any other state and why are more languages spoken in Oklahoma than in all of Europe? Do you know how many presidents were born in Ohio, whether there are really 10,000 lakes in Minnesota, or where you'd find a nodding donkey? The answers to these and hundreds of other questions can be found in Kenneth Davis' marvelously creative and inventive geography book, Don't Know Much About The 50 States. Written in an easy to read, conversational format, each page is dedicated to a single state, chock full of interesting trivia, fun facts and historical information and complemented by Renee Andriani's witty and expressive illustrations that just add to the fun. Perfect for youngsters 9-12, this is a book full of history, trivia and lots of surprises that whets the appetite, takes the stuffiness out of geography and makes learning fun. So find out in which two states wild Venus Fly Traps grow, and enjoy!	2001-09-07
1847864:US	52793250	R215Y7EJZHG3BO	0807516953	613654531	Do Knights Take Naps?	Books	5	4	4	N	N	What About Those Knights.....	Kathy Tucker and Nick Sharratt have gotten together and authored a marvelous and creative picture book that tells you everything you ever wanted to know about knights, and more. Each chapter, written in joyful rhythmic verse and complemented with bright, busy, detailed artwork tells the reader a little more about the life of a knight. Find out how you get to be a knight in the first place, what he does for a living (fights bad princes and fiery dragons), what he wears, how he accessorizes and where he lives. Then, look into what bad princes and fiery dragons do that's so awful and how a knight fights and beats them. And finally discover the really important information, every would-be knight needs to know: Do knights get to eat candy, watch T.V. and take naps? Do Knights Take Naps? is a charming, witty and humorous book that's perfect for emerging readers and also makes a wonderful read aloud story the entire family will enjoy.	2001-09-06
1848208:US	52793250	RRJ7ZKGCSJ3A6	0060295015	791262801	Father Fox's Pennyrhymes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An American Treasure.....	Meet Father Fox, he's as American and down-home as apple pie and the Fourth of July, dressed in his overalls, and he's here to entertain.  &quot;The sky is dark, there blows a storm/Our cider is hot, the fire is warm/The snow is deep &amp; the night is long:/Old Father Fox, will you sing us a song?&quot;  Vermont sisters, Clyde and Wendy Watson wrote this marvelous collection of country life poems thirty years ago and it's as fresh and wonderful today, as it was then.  Their joyous lilting rhymes are always witty, sometimes silly or sad, funny or even a bit rude and full of rhythm, energy and motion.  The busy and expressive water color and pen illustrations are full of humorous detail and youngsters will be fascinated as they pore over the artwork watching the antics of Father Fox, his family and friends.  Father Fox's Pennyrhymes is a treasure and a timeless classic to read and share with those you love and then hand down to the next generation.  &quot;Soft falls the snow/The coals burn low/Little Jacob's asleep on my knee;/My story ends here/For midnight is near:/To bed now, one-two-three!&quot;	2001-09-06
1848588:US	52793250	RF3VLM86G63QV	031227663X	827370408	Desperate Measures (Barbara Holloway Novels)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Tense Courtroom Drama	Oregon Criminal defense attorney, Barbara Holloway, always likes the challenge of a tough case, but this time she's definitely in for the fight of her life. It seems Gus Marchand, an overbearing and tyrannical religious zealot was found dead in his kitchen, slammed in the head with a hammer. All suspicion falls on Alex Feldman, a horribly disfigured recluse and neighbor of the victim whom Marchand had tormented for years, calling him the devil freak or devil spawn. The evidence, what little there is, is all circumstantial. But because of bigotry and fear in this rural community, Alex, an easy target, is arrested and charged with the murder. Now it's up to Barbara, her father and mentor, Frank, and the rest of her defense team to find the truth and set Alex free..... Kate Wilhelm has written a tight, compelling legal thriller full of twists, turns and surprises that will keep readers turning pages to the end. Her crisp, tense writing is suspenseful with vivid and riveting scenes and her characters are well drawn &quot;real&quot; people.  Ms Wilhelm's indepth knowledge of the workings of the law and legal procedures adds real credibility to the story and her courtroom scenes really come alive on the page. Add to that clever secondary plot lines to flesh out and enhance the story, a stunning climax and very satisifying ending that ties up all the loose ends, and you have the makings of a thriller that shouldn't be miss. Desperate Measures is a winner!	2001-09-06
1851027:US	52793250	RFDMOQ0OHL2AB	0399229248	972834721	The Storytelling Princess	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Brand New Fairy Tale	Once upon a time, a King told his son that the time had come for him to marry and he had arranged for the Prince to marry a Princess from a far off kingdom across the sea. The Prince, not happy with his fate and lack of choice declared, &quot;I will only marry the Princess I pick for myself.&quot; But the King was insistent and the Prince finally agreed to a contest. He would marry the Princess if his father could find anyone in the kingdom who could tell him a story with an ending he didn't know. At the same time, a Princess, in a far off kingdom is boarding a ship with her parents to cross the sea for an arranged marriage to a Prince. She too, is not happy. &quot;I'd rather be washed overboard in a storm at sea.&quot; And as fate would have it, that's exactly what happens. After many days in the water, she finally washes ashore in a strange land and finds a dry sailor's suit to wear. Disguised and needing money, she enters a contest to tell a young Prince a story, a new and special story, with an ending he's never heard before..... Rafe Martin has written a charming and imaginative old fashioned fairy tale, complete with happily ever after ending that's perfect for youngsters 4-8. His evocative text is beautifully depicted in Kimberly Bulcken Root's detailed and expressive artwork, done in soft tones of blues and golds. Though the ending is predictable, the enjoyment is in the getting there and this is a satisfying story children will want to read again and again.	2001-09-04
1851273:US	52793250	R2DOKNAGJ9U5V7	0060294515	393157161	Sheila Rae's Peppermint Stick	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Sheila Rae, You Gotta Love Her.....	Sheila Rae has a peppermint stick.  It's long and striped and thin and sweet.  But most importantly, it's all hers.  When little sister, Louise, asks for just a taste, one little lick, Sheila Rae does her best, big sister style, to torment and tease tiny Louise.  &quot;You can have a lick if you can guess how many stripes there are.&quot;  And of course poor Louise doesn't have a clue.  But when Sheila Rae's second challenge backfires, the two sisters work out a winning compromise that leaves Sheila Rae, Louise and the reader, happy..... Nobody captures the ups and downs of sibling relationships quite as well as Kevin Henkes.  His easy to read text and dialogue are down to earth and true to life and his characters are so real they could live right next door.  Youngsters will easily identify with Sheila Rae and Louise, since they're sure to have played out many similar situations with their own brothers, sisters or friends.  Add Mr Henkes charming and expressive artwork and you have the makings of a terrific little book that's perfect for pre-schoolers and emerging readers.  This is Kevin Henkes' first board book and it's sure to join his many classics as a new family favorite.  Sheila Rae's Peppermint Stick is a winner!	2001-09-04
1851888:US	52793250	RKUP8JPN2SDMC	0060296240	135071109	My Car	Books	5	21	21	N	N	For All Little Car Lovers.....	&quot;I am Sam./This is my car.&quot;  So begins Byron Barton's terrific new picture book and with very few words and bright, bold, geometric illustrations, Sam explains the wonders and responsibilities of car ownership.  He keeps his car clean and well maintained, filled with gas and oil.  He drives carefully, stopping for pedestrians and obeying road signs.  And he delights in the way his car is built and the way it works.  Sam shows us some of the car parts, including the engine, wheels, body and frame, as well as the lights, so that he can drive at night and the windshield wipers, so he can see when it rains.  And he shows us one of the places he drives, to work, where he boards a bus because he's the bus driver.....  Mr Barton's simple, minimal text is perfect for pre-schoolers as young as two and his childlike artwork is charming and engaging.  My Car is a must for all little car lovers!	2001-09-03
1853328:US	52793250	R298BI4HG6G6GN	043908069X	916707639	Alphabet Adventure	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Captivating Fun.....	Charley's alphabet has been working hard all summer on Alphabet Island, getting ready for the first day of school. But as their teacher, Capital T, lines up all the lower case letters, it finds that lower case i has lost it's dot. The letters look all over Alphabet Island, but can't find little i's dot anywhere and Capital T is becoming frantic. It's the first day of school, they're going to be late and Charley really needs his alphabet. Fortunately, Capital I has a plan. He thinks i's dot is playing a prank and hiding from everyone and he knows a way to make him come out and save the day..... Audrey and Bruce Wood have authored a marvelous picture book, full of charm and humor that pre-schoolers and emerging readers will want to read again and again. Her easy to read, amusing text moves the mystery along at a good pace. But it's Mr Wood's amazing, bold, bright and busy artwork that make this book stand out and youngsters will enjoy all the wonderful details in each illustration and finding i's dot on each page as it plays hide and seek with the reader. Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Alphabet Adventure is a terrific teaching tool and a delightful way for kids to begin recognizing letters and learning phonics.	2001-09-02
1854925:US	52793250	RV7THXGV5QVRB	0689831854	539682713	Mrs. McTats and Her Houseful of Cats	Books	5	14	14	N	N	For Little Cat Lovers, Everywhere.....	Mrs McTats lived alone with her cat, Abner and &quot;Every morning she left/as the clock struck eight/To market, to market!/I mustn't be late.&quot; One morning, just as she was about to leave there was a scratch at the door and in walked two cats. Mrs McTats decides she has room in her house and her heart for these two strays and names them Basil and Curly. The next morning, three more cats arrive, Dolly, Ernest and Fuzzy (that makes 6).  The next day four more are waiting at the door, and so on until finally Violet, Winnie, Xinnie and Yodel are adopted and join the family (that makes 25). Mrs McTats feels something or someone is still missing, so readers won't be surprised when the next morning there's another scratch at the door. But this time it's a puppy and she names him Zoom..... Alyssa Capucilli has written a creative and inventive picture book that combines the alphabet with counting and addition all rolled into a charming and engaging story. Her joyous, rhyming text is beautifully complemented by Joan Rankin's detailed, amusing illustrations that get busier and funnier with each page turn and youngsters will love all the facial expressions and different personalities of each new addition to the house. Perfect for little ones 3-7, Mrs Mctats And Her Houseful Of Cats is a winner and a book kids will beg to read again and again.	2001-08-31
1857359:US	52793250	R13Q6A1ZO45O40	0618108572	944022165	Score One for the Sloths	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Hanging Around With Sloths.....	&quot;Ho-dee-hum. It was another day at Sleepy Valley Sloth School, and all the sloths were just hanging around.&quot; Every so often their teacher would awaken and teach a short lesson in yawn, snore or roll over. Lunch hour took three hours as the sloths slowly ate each berry, one at a time and after such an exhausting workout in the cafeteria, it was time for a nap. Then onto study hall and finally recess, though no sloth had the energy to play. They just hung around all over the swing set sleeping some more. At dismissal, no one had the energy to get up and leave, so they all just dozed and waited for the janitor to sweep them out the door. Life was good and slothful until Sparky showed up. She was perky and full of energy, a real mover and shaker and by lunchtime had driven the rest of the class crazy, disrupting their usual sleepy routine. But when a Boar with a clipboard from the Society for Organizing Sameness (SOS) in the Mammal District shows up and announces that Sleepy Valley Sloth School will be closed, because of such low, really non-existant test scores, Sparky comes to the rescue and saves the day..... That dynamic duo of Helen Lester and Lynn Munsinger have teamed up again and authored a delightful and amusing story that will have kids giggling and laughing and definitely wanting more. Ms Lester's charming, witty text includes puns and wordplay and is only outdone by Ms Munsinger's humorous and expressive artwork featuring sleepy, napping, inert sloths draped over trees, tables and playground equipment often with schoolbooks covering their faces. Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Score One For The Sloths is hopefully the beginning of a new series and makes a wonderful addition to all home libraries.	2001-08-29
1859139:US	52793250	R2AZGZYV2HR0NO	0439262208	576634235	Horus's Horrible Day (First Graders from Mars)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	First Grade, Martian Style.....	Horus couldn't wait to get to his first grade class in Pod 1. But once there, he was confused. Where was the slime table and the snooze mats and what time was snack? &quot;First graders are too big for those things,&quot; another student informs him and Horus realizes he's not in martiangarten anymore. First grade is work, work, work, from reading to art to math problems and Horus is hungry and tired and cranky when his mother picks him up from school. How was your first day, she wants to know. &quot;Horrible. I'm not going back!&quot; Unfortunately, he finds out that this decision is out of his hands (or in his case tentacles), when his folks literally drag him back to school the next morning. There he finds a new little alien crying big blue tears. She's afraid school will be terrible, Horus agrees and scary, no argument there, and the teacher will be mean and the work too hard. But as Horus remembers his first day he tells her, the teacher was very nice and helpful and the work is hard, but not too hard, you can do it. Horus has a new friend, a friend who feels just like he did yesterday and needs him to help show her the ropes. So together they march inside, ready for whatever comes their way..... Shana Corey has written a delightful and humorous story that many first graders will relate to. Her simple and realistic text, complete with silly Martian language, really captures the essence of a little one moving from the safe world of kindergarten to the big unknown of first grade and is complemented by Mark Teaque's funny, expressive, colorful artwork. Together they've authored a charming story with a gentle, reassuring message that won't be lost on young readers. Perfect for kids 5-8, First Graders From Mars is just right for beginning readers and also makes a wonderful read aloud story the entire family can enjoy.	2001-08-28
1859722:US	52793250	RY9D0LLUFKMDC	0060198702	484846709	Murder Boogies with Elvis	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Southern Sisters are Back and Better than Ever.....	Everyone's favorite southern sisters, bigger than life and soon to be married for the fourth time, Mary Alice (Sister) and prim and petite, Patricia Anne (Mouse) had really been looking forward to the big benefit to raise money for the restoration of Birmingham's Vulcan monument. They had front row center seats and couldn't wait for the promised finale of thirty Elvis impersonators all on stage, together. But, it seems that wherever the girls go, trouble follows and sure enough, one member of the high kicking Elvis chorus line keels over and crashes, dead, into the orchestra pit. It turns out that poor &quot;Elvis&quot; was murdered, stabbed in the back and to make matters worse, Patricia Anne finds the murder weapon, a switchblade knife, at the bottom of her purse..... Ann George has written a light, fast paced mystery, full of original quirky characters and vivid scenes that come alive on the page. But it's her crisp, witty writing and laugh out loud southern humor that really makes this book, as it does in all her others, stand out and no one captures the essence of life in the south, with all its idiosyncrasies, like Ms George. This is the eighth mystery of a truly wonderful series. If you're new to the many travails of Mary Alice and Patricia Anne, start at the beginning and read them all. If you're already a fan, Murder Boogies With Elvis is just what you're expecting...a fun, entertaining, terrific read.	2001-08-28
1860274:US	52793250	R2JXADNG9NB7W	0140562478	187564441	Froggy Goes to School	Books	5	8	9	N	N	It's Time For School and Froggy's On His Way.....	It's Froggy's first day of school and this ever enthusiastic little amphibian can't wait. He gets dressed, eats his flies and milk, catches the school bus and has no trouble finding his very own desk with his very own name on it. He's so thrilled to be able to read his name, the first word, he realizes, that he can read, that he reads it again and again, louder and louder and even louder, until his teacher informs him that he needs to keep his voice down and that it's time to be quiet and pay attention. But it's hard for him to sit still and listen and take turns, so hard, in fact that while looking out the window and day dreaming, he falls off his chair. His teacher gently reminds him to stay in his seat and that he'll be able to sit on the floor at circle time. When circle time finally arrives, Froggy has his moment. While telling the class about how he learned to swim during the summer, he starts to sing and dance, laugh and hop and pretty soon the whole class is &quot;swimming&quot; right along with him, including Mr Mugwort, the principal..... No one captures the essence of a busy little pre-schooler, with places to go, people to see and things to do, like Jonathan London. His funny, joyful text, full of energy, motion and silly sound effects is wonderfully depicted in Frank Remkiewicz's bright, bold, expressive artwork. Together, they show a successful first day of school, not perfect, but realistic and reassuring to youngsters getting ready for the big step. This story is just one in a delightful series of firsts and your kids will love each and every one of them. Froggy Goes To School is a winner and a good way to help prepare your children for all the fun that's ahead when school begins.	2001-08-28
1862635:US	52793250	R3PIIAD3ARSFDL	0385327927	765629104	Full Moon	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Magical Journey	&quot;For my birthday, Grandma sent me a crystal globe of the city where she lives. &quot;If you look carefully, maybe you can see me,&quot; she wrote. Late that night, I woke to find a full moon glowing in a starry sky. &quot;To Grandma's,&quot; I shouted.&quot; So begins a young boy's magical adventure as he hitches himself to the moon and travels over the skyline of Manhattan, past the spires of St. Patrick's Cathedral, Central Park and the zoo, the Chrysler Building and other skyscrapers and the New York Public Library with its enormous (yawning) lions. On the way he meets dancers, tighrope walkers, talking animals, cowboys, circus performers and other enchanting characters floating through the air, all on their way to join him for a birthday bash at the Statue of Liberty where he finds Grandma atop an elephant leading the celebration. &quot;Happy birthday,&quot; she whispered in my ear. &quot;Have a good night's rest.&quot; She gave me a wink and a blink, and I quickly fell asleep.&quot;..... Brian Wilcox and Lawrence David have authored a creative and innovative picture book full of imagery and adventure. The simple, quiet, understated text is beautifully complemented by Mr Wilcox's magical and expressive pencil illustrations, done in only soothing shades of black, white and gray and youngsters will enjoy poring over all the wonderful city details in each picture. Perfect for children 4-8, Full Moon is an evocative bedtime story and a special journey you don't want to miss.	2001-08-26
1862811:US	52793250	R11VCEIDBEBZL3	1890817902	545070323	The Little Squeegy Bug	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Magical.....	The little squeegy bug didn't know who or what he was. He wasn't an ant or a cricket or even a flea and he wanted to find his purpose in life. When he met Buzzer the Bumblebee, he decided he wanted to be special, just like him. But how could he find a pair of silver wings and a stinger? Buzzer tells Squeegy he'll have to touch the sky to get a beautiful pair of silver wings like his. So that's just what he tried to do. He spent three days climbing the tallest thing he knew of, a cattail, certain it must touch the sky. But on the third evening, he was caught in a terrible storm and saved from certain disaster by a very nice caterpillar, who took him in and gave him a place to sleep. The next morning, the two travel to the web at the very end of the cattail and consult with the all-knowing, Haunchy the Spider. Haunchy weaves Squeegy a beautiful pair of silver wings for his back. But there is no stinger. Instead, Haunchy reaches up and grabs the brightest star in the night sky, attaches it to Squeegy's bottom and names him Squeegy the Firefly, the Lamplighter of the Sky..... Originally published in 1946, Bill Martin Jr, Michael Sampson and Pat Corrigan have teamed up to create this new version of a timeless classic. Their gentle, magical, understated text is enhanced by their high-tech geometric illustrations and together they've authored an innovative and creative story that will mesmerize youngsters with its simple message and bright, bold, textured artwork.  Perfect for kids 4-8, The Little Squeegy Bug is an uplifting treasure to read and share again and again, and pass down from one generation to the next.	2001-08-25
1863467:US	52793250	RP9ZQRY85PM0U	0375813543	724460124	Puss in Boots: The Adventures of That Most Enterprising Feline	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An Old Fairy Tale, Made Better.....	You know the old story. The old Miller dies leaving his oldest son, the mill, his middle son, the donkey and his youngest son, the cat. His youngest son, Jacques, isn't too happy with his bequest. He likes the cat. It's a very nice cat. But what will a cat do for him when it comes to the future. And that's when Puss surprises the young man and begins to talk. He has big plans. He's smart and crafty and as he tells his new owner: &quot;I've got the wit, if you'll supply the courage.&quot; With that, the two are off to find fame and fortune and maybe a princess..... Phillip Pullman has taken this well known fairy tale and given it new life. He's added a few new entertaining characters, an ogre, a hermit and two ghouls and enhanced the story by broadening the plot line and making it more imaginative and interesting. His witty and irreverent text is beautifully complemented by Ian Beck's bold and colorful charming illustrations, full of busy action and special details, including cartoon-like thought bubbles with amusing asides that will keep older kids laughing out loud. Perfect for youngsters 5-9, this version of Puss In Boots has a much better ending that ties up all the loose ends and takes readers on a hilarious adventure that shouldn't be missed.	2001-08-25
1867964:US	52793250	RQMAWLH6KWIZA	0553801449	837851195	Incriminating Evidence	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Superb Legal Thriller	It all started with a phone call from the District Attorney and leading candidate for Attorney General, Prentice Marshall (Skipper) Gates III.  &quot;I need your help ASAP.  We have a situation.&quot;  As ex-priest and now defense attorney Mike Daley, would say, that was a bit of an understatement.  It seems Skipper woke up that morning in San Francisco's Fairmont Hotel with a little company, a dead male prostitute handcuffed to his bed.  Now he's in a holding cell at the Hall of Justice, charged with murder and incensed because &quot;...they're treating me like a prisoner.&quot;  He says he's innocent.  He says he's being framed.  He says there's a conspiracy out there that's trying to make sure he loses the election.  Mike and his law partner, ex-wife, Rosie Fernandez, don't buy it, but decide to take the high profile case, knowing it's going to be an uphill battle all the way.  All the evidence, and there's a lot of it, points right to Skipper.  Their client isn't very forthcoming and seems to be stonewalling his own defense and the only way they're going to be able to defend him and win this case is if they find out what really happened that night.  But as their investigation progresses and they dig deeper into San Francisco politics and possible corruption, Mike and Rosie find that there are powerful people out there who don't want the truth to come out.....  Sheldon Siegel has really honed his craft and written a superb page turner that's about to keep you up reading all night.  This is a legal thriller that definitely has it all...a compelling, well paced, intricate plot, well drawn, intriguing, original characters,  terrific courtroom scenes that come alive on the page and crisp, witty writing and irreverent dialogue.  But it's Mr Siegel's indepth knowledge of San Francisco and his expertise in criminal law and the ins and outs of the courtroom that really makes this book stand out.  This is the second novel of this new series.  If you're new to Mike and Rosie, make sure you read Sheldon Siegel's first thriller, Special Circumstances.  For those who are already fans, Incriminating Evidence is a winner and should be at the top of your &quot;must read&quot; list.	2001-08-22
1870819:US	52793250	R30GG45J8B0FEI	0525466754	161186715	Mystery Mansion: A Seek-and-Find Puzzle Book: Seek-and Find Puzzle Book	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An Intriguing Treasure Hunt.....	Tommy always liked to check the mail and today he received an envelope just for him, an invitation from his Aunt Jeanne to come over for a special visit.  But when he arrives, instead of Aunt Jeanne, he finds a note on the gate telling him to come on up to the house.  At the front door he finds another note telling him to enter and as soon as he steps into the hall a third note begins to explain what's going on.  You don't need me/To lead you around./Follow my notes/And what's lost will be found.  Explore every corner/Of my happy home./There's something of interest/Wherever you roam...  A treasure hunt!  Let the games begin.....  Michael Garland has authored a marvelous interactive book that youngsters will be crazy about.  A letter to the reader at the beginning of the book explains just what you need to do as you travel from room to room with Tommy.  There are lots of things to find in each amazing bold, busy and vivid illustration...letters that spell out a secret message, special words, three magical creatures and over 400 frogs, butterflies, lizards, snakes, mice bats, fish and birds, as well as Aunt Jeanne who is never far away from the action.  Some are in plain sight and easily seen, some are hidden and still others are camouflaged and disguised and take a little work to find.  Each charming rhyming note tells you where to go and what to look for and the storyline itself gives helpful hints.  You'll need pencil, paper and patience, but this treasure hunt is worth it and ends with a big surprise and a creative answer key to check your work.  Perfect for youngsters 9-12, kids 5-8 will enjoy the book just as much but will need a little help to solve the puzzle.  Mystery Mansion is a great activity for a rainy day or a long car or plane trip and will keep children busy and engaged for hours.	2001-08-20
1871812:US	52793250	R2396RRAT9H3GI	0374370753	64270208	A Small Tall Tale From The Far Far North	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Enchanting....	Peter Sis has blended a little fact with a lot of fiction to create this fascinating story about Arctic explorer and folk hero, Jan Welzl.  Born in Eastern Europe, Welzl travelled north looking for adventure and was saved from near death by Eskimos who nursed him back to health and taught him everything they knew about living and surviving in the harsh arctic climate.  But when gold is found and the outside world arrives, Welzl worries that his trusting friends will lose their peaceful way of life.....  Peter Sis has written a charming and enchanting story that's sure to capture all youngsters' imaginations and send them soaring.  His quiet, idealistic, understated text is only outdone by his amazing evocative artwork which mixes maps, panoramas, pictographs and storyboards and children will be mesmerized by their intricacy and detail.  With a prologue and epilogue to help fill in both the fact and fancy of the story, A Small Tall Tale From The Far Far North is perfect for youngsters 8-12 and is a captivating story that begs to be read again and again.	2001-08-19
1871843:US	52793250	R2R5754TVAEQ87	0811830888	956373921	Sam's Big Book of Words	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Welcome to Sam's World...	Join Sam, a busy little bunny, as he explores the world around him.  He's got places to go, people to see and things to do and you can travel and learn right along with him.  Each two page spread is dedicated to one heading (Sam's Suitcase, On a Picnic, At the Store, Weather, Sam's Family...) and consists of clearly labeled objects, activities, people and animals.  Yves Got's charming bright, childlike illustrations add to the fun and children can enjoy the book on several different levels.  Little ones can identify pictures and use them to create stories, while emerging readers can begin to recognize and sound out words and build their vocabulary.  Perfect for pre-schoolers and kindergarteners, Sam's Big Book of Words is an engaging teaching tool that's sure to be a favorite for the youngsters in your house.	2001-08-19
1871875:US	52793250	R12KDS5CY342JB	0374382522	749500046	We Were There, Too!: Young People in U.S. History	Books	5	38	38	N	N	An Extraordinary History Book.....	Do you know who Deborah Sampson, Eunice Williams or Joseph Miliauskas are?  How about John Tinker, Johnny Clem and Claudette Colvin?  These six names are among the more than seventy young people profiled in Phillip Hoose's marvelously unique history book, We Were There, Too!.  From the boys who sailed to America with Columbus and all through the history of this country, young people have contributed to every important event that helped shape our nation.  Each of Mr Hoose's painstakingly researched and beautifully written stories is both compelling and engaging and includes photographs and/or other artwork and additional related historical information about the world at that time.  Youngsters will be fascinated and inspired and history will come alive, as they read about young people their own age who stood up and made a difference.  Perfect for kids 10 and older, We Were There, Too! chronicles a part of history, often overlooked and is a book that should be savored and enjoyed by everyone, young and old alike.	2001-08-19
1872695:US	52793250	R35Y2W9DXW48JR	0805058621	98974159	Dusty Locks and the Three Bears	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Old Favorite With a Little Spunk.....	You all know the story.  Three bears go out for a walk while their food cools. A little girl arrives and makes herself at home, finally falling asleep.  The bears come home, find her and frightened, she runs all the way home.  Susan Lowell doesn't veer far from this familiar old storyline, but she adds some spice, zip and western flair to make it special.  Dusty Locks hasn't had a bath &quot;for a month of Sundays&quot;, is pretty fragrant from chasing skunks and is a no-good little outlaw who's run away from home without even kissing her mother goodbye.  She literally blows onto the scene in a cloud of dust and does her best to wreak havoc on the bear's little house.  And when she's finally discovered and heads back home so fast &quot;the dust didn't settle for a week&quot;, her mother is waiting for that &quot;dirty little desperado&quot; with some big surprises of her own.....  Ms Lowell's vivid character descriptions and clever text, full of witty, wild west, laugh out loud language makes this a wonderful read-aloud story and Randy Cecil's charming and humorous artwork just adds to the fun.  Together, they've taken an oldie but goodie of a story and made it even better.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Dusty Locks And The Three Bears is a winner and a book kids will want to read again and again.	2001-08-18
1872706:US	52793250	R1BKB59GRL92B0	0517885433	744412632	Aunt Harriet's Underground Railroad in the Sky	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Magical Trip on the Underground Railroad.....	&quot;One day, my brother Be Be and I were flying among the stars, way way up, so far up the mountains looked like pieces of rock candy and the oceans like tiny cups of tea.  We came across an old ramshackled train in the sky.&quot;  So begins Cassie Louise Lightfoot's tale of meeting &quot;conductor&quot; Harriet Tubman and riding the underground railroad to Canada.  Based on Harriet Tubman's account of a dream she had while very sick, of flying to freedom and enhanced with historical facts and imagination, Faith Ringgold has authored a superb story that transports youngsters back to the slave holding plantations of the south, over one hundred years ago, and then sends them on a terrifying, yet exhilarating journey to freedom.  Her engaging poetic text, full of imagery and magic, is complemented by her bold, expressive, evocative illustrations and together, word and art bring this emotional story to life.  With additional biographical notes and map, tracing the underground railroad routes, included to augment lessons and discussions, Aunt Harriet's Underground Railroad In The Sky is a masterpiece youngsters 6-10 shouldn't miss and a wonderful addition to all home libraries.	2001-08-18
1873500:US	52793250	R16SRRPHDG3OKB	0060295899	732346196	One More Wednesday	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Beautifully Written, Sensitive Story	&quot;On Wednesday when I was little, Granny and I baked cakes and cookies.  Then we ate them up.&quot;  So begins Malika Doray's lovely picture book, One More Wednesday.  This little bunny and his Granny spent every Wednesday together and had a very special relationship.  Then came the Wednesday he couldn't go to her house because she was in the hospital and later he saw his Mama talking on the telephone and crying.  His Papa explained that Granny had died.  He went to the funeral, but really didn't understand.  &quot;Did this mean that my Granny was gone forever?&quot;  Patiently and quietly his mother explains the circle of life.  &quot;Before you were even born, in some way you were already here because we wanted you so much.  And it's the same with Granny now.  In some way she'll always be here because you love her so much.&quot;  At first remembering was hard to do and the bunny felt sad and cried.  But after awhile, thinking of her singing and her warm lap was nice.  &quot;And it almost could be one more Wednesday with my Granny.&quot;  Ms Doray has authored a gentle and reassuring story that will help young children start to understand and accept the mysteries of death and eternity.  Her tender and understated text is beautifully complemented by her simple and comforting black line drawings with just a single touch of color added here and there to enhance the artwork.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, One More Wednesday is neither maudlin nor overly sentimental and told with great honesty and wisdom.	2001-08-17
1875176:US	52793250	R348QWIMIOTCUN	0380812053	626600535	Foreign Body: A Tory Bauer Mystery	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Tory Bauer's Back and Better than Ever.....	How could this be happening again?  Another dead, or to be more exact, almost dead body in the Delphi Cafe.  This is definitely not good for business and poor Tory Bauer, overweight, over forty waitress and now co-owner of the only eating establishment in town can't believe she's calling 911, yet again.  It seems that one young Swedish female member, Annelise, of the European Traveling Lutheran Youth Choir has decided to attempt suicide in the cafe by taking an  overdose of aspirin, leaving behind a scandalous note that blames this desperate act on Delphi's own Reverend Clay Diebert, for molesting her.  To make matters even worse, though rushed to the hospital in Aberdeen, Annelise dies, Clay's wife, Junior is Tory's first cousin, about ten months pregnant and convinced that he's been having an affair with someone, an old Delphi nemesis, Weasel Cleaver is out of jail and back in town wreaking havoc, the cafe's in real financial trouble and about to go under and if that's not enough, another dead body is found in the Reverend's office closet.  Now Tory is on the case, trying to sort this mess out and as usual, when she begins asking questions and peeking into the lives of Delphi's finest citizens, secrets and lies start popping up all over town.....  Kathleen Taylor has done it again, written another fast paced, entertaining page turner that begs to be read in one sitting.  Her engaging plot and crisp, witty and often irreverent writing are only outdone by her wonderful cast of quirky, wacky characters and you're sure to be laughing out loud at their antics and her vivid side-splitting scenes.  This is the sixth installment to a terrific series.  If you're new to Tory and company, start at the beginning with Funeral Food and read them all.  If you're already a fan, you won't be disappointed this time out.  Enjoy!	2001-08-16
1877453:US	52793250	RRBUV9N42NWL4	0763607800	745395607	Kiss Good Night	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Bedtime Made Special	It was a dark and stormy night.  The wind blew, whoo, whooo.  The rain hit against the roof and windows, splat, splat.  But inside, Mama Bear is putting her cub to bed.  &quot;Ready now, Sam?&quot;  &quot;Oh no,&quot; said Sam &quot;I'm waiting.&quot;  So mother begins all their nighttime rituals.  First, they read a book together.  She tucks Sam in, head to toe, with his red blanket and arranges his stuffed animal friends.  Then they share a glass of milk.  And still Sam tells her, &quot;I'm waiting&quot;  What could Mrs Bear have forgotten.  She thinks and goes back over her bedtime chores and then remembers.  &quot;Kiss goodnight, Sam.&quot;  And she kisses him once, twice and then twice more.....  Amy Hest has written a lovely bedtime story that's cozy and comforting and just perfect for pre-schoolers.  Her simple, gentle, quiet text is beautifully illustrated by Anita Jeram's soft expressive earthtoned artwork.  Kiss Good Night is a charming bedtime story that's sure to become a new favorite in your house and may help your little ones fall asleep with its easy familiar rituals.	2001-08-14
1878872:US	52793250	RUD80TD77X5EH	1563977591	778556594	Last Night at the Zoo	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Fabulous Night Out.....	&quot;Last night at the zoo there was nothing to do...&quot;  What do all those bored animals do to entertain themselves after everyone's gone home?  Well last night they hatched a plan and decided to escape from the zoo and see what life in the big city was like.  A monkey steals the keys from the sleeping night watchman and lets everyone out of their cages.  The seals and a walrus cover the money problem with all the coins that have been tossed into their pool.  The chimp raids the lost and found for clothes so that all the animals can disguise themselves and blend in and off they go.  They board a downtown bus and begin the adventure of a lifetime.  First they splurge on dinner at a fancy french restaurant where their &quot;animal&quot; manners and loud noise gets them thrown out.  Then on to a disco where they dance the night away.  Finally hungry and tired, they stop at Joe's Diner for a late night snack before catching the bus and heading home..... Michael Garland has authored a wonderfully creative adventure that will send your youngsters imaginations soaring as they watch zoo animals, not all that well disguised in shirts, hats, ties and dresses, go out for a big night on the town.  His charming rhyming text is only outdone by his bold, expressive, larger than life illustrations and kids will enjoy poring over the artwork and finding all the special humorous details.  Perfect for children 3-7, Last Night At The Zoo is a delightful, entertaining romp that's sure to become a family favorite.	2001-08-13
1880455:US	52793250	R15AN1WRVWMO5	0689830181	773548383	Dodo Gets Married (Anne Schwartz Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Love and Marriage Among the Feathered.....	What do you get when you combine Lottie's funny, good-hearted friend Dodo and an old, cranky and lonely helicopter rescue pilot, Captain Vince?  Another picture book winner from Petra Mathers.  Poor Captain Vince was injured in a rescue mission and lost a leg.  He now sits home alone, day in and day out, feeling sorry for himself.  That is until the wonderful exuberant Dodo pushes her way into his life and within no time, the two are inseparable.  He proposes marriage in a most unique way.  She says YES in a style all her own and the wedding is on.  And even a wedding eve disaster can't dampen the love of this match made in heaven..... Petra Mathers' sweet, and engaging story will put a big smile on the faces of children and adults, alike.  The simple, gentle and amusing text is complemented by her wonderfully expressive, bold and bright illustrations full of charming, familiar, special details.  This is the fourth book of Ms Mathers' Lottie and Herbie series and fans will be thrilled to see a whole book about a favorite character, exotic Dodo.  For those new to these delightful stories, make sure you read them all...Lottie's New Beach Towel, Lottie's New Friend and A Cake for Herbie.	2001-08-12
1880879:US	52793250	R11K5D8ZO7NK71	0060291362	33828475	Nora's Room	Books	5	4	4	N	N	What's Going on in Nora's Room?	&quot;Crash! Bang! Crash! Bang! Boom!  Something's going on in Nora's room!&quot;  Mother, cooking dinner, baby twins playing in the kitchen, the family dog and even a pet parakeet wonder at all the noise from upstairs.  &quot;How much noise does a little girl need?  Sounds like the whole city zoo got freed!&quot;  Could it be bears dancing with moose, rhinos playing musical chairs or gorillas playing duck, duck, goose?  Maybe it's an elephant hoedown or a couple of giants sitting on a town.  Let's go upstairs to the door that says &quot;Enter if you Dare&quot; and find out..... The dynamic sister duo of Jessica Harper and Lindsay Harper duPont have authored another clever, silly picture book that's perfect for youngsters 3-7.  Ms Harper's humorous rhyming text is complemented by her sister's wonderfully expressive and colorful illustrations and together they've created a charming, joyful story, with a little joke at the end, that won't be lost on young readers.  So take a deep breath, open that bedroom door and find out what Nora's up to.	2001-08-12
1881061:US	52793250	R2XJO0GZFVK5F	039923229X	803954418	How Can You Dance	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Gotta Dance!	How can you dance when/Spring is in your shoes?/Dance like the king/of the kangaroos.  Bounce, bounce, bou---ce....  How can you dance when/there's something in your way?/Dance like a crab/on a sunny day.  Side-step-side, look around....  Rick Walton and Ana Lopez-Escriva have authored a marvelous picture book that will have kids up and moving and imaginations soaring.  Each two page spread asks a how can you dance question in lilting rhyming text and then helps youngsters begin their own dance with helpful instructions and bold, expressive artwork.  This is a terrific book for pre-schoolers full of energy and the movement ideas suggested are just the tip of the iceberg.  Young children will be creating their own dances in no time.  So find out how you can dance with a stick in your hand, or when one foot is sore or even when you're mad as a bee and have fun.	2001-08-12
1881769:US	52793250	RONDFX749ZFRL	0399147489	702254891	Open Season (A Joe Pickett Novel)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Spectacular Debut.....	Joe Pickett always loved the great outdoors and all he'd ever wanted to be was a game warden.  And though his career had taken a rocky start (he'd unknowingly ticketed the governor for fishing without a license and was almost killed when a poacher, Ote Keeley, grabbed his gun and pointed it at his head), being game warden of Twelve Sleep, Wyoming was his dream come true.  The pay was low, the benefits, poor and the hours long and hard for a family man, but he was happy.  That is, until the morning he found his old &quot;friend&quot; Ote, dead, lying on his woodpile, a scratched up cooler with some animal scat inside, next to him.  Within days, two more bodies are discovered at Ote's camp and another outfitter is shot, resisting arrest.  Joe thinks the local authorities wrapped up the case a little too quickly and easily.  There are still too many unanswered questions and something about the deaths and crime scenes just doesn't smell right, so he continues to investigate on his own.  As he digs deeper into the murders and what may really be going on in and around Twelve Sleep, he finds the truth may not only put his career in jeopardy, but also his life and the lives of his family..... C. J. Box has written a well paced thriller that's guaranteed to keep you turning pages right to the end.  His tight, compelling, yet entertaining story line is full of twists, turns and surprises;  his writing, crisp and tense and his well-drawn characters, interesting, original and very real.  But it's Mr Box's amazing descriptions of Wyoming's wilderness, landscape and terrain, that pull you into the story and transport you to the wild, wild west, that really makes this novel stand out.  Open Season is a marvelous debut with a great main character and is hopefully, the start of a terrific new series.  This is a book that should definitely be on all mystery/thriller fans &quot;must read&quot; list.	2001-08-11
1884292:US	52793250	R19BDDC8CUUS3Q	0060282703	52362443	Wait! No Paint!	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Three Little Pigs with an Unusual Twist.....	You know the story...Once there were three little pigs who built three little houses:  The first with straw, the second with sticks and the third with bricks.  Then there was the big bad wolf who wanted to huff and puff and blow their houses down and eat them.  And of course the illustrator...Ah, this is where the usual story takes a left turn and becomes a hilarious UNusual tale..... Bruce Whately has outdone himself with this very clever and humorous picture book that adds a clumsy illustrator with all kinds of paint problems to the mix.  First he spills his juice on the straw house, it collapses into a mushy mess and the poor pig barely gets out alive.  Then he runs out of red paint, so the pigs aren't pink anymore and look like ghosts.  He tries to remedy the problem with another color, green, but all agree that green pigs just won't work.  In the meantime, the wolf has climbed up on the roof and is about ready to slide down the chimney, so the pigs decide to build a fire to keep him out.  Only without red paint, they can't build a really hot fire and without a fire, the wolf will have no trouble coming in and eating them up.  The story is definitely getting out of control and that's when one little pig says the magic words:  &quot;We don't want to be in this story anymore!&quot;..... Mr Whately's witty text, full of jokes, wordplay and surprises, coupled with his marvelously expressive and &quot;sometimes&quot; colorful illustrations, is a laugh out loud romp youngsters 4-8 will want to read again and again.  With an unexpected twist at the end to really tickle your funny bone, Wait! No Paint! is a book that shouldn't be missed and a terrific addition to all home bookshelves.	2001-08-09
1884345:US	52793250	R3N1VQ7EZS74I4	0803722613	776309919	Sorry	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Power of One Little Word.....	Ebenezer and Obadiah are brothers living and working together on their New England farm.  Ebenezer plowed the fields and cooked while Obadiah milked the cow and cleaned and all went well until the morning Obadiah took a bite of his oatmeal and muttered &quot;lumps&quot;.  Ebenezer was so insulted that he picked up the bowl and dumped the oatmeal on Obadiah's head.  Both brothers were furious and stopped talking to the other.  Ebenezer waited for Obadiah to apologize, but he didn't.  Obadiah waited for Ebenezer to say he was sorry, but that never happened.  And with that, the feud began and the brothers never spoke to each other again.  Soon, Obadiah sawed off his half of the farmhouse and dragged it across the valley to the next hillside.  Both brothers' farms prospered.  They married and had children and grandchildren and even great-grandchildren who never spoke to each other.  They grew very, very old.  Then one day their great-grandson's met at the wall that divided their properties.....  Jean Van Leeuwen has written a simple, poignant, yet powerful story about how such a little thing as acknowledging a mistake and saying &quot;I'm sorry&quot;, can change the course of lives forever.  Her expressive text with its gentle message and air of sadness, is beautifully complemented by Brad Sneed's bold, rich watercolor illustrations, full of wonderful farm life detail, that pull you into the story and the brother's lives.  Perfect for youngsters 5-9, Sorry is told with great honesty and wisdom and should open the door to some important discussions about pride and forgiveness.	2001-08-09
1885866:US	52793250	R3I8TYR0HL92DJ	068981965X	858452574	Fannie in the Kitchen : The Whole Story From Soup to Nuts of How Fannie Farmer Invented Recipes with Precise Measurements	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Absolutely Delicious.....	Little Marcia was not very happy the day her mother announced that before the new baby's born, a woman named Fannie Farmer was coming to live with them to cook and be a mother's helper.  Marcia didn't think her mother needed any more helpers.  She could already wash the clothes until they were spotless, polish the oil lamps until they shined and even make candles.  Though she tried to discourage this mother's helper idea, Fannie Farmer arrived right on schedule.  Marcia tried to dislike her, but Fannie's easy manner and engaging ways made them fast friends in no time.  In fact, Fannie was an excellent cook and willing to teach and share her culinary knowledge and pretty soon, Marcia was cooking perfect biscuits and pancakes, choosing the ripest melons at market and even testing the freshness of eggs.  There was only one big problem.  Fannie had all that information in her head and it was way too much for Marcia to remember.  &quot;...what if I wrote out precise instructions for you?  Then you could cook exactly as I do.&quot;  And just like that, the Fannie Farmer Cookbook was born..... Deborah Hopkinson has taken some historical facts, mixed in a little fiction and written a delightful picture book about Fannie Farmer and her creation of the modern recipe and cookbook.  Her clever story, divided into &quot;courses&quot; instead of chapters, is charming, witty and includes some of Fannie's helpful cooking hints.  Nancy Carpenter's wonderfully inventive artwork combines period engravings with pen and ink watercolor illustrations, which complement the story beautifully and give the book a real turn of the century look and feel.  With &quot;Fannie Farmer's Famous Griddle Cakes&quot; recipe included, as well as a short biography at the end of the story to fill in more detail, Fannie in the Kitchen is just perfect for youngsters 4-8 and it's a safe bet to assume that you'll be  eating delicious, made from scratch pancakes, in the very near future.	2001-08-08
1886652:US	52793250	RGMNB0EYH5KX2	0064437531	998592430	The Secret Knowledge of Grown-Ups	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Real Reasons Behind All Those Rules.....	Have you ever wondered why your parents are always telling you to eat your vegetables or comb your hair?  Is there really a sensible reason why you shouldn't blow bubbles in your milk, jump on your bed or bite your fingernails?  David Wisniewski has gone undercover and after years of investigating has discovered the terrible truths to these and other age-old directives kids have blown off as just &quot;parents being parents&quot;.  Now the terrifying explanations are all here for the entire world to see and life as we know it, will never be the same..... With the clever look of a confidential, classified, top secret folder, Mr Wisniewski has written a zany, entertaining, over the top dossier that will have youngsters laughing out loud and rolling in the aisles.  The hilarious, text, told in hip, kid-speak language is full of jokes and puns and complemented by bright, bold, wacky artwork.  Kids will really love poring over these amazing, detailed illustrations.  Perfect for youngsters 8-12, The Secret Knowledge of Grown-Ups is just pure fun and a book you don't want to miss.	2001-08-08
1888813:US	52793250	R1B4WUOPCCK19R	0439078199	777368835	You Forgot Your Skirt, Amelia Bloomer	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Beginnings of the Fashion Revolution.....	Back in the 19th century, &quot;proper ladies&quot; were not allowed to vote, were not supposed to work and worst of all dressed in enormous hooped dresses that were hot, heavy (20 to 40 pounds) and very impractical.  They wore corsets that were so tight it was hard to breathe or even digest and their skirts were so wide they were always getting stuck in doorways and chairs.  &quot;What in the world was proper about that?&quot;  Amelia Bloomer was definitely not a proper lady.  She tried to change the law so that women could vote.  She started her own women's newspaper named, The Lily, and hired other women to work with her.  But best of all, she started a fashion craze that changed women's clothing forever.....  Shana Corey and illustrator, Chesley McLaren have authored an amusing and delightful story, based on historical fact, that traces the beginnings of practical, comfortable and easy to wear clothing for women.  Ms Corey's easy to read text is humorous and chock full of fun facts and complemented by Ms McLaren's charming, colorful fashion artwork.  An author's note at the end fleshes out the story even more with additional fascinating information about the beginnings of the women's rights movement and fashion reform.  Perfect for youngsters 5-9, You Forgot Your Skirt, Amelia Bloomer! is a treasure and a little piece of history that shouldn't be missed.	2001-08-06
1890656:US	52793250	R35SW39WYVIHIS	0374369348	52189434	The Singing Hat	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Thought-Provoking Fable	One day, a very tired Colin Jenkins sat down under a tree at lunchtime to rest and quickly fell asleep.  When he awoke, it was dark out and he realized he'd slept the day away, so he started for home.  On the train, he noticed that all the other passengers were staring at him.  He didn't understand why until he got home, passed a mirror and saw that a bird had built a nest and laid an egg on his head, while he'd slept.  What to do...Colin Jenkins had never had to make such an important decision before.  Should he disturb the nesting bird &quot;at such a fragile and important time&quot; of its life, or leave things alone and not &quot;interfere with nature&quot;, even though it could make his life difficult and cause him problems.....? Tohby Riddle has authored a simple, thoughtful story that should be the springboard to interesting family discussions about tough choices, commitment and doing what's right, even if it's not always appreciated by others.  The charming text and gentle, sympathetic message are complemented by his humorous, cartoon-like artwork that keeps the story light and entertaining.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, it will have even more meaning for older children.  The Singing Hat is a delightful, thought-provoking fable and a welcome addition to all home libraries.	2001-08-05
1890993:US	52793250	RM4E8QL3K1XOO	0590033778	547834967	Wings	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Fly High and Rejoice in Our Differences	Ikarus Jackson is new to the neighborhood.  He has long beautiful white wings and can fly gracefully over rooftops, diving and swooping.  All the children call him strange, gawk, taunt and laugh at him.  Even adults stare and make unkind comments.  Everyone but a shy girl.  She knows how Ikarus feels.  She's heard them whispering and making fun of how quiet she is.  She thinks what Ikarus can do is wonderful and when a policeman orders him to stop flying and stay on the ground, she bravely tells all the others to stop laughing and pointing and leave him alone.  Then she turns to Ikarus and &quot;told him what someone should have long ago:  Your flying is beautiful.&quot;  And for the first time, he smiled.  &quot;Ikarus had found his wings again.&quot;.....  In this simple retelling of the Icarus myth, Christopher Myers' modern day Ikarus Jackson doesn't fall from the sky because he dared to fly too close to the sun, but because the neighborhood couldn't tolerate his differences and broke his spirit.  His beautifully gentle, poetic text, full of imagery and magic is only outdone by his amazing cut paper and photo collage illustrations and both children and adults alike will be mesmerized by the bold colors and intricate detail.  Together, word and art combine to make a very expressive and thoughtful story about the triumph of the human spirit, celebrating our differences and embracing what makes each and every one of us unique and special.  Perfect as a read aloud story for youngsters 4-8, Wings will have even more meaning for older children and should open interesting family discussions.	2001-08-05
1892282:US	52793250	R1F12ANXQKNP4	0553110977	105231632	The Devil Went Down to Austin	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Rick Riordan's Back and Better than Ever.....	Tres Navarre, San Antonian private investigator with a PhD in English Lit is, as the saying goes, hip deep in alligators.  It seems his paraplegic brother, Garrett, a programming phenom and Jimmy Buffet parrothead, has mortgaged the family ranch to help pay his portion of a high-tech start-up, Techsan Security Software, and the lender is about to foreclose.  Techsan's software product has run into all kinds of problems and bugs since a corporate takeover offer was refused and now lawsuits are being filed by all their beta-testers.  When Garrett's oldest friend and partner, Jimmy Doebler is found murdered and all the evidence points to Garrett, Tres decides to head on down to Austin, wade into this mess, against his brother's wishes, and see if he can sort out what's really going on.....  Rick Riordan has outdone himself with his latest unforgettable mystery/thriller, The Devil Went Down to Austin.  His compelling, intricate plot comes at you from several different directions and is full of powerful, riveting scenes and his cast of terrific characters are original and well drawn.  But it's Mr Riordan's sharp, witty writing and attention to detail that really make this novel stand out.  With a stunning climax that ties up all the loose ends and a very satisfying ending, this is an intriguing story that's a &quot;must read&quot; for all mystery/thriller fans.  If you're new to the Tres Navarre series, start at the beginning with The Big Red Tequila and read them all.  If you're already hooked, you definitely won't be disappointed this time out!	2001-08-03
1893366:US	52793250	R2HIYD5JLAX3US	0399237089	194532229	Meet the Barkers: Morgan & Moffat Go to School (Barker Twins)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another Winner from Tomie dePaola	Though twins, Morgan and Moffat Barker couldn't be more different.  Moffie, the oldest by ten minutes is an over achiever with a real Type A personality, bossy, critical and competitive.  Her brother, Morgie, is a laid back, go with the flow kind of guy who likes everyone.  So when they start school, it isn't surprising that Moffie racks up the gold stars, shouting answers and always having to be the best, while Morgie, eases into the class.  He's not getting any gold stars, but he's making lots of new friends.  As the first week progresses, their teacher has a quiet little talk with Moffie, asking her not to shout out all the answers, wait her turn and give others a chance.  &quot;Now run along and play with your friends.&quot;  And that's when it hits Moffie.  She's been so busy being the best student, she hasn't made any friends and goes off to find her brother.  But, with a little encouragement from each other, the twins soon learn it's possible to have gold stars and friends, too.....  Tomie dePaola has done it again, written a simple, charming story with a gentle message that won't be lost on young students.  His expressive, humorous and familiar artwork complements the text beautifully and children will delight in watching this lovable pair work their way through school shopping and their first week as new students.  Perfect for early readers or as a family read aloud story, Meet the Barkers is hopefully the start of another terrific dePaola series and a picture book your kids will want to read again and again.	2001-08-03
1893668:US	52793250	R3OG04CN3Y4C74	0689838387	813612342	Waffle	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wonderful!	\\"Waffle worried/Waffle wiggled/Waffle wondered what if/Waffle wished that he would...\\"  Surrounded by encouraging smiley faces, indecisive, anxious, fearful Waffle suffers as he tries to get up the courage to take that next step.  \\"Waffle waffled.  He felt awful.  He was a waffler and wafflers waffle.\\"  But then he works a wonder from within and triumphs over his fear.....  Award winning artist, Chris Raschka has authored a very creative and ingenious picture book that young \\"wafflers\\" will easily be able to relate to.  His alliterative text is very spare.  The real story is told in Mr Raschka's wonderful artwork.  Waffle's face, just a smudge of paint on a bold solid background with pen drawn features elicits strong feelings as we watch him agonized over his decision to try.  The faces, whirl around him, always watching, forming shapes (a circle, a pinwheel...)until the big moment when their collective smiley faces change to those of awe and amazement.  Perfect for youngsters 5 and older, Waffle is a simple, little book that speaks volumes and should be a springboard to interesting, thoughtful discussions.	2001-08-02
1893772:US	52793250	R35IXKYOSK047Y	0062051695	423726898	Toby, What Are You?	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Toby's Back with More Fun and Games.....	When father arrives home after work, he finds Toby lying in front of their front door.  \\"What am I\\", asks Toby?  \\"Aha, a new doormat\\", answers his father.  Now let the games begin.  As the evening wears on from dinner, relaxing family time, to bedtime, Toby delights his family with his inventive guessing game, pretending to be among other things, a clothes tree, bridge, sandwich, flyswatter and even a mountain with snow on top..... Those who enjoyed William Steig's Toby, Where Are You, will be just as enchanted with this new addition to the series.  His simple guessing game text is beautifully complemented by Teryl Euvremer's soft, quiet, homey artwork and youngsters can put their imaginations to work as they guess right along with Toby's mother and father and even join in this interactive game.  Perfect for pre-schoolers, Toby, What are You is a charming and creative picture book you won't want to miss.	2001-08-02
1896129:US	52793250	RRK3ZL8ZIOJ2K	006027736X	745683519	A Fine, Fine School	Books	5	20	23	N	N	A Fine, Fine Book!	Tillie is a little red haired girl who lives with her parents, brother and dog, Bean.  She goes to school every day and learns about math and reading and all sorts of important things.  But on weekends, she spends her time at home, learning to climb the big tree in her yard, teaching her brother to skip and her dog to fetch.  Mr Keene is a principal who loves his school.  He's so proud of the students and teachers and all the good work they do.  &quot;Aren't these fine children?  Aren't these fine teachers?  Isn't this a fine, fine school?&quot;  In fact he's so excited about his school and all the fine, fine learning that goes on there that he decides the kids and teachers should have more school and adds Saturday to their week.  No one wanted to go to school on Saturdays, but they didn't want to disappoint Mr Keene since he was so proud of them.  Pretty soon, Mr Keene added Sundays and then holidays.  No one was happy, but they went along.  When he really went over the top and added summers too, Tillie decided to pay him a little visit.....  Award winning author, Sharon Creech, has written a delightful story that will tickle the funny bone of all youngsters getting ready to go back to school.  Her gentle, humorous text is only outdone by Harry Bliss' very clever and expressive artwork and children will enjoy all the special little details they find as they pore over the illustrations (marvelous facial expressions, posted notes, book titles, school banners...)  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, A Fine, Fine School is a treasure and a wonderful addition to all home bookshelves.	2001-08-01
1896925:US	52793250	R28CS8T37Y6T3K	0688173780	428513466	Sea, Sand, Me!	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Fun at the Beach.....	What's better than a sun-filled, fun-filled day at the beach.  Hearing the sea gulls squawk and playing in the sand.  Making a new friend and building a giant sand castle together.  You can put seashells on your toes and seaweed in your hair, play in the waves and get sand everywhere.  It's fun to eat a picnic lunch on your towel, play catch with a big beach ball, wave at faraway boats and explore the rocks and tidal pools finding starfish and minnows..... Patricia Hubbell has captured those wonderful carefree childhood days in her terrific new picture book and youngsters 3-7 will delight in all the glorious summer fun.  Told in lilting rhyme, her joyful text is enhanced by Lisa Campbell Ernst's soft, sun-shiny, expressive illustrations that will transport you to the beach on a perfect summer day even if the snow is falling outside your window.  Sea, Sand, Me! is a wonderful addition to your home library and a book children will beg to read again and again.	2001-07-31
1897786:US	52793250	R1E58HC368QFV	0525467106	904249210	Miss Bindergarten Takes a Field Trip with Kindergarten	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A New Miss Bindergarten Adventure.....	Join Miss Bindergarten as she and her wonderful alphabetically named animal class are off visiting community helpers on their first field trip.  But before you turn that first page, take a look at all the different shapes on Miss Bindergarten's easel and see if you can find them as you read the book.  First the class stops at the bakery where children learn to cut cookies and ice cakes.  Then it's on to the fire station where they try on gear, ring the bell, learn to stop drop and roll and watch Miss Bindergarten slide down the fire pole.  At the post office, the class looks at stamps and finds out where a letter goes after you mail it and at the library, they see what's new and catch up on story hour.  Last but not least, they're off to the park for a snack before heading back to school..... Ashley Wolff and Joseph Slate have authored a wonderful interactive story your children will want to read again and again.  Their delightful, humorous, rhyming text is complemented by bright, bold, expressive artwork that's full of busy detail and youngsters will enjoy finding all the shapes (circular cookies, square cake, rectangular envelope...) and letters in the pictures.  Perfect for youngsters 3-6, Miss Bindergarten Takes a Field Trip With Kindergarten is a charmer and a terrific new addition to this  series.	2001-07-31
1902605:US	52793250	R2QO3DIT9BFY3T	0759615675	479423806	Host to Homicide	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fast Paced, Page Turner.....	There's a killer loose in New York City and he's targeting talk show hosts.  He's brazen and clever and has law enforcement running around in circles.  Detectives Charlie Marchetti and Angela Buonfiglia, lead investigators on the case are at a loss, following leads that go nowhere and hitting nothing but blank walls.  But with the brass breathing down their necks, wanting this case solved, yesterday and the body count steadily rising, there finally might be a break.  The murderer has decided to make the &quot;game&quot; a little more interesting and sends Marchetti a letter..... Richard Wolf has written a fast paced, page turner that's about to keep you up reading, all night.  This is a mystery/thriller that has it all...smart, crisp writing, interesting, well drawn characters and a tight, compelling plot full of vivid, riveting scenes that sends you on a roller coaster ride to the stunning climax and very satisfying ending of the story.  Host to Homicide should definitely be on every mystery/thriller fan's &quot;must read&quot; list and is hopefully the beginning of a terrific new series.  I look forward to meeting up with Marchetti and Buonfiglio again in the near future.	2001-07-27
1904538:US	52793250	R1Q91QB7C18ZXA	0027749002	12293698	The Piggy in the Puddle	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Squishy-Squashy, Mooshy-Squooshy,Oofy-Poofy Fun.....	&quot;See the piggy,/See the puddle,/See the muddy little puddle./See the piggy in the middle/Of the muddy little puddle.&quot;  She dawdles and diddles.  She waddles in the merry middle.  She dives and paddles, wiggles and giggles and though she's making the rest of her family very angry, she's having a blast.  What's her daddy, mommy and brother to do?  No matter how hard they try to convince her to get out of the muddy middle of the puddle and wash up with soap, she always says &quot;Nope!&quot;  Well as the old saying goes...If you can't beat 'em, join 'em.  And that's just what each of them do.....  Charlotte Pomerantz's piggy puddle classic, is as fresh and delightful today as it was when she wrote it over twenty-five years ago.  Her joyful, rhyming text, full of silly verse, wordplay and tongue-twisting alliteration is complemented by James Marshall's very familiar, humorous and expressive illustrations and together this dynamic duo will have youngsters giggling and laughing out loud at the antics of this charming pig family.  Perfect for early readers, The Piggy in the Puddle makes an even better read aloud story the entire family will enjoy.  This is a book to treasure and share now and with each new generation to come.  Make sure you get your copy, today!	2001-07-25
1905239:US	52793250	RWRMCNWQ55A2D	0679889930	956269528	It's Me, Marva : A Story About Color and Optical Illusions	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fun with Color and Optical Illusions	Marva, that absent minded inventor, may not have been able to create the Ketch-o-matic, but she's making a lot of interesting discoveries where colors and illusions are concerned.  When ketchup splatters all over her yellow hair, she finds her hair has now turned orange (yellow + red = orange).  And when she washes her new blue jeans with a yellow scarf and red shirt, she finds herself now owning a green scarf and purple shirt (blue + red = purple, blue + yellow = green).  Why does her new blue vase look purple next to a red wall and why does her body in the red and blue dress all but disappear in a purple chair.....?  The answer to these and many more colorful questions are found in the very creative and innovative pages of It's Me, Marva.  Marjorie Priceman has taken some of the mystery out of color and optical illusions in this very clever, humorous and entertaining picture book.  Her simple explanatory story line and marvelous cut paper collages demonstrate a wealth of optical and color revelations that are both fun and informative and youngsters will be amazed and entranced by Marva's discoveries.  With an afterword explaining color mixing, optical mixing, vibration or motion, color change and afterimage in more detail, this is a simple and wonderful introduction to color theory and optical illusion.  Perfect for children 5-9, It's Me Marva is a winner!	2001-07-25
1905852:US	52793250	R3U97540REJXIL	0060283017	189591491	When Moon Fell Down	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Lovely Bedtime Adventure.....	&quot;When moon fell down one night.../Fell upon a farmer's lawn,/Rolled about in sheer delight/On fields he'd only shined upon.&quot;  So begins Linda Smith's lovely picture book about a night the moon fell to earth.  Having seen everything from only above for so long, the moon is eager to see the world from another vantage point.  &quot;He'd never seen the trunks of trees/Or blades below the farmer's plow./Moon didn't know a horse had knees,/But things were strangely sideways now.&quot;  Moon meets up  with a friendly cow and travels the night away on a delightful adventure through this small farming town, until at dawn a perturbed farmer sends both back where they belong.  &quot;Moon! he cried.  This isn't right!/Cow, how dare you roam!/A moon belongs in the sky at night,/And a cow belongs at home.&quot;..... Ms Smith's   evocative, rhyming text is soft, soothing and full of imagery and magic and beautifully complemented by Kathryn Brown's subdued, detailed and expressive artwork.  Together, they've authored a charming bedtime story the entire family will share and enjoy, again and again.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, When Moon Fell Down is a treasure and a book that's sure to become a classic in the years ahead.	2001-07-25
1909674:US	52793250	RSHSYERV1R90N	0738827312	483418060	La Chute	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Powerful Evocative Novel	In the summer of 1968, Edward Dolan Jr was ten years old and living with his mother and sister, in Hawaii while his father, an army lieutenant, was on a tour of duty in Viet Nam.  It was also the year his best friend, Carrie, accidently fell from a cliff to her death.  Edward remembers that he tried to save her.  He held on to her wrists as long as he could before she slipped away.  Now, 32 years later, as he's stopped at a light on a Los Angeles street, he observes a gang incident that causes a flashback and brings the memory of that day, the worst day of his life, into focus. Only now he's not so sure what really happened.....  Terrence Dunn has written a powerful and compelling novel that weaves a seamless story of three lives:  Edward, his father and Carrie, together, on that one fateful day.  His well paced plot is tense and suspenseful, as you're drawn into the story and catapulted back to the Viet Nam War and the sixties and his eloquent writing is crisp and spare.  But it's Mr Dunn's very original and painstakingly drawn characters that makes this book really stand out.  With a stunning climax that will leave you breathless, La Chute is an amazing story you won't be able to put down and a novel you'll want to lend and share and talk about.	2001-07-22
1913743:US	52793250	R2RYGWQ6J722Z1	0375902929	693675375	Junie B. Jones Is A Graduation Girl (Junie B. Jones 17, Library Binding)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Junie B is Back and Better than Ever.....	It's hard to believe, but the kindergarten class in room nine is about to graduate.  The children are excited with all the preparations, making invitations, writing a class graduation poem and receiving the boxes that hold their caps and gowns.  The caps and gowns are white and white gets dirty very easily, their teacher tells them.  She says to take them home, don't play with them, don't even open the boxes until the big day.  Of course this is all Junie B has to hear.  She just has to take a peek and maybe show off her gown to her stuffed animal friends and twirl and whirl a little.  All that modeling makes her feel pooped and thirsty, so she figures she'll go to the kitchen and get a glass of grape juice.....  Nobody captures the essence of the kindergarten aged child like Barbara Park and children will easily identify with Junie B.  This irrepressible, precocious and lovable youngster has places to go, people to meet and things to see.  She's ready for the world;  she just hasn't quite mastered listening, following directions and self-control.  Ms Park's humorous text is down to earth, written in easy to read, kid-speak language and complemented by Denise Brunkus' delightful illustrations and youngsters will laugh out loud at the antics of Junie B, her family, teacher, the principal and the entire class.  Perfect for readers 5-8, Junie B Jones is a Graduation Girl is a funny, heart-warming story with a gentle message and a terrific addition to this wonderful series.	2001-07-18
1914093:US	52793250	R1GK6NJBLUR10T	0060284625	87124307	How Little Lori Visited Times Square	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An Adventure in New York	All little Lori wanted to do was visit Times Square.  But no matter how hard he tried to get there, things just didn't work out.  He started at 8th Street and took the subway.  But instead of going to Times Square, he ended up at South Ferry.  So he took a bus and got off at 242nd Street, nowhere near Times Square.  He hailed a taxi, but the driver wouldn't take him to Times Square because he had no money.  So he rode the elevated subway, but ended up at his Uncle Eddie's house in Queens.  And on and on to Staten Island, Idlewild Airport, Central Park and even the 125th floor of Macy's, but not Times Square.  Poor Lori had had enough.  He sat down on the sidewalk and cried and that's when the talking turtle came walking by.  He knew exactly how to get to Times Square..... Written in 1963, Amos Vogel's charming and clever little story is as fresh today, as it was almost 40 years ago.  His simple, spare text is wonderfully complemented by Maurice Sendak's inventive, humorous and familiar artwork and together they've authored an ageless treasure the entire family will enjoy.  Perfect for children 4-8, How Little Lori Visited Times Square is a winner and a story youngsters will want to read again and again.	2001-07-18
1914805:US	52793250	RKTOZ0PLTZ2JQ	0689832354	749387839	Ted (English and English Edition)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fun with an Imaginary Friend	Ted arrived just after the narrator's birthday.  He was huge, purple pink, loved raspberries and was ready to play with the still unplayed with birthday presents (father was too busy and just hadn't had time, yet).  After a great game of Monopoly Twister Ted decided to give the young man a hair cut and shave.  Father wasn't happy with the results and called Ted imaginary.  So Ted decided the easiest way to show father he was real was for the two of them to draw his portrait.  Since no piece of paper was large enough, they decided to use the wall.  Father didn't appreciate the artwork and was very angry.  Ted and his young cohort figured father needed to relax and play and that an indoor swimming pool would be fun, so they flooded father's study with the garden hose.  Father was very, very angry and banned all imaginary friends from the house.  If Ted had to go, the little boy decided, then he'd go with him and left his father a note saying he was going to live, with Ted, at the old playground...... Tony Diterlizzi has really captured the essence of a little boy who, more than anything wants to spend time and play with his dad.  His charming, witty text is only outdone by his superb large, colorful and expressive illustrations that bring the story to life and imaginations will soar as children  pore over all the vivid detail in each picture.  Youngsters will laugh out loud as they enjoy the antics of this unusual dynamic duo trying to engage father in their fun.  With a happily ever after ending that will warm your heart and a simple, gentle message, &quot;Sometimes, when people grow up, they forget how to have fun.&quot;, Ted is perfect for youngsters 4-8 and a wonderful read aloud story the whole family should share, together.	2001-07-18
1916180:US	52793250	R29I44JCPD0X6G	0439135257	961916113	Book! Book! Book!	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Barnyard Fun.....	The poor farm animals are bored.  The kids have all gone back to school and left them alone.  The horse hung his head, the cow complained, the goat grumbled, the pig pouted, the duck dozed and the hen heaved a sigh and squawked &quot;I'm bored!  And I'm heading to town to find something to do!&quot;  So off they all went.  Soon they got to town and found themselves in front of the library.  It looked like a good place to visit since the people coming out all had smiles on their faces, so the horse went inside, approached the librarian and said neigh neigh.  The librarian just stood there and looked puzzled.  The horse hung his head and left.  Next the cow (moo moo) tried, then the goat (baaah baaah) and pig (oink oink), with the same results.  Finally the feisty hen went inside and spoke &quot;Book, Book, Book!&quot; with different results..... Deborah Bruss has written a funny, gentle story that will capture your little one's imaginations.  Her simple text is beautifully complemented by Tiphanie Beeke's cheerful, humorous, childlike illustrations and youngsters will enjoy all the entertaining detail on each page.  Perfect for preschoolers, Ms Bruss' debut picture book is a winner.	2001-07-17
1916482:US	52793250	R28XGWGR7C4SNH	0060246839	759884016	Franny B. Kranny, There's a Bird in Your Hair!	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dare to be Different	Franny B Kranny loved her long red frizzy hair even if it was always getting stuck in things and causing trouble.  So when her mother drags her to the hairdresser before a family reunion, she isn't happy.  The hairdresser does his best to pin it up and make it look neat, while Franny schemes to undo his work as soon as she's out of the chair.  But as she leaves the salon, a bird lands on her head, snuggles down in her hair and calls it home.  Her family is appalled, but Franny is thrilled and very careful not to disturb the bird even sleeping upright in a chair.  The next day at the reunion, Franny's family is so embarrassed they keep their distance.  But the rest of her relatives are fascinated and Franny soon becomes the center of attention.  Pretty soon, her family comes around and agrees that she has the most wonderful head of hair and should never cut it.  And that's when Franny surprises everyone..... The dynamic team of Harriet Lerner and Susan Goldhor have written a marvelous story about an individual who dares to be different and really knows her own mind.  Their charming, witty text is complemented by Helen Oxenbury's bright, expressive and humorous illustrations that really captures the essence of strong willed Franny and the rest of her unusual family.  Both children and adults will be laughing out loud at the antics of this wonderful little girl.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Franny B Kranny, There's a Bird in your Hair is a treasure and a book kids want to read again and again.	2001-07-17
1921683:US	52793250	R3APZKUIYT9FWD	0399146725	839853850	The Jury	Books	2	4	5	N	N	A Thriller Without the Thrills.....	Paul Madriani and his partner, Harry Hinds may have finally met their match.  Their client, Dr David Crone, is very secretive and seems to be doing everything he can to stonewall his own defense.  When the strangled and dismembered body of Crone's colleague, Kalista Jordan, is found washed up on a Southern California beach, the police zero in on Dr Crone, immediately.  He had means, opportunity and most of all a strong motive.  It seems the very ambitious Kalista was after his job as head of a top-secret genetics research project, had filed a sexual harrassment complaint and was seen arguing publicly with Crone only hours before her death.  But when the prosecution's star witness is found dead the day before he's to testify, leaving behind evidence that Crone is innocent, Paul Madriani isn't satisfied with his client's probable acquittal and goes looking for the whole truth..... Though the premise of The Jury is promising and provocative, Steve Martini doesn't deliver.  The plot has a few good moments, but for the most part just plods along very deliberately and is neither tense, nor compelling.  You're always waiting for something exciting to happen to get the story moving along.  Mr Martini's writing is uninspired and awkward, at times and his characters, usually so well drawn and developed, are flat, lifeless and one dimensional this time out.  For those who are fans of the Paul Madriani series, there isn't much to recommend in this book.  For those new to author Steve Martini, skip this one and read some of his great earlier thrillers, Compelling Evidence, Prime Witness or Undue Influence.  The Jury is disappointing and a legal thriller without the thrills.	2001-07-12
1936092:US	52793250	RKI9PGYVNX74A	0689822154	767144257	Jimmy Zangwow's Out-of-This-World Moon-Pie Adventure	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Outer Space Adventure	What would you do for a Moon Pie and milk?  When Jimmy Zangwow's mother tells him he can't have a snack because it's too close to dinner, he takes matters into his own hands, jumps into his secret project, a junk jumbilee jalopy and takes off for the moon.  The man in the moon has plenty of Moon Pies, but no milk, so he suggests Jimmy visit the Milky Way.  The Milky Way has gallons and quarts and pints of milk, but there's also a Grimble Grinder living there, with a grumble-rumble so loud that Jimmy's jalopy flips and he, the Moon Pies and milk tumble straight down to Mars where he meets Martians who will do anything for a Moon Pie and milk..... Tony DiTerlizzi has authored a very delightful and creative story that will let little imaginations soar as youngsters join Jimmy on his magical space adventure.  His humorous text, full of wordplay, jokes and alliteration is only outdone by Mr DiTerlizzi's outstanding, bold, brilliant and  expressive artwork and children will love poring over all the wonderful details in each picture.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Jimmy Zangwow's Out-of-this-World Moon Pie Adventure is a winner and a galactic journey, no future astronaut should miss.	2001-07-02
1936288:US	52793250	R1T7KXLGLMWVBZ	0590987879	331571517	The Spider Weaver: A Legend Of Kente Cloth	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Wonderful Ghanaian Tale	Two weavers, walking through the jungle on their way home to their Ashanti village, find an amazing web, unlike anything they've ever seen, in a banana tree.  Both men want to bring the web home so that they can study its unique and intricate design, but when they try to detach it from the tree, it falls apart and is ruined.  When one of the weavers tells his wife about their lost discovery, she suggests that even though they can't find the web again, they may be able to find the weaver.  So the two men go back to the banana tree and as they approach, see the beginnings of another marvelous creation.  As they watch, they realize that this master web weaver is a spider.  The men spend the day watching the spider do her weaving dance, twisting, turning and dipping as she moves back and forth across her web.  By the end of the day, the weavers have learned her special technique and hurry home to begin weaving this new design which they name kente-nwen-ntoma, or Kente cloth.....  Margaret Musgrove's well researched retelling of this wonderful Ghanaian legend will charm and delight children of all ages.  Her simple, gentle text is beautifully complemented by Julia Cairns' bold, vibrant watercolor artwork and together this dynamic duo brings this very visual folktale to life.  Perfect for youngsters 5 and up, The Spider Weaver includes an afterword about the story and the history of Kente cloth and is a terrific introduction to African folklore that shouldn't be missed.	2001-07-02
1936518:US	52793250	R117HZF08RRZQT	0679891862	46866578	Only Passing Through: The Story of Sojourner Truth	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Voice of Freedom.....	Anne Rockwell's moving picture book biography of Sojourner Truth is a powerful and evocative story that will draw youngsters in and take them on a journey toward freedom with an amazing woman.  Born into slavery, Isabella was taken away from her parents when she was only nine, sold three times, threatened, beaten and lost her own children to slavery before she was finally freed.  Though she never learned to read or write, she  challenged the system of buying and selling people in court, traveled around the country, spoke out against slavery and became one of the most powerful voices in the abolitionist movement.  She was a sojourner, one who is only passing through and her mission was to speak the truth about the evils of slavery..... Ms Rockwell's passionate and eloquently written biography is complemented by Gregory Christie's beautifully rich paintings and together they've authored a story about this remarkable woman that's full of courage and strength.  With an author's note and timeline at the end to augment and enhance discussions, Only Passing Through is a wonderful book, perfect for youngsters 9-12 and a story few will soon forget.	2001-07-02
1937344:US	52793250	R2UDJ3HOL93603	0060288051	989781635	I Love Going Through This Book	Books	5	19	19	N	N	The Joys of Reading.....	As our narrator tells us, &quot;I love going through this book./Just watch me do it./No matter how long it takes,/I'm going all the way through it!  And with an invitation like that, how can you resist turning the page and joining him and his animal friends.  Our young guide teaches us that the pages of a book are like doors, each taking us somewhere new.  We travel through a meadow, a forest and a cave.  We play in autumn leaves, raft down a river in summer and play in the snow in winter.  We see the starry sky, new people, places and things and when we're through and finished reading, we can catch our collective breaths and walk around to the front of the book and read it with him all over again..... Robert Burleigh has written a very creative and innovative introduction to the joys of reading as he demonstrates so cleverly that you can go anywhere, do anything and be anyone when you read a book.  His light, simple joyful text, told in rhyme, is complemented by award winning artist, Dan Yaccarino's vibrant, imaginative, humorous illustrations.  I Love Going Through This Book is perfect for early readers and a wonderful read aloud story youngsters 3-7 will want to hear again and again.	2001-07-01
1937677:US	52793250	R1TBKJKW7TPMNC	0786809027	45566190	Milo's Hat Trick	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Little Magic for Everyone.....	Milo is a terrible magician.  None of his tricks work, he can't even pull a rabbit out of his hat and Mr Popovich, the theater manager, is giving him just one more chance to get it right or he's through.  So off Milo goes to the woods, with a carrot on a stick, looking for a rabbit.  He doesn't find a rabbit, but he does find a very friendly bear who is willing to join the act and help him out.  As Milo watches, the bear jumps up and dives into the hat, disappearing completely.  &quot;You just pretend your bones are made of rubber&quot;.  After several hilarious mishaps, Milo and the bear finally get back to the theater just in time for the show..... Jon Agee has authored a delightful picture book that is sure to keep youngsters giggling and laughing to the end, as they enjoy the antics of this unusual dynamic duo.  His clever, witty, humorous text is only outdone by his marvelous large and expressive cartoon-like artwork that will charm children and adults, alike.  Perfect for kids 4-8, Milo's Hat Trick is a winner and one of this summer's best new books.	2001-07-01
1937831:US	52793250	R2W2K5JTNI2HDR	0763612901	783180514	The Very Kind Rich Lady and Her One Hundred Dogs	Books	5	40	41	N	N	For Little Dog Lovers, Everywhere.....	Based on a true story, Chinlun Lee has written and illustrated a delightful picture book about a very rich and kind lady who adopted one hundred dogs.  They all live together in a tall house on a hill where the lady takes care of all their needs.  She brushes them everyday and checks them for fleas, talks to them, fusses over them, feeds them and then calls each by name to come outside and play.  There's Papa (he's the first) and Mr Samuel, Mary and Fifi.  There's Fifi's puppies, Eeny, Meeny, Miney and Mo (that's eight)...on and on until she finally calls her one hundredth dog, Bingo, who's always late..... Ms Lee's gentle text is beautifully complemented by her simple, joyful watercolor and pencil illustrations.  Each dog is carefully drawn to show its individuality and personality and youngsters will enjoy poring over the pages, finding their favorites.  Perfect for pre-schoolers as young as two, The Very Kind Rich Lady and her One Hundred Dogs is a charming book that shouldn't be missed.	2001-07-01
1941416:US	52793250	R3PX3R7JD9HDR1	0312265840	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Rockin' and Rollin' in Trenton.....	Stephanie Plum, bounty hunter from hell, is trying to bring in Eddie DeChooch, a semi-wiseguy who got nailed trafficking contraband cigarettes and missed his court date because, he says, he's depressed.  Picking him up shouldn't be that hard.  He's almost eighty (Grandma Mazur won't even date him), practically blind and is driving around in an easy to spot, white cadillac.  Unfortunately, he's also carrying a gun and likes to use it and after being shot at several times, Stephanie figures she's going to need some help bringing him in and turns to her mentor, Ranger.  Ranger's more than happy to oblige, but wants a little payback in the form of one long night, in bed.  What's a girl to do?  She needs the help, big time, needs the money, car payment due and in all honesty, Ranger is hot!  But then so is Joe Morelli, her now fiance, sort of, and she's not so sure she wants to screw that up.  If that's not enough, potheads Dougie and Mooner go missing, two old goons, also looking for DeChooch are continually breaking into her apartment wanting information she doesn't have, perfect sister Valerie's husband runs off and Val comes home to Trenton  bringing her two not so perfect children with her and Bob, the wonder dog, is eating just about everything in sight..... Janet Evanovich is back with a high speed, manic romp through Trenton that will have you rooting and cheering for Stephanie, all the way.  Her marvelously unique cast of characters are wacky, quirky and larger than life and her scenes, vivid and doubled over, laugh out loud funny.  But it's her crisp, witty writing and unrivaled dialogue that really makes this book stand out and nobody does it better.  Even though the plot is a bit thin and some of the antics and thrills (another car disaster, another cliff hanger ending...) overdone and getting tiresome, it just doesn't matter because spending time with Stephanie and company is, as always, pure joy.  For those new to the series, begin with One for the Money and read them all.  For those who are already fans, you won't be disappointed this time out...it was worth the wait!	2001-06-28
1942864:US	52793250	R1J1K3TSGXJHAB	078680419X	378143488	The Web Files	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dum-De-Dum-Dum Fun!	&quot;6:32AM, My partner Bill and I were working the barnyard shift.  It was peaceful.  Quiet.  Then we got the call.&quot;  There was a robbery at the hen house...peppers, purple almost pickled peppers.  Back at headquarters, the place was really jumping.  A miss named Muffet had been tossed off her tuffet.  A gal named Peep was missing sheep and Horner was in the corner trying to make Boy Blue quack.  As Ducktective Web and his sidekick Bill try and &quot;quack the case&quot;, they're called to the scene of another robbery.  &quot;10:43AM, Corner of Barn and Pen.&quot;  More vanishing vegetables.  A horse is missing tomatoes and a sheep, lettuce.  Looks like the makings of a salad.  And there's only one suspect who's M.O. fits the crime, Dirty Rat.  &quot;Book him, Ducko!&quot;.....   From the time and place that begins each scene, to the Dum-de-dum-dums, to the dead-pan narration by Ducktective Web, Margie Palatini has outdone herself with this parody of the TV show, Dragnet.  Her ingenious text is full of humor, alliteration,  wordplay and puns and both kids and adults alike, will be laughing out loud at the antics of this crime fighting duo.  Richard Egielski's colorful, expressive, detailed artwork complements the story perfectly and youngsters will love finding their favorite nursery rhyme characters, used so cleverly in the story.  Although, adults will relish the inside jokes, you don't have to be a fan of Dragnet, or even know the series to enjoy this book.  Perfect for children 4 and older, The Web Files is a terrific book the entire family can share and a wonderful addition to all home libraries.	2001-06-27
1943944:US	52793250	R2HQO1UF9HMUOW	0449006409	798192189	Dying to Be Murdered (Jennifer Marsh Mysteries)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Murder and Mayhem in Macon	Aspiring, though still unpublished writer, Jennifer Marsh, has gotten herself into a real mess.  At the request of a fellow writer and good friend, she's taken the job of &quot;babysitting&quot; aging Macon socialite, Mary Bedford Ashton and keeping a careful record of everything that goes on in her house.  Ms Ashton is convinced that her deceased husband's sister, Eileen McEvoy, is about to kill her so that the house and Ashton fortune will be returned to its &quot;rightful&quot; owner and she wants Jennifer to make sure the killer doesn't get away with murder.  Ms McEvoy has already taken her to court, but that didn't work and now Mary is finding threatening notes telling her the end is near.  Jennifer moves into the mansion thinking Ms Ashton is a bit senile and nothing's going to happen, but she couldn't be more wrong.  On her very first night in residence, Jennifer's awakened by Mary's terrible  screams and when she finally makes her way to Mary's room, finds the bedding soaked in blood and Mary's body  missing.  Now Jennifer feels obligated to keep her promise and find Mary Ashton's killer.....  Judy Fitzwater has really honed her craft and this is the best Jennifer Marsh mystery to date.  Her writing is witty, crisp and very entertaining, her fast paced plot, full of twists, turns and surprises and her original characters, just terrific.  This is a mystery that has it all...a huge old mansion, creepy housekeeper, colorful victim, tight lipped suspects who seem to know more than they're telling and a hardworking, likeable, though sometimes inept detective.  Dying to be Murdered is the fifth book in this delightful series.  For those new to Jennifer Marsh and company start at the beginning with Dying to get Published and read them all.  For those who are already fans, you certainly won't be disappointed this time out.	2001-06-26
1943952:US	52793250	RHGP70HHHXJK3	0689839928	513173763	Wheres Wallace	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hilary Knight's Timeless Classic	Way before there was Waldo, there was Wallace, an orangutan with long orange fur who lives at the zoo.  Everybody loves Wallace and his cage is always surrounded by happy, laughing people.  Mr Frumbee, his zookeeper, has always treated Wallace like one of his own family and they are special friends.  They often eat together, or read books, or just have a good time.  But even though he has a very good life at the zoo, Wallace wanted to get out and see some of the world Mr Frumbee was always telling him about.  One day Mr Frumbee didn't close Wallace's cage door tightly and he escaped to the department store..... Hilary Knight's classic story of an adventurous monkey is truly as wonderful today, as it was when he wrote it 37 years ago.  His charming and humorous text, with clues to help find Wallace, is only outdone by his marvelously intricate panoramic illustrations, full of energy, busy activity and detail.  Children will revel in the fun of helping Mr Frumbee find Wallace over and over again, at the department store, beach, baseball game, nature museum, circus, amusement park and even out in the country, picnicking.  And for those who find Wallace and are up to an additional challenge, check out the totem pole at the museum, for a hint and then locate his six friends in each picture, that always travel with him.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Where's Wallace is a timeless family classic to be shared and treasured for many generations to come.	2001-06-26
1945665:US	52793250	R1A0T06P8RYIE4	0060289007	109391882	I Love Trains!	Books	5	21	21	N	N	For Little Train Lovers Everywhere...	A little &quot;engineer&quot;, complete with striped hat, watches out the window as a long train rolls by.  As every car crosses each two page spread of this book, he tells us about what it's used for and what it might be carrying.  And as the caboose finally rounds the bend, we all get to see why this little boy loves trains..... Philemon Sturges has written a delightful picture book that will charm and amuse all young train lovers.  His simple, gentle, happy text, told in rhyme and full of rhythm and motion is complemented by Shari Halpern's large, bold, childlike illustrations and small children will enjoy the color and detail.  With additional information about trains and their cars on the inside front and back covers, I Love Trains is perfect for pre-schoolers and future engineers, everywhere.	2001-06-25
1945807:US	52793250	R19AEOE55IGDZD	0763614041	443746927	Colors	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Great Fun with Colors	Robert Crowther is back and exploring color and youngsters won't be able to get enough of this book.  Made with heavy, durable stock, each two page spread introduces and concentrates on one bold, vibrant color (red, yellow, green, pink, blue, orange, black and white), by first introducing the color name and then using creative pictures to teach, and little hands will lift flaps and pull tabs to see and learn more.  With 80 hidden pictures and 30 pull tabs, this is the perfect interactive book for pre-schoolers as young as two.	2001-06-25
1951334:US	52793250	R2S0OSMZMKHMVY	0312268947	955957073	The Hunting Wind: An Alex McKnight Mystery (Alex McKnight Mysteries (Hardcover)) (Alex McKnight Novels)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Alex  McKnight is Back and Better than Ever	It may be April, but in Paradise, on Michigan's upper peninsula, it still feels like the middle of winter.  Alex McKnight, retired Detroit policeman with a bullet still lodged near his heart and reluctant private investigator, is having a beer and enjoying the fire at the Glasgow Inn when in walks Randy Wilkins, a flash from his minor league baseball playing past.  Thirty years ago, Randy got his chance to pitch in the majors.  He was sent up to the Tigers, where he pitched exactly one infamous inning that all but killed his career.  But during the week that he spent in Detroit, he met a young woman, Maria Valeska, a woman he claims is the love of his life, that he's never forgotten and now he'd like Alex to help him find her again.  The whole story sounds ridiculous, like something out of a bad movie and with a thirty year old cold trail, Alex tries to convince Wilkins that the search is pointless.  But Randy won't let go of the idea and pretty soon, they're on their way to Detroit.  As their search progresses, Alex begins to realize he's caught in the middle of something a lot bigger and a lot more sinister than a simple search for lost love and as mayhem and murder ensues, that he'll be lucky to get back to Paradise alive..... Award winning novelist, Steve Hamilton, has done it again, written a tight, compelling mystery that's about to keep you up, reading, all night.  His intricate, well paced plot is suspenseful, with vivid, riveting scenes and full of atmosphere and tension.  His well drawn, colorful characters are interesting and original.  But it's the crisp, spare, well crafted writing that really makes this book stand out and Mr Hamilton shows a very talented ear for dialogue.  With a stunning conclusion that ties up all the loose ends, The Hunting Wind is definitely a book that shouldn't be missed.  This is the third installment of a terrific series and each book just gets better.  Do yourself a favor and read them all!	2001-06-20
1953010:US	52793250	R2RA5NGTV3BE0A	0618007016	111923730	The Three Pigs	Books	5	39	40	N	N	No Ordinary Fairy Tale	Everyone knows the story of The Three Pigs.  They build their houses of straw and wood and brick.  The big bad wolf comes and huffs and puffs and... David Wiesner has taken this old tale and given it a clever and very inventive twist.  Instead of being eaten, the pigs escape, take their book apart to confuse and keep the wolf away, build a paper airplane and fly off on a fairy tale adventure of their own.  Mr Wiesner keeps his humorous text spare and simple and let's his marvelous artwork tell the story.  Youngster's imaginations will soar as they examine the colorful, expressive and detailed illustrations.  Perfect for children 4-8, The Three Pigs tells an old familiar story in a new, creative and innovative way and is a MUST for all home libraries.	2001-06-19
1954732:US	52793250	R1G0CU4VGERBES	0810944863	841281485	Toni's Topsy-Turvy Telephone Day	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Let's Play Telephone.....	Toni has decided to have a potluck party and calls six of her good friends on the phone, to tell them what to bring.  Unfortunately, they all live or work in noisy environments and can't quite hear her instructions clearly.  Ruth lives near the airport and instead of punch and lemonade brings a pooch and a maid.  Vera, the dogwalker can't make out steak for kabob and brings a snake and a snob instead.  Fiona was supposed to supply the salad and juice, but she lives by the fire station and brought a sailor and a moose.  And so on...  Now Toni has even more guests than she knows what to do with, and no food for her party.  Her quick thinking and noisy friends solve the problem by calling and ordering pizza, but even the pizza man can't quite hear the order correctly..... Laura Ljungkvist has written a delightful and inventive story that anyone who has ever played the game of telephone will easily identify with.  Her humorous text is only outdone by her amazingly creative and innovative illustrations, full of bold colors, geometric shapes and a telephone line that literally connects the entire assemblage from the beginning of the story to the end.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Toni's Topsy Turvy Telephone Day is a winner the entire family will enjoy and is sure to have everyone giggling and laughing every time it's read.	2001-06-18
1955965:US	52793250	R3AZK0T63BTUOQ	0590100416	479422079	The Great Gracie Chase: Stop that Dog!	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Day Gracie Got Away.....	Gracie is a good little dog who likes a nice quiet house.  She never caused a bit of trouble until the day the painters came.   The painters drove up in their noisy truck, yelling back and forth to each other, dragging furniture and clanging ladders and Gracie began to bark.  She barked and barked, but the painters wouldn't leave.  Instead, they put her outside, so that she wouldn't disturb THEM.  Gracie saw the open gate and decided to take a little walk all by herself.  She had just set off down the street, when she heard someone shout, &quot;Where's Gracie?&quot; and that's when the Great Gracie Chase began..... Cynthia Rylant has written a delightful and vivid story that's full of energy and magic.  Her easy to read text is complemented by Mark Teague's bold, bright and expressive artwork that pulls you into the story and let's you join the chase.  With each page, the chaos grows larger and busier, until it almost spills off the page.  Together, they've authored a charming and humorous book that's perfect for youngsters 3-7.  The Great Gracie Chase is a winner and a wonderful addition to all home bookshelves.	2001-06-17
1957054:US	52793250	R2YPM4EZ2COPXM	0590522485	56775622	The Hickory Chair	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Beautiful Evocative Story	As Gran always told him, Louis was her favorite youngest grandchild.  Their relationship was so close and special.  He remembers how she always smelled of lilacs and bleach and how her voice sounded like molasses.  He remembers her salty kisses and the games of touch your nose and hide and seek with his cousins.  And he remembers how his Gran told him that even though he was blind, he could still see as well as anyone, because he had &quot;blind sight&quot;.  But mostly he remembers sitting on her lap in the hickory chair his grandfather had made from a tree that grew right where he built their house, reading and telling stories and sharing.  When Gran died, she wanted everyone in the family to have something special that belonged to her and so she left notes all around her little house and sent the family on a treasure hunt.  Louis was the best finder because he knew Gran so well and pretty soon everyone had found their notes and had their special possessions.  Everyone, but Louis.  How could his Gran have forgotten her favorite youngest grandchild?  So Louis picked from what was left, the old hickory chair and once he had climbed up and sat down, the missing note didn't matter so much because he felt like he was back on Gran's lap..... Lisa Rowe Fraustino has written a tender, gentle, poignant story that reaches out to both children and adults alike.  Her eloquent text is full of imagery and magic and complemented by Benny Andrews' beautifully expressive and innovative artwork.  You'll swear you can hear Gran's molasses voice, smell the scent of lilacs and bleach and taste her salty kisses.  And many years later, as Louis sits with his youngest favorite grandchild in the old hickory chair, they make a discovery that will put a smile on each and every readers face.  Perfect for youngsters 6-10, The Hickory Chair is storytelling at its very best and will touch your heart with its insight and wisdom.	2001-06-16
1961491:US	52793250	RYV84VWBTAL2C	157566643X	450119686	Witness For The Defense (Kali O'Brien Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Jonnie Jacobs' Back and Better than Ever.....	It was supposed to be a simple adoption.  Attorney, Kali O'Brien had seen to it that everything was in place and would go smoothly.  The birth mother, Melissa, a young college student who wanted her old life back, had signed all the necessary papers terminating her rights, as had the father and Terri and Ted Harper had brought their beautiful new daughter home.  Within days, what all thought was a final adoption began to fall apart.  Obnoxious, controversial radio talk show host, Bram Weaver, claims he's the baby's father and he wants his daughter.  When Melissa doesn't dispute his claim, the Harpers are devastated and Kali gets to work preparing for an uphill custody battle that in her heart she knows her clients don't have a chance of winning.  But when Weaver is found shot to death and evidence begins piling up against Terri, Kali begins a new fight to not only save her client, but to put this family back together.....  Jonnie Jacobs has written a fast paced, page turner that's about to keep you up, reading all night.  &quot;Ripped from the headlines&quot;, her plot is compelling, with scenes full of suspenseful and riveting detail.  Her characters are interesting and real and her writing, very crisp and smart, with good down to earth dialogue.  As a practicing attorney, Ms Jacobs' expertise in the law and courtroom procedure, adds real credibility to the story.  Witness for the Defense is a great read and a book that should be on all mystery/legal thriller lovers summer reading lists.	2001-06-13
1962700:US	52793250	R1QCN1SC0N7V55	0399147195	469684331	P is for Peril : A Kinsey Millhone Mystery	Books	4	7	8	N	N	P is for Pretty Good	Nursing home administrator, Doctor Dowan Purcell went missing nine weeks ago.  He left his office on a Friday evening and was never seen or heard from again.  The police have followed up on the few leads they had and are now more or less in a holding pattern, about ready to put the case on a back burner.  Enter private investigator, Kinsey Millhone.  Dow's ex-wife hires her figuring that maybe one dedicated detective with a single minded mission will be able to break the case wide open.  Kinsey's off and running, interviewing Dow's new and very young wife, his friends, business associates and employees and everyone of them is pointing fingers and has a theory as to what might have happened and why he's gone.  But when by pure chance, Kinsey makes a shocking discovery, nothing's going to stop her until she gets to the truth..... Sue Grafton's back and though this isn't one of her stronger mysteries, Kinsey Millhone junkies should be happy to be on the case with their favorite heroine.  The writing is great, the dialogue, superb and the descriptions and detail, unrivaled.  But the book has some problems.  The main plot line is weak and complicated and at times hard to follow and Ms Grafton leaves a few too many plot lines hanging and questions, unanswered at the unsatisfying end of the story.  The characters, though well drawn, are mostly a nasty lot and hard to empathize with or care about.  You just don't want to spend time with these people.  The real highlight of the book is the subplot involving a new office and mysterious twin landlords and I kept looking forward to getting off Dow's case and back to that part of the story.  All in all, not one of the best in the series, but a good entertaining read that Grafton fans won't want to miss.	2001-06-12
1965096:US	52793250	R3N0PBJ9LZ4HXB	0670896861	799944370	Froggy Eats Out	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Froggy's Back with Another Pre-school Adventure	Froggy's going out to dinner tonight to help celebrate his parent's wedding anniversary.  He's hoping for burgers and flies, but instead the family's eating at Chez Yum, a fancy sit down restaurant with tablecloths, candles and flowers on the table.  Froggy has only three rules to remember...be neat, be quiet and no feet on the table.  But even three rules are too many for this little pre-school frog.  While waiting for dinner to arrive, he spills his water glass, fidgets and plays with the salt.  Then he spends some time playing with the silverware, pulling petals off the flowers, blowing out the candles and sucking on sugar cubes and ice.  Froggy finally can't take the  wait any longer and gets off his chair, hopping and flopping and singing all over the restaurant.  As dinner arrives, he sees a friend across the room, and while trying to hide under the table, pulls the entire meal onto the floor..... Nobody captures the essence of a busy pre-schooler, with places to go, people to see and things to do, as well as Jonathan London and Frank Remkiewicz.  Their creative and descriptive text is full of energy and sound effects and complemented by wonderfully bright and expressive artwork.  Children and adults alike will smile, giggle and laugh as they watch the sometimes all too familiar antics of this little frog and his family.  Froggy Eats Out is a terrific new addition to this popular series and a picture book that shouldn't be missed.	2001-06-10
1965150:US	52793250	RPSRI7JJ4B5YC	0805063854	952860504	Dumpy La Rue	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dumpy will Capture your Imagination	Dumpy La Rue knew what he wanted to do.  Though his family tried to discourage him...pigs grunt and grovel, they bellow and wallow and snuffle truffles, Dumpy knew his own mind and wouldn't be swayed.  What he wanted to do was dance.  And so while the rest of the barnyard watched, &quot;He twirled in the sty,/ raised his snout to the sky,/ spread his hooves far and wide/ and pretended to fly.&quot;  And pretty soon interest among the farm animals was brimming.  They all wanted to dance too.  But how to get started?  So Dumpy offered a bit of advice.  &quot;If you want to dance,/if you want to glide,/just close your eyes/and listen inside.&quot;..... Elizabeth Winthrop and Betsy Lewin have authored a marvelously expressive story full of rhythm, motion, imagery and magic that will charm and delight both children and adults alike.  The easy to read, rhyming text is complemented by their joyous, imaginative and detailed illustrations that will have everyone up and dancing with Dumpy in no time.  Perfect for youngsters 3-8, Dumpy La Rue is a winner and a &quot;must have&quot; for all home libraries.	2001-06-10
1965537:US	52793250	R1XSA3GYJWWN92	0375812016	128782497	It's Simple, Said Simon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Simply Terrific Read-Aloud Story	Little Simon has many talents.  When asked, he can growl like a dog, stretch like a cat and jump like a horse, &quot;It's simple,&quot; says Simon.  But when he meets a wily old tiger who first, hands out the kudos to gain Simon's confidence and then tricks him into climbing onto his back, things start to look grim for our fearless hero.  Will Simon be able to outsmart the tiger and save himself.....?  Mary Ann Hoberman has written a delightful story that includes all the elements of a good fable, a brave hero, a dangerous animal villain and circumstances that offer a true battle of wits.  Her easy to read, amusing and gentle text, with repetitious refrain, will have youngsters involved and &quot;helping&quot; you read in no time.  Meilo So's imaginative and expressive watercolor artwork adds just the right touch and together this dynamic team have authored a picture book that's both perfect for beginning readers and a wonderful read-aloud story the whole family will enjoy.	2001-06-10
1970041:US	52793250	R32MARYTXL2NGU	0380817187	871115239	Dim Sum Dead: A Madeline Bean Culinary Mystery (Madeline Bean Mysteries (Paperback))	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Dim Sum Delightful	Madeline Bean is back and along with her partner, Wesley Wescott, planning a marvelous Chinese New Year party for the Sweet and Sour Mah Jongg Club.  It just so happens that earlier that very day, Wes found an antique Chinese mah jongg set in the old house he's renovating.  Along with the beautiful hand carved tiles, there's also a red leather-bound book of what he figures are game instructions, that belonged to the previous owner, the now deceased Hollywood movie legend, Dickey McBride, and his last wife, Quita, will be at the party tonight.  Wes has decided to give Quita the set, but before he can deliver it, it's stolen.  The game is found a few blocks away in a trash can, but the book is missing.  Later that evening, Quita is found dead from an apparent fall down the stairs.  The police chalk it up to an unfortunate accident probably caused by too much partying, but Madeline isn't so sure.  Her instincts tell her there's a lot more going on than meets the eye and she can't let it rest until she knows the whole truth..... Jerrilyn Farmer has written a light, witty whodunit that gives you a birds eye view of life in L.A., from the old Hollywood screen mavens to the hip nouveau riche.  Her writing is delicious, full of descriptive laugh out loud scenes and marvelous dialogue and her cast of quirky characters add to the fun.  This is a very well researched book and Ms Farmer's expertise in cooking and the kitchen, mah jongg, the ways of Hollywood and the Chinese New Year celebrations adds real credibility to the story.  And as the various plot lines wind their way through the story and eventually come together at the end, it all adds up to a great read with an unexpected climax and very satisfying conclusion.  Madeline Bean mysteries never disappoint, and they're not starting now.  Dim Sum Dead is a winner!	2001-06-06
1976519:US	52793250	R1VKVI23ZW7KU4	0670892483	640923071	Baloney (Henry P.)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	One Very Tall Tale.....	Little alien, Henry, is late to school again and his teacher Mrs Bugscuffle has had it.  This time he's getting permanent lifelong detention unless he has a really good and believable excuse as to why he's late.  So Henry launches into his story of how he lost his zimulis on the way to szkola and ended up on a razzo that blasted him to the planet Astrosus where he entertained the Astro guys with his piksas until they decided they should eat him....and so forth and so on until he escapes, hops back in his razzo and makes it to szkola just seven minutes late..... The dynamic duo, Jon Scieszka and Lane Smith have done it again, authored and illustrated an imaginative tall tale that will mesmerize youngsters with its hilarious premise, unique wordplay and detailed, busy, vivid artwork.  Though Henry's adventure takes place in a galaxy far away, kids will have no trouble identifying with a hero whose problems are remarkably similar to their own.  With an afterword and decoder (transmitted from deep space) at the end to help decipher the text, Baloney (Henry P.) is a charming and amusing story the entire family will enjoy.	2001-06-01
1976682:US	52793250	R1GPDMD9RX12XZ	0763613738	147930757	Clarice Bean, Guess Who's Babysitting?	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Rip Roarin' Fun!	When Clarice Bean's Uncle Ernie slips on a doughnut and breaks both his legs, her mother has to rush to New York and help him out.  Unfortunately her dad has to go away on important business and the only person they can find to babysit Clarice, her phone talking older sister, Marcie, her sun hating big brother Kurt, her accident prone little brother Minal and wandering Grandad is Uncle Ted.  Clarice is thrilled.  Uncle Ted is the best.  He's a firefighter who loves westerns, can lasso lamps or kids and has been known to break a few things in the past.  Mother leaves very strict instructions.  She wants her house in one piece when she gets back and all goes very well for the first two days.  But then Minal let's the school guinea pig, Albert, that they're taking care of over spring break, out of his cage and all heck breaks loose..... Lauren Child's sequel to Clarice Bean, That's Me will have both old fans and new readers jumping for joy and laughing out loud at the antics of this &quot;typical&quot; family.  Narrated by Clarice, this charming and hilarious story really captures the essence of the grade school mind as she tells everyone about the terrible chain of events that was set off when Albert got away.  Ms Child's delightful prose is almost outdone by her creative cartoon and collage artwork and even the text is artistic, changing fonts and size and wrapping itself in and around the illustrations.  Perfect for youngsters in grades 1-4, Clarice Bean, Guess Who's Babysitting is a rip roarin' good time the whole family will enjoy.	2001-06-01
1977768:US	52793250	R2TPREYFEM8SE1	0698118642	641611902	26 Fairmount Avenue (Newbery Honor Book, 2000)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	26 Fairmount Avenue...A Treasure	In 1938, Tomie dePaola is five years old and things are really beginning to happen.  His family is building a new house with two floors and will be moving out of the apartment he's lived in his whole life.  He'll be starting kindergarten, hopefully learning to read, and he just can't wait.  Walt Disney's Snow White is at the movies and everybody's excited about going to see it and that was the year the big hurricane struck Connecticut..... Told in the first person, Mr dePaola has written a wonderfully heartwarming, autobiographical story, full of humor, drama, suspense and just the day to day ups and downs of a little boy's life.  His easy to read text is written in a gentle conversational tone and fans of dePaola will recognize characters from his picture books, (Nana Upstairs, Nana Downstairs).  This continuity adds intimacy to the story and makes youngsters feel like a part of the family.  Perfect for readers 7-11, 26 Fairmount Avenue is also a terrific read aloud family book and the first of a new series that shouldn't be missed.	2001-05-31
1978162:US	52793250	R16KSMY38ESDVJ	037581115X	181818792	Gaspard on Vacation (Misadventures of Gaspard and Lisa)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Meet Gaspard...	Gaspard is a little black dog who loves to travel and can't wait to tell us all about his family vacation in Venice.  What did he do all day, every day...visit museums and more museums.  Just as the family was about to enter another museum, Gaspard sees a small red kayak and while his family's not looking, takes off in it.  He paddles all over Venice, having a great time and taking in the sights until he has a little boating accident.  The people is that big black gondola were sure wet and angry, so Gaspard quickly paddles on until it begins to get dark and he starts to get a little scared.  But never fear...the police find him in no time, his family is so relieved they aren't even mad and they all celebrate with the very best spaghetti in the world..... Ann Gutman has written a delightful story that really captures the essence of a small childs thoughts and actions and youngsters will easily identify with Gaspard has he takes off on his little adventure.  Her simple gentle text has just the right combination of humor and suspense, complete with happily ever after ending.  Georg Hallensleben's beautiful and lush artwork adds just the right touch and takes readers on a wonderfully scenic tour of Venice, as they read.  Like its companion book, Lisa's Airplane Trip, Gaspard on Vacation is perfect for preschoolers and beginning readers.	2001-05-31
1979443:US	52793250	R2WAT1FXG4YUU6	0140280510	783873969	Billy Dead	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Powerful and Disturbing Novel	Billy's dead.  He was so full of pure meaness, his brother Ray, the book's narrator, finds it amazing he wasn't killed sooner.  He was found lying in a ditch with his head brutally bashed in.  It hadn't been an easy death and the killer had watched him suffer as he crawled up North Lake Road towards Dewey's Tavern, finally finishing him off as he reached the bar's parking lot.  Though Ray can think of lots of folks who would want Billy dead, including members of his own family, the shock and relief of his death allows Ray to look back and focus on his own life, a life filled with violence, cruelty, abuse and incest and examine his passionate and forbidden relationship with his sister, Jean..... Lisa Reardon has written a very original and gut-wrenching novel that seductively drawns you into the lives of this dysfunctional and troubled family and never lets go.  Her characters are beautifully and painstakingly drawn and as each layer of their lives is peeled away, come more and more alive on the page.  But the real strength of this book is Ms Reardon's eloquent writing and attention to detail.  Because of its disturbing nature, this is not an easy book to read and one you often want to put down.   But, Ms Reardon quiet, yet powerful prose is so compelling, it won't let you look away.  Told with great insight, Billy Dead is a riveting story, not for the faint of heart, and a stunning debut novel everyone will be talking about.	2001-05-30
1980521:US	52793250	R3JYQZLUTGY7XF	0399235833	884869232	On My Way (A 26 Fairmount Avenue Book)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another Slice of Tomie DePaola's Life.....	Tomie DePaola is back with the third book of his autobiographical series and this installment is just as warm and wonderful as his two previous books, 26 Fairmount Avenue and Here We All Are.  This story takes a look at life for a few months in 1940 and is highlighted by baby sister Maureen's frightening bout of pneumonia, Tomie's first dance recital, a family visit to the 1939 New York World's Fair and the thrill of finally entering first grade, learning to read and getting his first library card.  Told in a gentle conversational tone, On My Way lets youngsters go back in time and &quot;spy&quot; on the day to day ups and downs of the extended DePaolo family.  Life may have been somewhat different and simpler sixty years ago, but what kids will really come to realize and understand is how much life, today, is the same as it was then.  For Mr DePaolo, writing these, 26 Fairmount Avenue books is very much a labor of love and it shows on each and every inspired page.  Perfect reading for youngsters 7-11, and even better as a family read aloud book, On My Way is a treasure, told with great insight, wisdom, humor and love.	2001-05-29
1981419:US	52793250	R1DEIA74O3UUGR	0345428145	717221126	Murder One	Books	3	11	13	N	N	William Bernhardt's Back but Not at His Best...	Tulsa, Oklahoma criminal defense attorney, Ben Kincaid, is  fighting an uphill battle to keep his client, Keri Dalcanton, a nineteen year old kinky stripper, out of prison.  She's charged with the grisly murder and mutilation of her married lover, police detective Joe McNaughton, and even though Ben believes her to be innocent, all the circumstantial evidence points in her direction and he doesn't see much chance of winning this case.  That is until a technicality sets her free.  The police and D.A.'s office is outraged at what they consider this miscarriage of justice and promise they'll avenge McNaughton's death by other means, if necessary.  Ben is just thankful for the lucky legal break and that this media circus of a case is finally over.  Unfortunately, he couldn't be more wrong.  Within days, incrimminating evidence of the murder is found in Ben's office, Keri's technicality is thrown out and Ben, himself is facing charges for obstruction and murder one..... William Bernhardt has written a fast paced, legal thriller with an interesting premise, but he doesn't always deliver.  His plot needs to be tightened up and is more complicated at times, than intricate and compelling.  His characters could be better developed and fleshed out and there are so many, you need a scorecard to keep track of who's who and what's what.  But it's the implausible and contrived &quot;surprise&quot; ending I found most disappointing.  After 288 pages, you shouldn't have to suspend belief to finish the last 29 pages of the book.  Murder One is adequate beach reading with decent courtroom scenes, but Mr Bernhardt has written better books.	2001-05-28
1985115:US	52793250	RHVO9RYCXPXAK	0374351015	260646731	My Dad	Books	5	1	2	N	N	My Dad's the Greatest!	As a little boy tells us, &quot;He's all right, my dad!&quot;  Dressed in blue striped pajamas and an incredibly ugly brown checked bathrobe, Dad can do it all.  He can jump over the moon and walk a tightrope, wrestle with giants, win the father's race on sports day, easily and he's not afraid of anything, not even the Big Bad Wolf.  He eats like a horse, swims like a fish, is as wise as an owl, except when he tries to help and he's a great dancer and brilliant singer..... Anthony Browne's wonderfully uplifting picture book looks at Dad from the adoring eyes of a child and really tells it like it is.  His simple and charming text is only outdone by his humorous, expressive and clever artwork.  Always dressed in PJs and robe, Dad is depicted, among other things, as a fish when he swims, a horse when he eats and one of the three tenors when he sings.  Written for youngsters 3-7, My Dad also makes a perfect father's day gift that Dads will treasure.  As our little narrator tells us, &quot;I love my dad.  And you know what?  He loves me!  (And he always will.)	2001-05-25
1985174:US	52793250	R3GJBEM51HE147	0152022988	987197869	And the Dish Ran Away with the Spoon	Books	5	21	23	N	N	A Rip Roarin' Time!	Everybody knows the old familiar nursery rhyme...Hey diddle diddle/The cat and the fiddle/The cow jumped over the moon/The little dog laughed/To see such sport/And the dish ran away with the spoon...Only this time they didn't come back.  The cat, dog and cow are beside themselves.  What are we going to do without the dish and spoon?  Could this be the end of the rhyme?  So taking matters into their own hands they set off on an adventure to find their errant tableware.  First they literally meet a fork in the road, who saw the dish and the spoon go by.  He &quot;takes a stab&quot; at drawing a map to help the trio find their rhyme-mates, which sends them on a hilarious journey, following clues, meeting some helpful, some not so helpful and some downright dangerous characters, while trying to put their rhyme back together again..... Janet Stevens has written a very clever and witty story that will have both youngsters and adults smiling, giggling and finally laughing out loud.  Her text, told in hip kid-speak language is full of wordplay, jokes and puns and complemented by Susan Stevens Crummel's large, expressive, colorful illustrations.  Kids will really enjoy all the wonderful detail in each picture.  Together, they've authored a delightful and humorous book the entire family will enjoy.  Perfect for youngsters 5 and older, And the Dish Ran Away With the Spoon is a winner!	2001-05-25
1985650:US	52793250	R165LG3P86O52O	068984283X	129599413	Yay, You! : Moving Up and Moving On	Books	5	28	32	N	N	One Big Happy and Hearty Congratulations...	Sandra Boynton has truly outdone herself with her celebratory  Yay, You!  Told in rhyme and full of love and pride, this little gem of a book first congratulates, &quot;You did it!/You're done!/You made it!/You're through!&quot;, and then takes a joyful look at what's ahead, &quot;Oh, what a great moment!/Now what will you do?/There are so many choices./The world is immense./Take a good look around/and decide what makes sense.&quot;  Ms Boynton's uplifting message is light and fun and complemented by her familiar and charming, silly animal illustrations.  So put a smile on every graduate's face, celebrate their success and let them know that whether you're in a hurry to get started on the rest of your life, or need to stop awhile and smell the roses, &quot;Whatever you do,/whether near or so far,/I know you'll be great./You already are.	2001-05-25
1985858:US	52793250	RB1AT5EEI883F	0689826206	469306800	What Dads Can't Do	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Those Poor Helpless Dads	Douglas Wood and Doug Cushman have gotten together and authored a terrific book about Dads.  These poor creatures would be lost without their little ones to help them.  Dads can't cross streets without holding hands, they're always found right away in a game of hide and seek, but they can never find you and they can't comb their hair or shave by themselves.  Dads can't see you hiding your lima beans at dinner, can't read books by themselves and sometimes leave a night light on in your room because they're afraid of the dark...(they like to check under the bed and in the closet too).  There are just so many things Dad can't do..... Mr Wood really captures the essence of a pre-schooler in this delightful picture book.  His sweet and gentle text is complimented by Mr Cushman's expressive and detailed illustrations, as we watch father and son dinosaurs help each other through their day.  What Dads Can't Do makes a wonderful father's day gift and many a Dad will be charmed as he shares this book with his little dinosaur.  There is one thing Dads are really the best at...They never stop loving you!	2001-05-25
1988366:US	52793250	R2FBD9KBP0AUL5	0439095433	503702634	The Tale Of Tricky Fox	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Watch Out for Tricky Fox.....	Tricky Fox is tired of stealing and eating chickens.  It's just too easy and not all that fun anymore.  He decides what he really wants is a pig and tells his brother that he can trick any human into giving him one.  But, Brother Fox isn't so sure and takes the bet.  &quot;I'll eat my hat if you do!&quot; he tells his tricky brother and the games begin.  Carrying a sack and acting old and tired, Tricky Fox talks his way into three cottages, asking each little old lady homeowner to guard his sack while he sleeps.  He adds that they mustn't look inside and of course, as soon as he falls asleep, that's exactly what they each do.  The first night he puts a log in the sack and claims the next morning that his loaf of bread is gone.  His hostess, embarrassed that she took a peek, quickly gets him a loaf of her own bread and says nothing, even though she knows it was a log in the sack.  The next night he does the same thing with the bread, claiming the next morning that his chicken is missing, with the same results.  But on his final evening, he tries to trick a teacher (and everyone knows that teachers are smarter than most humans) and learns a big lesson the hard way..... Jim Aylesworth has taken this old folktale and given it new life.  His charming and amusing text is full of energy, rhythm and rhyme.  Barbara McClintock's wonderfully old fashioned, detailed illustrations add just the right touch and together, this dynamic duo have authored a story that pulls your youngsters into the story, captures their imaginations and includes them in all the fun.  Perfect for kids 4-8, The Tale of Tricky Fox is a winner!	2001-05-23
1988644:US	52793250	R2W1B1YTN3T265	0060283769	276094072	Two Little Trains	Books	5	12	13	N	N	For Train Lovers Everywhere...	&quot;Two little trains went down the track.  Two little trains went west.&quot;  So begins Margaret Wise Brown's story.  One train is new and streamlined, the other old and slow, as they both make their way west, across rivers and hills, through rain and snow..... Ms Brown's gentle text is quiet and soothing and takes on the rhythm and cadence of a moving train.  Her simple story is beautifully complimented by Leo and Diane Dillon's clever and detailed illustrations.  Each two page spread shows the new powerful train on the left page, traveling across the country and the old toy train on the right, traveling through the house on its own imaginary journey.  As the new train crosses a bridge over the river, the toy train chugs along the rim of the bathtub.  As the new train climbs a mountain, the toy train climbs the stair railing.  And, as the new train passes through a rain shower, water from the bathroom showerhead rains down on the old train...  Though written in 1949, the text and artwork are as innovative and inspiring today as they were over fifty years ago.  Perfect for pre-schoolers, Two Little Trains is sure to become a family favorite and like Ms Brown's classic, Goodnight Moon, a must read at bedtime.	2001-05-23
1989850:US	52793250	R1LHSSKYA09N6Q	0688179444	123264911	Ballerina!	Books	5	8	8	N	N	For Those Who Love to Dance...	Little Terry loves to dance and she practices everyday in front of the big mirror in her bedroom.  She dons different costumes and watches herself as she twirls, leaps, dips, flutters and floats, in a pink tutu, red leotard, blue gown or yellow turban...  And in the mirror, she watches a more mature and poised Terry dance..... Peter Sis has authored a simple, gentle story all budding ballerinas will love and want to imitate.  On the left hand page, little Terry practices her steps.  While on the right hand page, she watches herself as a more grown-up Terry dance, expertly.  His minimal text is delightfully combined with charming and expressive line drawings with just a little color in all the right places.  Perfect for pre-schoolers, Ballerina is a must have book for all those who love to dance.	2001-05-22
1990715:US	52793250	R2NBVO6B9I82K8	0451202635	68420116	Angel in Black (Nathan Heller Novels)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Nate Heller's Back and Better than Ever.....	It's 1947 and Chicago private detective, Nate Heller, is in Los Angeles for two very good reasons...he's honeymooning with his new wife, the lovely Peggy, and he's opening a branch office of his A-1 Detective Agency.  All is going perfectly until, while riding with a reporter friend from the Herald Examiner, they happen upon an incredibly grisly crime scene, a once beautiful young woman tortured, mutilated, murdered and left, cut in half, in a vacant lot.  Heller is shocked when he realizes he knew the woman.  Her name was Elizabeth Short and he had had a brief affair with her a couple of months ago while he and Peggy were on the outs.  To make matters worse, she had called him, just the night before, claiming she was pregnant from their little fling and needed money.  Afraid that he'll be at the top of the cops' suspect list if they find his connection to the murdered girl, Nate gets himself hired by the Examiner to investigate the crime for the paper and try to stay at least one step ahead of the police..... Max Allan Collins has blended fiction and fact and come up with a well researched, clever and entertaining historical mystery/thriller, based on the infamous and unsolved Black Dahlia murder.  His well paced, intricate plot is compelling and his scenes are vivid and riveting.  But it's Mr Collin's crisp, spare and often irreverent writing and superb dialogue that really makes this book stand out.  This is a story that transports you back to Hollywood in the forties, full of mobsters, movie stars, flamboyant women and tough talking, cigarette smoking, hard drinking guys with big hearts.  Angel in Black is an intense read and a novel that should be on every mystery/thriller fan's &quot;not to be missed&quot; list!	2001-05-21
1992513:US	52793250	R24ZZI1IVYUALL	0375811141	686029225	Lisa's Airplane Trip	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Fly with Lisa.....	Take a trip with Lisa, an adorable little white dog with expressive black eyes, who is traveling alone by airplane, from Paris to New York.  What an adventure!  Her seatmate, a nice lady in blue, can't take all the wiggling and squirming and pretty soon Lisa has the whole row of seats to herself, so she lies down and takes a nice nap.  Then a very nice airplane lady brings her a tray loaded with food, including a large orange juice with a cherry.  But before she can finish eating and drinking, an announcement tells her to put on headphones and watch the movie.  It's hard to see over the high seatbacks, so Lisa stands on her orange juice glass to watch.  Unfortunately, a catastrophe occurs when the glass falls over, but she gets lots of help from the airplane lady and a special trip to the cockpit to meet the pilot and see all the airplane controls.  Soon the plane lands and Lisa's uncle is waiting to show her all the sights of New York..... Ann Gutman and Georg Hallensleben have authored a simple, gentle story that really captures the essence of a little one on his/her first airplane trip.  Her engaging text is perfect for pre-schoolers and early readers and Ms Gutman's endearing star character is delightfully depicted in Mr Hallensleben's beautiful artwork.  Youngsters will love the vivid colors and humorous details.  Lisa's Airplane Trip is a winner and a story children will want to read again and again.	2001-05-20
1993115:US	52793250	R14MLFTGTBL8NQ	0152026088	46830429	Waiting for Wings (Rise and Shine)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Bold, Beautiful, Brilliant!	Lois Ehlert has authored a spectacular picture book that shows and tells the life cycle of the butterfly, from tiny eggs hidden in leaves to hatching caterpillars and cocoons to hungry butterflies in search of nectar in your flower gardens.  Told in a gentle rhyming pattern, her simple text is chock full of information and fun facts that is easily understood by children as young as three.  But the real strength of this book are Ms Ehlert's fabulous, vivid and brilliant illustrations that grow ever larger and more colorful with each page turn.  With additional information at the end of the book about different kinds of butterflies and their favorite flowers and even growing a butterfly garden of your own, Waiting for Wings is a visual and intellectual feast for inquisitive little minds and their eyes.	2001-05-19
1993204:US	52793250	R1RW6QA2BS3O19	0803725469	763722223	The Egg	Books	5	14	14	N	N	George and the Dragon	George knew something special was about to happen when he found a gigantic egg in his mother's henhouse.  He carefully took it back to his room, kept the egg warm and read to it until it hatched.  The dragon inside took one look at George and made a sound of happiness.  George didn't speak dragon, but he knew the sound meant, &quot;mommy&quot; and he was determined to teach the dragon dragony ways just like any good mother would.   They worked on flying and breathing fire, distressing damsels and defeating knights and every night George read his dragon bedtime stories from a book of dragon tales.  But soon, George realized that the dragon was sad and lonely and missed being with other dragons..... M P Robertson has written a gentle fantasy of love and friendship that will delight youngsters with it's simple text and beautifully expressive artwork.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, The Egg is a charming bedtime story, full of imagery and colorful detail, kids will want to read again and again and a wonderful addition to all home libraries.	2001-05-19
1996978:US	52793250	RSYKQU2G7TEQ5	0786803509	76798540	Freedom River (Coretta Scott King Illustrator Honor Books)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Powerful, Inspiring Story	Before the Civil War, Kentucky was a slave state.  But just 1000 feet across the Ohio River, Ohio was a free state.  John Parker, was as a conductor on the Underground Railroad and helped hundreds of slaves cross that river to freedom.  John was a unique individual, an ex-slave who learned to read and write and was able to buy his freedom and a successful Ohio businessman who employed both black and white workers.  But he never forgot his slave roots and the terrible pain of being separated from his mother and sold when he was eight years old.  Because of this, he risked and devoted his own life to helping slaves escape to safety in Ohio.  Freedom River tells the story of one of John Parker's trips to Kentucky to rescue a family of three..... Doreen Rappaport has written a powerful and inspiring story of the courage and determination of one man to right the wrongs of slavery.  Her eloquent text makes John Parker and this story come alive and is complimented by Bryan Collier's vivid illustrations that add a real sense of drama and urgency.  Perfect for children 8-12, Freedom River is a wonderful introduction to the Underground Railroad and includes historical notes to enhance the story and augment discussion.	2001-05-16
1998283:US	52793250	R1J1NE7R5EUQPZ	0689830165	702174799	Freedom Summer	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Wonderful!	Joe and John Henry are best friends.  They both love to play marbles, eat ice pops and swim in Fiddler's Creek.  And, when they grow up, they're both planning to be firemen.  But as Joe tells it there is one big difference between them... &quot;John Henry's skin is the color of browned butter&quot; and &quot;my skin is the color of the pale moths that dance around the porch light at night.&quot;  In the early 1960's, there are some things they just can't do together.  John Henry's not allowed to swim in the town pool or buy his ice pops at Mr Mason's General Store.  But all that is about to change.  In 1964, the Civil Rights Act becomes law and segregation has to end.  The town's swimming pool will be open to everyone, together and John Henry and his family will be able to shop at Mr Masons.  The boys are so excited they can hardly sleep and race to the town pool extra early so that they can be there when it opens.  But instead of cool blue water, they find workmen filling the pool with asphalt..... Deborah Wiles has written a gentle, yet powerful story of one small southern town's struggle with integration, as seen through the eyes of her white narrator, Joe.  Her beautiful, heart-felt text, combined with Jerome Lagarrigue's stunning artwork will pull your children into the story and let them become part of Joe and John Henry's experience.  Freedom Summer is a story of racism, friendship and the triumph of the human spirit, told with great insight and wisdom.  A story you won't soon forget.	2001-05-15
1999300:US	52793250	R1G429T1MIWDOO	0451202724	697095682	Murder of a Sweet Old Lady (Scumble River Mysteries, Book 2)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Fast, Fun Read	Scumble River, Illinois school psychologist, Skye Denison, knew something was wrong when she went to visit her grandmother after school, that day.  Several hawks were circling the farmhouse, something she'd never seen before.  The front door was locked, the declawed cat, Bingo, was outside and her grandmother's live-in nurses aid, Mrs Jankowski, had disappeared.  But the last thing she ever expected to find was Grandma Leofanti, dead, lying in bed with the sheet pulled up over her face.  Though strong as an ox, Grandma had been slowly losing her mind and Skye had taken advantage of these daily visits to talk with her about the past and learn the family's history.  Her relatives are more than willing to chalk up Grandma's unexpected death to natural causes, but Skye insists on an autopsy that concludes Grandma Leofanti was murdered.  Now as a very determined Skye tries to find out who would kill a &quot;sweet old lady&quot; and why, uncooperative relatives are stonewalling her efforts and long held secrets start popping up in everyone's backyard..... Murder of a Sweet Old Lady is a well paced, entertaining mystery full of twists, turns and surprises that will keep you turning pages to the end.  Ms Swanson's writing is crisp, her characters, engaging and her scenes, vivid and realistic.  Easily read in one sitting, this is perfect light summer reading, great for the beach or long car and plane rides.  For those new to Skye Denison and the Scumble River series, start at the beginning with Murder of a Small-Town Honey.  For those of you who are already fans, this second mystery doesn't disappoint.	2001-05-14
2002647:US	52793250	R33JKXMPQZS4BR	0786708255	947828733	Bad Lawyer	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Great Read!	Manhattan criminal defense attorney, Sid Kaplan, lost everything, his big law practice, money and fame when drugs and booze sent him from the pinnacle of his career to the very bottom of the barrel.  Now sober, he's spending his days plea bargaining and defending petty criminals.  What he wants is a chance to be on top again.  He needs a high profile, big media case to get him started and one walks in the door.  Pricilla Sweet is accused of killing her dope dealing husband.  She's claiming self defense, he beat and abused her for years.  The police say it was cold blooded murder, she was skimming profits and wanted the drug business and money for herself.  Sid realizes early on that Pricilla isn't telling him everything, some things don't add up and there are holes in her story.  But, it's the right case;  he knows he can win this one and it will be his ticket back to the top.  When drug dealers show up at his office demanding their &quot;stolen&quot; money, 150 large, the case takes on a whole new deadly dimension and winning may turn out to be the least of Sid's problems..... David Cray has written a suberb legal thriller that has it all...compelling, intricate plot, vivid, riveting scenes and terrific, original characters with strong voices.  His writing is spare and gritty and Mr Cray has a wonderful ear for dialogue.  With suspenseful twists and surprises and a stunning ending that will knock your socks off, Bad Lawyer is a novel that mystery/thriller fans shouldn't miss.	2001-05-11
2005694:US	52793250	R3B0TSFXOPB6S6	1563978903	571366510	This Is the Ocean	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Ocean of Information for the Very Young	Have you ever tried to explain the water cycle to little ones who ask where does the rain comes from?  Kersten Hamilton has taken this sometimes confusing subject and made it easy for youngsters to understand, taking them through the process step by step.  Her rhyming text, full of imagery and expressive detail, begins with the ocean and the bright sun that raises a mist to the sky and continues on to clouds and rain, explaining each step until the water from rivers and streams slips back into the ocean to begin the cycle all over again.  Lorianne Siomades bold, colorful illustrations are charming and add just the right touch.  Perfect for children 3-7, This is the Ocean is a fascinating and engaging picture book.	2001-05-09
2005945:US	52793250	R33626C8RPWQ7P	0802787576	56653509	Humpty Dumpty Egg-Splodes	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Nursery Rhymes Gone Wild.....	It's Read Across America Day and Mr Hatchery has come to school to read The Nursery Rhymes of Mother Goose to a class of fourth and fifth graders.  As he begins the story with Mary had a Little Lamb, the kids squirm and yawn and are bored to death.  That is, until Mary runs into Humpty Dumpty, who's grown very large and very angry.  It's not easy being tubby and bald and always falling off walls.  He's had enough of Mother Goose Land and he's not going to take it anymore.  Mother Goose is out of town on vacation, so it falls to Old King Cole to fix this situation before it's too late.  Unfortunately he's not too smart, just merry, but he calls in reinforcements, Peter Piper, The Muffin Man, Jack Be Nimble, to name just a few, from lots of nursery rhymes to help, while they wait for Mother Goose to get back and get control of her bad egg..... Kevin O'Malley has written a very clever and hilarious story, full of old familiar characters, that will charm and delight youngsters of all ages.  His text, full of wordplay, puns and silly jokes is only outdone by his marvelous, bold and expressive artwork.  Kids will be mesmerized as they watch the chaos grow with each page turn, as Humpty Dumpty gets angrier and wreaks havoc on all who cross his path.  Perfect for readers 7-10, or as a family read-aloud book, Humpty Dumpty Egg-Splodes is a wacky, laugh-out-loud romp that shouldn't be missed.	2001-05-09
2008200:US	52793250	RGN5L12UGWBP3	0688175708	723421159	Boy Still Missing	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Terrific Debut Novel	In 1971, fifteen year old Dominick Pindle, spends most Saturday nights driving around the blue collar town of Holedo, Massachusetts with his mother, trying to track down his dad, a notorious womanizer and weekend drunk.  He's always wondered about his sunny mother whose life seems full of secrets.  She's alluded to &quot;other lives&quot; in far off places like New Mexico and Dominick knows he has a half brother, Truman, in New York City, though he has never met him.  But on this Saturday night, Dominick meets and falls madly in lust with his father's pregnant ex-mistress, Edie and begins a sexual relationship.  Edie, eventually manipulates him into stealing money his mother has saved and hidden away and this sets off a horrific chain of events that not only ruins Dominick's family but destroys the one person he loves most..... John Searles stunning coming of age novel will grab you from page one, pull you into the story and won't let you go even after you've finished reading the last page.  His well paced, intricate and compelling plot is full of suspense, surprising twists and vivid, riveting scenes.  But the real strength of this novel is Mr Searle's powerful, eloquent writing and beautifully drawn characters that makes this story come alive on the page.  Boy Still Missing is a gripping story of love, loss, guilt and forgiveness, of growing up too fast and hard choices, told with great insight and wisdom;  a stunning debut that shouldn't be missed.	2001-05-07
2009439:US	52793250	RY7QZNJJVECMT	0689830777	295189599	Cats, Cats, Cats!	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fun, Fun, Fun!	Mrs. Brown loves her cats.  She loves the softness of their fur and the loudness of their purr.  She loves to comb their fluffy tails and manicure their nails.  She loves to fill her lap with them and sometimes, take a nap with them.  And all day long as her cats snooze away, Mrs Brown does all her household chores.  But, in the evening after she puts down their food and goes up to bed, Mrs Brown's cats party the night away, eating spaghetti and throwing confetti, dancing and chasing their tails, knitting and purling and whooping it up until the crack of dawn.  And then, as the new day begins, the cats begin their beauty sleep and Mrs Brown starts cleaning up their mess and putting her house back in order again..... Lesla Newman has written a charming and humorous picture book that will delight both youngsters and adults with its expressive rhyming text.  Her gentle story is only outdone by Erika Oller's wonderfully busy and detailed  watercolor artwork and kids will be mesmerized as they watch the many antics of Mrs Browns very talented felines.  Perfect for children 3-7, Cats, Cats, Cats makes a terrific gift and is sure to make a cat lover out of everyone!	2001-05-05
2009690:US	52793250	RXJ816OX25979	0689824602	98729298	Beatrice's Goat	Books	5	49	49	N	N	An Eloquent, Uplifting Story	Beatrice lives in the village of Kisinga, Uganda with her mother and five younger brothers and sisters.  Life is hard and the family is very poor.  Beatrice dreams of going to school, but knows that the family probably will never have the money for books and a uniform, so that she can attend.  And then one day everything changes; the family receives a goat.  Beatrice names the goat Mugisa, which means lucky because her mother said the goat was their lucky gift.  Soon the goat gives birth to two kids and the family's life begins to change.  They have milk to drink and some to sell and in time, they are able to sell one of the kids to improve their lives even more.  They build a new sturdy hut with a steel roof that won't leak and are even able to make Beatrice's dream of going to school come true..... Based on the true story of how one family was helped by Heifer Project International, an organization that donates livestock to poor communities, Page McBrier's beautiful and engaging picture book shows how different life can be in other parts of the world and how little it takes to bring hope and changes to developing countries.  Her eloquent text is complimented by Lori Lohstoeter's rich and expressive illustrations and together, in a very simple, gentle way, they show youngsters how something, even as small as a goat, can lift a family out of desperate poverty and give them a better life.  Perfect for children 4-8, Beatrice's Goat is an uplifting story told with great insight and a wonderful addition to all home bookshelves.	2001-05-05
2012012:US	52793250	RN96YWAAF1QEC	0399147365	873881745	Cold Paradise (Stone Barrington)	Books	1	10	13	N	N	Stuart Woods at his Worst...	Stone Barrington, that sexy hunk of a cop turned lawyer finds himself an interesting assignment when Thad Shames, a young, exorbitantly rich software mogul hires him to locate a young woman he met at a party.  All Thad can tell Stone is that she's thirtyish, brunette, of medium height with blue eyes and her first name might be Liz.  And, he has a feeling that she might be in Palm Beach, where, of course, Thad has a palace of a home and a  yacht.  But never fear, Stone takes the corporate jet, and by page fifty has found this elusive damsel, who by coincidence he knows very well from a previous novel, Dead in the Water.  Mr Woods now has 275 pages to fill and he does this by chronicling the very vacuous and decadent lives of Stone and company.  We get to see them all eat beluga caviar and drink Krug champagne, loll around on the yacht, drinking and snacking,  shop for expensive, custom made clothes and jewelry, drive expensive cars to golf outings and go to elegant, black tie dinner parties with the other rich and famous.  And, of course the book is full of beautiful, desirable women, all fighting over Stone, so his sex life is never lacking.  Cold Paradise is a novel with absolutely no substance or merit.  The plot is thin, really almost nonexistent and predictable, the writing poor and uninspired and the characters, many back from previous Stone Barrington adventures, one-dimensional caricatures.  It's nearly impossible to connect with and care about these people and what is happening to them.  Stuart Woods wrote many good thrillers earlier in his career, Chiefs and Palindrome being among his best.  But not now.  Do yourself a big favor and skip Cold Paradise.  It's definitely one of this year's worst!	2001-05-03
2016090:US	52793250	R26X3E4I8IPWNJ	0811826600	86584304	Ook the Book: And Other Silly Rhymes	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Tons of Fun	Lissa Rovetch has taken some of the fundamental phonics sounds, in reading and authored a marvelous collection of simple, silly, tongue twisting poems that's perfect for pre-schoolers and beginning readers.  Meet AKE the snake who can bake a cake,  UG the bug and his friend Glug the slug, ING the thing who brings string to the king or ID the kid who hid a squid, to name just a few.  Shannon McNeill's colorful, expressive and detailed illustrations, showing these zany characters in funny and engaging situations, will have youngsters laughing out loud.  With its easy, repetitive style and wonderful artwork, little ones will be &quot;reading&quot; right along with you, in no time.  Perfect for youngsters 3-7, Ook The Book is a winner that will charm and delight everyone in the family.	2001-04-30
2016273:US	52793250	R1OCBEGBK91G2O	0679453059	301550959	Death Benefits: A Novel	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Great Read!	When Ellen Snyder, assistant manager at the Pasadena branch office of McLaren Life and Casualty, pays out a 12 million dollar death benefit to an imposter and then disappears, company red flags go up all over and security consultant, Max Stillman, is called in to clean up the mess.  Grabbing data analyst, John Walker, from McLaren's San Fransisco headquarters to assist him, because he knew Ellen intimately, the two set off across the country, tracking Ellen and the money.  Stillman's convinced she's guilty of insurance fraud.  Walker is sure she's innocent and sticks with Stillman and the case to protect and defend her.  But what these two find, at the end of the road, shocks and surprises even Max Stillman, and he's seen it all..... Thomas Perry has written a well-paced, page turner that pulls you into the story from page one and takes you on a roller coaster ride full of plot twists and turns, suspense and thrills that don't let up until the last page of the book.  His writing is sharp and spare with great, down to earth, witty dialogue and his cast of well drawn characters are original and engaging.  With action packed, riveting scenes and a superb, compelling story line, Death Benefits is an entertaining novel that's hard to put down!	2001-04-30
2017271:US	52793250	R3OZKQACQ35KMF	006028465X	652633378	Good Thing You're Not an Octopus!	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Charming and Engaging	As the first page of this delightful new picture book states:  &quot;You don't like to get dressed in the morning?  It's a good thing you're not an octopus.  If you were an octopus you'd have eight legs to put in your pants.&quot;  Julie Markes has taken some of those time consuming tasks, little ones are learning to do and written a wise and humorous book that will make them glad they're humans.  Imagine if you were a caterpillar with sixteen feet and had to put on your shoes everyday, or a shark with 200 teeth to brush before bed.  And, for those who hate naps, it's a good thing you're not a bear who has to take a really long nap, for the entire winter.  With her easy to read, repetitive text and Maggie Smith's colorful, detailed and expressive artwork, children will be able to &quot;help&quot; you read this engaging book in no time.  Good Thing You're Not an Octopus makes a wonderful addition to all home libraries and is a story pre-schoolers will want to read and share again and again.	2001-04-29
2019171:US	52793250	R36VWK58B498KD	0316781142	704361388	The Last Time They Met: A Novel	Books	3	18	22	N	N	A Story of Love, Loss and Mystery...	Poet, Linda Fallon is in Toronto to give a reading of her works at a literary festival.  There, she once again meets, Thomas Janes, tormented poet, literary legend and the great love of her life.  This unrivaled passion has spanned thirty-five years, from their high-school romance at seventeen, to their chance meeting in Africa ten years later.  And though they last met twenty-seven years ago, the emotional connection and memories have always been there, close to the surface..... Anita Shreve's latest novel, The Last Time They Met, is an intense and eloquently written story full of atmosphere and vivid scenes.    Though very compelling at times, this novel tends toward melodrama and at times appears more like a movie of the week than good literature.  But my biggest criticism is the unconvincing and contrived ending.  After 312 pages detailing and exploring Linda and Thomas' choices...their great love, losses, tragedies and timing, Ms Shreve wraps up her novel with an unworthy, gimmicky ending that leaves the reader feeling cheated and looking for answers.  The Last Time They Met is not Anita Shreve at her best.	2001-04-27
2021226:US	52793250	R28PS8WMGBMY97	0739830732	610111538	Let It Shine: Stories of Black Women Freedom Fighters	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Ten Inspirational Women...	What do Rosa Parks, Mary McLeod Bethune and Shirley Chisholm all have in common?  They're three of the ten extraordinary African American freedom fighters in Andrea Davis Pinkney's marvelous collection, Let It Shine.  These are strong women who didn't just sit back and accept the status quo, but met challenges head on and took action to change the world and make it a better place.  These ten dynamic women were never silent, even when they thought no one was listening, faced discrimination, inequality and racism, triumphed in their battles against oppression and for civil rights and inspired those who followed in their footsteps.  Told in easy to read, conversational style, each chapter is rich in both anecdotal and historical detail and accompanied by Stephen Alcorn's beautiful and bold oil painting illustrations.  Perfect for youngsters 10 and older, Let It Shine also makes a wonderful read-aloud book the entire family can share and enjoy.	2001-04-25
2021707:US	52793250	R3HQYRS9G6F7SF	0688137830	624795406	Master Man: A Tall Tale of Nigeria	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Masterful, Well Told Tale	Foolish Shadusa thinks he's the strongest man in the world and orders his wife to call him &quot;master man&quot;.  But his wise wife warns him:  &quot;Quit your foolish boasting.  No matter how strong your are, there will always be someone stronger.  And watch out, or someday you may meet him.&quot;  But Shadusa doesn't listen and when he hears that another man in a nearby village also calls himself &quot;master man&quot;, he sets off to confront this imposter and ends up learning his lesson the hard way..... Aaron Shepard and award winning illustrator, David Wisniewski have authored an inspired and creative version of this old Nigerian folktale.  The story, told in comic book format, complete with dialogue bubbles, is full of expressive, action packed scenes and colorful, detailed collage artwork that becomes busier and bolder until it almost spills off the pages.  The book includes an author's note at the end and youngsters will enjoy learning about the origins and history of this folktale.  Perfect for children 4-8, Master Man is a terrific read-aloud story the whole family can share and will make a wonderful addition to all home libraries.	2001-04-25
2024329:US	52793250	R2S0HD11NQZU2Q	1929766009	303754455	Casey at the Bat: A Ballad of the Republic Sung in the Year 1888 (Caldecott Honor Book)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Magnificent Presentation	Christopher Bing has taken Ernest L Thayer's poem, Casey at the Bat, and presented it in a most creative and ingenious format, as a hundred year old scrapbook.  The poem itself is almost secondary to his amazing and inspired artwork that includes newpaper articles and advertisements from the Mudville Sunday Monitor, period baseball cards, game tickets, money and other memorabilia, that gives readers a marvelous view of the baseball world in the late 1880s.  This is a book to savor and both youngsters and adults will find themselves mesmerized by the rich authenticity and historical detail as they find something new and exciting to read and explore each time they open the book.  Casey at the Bat is a wonderful read aloud story younger children will enjoy.  But it will have much greater meaning for baseball fans 10 and older, who will revel in the enormous amount of information and fun facts that Mr Bing presents.  As a gift or addition to your own home library, you just can't go wrong with this book!	2001-04-23
2024481:US	52793250	R25YDY7ANWB7DX	0743206029	362049018	On the Street Where You Live: A Novel	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Mary Higgins Clark Does it Again...	Talented criminal defense attorney, Emily Graham, is starting over.  She's had to deal with a messy divorce from her greedy and adulterous husband and has been terrorized by a stalker for over a year.  But now, all that is finally behind her and she's leaving Albany, New York for a great job with a presitigious law firm in Manhanttan and has bought her ancestral home in the beautiful seaside community of Spring Lake.  On the day she moves in, a contractor, excavating her new backyard for a pool, finds the skeleton of Martha Lawrence, a young woman who went missing over four years ago.  In her hand is a finger, complete with sapphire ring, of Emily's great great grandaunt, Madeline Shapley, who disappeared without a trace, from Spring Lake over 100 years ago.  Now as Emily begins to investigate this double crime, that's landed literally in her backyard, she finds out that two other young women also disappeared in the early 1890s.  She is even more shocked to discover that over the last five years the 1890's crimes seem to be repeating themselves as two young women have disappeared again, without a trace and the anniversary of the third is less than a week away.  Is it a coincidence or is there a serial killer loose in Spring Lake, with a link to the past.....?  Mary Higgins Clark has written a fast paced, intricately plotted page turner that's about to keep you up reading, all night.  Her crisp, suspenseful writing is full of clever twists, turns and vivid, riveting scenes that will keep you off balance and guessing to the end.  The only weakness to this book is its over-abundance of characters that become distracting and take away from the compelling story line and you'll need a score card, at times, to keep them all straight.  Perfect for the beach or a long plane ride, On the Street Where You Live is a very satisfying read with a surprise ending that will knock your socks off.  Mary Higgins Clark is one of the best in the mystery/suspense business and you really can't go wrong with this book.	2001-04-23
2025635:US	52793250	R2J52VLEU44SG6	0060280107	125322045	Timothy Tunny Swallowed a Bunny	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Laugh-Out-Loud Fun	Bill Grossman has written a rip roarin' collection of funny, silly rhyming poems that will delight and amuse youngsters of all ages.  From the woman in town who's afraid that she'll drown... and Bill Hackbar who worked in the snack bar..., to Old Ned, who walks around with a horse on his head..., these poems are full of great, unrivaled characters and hilarious situations that will charm both children and adults.  His marvelously witty text is captured in Kevin Hawkes vivid, colorful and very expressive artwork and together they've authored a wonderful read aloud book of poems the whole family can share.  So find out what happened when Timothy Tunny swallowed a bunny... and enjoy!	2001-04-21
2025965:US	52793250	R23CLIXVWPHJE1	1890817120	550733106	The Feet in the Gym	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Handy Bob Finally gets some Help...	Handy Bob, custodian at Lakeside school, works hard to keep his school spotless.  He washes walls, dusts dim lightbulbs and shines doorknobs.  But his hardest job, by far, is keeping the gym floor clean.  No matter how often he mops and swabs the dirty footprints away, kids just keep tracking more grime and goo through the gym.  From the kindergartners who shuffle by and the brownies who leave cookie crumbs behind, to Mrs Milton's dancing class and the art students dripping paint, Handy Bob's job is never done.  And, just as he reaches his wit's end, the marching band troops through and ingeniously saves the day..... Teri Daniels has written a delightful and amusing story that will charm all youngsters 3-8.  Her witty text, told in rhyme that children can help &quot;read&quot; and easily follow,  is beautifully complimented by Travis Foster's bold, bright and expressive illustrations and kids will love watching the chaos unfold as Handy Bob tries to stay ahead of the ever-mounting mess on the gym floor.  Complete with humorous ending that will have kids laughing out loud, The Feet in the Gym is a winner and makes a nice addition to all home bookshelves.	2001-04-21
2029161:US	52793250	R17ZC99R8HR35O	0425178234	962004102	Ladies with Options	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Watch Out for the Larksdale Ladies	In 1983, it came to the attention of the Mostly Methodist Club, a group of eight mostly middle-aged, married Larksdale, Minnesota women that it was time to take charge of their lives.  Between pensions, social security and meager savings, these ladies were looking at a pretty miserable retirement and old age.  So with a little research and self teaching, they organized themselves into the Larksdale Ladies Independence Club (LLIC), put up $1500 each and carefully and cautiously began investing.  But, when their youngest member, Skye, befriends a computer geek who tells her all about this amazing Seattle software company that is going to revolutionize the whole industry, they decide to buy Microsoft on opening day and the rest, as they say, is history.  By 1986, the LLIC had over 1 million in their account and things were really beginning to take off for everyone..... Cynthia Hartwick has written a delightful and entertaining novel that pulls you into the story from page one and doesn't let you go until the very satisfying end of the novel.  Her fast paced plot is full of great, witty writing and vivid scenes.  But it's her strong, endearing and unique characters that make this novel stand out and you'll find yourself rooting for these mid-western ladies to the end as they take control of not just their financial lives, but their entire lives and make all their dreams come true.  Told with insight, wisdom and laugh-out-loud humor, Ladies With Options is a winner.	2001-04-18
2032245:US	52793250	R3UMWXG4CS0FCW	0786865717	710576433	Hearse of a Different Color	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Murder and Mayhem in Baltimore	Hitchcock Sewell, tall, dark and handsome mortician has got problems.  It's December and an unexpected cold snap has hit Baltimore.  There's ice, snow and worse, a dead body dumped on the steps of Sewell and Sons Family Funeral Home.  She's young, blond, shot twice in the chest and her waitress name tag says, Helen.  Hitch's TV meteorologist girlfriend, Bonnie says it's fate that this murder landed on his doorstep and he has to help her investigate and solve the crime.  This could finally be her big break from weather girl to hard news reporter.  One look into those big baby blues and Hitch is sold.  But as the body count begins to rise, this rather inept detective duo find they're in way over their heads with have too many suspects, too many unanswered questions and a nasty killer who just might be after them next..... Tim Cockey's Hearse of a Different Color is a fast paced, well plotted page turner that will have you laughing out loud and rooting for the good guys as they hit dead ends, come to wrong conclusions and miss vital clues before finally stumbling over the truth.  This entertaining mystery has it all...crisp, witty writing, great dialogue, vivid scenes and a quirky cast of unique characters.   This is the second book of a funny and light-hearted series.  For those new to Hitch and company, start with the first, The Hearse You Came in On.  For those who are already fans, you won't be disappointed.	2001-04-16
2032628:US	52793250	RR369BXHG3NIK	0803723032	874874825	You Can't Take a Balloon into the National Gallery	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An Amazing Adventure in D. C.	Grandma is taking a little girl and her brother to the National Gallery of Art.  As they walk in, the little girl hands her balloon to a nice photographer to hold for her, since balloons are not allowed inside.  But as the three begin their tour of the gallery, the balloon comes loose and sails away..... You Can't Take a Balloon Into the National Gallery is a creative and inventive picture book that will entrance and mesmerize youngsters of all ages with its busy, expressive artwork, great attention to detail and famous Americans hidden in the pictures.  The Preiss sister's marvelous and clever pen and ink illustrations, with bright color used only to highlight the chaos of the balloon's trip, parallels the tour inside the gallery, as life imitates art and art imitates life.  This book includes a wonderfully detailed map of the balloon's route through D.C. and an answer key full of fun facts and historical notes for their hidden faces, at the end.  It's impossible to open this book without finding something new and exciting that you've never seen before.  For hours of fun, You Can't Take a Balloon Into the National Gallery is an adventure that will delight and amuse everyone in the family.	2001-04-16
2034591:US	52793250	R1H899EF4X1P5O	0684855526	455946528	Flight	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Flight is Fabulous!	Ten years ago, as Trent Randolph and his two children returned from a weekend sail to Catalina Island, they were ambushed by an unknown assailant who murdered father and daughter and left Randolph's son, Seth, barely clinging to life.  Las Piernas Police Detective, Phillip Lefebvre, a loner with a real talent for clearing the toughest cases, is assigned the investigation.  All evidence points to Whitey Dane, a small time mobster the department's been trying to put away for years.  But as Lefebvre works the case, things just don't add up right and he begins to think that maybe Dane is being framed and the murderer is a little closer to home.  When their only witness, Seth, is murdered in his hospital bed and Lefebvre disappears along with all the evidence, the police decide it's the old story of a cop gone bad, and close the case.  Now, ten years later, a plane crash site is found in the mountains outside Las Piernas with the remains of Phillip Lefebvre inside the cockpit.  These long cold cases are being reopened and Detective Frank Harriman is handling the new investigations.  The rest of the police department isn't happy with Harriman's tenacity to actually solve these old cases.  Lefebvre was a black eye on the department and Frank's co-workers are outraged when he begins to uncover new evidence that both Lefebvre and Dane were framed and the real killer might still be out there..... Jan Burke is back and better than ever with her latest intricately plotted suspense thriller, Flight.  This time out Burke spreads her wings a little as newspaper reporter/detective, Irene Kelly, takes a supporting role and her husband, Frank Harriman gets center stage.  This is an intense, dark, compelling mystery, with great, vivid writing, crisp, smart dialogue and riveting scenes that will put you on the edge of your seat and leave you there to the last page.  So turn off the phone and lock the door, Flight is about to keep you up all night!	2001-04-14
2042212:US	52793250	R1KTMAXMPEMD10	015202591X	923441789	lizards, frogs, and polliwogs	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Poems You Don't Want to Miss!	Douglas Florian is back with another marvelous collection of 21 poems that will charm and amuse the entire family.  This time out, he tackles the world of reptiles and amphibians, from those noisy spring peepers to the transparent glass frog to the wall walking gecko.  His clever poetry, full of wordplay, puns and even visual fun, is complimented by his creative and inventive artwork, that will mesmerize readers with its wit, color and detail.  For all who loved Mr Florian's past collections of Mammalabilia and Insectlopedia, Lizards, Frogs, and Polliwogs is a terrific book you shouldn't miss.	2001-04-07
2044103:US	52793250	RI22ZVUHE7AE0	068983358X	855050287	What Moms Can't Do	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Those Poor Helpless Moms!	Douglas Wood really captures the pre-school mind as he takes a long look at all the little things Mom can't do.  She can't push a grocery cart fast enough.  She never knows how to pick out the right clothes.  She eats all the wrong things for breakfast, like coffee and yogurt and bran flakes instead of Yummos with purple marshmallows.  She always has trouble saying good-bye and she can't let go of a hug without a kiss or two or five.  Poor Mom, she's helpless.  It's a good thing she has her little one to look after her..... Told from the child's perspective, What Moms Can't Do is a creative and inventive story all pre-schoolers will love.  Mr Wood's simple, gentle and witty text are beautifully complimented by Doug Cushman's colorful and expressive artwork featuring a mother and little dinosaur.  Fortunately, that little dinosaur has found one thing that Moms do better than anyone else...they love you!	2001-04-05
2044493:US	52793250	R2QC52K6XNTVGJ	043920500X	380593225	Beware Of The Storybook Wolves	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Fun with Fairy Tales	There's nothing little Herb likes more than hearing his mom read his favorite bedtime story.  You know, the one with the little girl in red and that horrible, slobbering, hairy wolf.  And each night after she's finished reading, Herb makes sure she takes the book with her when she leaves his room.  Mom thinks storybook wolves are harmless.  Herb's not so sure and he's not going to take any chances.  Sure enough, one night just as she's finished reading, the phone rings and his mother leaves the book lying open, turns out the light and runs to answer it.  The next thing Herb sees is a couple of really nasty, hungry, drooling wolves that think he would make a good meal.  But Herb's thinking fast, opening other story books and shaking out a few characters who might be able to help him outwit these two ugly carnivores..... Lauren Child has done it again as she captures the very real fears and runaway imaginations of the young mind.  Her witty, silly text is only outdone by her marvelous and creative collage illustrations and youngsters will enjoy all the bright and busy details.  With a surprise ending will have both kids and grown-ups laughing out loud, Beware the Storybook Wolves is perfect for youngsters 4-8 and is sure to amuse and delight everyone in the family.	2001-04-05
2045402:US	52793250	R2UH0PSPMDA5O2	0060294175	423855746	Max, the Stubborn Little Wolf	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Max is a Winner!	Poor Papa Wolf!  He just doesn't know what he's going to do about his son Max.  Wolves are hunters...everyone knows that, even Max.  But he doesn't care.  He finds hunting mean and horrible.  Max is a secure little wolf who knows his own mind and he's not going to be a hunter just because his Papa and all the other wolves hunt.  When he grows up he's going to be a florist.  He loves flowers.  He loves the way they look and smell.  He loves taking care of them. And nothing, not even his father's tricks, plans and bright ideas are going to shake his determination..... Marie-Odile Judes has written a terrific picture book, with a subtle message, that will have both kids and adults laughing out loud.  Her easy to read and witty text is complimented by Martine Bourre's bright, expressive and detailed artwork and together they've authored a special story about knowing yourself and what will make you happy.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Max the Stubborn Little Wolf will amuse and delight your whole family.	2001-04-04
2045668:US	52793250	R224CEGVNZKVN3	068817017X	698072984	Remember the Ladies: 100 Great American Women	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Winner!	Did you know that Virginia Dare was the very first English person born in America, that Phillis Wheatly was the first African American poet to be published or that Frances Perkins was the first woman to serve in the president's cabinet?  Meet 100 fascinating American women who helped change the world.  From familiar names like Pocahontas, Eleanor Roosevelt and Toni Morrison to more obscure women like Belle Boyd, Maya Ying and Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, this book tells the stories of women who made a difference, pushed boundaries and never accepted the work no.  Cheryl Harness has written an inspired and insightful collection about 100 of these women who's talents helped change and impact the world around them.  Her witty text, full of interesting and fun facts is enhanced by vivid watercolor artwork.  With additional information about the times these women lived and resources at the end:  a glossary, bibliography, pictorial time line and historical sites, this introductory book is sure to whet youngsters' appetites and have them wanting more.  This wonderful collection is perfect for youngsters 9-12.  As Abigail Adams wrote to her husband, future president, John Adams, on the founding of our goverment...&quot;Remember the Ladies...&quot;	2001-04-04
2047822:US	52793250	R2TQDG9RBT8NF0	0689829418	502002526	Super-Completely and Totally the Messiest	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Sophie is Wonderful	Sophie is super-completely and totally the messiest girl that ever lived!  That assessment, by Olivia, her perfectly neat big sister, just about says it all.  And no matter where she is or what she's doing, be it school or parties, the beach, the farm, the circus or even the bathtub, she's a whirlwind of activity and impending disasters.  But, as Olivia also tells us, she's kind and very nice, smart, funny and great at puzzles and dancing.  She's one of a kind and her family loves her, just for being herself.  Judith Viorst really captures the essence of an ever inquistive and busy  youngster with places to go, people to see and things to do.  Her wonderful hip text, told exasperatingly by older sister and neatnik, Olivia is only outdone by Robin Preiss Glasser's busy and detailed pen and ink line drawings with only Sophie and her mess highlighted in bright colors.  Together, they've authored a picture book that will amuse and delight everyone in the family.  Perfect for youngsters 5-9, Super-Completely and Totally the Messiest is a winner!	2001-04-02
2048120:US	52793250	R1QHC1B5P7AVT7	0763601446	441376265	Chameleons Are Cool: Read and Wonder	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Did You Know.....	Did you know that there are around 120 different kinds of chameleons, that their eyes move separately and their very long tongues have a sticky tip at the end?  Did you know that chameleons are lizards, that some are the size of small cats and that they change colors when they're angry or too hot or cold or sick...but not to match their surroundings?  Martin Jenkins loves chameleons and his enthusiasm is infectious.  He's authored a marvelous book full of fun and interesting facts that's perfect for all young nature lovers.  His enjoyable, conversational text is complimented by Sue Shields colorful, expressive artwork, that will mesmerize youngsters with its close-up attention to detail.  Written for kids 5-9, Chameleons are Cool is a winner!	2001-04-01
2048184:US	52793250	R25G1AZOPQZ5JH	0374339058	204526932	The Journey	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wonderful.....	&quot;Dear Diary, The luckiest girl on this good earth is writing to you tonight...&quot; So begins The Journey, Sarah Stewart's lovely story of Hannah, an Amish girl on her first trip to Chicago.  Each night, before she falls asleep, Hannah writes about her day and marvels at all the wonders of the big city, the fancy department store with it's frilly dresses, the aquarium and public library, the enormous cathedral with its loud choir, the cars and hundreds of people rushing here and there... And each makes her remember and appreciate something from her simple life at home, trying on a homespun dress, fishing in the pond, praying silently in the small wooden church, quilting with the ladies from other farms... David Small's expressive and detailed artwork take readers from the busy, brightly colored streets of Chicago, to the quiet, softer and subdued life of Hannah's Amish farm.  Together, this award winning duo of Stewart and Small have authored a gentle, understated picture book, perfect for youngsters 6-10, that is sure to become a treasured classic in the years ahead.	2001-04-01
2050371:US	52793250	R37XLIDIZRX43R	0609804138	849376137	The Sweet Potato Queens' Book of Love: A Fallen Southern Belle's Look at Love, Life, Men, Marriage, and Being Prepared	Books	5	19	19	N	N	The Sweet Potato Queens, Rule!	The Sweet Potato Queens...they're southern, sassy, a bit naughty, opinionated, always prepared and they know everything...just ask them.  Jill Connor Browne, first queen and Boss of Everything, is gracious enough to not only let us into their world, but also to offer sage advice to all who want to be worshipped and adored.  Where else would you find chapters titled:  &quot;The True Magic Words Guaranteed to Get Any Man to Do Your Bidding&quot;, &quot;What to Eat When Tragedy Strikes, or Just for Entertainment&quot; or 'Men Who May Need Killing, Quite Frankly?&quot;  Her writing is hilarious, witty and irreverent and her scenes vivid and laugh-out-loud funny, as you learn the ins and outs of life, love, men and most importantly always being particular.  This is a book full of southern insight, wisdom and humor, to read and share and read again.  For all not lucky enough to be born in the south, The Sweet Potato Queens' Book of Love will help get us started down the road to true Queendom.  Read, learn and enjoy!	2001-03-30
2051442:US	52793250	R2DABH6CAB7XYD	0060275774	830642946	Abe Lincoln Remembers	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Remembering Lincoln	It is April, 1865, the Civil War has just ended and Abe Lincoln is sitting in the White House waiting for his wife, Mary, to finish dressing.  This is a happy night and the Lincoln's are going to Ford's Theater to see a play.  As Lincoln patiently waits, he thinks back over his life, his simple upbringing and how he made his way to the presidency...from the small log cabin in Kentucky with only one window, to his love of learning and going to law school, to entering politics and finally becoming president, to believing in one country, whole, not half slave, half free..... Ann Warren Turner's eloquently written &quot;fictional biography&quot; and Wendell Minor's beautifully expressive and detailed artwork combine to capture your youngster's imagination with poignant, quiet emotion and moving, understated text.  Historical notes at the end fill in the rest of the story, including Lincoln's assassination and can be used to augment lessons and enhance discussions.  Abe Lincoln Remembers is a beautifully written, thoughtful story, perfect for youngsters 5-9 and makes a wonderful addition to all home libraries.	2001-03-29
2051853:US	52793250	RY87G5YIYT1IZ	0743400828	415925706	Girl Talk	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Wonderful Debut Novel	In the summer of 1985, when Lissy Jablonski was fifteen years old, her father, a quiet, unassuming gynechologist with a wooden leg left town and ran off with a redheaded bank teller.  So her mother decided they should pack up the car and head out of Keene, New Hampshire on an adventure of their own.  This was the summer of &quot;girl talks&quot;, the summer her mother let down her guard and began to tell Lissy the secrets and truths of her life.  Now fifteen years later, Lissy is facing a crisis of her own, the death of her father, an unwanted pregnancy and the end of her affair with a married lover.  Now as she looks back at her life, she realizes that so much of who she is and the decisions she makes, began that fifteenth summer..... Julianna Bagott has written a spectacular first novel about women, their lives, loves, relationships and choices that grabs you from page one and keeps you turning pages to the end.  Her eloquent writing is crisp and spare and full of witty and irreverent dialogue and humor and her scenes are vivid and riveting.  But it's her beautifully well drawn, true to life characters that really make this novel special.  Girl Talk is a story of love, loss, betrayal and forgiveness told with great insight and wisdom;  a complicated story about life and the human condition that everyone will be able to identify with.	2001-03-29
2051935:US	52793250	R3JH6KLMT17UV4	0590489135	657233286	Ackamarackus	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fantastic Fables, Fun For Everyone.....	What could be better than six original modern fables by Julius Lester?  Not much!  His stories, about unusual, quirky creatures in absurd situations are full of witty and imaginative alliteration, wordplay and puns, from the Bee who lost his buzz and is now a Been, to the alligator who can't stand the heat in Florida and finds a better life with a bear in Vermont, to poor Ellen the Eagle who's afraid of heights and yelled her first word, HELP! because she saw the ground and realized she wasn't on it.  His clever text including colorful display type and thought provoking morals are complimented by Emilie Chollat's bright, vivid collage artwork and together this dynamic team has authored an unrivaled book full of insight, wisdom and humor.  Perfect for youngsters 5 and older, Ackamarackus is a wonderful read-aloud book the whole family can enjoy and a sumptious feast for both the ears and the eyes.  If you buy only one new book this year,  Ackamarackus should be the one!	2001-03-29
2055025:US	52793250	R2YTLWI2BM39GF	0670871826	857213166	Hog Music	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Adventure Begins.....	In early spring, little Lucy Owen and her Mama and Papa moved west to a place called Illinois and a farm of their own.  Great Aunt Liza stayed behind.  &quot;Nothing but hog music out there.&quot;  In October, Great Aunt Liza shopped in Baltimore and bought a plain brown straw hat.  She put it in a wooden box with a latch, wrote a happy birthday note to Lucy and gave it to her friend on the mail coach, heading west.  M.C. Helldorfer has written a wonderfully descriptive story of that present's journey, as it's lost and found and continually sent on its way.  Her amusing and detailed text is only outdone by S.D. Schindler's colorful, expressive artwork and together they introduce youngsters to a little slice of nineteenth century history on the National Public Road.  And, as each kind stranger moves the gift a little closer to its destination, adding something special of their own to the box, a ribbon, a feather, coffee beans...excitement will build as children wait for Lucy to finally receive and open her birthday present.  This is a terrific story, complete with happy ending that's perfect for youngsters 4-8 and makes a wonderful addition to home bookshelves.	2001-03-26
2055581:US	52793250	R33BBST41UZD5C	053130177X	608658139	Katie And The Mona Lisa	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Meet the Masters of the Italian Renissance	Katie is back visiting her favorite place, the art museum, with her Grandma.  On this outing she stands in front of the picture of the Mona Lisa.  &quot;I wish I knew what is making you smile&quot;, she wonders.  And with that, the Mona Lisa invites her into the painting.  Katie steps over the frame and enters the world of the Italian Renaissance..... James Mayhew, author of Katie Meets the Impressionists, has written and illustrated another wonderfully inventive story, full of witty text and  expressive artwork, that will transport youngsters back in time and send them on a very creative adventure.  Poor Mona Lisa is sad and lonely, sitting in that chair without visitors for hundreds of years.  So, Katie takes her &quot;out&quot; to meet new friends...They visit St. George from Raphael's St. George and the Dragon, dance with the beautiful women in Botticelli's Primavera and fly to Venice on Carpaccio's The Lion of St. Mark, causing a little trouble and leaving a bit of chaos in their wake.  But fortunately, all is sorted out and put right in the end by the angel from da Vinci student's An Angel With a Lute.  Katie and the Mona Lisa is an amusing and inspired story that will captivate children 4-8 with its magic and offers a terrific and imaginative introduction to the paintings of the Italian Renaissance.	2001-03-26
2056191:US	52793250	R2UTV66Z6UBSYM	0451202473	91466535	Bones	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Irene's Back and Better than Ever.....	Julia Sayre went missing four years ago.  She went to the mall to buy a slip and was never seen nor heard from again.  Irene Kelly, crime reporter for the Las Piernas Express wrote the original missing person stories and has kept in touch with the family, over the years, especially with Julia's teenage daughter, Gillian.  Now there finally seems to be a break in the case.  Nicholas Parrish, a sadistic serial murderer claims to know where the body of Julia Sayre is buried and will lead police there if the death penalty for his crimes is taken off the table.  The D.A. makes the deal and a large contingent of police, forensic specials and other needed personnel, including one representative from the press, Irene, hike into the Sierras with a heavily guarded Parrish to find the body.  But once isolated in the mountains, everything that can go wrong, does and Parrish escapes, leaving a trail of murder, mayhem and carnage in his wake.  Now, with Parrish at large, Irene is looking over her shoulder knowing that she may be his next victim...... Jan Burke has done it again, written a terrific mystery/thriller that grabs you from page one, puts you on the edge of your seat and keeps your heart pounding to the very last page of the book.  Her writing is crisp and smart.  The plot, tight and compelling is plausible, realistic and full of vivid and riveting scenes.  And, her characters are so well drawn, they come alive on the page.  Bones, is the latest addition to a great series that just gets better and better.  If you're new to Ms Burke's, Irene Kelly and gang, start at the beginning with Goodnight Irene and read them all.  If you're already a fan, you definitely won't be disappointed.	2001-03-25
2057281:US	52793250	R2EXMQUK6BC3BZ	0525455809	103536085	The Amazing Pop-up Grammar Book	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Grammar Made Fun	It's hard to believe that anyone could make grammar interesting and fun to learn, but Jennie Maizels and Kate Petty have done the impossible.  Their colorful, detailed and busy Amazing Pop-Up Grammar Book is full of inventive games, puzzles and mysteries that turn the very dull into the very creative.  Kids lift flaps, pull tabs, turn wheels, find hidden treasures and pop-ups as they learn about the different parts of speech and then get lots of entertaining practice activities putting this new knowledge to use.  Perfect for children 7 and up and packed with hours of fun, youngsters will find something new and engaging to do every time they open the book.	2001-03-24
2057316:US	52793250	R36SETCNUGXI3N	0789426145	352601309	Ring! Yo?	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Let Your Imagination Soar...	The phone rings...Ring!  A boy answers...Yo? and we're off and running, eavesdropping on one half of a telephone conversation.  What are they talking about?  What's happened? Can you imagine the other person's response, the person we can't see or hear?   Christopher Raschka has written a one of a kind,  inventive picture book that lets imaginations soar as youngsters get to create the story line and write the other half of this one sided conversation.  His wonderful artwork, full of facial expressions and body language will give kids clues as they fill in the missing text.  With a sample conversation at the end to get you started, children 5 and up will have hours of fun creating new scenarios and lines to complete this phone call.	2001-03-24
2060016:US	52793250	R36CCI1LT7WZT3	0374302995	37716964	And If the Moon Could Talk	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The Perfect Bedtime Story	Night is falling and inside a house a little girl is getting ready for bed.  Her father reads to her, her mother tucks her in.  She sees and hears all the familiar, comforting house sights and  sounds, closes her eyes and begins to dream.  Outside, the moon is watching over the world.  And if the moon could talk, it would tell of woodland creatures hurrying home for supper and sand blowing in the desert, waves crashing on the shore, birds safe in their nests and lion cubs safe with their mother.  It would talk of stars coming out to shine on the world and a little girl curled up with her stuffed rabbit, fast asleep.  And if the moon could talk, it would whisper, Good Night..... Kate Banks has written a lovely, simple bedtime story full of imagery and magic, pre-schoolers will want to hear again and again, night after night.  Her soothing, understated text is beautifully complimented by Georg Hallensleben's lush and expressive artwork and together they've authored a story that will capture your youngster's imagination as he/she are lulled gently to sleep.  And If the Moon Could Talk is a must for all home libraries and is sure to become a classic in the years ahead.	2001-03-22
2060458:US	52793250	RJ8QTSUFN04VG	0446527289	188084707	The First Counsel	Books	1	10	20	N	N	The Worst Book of the Year.....	Michael Garrick is out on his first date with the president's daughter, Nora Hartson.  She's beautiful, wild and very rebellious and in no time, they've lost her secret service escort and are sitting in an anonymous gay bar, in the wee hours of the morning, having a drink.  As they talk, Edgar Simon, Chief White House Counsel and Michael's boss walks in, meets with someone and then just as quickly leaves.  Curious, Mike and Nora follow him and discover he's left a $40,000 payoff in an isolated wooded area.  As Michael tries to find out who's blackmailing whom and why, he sets off a chain reaction of murder, mayhem, dirty tricks and deceit that reaches all the way to the Oval Office.  Now, as his world is set on its end, he's running for his life and trusting no one..... Brad Meltzer has written a book with absolutely no substance.  His plot is implausible and unrealistic, his writing is very  immature and awkward and he shows no ear for dialogue.  His characters are poorly drawn, show no depth or motivation and the relationship between Mike and Nora is contrived and ridiculous.  Add to that a very unsatisfying ending with a lot of loose ends and you have the makings of a total disappointment.  Do yourself a favor and skip The First Counsel.  There are too many really good political thrillers out there to read.	2001-03-21
2062630:US	52793250	R66S45EV48PVS	0316666009	30029813	1st to Die (Women's Murder Club)	Books	2	20	27	N	N	Disappointing	There's a cruel and sadistic killer lose in the San Fransisco area targeting brides and grooms on their wedding day.  Homicide Inspector, Lindsay Boxer, first on the scene and in charge of the task force of this very high profile case, is getting nowhere fast.  So she gets together with three friends, Claire, a medical examiner, Jill, an assistant district attorney and Cindy, a newspaper reporter and they decide to run a parallel investigation, outside of the box, to solve these crimes.  They dub their group the Women's Murder Club and within days do what the whole police force is unable to do, find the mastermind behind these horrible crimes.  But after their suspect is arrested and incriminating evidence is found in his home, members of the Club start to rethink the crimes and change their minds...Do they have the real killer?.....1st To Die is a provocative novel with an interesting premise, but James Patterson just doesn't deliver.  The story, told in the first person, by Lindsay, is awkward and just doesn't ring true.  The plot, though compelling at times, is predictable and needs to be tightened up and the short chapters that jump around from character to character and scene to scene, take the tension and suspense out of the story.  You're never left on the edge of your seat.  The characters are one dimensional and you never really get into their heads, especially the murderer's.  And, the secondary story lines are superfluous, adding nothing but more pages to the story.  1st To Die is a thriller without the thrills.  Do yourself a favor and skip this one.	2001-03-20
2063524:US	52793250	R2TOHZT0ULLJ5T	0385327978	488634269	Where Are You, Blue Kangaroo?	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Hold Tight to your Blue Kangaroo	Lily's very favorite toy in the world is her stuffed Blue Kangaroo and she takes him everywhere with her.  Unfortunately, she doesn't always hold tight to her special friend and Blue Kangaroo waits and worries for Lily to remember him and scream &quot;Where are you blue kangaroo?&quot;  At the park, she left him at the top of the slide.  When she got off the bus, she left him on the seat and another nice passenger had to save him.  And at the zoo, she left him by the monkey cage and the monkies threw him all over the place before she remembered and had him rescued.  When Lily mentions that night in bed that they're going to the seashore, Blue Kangaroo panics and when Lily's asleep, decides to take matters into his own hands..... Emma Chichester Clark has written a wonderfully creative story about friendship and responsibility many pre-schoolers will be able to identify with.  Her simple, gentle text, with surprise ending that will have your little ones giggling, is complimented by her vibrant, expressive artwork and youngsters will love finding blue kangaroo in the pictures before Lily does.  Where Are You Blue Kangaroo is a story kids will want to read again and again and may even help teach them to hold onto their &quot;Blue Kangaroos&quot; a little tighter.	2001-03-19
2063531:US	52793250	R2VJC9YW1I411P	0811806472	886704413	The Night I Followed the Dog	Books	5	4	4	N	N	What a Dog!	A young boy always thought his dog was kind of boring.  All he ever did was eat and sleep.  He couldn't sing or change the TV channels like his neighbor's dog and he never won any medals at obedience school.  But all that changed, the night he followed his dog.  This boring old dog headed straight for his doghouse, changed into a tuxedo, ran down the street, jumped into a limousine and headed downtown to a nightclub called The Doghouse, a place where dogs can relax, have a few bowls of water and lie on the sofas.  It's a place where dogs can be dogs..... Nina Laden has written a charming, funny story of a dog's night out that will delight youngsters with it's witty story line and expressive artwork.  Her text, written in the first person, is printed to look like a kid's handwriting and is full of playful picture-like detail (roll-over is upside down, wagging is wiggly and wagging and eat has bites taken out of it) and her illustrations of canines nightclubbing, will have kids and adults alike, laughing out loud.  This is a marvelously creative and imaginative picture book that is  sure to take your youngsters on a hilarious adventure they shouldn't miss.	2001-03-19
2063886:US	52793250	R34CNF8U4CLJQB	0531301516	965353633	Katie Meets The Impressionists	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Meet the Impressionists.....	It's Grandma's birthday and she's taken Katie to one of her favorite places, the art museum.  As Katie looks at The Luncheon by Monet, it looks so real and inviting that she thinks she can actually smell the flowers.  A bouquet would be nice for Grandma and so she steps over the frame into the picture..... James Mayhew has written a wonderfully imaginative story that will introduce youngsters to the impressionists.  As Katie moves from picture to picture, meeting Renoir's Girl with a Watering Can, playing with Monet's son Jean in Field of Poppies and dancing with the ballerinas in The Blue Dancers, children will explore the beauty and magic of these and other paintings.  His simple, gentle text is combined with creative, detailed illustrations that transport kids, along with Katie, right into the pictures.  With an afterword about the artists and their pictures to expand lessons and discussions, it won't be long before you're taking a trip to the museum!	2001-03-19
2066291:US	52793250	R1E142S5HUSVDX	0811811212	605723338	When Pigasso Met Mootisse	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A &quot;Moosterpiece&quot;	When Pigasso Met Mootisse is a wonderful parody detailing the rivalry, feuding and eventual friendship of artists Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse.  Nina Laden's creative and witty text, full of wordplay and puns, will have adults and children alike, laughing out loud and also offers the subtle lesson of acceptance and respect for others and their work.  But, it's her bold, bright, busy and humorous illustrations that will mesmerize youngsters and older art lovers will enjoy finding the &quot;pig&quot; and &quot;bull&quot; representations of Picasso's and Matisse's best known works.  The biographical afterword, discussing their lives, painting and relationship, will enhance the story and give children a better understanding of these two great artists.  This is a marvelous, vivid picture book, perfect for kids 4-8;  a hilarious story for the ears and a visual feast for the eyes.	2001-03-16
2066587:US	52793250	R1HSBM0GMBP5YI	0374361665	774249251	Radio Rescue	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Radio, Rescue and Much, Much More	Back in the 1920s communication wasn't as easy as it is today.  Telephones didn't have dials or buttons and operators had to place your calls for you and this could mean waiting several hours to finally get to talk to someone.  Lynne Barasch has taken a little bit of personal history and authored a wonderful picture book about the wireless radio, the first instant communication.  Her father, the book's hero became the youngest licensed amateur radio operator in the country.  Radio Rescue is his story of how he went about learning Morse Code and international signals, passing the test and getting his license, setting up his station and aerial and finally communicating and making new friends all over the world.  And though it started out as a hobby, for fun, during the Florida hurricane of 1926, when all the phone lines were wiped out, he was instrumental in relaying news and rescuing a Key Largo family..... This is an informative and exciting story full of history, fun facts and detail kids 6-10 will really enjoy.  The easy to read, first person text, complete with Morse code, is complimented by the simple, expressive illustrations and together they're sure to peak the interest of possible future ham radio operators.	2001-03-16
2067705:US	52793250	R3QRSGEMBYIS1O	0449006395	360350805	Dying to Remember (Jennifer Marsh Mystery)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Light, Fun Mystery	Poor Jennifer Marsh, still unpublished, aspiring mystery writer is wondering what she's doing at her high school reunion.  Everyone there seems to have &quot;peaked&quot; in high school, from the now overweight, going soft jocks, to the old cheerleadering squad to her first love Danny Buckner, who abandoned her at the senior prom, the absolute worst night of her life.  Now he wants to meet and talk privately with her.  But before he can say two words, the class football star, Al Carpenter whisks him away, just like he did the night of the prom, and the next time anyone sees Danny, he's dead, sitting in his car with the engine running.  Suicide?  Murder?  This current death brings back more bad memories of prom night, twelve years ago.  That was the night, Jimmy Mitchell went missing, presumed dead, his body never found and the case never solved.  This is all too much of a coincidence for Jennifer and with the help of her boyfriend, Sam and the women in her writer's critique group, she's determined to find out exactly what happened on prom night, twelve years ago and how it connects to Danny's death..... Judy Fitzwater is back with another entertaining, well paced mystery, full of quirky characters, smart, witty writing, laugh-out-loud dialogue and enough twists, turns and surprises to keep you guessing to the end.  This is the fourth mystery in this fun series.  For those of you new to Jennifer Marsh and company, start with Dying to Get Published and read them all.  If you're already a fan, put up your feet and spend the next couple of hours letting Judy Fitzwater work her magic.	2001-03-15
2068749:US	52793250	R2IUWRBB67IUK4	0786707755	866757070	Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow?: A Sam McCain Mystery	Books	5	1	2	N	N	McCain's Back and Better than Ever!	September 1959, Khrushchev is visiting Iowa and the citizens of Black River Falls are caught up in the &quot;Red Scare&quot;.  Richard Conners, a left-leaning professor, political writer and the town's biggest success story is murdered and found with a hammer and sickle painted in blood on his forehead.  Sam McCain, a young lawyer who's just getting started and still earning most of his money with his private investigator's license is taking this crime personally.  It seems Conner's body ended up dead in his office.  Between the anti-communists and left-wingers, a jealous wife and various other citizens, not too fond of Conners, McCain doesn't lack for suspects.  But when some of them start turning up dead, too, Sam knows this isn't just about politics.  It's starting to look way too personal..... Ed Gorman has done it again.  Taken you back to small town life in the nostalgic 1950s with a murder mystery that's just pure fun to read.  His quirky, unrivaled cast of characters are wonderful.  His writing crisp and smart and full of witty and irreverent dialogue and his vivid scenes, laugh-out-loud funny.  This is the third book of a terrific series.  If you're new to McCain and gang, start at the beginning with The Day the Music Died.  If you're already a fan, you won't be disappointed.  Easily read in one sitting, Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow is a winner.	2001-03-14
2069150:US	52793250	R2KRDCVQ7DFMOI	0060281642	400162857	Nutik, the Wolf Pup	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Marvelous!	When she was younger and lost and starving, Julie was saved by wolves who shared their food and kept her safe and warm.  Now many years later, Julie brings her brother, Amoraq, a small sickly wolfpup to feed and take care of.  She tells him, &quot;When he is fat and well, the wolves will come and get him.&quot;  Amoraq looks into the golden eyes of the pup, Nutik, and it's love at first sight.  &quot;Don't fall in love, Amoraq&quot;, Julie warns him, &quot;be strong.&quot;  As time goes by and the three months of summer light begins to fade, Nutik becomes fat and healthy and soon the wolves call for him.  At first, Amoraq takes Nutik and runs away.  But soon, the wolves call again and Nutik knows it's time to go home where he belongs..... Jean Craighead George has written a  memorable picture book introduction to her Julie and the Wolves books, a whole new generation will treasure.  Her text, full of imagery and magic will capture your youngster's heart and Ted Rand's expressive illustrations of the Alaskan tundra will mesmerize children with their vivid beauty.  Together, they've authored a special book of love, friendship and respect your kids will want to read again and again.  And, just like her Julie books, Nutik the Wolf Pup is sure to become a classic in the years ahead.	2001-03-14
2069378:US	52793250	R1NGY50KZ8QMJO	0786806109	69397415	Dumpy at School	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Hooray for Dumpy!	It's a day of firsts at Merryhill Farm.  Dumpy is off to his first construction job away from the farm, building the new school playground and Charlie is off to his very first day at school.  New firsts are a little scary and Dumpy's radiator feels full of bubbles while Charlie's stomach has butterflies.  Each feels a bit lost at the beginning of the day...Charlie, meeting a new teacher, Mrs Bundle and making new friends and Dumpy, feeling a bit overwhelmed by Buzz the Bulldozer as he works hard on the new playground.  But both do very well.  And, at the end of the day when Steady Gus the School Bus breaks down and Mrs Bundle doesn't know how the kids will get home, Dumpy and Charlie save the day.....   Julie Andrews and her daughter, Emma Hamilton are back with a new and endearing Dumpy story, pre-schoolers will love.  Their gentle text, full of true to life situations, little ones will identify with and silly sound effects is complimented by Tony Walton's wonderful expressive and colorful illustrations and together they let youngsters know in a very positive way, that firsts can be fun.	2001-03-14
2071399:US	52793250	RZZVWPRC09N5Y	0802787371	229399794	Testing Miss Malarkey	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Miss Malarkey is Back!	&quot;The Test&quot;...Miss Malarkey said it wasn't important, it's not on your report cards, there's no extra homework and whether you do well or not, you still get promoted to the next grade.  Okay, so why is she biting her nails?  And why are we playing Multiplication Mambo and Funny Phonics at recess?  The principal is tense and worried about number 2 pencils.  The cafeteria is only serving fish, brain food.  In art we're practicing filling in small circles and in gym, Mr Fittanuff is teaching us yoga.  It's even a little weird at home.  After my mom read me my bedtime story, she made me complete a review sheet before I could go to sleep.  Finally the day of &quot;The Test&quot; arrives..... Judy Finchler and Kevin O'Malley have written and illustrated a charming, witty story, both youngsters and adults will really be able to identify with, that pokes fun at all the standardized test-taking kids are faced with these days.  Their easy to read, true to life text and funny, expressive artwork will have teachers, students and parents laughing out loud as everyone goes a little overboard getting ready for &quot;The Test.&quot;  And after testing week, as everybody and everything gets back to normal, Miss Malarkey's class decides that maybe &quot;The Test&quot; really wasn't that important after all!	2001-03-12
2072645:US	52793250	R1XB9CTPT42NT4	0399147055	825697461	The Fourth Angel	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Red-Hot Debut!	The Fourth Angel's first chapter is so riveting and compelling, that once you start reading this terrific new thriller, you won't be able to put it down.  Rookie fire marshall, Georgia Skeehan, is put on the task force to solve an inferno that leveled a New York City skyscraper in minutes, killing fifty-four people.  With unprecedented temperatures of almost 3000 degrees, nobody had a chance to escape and those caught in the building practically melted to death.  Because she's a rookie and a woman, the task force basically ignores her, giving Georgia grunt work to keep her out of their way.  But when she stumbles over clues that link this fire with several others and letters that prove this may be the work of a serial arsonist, the task force begins to take her more seriously and show her some respect.  As evidence and bizarre details mount and point to unlikely suspects, the task force is unsure who to trust and Georgia and her team race against the clock to find the answers before the promised final catastrophe..... Suzanne Chazin has written a spectacular debut mystery/thriller that has it all...a tight, suspenseful plot, smart, tense writing, vivid scenes that come alive on the page and memorable, well-drawn characters.  It is obvious that Ms Chazin has done her homework on the world of firefighting and this indepth knowledge really adds credibility to the story.  This is the first of what should be a terrific series with a great heroine.  The Fourth Angel is a winner and a book mystery/thriller fans shouldn't miss.	2001-03-11
2074788:US	52793250	RW3UDXOIS5OF6	0140568123	515625430	Miss Fannie's Hat	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Story of Love and Generosity	Miss Fannie is 99 years old and has grown to be about the same size she was as a little girl.  She lives with her daughter, Wanda and has a wonderful collection of hats.  Each hat is Miss Fannie's favorite, especially the pink straw with silk roses she wears on Easter and everyone at church looks forward to seeing Miss Fannie each week in one of her spectacular hats.  One day Miss Fannie's preacher asks her for a special favor.  Would she donate one of her hats to the church auction to raise money for repairs and upkeep?  Miss Fannie is really excited about being able to help her church and goes home and lays out all her many hats around the room.  Which to choose.  It's so hard because each tells a story about her life.  But in the end, Miss Fannie decides to donate her very favorite pink straw with the silk roses because it will raise the most money and do the most good.  On Easter Sunday, Miss Fannie, for the very first time ever, goes to church without a hat.  The preacher and the whole congregation are waiting for her.  Because of her hat, they were able to patch the church bell, fix the organ and do a little planting so that Miss Fannie will always be able to remember her hat..... Jan Karon has written a lovely, gentle story about love, faith and generosity that youngsters will want to read again and again.  Her expressive, simple text is complimented by Toni Goffe's wonderful, cheerful illustrations and together they teach the rewards of kindness and unselfishness.  This is a terrific story that's perfect for youngsters 4-8 and is sure to become a classic in the years ahead.  Miss Fannie's Hat is a winner!	2001-03-09
2075311:US	52793250	R2AVHJRTQ8QBR2	0689821042	70933318	I Knew Two Who Said Moo: A Counting and Rhyming Book	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wacky, Zany Fun	Judi Barrett and Daniel Moreton have collaborated on a marvelous book of counting, rhyming and matching that will mesmerize pre-schoolers with its humor and detail.  Each silly, imaginative  riddle, that rhymes with its page number, (&quot;I noticed six, All holding picks, Trying to mix, A pile of bricks...&quot;) is  illustrated with busy, vibrant artwork and youngsters will love to solve the easy riddles and find all the numbers and characters that correspond to the poem.  Terrific for little ones just learning to count and rhyme, I Knew Two Who Said Moo is a winner kids won't be able to put down.	2001-03-09
2075576:US	52793250	R3O3S4CE7H776B	0374355207	208933840	The Night Worker	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Off to Another World....	Every night, Papa kisses Alex good night, puts him to bed and then goes off to work.  He's an engineer at a construction site and a  night worker.  While everyone else is home and in bed, sleeping, Papa is at work, doing his job.  One special night, Papa gives Alex his own hard hat and together they go out into the night to Papa's job..... Kate Banks has written a gentle, endearing story full of imagery and magic that turns the quiet night into an unimagined busy place...full of street sweepers, delivery men, heavy machinery and cranes that dig holes, move earth, pour concrete and lift steel.  Her simple easy to read text is complimented by Georg Hallensleben's wonderful, subdued artwork that will transport youngsters right to the job site, surrounding them with the sights, sounds and construction activity as the night workers go about their work.  And as day begins to break, all is quiet and little Alex has gone to sleep, dreaming of becoming a night worker, too, when he grows up.	2001-03-09
2076709:US	52793250	R2G72R0NVHQBDY	081182778X	842730766	Enemy Pie (Reading Rainbow book)	Books	5	53	54	N	N	How to Get Rid of Your Worst Enemy	Life was good, until Jeremy Ross moved into the neighborhood and became enemy number one.  Fortunately for this young boy, his dad knows just how to handle enemies...an old secret recipe, Enemy Pie.  And while dad does the cooking, our young man must do his part, the hardest part.  He has to spend the entire day, being nice and playing with Jeremy.  First they rode bikes and bounced on the trampoline.  Next they threw water balloons at girls and played some basketball.  And towards the end of the day, they went up in the treehouse and played checkers and cards.  Finally, dad called and said it was time for pie.  What was a guy going to do?  He liked Jeremy.  They had become friends and were going to play again tomorrow.  He definitely didn't want Jeremy eating any Enemy Pie..... Derek Munson has written a charming, amusing story with a subtle lesson that will not be lost on youngsters.  His text and humorous dialogue are true to life and kids will really be able to identify with his characters.  Tara Calahan King's wonderful, expressive artwork really compliments the story and together they send the important message that the best way to get rid of your enemies, is to make them your friends.  Perfect for children 4-8, Enemy Pie is a winner.	2001-03-08
2077691:US	52793250	R1D32H6G7WS11G	0811824659	956666045	Roberto, The Insect Architect	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A Terrific Little Termite!	From the beginning, Roberto was different.  He loved his wood, but he'd always rather play with his food than eat it.  More than anything he wanted to become a famous architect like his heroes, Hank Floyd Mite and Fleas Van Der Rohe.  Belittled at home by the other termites and never taken seriously, Roberto sets off for the big city to &quot;build his dreams.&quot;  Life in the city is hard, and not just for Roberto.  He meets all kinds of bugs with housing problems, including roaches chased from a diner, a housefly with no place to go and a poor ladybug whose house is on fire and children are gone.  Marshalling all his determination, Roberto decides to build a new community, that will meet the needs of these out-of-luck bugs and maybe make his architect dreams come true at the same time..... Nina Laden has written and illustrated a delightful and amusing story with a most improbable hero and youngsters will be rooting for Roberto as he chases and finally realizes his heart's desire, in his bug eat bug world.  Ms Laden's witty text, full of creative wordplay, will charm adults as well as children and her outstanding collage artwork, so full of wonderful detail, really brings this story to life.  A terrific picture book for youngsters 4-8, Roberto the Insect Architect lets everyone know that with hard work, your dreams can come true.	2001-03-07
2080366:US	52793250	R29KSVTI5A7J9M	0425178552	40123285	Wake Up Little Susie	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Fun in the Fifties	What could be better than life in Black River Falls, Iowa on a September Saturday in 1957?  The new car of the future, the Edsel, is being introduced to the town at the local Ford dealership and there's balloons, hog callers and marching bands, baton twirlers, cub scouts and tap-dancing twins.  Unfortunately, there's also the dead body of Susan Squires in the trunk of one of the new Edsels.  Sam McCain, a young lawyer who's earning most of his income with his private investigator's license, is asked to look into the murder.  In no time, he's got way too many suspects, among them the victim's husband, David.  But, soon David turns up dead too and McCain's highschool honey, Mary, goes missing and Sam sets out on a mission to solve the case and find his sweetheart, before it's too late..... Ed Gorman has written an entertaining mystery that will transport you back to those nostalgic days of the 1950s.  His writing is crisp and smart and full of witty and irreverent dialogue; his plot, tense and full of surprises and his scenes, vivid and at times, laugh-out loud funny.  But it's Mr Gorman's characters that are the real strength of this novel.  From the brandy sipping, cigarette smoking, rubberband shooting judge to the fat, bully of a sherriff with a skin condition, who only got the job because his father runs the town, to McCain's best friend, Jeff who's backing out of his engagement because his fiance might not be a virgin, this is a cast of unrivaled, quirky denizens you won't soon forget.  Wake Up Little Susie is the second book of a terrific new series, full of small town detail and 1950's wisdom, that shouldn't be missed.	2001-03-05
2080491:US	52793250	RKAOX0POU35U5	0374425345	274606727	George Washington's Cows	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Poor George.....	Have you ever wondered why George Washington left Mount Vernon and became the father of our country?  Award winning author and illustrator, David Small, let's you in on that little well-kept secret.  It all started with his cows.  They wouldn't give milk unless they could live upstairs in their own room with silk bedding, dress in lavender gowns, eat scones and jam and wear perfume.  Then there were the hogs.  They thought they were maids and butlers, doing chores, filling in for sick servants and serving meals.  And, when it came to genius, Washington's flock of sheep were unrivaled.  It all became to much for him, so he gave up the farm, crossed the Delaware and went into politics.  Told with creativity and great humor, Mr Small's wonderful rhyming text is complimented by his detailed, expressive watercolor artwork and youngsters will laugh out loud as they see cows, lazing about in bed, pigs in wigs serving dinner and sheep in caps and gowns teaching lessons to Washington's guests.  This is a delightful, silly, witty picture book that can be enjoyed by children of all ages and makes a wonderful addition to all home libraries.	2001-03-05
2080965:US	52793250	R3R49S4I9MXC7Y	0374383006	55491592	What Is A Wise Bird Like You Doing In A Silly Tale Like This?	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Marvelous!	What do you get when you take a strange land called Pickleberry, inhabited by an emperor and his brother, the janitor, a very wise bird named Lou and Lou's, Aunt Millie, a half invisible man with half a large mustache, a traveling salesman and a bear who's lost his tail?  Easy...a charming, creative, laugh-out-loud picture book by award winning author and illustrator, Uri Shulevitz.  And Mr Shulevitz has done just about the impossible, woven three seemingly unrelated nonsensical stories together and made it work.  His wonderfully absurd text, full of imagery, made-up words and wild, ridiculous events is only outdone by his truly inspired and magical artwork and youngsters will be mesmerized by the colorful, detailed, expressive illustrations.  What is a Wise Bird Like You Doing in a Silly Tale Like This? is a very special story, really three special stories, that's perfect for children aged 4 and older.  Uri Shulevitz never disappoints and he's not starting now!	2001-03-05
2081559:US	52793250	R374PF8SN907CA	0152017909	338893362	Crickwing	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Crickwing is One Special Cockroach	Poor Crickwing, teased and belittled by the other cockroaches because of his broken, crooked wing, leads a lonely, solitary existence creating food sculptures out of leaves, roots and petals and then eating them.  Unfortunately, he's a target for larger cockroach eating creatures, like monkeys and lizards who steal his food and leave him hungry, frightened and shaking.  One morning Crickwing sees tiny leafcutter ants hard at work and in his frustration begins to bully and torment them.  After a few mishaps, the ants band together, swarm and carry him off to their queen to be punished.  She decides to give him to the army ants as the annual peace offering.  But on the way to the army ant camp, the leafcutters have a change of heart.  Nobody, not even a cockroach bully deserves this fate and they let him go.  Because of their kindness, Crickwing has an attack of conscience and decides to help save them from the army ant's wrath.  He devises an ingenious plan and with the leafcutter's help sends those horrible, mean army ants packing, forever...... It's hard to believe that a cockroach can be lovable and sympathetic, but award winning author and illustrator, Janell Cannon has done the impossible.  Her gentle, sensitive text, with its themes of brotherhood and compassion, is only outdone by her vivid, larger than life artwork and youngsters will be fascinated by the detail in the insect drawings.  Notes and fun facts about ants and cockroaches are included at the end of the story and can easily be used to expand insect lessons and discussions.  For everyone who loved Stellaluna and Verdi, Crickwing is a wonderful addition to the series and a story kids 4-8 will want to read again and again.	2001-03-04
2083299:US	52793250	R2QOEYAPBBG4J1	0517562421	651922599	Imogene's Antlers (Reading Rainbow)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Imogene...You've Got to Love Her	&quot;On Thursday, when Imogene woke up, she found she had grown antlers.&quot;  So begins award winning author and illustrator, David Small's silly, funny, very charming story.  Imogene has quite a day trying to get dressed, walking through doorways and under chandeliers.  And she finds her antlers are useful too, for drying laundry and feeding birds.  Her family is puzzled, the doctor can't find anything wrong, her school principal has no advice and her brother thinks she's turning into a rare miniature elk.  Everyone's upset but Imogene.  After dinner, Imogene goes to bed, dreaming of her very unusual day.  &quot;On Friday, when Imogene woke up, the antlers had disappeared.&quot;  Her family is overjoyed to see her back to her normal self, until she walks into the room..... Imogene's Antlers is a magical story that's perfect for kids 4-8 years old.  The delightful, simple text is secondary to Mr Small's wonderful, expressive illustrations and youngsters will laugh out loud as they watch Imogene and her family's antics as they get through the day.  Imogene's Antlers is a classic that will be enjoyed for generations to come and a MUST for all home libraries!	2001-03-02
2083317:US	52793250	R1PPJ5P4313MDP	006024528X	85143364	Tell Me Again About the Night I Was Born	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Story of Love	Jamie Lee Curtis and Laura Cornell have  collaborated once again and authored a marvelous story of love and remembrance.  &quot;Tell me again about the night I was born...&quot;, a little girl asks and then proceeds to tell her favorite story all by herself.  About how her parents were sleeping when the phone call came, how they screamed with joy, took an airplane to the hospital and held hands all the way there.  About the first time they saw her and held her and protected her from sneezes on the plane ride home.  About her first bottle and diaper change and first night in her new home...about their first night together as a new family.  Ms Curtis' simple, gentle, sometimes poignant text is complimented by Ms Cornell's busy, colorful, expressive illustrations and together they tell this story with  insight, wisdom and humor.  Tell Me Again About the Night I Was Born is a charming picture book, perfect for youngsters 2 and older, about the uniqueness of each and every birth, of both a child and a family.  This is a story to be treasured and read again and again.	2001-03-02
2084846:US	52793250	R2X75FU7GTTYOS	0671782169	853482373	Dear Irene: An Irene Kelly Novel (Irene Kelly Mysteries)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Go Get 'em, Irene	Irene Kelly, reporter for the Las Piernas Express and newly engaged to boyfriend, Frank Harriman, has received her share of crank mail and calls.  But nothing like this.  The first letter from &quot;Thanatos&quot; (Greek God of death) details the death of Clio (Greek Muse of history) using the hammer of Hephaestus, saying the eyes of Argus (Hera took the 100 eyes of Argus and put them in a peacocks tail) will be upon her remains.  And that night, history professor Edna Blaylock, was bludgeoned to death and her body was thrown into the peacock exhibit at the zoo.  Unfortunately, this is only the first letter from Thanatos.  It looks like Las Piernas has a serial killer on its hands who will only communicate with Irene.  No matter how fast Irene and the police solve the riddles in these mythological letters, they're always a step behind the killer.  As the body count rises, Irene digs into the background of Thanatos' victims trying to find a link and a motive to these senseless murders, hoping next time, she won't be too late..... Jan Burke has done it again.  Another great Irene Kelly mystery that will put you on the edge of your seat and keep you turning pages to the end.  This story has it all...smart, crisp writing and witty dialogue, a terrific plot line full of twists, turns and surprises, great characters and suspenseful scenes.  Ms Burke has a real talent for scaring you one moment and making you laugh out loud, the next.  Dear Irene is pure entertainment and a joy to read.  If you're new to the series, go back and start at the beginning with Goodnight Irene.  If you're already a fan, this mystery won't disappoint.	2001-03-01
2085336:US	52793250	R3GJ1S3RZXLFUY	0439071771	655085319	Big Truck and Little Truck (hc)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Truck Love	Big Truck and Little Truck lived and worked together on Farley's Farm and Big Truck took care of Little Truck and taught him everything he knew.  That is until the day Big Truck's engine wouldn't start.  Little Truck cried as he watch Tow Truck pull Big Truck away.  He had never been alone.  &quot;I'll be back soon,&quot; Big Truck assured him.  &quot;Just remember the things I taught you.&quot;  Little Truck was sad and anxious, but he got right to work.  He took all the fruits and vegetables to market.  He drove alone on the highway and remembered to keep his lights on the road.  And when he skidded into a ditch, Little Truck knew how to go easy and rock back and forth to get himself out.  After a few days Big Truck came back home and he looked great.  His engine purred and he even had a nice new paint job.  Little Truck couldn't wait to tell him all the &quot;big truck&quot; things he had done.  But there was no time to talk right then.  They had lots of work to do on Farley's Farm..... Jan Carr has written a very tender and sensitive story about love and the fear of separation all pre-schoolers experience, from time to time.  Her gentle text is complimented by Ivan Bates colorful and expressive artwork and youngsters will be entranced as they watch Little Truck triumph and become more and more sure of himself.  This is a wonderful, reassuring story that helps teach self-reliance and the big lesson that separation isn't forever.	2001-03-01
2086284:US	52793250	R34V47PGYDTFXT	067166154X	435623989	Sylvester and the Magic Pebble	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Be Careful What You Wish For...	Sylvester Duncan, a nice little donkey who lives with his mother and father collects pebbles of interesting shapes and colors.  One rainy day, he finds a most remarkable bright red, shiny, round pebble on Strawberry Hill and as he examines it, feeling the cold rain on his back, he wishes it would stop raining.  And it does.  In the blink of an eye, the rain is gone and the sun is shining.  Sylvester realizes that he has found a magic pebble, one that grants wishes and he begins to think of all the wonderful things he and his family and friends can wish for to make their lives happier.  But at that moment, he looks up and sees a hungry lion looking at him and panics.  Instead of wishing that the lion would disappear, he wishes he were a rock.  And he becomes a rock.  Unfortunately, the magic pebble is lying on the ground next to him, not on him and so even though he wishes and wishes that he were back to his old self again, nothing happens.  As summer turns to fall, fall turns to winter and winter to spring, poor Sylvester, the rock, is stuck up on Strawberry Hill, missing his parents and trying to find a way back to his old self..... Award winning author and illustrator, William Steig, has written a charming and tender story about the meaning of true happiness, that's perfect for youngsters 4-8.  In his very gentle way, he lets children discover that it's not always what you want that will make you happy, but what you already have.  This simple, magical text, coupled with his wonderfully expressive cartoon-like artwork will capture children's imaginations as they wait to see if Sylvester will ever find a way to make his most important wish come true, to turn back into his old donkey self and be with his family.  Sylvester and the Magic Pebble is sure to become a classic and is a story your kids will want to read again and again.	2001-02-28
2086690:US	52793250	R2JDLG6B68P0TK	0679990011	128110122	Super Fast, Out of Control! (A Stepping Stone Book(TM))	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Marvin's Back....	How does Marvin Redpost get himself into these situations?  The talk around school is that he's got a new mountain bike and is going to take on Suicide Hill.  Truth is, Marvin can hardly even climb onto the bike, no less ride it.  If he actually survives the ride, he'll be the most popular boy at school.  If he wimps out, he'll never be able to show his face again.  And if he challenges the hill and loses, his friends and family may get to watch the worst wipeout, ever.  Poor Marvin is scared to death and doesn't know what he's going to do..... Louis Sachar has written another charming and amusing story your 7-10 year olds will really be able to identify with.  This is a story full of great, realistic scenes, true to life dialogue and characters, so real, they could live in your neighborhood.  And as Marvin decides whether to take that fateful trip down Suicide Hill or not, your youngsters will be rooting for him.  Mr Sachar and Marvin never disappoint and they're not starting now.	2001-02-28
2088307:US	52793250	R1QSEJAYO05XZ7	0689825501	388847758	Kate and the Beanstalk	Books	5	5	7	N	N	An Old Fairy Tale with a New Twist	Mary Pope Osborne has taken the old Jack and the Beanstalk fairy tale and given it a nice new twist.  The basic story is still in place.  But, instead of lazy Jack, trading his cow for magic beans and then stealing riches from the giant, Ms Osborne gives us Kate, a resourceful, kind and determined young lady who outsmarts that horrible, cruel giant so that she can return his riches to their rightful owner.  This wonderful text is complimented by award winning illustrator, Giselle Potter's expressive and creative artwork and youngsters will be entranced as they hear this old familiar story told with a new heroine and surprise, happy-ever-after ending.	2001-02-26
2089337:US	52793250	RT8L3FC78HJUU	0399233482	156568810	Mirette and Bellini Cross Niagara Falls	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mirette and Bellini are Back!	Award winning author and illustrator, Emily Arnold McCully, has written another wonderful adventure, starring Mirette and Bellini.  Our world famous high-wire walkers are sailing to America where they will perform at Niagara Falls.  While on board ship, Mirette befriends a Polish orphan boy, Jakob, who's traveling to America to live with his uncle.  When they arrive at Ellis Island, Jakob's uncle is not there to claim him.  Bellini knows that Jakob will be sent back to Poland and so he decides to takes the little boy with them to Niagara Falls.  When they arrive, they find their performance has turned into a big competition.  A Mr Patch, who claims to be the greatest high-wire walker in America says that he will perform a trick that's never been done before on the wire, becoming the greatest tightrope walker in the world.  He tells the press and anyone else who will listen that Mirette and Bellini will fall.  The next day as Mirette and Bellini practice and supervise the wire installation across the falls, Jakob follows Patch and his men to find out what trick he has up his sleeve.  And what he finds out saves his new friends lives..... Ms McCully's latest book is a delightful story of friendship, intrigue and courage.  Her wonderful text and beautiful, expressive watercolor artwork will transport youngsters back in time to life at the turn of the century.  And as little Jakob saves the day and Mirette and Bellini triumph, kids will enjoy the happily-ever-after ending.  Perfect for youngsters 4-8, Mirette and Bellini Cross Niagara Falls is a winner!	2001-02-26
2090409:US	52793250	R1HQY6CCS51SVA	0671787268	609092345	The Girls He Adored	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Spellbinding Thriller	Irene Cogan, psychiatrist and one of the country's leading authorities on dissociative identity disorder (multiple personalities), has been appointed, by the court, to examine a prisoner in the Monterey County jail.  The suspect, who gives his name only as Max, was stopped for a simple traffic violation and found sitting next to a disemboweled strawberry blond woman, holding a bloody nine inch boning knife.  His arrest sets law enforcement's wheels in motion as the FBI moves in on the case.  For the last ten years, a dozen women from across the country have gone missing, last seen with an attractive young man.  The only connection between all these missing victims is their strawberry blond hair.  The FBI has dubbed this kidnapper, Casey and now, special agent Edgar Lee Pender thinks this guy may be the break they've been waiting for.  But, before he can even reopen the case or interview the prisoner, the suspect breaks out of jail, kidnaps Irene Cogan and disappears, leaving a trail of carnage in his wake..... Jonathan Nasaw has written a well paced, compelling, intricately plotted novel that will put you on the edge of your seat and keep you there to the very last page.  His writing is crisp, spare and suspenseful, with a wonderful ear for dialogue and his true to life, vivid scenes are graphic and riveting.  This is definitely not a novel for the faint of heart.  But the real strength of this novel is its characters.  Once you get into their heads, you won't be able to put this book down.  It is obvious that Mr Nasaw has done his homework on the FBI, psychiatry and dissociative identity disorder and his in-depth knowledge on these subjects add real credibility to the story.  The Girls He Adored is a terrific thriller, destined for all the best sellers lists and a novel  that shouldn't be missed.	2001-02-25
2091290:US	52793250	RWVAJ1YQWL661	0060270926	798794031	How to Talk to Your Dog (Talk to Your Pets)	Books	5	9	21	N	N	A Doggone Good Book	Did you know that dogs don't just use their voice to communicate, but also their eyes, nose, tail, ears and even body position?  Jean Craighead George has written a charming and humorous book that will not only help you understand your dog, but help you &quot;talk&quot; right back to him.  As she explains on page one, &quot;No one will ever love you as much as your dog does&quot;.   He will be your friend for life, so why not speak his own language.  Ms George's easy to read and informative text coupled with Sue Truesdell's delightful illustrations will make you a canine communicator in no time.  This is the perfect book your whole family can enjoy together and a must read if you have or are planning on getting a dog.  So find out what you dog is really telling you...and talk back!	2001-02-24
2091810:US	52793250	RQS7WBV2731P0	0399221301	314439538	Mirette on the High Wire	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Brava, Emily Arnold McCully	Bellini was once the greatest wire-walker in the world.  He had &quot;the nerves of an iceberg&quot;.  He had crossed Niagara Falls, stopping in the middle to cook an omelette.  He had crossed the Alps with baskets tied to his feet and even walked a flaming tightrope, blindfolded.  But now he has become afraid and &quot;once you have fear on the wire, if never leaves&quot;, so he has come to Madame Gateau's boarding house to rest.  Her daughter, Mirette is fascinated when she sees Bellini &quot;crossing the courtyard on air&quot;.  She begs him to teach her to wire-walk, but he refuses telling her that &quot;once you start, your feet are never happy again on the ground&quot;.  Finally Mirette can't stand it any longer and when Bellini is gone, begins practicing on the tightrope.  At first she falls often, but soon shows real talent and learns to run, lie down and even turn a somersault.  When Mirette finds out that Bellini was once world famous, she begs him to let her join his act.  It is then that he tells her that he can no longer perform...he's afraid.  Mirette is devastated and her disappointment is far worse for Bellini than his fear of the wire and so he decides to give it one more try and perform the next night across the rooftops of Paris.  As he begins to cross the wire, Bellini becomes paralyzed with fear and can't move.  But at that moment, as the crowd goes wild, little Mirette steps out onto the tightrope from the other side and begins walking toward Bellini her arms outstretched.  And, as he starts to walk again, the Great Bellini begins to smile..... Award winning author and illustrator, Emily Arnold McCully has written a wonderful story of friendship, determination and excitement as Mirette realizes her dream of performing on the high wire.  Her gentle text, is only outdone by her beautifully expressive watercolor artwork and kids will be entranced as they travel back in time to life in Paris at the turn of the century.  Mirette on the High Wire isa special story younsters 4-8 will want to read again and again and a MUST for all home libraries.	2001-02-23
2092757:US	52793250	R18SKVSUCMCUUK	0878685855	532088600	The Kissing Hand	Books	5	64	73	N	N	Perfect for all Pre-Schoolers	Poor little Chester, the racoon, it's time for him to go off to school and he doesn't want to leave his mother.  Mother knows that Chester will love school once he gets there.  There'll be new friends to meet, new toys to play with, new books to read and even a new swing to swing on.  So she tells him a special secret about the &quot;kissing hand&quot;.  She takes his little hand, spreads the fingers and places a kiss right in the middle of his palm.  Now when he feels lonely and needs a little love from home, he can press his hand against his cheek and know his mother's love will be with him.  And, before he scampers off to school, he gives his mother the kissing hand too, so that she won't miss him too much, while he's away..... Audrey Penn has written a sweet, endearing story to help little ones face those scary feelings on their first days of separation.  Her gentle text is complimented by expressive, detailed illustrations and together will let youngsters know that they're not alone out there in the world.  The Kissing Hand is the perfect bedtime story, pre-schoolers will want to read again and again and makes a wonderful addition to all home libraries.	2001-02-23
2092922:US	52793250	R3JVBPDXG3ZX1V	0452272971	999654006	A Very Long Engagement	Books	5	3	5	N	N	An Amazing,  Compelling Story	During the winter of 1917, five French soldiers, all with self-inflicted wounds, are brought to a trench at the front.  The army has decided to &quot;execute&quot; these men in a gruesome show, to discourage others from wounding themselves to get out of the war.  In the dead of night, with hands tied behind their backs, the five are thrown out of the trench into no-man's land between the French and German troops and left to die as the fighting begins.  Two years later, wheelchair bound, Mathilde Donnay, fiance of one of the doomed soldiers, receives a letter from a sergeant who was at the front and met her fiance that fateful night.  After visiting him and hearing his story, she is convinced that at least one of the men survived and is still alive somewhere in France, hopefully her fiance.  The very resourceful and tenacious Mathilde begins a relentless search to find out exactly what happened that night and after..... A Very Long Engagement is a magical, spellbinding novel that has it all...history, mystery, romance, intrigue and suspense...From the first page, you are pulled into the story and transported back in time to France during and after World War I.  The original, interesting characters are beautifully drawn;  the plot, intricate and compelling, full of twists, turns and surprises that will keep you off balance and turning pages to the end and the scenes, vivid and riveting.  But the real strength of this book is Sebastien Japrisot's eloquent writing and great attention to detail.  This is an amazing story told with insight, wisdom and sensitivity and a novel that shouldn't be missed.	2001-02-22
2095468:US	52793250	R3FS02KWAZCPLX	0786806095	610466405	Dumpy the Dumptruck	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A Sweet, Gentle Story	As the story begins, everyone is hard at work on Merryhill Farm...Bee-Bee the Backhoe, Trundle the Tractor.  Everyone, that is except Dumpy.  He's old, rusty and broken and stuck in the tall grass behind the barn.  There are birds and mice living in the stuffing of his leather seats and it looks like his work days at Merryhill Farm are over.  Farmer Barnes is planning on having him towed away to make room for a new and bigger barn and this makes his son, Charlie sad.  &quot;It's so sad to get rid of something you love just to make room for something new.&quot;  His grandfather, Pop-Up agrees and they hatch a plan to save Dumpy.  First they pull him out of the tall weeds and clean him up.  They scrub and polish, mend and paint, get him new tires and then go to work on the engine.  And in no time, Dumpy's better than ever, looking good and back to work, helping to raise the new barn..... Julie Andrews and her daughter, Emma Hamilton have written a charming, endearing story about love, teamwork and purpose that will delight youngsters aged 3-7.  Their gentle text, full of imagery and sound effects, is complimented by Tony Walton's colorful and expressive artwork and together, they have authored a story with the subtle message that big and new isn't always better.  Dumpy the Dump Truck is the first in what should be a wonderful new series, that you little ones are sure to enjoy.	2001-02-21
2096764:US	52793250	R279KXN2ZCVD5Y	0374384665	555031969	Wizzil	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What a Witch...	Wizzil, that horrible, nasty hag is bored and decides to entertain herself by making the Frimp family suffer.  She turns herself into a work glove and leaves herself right in the path of Grandpa, DeWitt Frimp.  He picks up the glove, puts it on and just can't believe his good fortune.  That is until strange things begin to happen.  When he tries to swat houseflies, he hits everything but the flies, destroying the house.  The rest of the family begins to suffer, too.  They develope unbearable itches that only get worse with scratching.  At dinner, meatballs begin exploding and water spurts like fountains, right out of their glasses.  The next morning, the whole house begins to shake and won't stop.  DeWitt, can't take it anymore.  He figures it must be the glove, that's when all the trouble started and throws it into the river.  Then a strange thing happens.  The glove turns back into Wizzil.  She sputters and thrashes and sinks.  DeWitt can't stand to watch her drown and jumps into the water to save her.  As he pulls the repulsive witch to shore, all that mean nastiness washes away and when Wizzil and DeWitt look into each others eyes, it's true love, happily ever after..... Award winning author, William Steig has written another terrific story full of silly characters, laugh-out-loud scenes and hip kid-speak language that will charm and delight youngsters.  Quentin Blake's expressive, busy cartoon-like illustrations compliment the story perfectly and together they've authored a picture book kids will want to read again and again.  Perfect for children 4-8, Wizzil is a winner.	2001-02-20
2097802:US	52793250	R1U1J20H19RW0E	0679890025	897938722	Magic Crystal? (Marvin Redpost 8, paper)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Marvin Redpost's a Winner!	It all started with Casey Happleton.  She was the most unusual girl Marvin Redpost had ever met.  She lived in an old fire station.  Actually, it had been remodeled and on the inside looked pretty much like a regular house, except for the fire pole right in the middle of the living room.  The pole went all the way up to the fourth floor and Casey was allowed to slide down on it.  And, she had a big secret...a magic crystal.  It used to be a normal rock, but had been struck by lightning in the storm the night before and now, if you made a wish on the magic crystal, it would come true.  Casey had already tested it out.  She had wished that Marvin would come over to her house and he had.  Marvin was pretty skeptical about the magic and so he decided to test it himself.  He wished that everyone would be in school the next day, no absences and the next day, everyone was in class.  Then Casey wished for homemade cookies for an afterschool snack and a plate was waiting for them when she and Marvin got to his house later that day.  Marvin figured the magic could be a coincidence and was pretty iffy.  Casey was beginning to get on his nerves, always babbling away about the magic crystal and wishes and he finally got so angry that he wished she'd just shut up.  And she did.  She stopped talking completely.  Now Marvin is starting to panic.  No sounds are coming out of Casey's mouth and he doesn't know what to do..... Louis Sachar has written a delightful, silly and endearing story youngsters 6-10 will really enjoy.  His writing is funny and true to life, his characters real people that kids can identify with and his scenes are vivid and at times laugh-out-loud funny.  A Magic Crystal is a wonderful addition to the Marvin Redpost series.	2001-02-19
2098639:US	52793250	R1WVPX32BPI38X	073882951X	126272885	Murder at Cleaver Stadium	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Great Read!	James Peters and his public relations firm partner, Woodrow Wilson (Woody) Cox are off on a &quot;work&quot; weekend of cocktail parties, college football and golf at Ben State University.  After the first night of heavy drinking and arguing with his partner, James decides to skip the game (he hates football, anyway) and the golf (he doesn't play the game).  He leaves Woody a message with the hotel switchboard and heads home.  Come Monday morning, Woody doesn't show up for work.  He's not at home and he's not at the hotel.  He never checked out and his car and clothes are still there.  Woody's disappearance becomes a police matter and it doesn't take them long to find his dead body.  Who saw him alive, last...his partner, James Peters and now he's the number one suspect in Woody's murder.  To make matters even worse, business is bad, James and his wife are separated, he wants her back and she now wants a divorce, a couple of tough guys are after him and he's not sure why and his new TV reporter girlfriend is demanding an exclusive on Woody's murder..... Douglas Lee Gibboney has written a funny, compelling, spectacular murder mystery that has it all.  The writing is eloquent and crisp and Mr Gibboney has a great ear for witty and irreverent dialogue.  The well paced plot and vivid scenes are full of twists, turns and surprises that keep you off balance and guessing to the very last page of the book.  A book, I might add, that you'll have to finish in one sitting.  Murder At Cleaver Stadium is a laugh-out-loud joy to read and it's too bad this book didn't get more press.  Do yourself a favor and get hold of a copy.  You won't be disappointed!	2001-02-18
2098917:US	52793250	R3590N8PBOIC50	073882951X	126272885	Murder at Cleaver Stadium	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Great Read!	James Peters and his public relations firm partner, Woodrow Wilson (Woody) Cox are off on a &quot;work&quot; weekend of cocktail parties, college football and golf at Ben State University.  After the first night of heavy drinking and arguing with his partner, James decides to skip the game (he hates football, anyway) and the golf (he doesn't play the game).  He leaves Woody a message with the hotel switchboard and heads home.  Come Monday morning, Woody doesn't show up for work.  He's not at home and he's not at the hotel.  He never checked out and his car and clothes are still there.  Woody's disappearance becomes a police matter and it doesn't take them long to find his dead body.  Who saw him alive, last...his partner, James Peters and now he's the number one suspect in Woody's murder.  To make matters even worse, business is bad, James and his wife are separated, he wants her back and she now wants a divorce, a couple of tough guys are after him and he's not sure why and his new TV reporter girlfriend is demanding an exclusive on Woody's murder..... Douglas Lee Gibboney has written a funny, compelling, spectacular murder mystery that has it all.  The writing is eloquent and crisp and Mr Gibboney has a great ear for witty and irreverent dialogue.  The well paced plot and vivid scenes are full of twists, turns and surprises that keep you off balance and guessing to the very last page of the book.  A book, I might add, that you'll have to finish in one sitting.  Murder At Cleaver Stadium is a laugh-out-loud joy to read and it's too bad this book didn't get more press.  Do yourself a favor and get hold of a copy.  You won't be disappointed!	2001-02-18
2100056:US	52793250	R111GKI9LM74OE	0963768867	954597855	Marshall, the Courthouse Mouse: A Tail of the U.S. Supreme Court	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Terrific!	Peter and Cheryl Barnes have opened the doors to the Supreme Court and taken some of the mystery out of the judicial process.  Told in rhyme and chock full of information, vocabulary and other fun facts, Chief Justice Marshall J. Mouse and his fellow mice justices show youngsters, step by step, how a law is challenged and makes it way through the court...from petition and oral arguments, to the work by court clerks and conferences by the justices, to handing down the final opinion.  Cheryl Barnes marvelous, detailed illustrations include the actual architecture and decor of several rooms inside the U.S. Supreme Court.  In addition, there are historical notes and other factual information about the Court, famous cases and several justices at the end of the book, to augment lessons and discussions.  Marshall, the Courthouse Mouse is a fascinating introduction to the Supreme Court, that will whet the appetite of kids 5 and up and have them asking for more.	2001-02-17
2101244:US	52793250	R3GUYGGD0AY739	0060289333	40766083	The Stray Dog: From a True Story by Reiko Sassa	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Love at First Sight	One Saturday a very nice family of four go to the park for a picnic and find a straggly stray pup.  They name him Willy and spend the day playing with him.  When it's time to pack up and go, the children want to take Willy home with them, but their parents tell them no, Willy probably belongs to someone else and they sadly leave him behind.  The next week is excruciatingly long and whole family spends it thinking about Willy.  When Saturday comes, they go back to the park on the pretense of another picnic, but are really hoping to find Willy.  Just when they think they'll never see him again, he appears, in the dog catcher's net.  Happily, the family claims him...Willy's found a new home and they've found a new pet.....  Award winner, Marc Simont has written a lovely, gentle, true to life story that will capture your family's heart.  His simple and straighforward text is only outdone by his very detailed and expressive artwork.  While looking at these illustrations, youngsters will actually feel the joy of finding this little furry friend, sense the sadness of leaving him behind and worry, right along with the family, about his welfare.  This is a terrific picture book, perfect for kids aged 3-7, your entire family can share and a wonderful addition to all home libraries.	2001-02-16
2102244:US	52793250	R1H9NO5TSK7LY1	0061044385	165617335	Remember Me, Irene	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Go Get 'em Irene....	Irene Kelly, reporter for the Las Piernas Express, is shocked to discover that a homeless drunk she met at a bus stop a few weeks before, was actually an acquaintance from her past, Lucas Monroe.  She had found the encounter unnerving because he had recognized her and kept telling her &quot;I'm not who I used to be.&quot;  And he was certainly right about that.  Twelve years ago, Lucas was her much admired college statistics instructor, a rising star and master's candidate in the sociology department, with a very bright future.  Over the past weeks, since their chance meeting, he's cleaned up and stopped drinking and now wants Irene's help with an important personal matter. But before they can meet, Lucas is found dead in an abandoned hotel of an apparent heart attack.  As Irene begins to investigate his fall from grace and death, she finds that twelve years ago he was involved with some of Las Piernas' most prominent civic leaders and she soon begins to uncover blackmail, corruption and possibly murder at the highest levels of city government..... Jan Burke is back with another great mystery and this series just keeps getting better and better.  Remember Me Irene is a well written page turner, with a suspenseful, plausible plot, witty, irreverent dialogue, compelling scenes and an ending that will take you by surprise.  If you are new to the series, do yourself a favor and start at the beginning with Goodnight Irene.  For those who are already fans, this latest installment doesn't disappoint.	2001-02-15
2105467:US	52793250	R1QQ0HKD5H0FO1	1570251991	896459258	The Quiltmaker's Gift	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Magical Story	There once lived an unhappy king who never smiled.  He owned all the prettiest things in the world, but still felt that he never had enough.  He found out that on top of the mountain, there lived a very old quiltmaker.  Her quilts were so beautiful that it was said she had magic in her fingers.  She never sold her quilts, but brought them down to the village at night and gave them away to the poor, needy and homeless.  The king insisted that the quiltmaker sew him a quilt, but she refused.  He ordered her to begin, but she told him that she would make him a quilt only if he gave away all his treasures.  He was too selfish to give anything away and tried to force the quiltmaker to sew for him by chaining her in a bear cave and stranding her on a small island.  But his plans didn't work.  Finally, he was so desperate to have one of her beautiful quilts that he agreed to her deal.  Each time he gave away a treasure, she promised she would sew another piece into his quilt.  It took the king an entire day to decide to give away something and then he only could part with a marble.  The little boy he gave it to smiled so happily that the king felt good and quickly went into the castle to get more items to give away.  As the days went by, the king gave everything away and a funny thing began to happen, he began to smile.  Just as she promised, the quiltmaker finished his quilt.  At first, the king did not want to take it.  &quot;I am not poor.  I may look poor, but in truth my heart is full to bursting, filled with memories of all the happiness I've given and received.  I'm the richest man I know.&quot;  But then he and the quiltmaker decide to work together, she sewing and he delivering quilts to all those in need..... This is a lovely, gentle story with a simple message of caring and sharing, all youngsters will understand.  As children watch this sad and dour king begin to smile and become happy, they will see that the real joy in life is in giving to and helping others.Jeff Brumbeau's enchanting tale is only outdown by Gail de Marcken's vibrant, expressive artwork.  Children will be entranced as they study these stunning, detailed illustrations that almost spill off the pages, looking for story clues and the hundreds of hidden quilting patterns.  Together, they have created an award winning picture book that is sure to become a classic in the future.  The Quiltmaker's Gift is a story your kids will want to read again and again and a MUST for all home libraries.	2001-02-12
2106041:US	52793250	R2WHP57CZEL15N	0439129524	998341042	Woodrow, The White House Mouse	Books	5	15	15	N	N	All About the Presidency	Peter and Cheryl Barnes have taken the stuffiness out of the office of the presidency and written a picture book full of solid information that's perfect for youngsters 4-8 years old.  Told in rhyme, Woodrow G. Washingtail's administration parallels that of his human counterpart.  From his inauguration to work in the oval office, from sending bills to congress and meeting with foreign heads of states, to hosting the Easter egg roll and artistic events in the East Room,  Woodrow explains how the president does his job.  Cheryl Barnes' charming, detailed illustrations show actual White House rooms,  furnishings and decor and Woodrow's first lady Bess is even wearing Mamie Eisenhower's gown, at the inauguration ball.  At the end of the book, there are historical notes for teachers and parents, about the presidency and White House, to help expand discussions and lessons.  Woodrow the White House Mouse is a delightful book, chock full of fun facts, history, and amusing descriptions that kids will find interesting and enjoy again and again.	2001-02-12
2108776:US	52793250	R2TES1ZDEYXWHO	0446602620	435728437	Blood Work	Books	5	65	67	N	N	Michael Connelly at his Best	Terry McCaleb, ex-FBI profiler and serial killer point man in Los Angeles, is spending his days recuperating after a heart transplant by restoring the boat he lives on.  Life consists of long daily walks, checking vital signs and taking anti-rejection medications.  That is, until he looks up one day to see Graciela Rivers coming aboard with a request.  She's read about his career and new heart in the paper and wants him to privately take on the murder case of her sister, Glory, who was shot in the head and killed during a convenience store robbery.  At first, McCaleb says no, he's not in the business anymore, doesn't need the stress and has to take care of himself.  But when she reveals that his new heart belonged to Glory, she was an organ donor, he rethinks his answer and decides to look into the case.  As he starts to look at the LAPD paperwork and crime scene tape, one thing becomes very clear, things are not as they seem.  The detectives working the case, missed some important clues and it appears that Glory wasn't just at the wrong place at the wrong time, but the actual target.  And as McCaleb digs deeper, he knows his new heart will never rest easy, unless he solves the crime and finds the killer..... Michael Connelly has done it again.  He's written a great mystery/thriller with enough twists, turns and false starts to keep you turning pages to the very end.  This is a book that has it all...a great, fast paced, suspenseful plot, well drawn, original characters and riveting scenes that come alive on the page.  This is a novel you'll definitely want to read in one sitting.  So turn off the phone and lock the door, Blood Work is about to keep you up all night!	2001-02-09
2111648:US	52793250	R32N77O0CI5KZD	0060271639	105320515	Rolie Polie Olie	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Rolie Polie Wonderful	Come spend the day with Rolie Polie Olie who lives with his Mom and Pop, sister Zowie and dog Spot on a special planet of curves and curls.  They get up in the morning, brush their teeth, recharge their heads, eat Rolie O's for breakfast and then dance the rumba dance in underpants.  They work together cleaning their teapot house and playing all day until poor Olie gets so overtired and wired, he can't calm down for bedtime and gets in trouble (maybe like someone you know).  But all turns out well and he gets his goodnight kiss on his Rolie Polie head.  Then it's time to sleep tight, so that they're all ready for another busy day..... William Joyce captures the essence of a busy pre-schooler in this gentle, rhyming, silly story.  But what makes this book so special are the computer enhanced illustrations, full of vibrant, expressive, detailed images that almost spill off the page.  Youngsters who love the Disney Channel, Rolie Polie Olie TV show will certainly enjoy this wonderful book.	2001-02-07
2114150:US	52793250	R38TPW58HYAUJP	0689829337	485774986	The Year Of Miss Agnes	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Wonderful!	In 1948, Fred (short for Frederika) and the other children of the Athabascan village on the Koyukuk River wait for the arrival of their new school teacher.  They've had many teachers over the years, in their little one room schoolhouse, but none lasted very long.  Life was just too hard.  Right from the start Miss Agnes Sutterfield is different.  She throws out all the old textbooks and puts up maps and timelines and pictures of the world.  She plays opera records and reads Robin Hood and Greek mythology to her students.  She teaches them creative writing and talks to them about growing up and becoming doctors or scientists.  Miss Agnes even insists that Fred's deaf sister Bokko come to school for the first time and orders books about signing and soon the entire class has learned to signed.  But her most important and lasting gift to the village, is the love of learning.  Just as everything seems so good, the school year comes to an end and Miss Agnes tells the class that she's homesick and going back to England..... Kirkpatrick Hill has crafted a gentle story, full of great characters and vivid scenes, that will draw youngsters in and transport them back to a very different time and culture in the Alaskan &quot;bush&quot;.  Miss Agnes came to this closed off village and its &quot;old ways&quot; and opened up her students lives to the great wide world, full of many  possibilities.  This is a wonderful story that's perfect for kids 9-12, and told with great insight, wisdom and humor.	2001-02-05
2117117:US	52793250	RWTJW0GDHQM05	043921033X	582489689	The Grapes Of Math	Books	5	23	24	N	N	More Math Please...	Greg Tang and Harry Briggs have taken the stuffiness and boredom out of math with their very creative and inventive book, The Grapes of Math:  Mind Stretching Math Riddles.  Word problems, told in rhyme with hints to help with solutions, combined with detailed, vibrant illustrations, challenge youngsters to look at old counting problems in new ways.  Instead of formulas and memorization, Tang and Briggs show kids to think in innovative ways.  Techniques include looking for patterns, regrouping numbers, combining multiples and subtracting first, in order to add.  With an answer key and easy to understand, common sense explanations at the end of the book, kids 6-10 won't even know they're solving math problems.  They'll think they're just having FUN!	2001-02-02
2117722:US	52793250	R269GBV5WBR7AY	0152021639	308236891	Miss Alaineus: A Vocabulary Disaster	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Vocabulary Made Fun!	Poor Sage (one who shows wisdom, experience, judgement) is home with the flu and gets the weekly vocabulary words and assignment from her friend Starr (who is not a luminous celestial object seen as a point of light in the sky).  Unfortunately, she does not quite get the last word down and that is the basis for her story.  Instead of writing miscellaneous (consisting of various kinds of qualities, a collection of unrelated objects), she writes Miss Alaineus, defining it as (the woman on green spaghetti boxes who hair is the color of uncooked pasta and turns into spaghetti at the ends).  Sage is devastated (wasted, ravaged) as the class, including  Mrs Page (who is not a single side of a printed sheet of paper usually found bound in a book) burst into laughter and she turns red (the color of embarrassment).  But as her mother explains, &quot;There's gold (a bright yellow precious metal of great value&quot;) in every mistake (something done, said, or thought in the wrong way).  And her mother was right.  Sage uses this embarrassing error and goes on, to her astonishment (great shock and amazement), to win the gold trophy at the Annual Vocabulary Parade..... Debra Frasier has taken the boredom out of spelling words and definitions and written a marvelous, inventive and creative story, kids 5 and up will just love.  Filled with hundreds of words and definitions, a terrific story line and detailed, expressive illustrations, youngsters will begin to understand and enjoy the power of words and how important it is to use them correctly.  And as Sage triumphs (a true success), kids will see that making a mistake is not the worst thing that can happen, in fact it sometimes leads to great success (a favorable or desired outcome of something attempted).  Miss Alaineus A Vocabulary Disaster is a special and unique book that should be included in every home library, and is sure to be a classic, in years to come.	2001-02-02
2117991:US	52793250	R2G31W3VNYJDPD	0892966955	500244491	Murder Me Now	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A Slice of Life in the 1920s	Nothing beat the bohemian life of New York's Greenwich Village in the '20s, with it's artists and writers, cabarets and speakeasies.  And at the center of it all is Olivia Brown, (Oliver, to her friends) poet, lover, gin enthusiast and sometime detective.  She's gone with friends up the Hudson River to the house of Kate and Fordy Vaude in Croton, for a weekend of lively conversation, bootleg gin and free love.  But from the start, all does not feel right and that feeling is confirmed when the Vaude's nanny, Adele Zimmer is found murdered, hanged with a man's leather belt from a snowy tree branch.  No one knows anything about this mysterious, newly employed nanny.  As Oliver and her friend, private detective Harry Melville begin their investigation, they find nothing is as it seems and the two keep coming up with many more questions than answers.  And, as they work their way through the case, secrets and lies start popping up all over Greenwich Village..... Annette Meyers has written a charming whodunit, full of twists, turns and surprises that will keep readers turning pages to the end.  Her writing is crisp, smart  and witty and her characters, original and interesting.  But it's her very visual scenes that set you right down in the middle of prohibition-era, bohemian life, that makes this novel such fun to read.  Murder Me Now is a delightful, fast read...you really can't go wrong with this book.	2001-02-02
2119207:US	52793250	R32NHN2V83MT0N	0679893091	847824581	The Secret Footprints	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An Enchanting Tale	There once lived a secret tribe of very beautiful creatures called ciguapas, underwater in &quot;cool blue caves hung with seashells and seaweed&quot;.  They were terribly afraid of humans and came out on land only at night to hunt for food.  They were convinced that if humans saw them, they would be captured, put in cages, studied by doctors and made to take baths and do laundry.  They had one special attribute that kept them safe from humans.  Their feet were backwards and when they walked, pointed in the opposite direction.  Because of this, no human had ever been able to follow their footprints and their secret existence had remained safe.  That is until one young ciguapa, named Guapa, became too curious and hunted before dark, meeting a surprisingly kind human family.  And this curiousity almost led to the tribe's discovery..... Julia Alvarez retells a wonderful folk tale, that will charm and delight children of all ages.  Her language, so full of imagery and magic, lets you feel the cool water and hot sun and hear the palms swaying in the breeze and the birds singing their favorite songs.  Fabian Negrin's captivating, vibrant artwork compliments the story perfectly and takes you away to this very lush tropical island.  The Secret Footprints is an enchanting tale, told by an accomplished storyteller and will make a wonderful addition to all home libraries.	2001-02-01
2119707:US	52793250	RXTHGCP73EWUL	0688152201	677640090	Roses Are Pink, Your Feet Really Stink	Books	5	91	94	N	N	Valentine's Day with a Message	Gilbert has a real dilemma.  He's writing poems on his Valentine cards, for his classmates, but doesn't want to write something nice to Lewis and Margaret.  Lewis tweaked his nose and made it red and Margaret said mean things about him in front of the class.  So he decides to write each an unkind poem and instead of signing his own name, since he's afraid they'll be angry, he signs Lewis's name to Margaret's card and Margaret's name to Lewis's Valentine.  It doesn't take long before Margaret and Lewis figure out who really gave them these mean cards and they, along with the rest of the class won't have anything to do with Gilbert.  First he has to eat lunch all alone, no one will sit with him and at then at recess, no one will play with him.  As soon as he gets back to class, Gilbert gets to work making new cards for Lewis and Margaret and apologizing for his unkindness.  As the class party begins all is forgiven and Lewis, Margaret and Gilbert are friends again..... Diane De Groat has written a simple, charming story with a powerful message about the importance of second chances, that youngsters 4-8 will easily understand.  Her gentle text and wonderful watercolor illustrations really capture the small hurts and slights kids experience and her positive, uplifting ending and sensible solution should open good discussions at home and at school.	2001-01-31
2121987:US	52793250	R117PBDDYZ7O7J	0899193137	406041772	The Valentine Bears	Books	5	28	28	N	N	A Book of Love	On October 14th, Mrs Bear set her alarm clock and she and Mr Bear snuggled in for their long winter's nap.  Now as the alarm goes off on February 14th, Mrs Bear gets up and begins preparations for a very special day.  This will be the first time that the Bears have celebrated Valentine's Day and have not been hibernating.  She makes a Valentine's banner and hangs it on the cave wall, get's out the two cards she made for Mr Bear last summer, goes outside and digs up the honey and crispy critters (Mr Bear's favorites) and washes up for the big day.  When everything is ready, Mrs Bear wakes her husband.  It takes him a long time to awaken, but when he does, Mr Bear has a big surprise for his wife too, chocolate covered ants (her favorite).  Then they spend the day together, reading the banner and cards and eating their special treats and as night falls, curl up and go back to sleep until spring.  Eve Bunting has written a very simple and gentle story, full of warmth, that's perfect for kids 3-7.  Jan Brett's detailed and expressive illustrations add just the right touch and together they show your little ones what loving and caring is all about.  The Valentine Bears is the perfect way to tell everyone you love, Happy Valentine's Day.	2001-01-30
2122949:US	52793250	R7Z3GXGZ2LHVI	0316154075	347427189	A Darkness More Than Night	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Connelly is Back and Better than Ever...	Jaye Winston, detective with the L.A. Sheriff's office has hit a brick wall on a particularly gruesome and grisly murder case, involving a strangled, hog tied drunk with a penchant for hurting prostitutes, so she visits an old friend and collegue, Terry McCaleb, now retired from the FBI's profiling unit and running fishing charters off Catalina Island.  Her hope is that he will &quot;volunteer&quot; to go through the crime scene video and murder book and pick up on something that she's missed.  McCaleb obliges and soon is hooked, running down leads and making a startling discovery.  At the same time, LAPD detective Harry Bosch is up to his ears in a murder case of his own.  Movie director, David Storey, is on trial for the brutal murder of a would-be actress and then manipulating the scene so that it looked like an accidental suicide.  Bosch is not only the lead detective on the case, but also the prosecution's star witness and is determined to put this guy away and see justice done.  As these two separate cases move forward, the lines begin to blur and overlap and one name keeps coming to the top of the list, Harry Bosch..... Michael Connelly has brought back favorite characters from several previous novels and written a tense and gripping, fast paced mystery/thriller.  A Darkness More Than Night has it all...interesting and complex characters with strong voices, a compelling and suspenseful plot with intriguing, riveting scenes and enough twists, turns and false starts to keep you off balance and turning pages to the end.  Don't start reading this novel unless you have the time to finish it in one sitting, because you won't be able to put it down.  Michael Connelly is back and better than ever!	2001-01-29
2127240:US	52793250	RAUWOUGYAOV7W	0439104319	34376671	How Are You Peeling?	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Amazing	Saxton Freymann and Joost Elffers are playing with their food and we are the lucky recipients of their charming and amusing latest effort, How Are You Peeling?  Foods With Moods.  The simple rhyming text discussing emotions we all feel at times...happy, sad, grumpy or worried, shy, insecure, amused or confused...to name a few, compliments the amazing fruit and vegetable sculptures.  It's hard to believe an onion, kiwi, radish or mushroom (to name but a few) could express such emotions, but they do.  A vibrant, visual treat the entire family will enjoy reading and discussing, this is a book that should find its way onto everyone's bookshelf!	2001-01-25
2128734:US	52793250	RHDCCALBSLD12	043916964X	179946398	Jubal's Wish	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Charming!	Jubal the bullfrog is so happy on this bright and sunny day, that his feet barely touch the ground as he skips along with his picnic basket.  In time, he meets up with two of his neighbors, Gerdy, the toad and Captain Dalbert, the lizard.  Both are tired, angry, overworked and depressed.  It makes Jubal sad that his friends are so miserable on this beautiful day and so he wishes they could be as happy as he is.  With that, a wizard appears and gives him a twinkling wishing star....&quot;Dreams and wishes, wishes and dreams.  Sometimes they work, and sometimes they don't.  You never know how they'll turn out in the end.&quot;  And as Jubal watches, his wish comes true in a very unusal and special way..... Audrey and Don Woods have done it again, writing a simple, gentle story of generosity, caring and love.  Their warm and expressive text is only outdone by their vibrant, larger than life artwork, that will entrance youngsters as it almost spills off the page.  Together, they have produced a charming fairy tale that's perfect for 3-7 year olds.  Jubal's Wish, with it's endearing hero, will delight children of all ages and is a wonderful addition to all bookshelves.	2001-01-24
2129704:US	52793250	R2K6XK0RFNKFXL	0060281111	820947999	Fishing in the Air	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Beautiful Story...Beautiful Artwork	A young boy and his dad get up very early one morning while the sky is still blue black.  They make sandwiches, dig worms, pack the car and set off on their first fishing trip.  As his father tells him, &quot;We're going on a journey to a secret place.  We'll catch the air!  We'll catch the breeze!&quot;  But what they really catch are memories and the special bond between father and son..... Sharon Creech's first picture book is a beautifully written story full of imagery and magic.  Her powerful writing comes alive on the page.  You can actually feel the &quot;bubble of breeze&quot;, see the &quot;sliver of sky and white white cloud&quot; and feel the &quot;clear cool river that ripples over stones&quot;.  Christopher Raschka's colorful, busy illustrations compliment the story perfectly and capture your imagination as they swirl around the page.  This is a gentle, simple, moving story, perfect for youngsters 4-8, that will bring generations closer together and is sure to become a classic in the years ahead.	2001-01-23
2131586:US	52793250	R3HB62BSF8SXI6	031226626X	792709116	Street Level	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The Start of a Great Series	Isaac Pike, gay millionaire from Minnesota, is in a real bind.  Sperm he deposited at a fertility clinic has not only been stolen but implanted into a low-life, trailer park nude dancer and if he ever wants to see his soon to be delivered child, he's going to have to pay up big time.  The girl, Crystal Gail, was last seen in Orlando Florida, so Pike hires loose cannon private detective, Duncan Sloan, to sort out this mess and find the girl.  Unfortunately, Sloan isn't the only person looking for Crystal, but he's the only one who wants to find and keep her alive.  As the body count begins to grow exponentially and Sloan zeroes in on Crystal's whereabouts, he puts his plan in action and hopes they all come out of this alive..... Bob Truluck has written a spare, gritty and often witty novel full of graphic language and violence that's not for the faint of heart.  His wise-cracking, hard-boiled detective, Duncan Sloan is an original, well drawn with a strong irreverent voice.  This is a mystery/thriller that has it all...tight, fast paced plot, great characters and vivid, riveting scenes you won't soon forget.  All in all a terrific debut you'll have to read in one sitting and a P.I. you'll look forward to following for many years to come.	2001-01-22
2133810:US	52793250	R440HMEOFPWAM	0689820909	623493324	The Keeping Quilt	Books	5	29	32	N	N	A Treasure...	When Great Gramma Anna left Russia to come to New York City, she had only the clothes on her back.  Soon she had outgrown her dress and babushka and her mother used these and other family member's old clothes to make a colorful quilt.  &quot;It will be like having the family in backhome Russia dance around us at night.&quot;  As author Patricia Polacco explains, this quilt tells the story of her family from generation to generation, and has been present at all their life events, births, deaths, weddings and other special family celebrations.  It is the glue that binds her family together.  Her gentle, poignant, simple text is only outdone by the beautiful brown and white illustrations, reminiscent of old photographs with only the quilt highlighted in vibrant color as it wraps babies, covers tables, is used as a wedding huppa...  The Keeping Quilt is a very special history book about love and faith and our connections to each other, told with insight and wisdom.	2001-01-20
2135061:US	52793250	R1II4XQB6NLOPK	0395968674	740934790	Henry Hikes to Fitchburg	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Terrific!	Henry and his friend (two nice looking bears) are going to Fitchburg, thirty miles away, to see the country.  Henry decides to walk, while his friend decides to work and earn money for a train ticket.  &quot;Let's see who gets there first&quot;, his friend challenges.  Off Henry goes on his adventure.  He picks flowers to save and press into books, his friend cleans out Mrs Thoreau's chicken house.  He walks along a stone wall and climbs trees, his friend moves Mr Emerson's bookcases.  Henry makes a raft and paddles up a river, finds a bird nest and a honey tree, his friend pulls Mr Hawthorne's weeds.  At the end of the day, Henry's friend buys his ticket and travels on a crowded train to Fitchburg where they meet up.  &quot;The train was faster&quot;, he says.  &quot;I know, I stopped for blackberries&quot;, says Henry..... Inspired by a passage from Walden, Donald Johnson has written and illustrated a clever, charming and very visual story about two different approaches to life.  As your youngsters turn pages and watch how these two friends spend their day, they can decide who's trip to Fitchburg is more fun, interesting and worthwhile...Henry who savors the journey or his friend who just wants to get there as quickly as possible.  The author includes a note at the end about Henry David Thoreau and his friends (Emerson and Hawthorne) and the passage from Walden that was the basis for this wonderful book.  This is a special story, perfect for kids 4-8, that your kids will want to read again and again and should lead to many interesting family discussions.	2001-01-19
2135989:US	52793250	R1ZZVEZWMOVZJ0	0385500300	943915963	The Brand New Kid	Books	5	6	10	N	N	A Winner!	Ellie McSnelly and Carrie O'Toole find lots of fun and surprises in second grade, the first of which is a brand new kid.  He's different, very blond and blue-eyed with a funny accent and funnier name, Lazlo S Gasky.  Instead of welcoming him to his new school and class, the kids in second grade tease and taunt Lazlo, isolating and ostracizing him.  That is, until Ellie sees Lazlo's mother walking out of school one day, looking very worried and sad.  At that moment she begins to understand what it's been like for Lazlo, to be &quot;the strange, new kid&quot; and decides to reach out to him.  They play together and as she tells her friends the next day, Lazlo's not so different, we just didn't get to know him.  He's really just like us..... Katie Couric has written a delightful, thoughtful story of tolerance that should open lots of discussions at home and in school about not belonging and feeling scared and lonely.  Though her writing at times is awkward and her rhymes forced, the heartwarming and important message of this book far outweighs its flaws.  Margorie Priceman's charming, expressive illustrations really capture the essence of the story and together, these two let youngsters know in a gentle, yet powerful way that our differences are what make us interesting and we all have a lot more in common than we might think at first glance.  The trick is to get to know each other.	2001-01-18
2139437:US	52793250	R3MVWM84OB4YAG	0380722798	587236396	Goodnight, Irene	Books	5	51	52	N	N	Irene's a Winner!	Back in 1955, a young woman was found murdered on the beach in Las Piernas, California.  Her face was destroyed and her hands and feet cut off so that she couldn't be identified.  The police dubbed her Hannah and were never able to close the case.  Newspaperman, O'Connor wrote the original stories back then and has never given up on finding the identity of this Jane Doe.  Every year, on the anniversary of her murder, he writes his now famous &quot;Hannah&quot; column.  But not this year.  Several days before his annual article will come out, O'Connor is killed on his front porch by a package bomb.  Now his dearest friend and protege, Irene Kelly, is on a mission to find out why.  As she and the police begin to investigate, going back over O'Connor's notes and files, it seems he was just about ready to break this very old case wide open and pretty soon Irene finds out first hand that there are people who will stop at nothing to keep those secrets buried forever..... Jan Burke has written a terrific, well paced debut mystery, easily read in one sitting, full of vivid scenes and enough twists and turns to keep you off balance and guessing to the end.  Her writing is down to earth, her characters, real and her dialogue, very true to life.  This is the start of a terrific, fun series and once you've met Irene, you'll want to read them all.	2001-01-15
2142275:US	52793250	R38N958APKYIGM	0446609730	861878453	Shotgun (87th Precinct Mysteries)	Books	5	40	42	N	N	McBain at his Best	The 87th Precinct in the fictional city of Isola is hopping...two murders in one day.  The first, a married couple found dead in their apartment, unrecognizeable, two shotgun blasts to the face of each.  The second, a middle-aged woman found on her kitchen floor with a bread knife sticking out of her chest.  The hard-working detectives of the 87th tenaciously follow leads and clues as they circle closer and closer to the truth.....Shotgun is Ed McBain at his best and nobody does it better.  This is a police procedural that has it all...great memorable characters, tight, compelling plot, spare, gritty writing and unrivaled, true to life dialogue.  Easily read in one sitting, the story pulls you in from page one and doesn't let go.  And after finishing Shotgun, it's easy to see why McBain is considered &quot;the best crime writer in the business.&quot;	2001-01-12
2143505:US	52793250	R3MBR5JTXK631R	1841480673	22602471	The Boy Who Stuck Out His Tongue: A Yiddish Folk Tale	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Charming Folk Tale	The son of the peddler's widow is a lazy and unhelpful boy.  When his mother calls him in from playing in the snow to help her light a fire in the stove, he sticks out his tongue and runs away from her.  As she chases him, he trips and falls in the deep snow and his tongue sticks to a cold iron fence.  The poor boy is stuck and his mother doesn't know how to set him free.  She runs into the village and enlists the help of first the cobbler, then the butcher, the baker and even the cook.  As a crowd grows, no one in the village can figure out a way to free her son.  The boy, stuck to the fence begins to feel a little guilty and starts to cry.  All these good townspeople care about what happens to him and all he has ever done is refuse to help them when they've asked.  Soon a traveling blacksmith comes along and solves the problem and the boy is free, promising to be helpful whenever the villagers need him..... Edith Tarbescu has written an amusing folk tale that will delight and charm youngsters with it's silly humor and subtle wisdom.  Judith Christine Mills  beautiful, expressive and detailed artwork adds just the right touch and compliments the story perfectly.  Together they have produced a warm and wonderful story your kids will want to read again and again.  Perfect for children 3-8, The Boy Who Stuck Out His Tongue is a great addition to all home libraries.	2001-01-12
2145434:US	52793250	R2HEAUKJTNBWYM	0671040596	666522577	Deviant Ways	Books	5	7	8	N	N	One of the Best Books of 2000	There's a serial killer, dubbed the Sandman, loose in the seaside towns, north of Boston.  He's killing whole families at a time, setting sophisticated bombs to blow up his crime scenes  and as the violence escalates, slaughtering everyone who gets in his way.  Jack Casey, a former FBI profiler, turned police detective is just starting to get his life back on track.  Seven years ago, his world was almost destroyed by another psychopath, who targeted Jack and made him watch as he killed his pregnant wife.  Called into this case, Jack, using his profiling skills and calling on all his old resources, races against time to find out what's motivating the Sandman.  And what he uncovers, shakes the very foundations of the system of law and order he's always believed in.  Now as he circles closer and closer to the truth, he begins to understand that the Sandman wants him in the middle of this case for a reason and his goal is to make Jack Casey suffer..... Chris Mooney's debut novel is a tense, compelling thriller that will put you on the edge of your seat and keep you there to the very last page of the book.  This is a story that has it all...a tight plot full of terrifying, riveting scenes, well drawn, original characters, great, vivid writing and a stunning climax that will knock your socks off.  Deviant Ways is so suspenseful and well written, you won't be able to put it down, but you also won't want to be alone in the house reading, especially at night.  This is a book that should have been on everyone's best seller's lists and a MUST for mystery/thriller fans.	2001-01-10
2153486:US	52793250	RC5GRM99W5694	0940112027	451293655	Grandma's Scrapbook	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Lovely, Sensitive Story	Grandma's Scrapbook is the companion book to Josephine Nobisso's Grandpa Loved.  In this gentle, tender story, a girl looks back on all the wonderful summers she spent with her grandmother.  Grandma has made remembering easy, because she kept a special scrapbook of their times together...&quot;Grandma started that scrapbook because I was once too young to remember, and because one day, I may get too old to remember.&quot;  Maureen Hyde's beautiful, detailed artwork enhances the story with just the right expressive touch.  And, even though we find out that Grandma has died at the end of the book, the story is not maudlin, but uplifting and told with honesty, wisdom and much love.	2001-01-04
2156104:US	52793250	R14MQCTQZ8OKW8	0399146644	864794808	L.A. Dead (Stone Barrington)	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Unfortunately...Stone Barrington is Back	Stone Barrington, that very rich hunk of an ex-cop turned lawyer is in Venice and finally getting married to Mafioso kingpin Eduardo Bianchi's daughter, Dolce.  As part one of the marriage rites, the civil ceremony ends, but before the religious service takes place, Stone receives news that his old girlfriend, Arrington is in big trouble and needs his help.  It seems her Hollywood leading man husband, Vance Calder has been shot and killed in an apparent robbery at their Beverly Hills home while Arrington was taking a bath.  Everything points to her as the murderer and she's about to be arrested.  Who does she call...Stone, of course.  He drops everything, leaving Dolce at the proverbial altar and flies immediately to Los Angeles to save his poor ex-damsel in distress.....Stuart Wood's latest is a mindless, lightweight mystery, full of cliches and caricatures of the Hollywood rich and famous.  All the women are wealthy, beautiful, always walking around naked and continually throwing themselves at the ever desireable Stone and he never misses a chance to bed each and every one of them.  With all the sex and bed jumping and descriptions of the expensive and decadent life styles, there's hardly time to develope the actual story line.  The plot has all the depth, realism and predictability of a soap opera, the writing is uninspired and the characters are one dimensional cartoons.  A good book to read for a couple of hours if you're snowed in or stuck at the airport, L.A. Dead is a book that doesn't take a lot of deep thinking.	2001-01-02
2159956:US	52793250	RVXJSUAUVA6MZ	0940112019	473366358	Grandpa Loved	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Wonderful!	As a boy looks back on the times he spent with his grandfather, he discovers that what grandpa loved are the things he now loves too...the beach, the woods, the city and most of all family and friends.  Josephine Nobisso has written a very special, gentle and sensitive story that could easily be maudlin, but instead is uplifting and full of wisdom, as this youngster begins to understand that even though grandpa has died, he's not really gone and will always be there in memories, places and people he loved so much.  Maureen Hyde's expressive artwork enhances this simple and straightforward story and together the winning combination of Nobisso and Hyde help children start to understand the circle of life.  A lovely book and a sure classic in years to come, Grandpa Loved is a wonderful addition to all bookshelves.	2000-12-30
2165596:US	52793250	R2AGQ0ERQGHKOR	0940112035	647821964	Shh! The Whale Is Smiling	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Lovely Bedtime Story	As the wind begins to blow upon a sleeping house, a little girl lights a candle and travels down the hall to her little brother's room to comfort him during the storm.  She quietly holds him and sends them both on a journey to the sea to meet and swim with a whale.  And as her story delights and distracts him from the storm, he relaxes and falls back to sleep, knowing he's not alone..... Josephine Nobisso has written a very gentle and expressive picture book, told in soft, vivid language, that will charm and calm all pre-schoolers.  While listening to the story, Maureen Hyde's beautiful and very detailed artwork will entrance youngsters as their own imaginations take them on this wonderful adventure with an amazing sea creature.  Shh!  The Whale is Smiling is the perfect bedtime story your little ones will want to hear night after night and a great addition to all home libraries.	2000-12-25
2166645:US	52793250	R3L8793BVCUTIL	0553286447	287368783	Stalking the Angel (Elvis Cole, Book 2)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Stalking the Angel.....A Winner	Hard-boiled and always wisecracking private detective, Elvis Cole and his ever silent partner, Joe Pike are back and better than ever in Stalking the Angel.  This time out, he's hired by  hotel magnate, Bradley Warren, to find the Hagakure, a priceless Japanese manuscript, that's been stolen from Warren's personal safe in his Holmby Hills mansion.  As he and Pike begin their investigation,  Warren's daughter is first threatened and then kidnapped from right under their noses and Elvis and Joe are now on a mission to find both the manuscript and the girl, unharmed..... Robert Crais has done it again!  Stalking the Angel is a fast paced mystery/thriller, you'll have to finish in one sitting.  This is a story that has it all...writing that's smart and spare, with never a wasted word;  crisp, irreverent dialogue and suspenseful, riveting scenes.  And, as Pike and Cole circle closer and closer to the truth, you'll find yourself on the edge of your seat, turning pages to the story's shocking and satisfying conclusion.  Stalking the Angel is a book mystery fans shouldn't miss.	2000-12-23
2170699:US	52793250	R9CO798IA6ON0	0060198338	588826635	Hit List	Books	5	5	9	N	N	This Book Should be on Everyone's &quot;Hit List&quot;	John Keller is just your average business man.  He's single, dates, eats out alot, watches TV, takes in a movie or browses through stores and galleries and collects stamps for a hobby.  Every so often, he gets a call from Dot, his dispatcher and heads out on a job.  His line of work...contract killer...he kills total strangers for a fee and no one else in the world, except Dot, knows what he does for a living.  Life is good until he goes to Louisville, Kentucky for a simple hit and gets this funny feeling that everything is not quite right, just a little off.  That feeling is confirmed, when a couple are shot and killed in the motel room he's just vacated.  It gets so strong, in fact, that he decides to see an astrologer and have his chart read.  She tells him that he's going to have a rough year.  He has an enemy out there who wants him dead.....So begins Hit List, Lawrence Block's latest mystery/thriller.  This is a well paced, compelling novel full of vivid scenes, droll humor and enough twists, turns and surprises, to keep you turning pages to the end.  Mr Block's writing is smart, crisp and down to earth, with dialogue that's so true to life, it will, at times, have you laughing out loud.  To his credit, Keller is such a likeable, well drawn and defined character, that even though he's a hit man, you'll be rooting for him to the end.  So tag along with Keller, as jobs start to go wrong and he realizes that the hit man is now on somebody's hit list.  You won't be disappointed.	2000-12-19
2173513:US	52793250	R2XAOPDG4A8AGO	0743213165	907944504	Candyland: A Novel In Two Parts	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A Powerful Story in the Hands of a Master	Candlyland, is a story told in two parts by Evan Hunter and Ed McBain.  In Part I, Benjamin Thorpe, a married father and grandfather and successful Los Angeles architect is in New York City overnight on business.  What his family and associates don't know, is that he is a sex addict.  Now alone and at loose ends in Manhattan, he seeks female companionship, first in the hotel bar, then on the phone and finally at a &quot;massage parlor&quot;.  His trip to the bordello ends badly and we last see him, beaten and bloody, hailing a taxi.  As Part II opens, we find police  detectives working on the homicide of a call girl, found beaten, strangled and brutally raped.  As they begin gathering information, they find she had some trouble last night with a John and that John turns out to be Benjamin Thorpe....As many know and as the jacket flap reveals, Evan Hunter and Ed McBain are the same author.  In Candyland, he begins Part I as Evan Hunter, drawing you into the story and building the suspense. Then he smoothly turns the plot over to Ed McBain in Part II, as the case is investigated and the tension increases.  Together, these two voices create a compelling, riveting novel, full of strong characters, powerful scenes and a shocking, unexpected twist at the end. His writing is crisp, spare and gritty, with an unrivaled ear for dialogue.  Candyland is Evan Hunter and Ed McBain at their very best.  This is a well written, tense page turner, easily read in one sitting and a book mystery/suspense thriller fans shouldn't miss.	2000-12-17
2175443:US	52793250	R33J5HWRXPUTEY	0618073892	568042428	Whiteblack the Penguin Sees the World	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Treasure	Whiteblack the Penguin, Chief Storyteller on W-O-N-S, the Penguinland radio station has run out of stories.  So he decides to take a vacation and see some of the world, because &quot;travelers always have lots of stories.&quot;  Off he goes in a little boat, on the adventure of a lifetime.  And what adventures he has.  First his boat sinks after hitting an iceberg.  Then, after being rescued by a large cruiser, he decides to take a nap in one of their cannons and is accidently shot out the next morning.  After soaring through the air for miles, he lands in the water and swims to shore where he meets ostriches, crosses the desert on a camel, rides in an airplane and unfortunately, falls out over the ocean.  Each time he faces adversity and the unknown,  he happily looks at the new situation as a learning experience and wonderful tale to share.  At last he is rescued by a fishing boat and finally makes his way back home to a hero's welcome with lots of new stories for his radio show.....  Who would have thought that after their deaths, an unpublished, completed manuscript, by Margret and H.A. Rey, would be found?  This delightful story about a brave and always optimistic little penguin, will charm and amuse young children, just as their Curious George books have done all these many years.  Mr Rey's wonderful and expressive watercolor illustrations, compliment his wife's text perfectly and together, they've created a treasure that's sure to become a classic.  Whiteblack the Penguin is a timeless, enchanting story that your kids will want to read over and over again and a MUST for all home libraries.	2000-12-15
2177326:US	52793250	R3N6V4KOAODZ05	0525464387	673784918	The Amazing Pop-Up Geography  Book (Amazing Pop-Ups)	Books	5	62	63	N	N	Geography Made Fun	Do you know what the deepest lake in the world is or where it's located?  How about biggest island or the highest volcano?  Do you know which country has the most people or where the Taj Mahal is located?  It's easy to find out the answers to these questions and much, much more in The Amazing Pop-Up Geography Book.  Kate Petty and Jennie Maizels have taken a subject considered dull and made it FUN!  They've collected hundreds of interesting facts about our planet and the people that live here and put them in a hands-on book that's perfect for kids 8-12.  From our place in the solar system to the continents and countries, from rivers, oceans, mountains and volcanoes, to hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes and understanding time and distance, kids can lift flaps, turn wheels, pull tabs and watch the earth come alive in their hands.  This is a wonderful three dimensional book that will keep your youngsters entertained and learning for hours at a time as they find out that our planet is a pretty interesting place.	2000-12-13
2178124:US	52793250	RHROM81SZTMI2	0316693251	319187092	Roses Are Red (Alex Cross)	Books	2	24	30	N	N	Disappointing	A new serial killer is loose in the Washington D.C. area, robbing banks and killing both bank employees and their families.  He calls himself the Mastermind and expects his very precise instructions to be followed exactly.  There's no room for even the smallest mistake without suffering dire consequences.  Detective Alex Cross along with his partner, John Sampson and newcomer, FBI agent Betsey Cavalierre are on the case.  But even though they seem to be getting closer and closer to their target, are always at least one step behind following false leads and hitting dead ends.  This is a book with a great premise and great villain, but James Patterson just doesn't deliver.  His short chapters (sometimes only two or three paragraphs) and choppy writing style detract from what should be a tense and suspenseful story line.  Instead, the plot jumps around too much and you're never left on the edge of your seat.  His secondary story lines, about all the problems in Alex's personal life, are distracting and add nothing to the story.  The characters are all one dimensional and the plot, which should be tight and compelling, has all the depth of a movie of the week.  But my biggest problem with this book is that the Mastermind has no motivation for the crimes he's committing.  We never get into his head, know nothing about him and why he's become this heinous serial killer.  At the end of the novel, we're left with no real conclusion or solution, just the idea that there's a sequel being written.  Roses are Red is a disappointing read with an unsatisfying ending that leaves you hanging, but not wanting more. Skip this one, there are too many really good thrillers out there to read!	2000-12-13
2180461:US	52793250	R9DMQSXGYDKUC	0689833407	936279339	The Remarkable Farkle Mcbride	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Music Made Wonderful	Farkle McBride is definitely a remarkable little guy.  He could play the violin at three.  But was bored with violin playing at four.  At five he discovered the flute.  But at six decided it was not for him.  When Farkle was seven, he took up the trombone, but then gave it up too.  Next he tried percussion, but decided that was not quite right for him either.  After thinking and thinking he realized that his very favorite sound was all the different instruments playing together...the orchestra.  And so when the conductor gets sick, Maestro Farkle McBride steps in, finding what he really likes to do most at last.  John Lithgow as written a terrific children's book, full of rhythm, rhyme and wonderful sound effects.  His text is complimented by C.F. Payne's very expressive and detailed, larger than life illustrations.   This is a delightful story that will charm and amuse all youngsters aged 4-8 and is a wonderful introduction to both musical instruments and the orchestra.  The Remarkable Farkle McBride is a winner and a wonderful addition to all home libraries.	2000-12-11
2181057:US	52793250	R3DXZDW98948LS	0743201485	62211306	The Will	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Terrific!	Henry Matthews--ambitious up-and-comer at a large, prestigious Chicago law firm--receives an unexpected call from his hometown of Council Grove, Kansas. The richest man in town, Tyler Crandall, has died, and Henry must go home and execute his will. The Crandalls pretty much own Council Grove, and all assume that the estate will pass to Roger, Tyler's son, and things will continue on as they always have. But to everyone's shock and surprise, Tyler Crandall leaves everything to the Birdman, a crazy, delusional homeless man who has lived in the town park for the last twenty-five years. Now, as the will is contested by the Crandall family, Henry is determined to find out what the connection is between Tyler and the Birdman and why he left him his fortune. And, as he digs into the past, Henry begins to uncover long-hidden secrets and truths that will change this small community forever. Reed Arvin has written a terrific mystery/legal thriller that will put you on the edge of your seat and keep you turning pages to the very end. This novel has it all: a suspenseful, compelling storyline, great characters with strong voices, riveting scenes, a climax that will knock your socks off, and a very satisfying ending. Mr Arvin's writing is true to life, crisp and spare, with a real ear for dialogue. So turn off the phone and lock the door, &quot;The Will&quot; is a winner and a book you will have to read in one sitting.	2000-12-10
2184970:US	52793250	R28UDH6FLCQ81J	0439110149	658194699	One Lonely Seahorse	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Visual Feast	Saxton Freymann and Joost Elffers have been playing with their food again and luckily for us, have come up with a delightful little counting and rhyming story about a lonely little sea horse.  As you turn each page, she encounters first two crabs, then three puffer fish, four lobsters, five turtles and on and on until we reach a school of ten angelfish.  But what makes this book so unusual, special and unique are the creative, bold and colorful illustrations.  Each sea creature, including the undersea backgrounds are constructed of fruits and vegetables.  Those two little friendly crabs are really shitake mushrooms.  The puffer fish, horned melons, the lobsters, ginger, the turtles, pineapples, the angelfish, red and yellow peppers and the little sea horse herself, chioggia beets.  All foods used are pictured and labeled on the last page and you and your children will have additional fun finding all the imaginative ways they've been used.  This is a charming picture book all pre-schoolers will love and a visual feast for the eyes.  Very highly recommended, you can't go wrong with this book.	2000-12-07
2185210:US	52793250	RGGM83USKR52P	0399234071	415273855	So You Want to Be President? (CALDECOTT MEDAL BOOK)	Books	5	67	69	N	N	Lots of Fascinating Fun Facts	Did you know that six of our presidents were named James and four were named William?  Or that James Madison was our smallest president at only five feet four inches, Abe Lincoln our tallest at six feet four inches and William Howard Taft weighed more than three hundred pounds?  Did you know that most presidents went to college, but nine didn't and they included George Washington and Harry Truman.  Presidents have come from all walks of life, had lots of different interests and hobbies and have found their way to the most powerful office in the world, in a variety of ways.  Judith St. George has taken the stuffiness out of presidential history and written a very clever, witty  book full of funny anecdotes and interesting facts.  Her easy to read and enjoyable text is complimented by David Small's expressive and imaginative political cartoon-like illustrations.  Together they take the some of the mystery out of the presidency and let future aspirants know that anyone can grow up to be president.  This is a terrific book for 8-12 year olds, chock full of information and includes an appendix with dates and important contributions for each of our 41 presidents.	2000-12-06
2185929:US	52793250	R1AYMCPXBSCMXO	0811818071	198361742	Olive, the Other Reindeer	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Christmas Classic	Olive the dog was listening to the radio and singing along to Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer, as she wrapped her Christmas presents.  The radio sang, &quot;All of the other Reindeer&quot;, Olive sang, &quot;Olive the other Reindeer&quot;.  Oh my, she hadn't realized that she was a reindeer and decided on the spot that she'd better get to the North Pole right away to help Santa.  Arriving just in time, she took her spot on the sleigh.  Santa noticed her and wasn't fooled, but he just asked Comet to tie her on extra tight, since he knew that dogs couldn't fly.  Off they went, into the night, to deliver Santa's presents.  But it doesn't take long before the sleigh and reindeer run into trouble and Olive, with her canine ways, saves the day.....The dynamic duo, Vivian Walsh and J. Otto Seibold have collaborated once again, to give us a humorous and endearing holiday story.  Their simple, gentle text and bold, expressive illustrations combine to delight and amuse children, young and old.  And as they watch Olive receive the best present ever, from Santa, youngsters will want to hear this story again and again.  This book makes a wonderful gift and a terrific addition to all bookshelves.	2000-12-06
2187174:US	52793250	RHXGBDN7X9WDM	0786805676	446827746	Mooseltoe	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A Book Full of Holiday Cheer	Mr Moose is back with his amazing and unrivaled handlebar &quot;moosetache&quot; to help us get ready for the holidays. He wants Christmas to be &quot;perfectly perfect&quot; for his family and so he's armed with his checklist to make getting ready easy and simple.  First he writes and addresses all his cards, check.  Then he shops 'til he drops, check.  Then he wraps and ribbons, bakes and cooks and even roasts the chestnuts, check check check.  And on and on, decorating and singing and checking off his list.  On the night before Christmas he hangs the stockings, just so and calls his family in to see that everything is &quot;perfectly perfect&quot;.  But his kids notice a BIG problem...he forgot the Christmas tree.  Off Mr Moose goes in search of a tree, any tree, but he's out of luck.  There just aren't any trees left.  As he comes home empty handed, he has a very clever idea to solve his problem and before you know it Mr Moose and his moosetache are decorated and standing in the corner, waiting for Santa.  Margie Palatini has written an imaginative, amusing story that will charm and delight youngsters from 3-7.  Her rhyming text and Henry Cole's bold, colorful and very expressive illustrations will have your little ones giggling, as they enjoy watching Mr Moose get ready for Christmas.  This is a picture book filled with holiday joy and cheer and a wonderful addition to your home library.	2000-12-05
2187346:US	52793250	RXFX6K91WE0DT	0763612227	109717070	Some Things Are Scary	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Winner!	Do you remember what it was like to be hugged by someone you didn't like or thinking you weren't going to be picked by either side for a game on the playground?  What about holding on to someone's hand that isn't your mother's when you thought it was or having people looking at you and laughing and not knowing why?  Fortunately for us, Florence Parry Heide does.  This collection of childhood fears really captures the essence of the young mind in a clever, funny and light hearted way so that kids will be reassured that they're not alone out there in the world (the SCARIEST thought of all).  Jules Feiffer's humorous, imaginative, expressive artwork adds just the right touch to the text and together they let all kids know that everybody's afraid of something sometimes and it's okay.  This masterpiece is perfect for those as young as 4 or 5 and will have even more meaning to 8-10 year olds.  So think back and remember what it felt like to watch in the mirror while getting a bad haircut and smile...	2000-12-05
2187682:US	52793250	R324MD8S1NWCPF	0316119792	602062045	Arthur's Teacher Moves In (Arthur Adventures)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Marc Brown Never Disappoints!	Poor Arthur, his mom has just informed him that his teacher Mr Ratburn is going to be staying at their house for awhile.  His roof was damaged in a storm and he needs a place to live, while it's getting repaired.  Arthur is in a panic.  He tells his parents that Mr Ratburn can't live at their house...it's just not right...school is school and home is home.  But after Mr Ratburn moves in, Arthur finds out he's just a regular guy who wears jeans and tee-shirts around the house, watches TV and likes dessert.  All goes well until Arthur gets an A on a very difficult math test.  Now all his friends are mad at him.  They won't stop teasing him and calling him names.  Fortunately, Mr Ratburn comes up with a clever idea and saves the day.....Marc Brown has again written a funny, witty, gentle story about life's day to day ups and downs.  His characters are very down to earth, their troubles, real and his solutions, always true to life.  Youngsters easily identify with Arthur and the gang and learn simple lessons of how to handle everyday problems that pop up, time and again.  You can't go wrong with an &quot;Arthur&quot; book.  It's always a favorite and a great addition to all bookshelves.	2000-12-04
2190039:US	52793250	R19J65H0SK4FU6	0399234772	482009916	Hedgie's Surprise	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Jan Brett...Wonderful, as Always	Poor Henny, all she really wants is to be a mother hen and have a bunch of baby chicks, just like her friend Goosey-Goosey.  But that is not to be.  For every morning, the Tomten comes and takes her newly laid egg for his breakfast.  Enter Hedgie, the hedgehog with a clever idea and a few tricks up his proverbial sleeve.  Early each morning, before the rooster crows and wakes the Tomten up, Hedgie takes Henny's egg and substitutes something else for it...first an acorn, then a strawberry, a mushroom and then a potato.  And each day, the Tomten is left hungry.  He becomes so angry that he threatens to eat Henny if she does not leave him an egg for breakfast the next day.  Henny is scared and frantic, but Hedgie still has one last surprise left for that mean Tomten and an even bigger surprise for Henny.....Jan Brett, has written a simple, witty Scandinavian folk tale, starring her wonderful and always endearing, Hedgie.  Her text is only outdone by her detailed, expressive artwork, complete with signature needlepoint border and clues, stiched in, of what's to come.  Young children will be entranced as they listen to this humorous tale while following the illustrations and guessing at the story plot.  Hedgie's Surprise makes a terrific gift and is a great addition to all home libraries.	2000-12-03
2190127:US	52793250	R3C7GWFO2R83SX	0312266324	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Novel You Won't Soon Forget	In December 1963, Alison Carter disappears from her home in the small village of Scardale, a tiny farming community set apart from the outside world.  Newly promoted Inspector George Bennett is assigned to the case and works tirelessly, round the clock to find out what happened to the girl.  After several false starts and dead ends, he finally arrests a suspect and brings him to trial.....Fast forward to 1998:  With the help of George Bennett, journalist Catherine Heathcote has written the definitive book on the whole Alison Carter affair.  But just before the book is to come out, she receives a letter from the now retired inspector, asking her to stop publication.  New information, he won't divulge, has come to his attention and he is adamant that the book never be published.  Catherine now feels she needs to reinvestigate and go back over the entire case to find out why.....A Place of Execution is an eloquently written, remarkable book, full of atmosphere and suspense.  The book is divided into two parts.  The first, a mystery/police procedural, could stand alone.  In fact, the last scene of the first section is so harrowing, you'll find yourself on the edge of your seat, holding your breath.  The second section, the investigative journalist at work, takes you back over the events of thirty-five years ago, but this time, from a different perspective.  Put together, Val McDermid has written an amazing, intricately plotted novel, full of great, interesting characters with strong voices, vivid, riveting scenes and a powerful ending that will knock your socks off.  A Place of Execution is an intense and gripping thriller, definitely one of this years best and a book that shouldn't be missed.	2000-12-02
2190453:US	52793250	R1YDEWBBUPLI8M	0439050219	999450758	The Rain Came Down	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Wonderful!	The Rain Came Down...which made the chickens squawk, then the cat yowled and the dog barked.  A man yelled at the dog and woke his sleeping baby.  His wife heard the baby crying and shouted to her husband to &quot;stop all that yelling&quot;.  A policeman hearing the yelling, stops his car in the middle of the street to investigate which causes a cab driver to start honking, which makes the ice-cream man turn up the music in his truck.  A painter accidently hits a barber with a falling paint can, a baker pokes the pizza man with his umbrella, a boy chasing his toy boat down a streaming gutter, splashes a little girl and there's arguing, crying, honking and yelling up and down the street.....Until the rain suddenly stops and so does the noise.  The sun comes out, the air smells fresh and clean and a rainbow appears.  Slowly, everyone calms down and helps each other straighten out the mess and get back to what they were doing before the shower.  David Shannon's book about the chaos that occurs because of an unexpected rain storm is a wonderful chain of events story that will delight and amuse youngsters of all ages.  His vibrant and very expressive illustrations become busier and more detailed with each addition to the unfortunate happenings this storm causes, until they almost spill off the page.  This is a terrific picture book that will have your youngsters entranced and giggling every time it's read!	2000-12-02
2193546:US	52793250	R35DWMIYU9VWJC	0689819625	466423404	Where is Christmas, Jesse Bear?	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Perfect for Pre-schoolers	Where is Christmas Jesse Bear?  Join Jesse and his bear family as they explore the sights, sounds, smells, activities and feelings that make this time of the year so wonderful.  Is it the beautiful prickly tree or the ornaments and lights?  Is it the aroma of cookies baking and spicey apple cider?  Is it the music we hear, the wrapping of presents, the glow of candles or the falling snow?  Jesse Bear finds out it's all these things and much, much more...most importantly, that warm feeling in your heart that comes from celebrating with family and friends.  Nancy White Carlstrom's newest Jesse Bear book really captures the spirit of the season with this warm, gentle, rhyming story, as we watch Jesse and his family get ready to celebrate Christmas together.  Her text is beautifully complimented by Bruce Degen's expressive, colorful, detailed illustrations and together they bring pre-schoolers the holiday message of peace on earth and joy to the world.	2000-11-29
2194657:US	52793250	R2ZG81YEPB5RSS	0060280735	776942218	Harold at the North Pole (Purple Crayon Books)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Harold Saves Christmas	It's Christmas Eve, Harold doesn't have his tree yet and he decides he needs one before Santa arrives.  So armed with his imagination and his purple crayon, Harold sets off for the north woods to find the perfect tree.  He follows the north star, encounters a blizzard, meets a snowman and continues to &quot;draw&quot; his way to the North Pole.  There he finds Santa in trouble.  He's snowed in and can't get his sleigh, reindeer and sack of toys out of his workshop, which is covered by drifts.  Lucky for us, Harold comes to the rescue and lends Santa a hand, sending him on his way to deliver presents to boys and girls all over the world.....Crockett Johnson has created a simple, gentle and really ingenious story, showing the very clever Harold at his best.  Those who love Harold and the Purple Crayon, will find this holiday adventure just as wonderful and inventive.  Harold at the North Pole will delight and amuse all pre-schoolers, as he helps your youngster welcome in the holiday season.	2000-11-29
2197144:US	52793250	R5PLWQGYXPS8O	006029194X	878653247	It's Raining Pigs & Noodles	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Something for Everyone	Jack Prelutsky's It's Raining Pigs and Noodles is a wonderful,imaginative collection of poems the whole family will enjoy, that willmake you smile, giggle, laugh and sometimes roar.  His witty, sillyand often irreverent verses are full of wordplay, puns, jokes, andeven fun with shapes.  Where else can you find out about Grungy Grace&quot;I hardly ever brush my teeth or wash my hands and face...&quot;or Plooters &quot;We are Plooters, we don't care, we make messeseverywhere...&quot; or Titanic Timmy Tinkletunes &quot;that when heplays the violin, he has to use a cello.&quot; James Stevenson'ssimple, humorous, yet expressive black and while illustrations, addjust the right touch and compliment each poem perfectly.  This is abook younger children will want to hear again and again, older kidswill want to read over and over and adults will just plain enjoy.  Sosit back, put your feet up and find out why &quot;I'm Ironing myRhinoceros&quot;, what happens to &quot;The Dancing Hippopotami&quot;and where &quot;There was Unabated Chaos&quot;.  You can't go wrongwith this book!	2000-11-27
2197492:US	52793250	R2U27DSZMLKIA	0670892203	63336857	Froggy's Best Christmas	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Froggy Wishes...Merry Christmas to All	Poor Froggy, he sleeps all winter and has never been able to celebrate Christmas.  But this year, his friend Max the beaver has other plans.  He wakes Froggy up from his long winter nap to not only wish him a Merry Christmas, but to give him his first Christmas present ever...a Christmas tree.  Froggy and Max hurry to wake up Matthew, the turtle and Travis, the bear from their winter hibernations (because Christmas is about friends) and all four head out to find the perfect tree.  They carry it back to Froggy's house, decorate it, make home-made presents for Froggy's family (because Christmas is about family too) and then it's time for Froggy to put the star on top of the tree.  Over goes the tree as Max shouts &quot;timber&quot;!  This wakes Froggy's mom and dad and they have a wonderful celebration, doing everything...opening presents, roasting chestnuts, singing, eating and even having a snowball fight.  And as the day ends, Froggy wishes &quot;Merry Christmas to All&quot;  Jonathan London has written a funny, happy, gentle story about the real meaning of Christmas...spending time with friends and family.  His easy to read text, full of cheerful animal dialogue and wonderful sound effects is complimented by Frank Remkiewicz's colorful, busy, detailed illustrations.  Together they've created a wonderful holiday story that's just perfect for pre-schoolers and that's sure to become an instant favorite in your house.	2000-11-27
2197886:US	52793250	RI6O2G3OH0VX1	0152020195	327945398	The Pig in the Spigot	Books	5	16	16	N	N	What a Unique Book	Richard Wilbur and J. Otto Seibold have come together and collaborated on a very special, one-of-a-kind book of poetry.  As it says on the book jacket flap, &quot;Richard Wilbur's been playing with his words again!&quot;  Where else will you find a sob in disobey, a bug in a bugle or an ant in the pantry?  These unique poems, containing words within words are silly, witty and most of all, fun to read.  Mr Seibold's busy, expressive illustrations compliment each poem with bright colors and humor and will keep all readers entranced with his attention to detail.  The perfect gift for kids 3 to 93, The Pig in the Spigot is a charming, amusing collection the whole family will enjoy.	2000-11-26
2200905:US	52793250	R38QOPE1UU1WK2	1563152215	302143923	Barking Spiders and Other Such Stuff, Second Edition	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Poetry for &quot;Children&quot; of All Ages	C. J. Heck's Barking Spiders and Other Such Stuff is a very special collection of poems told from a child's point of view.  Where else can you explore such silly topics as belly buttons, toe jam and stinky feet, whistling, toothpaste or bandaids...and in the same book, heaven, a &quot;special&quot; brother, best friends and being an only child?  Ms Heck is able to capture the essence of the innocent, inquisitive child in each of us.  These delightful poems are filled with honesty, wisdom and humor, as youngsters take a peek at the world around them and try to make sense of it.  This is a wonderful read aloud book, the entire family can enjoy together and a great addition to all home libraries.	2000-11-23
2201917:US	52793250	R3NRYPX47JDWY6	0763608106	650058605	Robert Crowther's Amazing Pop-up House of Inventions	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Fascinating and Fun	Have you ever wondered how long the teabag has been around, or the envelope, the toothbrush, the pencil or the pillow?  Do you know who invented the venetian blinds, the jigsaw puzzle or blue jeans?  Robert Crowther answers these and hundred of other questions, about where you live, in his amazing pop-up book of home inventions.  Each room in this house is meticulously created with great attention to detail and full of fun facts and trivia.  This book will keep your youngsters occupied for hours at a time, as they lift, open and examine the items of each room and learn about some of the many inventions that changed the way we live.  Terrific for kids and adults of all ages, Robert Crowther's Amazing Pop-Up House of Inventions is a winner!	2000-11-22
2202558:US	52793250	R9R0F583FTY4J	0375411275	367665573	Pobby and Dingan	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A Little Treasure of a Book	Kellyanne Williamson has two very special friends, Pobby and Dingan.  Pobby, the boy, likes to dance in lightning storms, has a limp and can walk through walls.  Dingan is the pretty and smart one who likes to read books over your shoulder, play rigaragaroo, has an opal in her bellybutton and is a pacifist.  They both like Kellyanne better than anyone else and they're both imaginary.  One day while Kellyanne is at school, her dad takes Pobby and Dingan with him to work in the opal mines of Lightning Ridge, Australia.  When he comes home that evening, Kellyanne asks innocently, where Pobby and Dingan are.  How could he forget to bring them home?  And though they rush back to the mines, calling and searching, Pobby and Dingan are gone.  Kellyanne is convinced that they're dead and lost forever.  By the next day, poor grief-stricken Kellyanne has fallen ill.  She can't eat, is running a fever and over time begins to fade away.  Ashmol, her older brother, now takes it upon himself to find Pobby and Dingan and enlists the help of the entire town, because he realizes that Kellyanne is dying of a broken heart and will never get well until they are found..... Ben Rice's first novel is a small, spare, very gentle story about the power of believing in the sometimes unbelievable.  His eloquent, expressive writing and beautifully drawn characters bring this story to life, and you'll begin to see and believe in Pobby and Dingan yourself.  A very charming, very poignant novel full of insight, humor, wisdom and the triumph of the human spirit, Pobby and Dingan is a book that shouldn't be missed.	2000-11-21
2205324:US	52793250	R3QL0HU7QF2C4J	0312203896	472950000	Doin' Dirty	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Quinlin's Back and Even Better.....	Howard Swindle is back and his second novel of this series is even better than his highly acclaimed first thriller, Jitter Joint.  Dallas homicide detective and recovering alcoholic, Jeb Quinlin and his partner, Paul McCarren are assigned the murder investigation of a young, ivy-league newspaper reporter, Richmond Carlisle.  It seems Carlisle was onto something big, career making big and was playing his card very close to the vest.  With the help of his many well placed sources, Jeb traces Carlisle's steps back to his own hometown of Comanche Gap and the very powerful and prominent Colter family and discovers crime and corruption at its highest levels.....Doin' Dirty is a fast paced, edge of your seat page turner, full of great realistic characters and vivid, riveting scenes.  Mr Swindle's writing, is tense and gritty, with a real ear for dialogue.  As an Edgar nominated true-crime writer and Pulitzer-prize winning investigative reporter, his expertise on police investigations and the newpaper business adds real credibility to the story.  This is a very compelling, suspenseful novel, with a climax and ending that will leave you breathless.  Doin' Dirty is a MUST read for all mystery/thriller lovers.	2000-11-19
2205436:US	52793250	R1YKGTLFDIVFDH	0439162998	457534055	The Giggler Treatment	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Terrific!	Poor Mr Mack, he's about to get the Giggler Treatment.  And what, you may ask, is that?  It seems, that Gigglers, small furry beings that can change color as they move, like chameleons, have been around evening the score since the beginning of time.  They punish adults when they're mean or unfair to children by strategically placing dog poo in the adult's walking path.  And there's the punishment...poo on the shoe!  Last night Mr Mark was so angry over a broken kitchen window, that he sent his sons to bed without supper.  Upon seeing this, the Gigglers rushed to collect Mr Mark's punishment from a very large dog, next door.  Unfortunately, they missed Mr Mark's apology as he called his boys to the table and fixed them their favorite dinner.  Now, as the boys find out their dad is in for the Treatment, they race against the clock to try and stop this unfortunate event from happening..... Roddy Doyle, author of adult bestsellers, Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha and A Star Called Henry, has really captured the essence of the pre-adolescent, in this, his first children's novel.  The Giggler Treatment is a fast paced, page turner, with easy to read short chapters and silly, vivid scenes that will have your youngsters laughing out loud to the end of the story.  His writing is down to earth with hip, irreverent dialogue and his characters, including a talking dog, an unusual seagull and the Gigglers, themselves are all terrific and memorable.  Perfect for kids aged 9-12 and destined to become a classic, you can't go wrong with this book.  The only problem is that it's over too soon!	2000-11-19
2206323:US	52793250	R1VRHUBAHMUE02	0060292857	140711343	Snowie Rolie	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Olie's New Adventure	Rolie Polie Olie lives in a warm land where there is never winter.  That is until one day when the sun blew a bulb, it got cold and started to snow.  Olie and his sister, Zowie build a new friend, Mr Snowie and the three of them have a ball, playing and sledding in the snow.  But soon the sun gets a new bulb and it begins to get warm again.  Olie and Zowie don't want Mr Snowie to melt, so they rocket away to a very cold land, Chillsville.  Once there they meet Klanky Klaus and other snowpeople just like Mr Snowie, eat snowdrop soup, icicle cake and sky high snowball pie.  Then dance the chilly cha-cha and say goodbye.  Back home the snow has melted and they're a little sad, until they find a very special present that's been left, right where Mr Snowie stood.  William Joyce has written a simple, rhyming, imaginative story of friendship and goodwill, full of rich, detailed, colorful illustrations.  This is a story that will charm and amuse all pre-schoolers and a story your youngsters will want to read again and again.	2000-11-18
2209264:US	52793250	R38FEI2RIHB79O	0525456457	298734942	I Know an Old Lady Who Swallowed a Pie	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A New Holiday Tradition	Alison Jackson has written a superb take-off on the classic, I Know An Old Lady Who Swallowed a Fly.  In this very funny, very hip rendering, the old lady with an unbelievable appetite, swallows first the pie, the very pie she brought to the Thanksgiving feast.  This is followed by a jug of cider...&quot;to moisten the pie which was really too dry&quot;, then a roll, a squash, the salad, the turkey and on and on.....With each addition, she grows bigger and fatter to the delight and amusement of the family children and the horror of their parents, as they watch their entire holiday meal disappear.  Ms Jackson's text is complimented by Judith Byron Schachner's wonderfully expressive and detailed illustrations.  Together they have authored a holiday classic, complete with charming, surprise ending, that will be enjoyed by your family for many years to come.	2000-11-15
2209693:US	52793250	R1QJT4KMAWLPT5	0966619919	815353934	Monsters in Your Bed...Monsters in Your Head (Jazz the DreamDog T)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderful Bedtime Story	Poor Angie, every night at bedtime, when the lights are turned off, the monsters come out...scary two headed dragons, orange and red caterpillars, silvery snakes, bats and ghosts.  But with Jazz, the Dreamdog's help, she faces her fears and sends those monsters packing.  Rainey, et al, has written a very comforting and empowering story that lets youngsters know, in a very gentle way, that those monsters and fears are not real, but in their heads and that they have the power to conquer them.  Her soothing rhyming text is combined with beautfully detailed, busy illustrations that will charm and delight small children as they learn to send the &quot;monsters&quot; lurking in their room away for the night, so that they can curl up, just like Angie and go to sleep.  Monsters in Your Bed...Monsters in Your Head is the perfect bedtime story and a wonderful addition to all home libraries.	2000-11-15
2214576:US	52793250	R2JDBP2S9DXZ0F	0380793660	891268098	Murder Gets A Life (A Souther Sisters Mystery)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	More Fun with the Southern Sisters	Patrica Ann and Mary Alice are back and better than ever, finding trouble in the most unusual places.  It seems that Mary Alice's son, Ray, owner of a dive-expedition business in Bora Bora, has gotten married.  The lucky lady is Sunshine Dabbs, of the Locust Fork Alabama, Turkett family, who met Ray when she won a trip to Bora Bora on Wheel of Fortune.  Mary Alice thinks Sunshine is just as pretty as a Barbie Doll and since Locust Fork is just a few minutes away from Birmingham, the southern sister's home, she talks Patricia Ann into coming with her to do a little snooping and meet the new in-laws, Meemaw and Pawpaw Turkett.  Unfortunately, upon entering Meemaw's trailer, they stumble over a body impaled to the floor with a hog-butchering knife.  And to make matters even worse, Sunshine is missing.....Ann George has written a witty, light-hearted mystery full of quirky, original characters and great southern humor.  Her writing is down to earth, funny, full of irreverent dialogue and laugh-out-loud scenes.  Easily read in one sitting, Murder Gets a Life is just pure entertainment.	2000-11-11
2214871:US	52793250	R25XEYZVSZ911N	0374399697	564787496	Madlenka	Books	5	86	86	N	N	A Trip Around the World	Madlenka lives in New York City and one day finds that her tooth wiggles.  It is loose and she has to show and tell everyone she knows.  So she travels around her city block, showing all her friends...Mr Gaston, the French baker, who has told her all about Paris as he bakes;  Mr Singh, the news vendor from India, who has told her about elephants;  Mr Ciao, the Italian ice-cream man, who has told her all about Italy and spaghetti and Mrs Grimm, Mr Eduardo, her school friend, Cleopatra and Mrs Kham...When Madlenka's mother asks her where she has been, she thinks and replies &quot;Well...I went around the world.&quot;  And lucky us, we got to go too!  Peter Sis' charming, gentle text is only outdone by his very special, expressive artwork.  As Madlenka talks with each friend, we look through a cut-out window on the page, for a glimpse of their country, then turn the page for a more expansive view.  You and your children will be entranced, time and again, with the details of each picture.  A MUST for all home libraries, Madlenka will delight and amuse youngsters of all ages, as they travel the world.	2000-11-10
2215473:US	52793250	RTEV60G16LIQ2	068983845X	785664608	The Lunchroom of Doom : Ready-for-Chapters #2	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Werewolf Club is Back!	Poor Billy Furball, he's been thrown out of the school lunchroom for having a food fight with himself.  It was so bad, they had to bring in special cleaning equipment.  And on top of that, because of his behavior, Billy has to see the school psychiatrist, who has informed him that there is no such thing as werewolves...it's just a game that got out of hand.  Now, to support and cheer up their fellow werewolf, the rest of the club has decided not to eat in the lunchroom either.  First, they tried to eat outside, but it rained.  Next they tried to each in their club sponsor's car, but it was too full of shedded werewolf hair.  So, finally they went down the block to eat at Honest Tom's Tibetan-American Lunchroom.  The food wasn't bad and they got to meet Captain Sterling of the North American Space Squad.  He has been abducted by aliens more than 400 times.  Now as the club lunches each day at Honest Tom's, strange things begin to happen...This is the second book in Daniel Pinkwater's Werewolf series, and just like the first, it is full of wacky characters and laugh out loud scenes.  The easy to read short chapters and hip, kid-speak language will keep your youngsters hooked and turning pages to the very end.  This is a silly, funny, very absurd story that is just perfect for 7-10 year olds.	2000-11-10
2218781:US	52793250	R36YBSMDORGAFX	0380812045	107722603	Cold Front: A Tory Bauer Mystery	Books	5	6	6	N	N	More Fun in South Dakota	It's New Years Eve, a blizzard has blown into Delphi, South Dakota, the power's out, the roads are closed, the temperature with wind chill is about thirty below and everyone is stuck in town to celebrate.  Bad luck for the folks of Delphi, but good luck for us, as we watch overweight, over forty, mystery loving, waitress Tory Bauer, and the rest of the Delphi citizens bring in the New Year.  But by morning, thefts are being reported all over town and a frozen body is found in the back of a pick-up truck.  It turns out to be Ian Douglas O'Hara, who blew into town from Sioux Falls, just before the blizzard hit and spent the night charming just about every female in Delphi.  Now ever inquisitive Tory is on the case, asking questions and as usual, secrets start popping up all over town.  Kathleen Taylor has written another terrific, light-hearted mystery, full of great quirky characters.  Her writing is smart and irreverent with scenes that will have you laughing out loud and enough twists and turns and false starts to keep you guessing to the end.  And as Tory circles closer and closer to the truth, you'll be rooting for her.  So sit back, put up your feet and join the gang from Delphi, as they work their magic.  You won't be disappointed.	2000-11-07
2219235:US	52793250	R10YTU3LBKN8QK	0525463968	790308154	Miss Bindergarten Stays Home from Kindergarten (Miss Bindergarten Books)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The Joys of Kindergarten	It's Sunday and poor Miss Bindergarten has come down with the flu and she won't be able to teach school tomorrow.  But, not to worry, Mr Tusky, the very able substitute, is here.  And with the help of the children, Adam the alligator, Brenda the beaver, Christopher the cat... and the rest of the alphabetized named class, they don't miss a thing...show and tell, drawing and painting, singing...Unfortunately, with each day, another student falls victim to the flu.  That is until Friday, when everybody is back for a full day with Miss Bindergarten.  On Saturday and Sunday, everyone gets to stay home, especially a very sick Mr Tusky!  Joseph Slate has written a very gentle, rhyming story about the joys of kindergarten, even when the flu hits.  Ashley Wolff's, expressive, detailed illustrations, compliment the story perfectly as you watch the class play, learn and even fall sick.  Together, they take some of the mystery and fear out of kindergarten life.  A wonderful, delightful story all kindergarteners will love and want to read again and again.	2000-11-06
2220663:US	52793250	R20LUSCZG80ZZ4	0312200668	736291024	Jitter Joint: A Novel of Suspense	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Real Winner	Homicide detective, Jeb Quinlin, is an alcoholic who doesn't care about much, except the bottle and his job.  So when his boss gives him the choice of detox or you're fired, he packs his bags and heads off to the Cedar Ridge Hospital because, after all, it's the job that counts.  Once there, he barely has time to start the program before one of the patients in the Substance Abuse Unit is murdered.  And when a second patient is murdered, soon after, Jeb's boss decides to put him on the case...he's already on the inside and in the perfect position to investigate.  Howard Swindle has written a terrific first novel, that grabs you from the first page with fast paced scenes, interesting characters and enough twists and turns to keep you turning pages to the very end.  His writing is smart and spare with down to earth, irreverent dialogue and the story itself is  very compelling and full of suspense.  A terrific debut novel with one of the best new characters to hit the mystery/detective scene.  Let's hope Mr Swindle continues this series.	2000-11-05
2224712:US	52793250	R1JZEWDGFH6G43	0399235795	585738498	Dream Snow	Books	5	76	78	N	N	A New Holiday Classic	Eric Carle's new picture book Dream Snow introduces the farmer, who lives with his five farm animals, named One, Two, Three, Four, Five and his tree, simply named The Tree.  It's almost Christmas and it hasn't snowed yet.  So one evening, the farmer sits in his favorite chair, has a cup of peppermint tea and some bread with honey, dozes off and begins to dream of snow.  When he awakens, he finds that it actually has snowed.  So, he bundles up in hat, boots and gloves, grabs a big box, throws a sack over his shoulder and, looking very familiar, heads out to the barn.  There he decorates The Tree and along with his farm animals, poised to push a button, wishes &quot;Merry Christmas to All&quot;.  What makes this simple little book so special, is Mr Carle's wonderfully inventive illustrations.  He has painted his snow flakes and drifts on clear plastic, inserted before each page, which when lifted reveals the farmer or one of his animals on the page below.  And as the farmer is wishing all a Merry Christmas, your youngsters can help by him by pushing the button, to hear a holiday song.  This is a charming, gentle story the entire family will love and a sure classic in years to come.	2000-11-01
2227645:US	52793250	RIPRFX5WI2U60	0316925810	55821494	Diamond Dogs: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Very Compelling Story	Neil Garvin lives in the desert town of Carmen, Nevada, right outside of Las Vegas.  He's a good looking high school senior, star quarterback and son of the town's sheriff.  While drinking way too much at a party one night, he becomes reckless, mean and abusive, terrorizing a couple of freshmen boys and chasing them away from the party. Driving home in his father's car, he accidently hits and kills one of the boys, Ian Curtis as he walks along the side of the highway.  Scared and disoriented, he puts Ian's body into the trunk of the car and drives home.  As soon as he gets there, his father jumps in and they ride together, out to the dead boys house.  His parents have reported him missing and phoned the sheriff.  As Neil watches stunned, his father opens the trunk of his car to get his briefcase and then continues interviewing the parents and taking notes.  The next morning, when Neil unlocks the trunk to dispose of Ian's body, it isn't there and he realizes his father has buried the body and covered up his crime.  So begins Diamond Dogs, a very tense, edge of your seat, psychological thriller.  Alan Watt's first novel is well written, tight and smart, without a spare word.  His characters are well drawn and interesting and his scenes, heart pounding and riveting.  This is a story that pulls you in and holds onto you tightly as you watch the FBI and police circling, coming closer and closer to the truth.  To Mr Watt's credit, you can almost feel Neil's desperation, as he tries to go about his normal life.  A story of love, loss, guilt and betrayal, told with great insight and wisdom, Diamond Dogs is a compelling debut novel that shouldn't be missed.	2000-10-30
2227871:US	52793250	ROWDH4NIEJOGB	0689832133	819828038	Click, Clack, Moo Cows That Type	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Terrific!	Farmer Brown is amazed when he realizes his cows have found an old typewriter and are using it.  All day long he hears, Click Clack Moo, Click Clack Moo.  Then, one day the cows leave a note tacked to the barn door demanding electric blankets...it's cold at night in the barn.  Farmer Brown says, NO!  The next day, the cows go on strike...NO MILK until we get the blankets.  Pretty soon the typing begins again and this time the note tacked to the barn door asks for more electric blankets...the hens are cold too.  When Farmer Brown ignores their demands, they go on strike with the cows.  NO MILK, NO EGGS.  Farmer Brown is beginning to panic.  How can he run a farm with the cows and chickens on strike?  So he gets out his trusty typewriter and writes a note, telling the cows and hens that he'll give them the blankets, if they turn over their typewriter.  The note is delivered by a neutral party, the duck.  An agreement is reached and Farmer Brown waits for the duck to bring him the cow's typewriter.  Instead he begins to hear, Click Clack Quack, Click Clack Quack!  Betsy Cronin has written a very funny, witty story that will amuse and delight your whole family.  Her simple, silly story line is complimented perfectly, by Betsy Lewin's charming, expressive illustrations  and youngsters will be laughing out loud at the antics of these farm animals.  This is a great, imaginative book for kids aged 4-7 and a wonderful addition to all home libraries.	2000-10-30
2230094:US	52793250	R101COCYMIOK1L	0152026320	8978232	The Napping House	Books	5	46	51	N	N	A Must Read at Bedtime	This is the Napping House, where everyone is sleeping.  It's dark, raining and very subdued.  First there's the cozy bed, followed by the snoring granny, the dreaming child, dozing dog, snoozing cat, slumbering mouse and finally, the wakeful flea.  And then the wakeful flea bites the mouse...  The team of Audrey and Don Woods has put together a wonderful, gentle bedtime story pre-schoolers will want to hear again and again.   With easy to read, repetitive text and beautifully detailed, expressive illustrations, youngsters watch the ever growing pile of sleeping bodies move, change position and then slowly lighten and brighten as one by one, everyone wakes up.  As the book ends, the last page shows the napping house where no one is sleeping.  It's sunny and cheerful with a rainbow in the sky.  This is a classic the whole family will enjoy and a must for all home libraries.	2000-10-28
2231096:US	52793250	R11QBLCC0VQXVZ	0786708050	628671303	Driving Lessons	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Short and Sweet	Sixteen year old Rebecca Patton strikes and kills a female pedestrian, during her driving lesson.  When the police arrive, they find her instructor, Andrew Newell, stumbling and totally disoriented.  At first the police believe he's drunk.  But he passes the breathalyzer test.  Then they figure he must have taken drugs, but Rebecca insists that he didn't take or drink anything, during her lesson.  The police become even more suspicious, when the identity of the dead woman is discovered.  It's Mary Beth Newell, Andrew's wife.  Ed McBain is always a master of mystery and suspense and never disappoints.  This well written, short novella is very tense, with smart, crisp dialogue, interesting characters, that subtle feeling that everything isn't as it seems and an unexpected twist at the end.  Driving Lessons is a fast read and pure enjoyment.  What else could you ask for?	2000-10-27
2231574:US	52793250	RBXYN2CXQXOLN	0399146687	239822085	Perish Twice	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Disappointing	Sunny Randall, struggling artist and Boston P.I., finds herself in an unusual situation in Perish Twice.  She's hired to protect militant feminist, Mary Lou Goddard, who's being stalked and harrassed.  The stalker turns out to be Lawrence Reeves, a man Mary Lou has &quot;dated&quot;, even though she's a lesbian.  Within days, one of her co-workers, Gretchen Crane, is found shot in Mary Lou's office and Reeves has committed suicide, leaving a note that says he killed Gretchen, in a case of mistaken identity and can't live with himself.  Mary Lou and the police are satisfied and both cases are closed.  But Sunny isn't.  Things just don't look right to her.  So even though she has no client, Sunny decides to continue investigating.  On top of that, in a second story line, both her sister and best friend are having all kinds of marital problems and need Sunny's advice, day and night.  Robert Parker has written a book without much substance.  The stalker case doesn't have much meat to it and it seems ridiculous that Sunny would continue the investigation. And the book could do without the marital problems altogether, as they add nothing to the story.  It becomes really tedious to continue listening to these women whine and Sunny play amateur psychatrist, especially since it doesn't move the story along.  But the biggest problem with this novel is that it has no ending.  We find out the who and the what, but there's no satisfying why.  You're just left there, hanging.  Robert Parker is a good writer, known for his smart crisp dialogue and great characters.  But all that is lost here.  Sunny is just Spenser in a dress.  She talks like him and acts like him.  Parker needs to give her a voice of her own.  It's best to skip this one and wait for the next Spenser.	2000-10-26
2233668:US	52793250	R3G0UB147AMJHG	0060278676	409401421	If You Take a Mouse to the Movies	Books	5	51	54	N	N	Little Mouse is Back...	If you take a mouse to the movies, he'll ask for popcorn.  When you bring him some, it will remind him of Christmas and he'll want to string it...then he'll demand a tree to hang it from...seeing the snow on the ground will make him want to build a snowmouse, then a snow fort, a snow fort fight...and on and on.  This little mouse is as busy and demanding as ever in this fourth book of the series.  Laura Numeroff's simple, funny text, captures the essence of the pre-school mind as her mouse jumps from one idea to the next, in his logical little mind, until finally coming full circle, back to the popcorn.  Felicia Bond's colorful, busy and expressive illustrations compliment the story perfectly and your youngsters will love finding all the special little details, hidden in the pictures.  Children of all ages will be amused and delighted as they enjoy the chaos this little mouse wreaks on his human friend.  This is a wonderful holiday book the whole family will enjoy.	2000-10-25
2234210:US	52793250	R1W48VTK91TGZI	038072734X	975805646	Harry the Poisonous Centipede (An Avon Camelot Book)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Centipede's Adventures	Meet Harry, he's young, charming, has many legs and he's poisonous.  He lives with his mother, Belinda and best friend George, in tunnels under the ground.  Like many young centipedes his age, he doesn't always listen to his mother and heed her warnings to stay away from the &quot;no-top&quot; world, where humans live and danger lurks around every corner.  And because of this, we are treated to Harry and George's many adventures, as they leave their safe home underground, to go up above and experience the forbidden &quot;no-top&quot; world.  Lynn Reid Banks has written a very creative and imaginative story, about the world, from a centipede's point of view.  Her writing is witty and down to earth, full of funny dialogue and great, fast paced scenes.    Your kids will be turning pages to the end, to find out what happens when Harry and George, finally come face to face with the dreaded human.  The perfect book for youngsters aged 8-10, Harry the Poisonous Centipede is a winner.	2000-10-24
2237503:US	52793250	R2MNBXTZQK5RZH	0449003868	495068551	Dying to Get Even (Jennifer Marsh Mysteries)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Jennifer Marsh is a Winner	When Jennifer Marsh, aspiring mystery writer, though still unpublished, gets a middle of the night phone call to help an elderly friend, she gets dressed, jumps in the car and heads over to the estate of Edgar Walker.  Edgar is the very rich owner of the Down Home Grill steakhouses and unfortunately is floating, dead in the swimming pool.  Lying unconscious on the patio and holding the bloody murder weapon is his ex-wife and Jennifer's dear friend, Emma.  As the police arrive and chaos ensues, Emma is arrested for the murder of her ex and Jennifer Marsh becomes the prosecution's star witness.  Now Jennifer, with the help of her writer's critique group is on a mission to solve the murder and clear Emma's name.  Judy Fitzwater has written a charming, witty mystery full of great and often inept characters, that you'll be rooting for to the very end.  Her writing is down to earth and easy to read, with irreverent dialogue and laugh out loud scenes.  This is a light-hearted, page turner you'll easily finish in one sitting.  So sit back, watch Jennifer and the gang work their magic and enjoy!	2000-10-22
2238845:US	52793250	RNS46FUKJ9BDT	0811825264	146751182	Isabelle and the Angel	Books	5	31	31	N	N	You'll Fall in Love with this Story	Isabelle, the pig lives alone and is often lonely and bored.  What she likes doing best is going to the museum, sitting on the red velvet chair and looking at her favorite picture.  It is the painting with the beautiful, little boy angel at the bottom.  One day, the little angel speaks to Isabelle and then takes her on a special tour of the museum...just the two of them. It's their secret.  Thierry Magnier has written a lovely, sensitive story of two unusual friends who find a way to take care of each other.  This simple story is beautifully illustrated by Georg Hallensleben's lush and expressive paintings.  Together, they have created the perfect book...quiet, understated text combined with stunning artwork.  Isabelle and the Angel will capture your youngster's imagination.  This is a story your kids will want to read again and again and a book that is sure to become a classic.	2000-10-20
2239915:US	52793250	R2OKN0MVUM0ESD	0689829531	632597912	Olivia	Books	5	44	48	N	N	Olivia...She's Quite a Pig	As the first page states...&quot;This is Olivia.  She is good at lots of things.&quot;  And she is.  Good at wearing people out, scaring her brother, combing her ears, getting dressed, building sand castles, painting...everything but napping.  She's a precocious, feisty, imaginative, wonderful little pig.  Ian Falconer has captured the essence of a pre-schooler in his first children's book.  His short, simple text is complimented by his expressive black and white illustrations, with just a touch of bright red to highlight the right parts.  This is a book your youngsters will want to read again and again, as they see a bit of themselves in Olivia.  A must for all home libraries, Olivia is sure to become a classic.	2000-10-19
2240641:US	52793250	RYH2SH0SRRJWG	0553801821	208460173	The Man Who Ate the 747	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Funny, Touching Story	&quot;This is the story of the greatest love, ever.&quot;  So begins The Man Who Ate the 747 and the narrator, J.J. Smith, &quot;Keeper of the Records&quot; for the Book of Records, ought to know.  He has spent his entire life searching for and recording world records, from the longest kiss ever to the world's largest menu item, to the man hit most by lightning.  But he's been in a real slump lately, too many &quot;almost&quot; record breakers, but no true winners for The Book.  That is until he receives a letter about a man, Wally Chubb, in Superior, Nebraska, who's eating an entire 747, that crash landed on his farm.  And why is Wally doing this?  So that the woman he loves, and has loved since he was ten, Willa Wyatt, will finally notice him and just maybe love him back.  This would be the biggest and best record, yet.  Off J.J. goes to Nebraska, for what will become the greatest adventure of his life.  Ben Sherwood has written a touching, witty, uplifting story, that will put a smile on your face and keep you turning pages to the very satisfying end of the book.  His writing is smart and eloquent, with scenes that come alive on the page and his interesting, quirky characters are so beautifully drawn, that they grab your attention and pull you right into the novel.  Getting to know these people and spending time with them, in Superior, is so wonderful, you'll really miss these folks when the story is over.  This is a small, sweet book and a gentle love story, told with great insight, wisdom and humor...a book that shouldn't be missed.	2000-10-19
2243034:US	52793250	R35LWPNZ5EVYQT	0439087279	146571151	Little Miss Spider At Sunnypatch School	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Little Miss Spider...You've Got to Love Her	Poor Little Miss Spider, she was so excited about going to school that she woke up extra early, ate quickly and ran to Sunny Patch School so that she could be the first one there.  But once her lessons began, she felt like a failure.  She wasn't very good at hiding in trees, or chirping like crickets.  She couldn't master drilling leaves with her tongue and digging in dung made her sick.  And when she tried to fly, she fell flat on her nose.  What a miserable first day of school.  That is, until she heard a poor little bug cry out that he was stuck in a spout.  Little Miss Spider knew just what to do.  David Kirk has written a lovely and very gentle rhyming tale, that let's all youngsters know that everyone is special and talented in their own way.  His spectacular, vibrant illustrations, compliment the story and will delight your kids with their rich color and big-eyed insects.  A terrific picture book that's not to be missed and a heartwarming story kids will want to hear again and again.	2000-10-17
2245517:US	52793250	R2NCSOEL7JPXGM	0385502532	903040762	Drowning Ruth: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	49	57	N	N	An Intriguing First Novel	The first page of Drowning Ruth is so provocative and full of impending doom, that it will pull you into the story and keep you turning pages to the very end.  Set in rural Wisconsin and spanning the time between World Wars I and II, the story, narrated by the two main characters, Ruth and her Aunt Amanda, begins with the late night drowning of Ruth's mother, on a cold November evening.  This event causes a chain reaction of secrets, lies, betrayals and deceit that follows the characters through this story, changing all their lives forever.  Ms Schwarz has written an intriguing first novel, full of great characters and riveting scenes, with enough twists and turns to keep you off balance and guessing.  The real strength of this book is her eloquent writing and attention to detail as the story moves back and forth between the fateful night of the drowning and the present.  The only real weakness to this novel is its rather hurried, predictable and anti-climactic ending.  After such a tense and compelling story, the ending was a bit of a let-down.  That said, Drowning Ruth is a very good first effort and I look forward to reading Christina Schwarz's future works.	2000-10-15
2249897:US	52793250	R28AKZVGNQCMIN	0689837909	143851112	The Magic Pretzel : Ready For Chapters 1	Books	5	12	12	N	N	How Do You Cure a Werewolf?	Fourth grader, Norman Gnormal has been raised as a dog...it's what his parents really wanted when they had him and his earliest memories are of playing fetch with his father.  Now the principal of the Watson Elementary School has signed him up for the Werewolf Club, since there aren't any other activities for boys who think that they're dogs.  At the first meeting, scary and weird Mr Talbot, a werewolf himself and the club's sponsor, sets the group's first mission in motion.  They are going to cure themselves of this evil curse by stealing the &quot;Magic Pretzel&quot;, kept in a burglar proof case in the Museum of Pretzel.  One bite, under the full moon and the curse will be lifted!  Daniel Pinkwater has  written a fast paced, funny, absurd and delightful short chapter book, that is just perfect for kids aged 7-10.  With action packed scenes and hip kid-speak language, your youngsters will be turning pages to the very end as Norman, the only non-werewolf of the club, uses his canine skills to find and capture the prized pretzel.  This is the beginning of a terrific series and a sure way to help your kids enjoy reading.	2000-10-12
2250879:US	52793250	R1EWPM6ZRAEKWL	0152020330	620510286	There's a Zoo in Room 22	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Fun-Filled Book of Poems	Miss Darling is an inspired teacher and when her students ask for a class pet, she turns the search into a class lesson, reciting a poem about an animal for each letter of the alphabet.  Are they interested in Amanda Anaconda or Boring Beetle Bill...the Quiet Quohog or the Umbrella Bird...? Judy Sierra has written a funny, witty, very imaginative book of poems that will delight and amuse young children, as each letter of the alphabet is used to describe and give a little information about some familiar and many unfamiliar animals.  Barney Saltzberg's colorful, expressive illustrations add just the right touch to each verse and children will enjoy looking for the hidden animals in each picture.  This is a perfect book for youngsters aged 3-7 and a wonderful addition to all home libraries.	2000-10-11
2252551:US	52793250	RRBXB7CRWYMA0	0425175405	636904914	Black Notice (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	2	14	15	N	N	Not One of Cornwell's Best	It's December in Richmond when a cargo ship is found to have the decomposing body of a stowaway on board, in a locked container.  Chief Medical Examiner, Kay Scarpetta is called to the scene and personally conducts the autopsy finding a strange tatoo and blond animal-like hairs covering the body.  A few days later, the same peculiar hair is found on a murdered store clerk.  So begins Black Notice, Ms Cornwell's tenth Scarpetta mystery/thriller.  This time, Kay follows the clues from Richmond to Interpol headquarters, Paris and back home again, to solve the case, in the deaths of these two unrelated people.  But that's not all...she's having a personal crisis over the death of her lover, Benton Wesley, her niece Lucy is having all kinds of personal and work related problems and a new deputy chief is wreaking havoc with Kay's professional life.  Patricia Cornwell has written a novel chock full of sometimes confusing story lines that finally come together for an unfortunately weak and predictable ending.  The writing is tense and at times very compelling, but the story often gets bogged down in detail and seems more far-fetched than realistic or riveting.  And her characters have become one dimensional, difficult to care about and uninteresting.  All in all, not one of Ms Cornwell's best efforts.  If you are new to this series, start with her terrific earlier books, Postmortem or Body of Evidence.  If you're a Kay Scarpetta fan, do yourself a favor and skip this one.	2000-10-10
2254749:US	52793250	R1X25EFVO1G4IH	0689828896	421192126	The Hoboken Chicken Emergency	Books	5	28	28	N	N	BIG Chicken Story!	Arthur Bobowicz of Hoboken, New Jersey is given $16.00 and the important task of buying this year's Thanksgiving turkey, a really big one, since the entire family will be coming for Thanksgiving dinner.  But when he gets to the meat market, there are no turkeys left...no chickens or ducks or fowl of any kind.  As he walks the streets trying to figure out what to do, he comes across a sign in an apartment house window, Professor Mazzocchi Inventor of the Chicken System, and thinks to himself that this looks promising.  The Professor tells him he's in luck, takes his money, hands him a large chicken and slams the door yelling, &quot;No refunds!&quot;  Unfortunately, what Arthur is holding is not a dinner chicken, but a 266 pound, live chicken wearing a leash, named Henrietta.  So begins the Hoboken Chicken Emergency.  And when Henrietta gets loose, the real fun begins.  Daniel Pinkwater has written a very imaginative, funny, absurd story that's just perfect for 9 and 10 year olds.  With fast paced scenes and hilarious story events, your youngsters will be laughing out loud while turning pages to the very end.  The Hoboken Chicken Emergency is a classic and a tall tale that's not to be missed.	2000-10-08
2259536:US	52793250	R130NPMXN8NFNN	1928781128	553727319	Forgive Us Our Trespasses	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Compelling  First Novel	Christine Rose Cambridge has written a small, yet very powerful novel about the abuse of position and betrayal of trust in her first book, Forgive Us Our Trespasses.  Carrie, at seventeen, confused, lonely and sad over the divorce of her parents is sent to her minister, Reverend Mark Simon for counselling.  But Mark uses his position and influence to have a sexual affair with the teenager.  Now, over twenty years later, married and the mother of two, Carrie has come forward to tell her story and testify against this man.  For although she has outwardly gone on with her life, a dark cloud has hung over her these many years and she has come to realize she will never be &quot;happy&quot; without closure.  This is a very thoughtful, well written, riveting novel and the depth of Ms Cambridge's knowledge about this topic, adds real credibility to the story.  Her characters are artfully drawn and developed and very believable.  It is just that fact, that Carrie could be any woman, you, your sister or neighbor, that makes this story so compelling.  Forgive Us Our Trespasses is a little gem of a book, told with great insight and wisdom.	2000-10-04
2263130:US	52793250	R3HXON4H8WZV1C	031211382X	126360603	The Peterkin Papers	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Classic	Lucretia P Hale's, The Peterkin Papers is as wonderful today as I'm sure it was in 1880, when it was originally published.  Meet the Peterkins, a nineteenth century family, totally lacking in common sense and enjoy their troubles and adventures as they muddle through life's challenges.  For example, what do the Peterkins do when their daughter, Eliza Elizabeth's piano is delivered and set in front of the living room window backwards.  They solve this problem by simply opening the window and she sits outside, on the porch playing and practicing.  This is all fine during the summer, but when fall and winter arrive, it becomes too cold for her to sit out, even in her winter coat.  Enter the lady from Philadelphia...she's so wise that she always has a quick solution to these tough Peterkin problems.  &quot;But why don't you turn the piano 'round?&quot;  And the Peterkins are always amazed that they didn't think of that.  As Mrs Peterkins says, &quot;What shall we do when the lady, from Philadelphia goes home again?&quot;  This is a delightful book of short chapters, each detailing a glich in the Peterkin's lives, that will charm and amuse your family, as it has families for many generations.  The Peterkin Papers is an American classic and the perfect read-aloud book the whole family can share together.	2000-10-02
2267730:US	52793250	R3VHTXWF2G2ZQR	0684823438	526098515	Rock, Paper, Scissors	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Terrific First Novel	...  Mr Samuel has really put all the pieces together and given us a very knowledgeable and plausible story of political intrigue.  With such a dynamite premise and short cliff-hanging chapters, this is a book you'll have to read in one sitting.  A novel that has it all...great, interesting characters, terrific, compelling writing and riveting scenes that will keep you on the edge of your seat.  Get yourself a copy, turn off the phone and lock the door.  Rock Paper Scissors is a winner.	2000-09-28
2271238:US	52793250	R14M96GHTUH8GR	006027980X	886729756	Where Do Balloons Go? An Uplifting Mystery	Books	5	46	49	N	N	A Wonderful, Colorful Book	That dynamic duo, Jamie Lee Curtis and Laura Cornell ponder the age-old question, Where Do Balloons Go?, in their fourth collaboration of the same name.  Written in rhyme, Curtis' gentle, witty, imaginative story will delight and amuse children of all ages as they explore the possibilities of what might happen when you let go of a balloon.  &quot;Do they tango with airplanes?  Or cha-cha with birds?  Can plain balloons read balloons printed with words?&quot;  Cornell's busy, expressive illustrations add just the right touch to this wonderful story and will keep youngsters entranced reading after reading as they find new hidden pictures and scenes.  This is a real gem of a book, the whole family will enjoy, that is sure to become a classic in years to come.	2000-09-25
2274322:US	52793250	R2K4W26ZL2708Q	0763611883	637042413	I Will Never Not Ever Eat a Tomato (Charlie and Lola)	Books	5	39	45	N	N	Absolutely Yummy	Lola is a VERY picky eater.  Carrots are for rabbits.  Peas are too small and too green.  She won't touch potatoes or mushrooms, spaghetti, eggs or sausage...the list goes on and on.  And, she absolutely will never not ever eat a tomato.  Her big sister Charlie has got to give her dinner and decides &quot;to play a good trick on her.&quot;  Carrots become orange twiglets from Jupiter and Lola is so intrigued that she just has to try one.  Peas turn into green drops from Greenland, mashed potatoes, cloud fluff from Mt Fuji.  And though Lola would never touch a fish stick, she's willing to eat an ocean nibble since mermaids eat them all the time.  Pretty soon, dinner is over and Lola has eaten everything, even a nice round red moonsquirter.  You know, they're her favorite.  Lauren Child has written a funny, witty, imaginative story, told in hip kid-speak, all picky eaters will identify with.  Her busy, expressive illustrations, full of color and textures, compliment the text and will really hold your youngster's attention.  This is a terrific book the whole family can enjoy and it might even get your picky eater to try something new.	2000-09-22
2276434:US	52793250	RL34DFQ5YQD3T	0670888605	163532492	Froggy Goes to Bed	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Froggy's Back...Lucky Us	It's the end of the day and Froggy is &quot;too pooped to pop&quot;.  But that doesn't stop him from prolonging his bedtime.  He has to find his boat  before his bubble bath, and then his pajamas, his toothbrush and his huggy.   And before his mother can get him tucked in he needs a snack and a drink,  the closet door has to be closed, the bedroom door opened just right and  his nightlight turned to low.  Poor mother frog is getting pretty tired  herself, but Froggy insists on a story.  As mother begins to read, she  drops off to sleep and begins to snore.  Only then does Froggy close his  eyes and fall soundly asleep.  Jonathan London has written a gentle, funny  story of bedtime delayed, full of wonderful, expressive illustrations and  silly sound effects, that will delight and amuse all pre-schoolers.  And as  they watch Froggy's staying-up antics, many will recognize a little of  themselves in the story.  This is a book that is sure to become a bedtime  favorite and a nice addition to all of London's Froggy stories.	2000-09-20
2276865:US	52793250	R18N74FX0IXLN4	0380726238	733601761	A Drink Before the War (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Spectacular First Novel	Patrick Kenzie and Angie Gennaro, two tough blue collar, wise-cracking Dorchester PIs, are hired by a couple of well known State Senators to find an office cleaning woman, Jenna Angeline and they're willing to pay a premium price to locate her.  It seems that she's stolen some sensitive, confidential documents from their office and disappeared.  Patrick (never Pat) and Angie think this job, a simple &quot;find and a phone call&quot; will be fast, easy money, but that just isn't going to be the case.  Within 48 hours of starting the job, Jenna is found and gunned down and Kenzie and Gennaro find themselves at the center of gang warfare, political corruption and murder.  Dennis Lehane has written a stunning, action-packed first novel full of great characters and compelling, riveting scenes, that jump off the page.  The writing is smart and gritty and Lehane shows a wonderful ear for dialogue.  This is a terrific story that has it all...a fast-paced, tight plot, superb writing and two of the most original characters to come along in a long time.  A Drink Before the War is the start of a wonderful series and a novel that shouldn't be missed by mystery/suspense fans.  After you finish this book, make sure you read them all.	2000-09-20
2279124:US	52793250	R1O2I7DS8T9NUR	0140363556	488754979	General Butterfingers	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Terrific!	The Spitzers were three World War II rescue commandos, brave and fearless and their greatest accomplishment was saving the life of General Britt.   After the war was over, the General invited them to come live with him, his  housekeeper, Mrs Wilson and her son, Walter, in his house on Felton Street.   And they all live happily together for many years.  Sadly, General Britt  passed away, leaving the house to the three, now very old warriors.  That  is until the letter came.  The General's nasty nephew, Ralph, claims he's  the heir to the General's estate and is giving the Spitzers, Mrs Wilson and  Walter one week to get out.  But Walter will have none of this.  He is  determined to find a way to save the house for his &quot;family&quot; and  stop Ralph from throwing them out.  He tells the Spitzers, &quot;We're not  giving up this house without a fight.&quot; So begins General  Butterfingers, John Reynolds Gardiner's fast paced, action packed story,  that will delight and amuse even the hardest to please readers.  Gardiner  has filled his book with great characters, lots of dialogue and funny,  vivid scenes that will keep kids turning pages to the end, as they watch  Walter lead the Spitzers into one last battle.  This is the perfect book  for kids aged 9-12 and a wonderful read-aloud story the whole family will  enjoy.	2000-09-18
2286671:US	52793250	R1ZUATSJCN5VZL	0446522996	762072454	The Letter of the Law	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Good Legal Thriller	Casey Jordan is the best defense lawyer in Texas and is looking to stretch  that claim to best defense attorney nationwide.  To that end she likes big,  headline making, provocative cases, those with the biggest clients and the  biggest risks.  When Eric Lipton, nationally known criminal law professor,  is accused of brutally murdering a former student, he hires Casey to defend  him and she's thrilled.  Though a tough case, Lipton was arrested leaving  the country with the victim's bloody underwear in his luggage, it's just  the kind of headline grabbing, career advancing trial she likes.  And Casey  does an admirable job, tearing apart defense witnesses and even laying  suspicion on the victim's father.  Just before the jury foreman reads the  not guilty verdict, Lipton leans over and whispers into Casey's  ear...&quot;I really killed her&quot;.  Now as other bodies begin to pile  up, Casey is caught in a real bind, her duty to her client as an attorney  and her need to see justice done.  Tim Green has written a fast paced, page  turner with well developed, interesting characters,  powerful, riveting  scenes and enough twists and turns to keep you off balance and guessing to  the very end of the book.  As a practicing attorney, his knowledge of the  ins and outs of our criminal justice system, lend real credibility to the  story.  The Letter of the Law has it all, great characters, an action  packed tight plot and a very satisfying ending with a few surprises thrown  in.	2000-09-12
2287320:US	52793250	R2IROE6QGID668	038072975X	892493747	Midnight Champagne (Mysteries & Horror)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Portrait of Marriage	It's Valentine's Day and a record breaking blizzard blows in as guests  arrive at the Great Lakes Chapel and Hideaway Lodge for the evening wedding  of April Liesgang and Caleb Shannon.  As they take their vows and begin  their lives together, another couple in Lodge Room 33 are ending their  marriage in anger and violence.  A. Manette Ansay takes a strong look at  marriage and relationships as family and strangers come together in this  sensitive, humorous, poignant novel.  Midnight Champagne travels  back and  forth between April and Caleb's wedding/reception and the incident in Room  33.  These two diverse story lines move closer and closer together until  they finally intersect as the wedding reception comes to an end with the  final midnight champagne toast.  Ms Ansay has written a spellbinding,  compelling story that examines love, trust, betrayal, divorce and spousal  abuse.  Her large cast of characters are interesting and beautifully drawn  and developed and each scene is vivid and comes alive on the page.  The  great strength of this novel is the eloquent writing and attention to  detail.  And though there is not a spare word in this story, it speaks  volumes.  Midnight Champagne is a powerful snapshot of marriage and  mid-western life, told with great insight and wisdom.	2000-09-11
2296276:US	52793250	RVL4KBL3TL6UT	0671034065	142020743	Mr. Perfect	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A Fun, Fast Read	Jaine Bright and three of the women she works with meet every Friday after  work for a glass of wine, a little dinner and a lot of talking.  Tonight  the conversation zeros in on their problems with men and the four soon find  themselves making a list of the attributes they'd want in the perfect man.   He needs to be faithful, nice, dependable, have a steady job and a sense of  humor.  But soon the list continues on to great in bed and then to more  X-rated items.  All in good fun among four good friends.  That is until  somebody gets hold of it and sends out a company newsletter titled Mr  Perfect.  From there everything snowballs, The List moves on to news  articles and television segments and takes on a life of its own.  Women  love it, men think it's sexist and offensive and Jaine Bright and her  friends just thought it was a private joke. That is, until one of the four  is murdered.  Now the three remaining friends are afraid for their lives  and the police are wondering if The List incited the killer.  Linda Howard  has written a witty, sexy, fast paced mystery that will keep you turning  pages to the very end.  Her writing is down to earth and irreverent with  vivid scenes, that at times will have you laughing out loud.  This is a  book that has it all...good, tight story, fun characters you can relate to,  romance, suspense and a mystery that will keep you guessing to the very  end.  A great book to take on vacation or to the beach.	2000-09-04
2296626:US	52793250	R3NQELQJWISKYN	0060196246	648069616	Wild Justice	Books	5	17	20	N	N	WOW!	Detective Bobby Vasquez receives an anonymous tip that a major cocaine  deal is about to go down in a secluded mountain cabin.  Without warrants or  backup he breaks into the cabin and instead of discovering cocaine,  discovers two severed heads in the refrigerator of a basement operating  room.  There is also a bloody scalpel and a half full coffee mug sitting on  the counter, both with fingerprints.  After calling in reinforcements, the  police find a mass grave with nine corpses.  All have obviously been  tortured and some are missing vital organs.  All evidence points to Dr  Vincent Cardoni, an unsympathetic, cocaine addicted surgeon with a bad  temper.  He promptly hires Frank Jaffe and his daughter, Amanda to handle  his defense, stating he was framed by his wife.  Even though the evidence  is overwhelming, the Jaffes get him off on a technicality.  He promptly  disappears, leaving his severed hand behind.  Considered dead, the police  close the case.  Fast forward four years.  Another killing field is found  at another secluded cabin with evidence almost identical to the first,  including bloody scalpel and mug of coffee.  Only this time, all evidence  points to Dr Cardoni's ex-wife, surgeon Justine Castle. She immediately  calls the Jaffes to defend her and this time their investigation leads to a  roller coaster of a ride, to the stunning conclusion of this novel.  Wild  Justice has it all...great, believable characters, tight plot, compelling  mystery and enough twists and turns to keep you off balance and guessing to  the very last page.  This is a fast paced, page turner you won't be able to  put down and will have to read in one sitting.  And when you're through  with this book, just thinking about it will keep you up all night.  Phillip  Margolin is back and better than ever.  One of the best books I've read all  year.  Wild Justice is definately headed for all the best sellers lists.	2000-09-04
2300659:US	52793250	RECD0BLRDQCSH	0439112044	975399172	Nobody Rides the Unicorn	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Beautiful Fairy Tale	Adrian Mitchell has written a wonderful fairy tale, complete with evil king, beggar girl turned heroine and happily ever after ending.  Zoe is  &quot;nobody's&quot; child and lives alone on the outskirts of town.  Her  voice is soft and sweet.  When the king wants to capture a unicorn for the  magic in its horn, he tricks Zoe into helping him.  He sends her into the  forest to sing softly and when a beautiful unicorn comes, lies down and  puts his head in her lap, the king's men capture it.  But Zoe is angry,  defies the king and sets the unicorn free.  After she is banished from the  kingdom, she sets out to find her special friend.  Nobody Rides the Unicorn  is a lovely, sensitive story, with a message, the whole family will  treasure.  Children will begin to understand the rewards of doing what is  right and listening to their consciences.  The story is complimented with  beautiful illustrations and the artwork is as special and appealing to  youngsters, as the tale itself.  As a great bedtime story and a must for  all home libraries, this book will be a part of your family for many years  to come.	2000-08-31
2301867:US	52793250	RRJD36XD9GIWT	0316119202	225592924	The Enormous Egg	Books	5	30	35	N	N	Terrific, Imaginative Tale	One morning, as Nate Twitchell goes to the hen house to collect eggs, he finds one of his chickens sitting on an enormous egg...it's even bigger  than the hen.  No one has ever seen anything like this before and Nate is  determined to take care of the egg and make sure it hatches.  But, taking  care of the egg is a big chore.  Nate has to turn it often, to keep it warm  and watch it carefully.  After six weeks it hatches and out comes, not a  baby chick, but a baby triceratops.  News of the birth of a dinosaur  travels fast and soon doctors, scientists and even politicians are coming  to town to have a look.  As the dinosaur grows larger and larger, some  decisions have to be made about  where it will live and who will take the  best care of it.  Mr Butterworth has written a wonderful, fast paced story,  narrated by Nate, that your kids will not want to stop reading.  The  Enormous Egg is an action packed, funny and sometimes poignant story full  of interesting characters and great, vivid scenes.   This is the perfect  book for kids age 9-12 and a terrific read-aloud book the whole family can  enjoy together.	2000-08-30
2302456:US	52793250	R39I5V29ISIT7S	0061011894	847009153	Bonita Faye	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Bonita Faye...You've Gotta Love Her	Bonita Faye's opening lines are so provocative...&quot;It was only a  little murder.  He wasn't even an important man.&quot;...that once you  start reading, you won't be able to put this book down.  Bonita Faye  Burnett was a dirt poor, Poteau Oklahoma white girl married to abusive,  Billy Roy.  That is, until the night he was murdered on Cavanal Hill.  That  one act liberated Bonita Faye and with the insurance money she took her  dream trip to Paris, France.  This is her memoir, her life from Oklahoma to  Paris and back.  And, it is a roller coaster of a ride, full of twists and  turns, you won't soon forget.  Margaret Moseley has created one of the most  unique and loveable fictional characters you'll ever come across.  Bonita  Faye is a remarkable and resourceful woman, full of wisdom and humor and  you'll be rooting for her as she relates the story of her amazing life.   The writing is crisp, smart and very down to earth with dialogue that's  true to life.  The scenes, come alive on the page and at times you'll be  laughing out loud.  And the story itself will pull you in from the first  page and never let you go.  Bonita Faye is both a delightful and memorable  woman and a book that shouldn't be missed.	2000-08-30
2309177:US	52793250	R5FFT2TLHPJV8	0064402509	221286712	The Family Under the Bridge	Books	5	100	105	N	N	A Heartwarming Story	Armand is a hobo who lives in Paris, under a bridge.  He begs and does odd jobs for money to take care of himself and buy food.  One day he finds a  mother and her three children in his &quot;home&quot;, under the bridge.   At first he is gruff and unhappy about sharing the bridge, but in time he  begins to like and help care for this poor homeless family.  As Christmas  nears, the children ask for nothing except a home of their own and Armand  comes up with a plan to make their wish come true.  Natalie Savage Carlson  has written a beautiful, sensitive story full of humor, insight and wisdom.   With fast paced, interesting scenes, young readers will be able to  identify with the characters of the children in the story and begin to  understand the meaning of family and the rewards of giving and accepting  help from others.  Perfect for children aged 9-12, this is also a great   read-aloud book the entire family can enjoy and discuss.  The Family Under  the Bridge is a thoughtful, heartwarming story and Ms Carlson deserved all  the awards this book won.	2000-08-24
2311831:US	52793250	R1YZQ4Q7WOBSW0	038079943X	172748181	Mourning Shift: A Tory Bauer Mystery	Books	5	23	23	N	N	More Fun in Delphi, South Dakota	Kathleen Taylor is in fine form with her latest mystery, Mourning Shift.   Tory Bauer, widowed, overweight, over forty waitress at the only eating  establishment in town, the Delphi Cafe is crankier than usual.  It's  Halloween, her least favorite holiday, she's dressed as a munchkin from The  Wizard of Oz and she's just discovered the dead body of a patron in the  cafe bathroom.  To make matters worse, he's the long estranged husband of  Aphrodite Ferguson, the cafe's owner (no one in town knew she'd ever been  married), his daughter and grandson have just arrived at the cafe to meet  him and Tory has to give them the bad news.  But the day isn't over yet.   Within hours, one of the locals is murdered, blown to bits by a car bomb  and the two deaths may be connected.  When always inquisitive Tory starts  looking for answers, secrets start popping up all over town.  This is a  terrific, fast paced, funny mystery full of great quirky characters.  The  writing is sharp and witty with dialogue so irreverent and down to earth,  you'll find yourself laughing out loud.  And though all the clues are  there, the mystery has enough twists and turns to keep you off balance and  guessing to the surprise ending of the story.  So take a trip to South  Dakota and join the fun at the Delphi Cafe.  You won't be disappointed.	2000-08-23
2315590:US	52793250	RYAGRDBBJ4NHI	0553106341	334109426	Dust to Dust	Books	5	56	58	N	N	You Won't Be Able To Put It Down	Tami Hoag is back and better than ever with her new suspense thriller, Dust to Dust.  Andy Fallon, Internal Affairs cop and son of police legend,  Iron Mike Fallon, is found hanging nude in his bedroom, facing a mirror  with the word &quot;sorry&quot; printed on it.   Suicide...accident...murder? Sam Kovac and Nikki Liska, two of Minneapolis'  toughest detectives are told to expedite the case, call it an accident and  move on.  But Kovac isn't convinced and when Iron Mike is found a few days  later, another apparent suicide, Kovac and Liska stop listening to the  brass, put their careers on the line and start their own investigation.  As  they begin to dig, they uncover dirty cops, cover ups, a connection to a  twenty year old case and a killer who wants to keep the secrets of the past  dead and buried.  This is one fast paced, page turner that will keep you up  reading, all night.  Dust to Dust has it all.  Great characters with strong  voices.  Tight plot with vivid, riveting scenes and enough twists and turns  to keep you guessing to the terrifying climax and very satisfying end of  the book.  A must read for all mystery fans!	2000-08-20
2317478:US	52793250	R2J8A3J8UKGWS0	0471247421	648018356	Falling Leaves: The True Story of an Unwanted Chinese Daughter	Books	5	138	151	N	N	An Amazing Story!	In 1937, Adeline Yen Mah's mother died giving birth to her.  Because of this, she was considered &quot;bad luck&quot;, tormented by her siblings  and shunned by her father.  Her father soon remarried a beautiful, young  Eurasian woman who was cruel and manipulative.  She treated all five of her  stepchildren badly, but saved her real hatred for Adeline.  Falling Leaves  is the powerful, riveting memoir of emotional abuse and isolation that Ms  Yen Mah suffered at the hands of her stepmother.  At this point, most would  say, &quot;Why would I want to torture myself by reading a book about child  abuse?&quot;  The answer is simple...Adeline Yen Mah didn't just survive  her childhood, she triumphed.  With great wisdom and insight, she tells a  story not just about her life, but the life of China, before and after the  cultural revolution and how both were changed forever.  Despite her  miserable childhood, she excelled, became a doctor, married and found  freedom and a new life in America.  This is an amazing, compelling story,  told by an amazing woman who was not only able to put the past behind her,  but was able to celebrate life and move forward.	2000-08-18
2323417:US	52793250	R25LIMGCBD99WW	0064401324	261516606	Stone Fox	Books	5	79	91	N	N	A Terrific Story	Ten year old Willy lives in Jackson, Wyoming on a potato farm with his grandfather and his dog Searchlight.  When his grandfather falls ill and  the tax collector comes calling for back taxes, Willy is determined to find  the money to save the farm.  But where can a 10 year old boy earn $500?  He  sees an advertisement for the National Dogsled Race, held each year in  Jackson and decides to enter.  He is convinced that he and Searchlight can  beat the other racers, among them, an American Indian, Stone Fox.  Stone  Fox has a team of five Samoyeds and has never lost a race.  He races to  earn prize money so that he can buy back land taken from his people.  John  Reynolds Gardiner has written a beautiful story of faith and courage with  strong, exciting scenes that move the story along at a fast pace.  With its  powerful, emotional ending, youngsters begin to understand that not every  story has a happy ending and you have to learn to accept the good with the  bad.  Stone Fox is a story of two heroes, trying to win the race for good  causes and in the end, they were both winners.  A must read for children  age 9-12 and the perfect read-aloud family book.	2000-08-14
2331285:US	52793250	R2520YO9OWBK5V	0553275852	814945983	The Monkey's Raincoat  (Elvis Cole)	Books	5	355	360	N	N	The First of a Great Series!	The Monkey's Raincoat, grabs you from the first chapter, puts you on the edge of your seat and keeps you there to the climactic end of the book.   Meet Elvis Cole, Viet Nam vet, ex-security guard turned private  investigator.  He's a hard boiled, wise-cracking detective who gives Mike  Hammer and Sam Spade a run for their money.  The case begins as Ellen Lang  hires Elvis to find her missing husband, Hollywood agent, Mort, who's taken  their son and disappeared.  Unfortunately, the case is a bit more  complicated than just a simple missing person.  Mort is soon found shot  dead in his car, there's no sign of the son and  Ellen is missing too.   Elvis Cole is now on a mission to find mother and son and it involves  missing drugs and some pretty frightening bad guys.  Robert Crais has  created a great mystery with a tight plot, full of terrific, interesting  characters.  His writing is crisp and sharp with witty and irreverent  dialogue and action packed scenes.  This is a fast paced, page turner that  won't let you down.  Mr. Crais deserved all the nominations and awards this  book won.	2000-08-09
2335138:US	52793250	R1JCXPYYTFYHAK	0399145990	217600181	The River King	Books	4	44	49	N	N	A Story of Secrets	The Hadden School, an elite private school on the banks of the Hadden  River, has had a very checkered past since it was built in 1858.  No child  from the town has ever been admitted and the Hadden students and townies  never mix.  When a student, August Pierce is found dead, floating in the  Hadden River, both worlds come crashing together as Abel Grey, town  policeman becomes determined, despite the wishes of both the school and the  town to close the case quickly, to find out what actually happened.  His  investigation into possible foul play begins to unravel the secret lives of  both the students and town residents.  Alice Hoffman spends almost the  first half of this book setting the suspenseful and compelling atmosphere,  and because her writing is so detailed and at times overly descriptive, it  bogs the plot down at times.  That said, her writing is eloquent and her  scenes so vivid you begin to smell the river and feel the damp, cold air of  Massachusetts.  This is a story of love, loss, betrayal and finally hope as  the characters, so beautifully drawn, begin to come apart, piece by piece,  as the truth comes to the surface.  The River King is a powerful story told  with great insight and wisdom that leaves the reader both sad and hopeful  at the end of the book.	2000-08-06
2337629:US	52793250	R2MX9410OOVMI1	0688170277	711578253	Wemberly Worried	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Kevin Henkes Never Disappoints!	Poor Wemberly, she worries about everything...big, little and in between. And what she's worried about most, is her first day of nursery school.   Never fear, her teacher, Miss Peachum, knows just how she feel and  introduces her to Jewel.  Jewel worries about everything too.  No one  understands and expresses a child's feelings better than Kevin Henkes.  His  writing is true to life with a simple, gentle message.  His illustrations,  detailed and very expressive and best of all, he lets your pre-schooler  know...You're not alone out there.  This is a terrific new story you  youngster(s) will want to hear again and again and a great addition to all  home libraries.	2000-08-04
2340071:US	52793250	R2WUF6OFDDKTAY	0374332657	159975375	Holes (Newberry Medal Book)	Books	5	260	291	N	N	A Story that has it All	Stanley Yelnats and his family have never had anything but bad luck, so  it's not really a surprise to him when he is falsely accused and convicted  of theft.  Given the choice of jail or Camp Green Lake, Stanley chooses  Green Lake because he's never been to camp before.  Unfortunately, Camp  Green Lake doesn't have a lake and it isn't really a camp.  It's a juvenile  detention facility.  And to build character, the warden, who paints her  fingernails with snake venom, has each &quot;camper&quot; dig a hole five  feet deep by five feet wide by five feet long every day, even Saturdays and  Sundays.  What Stanley and the rest of the boys don't know is that the  warden isn't just building character, she's looking for the lost buried  treasure of outlaw, Kissing Kate Barlow.  So begins Holes, a terrific,  action filled story, full of great characters with strong voices, exciting,  funny scenes and enough twists and turns to keep your kids reading non-stop  to the end of the book.  Louis Sachar has written a masterpiece full of  humor, insight, wisdom and the triumph of the human spirit and he deserves  all the awards this book won.  A must read for children aged 9 - 12 and a  great addition to all home libraries.	2000-08-03
2342245:US	52793250	R3J2T3Q6R61A2N	0060984333	264001180	American Pie: A Novel	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A Visit to Tallulah, Tennessee	If it wasn't for bad luck, the McBroom family wouldn't have any luck at all.  This is the first lesson Michael Lee West teaches as you begin reading American Pie.  This family has been through a lot...sickness,  death, suicide, depression, desertion...The story begins as Freddie, a  marine biologist, who escaped life in Tallulah and moved to California, is  called home.  Her baby sister and town slut, Jo-Nell has been hit by a  train, trying to balance a tequila sunrise on her lap while driving and is  in critical condition.  As Freddie comes home to help out her Grandma  Minerva and sister Eleanor, the revelations of the McBroom family begin to  pour out.  This is a story of love, loss and adversity, narrated by each of  the different family members, as they look back on the events of their  lives and what brought them to this point.   Wonderful characters with  strong voices and great writing pull you into the lives of these people and  keep you turning pages to the satsifying end of the book.  A perceptive  story about small town, southern life, that is both poignant and uplifting  and  told with great humor, wisdom and insight.	2000-08-02
2344123:US	52793250	R2BERP84FJVMDL	0380793806	367961273	Funeral Food (Tory Bauer Mystery)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Food, Fun and Mystery	Delphi, South Dakota is a dusty, pin prick of a town where life revolves around the cafe and a beer with olives tossed in, is called a South Dakota Martini.  That is, until Tory Bauer, a widowed, over forty waitress, who's  hooked on mystery novels, finds Mormon missionary, Charles Winston  bludgeoned to death in the Delphi Cafe mop closet.  Now, the town is in  chaos, Tory is  looking for answers and some of the best kept secrets are  coming out of their hiding places.  Ms Taylor has put together a colorful  cast of characters that come alive on the page.  The writing and dialogue  are terrific, with descriptions so vivid that you'll be laughing out loud  and enough twists and turns to keep you turning pages.  This is a story you  won't want to put down and fortunately, it is easily read in one sitting.   Funeral Food has it all...great characters, good plot and a mystery that  keeps you guessing to the very end.	2000-08-01
2348187:US	52793250	R2IS43FPKFEZA1	0590316818	184679849	How Do Dinosaurs Say Goodnight?	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Bedtime with a dose of Humor	Jane Yolen has written a lovely bedtime story about the way little dinosaurs go to bed and say good night.  Do they slam their tales and pout?  Do they throw their teddy bears all about?  No... they give kisses and  hugs and whisper good night.  This is a wonderful bedtime book, told in  rhyme that will amuse and delight your pre-schoolers as they enjoy the  familiar antics of going to bed.  With large expressive illustrations and  an easy rhyming pattern, children will be able to &quot;help&quot; you read  this story in no time.  This is the perfect book to share before tucking in  and turning out the lights and a great addition to home libraries.	2000-07-29
2350290:US	52793250	R3VLZOTFIF40NE	031225234X	312924571	Name Dropping	Books	4	11	12	N	N	What's in a Name...	Meet Nancy Stern, nursery school teacher with the girl next door looks and a nice studio apartment on the upper east side of New York City.  Life is easy, steady and rather unexciting until one day roses arrive for her from  someone she doesn't know;  then fancy party invitations and interesting  phone calls.  As Nancy investigates these odd occurrences, she finds that  another Nancy Stern has moved into the penthouse of her building.  She's  blond, rich, gorgeous and writes celebrity profiles for popular magazines.   She's got the kind of life that nursery school Nancy wishes for.  So when a  nice sounding man calls nursery school Nancy for a blind date, thinking  she's the other Nancy Stern, our girl goes for it pretending to be  celebrity Nancy.  So far, so good, until celebrity Nancy is found murdered  in her apartment.  Confusing?  Not really.  Jane Heller gives you a light,  witty, well written mystery full of funny scenes and irreverent dialogue.   The writing is wonderful, the characters, interesting and the story line,  just lots of fun.  Did the killer get the wrong Nancy?  Hang in there to  the very satisfying ending and find out.  This is a great book to take  along to the beach.  Read and enjoy!	2000-07-27
2354319:US	52793250	R3CSQIZSGZ9SQS	0449002985	397288126	Your Oasis on Flame Lake (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Life in White Falls Minnesota	Your Oasis on Flame Lake is the story of two families, the Lindstroms and the Herreras, living out the American dream in White Falls, Minnesota.  Except, the dream is going over a few mid-life bumps in the road, leaving  family members dissatisfied, hurt and confused.  That is, until a  catastrophic event in the Herrera family, brings all their lives back down  to earth.  This story is narrated by different family members and each  brings a different perspective to the turbulent happenings surrounding  them.  Though never maudlin or overly emotional, Ms Landvik tells a strong,  powerful story of love, loss, betrayal and forgiveness.  Her writing is  funny and witty with great incite and wisdom.  Her characters, interesting  and true to life, speak from the heart.  This is a story that pulls you  into the lives of these people and keeps you rooting for them until the  climax and very satisfying end of the book.  A story about the strong bonds  of friendship and a wonderful slice of midwestern life.	2000-07-25
2357723:US	52793250	R2ANLNPR1LNN9Q	0553579606	14890872	Ashes to Ashes: A Novel (Sam Kovac and Nikki Liska)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	The Best of the Genre	Turn off the phone and lock the door.  You're in for a roller coaster ride of twists and turns to the end of this frightening, compelling thriller.  Ashes to Ashes has it all.  It's fast paced, terrifying, suspenseful and  will keep you guessing to the very last page.  There's a serial killer  loose in Minneapolis dubbed, the Cremator, by the papers, who's been  murdering young women in public parks and then setting them on fire...Ashes  to Ashes.  The police don't have a clue until a runaway, Angie DiMarco,  witnesses the crime.  She's seen the killer's face as he cremates his last  victim, but she isn't talking.  Enter Kate Conlan, ex-FBI agent turned  victim advocate who's supposed to protect Angie and get her talking and  John Quinn, the FBI's best profiler, brought in from Washington to help  catch the killer.  They've shared a painful past, but must move forward to  catch the Cremator before he strikes again.  What happens next will keep  you on the edge of your seat for the entire book.  This is a stunning story  with great characters, riveting scenes and writing that is as good as it  gets.  The whole story pulls you in and never lets go.  Tami Hoag never  disappoints, and she's not starting now.	2000-07-22
2360032:US	52793250	R1Y8N76IXQF003	0399145664	105065636	Family Honor	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fast, Fun Read	Robert Parker has a winner with his new detective, Sunny Randall, a divorced, former cop turned Boston P.I. who owns a miniature bull terrier and really wants to be a professional painter.  She's smart, tough and very  good at her job.  This story revolves around the disappearance of a wealthy  teenager, Millicent Patton and Sunny works her way through a violent pimp,  murder and government conspiracy to solve the case.  In the process, she  gets help from her ex-husband Richie, the son of a mobster and her dearest  friend, Spike, a colorful, tough gay man.  Together this threesome make  things happen.  Parker has put together a terrific and memorable cast of  characters and has no equals when it comes to his witty one-liners and  irreverent dialogue.  The story is fast paced and entertaining with a  strong climax and satisfying ending.  Sunny Randall is a fresh new  character and hopefully, we'll be seeing more of her in the future.	2000-07-21
2361631:US	52793250	R35W4K1WJE9WQF	0553571931	707466458	The Chatham School Affair	Books	5	42	44	N	N	A Haunting, Powerful Story	In the summer of 1926, Miss Elizabeth Channing steps off the bus in Chatham, Massachusetts on Cape Cod, to teach art at the Chatham Boys School.  She will be living in a small cottage outside of town on Black  Pond, her only neighbor, a married, literature teacher, Leland Reed.  So  begins The Chatham School Affair, narrated by the headmaster's son, Henry  Griswald.  Henry takes the reader back to that year, in a spellbinding,  moving story of the events that led, to what the townspeople will always  call, the Chatham School affair.  This is not just a suspense thriller or  mystery novel, but a sensitive, compelling story of how the power of the  spoken word, once said, can never be taken back or undone and can change,  forever the course of many lives.  With his eloquent writing and subtle  plot twists, Mr. Cook keeps the reader off balance, always guessing and  never quite sure, all the way to the climactic ending.  His characters come  alive on the page and his scenes are so riveting and vivid, they are  sometimes painful to read.  A stunning story of love, loss and betrayal.   Thomas Cook deserved all the awards The Chatham School Affair won.	2000-07-20
2368359:US	52793250	R1E9M16ZTPSHQJ	0804114609	777164082	Patty Jane's House of Curl	Books	5	48	49	N	N	A Wonderful, Heartwarming Story	Patty Jane's House of Curl is the story of two Minnesota sisters, Patty Jane and Harriet and their struggles with love, loss and adversity in the 1950's and 60's.  The story begins as Patty Jane marries the best looking  man in town, Thor Rolvaag.  Within the year, Thor disappears leaving Patty  Jane pregnant, miserable and penniless.  With the help of her sister,  Harriet, Patty Jane goes to beauty school and opens the House of Curl, an  amazing beauty parlor with live harp music, Norwegian pastries and the love  and support of good friends and clients.  This is a novel that draws you  into the lives of remarkable people and keeps you rooting for them to the  very last page.  Ms Landvik's writing is crisp and witty with a wonderful  ear for dialogue and her scenes vivid and true to life.  A novel about life  at its best and worst, written with insight, wisdom and humor, Patty Jane's  House of Curl will make you laugh and cry and appreciate the strong bonds  of family and friends.	2000-07-16
2369138:US	52793250	R31AXI5VB3GJ9H	0345433475	619026162	Irresistible (Conrad Voort Novels)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Real Page Turner	Sex Crimes Detective Conrad Voort is back and better than ever in Ethan Black's new thriller, Irresistible.  New York City is in the middle of a heat wave and a knife wielding, female serial killer, Nora Clay, is on the  loose.  She quickly lures and kills off the first three names on her hit  list, leaving so little evidence that the police are totally stumped.    Voort and his partner, Mickey, are assigned this case and race to discover  the killer's identity before the next victim is found.  What they don't  know is that Voort is Nora Clay's last target and the hunter is now the  hunted.  This is a very tense, sexy, compelling novel that will grab you  from page one and keep you on the edge of your seat.  Mr. Black is a master  of suspense and keeps the heat turned up all the way to the climactic  ending.  With well developed characters and vivid, riveting scenes,   Irresistible has it all.  Once you start reading this book, plan to stay up  all night finishing it.	2000-07-15
2383359:US	52793250	R36FDTR3JUGEO0	0553105639	317255283	Places in the Dark	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A Powerful, Gripping Novel	In the fall of 1937, a mysterious woman, Dora March, steps off the bus in the small seaside town of Port Alma, Maine and enters the lives of two brothers:  Cal, who always leads with his head and William, who always  leads with his heart.  Though she stays in town only a year, her presence  changes their lives forever, leaving one dead and the other almost crazy  with guilt.  Places in the Dark is a suspenseful, compelling page turner  that keeps you off balance throughout the entire book.  Everytime you think  you have a handle on the plot and mystery, Thomas Cook turns you in a  different direction, convincing you, you're mistaken and on the wrong  track.  Though there is not a spare word in this story, the real strength  of this novel is the powerful, eloquent, vivid writing.  Each character is  beautifully drawn and developed and given a strong voice to move the story  forward to its unexpected, climactic ending.  Places in the Dark explores  the tragedy of loss, guilt and betrayal and how easily love can both  delight and destroy those we care about.  One of the best new books this  year, it's a story that shouldn't be missed.	2000-07-07
2387588:US	52793250	R2D04R56OUVAGN	0804108293	177229232	Crazy Ladies	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Michael Lee West's Debut Novel	Crazy Ladies opening chapter is so riveting and harrowing that it will immediately capture your attention and won't let you stop turning pages until the end.  This is the story of six southern women that takes place  over a forty year period from 1932 through 1972.  These women: Miss Gussie,  family matriarch, her maid Queenie, her daughters, Dorothy and Clancy Jane  and their daughters, Bitsy and Violet, take turns narrating the story,  telling a rich, compelling tale of American life during those times.  The  real strength of this book are its wonderfully drawn characters and Ms  West's smart, eloquent writing.  A novel full of life's successes and  disappointments, told with wisdom, insight and humor.  Crazy Ladies is a  story that both entertains you and breaks your heart, leaving you  breathless and wanting more.	2000-07-05
2390457:US	52793250	R3DY2YTR0HL6ET	014054285X	46744439	The Frog Prince, Continued (Picture Puffin)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A Fairy Tale with a Twist	&quot;The Princess kissed the frog.  He turned into a prince.And they lived happily ever after...&quot; Well not really.  The Princess nags; the Frog Prince has bad amphibian habits that drive her crazy and neither are living very happily.  So the Frog Prince decides to go out and find a witch to turn him back into a frog.  Along the way, he meets familiar characters from other stories and finds out that maybe life wasn't so bad after all, with the princess.  In fact, upon returning home, the Frog Prince kisses the Princess and...  This is a silly, irreverent story, told in hip language, with a wonderful twist at the end that will delight and amuse children of all ages. Steve Johnson's illustrations are marvelous and add just the right touch to compliment the story.  Great fun for the entire family, The Frog Prince Continues is a story not to be missed.	2000-07-03
2390941:US	52793250	R25ZKY6JWACB28	0786865504	186495277	World of Pies: A Novel	Books	4	9	9	N	N	World of Pies...Yummy	Karen Stolz has written a charming little book of life in Annette, Texas in the '60s and '70s.  The story begins in 1962 and twelve year old Roxanne Milner is more crazy about baseball than boys.  This was the year of the  Pie Fair, an event that changed Annette, Texas in a small way and started  Roxie on her journey to adulthood.  World of Pies is a smart, witty and  often poignant look at a young girl growing up, told with such insight and  humor, that it will vividly take many back to that time in their own lives.   Ms Stolz's characters come alive on the page and are memorable with strong  voices. Her scenes are true to life, as Roxanne moves through each rite of  passage towards adulthood.  World of Pies is a very human story and a  wonderful snapshot of small town life.	2000-07-03
2395425:US	52793250	R49925OYAZEHY	0140544518	276032073	The True Story of the Three Little Pigs	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Poor Wolf...It Wasn't his Fault	Jon Scieskza never disappoints and he's not starting now.  He's taken the story of The Three Pigs and given it a new twist.  This time, the story is told by the Big Bad Wolf.  Only he really wasn't so bad.  It was all a  silly mistake.  He was only going to the pig houses to borrow a cup of  sugar and he had a terrible sneezy cold.  And as the wolf says...&quot;The  rest is history&quot;.  Great writing with witty, hip language.  Terrific  illustrations by Lane Smith.  This is a wonderful parody that children of  all ages will enjoy and a must for all home libraries.	2000-06-30
2396155:US	52793250	RQDDW6DWJYUR8	0380729768	507436358	Sister	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Very Moving Story of Love and Loss	Sister, is the story of Abby Schiller, married, pregnant and still haunted by her abusive childhood and the disappearance of her younger brother over ten years ago.  Now, as she's about to become a mother, Abby feels the need  to revisit her past and put it to rest before the birth of her baby.  And  so she begins a journey to try to understand her abusive father, her  mother, who always looked the other way and her sensitive, artistic brother  who left at seventeen, never to be seen or heard from again.  And what a  journey it is.  Ms Ansay is a wonderful, eloquent writer and the strength  of her prose literally pulls you into the story and never lets you go.  Her  scenes are vivid and riveting.  Her characters, beautifully drawn.  This is  a compelling story of love and loss, betrayal and finally forgiveness,  written with honesty and insight.  A powerful book in its own quiet way.	2000-06-29
2398855:US	52793250	R32CQXLZ06SORT	0312205406	963436946	Hot Six	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Stephanie Plum...You Gotta Love Her	Hot Six picks up right where High Five left off and after clearing up last years cliff-hanger, Stephanie Plum, bounty hunter from hell, is back on the job.  Only, she's not really interested in the first case that comes her  way.  Her mentor, Ranger has missed his court appearance on a minor  concealed weapons charge and he's wanted for questioning, by the police, in  the death of an international, black market arms dealer.  Everybody in  Trenton is looking for Ranger, including a couple of goons who have decided  to tail Stephanie, day and night, hoping she'll lead them to him.  To make  matters even worse, Grandma Mazur has moved in with her;  she's now the  proud owner, by default, of a wacky dog and everytime she and boyfriend,  Joe Morelli start to get cozy, something happens to interrupt them.  Put it  all together and you have the makings of another wonderful romp through  Trenton with Stephanie and company.  No author puts together a better cast  of characters.   The writing is smart, witty and irreverent with dialogue,  so down to earth,  you feel like you're in the room listening to these  people.  The scenes, so true to life and vivid you'll be laughing out loud.   And, it looks like Stephanie has finally gotten her man...maybe.  Janet  Evanovich never disappoints and she's not starting now.  Do yourself a big  favor, start with One for the Money and read the whole series.	2000-06-28
2400486:US	52793250	R2TZFAYSAIPBAD	0803721145	94475287	Dinosaurs Forever	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Will Always be Dinosaurs!	Dinosaurs Forever is a delightful collection of witty, irreverent poems that take some scientific facts known about dinosaurs and combines them with funny, very hip verse.  These poems are complimented by Lynn  Munsinger's  detailed, expressive illustrations and it all adds up to one  charming, amusing book that everyone in the family will enjoy.  There's  even a pronounciation guide to help parents with some of the multi-syllable  dinosaur names.  This is a wonderful book that kids of all ages will want  to read again and again.  Share it and enjoy!	2000-06-27
2407253:US	52793250	R1ROIPH8GDF2RK	0060193646	786975429	Twice Dying: A Novel	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Good First Novel	Twice Dying, a suspense-filled debut novel begins as Carroll Monks, emergency room physician, finds a special gift left in his car from an old flame, Alison Chapley.  Alison, a psychiatrist, living on the edge, has  become concerned that her boss, Dr. Francis Jephson, is recruiting and  coaching dangerous sociopaths so that they will be found not guilty by  reason of insanity and sent to his mental facility.  Once there, he  miraculously &quot;cures&quot; these men in a very short time and sends  them back out into society.  He receives prestige.  His facility receives  money and grants.  What happens next will keep you reading all night long.   This is a dark, compelling, page turner you won't be able to put down.  The  writing is very gritty, the dialogue, true to life and the characters,  interesting, though they could have been fleshed out a bit more. The ending  is a big surprise that will keep you on the edge of your seat.  A good  first novel that's easily read in one sitting.  Hopefully, this isn't the  last we see of Carroll Monks.	2000-06-23
2409963:US	52793250	R1CCPSIRXNXVDL	0375701214	508561158	The Diving Bell and the Butterfly: A Memoir of Life in Death	Books	5	12	15	N	N	A Wonderful Memoir	Jean-Dominique Bauby, editor and chief of French Elle magazine, suffered a catastrophic stroke at 43, that left him in a coma for twenty days.  When he awoke, he found his mind was unimpaired but that he was completely  paralyzed, &quot;like a mind in a jar&quot;, except for the ability to  blink his left eye.  With the use of this one small link to the outside  world and his determination to continue living a full life, if only in his  mind, he sets out to write this memoir, The Diving Bell and the Butterfly,  one letter at a time.  This is an extraordinary, uplifting,  eloquently  written book, told with wisdom, honesty and humor.  A triumph of the human  spirit, it is a story you won't soon forget, nor want to.	2000-06-22
2411943:US	52793250	RNGQES6M13ZL6	0689830173	164576376	A Cake for Herbie	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Lottie and Herbie Never Disappoint	A Cake for Herbie is a sensitive, charming story your pre-schoolers will adore.  Herbie the duck reads about a poetry contest and with the encouragement of his best friend Lottie the chicken, he enters.  He stays  up all night working hard on his poetry, only to be laughed off the stage.   Sad and disappointed, he walks into a restaurant where his poetry is  appreciated and he wins his own special prize.  Petra Mathers charming and  amusing text is only outdone by her wonderful, expressive illustrations.   This is a touching story your children will want you to read over and over  again.  You don't want to miss this very special book.	2000-06-21
2415417:US	52793250	R2WBMEY83IRK8G	0385495846	437097764	Demolition Angel	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Robert Crais has Written a Winner	Demolition Angel begins with the harrowing scene of a bomb squad member being blown to bits and never lets you go.  Crais introduces a new character, Detective Carol Starkey, a former bomb squad technician who was  almost killed three years ago in a similar bombing that killed her partner  and lover.  Left scarred both physically and emotionally and drinking to  excess, Carol gets to work to find this serial bomber before he strikes  again.  What she begins to realize, as she investigates, is this terrorist  is after bomb squad techs, and she is the one that got away.  This is a  fast paced, compelling story with strong, realistic characters.  The  writing is gritty and true to life.  The scenes vivid and frightening.  Mr.  Crais has obviously done his homework on the bomb squad and bomb building  techniques and this adds real credibility to the story.  Demolition Angel  will put you on the edge of your seat and keep you there to its very  satisfying ending.  A terrific, suspense-filled read that will pull you in  and keep you turning pages all night long.	2000-06-19
2422647:US	52793250	R3VX1BU0V4HFXV	0553571923	536473441	Breakheart Hill	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Powerful, Thought Provoking Novel	Breakheart Hill is the story of Kelli Troy, the new high school student from Baltimore, whose badly beaten and battered body is found on Breakheart Hill in Choctaw, Alabama.  This is an amazing story, told in a series of  flashbacks by the town doctor, Ben Wade, of how the lives of Kelli's  friends and acquaintances were changed forever, by this incident.  The  writing both eloquent and riveting pulls you into the story and never lets  you go.  The characters are beautifully drawn and developed and the scenes,  so vivid, they jump off the page.  This is a powerful, compelling story of  love, loss and betrayal with an unexpected climax and ending that will keep  you thinking about this novel for a long, long time.  Breakheart Hill is a  masterpiece of suspenseful storytelling.  Read it...you won't be  disappointed.	2000-06-15
2425333:US	52793250	R28KW6P70EKYJP	1573221430	414190456	The GoodLife	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Terrific  First Novel	Keith Scribner has written both a psychological drama and a suspense thriller in his first novel.  The Goodlife, based on an actual event, begins with the kidnapping of a chemical company executive and follows the  crime over a three day period.  The plot unfolds through the points of view  of the five main characters, moving the story forward, from different  directions, to it's completion.  This is a very complex, yet readable,  compelling story.  The writing is gritty, riveting  and  true to life and  Mr. Scribner has a real talent for dialogue.  The characters are  painstakingly drawn and developed  and the scenes so vivid they almost jump  off the page.  A tight, suspenseful, fast-paced page turner.  Keith  Scribner doesn't disappoint.	2000-06-14
2429444:US	52793250	R1H8C4BF7EGL4R	0689801009	198191765	Yo, Aesop!: Get a Load of These Fables	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fractured Fables...Fun for the Entire Family	Yo, Aesop! Get a Load of These Fables, is a collection of updated, silly, funny, irreverent stories.  No fox and grapes, no lion and mouse, Paul Rosenthal has taken these fables and given them a very modern twist with  wonderful, hip text, large colorful cartoon-like illustrations and a note  from Aesop himself, at the end of each tale.  Your kids will be laughing  out loud, at the antics of the characters in these stories.  A delightful  book for your whole family to share and a great addition to any home  library.	2000-06-12
2433388:US	52793250	R51FCY6GDB95A	1571310169	827061641	The Empress of One	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Small Town Life in the 30's	The Empress of One, Faith Sullivan's follow-up novel to The Cape Ann, isn't really a sequel, but the story of another Harvester, Minnesota citizen, Sally Wheeler.  This novel often overlaps The Cape Ann and because  of this, you'll relive scenes from the first book, from a different  perspective.  The story surrounds the downward spiral of Stella Wheeler,  Sally's mother, her depression and eventual institutionalization and the  impact it has on her family and their relationships with others.  Like The  Cape Ann, this is a beautifully written novel with great attention to  detail.  The characters, so well drawn, come alive on the page.  This is a  story of love and loss, happiness, sorrow, betrayal and finally  forgiveness.  Though not as strong a book as The Cape Ann and a bit too  long, The Empress of One is a powerful story.  Ms. Sullivan doesn't  disappoint.	2000-06-10
2433929:US	52793250	RA8QRKJKJ3DVR	0312966970	935167398	Four to Score (Stephanie Plum, No. 4) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Four to Score...A Real Winner	Stephanie's back and better than ever with Four to Score, a funny, sexy romp through Trenton, New Jersey.  Stephanie Plum, bounty hunter from hell, is on the trail of Maxine Nowicki, who forgot about her court appearance  and jumped bail.  In the process of tracking Maxine down, she uncovers  murderers, counterfeiters and a fire bomber.  Unfortunately, Stephanie's  apartment is at the top of the fire bomber's hit list and she moves in with  Joe Morelli.  Now the fun really begins.  As always, Ms Evanovich fills her  story with quirky, wacky characters that just add to the fun and we get to  see a lot more of the Plum and Morelli families.  The writing is smart and  down to earth and Ms Evanovich has a wonderful ear for dialogue.  You'll  laugh out loud at the antics of this fine cast.  Do yourself a favor, start  with One for the Money and read the whole series.  Ms Evanovich doesn't  disappoint.	2000-06-09
2435660:US	52793250	R37F9MTSJ4Q6TM	0312966091	809706185	Three to Get Deadly (Stephanie Plum, No. 3) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	75	78	N	N	Go Get 'em Stephanie	Janet Evanovich has done it again.  Three to Get Deadly, begins as Stephanie Plum, ex-lingerie buyer turned bounty hunter is given the go to pick up Mo Bedemier.  Uncle Mo, as he's known in &quot;the burg&quot;,  Stephanie's working class, Trenton neighborhood, owns an ice-cream  parlor/candy store, has missed his court appearance and seems to have left  town.  Stephanie's on the case and is soon caught in the middle of  anti-drug vigilantes, murdered men and porno films.  This is another  terrific ride through Trenton with Ms Evanovich's cast of unrivaled,  wonderful, quirky characters and  Stephanie gets lots of help from her  mentor, Ranger and vice cop, Joe Morelli.  The writing is witty, irreverent  and down to earth, with dialogue that will have you laughing out loud.   Though the mystery itself is a bit of a stretch, it doesn't matter, because  spending time in Trenton, with Stephanie and company, is such a joy.  Start  with One for the Money and read all the books in this series.  They will  put a smile on your face.	2000-06-08
2439109:US	52793250	R3G3TP527A8550	0316690619	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	1	7	10	N	N	A Terrible Disappointment	Cradle and All, begins with two virgins, one in Ireland and one in Boston who are both pregnant.  One supposedly carries the Son of God and the other the Son of Satan.  At the same time, the entire world is overwhelmed with  epidemics and natural disasters.  The Catholic church sends two detectives,  one a former nun, the other a priest to solve all these mysteries.   Interesting premise, but Patterson doesn't deliver.  This book is  contrived, confusing and poorly written.  The characters are all one  dimensional and the plot has no depth, mystery or suspense.  The entire  book reads like a very bad movie of the week.  A total disappointment.   Don't bother with this one...there are too many good books out there to  read.	2000-06-07
2439112:US	52793250	R365PQ8DIHGKAA	0684196387	876638734	Two for the Dough (Stephanie Plum, No. 2) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Stephanie's Back and Better than Ever	Two for the Dough begins as Stephanie Plum, bounty hunter from hell, is hired to find neighborhood bad boy, Kenny Mancuso, who's accused of killing his best friend and jumping bail.  With the help of her mentor, Ranger and  vice cop, Joe Morelli, Stephanie's hot on the case, finding a lot more than  she expected, including lost army coffins, gunrunners and murderers.  This  is a fast paced, funny, very witty novel with scenes that will have you  laughing out loud.  Ms Evanovich brings back her quirky, wacky supporting  cast and we get to spend a lot more time with Plum family.  The writing is  wonderful, down to earth and the irreverent dialogue is unrivaled.  In the  end Stephanie gets her man, in more ways than one.  All of the books in  this series are a real treat.  Do yourself a favor...start with One for the  Money and read them all.	2000-06-07
2439470:US	52793250	R2QWO8FGYIA19P	0670874752	12955624	Cows Can't Fly	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Simply Wonderful!	Cows Can't Fly is a delightful, imaginative tale all pre-schoolers will love,.  This silly, funny story is told in short, four line rhyming passages and accompanied by large, expressive illustrations that will charm  and amuse your youngsters.  The simple rhyming pattern makes it easy for  kids to &quot;help&quot; you read and they can use the colorful pictures to  find the right rhyming word.  A terrific book that kids will want to hear  over and over again and a great addition to all home libraries.	2000-06-06
2440567:US	52793250	R35JSFPJYRDWVI	0060194405	14304921	In Her Defense	Books	5	42	44	N	N	In Her Defense...A Real Winner	In Her Defense, Stephen Horn's debut novel, is a compelling legal thriller you won't be able to put down, no matter how hard you try.  The story begins as Frank O'Connell, down on his luck defense attorney, is hired to  represent Ashley Bronson, rich Washington socialite, accused of murdering  an old family friend.  To make her defense even trickier, Ashley admits to  pulling the trigger.  From this point on, the story pulls you in and never  lets go.  This is a fast paced, exciting, plausible thriller with plot  twists that keep you guessing to the very end. The characters are terrific,  well drawn and interesting.  And, the writing is very entertaining, with  witty and irreverent dialogue.  Mr. Horn obviously knows his way around  Washington, the Justice Department and the courtroom and his insight lends  real credibility to the story.  A strong climax and satisfying ending  finish the story off and the last chapter is just icing on the cake.  A  great read that's destined for the best sellers list.  I'm already looking  forward to Stephen Horn's next book.	2000-06-06
2443328:US	52793250	R1RYFD16JOD7E9	0670880418	623769804	Summer Reading Is Killing Me (Time Warp Trio)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Absolutely Terrific!	The Time Warp Trio set out on their best adventure yet, when Fred leaves their school's summer reading list stuck inside the pages of their time travel vehicle, &quot;The Book&quot;.  Now, the three are stuck in  literature, where the bad and evil characters are out to get all the good  ones and take over the stories.  This is a wonderfully written, witty,  funny story that will have your kids laughing out loud.  Perfect for third  through sixth graders, kids will recognize characters from stories they've  read and some that parents and teachers have read to them.  A page turner  to the end, this is the perfect book to read once the school year has  ended.  The only negative thing I can say about Summer Reading is Killing  Me, is that it's over way too soon.	2000-06-04
2443837:US	52793250	R1P191TWC30I9R	0140119795	762966469	The Cape Ann (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	66	70	N	N	A Masterpiece	The Cape Ann is the story of a mid-west, depression era family's life, told through the eyes of their daughter, Lark Erhardt.  As the book opens, Lark is only six years old and already starting to understand how  complicated life can be for the people around her.  Faith Sullivan draws  you into the daily lives of the citizens of Harvester, Minnesota so  completely, that you become part of the novel, observing life's happiness  and sorrows and the power struggle between Lark's parents.  This book is  beautifully written and the characters are so well drawn and developed,  they come alive on the page.  A wonderful, poignant, touching story of a  loss of innocence, that will stay with you for a long, long time.	2000-06-04
2446420:US	52793250	R2ZMH3SXZUQP30	0374310017	767185418	Buttons	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An Old Fashioned Fairy Tale	Brock Cole's, Buttons, begins...Once upon a time and after a very silly, funny, satisfying story, has a happily ever after, ending.  Buttons will delight children of every age, as three daughters are sent out into the  world, by their mother, to find new buttons for their father's trousers.   Mr. Cole's beautiful water color illustrations add just the right old  fashioned touch to this story.  The perfect bedtime story for your little  ones.  Read and enjoy!	2000-06-02
2449795:US	52793250	R2LVUYSYHBC5Z8	0374335117	758254672	The Huckabuck Family: and How They Raised Popcorn in Nebraska and Quit and Came Back	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An American Fairy Tale	Carl Sandburg's Huckabuck Family will delight and charm children of every age with a story of family pride and optimism.  When the Huckabucks Nebraska barn burns down and all their popcorn pops, they decide to go on  the road and wait for a sign to tell them when to come back home.  Each  year they move to a new town and Papa finds a new job.  The Huckabucks may  have good luck, or bad, but they always have each other.  David Small's  illustrations add just the right touch to the story and are so detailed  that even the farm animals have facial expressions.  So, sit down and take  a trip across the country and back with the Huckabucks.  I promise, you  won't be disappointed.  This is a wonderful book the whole family can  share.	2000-06-01
2453164:US	52793250	R1NRAJZJT7ALMZ	0689826257	979059717	Everything I Know About Pirates	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Everything you wanted to know about pirates...and then some	Everything I Know About Pirates is one terrific book that your kids will be fighting over.  Tom Lichtenheld asks and answers many of those age old questions that we've always wondered about.  For instance, you can find out  about pirate clothes and accessories, pirate ships and pirate maps;  why  pirates look mean, smell bad and walk the plank...and this is just the  start.  And the text is complimented by wonderful, busy illustrations that  everyone will love.  There's even a name chart to help you pick your own  pirate name and a handy glossary to explain pirate words and terms.  A rip  roarin' time for the whole family.  This book is a must for all home  libraries.	2000-05-30
2454821:US	52793250	R2PCB4C35CKQI4	0060191872	995699181	The Run	Books	4	17	21	N	N	Good, but Predictable	The Run is a fast paced thriller about an old Stuart Woods character from Grassroots, Will Lee.  He's now a democratic senator from Georgia and making a run for the presidency.  To make things a little more interesting,  he's also being hunted down by a right-wing militia group assassin.  The  story is compelling, tight and very readable.  It's obvious that Mr. Woods  has done his homework on both the Washington scene and the primary and  election process and these details add real credibility to the story.  The  climax and ending are predictable... there are no surprises in this novel,  but the premise is good, the main characters well drawn and it all adds up  to a very enjoyable read.	2000-05-29
2454837:US	52793250	R2UZ3WC2MFQ0TF	0345443284	471049102	While I Was Gone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	165	182	N	N	Not Sue Miller's Best Work	While I Was Gone is the story of a fifty-something professional woman(she's a veterinarian), with a great husband, terrific daughters and a distant past that comes back to haunt her.  During the 60's, the main  character, Jo, lived in a group house where one of her roommates was  brutally murdered.  Now, many years later, another housemate, Eli Mayhew,  moves to her small New England town and Jo gets caught up in her past and  with this man.  This story reads like a soap opera or movie of the week.   Jo continually makes bad decisions that almost ruin her marriage and the  relationship she has with her daughters.  I found the story line very  frustrating and at times unbelievable.  The characters were not as well  drawn and developed as they should have been and their thoughts and actions  never made sense to me.  Ms Miller is a good writer, with a wonderful ear  for dialogue.  But, this novel got bogged down in detail and came to a very  unsatisfying ending.  Readers of Sue Miller will probably like this book,  but it left me flat.	2000-05-29
2457010:US	52793250	R2OF6N2I7FL3FK	1569471827	720968605	The Suburbs of Heaven	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Hard Life in New Hampshire	Merle Drown has written a sad, poignant yet engaging novel about a family's hard life and downward spiral in rural New Hampshire.  The story of the day to day misery of the Hutchins family, as life's troubles bear  down on them, should make you want to put the book down and say  &quot;forget it, enough already&quot;.  But this book is written with such  insight, humor and hope that you'll keep turning pages to the end.  The  novel is told from the different viewpoints of the five Hutchins family  members. Each adds his or her feelings of past and current events, moving  the story foward to its climactic ending.  The real strength of this book  is the amazing character development and  eloquent writing.  Mr. Drown has  a wonderful ear for dialogue.  A book about despair and the beaten down  lives of a rural family and yet, uplifting in its own way.	2000-05-27
2460545:US	52793250	R3U5DKAGMFD45D	0440412897	916656689	The Chocolate Touch	Books	5	44	53	N	N	Great Story that  gets your Kids Reading	The Chocolate Touch is a take-off of the King Midas story.But, instead of turning everything he touches to gold, John Midas finds that everything he touches with his lips, turns to chocolate. Of course, at first he thinks this is great.  But as time passes, John finds life is getting difficult.  When he forgets and kisses his mother, he really begins to panic.  This is a classic, be careful what you wish for story, that all kids will love.  Easy to read with funny story events that keep kids turning pages to the end.  Highly recommended for 2nd - 4th graders.	2000-05-25
2460751:US	52793250	R1I9KNLWYFPXGK	0689831609	525209764	Cdb!	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fun for the Whole Family	CDB (See the Bee) is truly a wonderful book of letter puzzles everyone in the family will enjoy.  William Steig has included his colorful cartoon pictures to help decipher the puzzles and once you and your youngster(s)  get the hang of it you'll be able to figure out even the hardest ones.   There's even an answer key included at the back of the book.  This book is  a treasure for the whole family to solve and solve again.  A must for all  home libraries.	2000-05-25
2462771:US	52793250	R23N4EXXBNR8ZC	0395854032	401143196	Polkabats and Octopus Slacks: 14 Stories	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Great Poems for Everyone	Polkabats and Octopus Slacks, a new book of poem/stories byCalef Brown will definately be an instant favorite.  Kids will love the hip language and funny rhyming schemes, as well as the colorful, very creative illustrations.  Where else can you read about the &quot;Funky Snowman&quot; or the &quot;Kansas City Octopus&quot;?  A silly, wonderful book the whole family will enjoy sharing.	2000-05-24
2463426:US	52793250	R2S1R1W6GGLQPM	0684196387	876638734	Two for the Dough (Stephanie Plum, No. 2) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Stephanie's Back and Better than Ever	Two for the Dough picks up just where One for the Money left off.  Stephanie Plum, bounty hunter from hell, is back looking for a neighborhood  bad boy, Kenny Mancuso, who shot and killed one of his friends.  While in  pursuit, she uncovers lost coffins, stolen weapons and gun runners.   Fortunately, she gets some help from Ranger and that hunk, Joe Morelli.   The supporting cast is back and funnier than ever.  Grandma Mazur, alone,  will keep you laughing out loud.  And, you get a little longer look into  Stephanie's family and love life.  Ms Evanovich's writing is crisp, gritty  and irreverent and her dialogue, true to life.  Just a pleasure to read.   Have yourself a great time and read the whole series.	2000-05-23
2468440:US	52793250	R2650VCJRIDPKE	067088135X	388161800	Squids Will Be Squids: Fresh Morals, Beastly Fables	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fresh, Fun and Fabulous	Squids Will Be Squids is a wacky collection of &quot;new&quot; fables that, as the introduction states:  &quot;Aesop might have told if he were alive today...&quot;  Jon Scieszka has outdown himself with these wonderful  stories.  Each is short, silly and to the point, written in kid-speak, and  ends with a moral kids will easily understand.  The colorful illustrations  by Lane Smith add just the right touch to compliment each fable.  A  terrific book to share and enjoy with the whole family, over and over  again.	2000-05-21
2469795:US	52793250	R8FC0GFJRP5I0	0312972733	590289457	Acts of Honor	Books	3	5	9	N	N	A Military Mystery	Acts of Honor has a great premise, but lacks the bite and tension of a really good suspense novel.  Dr. Sara West, civilian psychiatrist, is drawn into an Air Force mystery, when she is sent to a secret mental facility to try to help five Air Force intelligence officers who have totally lost their minds.  During her very short tenure at the hospital...less than two weeks, she falls madly in love and cures one patient, solves the mystery of what happened to these men and uses herself as bait to catch the bad guys.  This is all a little over the top and more than a bit unbelievable.  Ms Hinze could have left out the love affair, as it added nothing to the story line and seemed ridiculous.  The story needed to be tighter; it tended to get bogged down on silly details at times.  And, the climax and ending were very weak and unexciting.  This is a book that needed a better editor.  Not the best I've read...but not an altogether bad book either.	2000-05-20
2471671:US	52793250	RD7XCXC9O89A7	0763607681	750349798	Howdi Do (Radunsky/Guthrie)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Woody Guthrie at his Best	Howdi Do is the narrative of the Woodie Guthrie song of the same title and it works as well in book form as in song.  The text is cheerful and silly and complimented by the colorful illustrations of Vladimir Radunsky.  Kids will love the simple rhymes of the verse and the silly words of the chorus.  With the bonus CD of the song included inside the front cover, the whole family will be singing this folk song in no time.  Read together, sing together and enjoy!	2000-05-18
2471876:US	52793250	R3SXJZF8I2JBHG	0525461477	638316292	The Magic Hill	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Magic Story	The Magic Hill is an old fashioned fairy tale, complete with a happily ever after ending about a young princess who makes flowers grow wherever she walks.  A.A. Milne wrote this delightful story 75 years ago, but it is  as fresh and charming now, as I'm sure it was then.  The illustrations by  Isabel Bodor Brown are very special, beautifully drawn and compliment the  text.  An old story that will become a new classic.  The Magic Hill is a  treasure for the whole family to enjoy again and again.	2000-05-18
2472668:US	52793250	R109GTCHKZ8ZUM	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	1	6	9	N	N	The Biggest Disappointment of the Year	After reading both The Red Dragon and The Silence of the Lambs, I couldn't wait to get my hands on Hannibal.  After waiting eleven years for this sequel, I expected the same suspense filled, totally frightening thriller,  Harris had written before.  Unfortunately, this is not the case.  This book  does not fill you with terror.  Instead, many of the really  &quot;scary&quot; scenes are just silly and disgusting.  The characters, so  well developed in the two previous novels, have become cartoon characters.   The plot is not suspenseful, but very predictable and gets bogged down in  many places.  And, the ending is ridiculous and unbelievable.  The one  element that made The Red Dragon and The Silence of the Lambs such great  books, stories you were afraid to read when you were home alone, was their  plausibility;  the idea that this could really happen.  That feeling is  completely absent in this novel.  The only positive thing I can say about  Hannibal, is that you get a very nice walking tour of Florence, Italy.  But  of course, that's not what I was looking for, from Thomas Harris.  If you  want to read a fast paced, edge of your seat thriller, that keeps you up  all night, this is NOT the book.  A total disappointment!	2000-05-18
2473699:US	52793250	RC3JA4XMKFTCG	0380730359	165181769	Gone, Baby, Gone: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lehane's Done it Again	Gone Baby Gone begins with the kidnapping of a four year girl and takes off from there at break-neck speed.  Patrick Kenzie and Angie Gennaro really don't want to get involved in a missing child case, but feel pushed  to take it anyway.  Their investigation leads to murder and mayhem with  many plot twists and a shocking ending.  This is a fast paced, edge of your  seat mystery with lots of action.  The writing is vivid and gritty.  And,  nobody draws and developes characters better than Lehane.  A very  compelling and plausible story.  Once you start it, you'll be reading all  night.	2000-05-17
2475479:US	52793250	R1UE12SK48NBHF	0764114387	505388334	Presidential Elections and Other Cool Facts	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Terrific!	Syl Sobel has taken a complicated subject and made it understandable and interesting for the elementary school student.  This book is easy to read, with short chapters and filled with a ton of information.  It also includes  a lot of fun facts that everyone will enjoy about different presidents,  their wives and some of our more interesting elections.  A wonderful  resource with a glossary, index and bibliography.	2000-05-16
2475762:US	52793250	RZJIRB8BKONU0	0805061924	810734707	Open Wide: Tooth School Inside	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Everything you ever wanted to know about teeth	Open Wide Tooth School Inside is a silly, funny, fast paced book for the whole family.  Smart, hip text with a disguised lesson about tooth care and the dentist.  Terrific, colorful illustrations. And even a quiz to let kids show what they've learned.  Just an all around great book.	2000-05-16
2477225:US	52793250	R2JNC8ZLAJZG5Y	0446606081	198340912	The Ax	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Very Compelling	The Ax is not a very likable book.  But that said, you won't be able to put it down.  Thank goodness, it can easily be read in one sitting.  The story begins as Burke Devore, laid off paper mill, middle manager,  completes a plan to get a new job.  He's been out of work for over a year  and though he's been on many interviews, has not gotten a new position.   After analyzing why this has happened, he concocts a way to eliminate the  competition for a very specific job and puts his plan into motion.  This is  a terrifying novel, told by the main character that will leave you on the  edge of your seat.  The writing is compact, gritty and true to life.   There's not a spare word in the story.   And, Burke Devore is so well drawn  and developed, you believe he might live right next door to you.  A good  novel that has the  one element that makes a suspense thriller great...it's  plausible.    Read The Ax, you won't be disappointed.	2000-05-16
2477304:US	52793250	RR7QANWHKB3YO	0060191821	796925803	Worst Fears Realized	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Disappointing...My Worst Fears Were Realized	What has happened to Stuart Woods?  The master of the mystery thriller has taken a real vacation in Worst Fears Realized.  The story begins with a pretty compelling scene and what looks to be a good thriller in the making.   Unfortunately, that's it...it's downhill from that point on.  Stone  Barrington, the sexy, smart, ex-cop/lawyer has become a cartoon character,  totally inane and unbelievable.  It's sad to think that this is the same  great character from New York Dead.  But worse yet, the story is silly and  implausable and has absolutely no merit.  Don't waste your time on this  one.  There are too many good novels out there to read.	2000-05-16
2479802:US	52793250	R2ZPPE0KI3OV6Q	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Great Fun	One For the Money is the beginning of a wonderful series by Janet Evanovich.  The story takes place in Trenton, New Jersey.  Stephanie Plum, an out of work lingerie buyer, goes to work for a bail bondsman, as a skip  tracer.  Her first bail jumper is a cop, accused of murder, and a man she  has an interesting past with.  Stephanie is a down to earth, down on her  luck, kind of gal and you'll be rooting for her from the start.  The rest  of the cast of characters are just wonderful, quirky and fun, people you  want to know better.  The writing is crisp, irreverent and witty.  You'll  be laughing out loud...that's a promise.  Trenton is gritty and drawn and  developed so well, you'll start to know your way around town.  This is the  first of a terrific series.  And, as you watch Stephanie work at getting  her man, you'll be hooked, for sure.  Read the whole series and enjoy them  all!	2000-05-14
2481100:US	52793250	RSV7EQZRK1DIY	0805058028	697303623	The Scrambled States of America	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Just Wonderful	What would happen if all the states in the USA decided they were bored and wanted to move around, see new places, talk to new friends?  Read The Scrambled States of America and find out.  A clever, witty, funny book with  busy, colorful illustrations that compliment the text.  A joy to read with  a geography lesson in disguise.  My kids couldn't get enough of this book.   A must for all home libraries.  And, make sure you get Laurie Keller's next  book, Open Wide Tooth School Inside.  It's just as wonderful.	2000-05-13
2481336:US	52793250	R1JCIX9FYAPAGJ	067976402X	877433184	Snow Falling On Cedars	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Stunning	Snow Falling on Cedars is a beautifully written story of the trial of a Japanese-American man charged with murder in the death of a white fisherman.  The story is not just a simple whodunit with a few twists and  turns, but the rich history of a small town on Puget Sound and what  happened to it when their Japanese citizens were sent away to internment  camps during World War II.  This is a story of love and loss, racism,  bigotry and finally forgiveness that will leave you breathless.  The  characters are beautifully drawn and the scenes so vivid, you become part  of the novel.  A story that is both tragic and uplifting at the same time.   A monument to the written word, David Guterson deserved all the awards his  book won.	2000-05-13
2482749:US	52793250	R18FWXZPRW2OED	1559211407	43936206	84, Charing Cross Road	Books	5	42	42	N	N	A Treasure	84 Charing Cross Road is a small book of correspondence between Helene Hanff, the author and Frank Doel, a London book seller.  These letters chronicle their lives over a twenty year period from 1949 to 1969.  Though  never meeting, they share a very special friendship, almost a chaste love  affair, that extends to his co-workers and family.  This is a charming and  delightful book about two people you come to care for through their letters  and wish you knew in person.  A must for your home library.  A book you'll  read over and over again and share with friends.	2000-05-12
2483238:US	52793250	R2V4FJJWR0QEX	068815333X	240949428	Prayers for Rain	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Best Novel He's Written So Far...	Dennis Lehane never disappoints and he's not starting now.  All the players are back, Patrick Kenzie, Angie Gennaro, Bubba Rogowski and they're better than ever.  The story begins with the suicide of an old Kenzie  client and takes off from there at a whirlwind pace.  The villian, a  sociopath who wages psychological warfare on his victims before he kills  them, is as scary as they come.  The writing and dialogue are gritty and  true to life and the scenes are so vivid that you'll spend this novel on  the edge of your seat.  A real page-turner, not to be missed.  Do yourself  a favor, go back and read all of Lehane's books.  You won't be  disappointed.	2000-05-12
2483637:US	52793250	R2FL8PM40R68NI	0789425793	937346708	How to Catch An Elephant	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lots of laughs and giggles	How do you catch an elephant?  Easy...all you need are three cakes, two raisins, one telescope and a pair of tweezers.  This is a silly, funny book that will charm your pre-schoolers.  The repetitive format makes for easy reading and younger children will be able to &quot;help&quot; you read.  The illustrations are simple and colorful. An all around winner.  You can't go wrong with this book.	2000-05-11
2484606:US	52793250	ROPGQJXNRLI1E	067084487X	569134622	The Stinky Cheese Man and Other Fairly Stupid Tales	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fractured fairy tales	This is a book for the entire family.  From pre-schooler to grandma, everyone will be laughing.  Where else can you read stories like:  The Tortoise and the Hair, Little Red Running Shorts and Jack's Bean Problem.   These are silly, special, irreverent stories with illustrations that are  wonderful...very Salvatore Dali.  A book that will be read over and over  again and a must for all home libraries.	2000-05-11
2485344:US	52793250	RSZ33T2VNI7WO	0763601314	250464165	Sing, Sophie!	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sing Sophie is a treasure	As Sophie Adams says, &quot;I looooooooove to sing!&quot; and so she does.  This is a really special book.  Charming story line with a real cowgirl twang to the language.  Great illustrations that add to the story.  And,  songs...wonderful songs that Sophie makes up and sings to her family.  And  you'll sing too.  It's impossible not to.  A family favorite and a must for  all home libraries.	2000-05-11
2487818:US	52793250	RKIO3CHC5GI0F	0375411550	331831848	The Bluest Eye	Books	5	265	284	N	N	A powerful story	The Bluest Eye, the story of a young girl's tortured life, is not a story you can &quot;like&quot;.  It reads like your worst nightmares, very disturbing and very graphic.  It takes a strong stomach to get through this  novel.  But, this is just what makes the book a masterpiece, that Ms  Morrison can draw such powerful feelings from readers.  Toni Morrison has  grown as a writer.  But this book, her first, takes you to a world most  didn't know existed and evokes almost unbearably strong emotions.  A must  read for lovers of great literature.  This is not a book you read for  pleasure.  It's a book you read for the power of the written word.	2000-05-09
2489856:US	52793250	R240MRO76AY1I8	0375406530	663303744	Waiting	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Waiting...	Ha Jin has written an interesting love story of a Chinese doctor in an arranged loveless marriage who falls in love and wants to marry a nurse.  His wife must either agree to a divorce or by law, he must &quot;wait&quot;  18 years to have the divorce granted by the government.  His very old world  wife will not grant him the divorce, so he spends the years waiting in a  chaste love affair with the nurse.  This novel, though beautifully and  eloquently written, would have made a much better short story or novella.   Though the exploration of the struggle between contemporary and traditional  values and the politics of modern China were compelling, I found myself  &quot;waiting&quot; for the book to end.  This is a love story with an  interesting twist but an expected.  I don't understand why this book won  the National Book Award.	2000-05-08
2489973:US	52793250	R8042X26D90CY	0689817703	50426817	Hurry Hurry Mary Dear	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Delightful	This is a charming story of a country wife getting ready for winter while her lazy husband gives lots of instructions, but does no work.  Don't worry, she gets him back in a very humorous way at the end of the book.   Easy to read, nice rhyming pattern and wonderful illustrations.  A fun book  to be read over and over again.  A favorite in our house.	2000-05-08
2491946:US	52793250	R1RAQFWYCKOL09	0316327670	130876850	Whatever Happened to Humpty Dumpty?: And Other Surprising Sequels to Mother Goose Rhymes	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fun for the whole family	These silly and irreverent sequels to some of Mother Goose's rhymes, written in language children will love, will leave family members of every age laughing.  The accompanying illustrations are clever and humorous and  add just the right touch.  A wonderful book for everyone.  I recommend it  highly.	2000-05-07
2492075:US	52793250	R2HQ88XFHZM9OV	0439078172	355653926	Henny-Penny	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fabulous	Jane Wattenberg's updated retelling of Henny Penny is full of rhyme, rhythm and very hip, very colorful language.  My five year old can't get enough of this book.  The photo illustrations are terrific with some silly  surprises thrown in that all children will love to find and figure out.   This is one fast paced, action packed, amazing book.  Your family will love  it.	2000-05-07
2492077:US	52793250	R30WKLWI8OQTDC	061805183X	445526563	Dutch Sneakers and Flea Keepers: 14 More Stories	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Wonderful story poems for everyone	Calef Brown has written a collection of poems that are real winners.  They are easy to read with modern wacky language and rhymes that kids will just love.  The accompanying illustrations are rich in color and detail and  compliment each poem.  Everyone in the family will enjoy this book.	2000-05-07
2492494:US	52793250	R2PY72T8A3S5SE	0670878553	676865757	Joseph Had a Little Overcoat (Caldecott Honor Book)	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Wonderful story...wonderful pictures	This is a charming, simple book with vibrant, busy pictures that just delights my five year old.  The format of the story repeats itself over and over so that your little one can easily &quot;help&quot; you read.  The  pictures are terrific and full of detail.  My son enjoys spending time  looking for new and hidden things on each page.  Overall, a nice thoughtful  book.  I recommend it highly.	2000-05-07
2496742:US	52793250	RUFNFYJHUXAFR	0060926201	434382076	She Flew the Coop: A Novel Concerning Life, Death, Sex and Recipes in Limoges, Louisiana	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A superb book	Michael Lee West has written a wonderfully insightful book about life in sleepy Limoges, Louisiana.  The story takes place in 1952 and opens with the attempted suicide of a pregnant local teenager.  It then moves forward  from the viewpoint of eight very colorful citizens and you learn all about  Limoges town life, secrets and idiosyncrasies.  Each narrator's story line  moves the plot forward from  a different direction and then Ms West ties it  all together, very satisfyingly, at the end.  The writing is terrific,  witty and irreverent.  The scenes and settings, vivid.  And both really  capture the tone of the deep south.  And as an added bonus...recipes.  For  what would the south be without great cooking.  All in all a terrific book,  chock full of emotions, to read more than once and share with others.	2000-05-04
2498066:US	52793250	R2S42BL25Y7CM4	0805059555	181097130	"O" Is for Outlaw	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Kinsey Millhone...You gotta love her	Sue Grafton continues her alphabet series with a mystery Kinsey Millhone fans will love.  This story takes you back to Kinsey's first marriage and there's nothing a true Millhone groupie loves more than to find out about  her past.  The case revolves around a 15 year old murder that her then cop  husband, Mickey, was charged with, but never convicted of, at trial.  The  story is fast-paced, full of witty and irreverent dialogue and Kinsey  idiosyncrasies.  As always, a lot of fun to read and sad to finish, knowing  you'll have to wait another year for the next one.	2000-05-03
2499008:US	52793250	REU1P5F4O5WAB	014118065X	55805723	The Return of the Soldier (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A masterpiece	The Return of the Soldier is a very small book, less than 100 pages, set during the first World War, that will stay with you for a long, long time.  West writes about the relationship of three very different women, a wife,  spinster cousin and old love, to each other and to the soldier sent home  from the front with amnesia.  This story is beautifully written and  explores many themes, including classism, elitism, true love and hate.   Each character is fully developed, each setting, vivid and though there is  not a spare word in this book, it says so much.  A book that should be read  and discussed by everyone.	2000-05-03
2499147:US	52793250	R14NSB8A7EF4PK	0375704531	809033531	The Girl at the Lion d'Or	Books	4	12	15	N	N	A story of love and loss	Sebastian Faulks writes a moving story that takes place in the 1930s about a young woman with a secret so terrible that she has had to change her identity.  She has come from Paris to a small seaside village of Janvilliers, to work at the Hotel du Lion d'Or.  Upon arriving she meets  and falls in love with a married man, Charles Hartmann, and the story  follows their affair to its eventual break-up at the end of the book.  The  story is well written, beautiful and romantic and the characters and  settings are very detailed.  My only criticism of this book is that Faulks  leaves many loose ends...characters and plot lines that are part of the  story, disappear, never be seen or heard from again, leaving several story  lines hanging.  For those looking for passion and romance, love and loss,  this is the book for you.	2000-05-03
2499539:US	52793250	RFR2DK5MQHZGY	0345426029	309953190	The Broken Hearts Club (Conrad Voort Novels)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Great beginning...weak ending	Ethan Black's first novel revolves around a good premise, a weekly dinner meeting of men who have been wronged by women, held by their psychiatrist.  After these meetings, some of the women discussed, end up dead.  The first half of this story is fast-paced and full of suspense.  I couldn't put it  down.  Unfortunately, the second half of the book gets bogged down and once  all the secrets are out, way too early for a satisfying thriller, it slows  to a snails pace.  But, the overall story is good and the book has one  great thing going for it...a New York City detective named Voort, who you'd  like to get to know a lot better.  Not a bad first effort.  I'm hoping to  see Voort, again, in another Ethan Black thriller.	2000-05-03
2500540:US	52793250	R1UR9394I8ZOHU	0553576445	938782521	Big Red Tequila	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Rick Riordan's new P.I. is a keeper	Tres Navarre, back in San Antonio after ten years in San Fransisco solves his first mystery which begins with the disappearance of his former girlfriend and ends with the solution to the ten year old murder of his  father.  In the process we get a great tour of San Antonio, lots of action  and a pretty good story that keeps you guessing to the end.  As a master of  tai chi, fluent in spanish and with a PHD in English lit, Tres is a great  new character.  Riordan's writing, especially the dialogue, is crisp and  clean.  The characters are well developed and hopefully some, like his  mother and friend Ralph, will return in future books.  All in all a  fast-paced page turner and a lot of fun to read.	2000-05-02
2501404:US	52793250	R1HDJ817LWGC9P	0679445315	89898104	Quite a Year for Plums: A novel	Books	5	26	28	N	N	What a charming little book	Bailey White writes a very small, understated story that takes place in a little south Georgia town.  The joy of reading this book is spending time with a very unusual cast of characters...a peanut disease specialist, wildlife artist, collector of electric fans, to name just a few.  While  reading, you get to watch, unobserved, the comings and goings of these  quirky people, as they go about the business of their lives.  This is a  beautifully written book.  It's funny and witty, especially the dialogue.   How wonderful to spend time with these people.  Ms White doesn't  disappoint.	2000-05-02
2504944:US	52793250	R1DUNRUHLGZS1E	0312192487	41453332	A Cold Day in Paradise: An Alex McKnight Novel (Alex McKnight Mysteries)	Books	5	34	39	N	N	Great new author...great P. I.	Steve Hamilton comes at you from several different directions in his first novel, A Cold Day in Paradise.  That's Paradise, Michigan on the shores of Lake Superior in the upper peninsula.  The setting and local color are  terrific.  Alex McKnight, ex-minor league baseball player, ex-Detroit cop  with a bullet still lodged in his chest and now a private investigator,  works his way through two murders, a missing person case and a monster  killer from his past that leave you guessing until the very end of the  book.  Good characters.  Tight plot.  A real page-turner.  This is a book  you won't be able to put down.  Steve Hamilton's got a real winning  combination here.	2000-04-30
2505432:US	52793250	R12QKCUNU1UWOK	067088300X	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A delightful surprise	Melissa Bank writes a wise and humorous book about what we all experience...insecurities.  The narrator, Jane Rosenal, travels through each chapter of this book, trying to find success at love and work by changing and adapting herself, so that the man in her life, or the editor  at her job, will find her desirable, smart or attractive.  In the end, she  realizes that what made others interested in the first place, was her,  Jane, just being herself and the changes she made, made her less  attractive, not more.  Each chapter is a short story that blended together   make a book.  The last chapter is absolutely the best and everyone will see  a bit of themselves in it.  A very nice, thoughtful book, well written and  easy to read.	2000-04-30
2505625:US	52793250	R35AA9A7KWEVHT	0684855135	588044605	The Last Dance: A Novel of the 87th Precinct	Books	4	9	11	N	N	The Last Dance...let's hope not	Ed McBain is back at the 87th precinct with the whole gang...Carella, Kling, Brown, Meyer and my personal favorite, Fat Ollie Weeks.  McBain uses his tried and true formula, moving the plot forward at a good pace from  several directions, until he ties it all up neatly at the end.  The writing  is wonderful.  The dialogue crisp and spare.  And the story tight and  compact.  There's nothing extra in this novel.  A truly enjoyable read.   Let's hope McBain gives us many more from the 87th.	2000-04-30
2508103:US	52793250	R22G889SCJ3J0A	0316154067	559013514	Void Moon	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Not Connelly's best	If you're a Michael Connelly fan, Void Moon will be a real disappointment.  Although the plot moves along at a fast pace, the characters are one dimensional and the story reads like a movie of the week.  It's all very  predictable with no real surprises.	2000-04-28
2509967:US	52793250	R3I2UZXAWEX4BG	0312203039	442694342	High Five (Stephanie Plum, No. 5) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Janet Evanovich has done it again	Stephanie Plum and the whole gang are back and better than ever.  What fun it is to spend time with these characters.  No matter how slowly you try to read this book, it's over way too soon and then you have to wait another year for the next one.  Evanovich gives you a good mystery,  interesting,  wacky characters and scenes that have you laughing out loud.  Do yourself a  favor, start with One for the Money and read them all.	2000-04-27
2510087:US	52793250	RMNRIWLVVM4CN	0312252951	472175536	Winter of the Wolf Moon: An Alex McKnight Mystery (Alex McKnight Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Steve Hamilton gives us another great mystery	Winter of the Wolf Moon picks up where A Cold Day in Paradise left off.  It's winter in Michigan's Upper Peninsula and Alex McKnight is caught up in another missing person case involving the DEA and Russian drug dealers.  Vinnie, Jackie, Chief Maven and Leon Prudell are back and better than ever.   The plot takes you on a roller-coaster ride from Michigan to Canada, with  Alex snowmobiling, playing hockey and spending way too much time in the  hospital.  And Hamilton gives you winter in the upper peninsula...a  character in and of itself.  You won't be able to put this one down.  The  only bad thing about reading Winter of the Wolf Moon, is that once you've  finished, you'll have a long wait for the next Steve Hamilton mystery.	2000-04-27
2510417:US	52793250	R1T9PK1PIBOE79	0399145362	418239112	The Attorney (Paul Madriani, Book 5)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Paul Madriani is back	Another good mystery/courtroom drama from Steve Martini.  Paul Madriani has moved to San Diego, has a new girlfriend and a tough case that involves child custody, drugs and murder.  The plot has many twists and turns and travels from San Diego to Mexico for a suspenseful climax.  Unforunately,  the ending is a bit weak and mystery readers will have figured out who the  killer is half-way through the book.  But even with all that said, The  Attorney is a good read and fans of Madriani won't be disappointed.	2000-04-27
2513590:US	52793250	R20E4GBCJ93JYJ	0385333692	648698209	After Long Silence: A Memoir	Books	4	17	21	N	N	Fascinating story of survival	Helen Fremont writes of her struggles uncovering the truth about her family and their past.  Raised as a Roman Catholic, she finds out in her thirties that she is actually Jewish.  Armed with this knowledge, she, with some help from her sister, begin to look for answers to her family's past.  The story that unfolds is remarkable.  She finds out how her parents and  aunt survived during World War II and how they eventually came to America.   But, unfortunately there are many loose ends and holes in the  story...information no one would tell her and that she could not find out  on her own.  Because of this, the book, though riveting, leaves the reader  hanging, wanting more facts.  One can only hope that Fremont will  eventually find out more and be able to write a sequel, to complete her  story.  This is not just a story of survival, but of the will to live and  go on.  All in all a good book, proving the adage:  Truth is stranger than  fiction.	2000-04-25
2514332:US	52793250	R3R85DAIMLYGVY	0553801562	186177849	The Last King of Texas	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Tres Navarre is back...and better than ever	Rick Riordan does it again.  Another fast-pace, edge of the seat mystery starring Tres Navarre...hunk of a P.I. who makes Spenser looks tame.  This time he not only solves the case but finally gets to use that English PHD, teaching at UT San Antonio.  Tres starts out trying to figure out who keeps  killing English lit professors at UTSA and ends up uncovering gang and mob  connections to drugs and amusement park rides.  In the end he almost gets  himself killed and finds out that the good guys you depend on aren't always  who and what you think they are.  On a happy note, he may have a new woman  in his life.  But we'll have to wait until the next book to find out for  sure.  This book is impossible to put down, a real page-turner with lots of  excitement and surprises.  A must read for mystery fans.	2000-04-25
2514598:US	52793250	R2R5NC9OBZ4F51	0553801414	138360553	Special Circumstances (Mike Daley, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fun read	Sheldon Siegel makes a nice debut with Special Circumstances.  Good main characters.  Good plot with lots of fun twists and turns.  Great ending.  And, the writing is witty and moves the story along at a fast pace.  A real page turner to the end.  I hope he continues the series and we get to see a  lot more of Mike Daley and his ex-wife.	2000-04-25
2514998:US	52793250	R3ALQCEOVXJBJ9	0671522663	866159976	Better Times Than These	Books	5	16	18	N	N	The true war experience	Winston Groom captures the essence of the Viet Nam war in this remarkable book.  As you travel with these soldiers to Viet Nam and into battle, you feel all the emotions that made this war so controversial.  Groom's writing  is so vivid that it brings the war right to your doorstep where it can't be  ignored or misunderstood.  A powerful must-read.  Once you start Better  Times than These, you won't be able to put it down.  And after you've read  it, you won't be able to get it out of your mind.	2000-04-25
2515996:US	52793250	R22BE9A2XSKM2I	0312187343	835548708	The Lady Who Liked Clean Restrooms: The Chronicle Of One Of The Strangest Stories Ever To Be Rumoured About Around New York	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Very thought-provoking	My book group read this and though it was certainly the shortest book we have read, it led to the longest discussion we've ever had.  The protagonist is a women whose husband leaves her for a younger woman.  Because of this and some bad decisions on her part she loses her house,  country club membership, friends, kids...status in her community and ends  up living in a small room in New York, working at a store for minimum wage.  She is miserable.  Through a very unusual series of events, she regains  her wealth only to realize that it's not the money that made her happy, it  was her former life and she can not have that back.  The ending leaves you  thinking  for a long, long time.  This book is written  as the woman thinks  and Donleavy's writing style is hard to get used to at first.  It is almost  as if you are inside her head.  This is a book to pass along to friends so  that you can talk about it for hours.	2000-04-24
2517475:US	52793250	R1LDGNNLB1TGE3	0312181108	477658660	I Capture the Castle	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Wonderful Book	This a book you want to read more than once and loan to friends so that they can have the experience.  The characters, the settings are all beautifully drawn and developed.  But more than that, the feelings of Cassandra at seventeen, falling in love for the first time are so vivid.   It is wonderful to remember how it felt to be young and in love.  A book  for everyone.  The only problem is that it ends.  I could go on reading  about these characters and &quot;living&quot; with them in their castle  forever.	2000-04-23
2525534:US	52793250	R1QU6L6XVRBOAG	0670894184	334925003	Back Roads (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Story of Survival	Tawni O'Dell has written a painful story about the pressures of trying to survive events one has no control over.  Poor Harley is trying to do right by his sisters as he heads for a nervous breakdown brought on by both past and present events.  As these things (murder, incest, child abuse) are  brought forward to his conscious mind by a court appointed psychiatrist, he  finally breaks down completely and has to be institutionalized.  Now that  all the secrets are out, maybe the family will be able to heal and move  forward.  You can only hope that their mother will be released from prison  and the girls will get the help they need.  This is truly a novel of  despair with no happy endings.	2000-04-19
2526138:US	52793250	R1DU952F15DM0C	0671507036	302793228	Montana 1948: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Wonderful Book	This is a powerful story of racism and sexual abuse told from the viewpoint of a 12 year old boy.  The characters and their relationships to  each other are beautifully drawn and developed.  I look forward to reading  other books by this author.	2000-04-18
2526776:US	52793250	R3PT24FOP5MSQM	0312199422	918937105	The Cold Truth (Julian Palmer Thrillers)	Books	1	6	8	N	N	A Real Disappointment	This book got such promising reviews that I really expected to like it.   Unfortunately, it has nothing going for it.  No suspense.  No real mystery.   The characters are poorly drawn and developed.  And the relationship  between the two main characters was unbelievable and contrived.  Stone  needed a better editor.  In all a total disappointment.	2000-04-18
