10118:US	52801489	R2RAZIWMY4ZUXM	0375506713	856927733	The March: A Novel	Books	4	104	131	N	N	A Sweeping Portrait of the Civil War	Throughout his literary career, E. L. Doctorow has perfected the art of the literary historical novel, a genre that invents as much as it recreates.  In The March, he leaves his beloved setting of New York (Ragtime, The Waterworks, World's Fair, City of God) for the South during the end of the Civil War.  General Sherman has begun his often ruthless march through the South, burning towns and cities. An ever-growing group of freed  slaves who have nowhere to go follow the army with the hope they will find, somehow, a better life.  In the midst of this, Doctorow creates his characters, both real and imagined:  Pearl, a freed and fiercely independent slave who looks more white than black; Arly, a former soldier who takes the uniform or identity of whomever is most advantageous to him at the moment; Wrede Sartorius, a Union field surgeon whose interest in the war is mostly scientific; Emily Thompson, a Southern belle who switches sides after her father's death to attend to the sick and wounded; General Sherman himself, whom Doctorow portrays as an aloof leader who turns away from the atrocities committed by his men because he knows he cannot stop them and have them remain loyal to the Union; and many others, some of whom act as protagonists for a single passage.  Even Coalhouse Walker, also a character in Ragtime, appears in a few scenes that illuminate his background.<br /><br />The novel's strength is also its greatest weakness.  Doctorow's technique of using numerous points-of-view gives a sweeping picture of all sides of the war, from foot soldier to general to war correspondent to grieving mother, but it also dilutes the emotional impact of the events he describes.  Some characters, such as Emily Thompson, occupy a large segment of the novel, only to be dispensed with halfway through.  The only character who remains from start to finish is Pearl, whose vibrancy drives the beginning of the novel; however, even in Pearl's case, she ends up as more symbolic than flesh-and-blood, not because of any flaw in Doctorow's treatment but because he does not get deep enough into who she is.  The author's main concern seems to be not the people, but the Union army itself, which he describes as \\"a nonhuman form of life . . . (that) consumes everything in its path.\\"  In this, Doctorow succeeds admirably since, by the end of Sherman's march, the distinction between sides falls away so that those consumed by it (the Confederate soldiers) become a part of the camp, with gray and blue uniforms eating together, thus symbolizing the reestablishment of a single country.  Notably, the freed slaves remain as a separate \\"army\\" encamped alongside the white one.<br /><br />Surprisingly, Doctorow often relies on passive language, which contributes to the impersonal feel of the narrative,  although certain memorable images linger:  Emily trapped in a single room with her dying father while the Union soldiers take over her house; Arly propping up his dead comrade, as though he were alive, for a photograph;  the final act of a man living with a metal spike through his head; the Union generals  and officers assembling for a photograph to document their meeting.  When Doctorow focuses on the individual details of a scene, his writing illustrates the humanity of inhumanity, and the effect is powerful.<br /><br />As a literary overview of the last days of the Civil War, The March is an exceptional novel that expertly melds history with fiction.  Its flaws, while significant, don't lessen the importance of this ambitious work.  Although not Doctorow's best novel, The March should be read by those with a strong interest in contemporary literature.od, not because of any flaw in Doctorow's treatment but because he does not get deep enough into who she is.   The author's main concern seems to be not the people, but the Union army itself, which he describes as \\"a nonhuman form of life . . . (that) consumes everything in its path.\\"  In this, Doctorow succeeds admirably since, by the end of Sherman's march, the distinction between sides falls away so that those consumed by it (the Confederate soldiers) become a part of the camp, with gray and blue uniforms eating together, thus symbolizing the reestablishment of a single country.  Notably, the freed slaves remain as a separate \\"army\\" encamped alongside the white one.    Surprisingly, Doctorow often relies on passive language, which contributes to the impersonal feel of the narrative,  although certain memorable images linger:  Emily trapped in a single room with her dying father while the Union soldiers take over her house; Arly propping up his dead comrade, as though he were alive, for a photograph;  the final act of a man living with a metal spike through his head; the Union generals  and officers assembling for a photograph to document their meeting.  When Doctorow focuses on the individual details of a scene, his writing illustrates the humanity of inhumanity, and the effect is powerful.    As a literary overview of the last days of the Civil War, The March is an exceptional novel that expertly melds history with fiction.  Its flaws, while significant, don't lessen the importance of this ambitious work.  Although not Doctorow's best novel, The March should be read by those with a strong interest in contemporary literature.	2005-10-08
33541:US	52801489	RVUHVCRQE86MR	0393060349	511808231	The History of Love: A Novel	Books	5	314	330	N	N	The Miraculous Journey of Love and Chance	Nicole Krauss's astonishing novel about a manuscript that survives the Holocaust, a flood, broken friendships, a plagiarist, misunderstanding, and obscurity has all the heart and intelligence of the best fiction being published today.  Elderly Leo Gursky is afraid of dying unnoticed, and he plans his days so that people will see him and remember him.  Among other schemes, he makes a scene in Starbucks and poses nude for a drawing class.  Leo wasn't always this lonely.  Decades before, in a small town that was then part of Poland, he fell in love with a girl named Alma.  He wrote a book about her before the two fled at different times and circumstances to safety during World War II.  Despite the disappointments in his life, Leo continues to write, convinced that he will die when this next book is finished.  Meanwhile, a teenager also called Alma, named after a character in a book titled The History of Love by a Chilean named Litvinoff, finds herself in the heart of a mystery:  her mother is hired by a mysterious man named Jacob Marcus to translate The History of Love from Spanish.  Since Alma's father passed away years before, her mother has been overcome with sadness, and Alma sets out to find Jacob Marcus as a possible suitor.  Oblivious to Alma's quest, her brother Bird has decided he is one of thirty-six holy men, a \\"lamed vovnik\\", and might even be the Messiah.  And then there's Litvinoff himself, in the past, with his personal story and connection to the manuscript and to Alma and to his own beloved Rosa.  The stunning coup of this novel is how Krauss brings these diverse elements into a single, concluding moment.<br /><br />Krauss has complete command of a story that could get away from a lesser novelist.  Witty, sometimes sadly funny, with unforgettable off-beat characters, the novel draws in the reader from the first page, although its true strength isn't evident until the last hundred pages.  The comparison of The History of Love to Jonathan Safran Foer's Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close is inevitable, since the two authors are married and both books were published in 2005.  While the two works echo each other in parts, use similar postmodern techniques, and concern themselves with related themes, Krauss and Foer are too good to be lumped together.  Still, these seem like companion books.  The History of Love is every bit as inventive and as emotionally riveting as Foer's novel - and vice versa - but it (as does Foer's novel) seems to wink at readers who have read both.  Readers familiar with Foer's book will smile as Leo reveals that he is a retired locksmith who can open any door he wants.  And the set-up of a young person, missing his/her dead father and searching New York for clues to solve a mystery will seem familiar.  Beyond that, however, these books stand alone as remarkable works about people, both immigrants and natives, who are adrift in contemporary America.<br /><br />This exceptional novel deserves a wide readership.  Highly recommended.Loud and Incredibly Close is inevitable, since the two authors are married and both books were published in 2005.  While the two works echo each other in parts, use similar postmodern techniques, and concern themselves with related themes, Krauss and Foer are too good to be lumped together.  Still, these seem like companion books.  The History of Love is every bit as inventive and as emotionally riveting as Foer's novel - and vice versa - but it (as does Foer's novel) seems to wink at readers who have read both.  Readers familiar with Foer's book will smile as Leo reveals that he is a retired locksmith who can open any door he wants.  And the set-up of a young person, missing his/her dead father and searching New York for clues to solve a mystery will seem familiar.  Beyond that, however, these books stand alone as remarkable works about people, both immigrants and natives, who are adrift in contemporary America.    This exceptional novel deserves a wide readership.  Highly recommended.	2005-09-25
33574:US	52801489	R2YOSZTVD7HAW9	0747549583	189824868	Anil's Ghost	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The periphery of a civil war	Michael Ondaatje has brilliantly evoked the horrors of the civil war in his native Sri Lanka by focusing on the people not directly involved in the war but nonetheless affected by it on a deep, personal level. Anil Tissera returns to her native Sri Lanka as a Western forensic anthropologist charged with investigating accusations of war crimes. Although she works for an international human rights group, she is on her own, except for the Sri Lanka government appointed anthropologist Sarath whose loyalties and motives are unknown and therefore suspect. When Anil and Sarath come into possession of several skeletons, one of which they nickname Sailor, they realize they have evidence of government atrocities. Now, through their clandestine scientific work, they must prove it. As they delve deeper into their investigation, they encounter others who bring their own stories to the novel.<br /><br />Although Ondaatje primarily follows the lives, both past and present, of Sarath and Anil, the most powerful - and in the end the most memorable - character is Gamini, Sarath's younger brother and a doctor at the Colombo hospital. His presence in the book provides the balance necessary to see beyond the specific incident involving Sailor and into the greater arena of a country torn apart by violence. Ananda, too, provides an intriguing yet murky layer as the eye-painter, a man trained in the sacred art of painting eyes on statues of the gods.<br /><br />Written in clear, straightforward prose, the narrative itself is non-linear, moving through time as it explores the complexity of the characters. Despite the structure, readers should find the novel easy to follow. This is not a dense, lyrical novel; the poetry here resides in brief, intimate moments that the author allows the reader to glimpse.<br /><br />The power of this work derives from the varied lives that touch upon Anil's investigation. Although the novel could have been developed more completely, it leaves a lasting impression that only the best writing can achieve. I wavered between giving it four or five stars, but, because I can't stop thinking about the book, I decided it deserved my top rating.<br /><br />If you are looking for something upbeat, obviously you should avoid this book. Readers of literary, political, and international fiction will find a true treasure in these pages.impression that only the best writing can achieve. I wavered between giving it four or five stars, but, because I can't stop thinking about the book, I decided it deserved my top rating. <br /> <br />If you are looking for something upbeat, obviously you should avoid this book. Readers of literary, political, and international fiction will find a true treasure in these pages.	2005-09-25
33668:US	52801489	R1RAECCD1CCDAD	1400043964	743788911	Dancing in the Dark	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Behind the Burnt Cork	Caryl Phillips, in his biographical novel Dancing in the Dark, has chosen to explore the rise of black entertainers during the early part of the twentieth century through the lens of Bert Williams, an elegant West Indies-born vaudevillian, and his partner George Walker.  As the first black Americans to star on Broadway, the duo were pioneers in breaking down, and also fortifying, the barriers between whites and blacks.<br /><br />Told in a collage of narrative from the points-of-view of Williams, Walker, their wives, and their loved ones, and through play segments and newspaper accounts, the novel moves back and forth through time, from glimpses of Williams's childhood and his early days with Walker to both untimely deaths.  Phillips's portrayal of Williams, however, is the driving force behind his slim novel.  This fictional Williams, both historically accurate and imagined,  is torn between entertaining the masses and tossing aside racial stereotypes.  The dilemma cripples him, as he knows in his heart that he will never be accepted without his burnt cork make-up and his satiric routines.  Publicly, he is elegant and reserved, but privately he is a troubled man, unable to consummate his marriage and unable to communicate his true feelings.  The contrast to his outspoken, carousing partner Walker is a poignant one.  We know that with the black-face and cakewalk and mumbling English on stage comes a man who needs to break out of his self-constructed cage. Williams is an entertainer; Walker is a would-be activist.  Their clash is inevitable.<br /><br />Although Phillips's episodic method of storytelling sometimes derails the momentum of his story, it is nonetheless a fascinating read.  When the author relies heavily on accounts of the day and snippets of many voices, the narrative can seem rushed and incomplete, as the book begins to lack focus.  Readers may find themselves wishing that the author had taken more time to develop some of the issues and situations he introduces.<br /><br />Dancing in the Dark is best when honing in on the conflicted Williams, and, by association, the times around him.  Readers of literary fiction will appreciate Phillips's masterful writing and the themes he brings to light.  Like Williams, the novel has an elegance and an ambition that is difficult to resist.Dancing in the Dark is best when honing in on the conflicted Williams, and, by association, the times around him.   Readers of literary fiction will appreciate Phillips's masterful writing and the themes he brings to light.  Like Williams, the novel has an elegance and an ambition that is difficult to resist.	2005-09-25
54343:US	52801489	R1Z6XRENUP2E9F	0099450259	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	5	36	39	N	Y	An Amazing Fictional Leap	Mark Haddon has written a moving novel about love and bravery through the eyes of a British autistic boy. Christopher discovers his neighbor's poodle dead, impaled by a pitchfork, and, because he adores puzzles, he sets out to solve the mystery of who killed Wellington . But Christopher is autistic, a boy who doesn't like to be touched and cannot decipher emotions beyond the tools his teacher has taught him, and so the task requires the huge effort of testing rules and facing his own fears. A literalist by neurology, he deconstructs life into a set of mathematical equations and physical laws. This unique perspective makes him a good detective on one level, where clues and logic rule, but it also fails him on another, higher one because he cannot understand the magnitude of what he uncovers.<br /><br />That Haddon was able to write a book from Christopher's point of view with all his quirks and still make him lovable is extraordinary. By necessity, the writing is simple and unadorned, but the language of details elevates it from the mundane. The insertion of mathematical puzzles and drawings add to the reader's understanding of how Christopher's mind works. Haddon's real skill is an understatement that allows the reader to comprehend what is going on even if Christopher cannot. Although Christopher cannot grasp subtlety and nuances, the reader can, and that's where the true force of this exceptional novel lies.<br /><br />This short, easy to read book can be completed in a couple of sittings, although its impact will last much longer. Highly recommended for a general readership.	2005-09-14
54658:US	52801489	R35BNI96GF8QDU	0965404560	977000479	Atonement	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Reminiscent of Henry James, but with metafiction	Ian McEwan's Atonement has the feel of classical literature: an elegant and slightly formal style, generous details, and a straightforward plot. Briony Tallis, a spoiled British 13 year old, spies her older sister Cecilia and the caretaker's son Robbie as they wrestle with an antique vase next to a fountain. Although Briony imagines herself as mature, she does not yet have an adult understanding of the world. When the events that follow do not fit her scope of comprehension, she forces them into place with a lie that forever changes the people she involves. The novel follows the principals through the war and ends as Briony faces her own mortality in 1999.<br /><br />Especially during the first part (there are four) which takes place just before World War II, I could not help thinking of Henry James and his intricate exploration of character and relationships. I had to keep reminding myself that I was reading a contemporary novel. The only aspect that jarred me into the 21st century was McEwan's use of metafiction (fiction about writing fiction.) Briony is an aspiring writer when the story begins, but we are told almost from the start that she will become an accomplished novelist. Throughout, Briony is keenly aware of the demands of her craft and how they distort the truth. As the novel progresses, the reader is made more and more aware of this self-conscious side until the end, when the final section deals with this issue alone.<br /><br />Personally, I'm tired of metafiction and find it contrived; however, McEwan's polished writing atones for this literary sin. The details of life both before and during the war are extraordinary, as are the intricate characterizations. Although parts of this novel are overdone, it is McEwan's expertness that triumphs.<br /><br />Atonement is a fine book that deserves widespread attention despite its dryness. I recommend this book for serious readers and those who yearn for more classicism in contemporary literature. You'll want to skip this novel, however, if you don't have the patience for detail or are looking for a suspenseful or complicated plot.ant to skip this novel, however, if you don't have the patience for detail or are looking for a suspenseful or complicated plot.	2005-09-14
55245:US	52801489	R39MHALHB0WLXU	1841150355	785940945	The Hours	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Inspired by Mrs. Dalloway, but all Cunningham	I can't believe I put off reading Michael Cunningham's THE HOURS for this long. This spectacularly written novel resonates with emotion and insight as it follows the relatively ordinary details of the lives of three women separated by decades. Each woman lives a single day here, each is haunted by the novel MRS. DALLOWAY. Virginia Woolf is preparing to write the novel in the midst of unsettling thoughts and surroundings. 50's housewife Laura Brown finds refuge in the book as she prepares for her husband's birthday and finds herself tempted by thoughts of death. Clarissa Vaughan has been nicknamed Mrs. Dalloway by her closest friend, the dying poet Richard, for whom she is about to throw a party. The three stories converge thematically; two are brought together by a shared character.<br /><br />You don't need to read Woolf's MRS. DALLOWAY to appreciate this book because Cunningham has constructed a moving tale that stands on its own. Although a knowledge of Woolf's novel reveals the layers the author has carefully constructed, there is much here to enjoy without that frame of reference. The language is stunning, and the sentiments even more so. Surprisingly, Virginia Woolf is the strongest character despite her iconic place in literature, with Clarissa almost as well drawn. Laura is less memorable. Some of the minor characters appear with clarity while others seem tacked on, there only to support the ties to Woolf's novel. The homosexual characters (most notably Clarissa and Richard, with fleeting impulses from Laura and Virginia) are treated with affection and respect.<br /><br />THE HOURS is a short, easily readable book, although you shouldn't - and most won't want to - breeze through it. I recommend this book for a general readership.	2005-09-14
55674:US	52801489	RPBYSY64EKDL6	0330305026	312810069	Song of Solomon: A Novel (Picador Books)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	One of Toni Morrison's Best Novels!	With passion and a voice that sings with beautiful detail and magic, Toni Morrison's third novel, published in 1977, is a powerful tale that follows the lives of a black family and their friends living in a Michigan city. In 1931, Macon Dead III, later nicknamed Milkman, is prematurely brought into the world, the first black child born in Mercy Hospital, just after his mother witnesses the brief flight of a man determined to fly from the cupola of the hospital. Although the novel revolves around Milkman, the stories spun out from him embrace a wide variety of characters and experiences. Morrison explores the lasting stamp of slavery through the name of Macon Dead; the intimate culture of women through Pilate, Reba, and Hagar; the hunger for property and respectability through Milkman's father; the idea of one's \\"people\\" through those in the South who have not forgotten connections; the violence of civil rights through Guitar; and many more issues facing blacks of the times and today. Despite the resonance of history, this novel is ultimately about its people and their eagerly lived lives. Morrison plunges her readers into their hearts with a humanity and skill too few novelists possess. The result is a remarkably emotional and intelligent story that will stay with you for a long time.<br /><br />Readers should not be intimidated by Morrison's Nobel Prize Winner status, as this novel, like most of her others, is written in startling but accessible language. You don't need an advanced degree (or even a specific race or gender) to slip into her magical prose. Her characters are real and fully realized, and feel like friends, even when you might want to shake them to their senses. Although some readers will be puzzled by the end, wanting perhaps the next sentence that explains it all, Morrison has included by her omission the real meaning of her book. Visit with it for a few moments before closing the cover.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book for a wide range of readers, from high school students to adults. Even though it was written in the 1970's, its themes and characters still have relevance today. Morrison is one of the world's literary gifts, and should not be missed. THE SONG OF SOLOMON is one of her best novels.f readers, from high school students to adults. Even though it was written in the 1970's, its themes and characters still have relevance today. Morrison is one of the world's literary gifts, and should not be missed. THE SONG OF SOLOMON is one of her best novels.	2005-09-14
58254:US	52801489	R1CECJ839U1M13	1932841105	975535759	Freshwater Road	Books	5	24	26	N	N	"Miss'sippi ain't nothing to play with."	Denise Nicholas sets her impressive debut novel in Mississippi during the summer of 1964, the Freedom Summer when civil rights workers Chaney, Goodman, and Schwerner disappeared and were later found murdered.  Although segregation and second-class citizenship for blacks had officially ended in the United States,  little had changed in the Deep South.  Celeste Tyree, a nineteen year old University of Michigan student, decides to volunteer for the One Man, One Vote movement despite the dangers.  The office stations her in Pineyville, Mississippi, a town a few miles from the Louisiana border.  There, she lives with Mrs. Owens, an older woman who helps Celeste learn the ways of Pineyville.  With the help of the local black minister Reverend Singleton, Celeste begins the Freedom School to teach black history to the children and a voter registration class for the adults.  Celeste finds herself immediately in danger, as whites and even some blacks are angered by her attempts to gain equal rights for the black citizens.  Celeste takes to sleeping on the floor to avoid bullets fired through windows and to stepping off the sidewalk to let whites pass.  Through all the danger and demeaning acts, Celeste perseveres.  In the meantime, in Detroit, Celeste's father Shuck worries about his beloved daughter, for he knows the risks she faces.  In the end, he can do nothing to protect his headstrong daughter.  After all, she takes after her daddy, a \\"race man,\\" who takes pride in who he is and is willing to fight for it.<br /><br />Nicholas, who starred in both \\"Room 222\\" and \\"In the Heat of the Night,\\" proves that her talents run deeper than acting, as her solid, sometimes beautiful, writing evokes her subject matter with the same elegance and intelligence she brings to her roles.  Most of her characters are complex and believable, and her plot unfolds with a natural storyteller's logic. Although the author occasionally founders by neglecting certain subplots and characters who seem destined to play major roles, the overall result far exceeds most first-time novels.<br /><br />Nicholas seamlessly weaves the history of the civil rights movement into the more intimate story of one young, idealistic woman alone in a strange, hostile place.  This cross between commercial fiction and history lesson makes this novel an accessible and compelling entry into the black experience during the 1960's.eem destined to play major roles, the overall result far exceeds most first-time novels.    <br /> <br />Nicholas seamlessly weaves the history of the civil rights movement into the more intimate story of one young, idealistic woman alone in a strange, hostile place.  This cross between commercial fiction and history lesson makes this novel an accessible and compelling entry into the black experience during the 1960's.	2005-09-12
61412:US	52801489	R1UQZUWMHQRNO	1400043395	813354201	Never Let Me Go	Books	5	665	698	N	Y	The Truth Between the Lines	Set in the 1990's, Kazuo Ishiguro's quietly disturbing novel aims to make us question the ethics of science even though the author never directly raises the topic.  The narrator of Never Let Me Go is Kathy H., a woman who introduces herself as a \\"carer\\" mere months away from becoming a \\"donor,\\" as though we should know what these terms mean.  This nearness to ending one stage of her life to entering another causes her to reminisce about Hailsham, the school in the English countryside where she grew up with her two closest friends, Tommy D. and Ruth.  The three form an unlikely trio:  Ruth is headstrong and imaginative; Tommy has an uncontrollable temper; and Kathy is steady and observant in the subtleties of human behavior.  It is this last quality belonging to Kathy H. that sets the tone of the novel.  Everything is precisely told in an even, matter-of-fact voice that never questions the strange terminology and conversations that alert the reader to something more grave lurking under what seems, on the surface, to be an ordinary story about three childhood friends.  As the three grow up, they begin to face moments more important than the minor disagreements of childhood.<br /><br />Ishiguro's richly textured description of the relationship among the three supplies all the details without confronting the larger issues.  As Kathy tells us, the guardians at Hailsham both tell and not tell the students the truth about Hailsham and their lives--exactly what Ishiguro does to the reader.  The truth is doled out in increments, over the course of the entire novel, requiring the reader to understand what is implied as much as what is told.  The frightening side to all this is that the characters never question the course of their lives.  No one runs, or questions why they are the ones to make the ultimate sacrifice.  One of the most poignant moments comes near the end when Kathy says, \\"Why should we not have souls?\\"  By this point, it has been apparent to the reader that Kathy, Tommy, and Ruth are human in every sense of the word, with talents and intelligence and foibles and complex emotions, and yet are regarded as both freaks and disposables by the \\"normals.\\"  For the reader, these characters are anything but expendable.<br /><br />Ishiguro's literary style of examining small moments might disappoint readers who expect a strong plot.  Although the premise may belong to science fiction, this novel is more concerned with characterization and theme.  If you like writers in the tradition of Ian McEwan, Marilynne Robinson, Chang-Rae Lee, and Margaret Atwood (whose The Handmaid's Tale creates a different dystopia), you'll be immediately swept into this alternate world where the past is also the future.athy, Tommy, and Ruth are human in every sense of the word, with talents and intelligence and foibles and complex emotions, and yet are regarded as both freaks and disposables by the \\"normals.\\"  For the reader, these characters are anything but expendable. <br /> <br />Ishiguro's literary style of examining small moments might disappoint readers who expect a strong plot.  Although the premise may belong to science fiction, this novel is more concerned with characterization and theme.  If you like writers in the tradition of Ian McEwan, Marilynne Robinson, Chang-Rae Lee, and Margaret Atwood (whose The Handmaid's Tale creates a different dystopia), you'll be immediately swept into this alternate world where the past is also the future.	2005-09-11
69038:US	52801489	R2B8EJSSPB8HWF	0739449672	264333582	Honeymoon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well-paced plot with some loose ends	This well-paced, entertaining thriller pits two seasoned role-players against each other: John O'Hara, undercover FBI agent, and Nora Sinclair, charming serial killer. Nora, thin and gorgeous, with expensive, discerning tastes, is the type of woman men dream of seducing. She's witty and fun, and wealthy men cannot help falling for her. And fall they do - literally - as Nora has a method of murder that escapes detection. When John O'Hara is assigned to her case, life for both gets complicated as the two jockey for information, never certain what the other knows. Told from the alternating points-of-view, the novel delves into the psychology of both characters, allowing the reader to know more than they do, which makes for great suspense. (The audio version is read by two actors, one male and one female, which increases the sense of characters at cross-purposes.)<br /><br />This book makes a great beach or vacation book - except for the end, which fails to address certain points brought up earlier in the novel. The brand-name dropping gets tedious at times (trust me, you'll be able to recite the kind of water Nora drinks, the model of car she drives, and the list of contemporary thriller writers her mother likes to read.) And the plot twists seem manufactured instead of natural. Despite these flaws, Patterson and co-author Roughan cook up a sometimes steamy, sometimes harrowing tale of murder and intrigue.<br /><br />Readers of thrillers will enjoy this, although it's not one of those books that sticks with you. The fast-paced plot and the two points-of-view keep readers turning the pages, hungry for what happens next.	2005-09-07
69084:US	52801489	R2WUZA1XDCDZ79	0140288139	539275432	My Dream of You	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Novel About Ireland and Passion	Nuala O'Faoloain's My Dream of You is a coming-of-middle-age tale about Irish women across decades looking for \\"something to love.\\" While the novel is overtly about passion, it also explores the meaning of coming home and leaving it, of familial ties, of friendship, and, most poignantly, of growing older. Fiftyish Kathleen de Burca finds herself bereft and alone when her best friend Jimmy dies, and she begins to question the choices she has made. A persistent memory of a former lover and his \\"gift\\" to her of court documents prompt her to quit her job as a travel writer and to research the scandalous affair between a married Englishwoman and her Irish groom, an event that occurred during the Irish Potato Famine. Kathleen arrives on Irish soil after a long, stubborn absence, and there, she begins to open up, to understand matters of love and passion, to grasp the significance of her childhood, to give meaning to what it means to be Irish.<br /><br />O'Faoloain's prose is lyrical, though sometimes overwrought, and its cadences propel this essentially quiet story. The historical side of the book, that of the principals in the Talbot Judgment, lends texture to the present day story, although the story itself is not as compelling as it could be, especially when Kathleen recreates it as fiction. O'Faoloain's unflinching descriptions of the realities of the aging body and its desires give this novel a freshness and an honesty. The psychology of the protagonist is revealed with equal candor.<br /><br />My Dream of You should appeal largely to women, although all readers who like to read about Ireland will enjoy its textures of history and description.	2005-09-07
78731:US	52801489	R7CLSO8VQ5YE9	1566891752	20875667	Garner	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Postman as Gatekeeper to a Tragedy	In the opening pages of Kirstin Allio's debut novel, young Frances Giddens is found by the town's postman drowned in Blood Brook.  It is 1925, and the town of Garner, New Hampshire is struggling financially.  The postman, Willard Heald, is obviously troubled by Frances's death even as he labors over his handwritten history of the town.  His wife watches him with suspicion, for she suspects him of having harbored a crush on the spirited teenager.  The summer boarders staying at the Giddens family's house remain silent, as do those who lift her body out of the stream.  No one dares utter the questions lurking in the reader's mind:  Did Frances kill herself or was she murdered?  And why?<br /><br />The circumstances surrounding Frances's death constitute the bulk of Allio's subtly moving novel.  Told in fragments that often read like prose poems, the narrative is not straightforward and instead skirts the truth like a wary coyote.  As Frances writes in her diary, \\"secrets . . . are the shadows of the plain truth between us.\\"  Although Frances's life and death form the center of the novel, it is Heald who is its gatekeeper.  All outside communication must pass through Heald, who takes it upon himself to decide whether someone should receive or post a specific letter.  He hides truth from the town - and the reader - in a way no one else can.  The residents are ignorant of his power, and they treat him almost as an outsider, someone quiet who sits on the edge of their gatherings, a solitary man.  Heald's stealth ends up being both his strength and his undoing.<br /><br />Allio's prose can make for demanding reading since no word or image is wasted, and she leaves the reader to piece together the story from the poetic details she provides.  The starkness of 1925 New Hampshire, even during its most bountiful season, preys upon the characters.  Some passages are cryptic as Allio splices moments and quotes from different times to punctuate another scene, but whether the author is describing a woodland or a person or even a roundabout truth, she writes with gorgeous precision.  Readers will be well rewarded by sticking with her, to see where the meandering journey through the roads and paths of Garner will take them.<br /><br />Readers of unconventional literary fiction will find much to admire in this unsettling debut novel.  Highly recommended for serious readers.e author is describing a woodland or a person or even a roundabout truth, she writes with gorgeous precision.  Readers will be well rewarded by sticking with her, to see where the meandering journey through the roads and paths of Garner will take them. <br /> <br />Readers of unconventional literary fiction will find much to admire in this unsettling debut novel.  Highly recommended for serious readers.	2005-09-02
79252:US	52801489	R21WZ5SRTHXXLO	1400076544	42725965	O. Henry Prize Stories 2005 (THE O. HENRY PRIZE STORIES)	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Always a good place to find quality short stories	This year's prize anthology is dedicated to Anton Chekhov, the father of the modern short story.  Even though none of these stories can be considered a masterpiece, they are all indebted to Chekhov's legacy of an unflinching look at human psychology.  Although some of these stories are found in The Best American Short Stories 2004 (\\"What You Pawn, I Will Redeem\\" by Sherman Alexie; \\"A Rich Man\\" by Edward P. Jones: \\"Grace\\" by Paula Fox; \\"The Tutor\\" by Nell Freudenberger), most are different, making this anthology a good companion to the other.<br /><br />Many of these stories are about divorce and parental abandonment, often from the child's point of view.  \\"Mudlavia\\"  by Elizabeth Stuckey-French tells of a boy with what the doctors think is rheumatoid arthritis.  He and his mother travel one summer to a spa where they are introduced to a world outside their own.  Meanwhile, the boy's father remains at home and is seen by one of the boy's closest friends (who writes to him) with his beautiful \\"cousin.\\"  \\"The Tutor\\" is also about the loss, both psychological and real, of a parent, although the themes and emotions run in much more complicated directions.  American Julia is in Bombay, living with her father after her mother moved out and hoping to escape to college.  Zubin, an American and British education Indian, tutors her for her SATs, and through their relationship, teaches her other essentials things about life.  The protagonist of \\"The High Divide\\" by Charles D'Ambrosio is a boy living in an orphanage who is befriended by a \\"public school kid\\" and his family.  The boy, who has lost his father to mental illness, witnesses his friend's own loss as they hike to the High Divide.<br /><br />One of the more imaginative stories is Kevin Brockemeier's \\"The Brief History of the Dead,\\" a story about what could only be called limbo: an entire city of dead people that is neither heaven nor hell - it's just a city.  As new dead people arrive, they tell of a virus that is wiping out the earth's human population. These mass deaths begin to change the dynamics of the city in a cryptic, unpredictable way.  \\"Desolation\\" by Gail Jones is one of the less traditional narratives, with its thematic fragments.<br /><br />With only six out of twenty stories from The New Yorker, this anthology highlights some top-rate fiction from the best literary journals such as The Threepenny Review, Southwest Review, and Michigan Quarterly Review.  While stories from Harper's and The Atlantic Monthly are also included, this year's selection veers more away from the commercial publications than in recent years.  Readers looking for a sampling of some of the best stories published today will find an uneven but polished collection.is wiping out the earth's human population. These mass deaths begin to change the dynamics of the city in a cryptic, unpredictable way.  \\"Desolation\\" by Gail Jones is one of the less traditional narratives, with its thematic fragments. <br /> <br />With only six out of twenty stories from The New Yorker, this anthology highlights some top-rate fiction from the best literary journals such as The Threepenny Review, Southwest Review, and Michigan Quarterly Review.  While stories from Harper's and The Atlantic Monthly are also included, this year's selection veers more away from the commercial publications than in recent years.  Readers looking for a sampling of some of the best stories published today will find an uneven but polished collection.	2005-09-01
86879:US	52801489	RL405LRVL9FBV	0330396633	963629300	Plainsong	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	A quiet, graceful tale of a small prairie town	PLAINSONG is one of those novels that sneaks up on a reader, beginning with understated prose and culminating with such authorial affection that the reader does not want to leave the fictional world. Haruf follows the lives of several characters in rural Holt, Colorado - Guthrie, an honest school teacher whose wife has suffered a nervous breakdown; his two sons, Ike and Bobby, who find themselves facing death, independence, and growing up; Victoria Roubideaux, a pregnant teenager thrown out of her mother's house; the McPherons, Harold and Raymond, bachelor brothers who know more about cattle prices and corn cribs than they do about people; and Maggie Jones, the woman who connects them.<br /><br />I did not fall in love with this novel until the hundredth page or so, and then I could not put it down. The narrative flows like a meandering river - steadily but without visible ripples on the surface - and so it takes time to become fully invested in Haruf's characters. Fortunately, the characterizations, fictional details and the quality of the prose are strong enough from the start to keep one reading. The rhythms of life in Holt and the honest, almost innocent, way its citizens face their trials give this novel a graceful elegiac quality.<br /><br />PLAINSONG is a quiet character-driven novel that evokes small town life on the American Plains. I heartily recommend it to readers who like this kind of fiction.	2005-08-28
88093:US	52801489	R30HX4T7AYX1L6	B0007G1CXQ	461432736	Pnin	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Satiric Novel by a Master Stylist	Vladimir Nabokov is so often called a \\"master stylist\\" that it is easy to forget that he is an adept storyteller as well. Even though PNIN, one of his lesser known works, threatens to disappear under the gorgeous stylistic turns, it is ultimately the pathetic title character and his nemesis/narrator who drive this novel. Pnin is a Russian instructor at a college, and, due to his solitary existence and his failure to grasp the subtleties of English, he has become a running joke to most of his colleagues. He is fussy, awkward, and usually clueless. The novel reads as episodes in Pnin's life: losing his lecture notes on a train he should never have been on; his weekend with other Russian immigrants; the crushing love and hope he experiences when his ex-wife visits him; a party he gives for his colleagues. The narrator's the biting and hilarious commentary about Pnin and those he associates with keeps the reader from taking these events too seriously. But should we?<br /><br />In the writing of this work, Nabokov breaks all the rules. His shifts in points-of-view, his sometimes favoring of lengthy exposition over scene, his dropping of plots and subplots just as they get going all work precisely because he is such a skilled novelist and knows the effect of abandoning conventions. In dashing the reader's hopes, his style takes tenacious hold of the reader's imagination; we learn to trust the voice - even if we shouldn't. This last is what is truly brilliant about the novel: we allow ourselves to be swept into a story of non-events and pathos, laughing along the way and becoming in essence yet another of Pnin's mocking colleagues.<br /><br />Students of literature and book discussion groups can discover a wealth of topics here: Is the narrator reliable? How can the narrator be both omniscient and a specific character? How does the touching story of Pnin's first love fit with the mocking tone in the rest of the novel? What is the range of the Russian immigrant experience Nabokov supplies? Is Pnin heroic or merely pathetic?<br /><br />While PNIN is hardly the masterpiece that PALE FIRE or LOLITA is, it has its own rewards. Once I advanced past the first chapter, I didn't want to leave this odd, Old World character. Highly recommended, especially if you've already read one or more of Nabokov's other works.ce Nabokov supplies? Is Pnin heroic or merely pathetic? <br /> <br />While PNIN is hardly the masterpiece that PALE FIRE or LOLITA is, it has its own rewards. Once I advanced past the first chapter, I didn't want to leave this odd, Old World character. Highly recommended, especially if you've already read one or more of Nabokov's other works.	2005-08-28
96614:US	52801489	R3LPKK8Q1AAJIO	015602943X	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Collage of Time and Love	Audrey Niffenegger's inventive, complex novel challenges our notions of both time and love, with the two so entwined that they cannot be easily separated.  Henry DeTamble is a time-traveler, a \\"Chrono-Displaced Person\\" due to a genetic quirk, for whom time is both enemy and friend.  He disappears from the present with little warning and reappears elsewhere in both time and space - naked, queasy, and disoriented. He tends to return to people and places that have significance in his past.  Sometimes he discovers clothes stashed away by other selves (the time-traveling Henry exists simultaneously  with the present one) and by those who expect him despite the unpredictability of his affliction.  During his travels, he meets his wife Clare when she is only six and he is thirty-six.  This leads to one of the delightful quirks of the story:  Clare has known an older Henry for most of her life, but when she runs into him when he is twenty-eight, he has never met her.  And the Henry thirty-six years and older knows that the young girl who meets him in the meadow will one day be his wife, although she is unaware of this eventuality.  The love these two characters have for each other holds them together, even through the worst times.<br /><br />Told through the points-of-view of both Henry and Clare, the novel doles out scenes not in narrative flashbacks but in scenes that connect the characters without the conventional boundaries of age and time. For Clare, the progression of her life is logical and chronological, but for Henry, it is a collage that he can't always order.  Niffenegger does an excellent job of developing her story in this non-linear fashion with an impeccable sense of structure; she never inserts a plot element too early or too late, although occasionally she includes too much.  The middle of the novel begin to feel a little long as the author develops, perhaps a little too conscientiously, the more minor characters and their relationships to Henry and Clare.  Fortunately, the pace picks up again near the end as the reader begins to understand how inevitable the unfolding of lives really is.  The fullness of the characterization makes this novel admirable on its own, but Niffenegger's talent for language and her passion for the story itself creates an extraordinary work of fiction.  The emotional drive of the narrative is so persuasive that readers will have difficulty putting it down.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book for a wide readership, though its often adult nature makes it inappropriate for younger teens.  This is Einstein's Dreams with both substance and story; whereas Lightman's book is more of a thematic riff on time and space, this novel integrates the relativity of time seamlessly into a complex, heartfelt narrative.  Startling at times and always original, this novel is one of the better books I've read this year..  Fortunately, the pace picks up again near the end as the reader begins to understand how inevitable the unfolding of lives really is.  The fullness of the characterization makes this novel admirable on its own, but Niffenegger's talent for language and her passion for the story itself creates an extraordinary work of fiction.  The emotional drive of the narrative is so persuasive that readers will have difficulty putting it down. <br /> <br />I highly recommend this book for a wide readership, though its often adult nature makes it inappropriate for younger teens.  This is Einstein's Dreams with both substance and story; whereas Lightman's book is more of a thematic riff on time and space, this novel integrates the relativity of time seamlessly into a complex, heartfelt narrative.  Startling at times and always original, this novel is one of the better books I've read this year.	2005-08-23
102114:US	52801489	R1C2OHPE1OP4DA	0385501137	881038215	Willful Creatures: Stories	Books	4	26	28	N	N	The Brothers Grimm Meet Contemporary Life:  4+ Stars	Aimee Bender's stories are the contemporary descendents of those of the Brothers Grimm, with their surrealism laid on top of human desire and need.  In both her previous collection, The Girl in the Flammable Skirt, and this newest one, Willful Creatures, her fiction adopts the tone of fairytales through the straightforward storytelling of the bizarre.  Instead of a sausage growing on the end of a nose, Bender gives us potato children and a captive miniature man.  Instead of a wicked stepmother, she conjures a collective group of predatory teenage girls.  The \\"willful creatures\\" of the title take over and change the lives of the people who discover them.  While some of these creatures have irons for heads or are made of glass or have keys for fingers, many appear, at least superficially, as ordinary people living routine lives.<br /><br />One of the most memorable stories is \\"End of the Line,\\" where a big man buys a little man from a pet shop, keeps him in a cage with a television and sofa, and commits unspeakable cruelties.  \\"The Meeting\\" starts out like a Talking Heads song of the late 1970s:  \\"The woman he met.  He met a woman.  This woman was the woman he met.\\"  From this staccato, inane beginning, the story develops the theme of ruined expectations and how they can evolve, without warning, into powerful emotions. \\"Dearth\\" is the story of a childless woman who discovers a pot of persistent, magical potatoes that grow into children.  In \\"The Case of the Salt and Pepper Shakers,\\" the narrator, a crime investigator, is less concerned with how a husband and wife killed each other at the same moment than he is with the mysterious collection of fourteen salt and pepper shakers he finds in their house.<br /><br />Readers won't confuse Bender's work with anyone else's.  Her inventive plots, coupled with no-nonsense language, result in swiftly told tales.  To Bender, contemporary life is as mysterious as words made of xenon, and yet she manages to give us glimpses of raw emotional truth.  Staunch realists and literalists might find themselves left cold by Bender's unconventional fiction, but those willing to accept a stark, matter-of-fact surrealism will be enchanted.raw emotional truth.  Staunch realists and literalists might find themselves left cold by Bender's unconventional fiction, but those willing to accept a stark, matter-of-fact surrealism will be enchanted.	2005-08-20
107824:US	52801489	R18EZ4RXGCJTLQ	0316859311	736293303	The Secret Purposes	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Internment on the Isle of Man	David Baddiel's The Secret Purposes reveals a little known occurrence during World War II:  the British internment of Germans, both Jews and suspected Nazis, on the Isle of Man. Isaac Fabian, the son of a rabbi and a professed Communist, and his German Christian wife Lulu emigrate from K&ouml;nigsberg to Cambridge during the beginning of the Nazi persecution of Jews.  There, they and their young daughter Rebekka try to fit into the British culture that has rules almost as anti-Semitic as the country of their birth.  Isaac is branded a class C, or dangerous, refugee for his Communist beliefs and Lulu, because she is non-Jewish and speaks better English, is classified as an A.  As a result of this difference in status, the family is separated when the war escalates, and Isaac and  thousands of other Jews and Germans are sent to an internment camp on the Isle of Man.  Lulu is left behind to search for a way to gain his release.  Meanwhile, an otherwise insignificant translator in the Ministry of Information, June Murray, decides to interview the Jews on the Isle of Man to uncover the truth about the atrocities being committed in their native land. There, she meets Isaac.  Meanwhile, in Cambridge, Lulu tries to gather another set of very different testimonials; she needs three from upstanding British citizens that attest to Isaac's good character so that he can be released from custody.<br /><br />Baddiel's writing is best when it describes the details of everyday life within the context of the times; however, despite his meticulous descriptions and the complexity of who his characters are, the author never manages to give his characters life except briefly, as in this early description of June: \\"She'd also had her hair cut, slightly longer than her usual high bob (she had been considering one of those finger waves that all the film stars had now, but had panicked at the last minute, thinking that it would be thought too attention-seeking for the Ministry).\\"  Too often we are told what the characters think and what they feel (\\"guilt\\" is ever-present), and the result is a mechanical manipulation of characters we are supposed to like but can't quite connect with.  There is flatness where there should be a spark.  That's not to say that this book is not interesting--it is--but that it doesn't fully realize its potential.<br /><br />While the plights of Isaac, Lulu, and June might not move us, certainly the plights of their real-life counterparts do.  This basis in historical fact gives this novel its significance because of what it reveals about racism, anti-Semitism, wrongful persecution, and the intentional withholding of information during wartime, issues that are as relevant today as they were during World War II.  Readers of historical fiction will probably appreciate this more than those simply looking for a compelling story.what the characters think and what they feel (\\"guilt\\" is ever-present), and the result is a mechanical manipulation of characters we are supposed to like but can't quite connect with.  There is flatness where there should be a spark.  That's not to say that this book is not interesting--it is--but that it doesn't fully realize its potential.       While the plights of Isaac, Lulu, and June might not move us, certainly the plights of their real-life counterparts do.  This basis in historical fact gives this novel its significance because of what it reveals about racism, anti-Semitism, wrongful persecution, and the intentional withholding of information during wartime, issues that are as relevant today as they were during World War II.  Readers of historical fiction will probably appreciate this more than those simply looking for a compelling story.	2005-08-17
107919:US	52801489	RT9NTP7IQDVNH	0140276335	363806782	White Teeth (Penguin Essentials)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Sometimes wonderful, sometimes self-indulgent: 3+ stars	The beginning of Zadie Smith's debut novel White Teeth is marked by an extraordinary voice: confident, affectionate, satiric, witty. Archibald Jones attempts to kill himself in a car outside a Muslim butchery while pigeons fleeing from the murderous butcher leave streaks of purple excrement across his windshield. Archie's life is spared by the irate butcher because \\". . .dying's no easy trick. And suicide can't be put on a list of Things to Do in between cleaning the grill pan and leveling the sofa leg with a brick.\\" This irreverent, comic beginning launches the novel into Archie's life and into that of his best friend Samad Iqbal. Archie, given a new chance at life, marries the much younger Clara, the daughter of a Jamaican Jehovah Witness mother and a passive, emotionally absent father, while Samad, who is always striving to be a good Muslim, enters into an arranged marriage with Alsana, a woman who was not even born while he fought alongside Archie during World War II. Their children - Irie Jones and the twins Millat and Magrid Iqbal - struggle to find their niche in their overwhelming white British surroundings. If Smith had left her novel at that, at exploring the cultural rifts that divide the families and their cultures, this book would have succeeded admirably; however, the author departs from this course to explore a world that contains a snobbishly intellectual English family, genetic engineering, radical Islam, and the end of the world as predicted by the Jehovah Witnesses. While these separate plots often serve as metaphors for the struggle to assimilate, they simply don't do enough to engage the reader. The result is a tedious, wholly unfunny second half. Characterizations that were done so well in the beginning become lost in the noise of the rest, making it difficult to care about what happens to Smith's inventions. Plot turns begin to feel forced, and reactions, unnatural. Most disappointingly, the witty voice of the narrator fades into the background, and is never as strong as it is in the first hundred pages.<br /><br />The novel owes much to the literary tradition of Victorians such as Dickens and Thackeray, who wrote sweeping novels with comic and/or biting wit. Smith's range is impressive for a first-time novelist, but her skills and literary instincts are not yet honed enough to carry off the sprawl of such a complex concept. Despite this, her descriptions and characterizations are first-rate, even if they get lost among the rest, and her turns of prose can be astonishing.<br /><br />This is one of those rare instances when I find it difficult to rate a book using the five star system. White Teeth is an ambitious, unconventional novel that ultimately tries to be too much. Readers who want to keep up on literary trends and celebrities will want to read this, since there is much to admire in Smith's work.  Five stars for the beginning, three stars for the rest.d, and is never as strong as it is in the first hundred pages. <br /> <br />The novel owes much to the literary tradition of Victorians such as Dickens and Thackeray, who wrote sweeping novels with comic and/or biting wit. Smith's range is impressive for a first-time novelist, but her skills and literary instincts are not yet honed enough to carry off the sprawl of such a complex concept. Despite this, her descriptions and characterizations are first-rate, even if they get lost among the rest, and her turns of prose can be astonishing. <br /> <br />This is one of those rare instances when I find it difficult to rate a book using the five star system. White Teeth is an ambitious, unconventional novel that ultimately tries to be too much. Readers who want to keep up on literary trends and celebrities will want to read this, since there is much to admire in Smith's work.  Five stars for the beginning, three stars for the rest.	2005-08-17
122292:US	52801489	R1WQO6R5RDKFJO	1582345333	177512202	A Long Stay in a Distant Land: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Long Stay in Orange County, California	In this fine debut novel, Chieh Chieng explores the off-beat characters of a Chinese-American family through three generations living in Orange County, California.  Louis Lum is a recent college graduate working as an underpaid fact-checker at a hot rod magazine, not the kind of position his mother Mirla had hoped for him.  Louis once reveled in rebelling against his mother; however, Mirla has recently died in a car accident, brought on when an overworked medical student, Hersey Collins, fell asleep behind the wheel, and Louis feels guilty at having disappointed her.  Louis's father Sonny calls Louis every night and threatens to murder Hersey to avenge Mirla's death.  Because Louis does not know how serious his father is about his intentions,  he moves in and stays up late with his father, listening to his father's rap records, keeping him from stabbing Hersey, and trying to figure him out.  Meanwhile Louis's feisty grandmother Esther is worried about her youngest son Bo, who moved to Hong Kong years ago and who recently has severed all communication with her.  Eventually, Esther convinces Louis to travel to Hong Kong to track down Bo to see if he is really \\"alive and in good health\\" while Esther watches over Sonny to make sure he doesn't follow through on his threats.<br /><br />The narrative weaves multiple points-of-view throughout the generations to give a full portrait of this quirky family. The Lums are an eccentric, unintentionally hilarious lot, caught up more in their American life than in their Chinese ancestry.  After all, Sonny is more adamant about blacks respecting their culture by listening to gangsta rap than he is about the truths and myths about his own.  Louis speaks Cantonese so badly that, for his whole life, he has been unintentionally calling his father \\"Old Bean\\" instead of \\"Old Man.\\"  Esther makes the worst turnip cakes ever cooked, botching the traditional recipe so badly that everyone ends up with stomach aches.  The story leaps backward and forward in time, from character to character, in a collage that coalesces around Louis, the youngest surviving member of a family prone to premature deaths.<br /><br />Chieh Chieng brings all this together with a dry wit and an eye for the absurd.  The understated humor never demeans his characters and instead makes them more lovable.  The result is an entertaining, heartfelt book about one family's oddities and how those quirks come to define them.rd and forward in time, from character to character, in a collage that coalesces around Louis, the youngest surviving member of a family prone to premature deaths. <br /> <br />Chieh Chieng brings all this together with a dry wit and an eye for the absurd.  The understated humor never demeans his characters and instead makes them more lovable.  The result is an entertaining, heartfelt book about one family's oddities and how those quirks come to define them.	2005-08-09
147125:US	52801489	R1TFCL03AIL0IJ	5550551497	803964066	Field Guide to Birds East of the Rockies	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A classic - and still the best	I own several field guides to birds, and none has been as useful in identifying birds as this classic.  Organized by first by  general type (swimmers, aerialists, long-legged waders, smaller waders, fowl-like birds, birds of prey, nonpasserine land birds, passerine - or perching - land birds) and then by family (sandpipers, owls, blue finches, etc.), finding an entry for that songbird sitting in the tree outside your window is a breeze, especially since you can disregard most sections and get right to the area (in this case, passerine birds) likely to describe it.<br /><br />Peterson's illustrations remain the best in the birding guides.  It's much easier to identify a bird based on these drawings than from a photograph.  Peterson uses arrows to point to key characteristics that distinguish one bird from a similar looking one.  Entries include a brief description of the bird in its habitat, how to distinguish it from similar species, voice, range, and habitat.  Each bird has its own color-coded reference map in the back to quickly view breeding, migratory, and year-round areas.  (Note:  because this book is an older guide, some species might have changed their ranges slightly; most remain true.)  The only description I've found not helpful has been the text describing the voice, or song, of these birds.<br /><br />Beginners will find helpful points in how to quickly identify birds using beak types, wing shape, tail characteristics, and other notable features.  Before long, novice birders will be able to know from the beak along that a bird belongs in the finch family, or that the tipping dihedral wings of a large bird in the distance mark it as a vulture.<br /><br />Whenever I see a new species, I always turn to this book first.  Small but dense, packed with information and first-rate illustrations, this is a great book to take with you on outings.	2005-07-26
147596:US	52801489	R3OHW2Z2RLG1MH	0876451121	529172811	Mrs. Caliban	Books	5	21	23	N	N	"A Change More Subtle Than a Threat of Danger, but Just as Urgent"	This short, allegorical, and seductively odd novel was first published in 1983, and was hailed as both a feminist and a literary \\"tour-de-force.\\"  Reading it today, more than twenty years later, it still has enormous power, less from its theme than from its deep sadness of love unfulfilled.  Dorothy is a housewife in a loveless, unfaithful marriage who encounters a passionate sea monster named Larry in her kitchen.  Six foot seven, frog-like, \\"well-built\\", and muscular, Larry is on the run, having escaped from an experiment.  The two become tender, clandestine lovers.  No one seems to notice, or catch the two of them during their trips to the beach, although Dorothy's friend Estelle notices a change in her.  Early on, though, the reader is told that Dorothy hears soft voices that she knows aren't real, hallucinations she has had since the death of her son during what should have been routine surgery.  Is Larry then just a fantasy, or is he real?  Does Dorothy need the idea of an alien lover to be able to accept the truth about her husband and marriage?  The delight in this book is that the author never answers these questions.  In the end, it doesn't matter whether he was real or not, only that Dorothy had him in her heart.<br /><br />Rachel Ingalls writes with extraordinary beauty and simplicity, making this book as seductive as Larry.  It is a testament to the author's skill that Larry, green and brown spotted, is more attractive and intriguing than the humans who surround Dorothy.  This story about passion and loss and a fantastical monster has hints of \\"The Beauty and the Beast\\" as well as more contemporary novels such as Darrieussecq's Pig Tales and Bakis's Lives of the Monster Dogs.  This book, however, stands apart from those others since it is less about deformity than it is about human need.	2005-07-26
148194:US	52801489	R11ZCIVAS7V9Z5	0316817252	672257950	Stokes Guide to Bird Behavior, Volume 1	Books	5	28	28	N	N	A Fascinating Look into Common Species	This first volume in the Stokes Nature Guide series offers detailed descriptions of species-specific wild bird behavior.  The twenty-five birds covered here include the Canada goose, the tree swallow, the mockingbird, the eastern kingbird, the common flicker, and the American gold finch.  For an example of the kind of detail this book contains, one needs only to turn to the section of pigeons; it contains a chart showing which behaviors occur during which months, an illustrated section on visual and audio displays as well as their meanings, territory, courtship, nest-building and breeding, plumage, seasonal movement, and feeder behavior.  This is not a field guide designed for identifying species, but is more of a course in animal behavior.<br /><br />Stokes's passion for bird watching is contagious; you'll never regard any of these species in the same manner after reading this.  No other book I've read has broken down bird behavior by species to such an engrossing degree.  The social nature of starlings and their roosting parties contrasts with the solitary habits of the American kestrel.  The playful acrobatics of the chickadee and its complex song contrast with the more mysterious behavior of the robin.<br /><br />Because each volume of this series contains birds without regard to grouping (i.e. songbirds, or birds of prey, or aquatic birds), readers must first check with the table of contents to see whether a specific bird is included.  Volume one contains: Canada goose, mallard, American kestrel, herring gull, pigeon, chimney swift, hairy woodpecker, eastern kingbird, tree swallow, blue jay, common crow, black-capped chickadee, house wren, mockingbird, gray catbird, American robin, starling, red-eyed vireo, common yellowthroat, house sparrow, red-winged blackbird, common grackle, American goldfinch, and song sparrow.  Many of these species are so ubiquitous that readers might stifle a yawn at the thought of reading about them, but Stokes goes so deeply into their behavior that they cease to be ordinary.  One of the most fascinating chapters is on the starling - that noisy, speckled bird that has taken over the northeast U.S. since its introduction.<br /><br />Because I've encountered no other book about birds quite like this one, I give it five stars despite its seeming random selection of species.y into their behavior that they cease to be ordinary.  One of the most fascinating chapters is on the starling - that noisy, speckled bird that has taken over the northeast U.S. since its introduction. <br /> <br />Because I've encountered no other book about birds quite like this one, I give it five stars despite its seeming random selection of species.	2005-07-26
167529:US	52801489	R219PWTOFY7JQQ	087805412X	893863547	Conversations with Joyce Carol Oates (Literary Conversations Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Prolific Author in Person	This compilation of interviews and feature articles  chronicles the maturation of one of America's most prolific writers.  Starting in 1969 with an article first published in The New York Times Book Review and ending with a Q and A session in 1989, this volume is somewhat incomplete since Oates has now entered her later years, but it offers an excellent chronological look at how the author's views and literary sensibilities have evolved from before she won the National Book Award (for _them_) to the well-recognized writer of the late 1980s.  Fans and scholars will find a wealth of material in these pages.<br /><br />The Jay Parini article gives a succinct but full idea of Joyce Carol Oates in her then-new Princeton house.  John Alfred Avant's 1972 interview delves into those writers who inspired her.  Princeton colleague Elaine Showalter offers a more personal description of the author, who is often portrayed as being aloof; it's hilarious to know that Showalter once convinced Oates to go shopping (an activity that Oates decidedly dislikes) at a discount clothing store where she picked up a red mohair coat.  The book includes an interview about her fascination with boxing, about her poetry (a genre she's less known for, though accomplished in), and her feelings about writing genre fiction under pseudonyms.<br /><br />Aspiring writers, fans, and scholars will find much here to entertain and enlighten.  In these pages, the skinny woman behind the owl glasses comes to life.	2005-07-13
168156:US	52801489	RTCCLB3AONI0J	0060781181	414142071	Bodies in Motion: Stories	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Sri Lankan Families Struggling Against Expectations	Mary Anne Mohanraj's collection of linked stories follows the lives of two Sri Lankan families, both in Sri Lanka and in the United States over the course of decades.  The characters struggle against expectations, either in a futile attempt to embrace them or an outright rejection of them.  For example, in the fine \\"The Emigrant,\\" seventeen year old Kuyila emigrates from the U.S. to Sri Lanka to fulfill the duties of a daughter and wife by marrying a man selected by their parents.  Despite all her best efforts to be a good wife and daughter-in-law, her efforts are tossed aside in a single night during Tamil/Sinhalese riots of the 1980s.  In the title story, American Chaya discovers that she cannot face who she is deep down, not even for the American man she loves.  She has tried so hard to be self-sufficient that she cannot connect with those whom she loves in either culture.<br /><br />Despite Mohanraj's literary talent, many of the stories feel incomplete.  In these weaker stories, the endings feel rushed, as though the author stopped herself from confronting the crux of the story.  She avoids risks and defining dramatic moments.  In \\"Lakshmi's Diary\\" the most important moment is described nineteen years after it happened, thus lessening the complex significance for the narrator.  The strongest stories, however, convey a believable sense of what it means to be these characters, both within their culture and as unique individuals.  The stories of the younger generation tend to be the most convincing.  I particularly liked \\"Tightness in the Chest,\\" the story of Vivek, in love with his unconventional wife Raji and living in the brutally cold Vermont.  Here, the roles are reversed, with Vivek taking over then household duties and enduring the unexplained absences of his wife.<br /><br />The promotional material for this book compares Mohanraj to fellow Sri Lankan Michael Ondaatje, a unfair comparison for two reasons:  one, their writing is dissimilar, with Mohanraj's style more direct and less poetic, and two, it sets up unrealistic expectations.  Mohanraj's writing here never approaches brilliance, but she offers some quiet stories about lives that the reader comes to care about.hanraj's style more direct and less poetic, and two, it sets up unrealistic expectations.  Mohanraj's writing here never approaches brilliance, but she offers some quiet stories about lives that the reader comes to care about.	2005-07-13
183161:US	52801489	R2PFNNNKGA5IGW	0060789441	291968767	Dying to Cross: The Worst Immigrant Tragedy in American History	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Harrowing Tale of Immigrants and "Coyotes": 4- stars	In May 2003, dozens of illegal immigrants who had recently crossed the Mexican border into the United States got into the nearly airtight back of a tractor trailer with the hope of reaching Houston.  Many had second thoughts, but their desperation and their dependence on the \\"coyotes\\" who arranged for their transportation won out.  Within minutes, the temperature inside the locked trailer soared, and the passengers inside knew they were in trouble.  By the time the driver finally opened the doors, seventeen people, including a five-year old boy, were already dead and another two were dying.  The survivors tumbled out into the hot Texas night.  By the time the authorities had sorted things out, it was clear that at least seventy-four people had been crammed in the trailer without air conditioning or water.<br /><br />In this slender book about the tragedy, author Jorge Ramos reconstructs the events that led up to that night, as well as some of the legal proceedings that followed, including the guilty pleas of several of the coyotes.  He interviews four of the surviving immigrants - Alberto, Enrique, Israel, and Jose - as well as the Mexican consul who handled the aftermath.  He rounds out his account by including statements from police officers, lawyers, friends, and family members.  Interestingly, Ramos makes an excellent case of how easy it is for immigrant to gain entry into the United States (the border crossings of all those interviewed were uneventful); the real peril for immigrants occurs within U.S. borders as they try to make their way toward cities and, ultimately, jobs.<br /><br />In his preface, Ramos  states \\"my sole intention is to tell the story from the point of view of those who actually lived through it.  Nothing more.\\"  This decision is ultimately the weakness of this book since the words of the four surviving immigrants are not insightful enough on their own.  Ramos should have chosen to be a stronger voice for the victims by describing in more vivid detail the lives they left and the implications of both their flight and their survival.  If, as he states in the preface, he wanted to make it clear that \\"severely flawed U.S. immigration policies . . .  as well as dire economic and social conditions in Mexico\\" were in part to blame, then he should have drawn a more complete picture of the specifics to give this story context.  He can't have it both ways - limiting his story to the perspective of the victims and then making a compelling socio-political statement.  I found myself wishing that he had gone deeper, either into the characters and lives of the victims, or into the conditions that made them so desperate to find work in the United States.<br /><br />When Ramos takes the time to fully describe a moment, the narrative is powerful.  He does an excellent job portraying the conditions, emotions, and physical decline of those trapped inside the truck, bringing a reality to what happened that the news reports at the time did not.  I find it odd that he points out several times that all the women survived and yet he seems not to have interviewed any of the female survivors in depth.  He asks the mother of the dead boy, who was not on the truck, why she thought all the women survived, as though somehow her words held weight, making her remarks seem more like filler than revelation.  The mother, however, is the most compelling presence in the book; her description of  her son's funeral is heartbreaking.<br /><br />Although uneven, this book deserves to be read for its account of illegal immigration and the unscrupulous people who prey on desperation.  It gives a human face to people who become largely invisible once integrated into the population.  Also available in a Spanish edition, this book should be widely read by those who care about the issues, even if the issues themselves are not well discussed.more vivid detail the lives they left and the implications of both their flight and their survival.    If, as he states in the preface, he wanted to make it clear that \\"severely flawed U.S. immigration policies . . .  as well as dire economic and social conditions in Mexico\\" were in part to blame, then he should have drawn a more complete picture of the specifics to give this story context.  He can't have it both ways - limiting his story to the perspective of the victims and then making a compelling socio-political statement.  I found myself wishing that he had gone deeper, either into the characters and lives of the victims, or into the conditions that made them so desperate to find work in the United States. <br /> <br />When Ramos takes the time to fully describe a moment, the narrative is powerful.  He does an excellent job portraying the conditions, emotions, and physical decline of those trapped inside the truck, bringing a reality to what happened that the news reports at the time did not.  I find it odd that he points out several times that all the women survived and yet he seems not to have interviewed any of the female survivors in depth.  He asks the mother of the dead boy, who was not on the truck, why she thought all the women survived, as though somehow her words held weight, making her remarks seem more like filler than revelation.  The mother, however, is the most compelling presence in the book; her description of  her son's funeral is heartbreaking.    <br /> <br />Although uneven, this book deserves to be read for its account of illegal immigration and the unscrupulous people who prey on desperation.  It gives a human face to people who become largely invisible once integrated into the population.  Also available in a Spanish edition, this book should be widely read by those who care about the issues, even if the issues themselves are not well discussed.	2005-07-02
186076:US	52801489	R27VAVX2OWH4FV	0374153892	282518591	Gilead: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The Life of a Pious Man	Marilynne Robinson's long-awaited second novel has won accolades from critics and the Pulitzer Prize, although this contemplative work is not for everyone.  Told through the device of a letter to a son, the book meanders through personal relationships, family history, and the meaning of faith. John Ames, a pastor in the small Iowan town of Gilead and suffering from heart disease, is nearing the end of his life at 76.  In keeping with Christian tradition, he has been granted a second life with a young wife and son, but now he must face his own mortality with the strength of a man who can imagine but who will never know what kind of man his son will become.  His legacy to his son, this letter, becomes his own journey to self-understanding and redemption as he meditates on matters of love, family, Christianity, forgiveness, and weakness.  His biggest challenge--his difficult relationship with his namesake and son of his best friend--reveals the depths of who he is and wants to be.<br /><br />Robinson is a wonderful stylist; you won't find a single clunky phrase or off-key note in this novel.  Her insights and descriptions come across as exceedingly honest and true-to-life; however, these come at the expense of story.  Readers will find that they care more about knowing who these characters are and what makes them tick rather than what becomes of them.  This, then, will be the novel's failing for many:  the plot is thin, held together only by the narrator's meditations on his life.  Patient readers and those who like the meat of character development and theme will savor each page while those eager for a good story in addition to these elements will be disappointed.  Likewise, those intrigued by matters of Christianity will delight in Ames's wisdom while those uninterested in such matters might be bored.  Readers would be well-advised to consider what they value in fiction before picking this up.<br /><br />Gilead is an ambitious novel, and it displays the maturity of a writer who has an unfailing ear for language and character.  Readers who liked the introspective Saturday (Ian McEwan) and Aloft (Chang-Rae Lee) will probably appreciate Robinson's more philosophical novel.an unfailing ear for language and character.  Readers who liked the introspective Saturday (Ian McEwan) and Aloft (Chang-Rae Lee) will probably appreciate Robinson's more philosophical novel.	2005-06-30
189170:US	52801489	R3KXNK7KHXILPA	0789450747	386399339	American Horticultural Society Pests and Diseases: The Complete Guide to Preventing, Identifying and Treating Plant Problems	Books	4	23	23	N	Y	A Good Supplemental Guide for Gardeners	The organizational structure of this guide to identifying and treating plant problems makes navigating the many causes of damage easy.  The first section contains thumbnail photographs of specific problems, arranged by plant parts affected:  leaf problems; stem and bud problems; flower problems; fruit, berry, nut, and vegetable problems; soil, root, tuber, and bulb problems; and lawn problems.  The book then follows the problems with a brief photographic section of beneficial insects so gardeners do not kill off the bugs that help maintain environmental balance.  Good gardening habits, including soil and nutrient analysis and pest/disease control, are given adequate space.  The bulk of the book, however, is the A to Z guide which describes symptoms, cause, and control of just about every garden problem.  Readers are expected to first identify the problem using the photographs in the beginning section and then turn to more information in the A to Z guide.  The problem is, different plants with the same disease may not appear anything like the chosen (and small) photograph.  Diagnosis is sometimes difficult.  The index to individual plant problems is somewhat of a help to rule out similar problems that don't affect the plant in question, but I found myself wishing that this guide were a little more complete.<br /><br />Recommended treatment is most often organic -- removing pests by hand, using insecticidal soap, introducing beneficial insects, or removing all affected plants.  My favorite suggestion for wasp control is to vacuum them from their nests, seal the vacuum bag, and stick it in the freezer to kill the wasps.  I'm sure my family would just love to have dying wasps next to the ice cream.  Fortunately, most suggestions are not as impractical; they maintain a regard for both plant and human health.  When true pesticides are the only recourse, the books refers to them as \\"labeled insecticides\\" without specifying which kind would be effective.  (For pesticide users, try an Ortho book instead.)<br /><br />I found that this book makes a good supplement to my other gardening books.  Very few books are dedicated to pests and diseases, making this a valuable resource for the gardener.  I recommend pairing this book with Princeton University Press's Garden Insects of North America.rs, try an Ortho book instead.)<br /><br />I found that this book makes a good supplement to my other gardening books.  Very few books are dedicated to pests and diseases, making this a valuable resource for the gardener.  I recommend pairing this book with Princeton University Press's Garden Insects of North America.	2005-06-27
189236:US	52801489	RCA8X82OHCV9S	0691095612	528790525	Garden Insects of North America: The Ultimate Guide to Backyard Bugs (Princeton Field Guides)	Books	5	63	64	N	N	The best book available for identifying garden insects	Whether you harbor a fascination for insects or are on a search-and-destroy mission, you will find this enormous identification book a fascinating look at North American insects.  Organized by the type of damage the insects inflict (leaf chewers, trunk borers, sap suckers, etc.) this book devotes considerable space to individual insects, discussing such specifics as hosts, damage, distribution, appearance, and habits. Major pests are given more space than the less common.  For example, the Colorado Potato Beetle is given nearly a full page while the asparagus miner is described in a short paragraph.  The accompanying color photographs are usually helpful, though some could be improved since the visual details aren't always clear.<br /><br />Especially for organic gardeners, the section on beneficial species is extremely helpful.  Since predators are not always identifiable to the novice, the photographs and accompanying text assist in protecting the species that will provide a natural balance in the garden.  For example, most people will not recognize the larva form of the lady beetle, the species with a voracious appetite for aphids, adelgids, and other pests, but this guide shows all life stages of it.  Other beneficials, including some species of wasps, look as ugly and as destructive as their prey. An appendix cross-references particular plants with their most likely pests, which cuts down the time it takes to identify most species.<br /><br />Because of both the color photographs, some showing the different life stages of a particular species, and the text, this guide is a wonderful tool for the gardener or budding entomologist.	2005-06-27
192975:US	52801489	R33MOW7S3U1CHT	0060763876	653774075	Map of Bones (Sigma Force)	Books	4	144	159	N	N	A Mad Race to Thwart a Conspiracy	This taut thriller about a conspiracy of (yet another) secret religious sect of the Catholic Church delivers all the punch of a well-plotted novel.  Grayson Pierce, an operative for the U.S. top secret Sigma Force, is called to command a group of two other agents, Monk and Kat, to investigate the mysterious massacre of church goers in Cologne, Germany and the theft of the cathedral's relics, the bones of the Magi.  They are assigned to work with an intel group from the Vatican,  Monsignor Vigor Verona  and his niece Rachel, a lieutenant in the Carabinieri Corps.  The five quickly discover that the deaths in Cologne were carried out by the Imperial Dragon Court, a secret society dating back to the Middle Ages, and that the theft of relics in that church was just the beginning.  Through Vigor's vast knowledge of church symbolism, history, and architecture, and the others' combined education in chemistry, physics, and engineering, they begin to solve the mystery that could lead to Armageddon.  Their lives are threatened at every turn as they race the ruthless members of the Dragon Court to uncover the next clue.<br /><br />Umberto Eco, with his novel Foucault's Pendulum, launched the literary premise of a complex religious conspiracy by a secret sect, and Dan Brown popularized it with The Da Vinci Code.  James Rollins's book is much better than The Da Vinci Code because of its smooth writing and plotting and better integrated historical details.  While he cannot compete with Eco in the writing and density of thought, Rollins's approach allows for a breathtakingly fast pace and incredible suspense.  Sometimes the connections between the past and the riddle at hand are tenuous, although the information itself is usually fascinating.  Rollins moves convincingly from one point of view to another, using all to satisfying effect, but he falls flat when trying to stir up the emotional connections between characters.  Not to worry, though, since the action easily distracts the reader from this flaw.  The truly intriguing aspect of this novel is that every character believes that Biblical Armageddon will occur if the Dragon Court solves the final riddle.  Although the clues are solved using science, they lead to what is ultimately a supernatural mystery.<br /><br />Map of Bones is billed as \\"the first in the exciting new Sigma adventure series\\" so it should be interesting to see how Rollins follows up this series debut.  He'll need to deepen the characterization of his Sigma Force if he wants his readers to identify with them throughout a series, but his excellent storytelling ability will serve him well.<br /><br />This novel makes fantastic escapist reading and yet delivers some intellectual depth to distinguish it from many other thrillers.  Highly recommended for readers looking for a good thriller.er from this flaw.  The truly intriguing aspect of this novel is that every character believes that Biblical Armageddon will occur if the Dragon Court solves the final riddle.  Although the clues are solved using science, they lead to what is ultimately a supernatural mystery.      Map of Bones is billed as \\"the first in the exciting new Sigma adventure series\\" so it should be interesting to see how Rollins follows up this series debut.  He'll need to deepen the characterization of his Sigma Force if he wants his readers to identify with them throughout a series, but his excellent storytelling ability will serve him well.       This novel makes fantastic escapist reading and yet delivers some intellectual depth to distinguish it from many other thrillers.   Highly recommended for readers looking for a good thriller.	2005-06-24
198508:US	52801489	R2GWY4K7WV16E6	0060742887	382907390	Devil's Corner	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Fast-paced and Entertaining	Lisa Scottoline's latest entry into the legal thriller genre proves to be one of her best-paced yet, with events unfolding fast enough to keep the reader turning pages but not so abruptly that the suspense is diluted.  Once again, the setting is Philadelphia, and once again we have a young attorney bent on finding out facts for herself.  Vicki Allegretti is new to the U.S. Attorney's office when she and her ATF partner Morty walk into a row house to interview an informant and find themselves under fire.  Morty is fatally shot, and Vicki makes it her personal business to bring his killers to justice despite the personal danger.  She finds herself in the Philly neighborhood of Devil's Corner, a neighborhood on the brink of being consumed by crack houses and violence and where her father grew up.  Vicki's search for justice becomes as much for her father and his childhood neighborhood as it is for Morty.  Teamed with the wise-cracking, model-gorgeous, and athletic Reheema, Vicki navigates her way through leads and dangerous situations to uncover the heart of a conspiracy.  For anyone who knows Philadelphia, the descriptions of the city will be delightfully familiar.<br /><br />Vicki is an all-too-familiar Scottoline heroine with her disapproving Italian parents and her professional dedication as backdrops to the story.  Her love interest has as much depth as the glossy fashion magazine he seems to step out from, and her colleagues are predictably unhelpful.  Reheema, however, is a much more complex character:  a scholar and an athlete sent to jail for a straw charge, she is both streetwise and witty, with enough sense for both characters.  While Reheema's transformation of Devil's Corner is forced and too idealistic, she is the only character in this book capable of enacting such change.<br /><br />The strength of this thriller is not in the characters but in the pacing and suspense leading to the denouement.  Like most thrillers, the ending is somewhat predictable, although Scottoline provides enough red herrings so that the reader is never sure when to trust her suspicions.  This novel makes a great vacation book since it makes few demands on the reader and offers escapism in its purest, heart-quickening form.le, although Scottoline provides enough red herrings so that the reader is never sure when to trust her suspicions.  This novel makes a great vacation book since it makes few demands on the reader and offers escapism in its purest, heart-quickening form.	2005-06-20
207261:US	52801489	R47J644D9IY86	0385511809	740331338	Saturday: A novel	Books	5	7	10	N	N	The World According to Neurology	Protagonist Henry Perowne's Saturday begins in the pre-dawn hours when he finds himself unable to sleep and views, by accident, the flaming descent of a plane into London's Heathrow.  He immediately thinks of terrorism and mass death, and imagines the inescapable fate of the imagined passengers.  Like everything else in this introspective novel, nothing is exactly as it seems.  The plane crash is the first inkling of this truth.  Perowne is a talented neurosurgeon all too aware of his middle age and its necessary transitions.  Navigating around the backdrop of an anti-war protest, he begins the routine of his Saturday with his mind on his daughter Daisy's scheduled arrival to celebrate the publication of her first book of poetry; however, a series of events that at first seem unrelated begin to come together in a tense showdown that reveals exactly what Perowne, his wife, father-in-law, and two adult children are made of.<br /><br />McEwan uses small events--such as the witnessed exchange of drugs between a pusher and a new user--to launch Henry into his views, insights, and life history, thus developing an entire life over the course of a single day.  Henry sees almost everything through the lens of his profession, diagnosing and grasping for meaning through his understanding of the complexity of the central nervous system.  His musician son and poet daughter remain beautiful mysteries to him, artistic and independent despite Perowne's genetic contribution.<br /><br />Ian McEwan's talent for elevating the minutiae of life into a compelling narrative is nowhere better demonstrated than in this novel.  The precise descriptions of neurosurgery and neuroscience are fascinating, not only because of the information they impart but because of the affection with which they are described.  While one could say that very little happens in this novel, one could also say that everything happens.  McEwan explores what it means to be on the brink of war, both internationally and personally, and what actions and compromises a man might be willing to make to protect his territory and the loved ones within it.<br /><br />I liked this novel better than McEwan's previous Atonement, primarily because I found it less mannered.  I highly recommend this for readers of literary fiction; however, its interior nature will turn off readers who like a more structured plot.and what actions and compromises a man might be willing to make to protect his territory and the loved ones within it.    I liked this novel better than McEwan's previous Atonement, primarily because I found it less mannered.  I highly recommend this for readers of literary fiction; however, its interior nature will turn off readers who like a more structured plot.	2005-06-12
211702:US	52801489	R36WX60QEJ2ZMU	0060778970	142631692	Zorro: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An affectionate retelling of a legend	Isabel Allende makes the legend of Zorro her own in this rambling, though fast-paced, account of Diego de la Vega, the mestizo son of a Spanish father and Shoshone mother.  Born of warrior stock, Diego and his Indian \\"milk brother\\" Bernardo dream up schemes, are initiated into the ways of their mothers' tribe, and are taught aristocratic Spanish culture, including the fine art of fencing.  The novel traces the brothers' childhood in California and their eventual coming-of-age in Barcelona, where Diego begins to formulate the idea of Zorro, or fox, his Indian guardian spirit, while Bernado acts as his actual protector.  The years apart from his father's hacienda in California prepare Diego for his eventual role as swashbuckling protector of the defenseless and oppressed in his Spanish-controlled homeland.<br /><br />Readers will recognize Allende's distinctive storytelling style from the opening lines.  As always, she expertly melds history with legend, embracing hyperbole and a sweeping view of her characters' world.  With recent novels, she has relied less and less on the magic realism that made her famous when House of Spirits was published, and here, the magic seems an afterthought, something obligatory but which doesn't add much to novel itself.  In Zorro, the real \\"magic\\" is in the storytelling -the epic tale of a hero in the making.  (Allende wisely ends the novel just as Zorro comes into his own.)  Some plot turns seem forced, but readers will happily turn the pages to discover what happens next.<br /><br />Entertaining, well-paced, and affectionate--this novel makes for great summer reading.  Those who like gritty realism or who demand intellectual depth in their fiction would be best advised to look elsewhere, but most readers will enjoy the circuitous route Allende takes her characters, from California to French-occupied Barcelona and back to California.	2005-06-08
217754:US	52801489	R2YDC2XUUMONYJ	0060006781	837161601	Nature Via Nurture: Genes, Experience, and What Makes Us Human	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	The Relationship Between Genes and the Environment	In this lucid, intelligent exploration of the role of genetics in human behavior, author Matt Ridley lays out his thesis that the role of genetics is not as cut-and-dried as people have traditionally believed.  He convincingly argues that genes and the effect of the environment are so closely linked that they cannot be reliably separated from each other, thus rendering the age-old debate of nature versus nurture obsolete.  Genes are expressed and repressed according to factors beyond that of a closed system; yet, environment alone cannot be expected to change the genetic nature of a person.  This sliding scale of influence makes so much sense that one had to wonder why people bothered to take sides, especially since Ridley is able to turn experiments thought to prove one side into a good case for a combination of the two.<br /><br />Ridley does an excellent job of writing coherently for the lay reader without dumbing down the science.  His use of analogies, while not always helpful, aim to assist the non-scientist in understanding the biological mechanisms and effects even at the molecular level.  This book is most fascinating for its summary of studies involving the behavior of organisms and how they relate to the seemingly much more complex set of human behaviors.  How worms and fruit flies learn becomes a cornerstone to understanding how we might.  The way monkeys pass on fears and nonchalance help us to understand why the \\"basic\\" human fears are not feared by all humans.  Genes that predispose a certain rodent species to care for the young enlighten the power of love in humans.  In every case, the author explains what we know, and what we can surmise, and how we might be wrong in what we've come to accept.<br /><br />By discussing experiments in molecular biology, animal behavior, evolution, psychology, and medicine, Ridley gives a broad picture of how genes (nature) are influenced by the environment (nurture).  While professionals working any of those fields might feel that the author did not go into enough depth, the average reader with an interest in animal/human behavior and genetics will be fascinated by what Ridley has to say.  The section on schizophrenia and its elusive causes alone is worth reading this book.lds might feel that the author did not go into enough depth, the average reader with an interest in animal/human behavior and genetics will be fascinated by what Ridley has to say.  The section on schizophrenia and its elusive causes alone is worth reading this book.	2005-06-03
255587:US	52801489	R11P9E1EZRJ9ED	0452275725	978016456	World's Fair	Books	5	41	43	N	N	Historical fiction with a literary sensibility	Written ten years after Ragtime, Doctorow's World's Fair seems to be a far simpler book, primarily because it is all told from a single point of view, that adult Edgar looking back at his childhood and its significance.  Doctorow, however, creates a complex picture of what it meant to be Jewish and growing up in the Bronx during the 1930's, a time when Americans struggled against the hardships of the Great Depression.  Much as he does in Ragtime, Doctorow sets up the beginning - the birth of Edgar - as a time of innocence and imagined perfection that eventually gets marred by reality, with the safety of childhood challenged as much by family dynamics as current events.<br /><br />As with all Doctorow's later books, there is a strong element of nostalgia, a sense that the author is writing about better, more defining times.  Edgar's progression through childhood and his sharp observations of all that unfolds around him comprise the plot.  His mother, caught in a squabble of a marriage but dedicated to her family all the same, gives Edgar and his older brother Donald stability where their unreliable but dashing father cannot.  As the 1939 World's Fair approaches, Edgar places his hopes on winning an essay contest about the All-American Boy to get free tickets, but, of course, events don't transpire exactly as Edgar expects.<br /><br />The novel is meant to be taken as autobiographical (the \\"E\\" in E.L. Doctorow stands for \\"Edgar.')  This carefully constructed fiction, with its concrete details and straightforward style, melds invention with truth, giving this novel an intimate, honest tone.  The method of adopting historical details - events, personalities, mass psychology - gives the character context within the times and lends the sense of a greater story to what is essentially a coming-of-age novel.<br /><br />Although World's Fair is not my favorite Doctorow novel, it remains a fine addition to any reading list.	2005-05-02
256544:US	52801489	R3KAOFP1784X2P	0452283868	921712930	Sula (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Early But Powerful Morrison	If The Bluest Eye marked Toni Morrison's entry into the literary world, then Sula established her as a literary force.  This short novel follows two friends, Sula and Nel, who grow up together in the Bottom, a black section of an Ohio town, and who  become fast friends despite their radically different home lives.  When a horrific accident occurs and the girls decide to keep it a secret, they are both forever connected, even as the event begins to drive them apart.  Nel embraces the conventional life of her own mother, marrying Jude right out of high school, while Sula escapes her wildly distressed family life for college and a life of expensive clothes and white men.  However, when Sula returns and everything bad about the Bottom is blamed on her, Nel is forced to confront what is \\"bad\\" within herself.<br /><br />Told from the points of view of many characters, Sula provides a multifaceted portrait of a community and, within it, a friendship.  Morrison confronts superstition, the role of women in black society, the ravages of war, legacy, and the gray areas of morality and perception that don't make any of the preceding easy to define.  Students studying this work might want to concentrate on characterization (Sula's mother Hannah and her grandmother Eva are as complex as Sula and Nel) and the rhythm of Morrison's prose, especially in the first-person sections.<br /><br />Morrison has proven through her body of work that she is one of America's premier novelists, a writer who can portray multiple levels of even the simplest plot.  Since she has written so few novels (nine at this writing), readers should easily be able to familiarize themselves with all her books.  For those who have not read Morrison, I recommend starting with this book or Song of Solomon since the others are either more demanding or, in the case of The Bluest Eye, not as complex.	2005-05-02
260839:US	52801489	R13XNEM7OOH6EM	0618329706	509942691	Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close	Books	5	23	32	N	Y	Witty, Sweet, Heartbreaking, Wise - Absolutely Brilliant!	Jonathan Safran Foer has written a novel for our times, a story so deeply affecting and wise that it has to potential to have an impact far beyond that of most novels.  Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close is a collage about the world we live in:  its terrorism, its beauty, its love, its mysteries, its absurdities, its people.  Oskar is a precocious nine-year old who writes letters to famously intelligent people asking to be their prot&eacute;g&eacute;, invents a \\"googolplex\\" of devices (such as an ambulance that tells people when a loved one is inside and a lollipop that tells people how they are feeling), who knows a tremendous amount of facts (many of which he wishes he didn't know) - and who has lost his beloved father in the World Trade Center bombings.  Oskar harbors a secret about that day that he cannot bring to share with anyone, not even his mother or grandmother.  When he discovers a strange key among his father's possessions, he sets out in the five boroughs of New York to see what it unlocks.  His narrative is punctuated by that of his grandfather, a man left speechless by what he experienced during the bombing of Dresden, and his grandmother, also a survivor of the Dresden firebombing, who loves Oskar in ways his mother cannot and who tries to make sense of why her husband left her before the birth of their son.  The relationships are complex and heartfelt, and are marked by an affection that will make readers laugh from the pleasure of them.  Just when you think Foer can't get any deeper with his insights, he does.<br /><br />Foer embraces postmodernism by including stock photographs that don't have a depth of meaning until the text gives it to them, as well as letters, email, handwritten notes, and a numerical conversation between Oskar's grandparents.  This is not cold postmodernism, though; the artifacts contained here illustrate the depth of  Oskar's longing and the complexity of the world we live in.  Many will make readers smile as they make the connections to Oskar's \\"story of my life.\\"  At first this novel reminded me somewhat of The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time, but it quickly plunges into something much more multifaceted and universal:  it ultimately is about surviving love.  Its quirky humor - how can a novel about the WTC tragedy be so funny? - makes even the most difficult moments easier to read.<br /><br />Everyone should read this novel.  You will not emerge unchanged.  This novel will be known as the quintessential 9/11 novel, the one that will forever categorize all that the tragedy unleashed in America.  If you read nothing else this year, read this book.to Oskar's \\"story of my life.\\"   At first this novel reminded me somewhat of The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time, but it quickly plunges into something much more multifaceted and universal:  it ultimately is about surviving love.   Its quirky humor - how can a novel about the WTC tragedy be so funny? - makes even the most difficult moments easier to read.   <br /> <br />Everyone should read this novel.  You will not emerge unchanged.  This novel will be known as the quintessential 9/11 novel, the one that will forever categorize all that the tragedy unleashed in America.  If you read nothing else this year, read this book.	2005-04-28
268682:US	52801489	R14GY2YDNBQ7ER	1582973288	623510848	2005 Guide to Literary Agents (Guide to Literary Agents)	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	The Path to Getting Published	In today's publishing world, acquiring an agent is perhaps the most difficult task a writer faces - even more difficult than getting an manuscript published.  The 2005 Guide to Literary Agents provides essential guidance to those who have a finished and polished book manuscript or script, and who wish to find representation.  While this book won't make the process easy, its helpful listings and articles will direct writers toward the best agents for their work.<br /><br />Unlike many of the Writer Digest Books guides, this one contains valuable information in its articles:  \\"FAQs About Agents\\"; \\"Author-Agent Etiquette\\"; \\"Agents Share Their Secrets\\"; \\"How to Find the Right Agent\\"; \\"How Do I Contact Agents\\"; \\"The Art of the Synopsis\\"; and more.  Of course, the listings themselves, of over 600 literary agents, constitute the bulk of the book.  Each entry contains contact info, what kind of material the agents represents, terms, and, often, recent sales.  Near the end, the editors provide a section on writers' conferences, where many authors meet their eventual agents. (Note that many agents do not wish to be listed in this book because of the volume of submissions it generates.)<br /><br />If you want to get your book published by a major publisher, you must have an agent.  Publishers now rely on agents to screen manuscripts for them, to weed out the unprofessional and the boring, so that when you acquire an agent, you've conquered a large part of the battle.  Beyond that, however, you'll need an agent who has extensive connections within publishing, who knows exactly which editors like your kind of material, and how to present your work in the best possible light.  Finding that agent among the listings here won't be easy, but at least Writers Digest Books will give you a gentle push in the right direction.<br /><br />Highly recommended for those who already have a polished book manuscript or script.  For those who aren't yet ready to find representation, save your money for next year's guide.ur money for next year's guide.	2005-04-21
270930:US	52801489	R1LY5CRO8TO7P2	1582972745	662474246	2005 Novel & Short Story Writer's Market	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Solid Guide to Fiction Markets	Every year Writer's Digest Books comes out with a new set of guides for writers, each containing updated entries and new articles. This particular guide is directed at fiction writers only; unlike in the more general Writer's Market, here literary journals publishing only poetry and magazines publishing only nonfiction are excluded, making it easier for fiction writers to navigate.<br /><br />Although the author interviews and craft articles are interesting, the market entries are the most valuable.  Changes in editorial staff, focus, and the demise/birth of new markets every year necessitate buying each year's edition.  Beginning writers will need to carefully read \\"The Business of Fiction Writing\\" while experienced writers will bypass most of the front matter to get right to the listings.  Not all magazines and book publishers are listed here since the guide requires the cooperation of the publishers, but the compilation is extensive enough for most writers.<br /><br />The 2005 edition contains interviews with novelist Margaret Atwood,  anthology editor Shannon Ravenel, literary editor Jill Adams, and graphic novelist David Mack.  Of particular interest is a piece titled \\"Premiere Voices\\", where four authors, including The Kite Runner's Khaled Hosseini, describe their different paths to publication.  Articles addressing individual genres (romance , mystery, sci-fi, horror, etc.), self-promotion, and craft and technique round out the front matter.<br /><br />As a published novelist and short story writer, I find the yearly listings mostly helpful for the placement of short fiction.  Novelists would do better to get an agent first (see 2005 Guide to Literary Agents) unless they believe their fiction is better suited to a smaller press, in which case the listings here would be extremely helpful.  Writers are advised to read each entry carefully to determine compatibility with their own writing.<br /><br />Highly recommended for writers trying to publish their fiction.eir fiction.	2005-04-20
270952:US	52801489	R11MLGYD9QT9NF	0060006927	390499095	The Great Mortality : An Intimate History of the Black Death, the Most Devastating Plague of All Time	Books	4	87	89	N	N	The Sprawling Circumstances of the Black Plague	In this book exploring the times and the details of the Black Plague, John Kelly introduces the lay reader to the pestilence that wiped out up to sixty percent of some of Europe's most bustling cities.  From Messina to Florence to Paris to London - and all the cities and towns between and around them, the populace could not stop the spread of this particularly virulent form of Yersinia pestis, whether they sought laws to restrict it or simply chose to ignore it.  The book provides insights into some of the potential causes of why this bout of plague is unequaled in history:  sanitation, specific rodent populations (including that of the tarabagan of the Russian steppes), societal traditions, a burgeoning \\"global\\" economy, warfare, bacteriology, and other theories.  The epidemiology of the disease and the forms it takes, from the \\"gurgling\\" bubos of bubonic plague to the respiratory infection that sounds frighteningly close to the hemorrhagic fevers, make for fascinating, if gruesome, reading.<br /><br />The author recreates the events of individuals who succumbed to Y. pestis through written documentation and his own imagination.  For an example, he writes \\"The headstone tells us only enough to suggest the following scenario . . . \\"  He then continues for a page and a half to describe in detail the final days of a husband and wife.  I found the method to make the plague more \\"intimate\\" through invented details somewhat troubling, although readers will find these passages the most compelling because of their focus on the individual.  The book can occasionally be repetitive, stating in one chapter what was stated earlier.  The strength of this historical account - and what readers will remember most about it - is the vivid depiction of medieval life as it circles around, and then centers on, the plague itself.  The psychological damage beyond the physical loss is poignantly illustrated on almost every page.<br /><br />The author outlines not only the complex forces at work during the plague, but also the far-reaching consequences of it, both in the changes it wrought more or less immediately in Europe and in our approach to disease today.  Readers intrigued by the societal and environmental elements of a pandemic will find this history rich with detail and complexity.he plague, but also the far-reaching consequences of it, both in the changes it wrought more or less immediately in Europe and in our approach to disease today.  Readers intrigued by the societal and environmental elements of a pandemic will find this history rich with detail and complexity.	2005-04-20
278977:US	52801489	R383CS85PO9LHU	0618197354	786188992	The Best American Short Stories 2004 (The Best American Series)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Another fine anthology from BASS	The 2004 Best American Short Stories collection, edited by Lorrie Moore, is the fattest BASS anthology yet.  With stories by Sherman Alexie, T.C. Boyle, Deborah Eisenberg, Paula Fox, Jill McCorkle, Alice Munro, Annie Proulx, John Edgar Wideman, and John Updike, among others, the collection features a wide range of writers, most well known.  Many stories come from The New Yorker (eight), a couple from Harper's, but the rest were originally published in some of the country's best, relatively small literary journals:  Tin House, Granta, The Missouri Review, The Virginia Quarterly Review, and Zyzzyva.<br /><br />Sherman Alexie's \\"What You Pawn I Will Redeem\\" follows a homeless Native American man living spreading good will and fortune among his destitute friends, none of whom have much hope except in the moment of a brief celebration.  Deborah Eisenberg's \\"Some Other, Better Otto\\" traces the psychological crisis of a gay man whose relationship with his partner is the only functional one in an otherwise dysfunctional family.  In \\"Runaway\\", Alice Munro portrays two lonely women as they try to find strength in lies and fantasy, even as a harsher reality awaits each.  Mary Yukari Waters's \\"Mirror Studies\\" turns primate and nature studies inward, toward a man who faces his mortality.<br /><br />In the past ten years or so, the BASS anthology has gotten more and more predictable, with a heavy emphasis toward the traditional, and while the trend is not broken by this volume, I was pleased to discover some messier stories - narratives such as Edward P. Jones's \\"A Rich Man\\" that are not tightly controlled and instead are allowed to breathe.  Still, as long as Houghton Mifflin continues to choose New Yorker writers as editors, this is what readers will see in the series.<br /><br />While different readers will appreciate different stories, most will find several that will stick with them.  If you like cutting edge stories, I suggest getting the latest Pushcart Prize collection instead, a series that ignores the commercial publications in favor of the small literary press.ection instead, a series that ignores the commercial publications in favor of the small literary press.	2005-04-13
279681:US	52801489	R297DRRUOYJBVC	0316710628	264333582	Honeymoon	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Well-paced plot with some loose ends	This well-paced, entertaining thriller pits two seasoned role-players against each other:  John O'Hara, undercover FBI agent, and Nora Sinclair, charming serial killer.  Nora, thin and gorgeous, with expensive, discerning tastes, is the type of woman men dream of seducing.  She's witty and fun, and wealthy men cannot help falling for her.  And fall they do - literally - as Nora has a method of murder that escapes detection.  When John O'Hara is assigned to her case, life for both gets complicated as the two jockey for information, never certain what the other knows.  Told from the alternating points-of-view, the novel delves into the psychology of both characters, allowing the reader to know more than they do, which makes for great suspense. (The audio version is read by two actors, one male and one female, which increases the sense of characters at cross-purposes.)<br /><br />This book makes a great beach or vacation book - except for the end, which fails to address certain points brought up earlier in the novel.  The brand-name dropping  gets tedious at times (trust me, you'll be able to recite the kind of water Nora drinks, the model of car she drives, and  the list of contemporary thriller writers her mother likes to read.)  And the plot twists seem manufactured instead of natural.  Despite these flaws, Patterson and co-author Roughan cook up a sometimes steamy, sometimes harrowing tale of murder and intrigue.<br /><br />Readers of thrillers will enjoy this, although it's not one of those books that sticks with you.  The fast-paced plot and the two points-of-view keep readers turning the pages, hungry for what happens next.	2005-04-12
280315:US	52801489	R2CHKZRNU0N2XD	1555219063	425128450	Nuevo Cubano Cooking	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Good recipes, gorgeous photos	This cookbook printed on semi-gloss paper features the Floridian take on Cuban recipes, using local ingredients and techniques to create a fusion of both countries.  Covering everything from appetizers to desserts, most of the recipes are simple to prepare yet exotic in appearance.  There's a delicious recipe for \\"Pink Coleslaw\\", a slaw containing pink grapefruit sections, lime juice, carrots, and the obligatory shredded cabbage.  \\"Grilled Isla Bonita Pork\\" depends on the simplicity of spices rubbed into the meat.  The white chocolate coconut tart is a show-stopper for dessert.  Author Mullen also includes more common recipes such as crab cakes, black bean soup, and cr&egrave;me brul&eacute;e.  The sides, sauces, and appetizers tend to be particularly innovative:  mango mustard; pineapple salsa; smoked marlin spread; and shrimp-chorizo fajitas in lettuce.<br /><br />Almost every recipe includes a sharp, colorful, full-page photograph, making this book as fun to browse as it is to cook from.  The directions are clear and easy-to-follow; most do not require much experience in cooking technique.  The glossary of ingredient in the front provides descriptions of the more unusual ingredients to help cooks unfamiliar with Caribbean flavors.<br /><br />Nuevo Cubano makes a nice addition to a cook's kitchen, especially for those looking for something different.	2005-04-12
287534:US	52801489	R3TGJYTBTGBIJN	0060197315	895113043	The Greatest Dishes!: Around the World in 80 Recipes	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A Culinary Sampling of Recipes and Their History	Anya Von Bremzen's book places its emphasis more on the history of international food than on recipes themselves -- a major reason why the \\"eighty recipes\\" of the title comprise over 300 pages of text.  For example, the section on \\"Feijoada\\" (Brazilian Black Bean and Mixed Meats Casserole), she begins, \\"Porkier than Alsatian choucroute, beanier than all the cassoulets of Languedoc, the feijoada, with its carnival of trimmings, is a feast of black beans and pig parts, as extravagant as any samba parade.\\"  She continues for two pages to describe its history, variations, social and cultural context, as well as its presentation in restaurants.  Even before she supplies the recipe, she offers another for the cocktail that traditionally accompanies the dish:  caiperinhas, the \\"national cocktail of Brazil.\\"<br /><br />With sections on such varied dishes as potato salad, cr&egrave;me brul&eacute;e, thai red curry, spanakopita, tandoori chicken, blini, and sushi, she explores the context of these dishes with wit and personality.  The recipes themselves are easy to follow, though some, by nature of what they are, are more complicated than others.  Many contain twists on the traditional.  For example, \\"Perfect Hummus\\" contains pine nuts, something I've never seen before in  a hummus recipe.  The rice pudding entry is \\"Saffron Rice Pudding with Pistachios\\", made with basmati rice and coconut milk.  The simply titled \\"Steak\\" chapter's recipe is \\"Pan-seared Rib-Eye with Argentinean Parsley Sauce.\\"  Each chapter contains only one example - but each is a winner.<br /><br />Because this cookbook doesn't include photographs, home cooks might not feel drawn to unfamiliar recipes unless they are confident about their ability to imagine the particular combination of ingredients.  For those who like to read cookbooks as much as they like to cook, Von Bremzen's book is a delight.	2005-04-06
291399:US	52801489	RA4R9FZ272DP8	0671042572	835489451	Jewel	Books	4	36	38	N	N	The Hardships and Triumphs of a Simple Life	Brett Lott's Jewel, despite its fine critical reception, languished in obscurity until Oprah selected it as one of the titles in her book club.  The sudden attention had a twofold impact:  thousands of readers who had never heard of Lott eagerly snapped up copies, and serious readers who were originally more inclined to pick up Lott's work instead shunned it as an \\"Oprah book.\\"  Since a good book is a good book - and Jewel IS good - I recommend that readers give it a closer look before deciding.<br /><br />The novel begins in 1940's Mississippi as Jewel discovers that she is pregnant with \\"one last child.\\"  Her husband Leston reacts to the news with a gentle smile and affection, although her five children don't know quite what to make of it.  Her oldest child James is almost old enough to enlist in the military, and her youngest, Annie, still depends on the comfort of a tattered blanket.  Jewel worries about her children and their impending displacement by the needs of a new baby, but she cannot foresee how much the weight will be.  Cathedral, a black woman who lives \\"out back\\" with her family and who has become a sort of friend (as much as a white woman and a black woman could in 1940's Mississippi), has an inkling.  She prophesies that the coming baby will be Jewel's \\"hardship in life.\\"  When Jewel and Leston face the heartbreak that their beautiful Brenda Kay is not normal, Jewel tailors her entire life towards ensuring that her Down's Syndrome child is given nothing but the best.  Through financial and domestic hardship, Jewel maintains devotion to her \\"baby girl\\" as the world around them changes over the decades.<br /><br />Lott has created a compelling narrative voice in Jewel, a character whose honest, steadfast beliefs take her and her family through difficult times.  Lott writes convincingly from her point-of-view, proving that one does not have to be a woman to understand one.  Although occasionally the prose gets a little dewy, the novel is generally well-written, in a style that evokes the rhythms of the South.  I recommend this book for readers who appreciate quiet, character-driven novels.ly well-written, in a style that evokes the rhythms of the South.  I recommend this book for readers who appreciate quiet, character-driven novels.	2005-04-03
295738:US	52801489	R2YOAZ6Q2Y3YQZ	0060590130	964112133	Jigs & Reels: Stories	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Witty, playful, dark: a collection by the author of Chocolat	In Jig and Reels, author Joanne Harris (most famous for her magical realism novel Chocolat) treats her readers to a selection of twenty-two stories, only one previously published.  Some, such as the playfully defiant \\"Faith and Hope Go Shopping\\" are surprisingly realistic while others embrace Harris's trademark fascination with fairy-tale lore and magic realism.  \\"Gastronomicon\\" unfolds as a young wife decides to experiment with recipes near the end of the ancient cookbook given to her by her mysterious mother-in-law.  \\"Ugly Sister\\" and \\"The Little Mermaid\\" re-tell fairy tales in a more modern, more twisted way.  \\"Class of 1981\\" explores, as Harris says, \\"what happens when the magic runs out . . .\\"  Some stories are little more than conceits - in the final story \\"Eau de Toilette\\" we meet a parfumier of another time who just happens to be someone famous.  This uneven collection remains an exhilarating read, mostly because Harris seems prepared to try anything, to slyly poke fun at expectations and cultural traditions.<br /><br />I wish that Harris had not chosen to preface each story with a short explanation of why she wrote it; it takes the magic out of the illusion.  Once the reader gets into these stories, however, he'll find them witty and much more vibrant than the bland introductions.  Even those stories which cry out for greater development, or a less-than-rushed ending, will charm readers with their originality.	2005-03-30
295993:US	52801489	R27B65LH24YQET	0060786019	57180289	State of Fear	Books	3	6	8	N	N	You are a captive audience . . . unfortunately	This unabridged CD recording of Crichton's bestselling and controversial novel State of Fear has its strengths.  George Wilson reads with an actor's sense of voice, so the listener is attuned to the different nuances of the characters, making distinguishing among them easy. His reading style is smooth and confident, and he moves with ease between dialogue and narrative.<br /><br />But then there's the story:  part exciting thriller, part repetitive lecture.  Peter Evans is a young lawyer working for environmental philanthropist George Morton. Morton has taken a liking to Peter and includes him on fact-finding missions (even though they don't relate to Evans's supposed job, other than being of interest to George) to determine the extent of global warming. Meanwhile, around the world, people are being murdered and cell phones mysterious left behind as unnamed figures gather research and high-tech devices. We meet Jennifer, a lawyer on a team working on a class action suit on global warming, Nick Drake, a lawyer running an influential environmental organization that George is about to endow with millions of dollars, Sarah, George's assistant, and the mysterious Kenner. As Evans gets sucked into a small band working to thwart environmental terrorists, he find his life and those he cares about in danger time after time.<br /><br />The unabridged audio CD of State of Fear has a major drawback that the book doesn't: you can't easily skim past Crichton's heavy-handed monologues.  The repetition gets even more overbearing in audio format.  In Wilson's voice, Evan sounds like a whiner - and he is, though Wilson makes it more apparent with the vocalization.<br /><br />Especially since so many people are talking about this book, you should read it, or, especially if you commute, listen to it on CD.	2005-03-30
296047:US	52801489	R2OYJU0NILJLX2	0142001473	352978422	On Teaching and Writing Fiction	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Lessons from a True Teacher	Wallace Stegner was known during his lifetime as one of the greatest teachers of creative writing.  As the founder of the creative writing graduate program at Stanford, he taught some of today's best known writers.  This slim volume compiles some of his essays and interviews that illuminate his views about what it takes to be a fiction writer - and what it takes to instruct one.  The book, however, is probably more useful to aspiring fiction writers than to teachers.<br /><br />\\"Fiction: A Lens on Life\\" offers Stegner's philosophy about what serious fiction should aim to be.  \\"Creative Writing\\" discusses the use of language, insight, sensory description, layered significance, and point of view - all supported with examples from literature. In  \\"On the Teaching of Creative Writing\\",  the reader is treated to a lively interview conducted at Dartmouth College when Stegner was in residence as a Montgomery Fellow.  \\"To a Young Writer\\" is perhaps the least interesting of the group - a somewhat condescending \\"letter\\" about what fiction writers must face in a hostile world.  The most practical chapter is \\"A Note on Technique\\", four pages of basic rules that a fiction writer would do well to master.<br /><br />While this book cannot be called a true how-to book, the lessons it offers are well worth considering for those who are, or who hope to be, in the writing profession.	2005-03-30
308446:US	52801489	R3A9UOQ4JIJWN	1573229083	539275432	My Dream of You	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Novel About Ireland and Passion	Nuala O'Faoloain's My Dream of You is a coming-of-middle-age tale about Irish women across decades looking for \\"something to love.\\"  While the novel is overtly about passion, it also explores the meaning of coming home and leaving it, of familial ties, of friendship, and, most poignantly, of growing older.  Fiftyish Kathleen de Burca finds herself bereft and alone when her best friend Jimmy dies, and she begins to question the choices she has made. A persistent memory of a former lover and his \\"gift\\" to her of court documents prompt her to quit her job as a travel writer and to research the scandalous affair between a married Englishwoman and her Irish groom, an event that occurred during the Irish Potato Famine.  Kathleen arrives on Irish soil after a long, stubborn absence, and there, she begins to open up, to understand matters of love and passion, to grasp the significance of her childhood, to give meaning to what it means to be Irish.<br /><br />O'Faoloain's prose is lyrical, though sometimes overwrought, and its cadences propel this essentially quiet story.  The historical side of the book, that of the principals in the Talbot Judgment, lends texture to the present day story, although the story itself is not as compelling as it could be, especially when Kathleen recreates it as fiction.  O'Faoloain's unflinching descriptions of the realities of the aging body and its desires give this novel a freshness and an honesty.  The psychology of the protagonist is revealed with equal candor.<br /><br />My Dream of You should appeal largely to women, although all readers who like to read about Ireland will enjoy its textures of history and description.	2005-03-20
322312:US	52801489	R1LW0602VX1U8N	0425158640	575127070	Idoru	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Another Glimpse into the Near-Future	When an author writes a first novel as inventive and as startling as Neuromancer, everything that follows cannot possibly compete, no matter how good it is. So it is with Idoru.  Gibson's speculative thriller follows two main characters:  Colin Laney, a man whose brain has been altered by experimental drugs and who searches the internet for \\"nodal points\\" that explain reality at a level most people can't understand; and Chia Pet McKenzie, a Seattle teenager who belongs to a fan club chapter devoted to the rock group Lo/Rez.  Laney is hired by Rez's security detail in Japan when the rock star announces that he will marry Rei Toei, a virtual reality pop idol.  Rez's people are worried because they believe Rez must be under the influence of someone they haven't yet identified, and they need Laney to uncover the truth.  Meanwhile, Chia also races to Japan, to see if the rumors of Rez's marriage to the non-woman are true.  Subplots involving a vindictive former boss, nanotechnology, and Russian gangsters increase the stakes as both Laney and Chia find themselves skirting danger in both the real and the virtual worlds.  The plot, while thin, is well-paced, and it has the trademark Gibson edginess.<br /><br />Gibson writes well and convincingly, even with lyricism.  He incorporates the specifics of his futuristic world with such confidence that the reader can suspend disbelief for the duration of the novel. The problem is, he has done it better before, and with greater detail, so fans are not likely to forgive him for a simpler world and story.  Still, reading any Gibson book is a treat, especially compared with much of what's out there.  His ability to incorporate near-future technology with an exciting story that fits perfectly inside this fabricated world is astounding even on this smaller scale.<br /><br />I recommend this highly-readable novel for cyperpunk/sci-fi fans, as long as they don't expect this to be another Neuromancer.  The lackluster ending is a disappointment, but the rest is vibrant enough to capture the imaginations of most readers.sappointment, but the rest is vibrant enough to capture the imaginations of most readers.	2005-03-09
323847:US	52801489	R1G0ZKX0MK92IH	0192804782	569473707	Sense and Sensibility (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	31	35	N	N	An Excellent Introduction to Jane Austen's Works	Although SENSE AND SENSIBILITY is not of one Jane Austen's best novels, it is nonetheless a major novel, with the author's then-young talent in full display. Its publication in 1811 marked Austen as a huge literary talent, and its significance reverberates even today as contemporary readers re-discover the works of this author so adept at uncovering the foibles of nineteenth century aristocracy.<br /><br />The title refers to the two eldest Dashwood sisters, Elinor and Marianne, one of whom (Elinor) embraces practicality and restraint while the other (Marianne) gives her whole heart to every endeavor. When the Dashwoods - mother Mrs. Dashwood, Elinor, Marianne, and youngest sister Margaret - are sent, almost impoverished, to a small cottage in Devonshire after the death of their father and the machinations of their brother's wife, they accept their new circumstances with as much cheer as they can muster even though their brother and his wife have taken over the family estate and fortune. Their characters, albeit wildly different in their approaches to life, are impeccably honest and intelligent - and their suitors take notice. Elinor falls in love with the shy, awkward Edward, while Marianne's affections are lavished on the dashing hunter Willoughby. As in all Austen's books, love and marriage don't come easily, as affections aren't always returned and social jockeying sometimes takes precedence to true love. In an interestingly twist, the end of this novel brings into question which sister represents which part of the title.<br /><br />SENSE AND SENSIBILITY only hints at the social skewering Austen would use to such great effect in her later novels, and the humor here is only occasional and slight, as this novel adopts a generally serious tone. Parody is largely limited to the gossipy Mrs. Jenkins, who jumps to wild conclusions about situations she knows nothing about. Though arranged marriage and true love figure prominently in all of Austen's novels, this novel focuses almost exclusivity on the prospects of the two main characters, making it less complex than the novels that followed. Reserved Elinor and exuberant Marianne are expertly drawn, with Edward, Willoughby, and Colonel Brandon (whose lovesick hopes for Marianne are dashed again and again) also engaging creations. Except for the first page or two where the circumstances of the Dashwoods are set up through a series of deaths and relations, possibly causing some confusion, this novel is exceedingly easy to follow for contemporary readers.<br /><br />This novel is an excellent introduction to Jane Austen's works because of its relative simplicity (though readers should not dismiss it as simple) and the use of typical themes and social situations. Book clubs and students might want to explore the influence of money on nineteenth century British society as well as the meaning of the title as it applies to both the sisters and the other characters. It is also interesting to note both the helplessness and the extraordinary power of women in different circumstances.<br /><br />Just because this is not Austen's best novel, I could not take away a single star because it is such a delightful book. I highly recommend this novel for all readers.ocuses almost exclusivity on the prospects of the two main characters, making it less complex than the novels that followed. Reserved Elinor and exuberant Marianne are expertly drawn, with Edward, Willoughby, and Colonel Brandon (whose lovesick hopes for Marianne are dashed again and again) also engaging creations. Except for the first page or two where the circumstances of the Dashwoods are set up through a series of deaths and relations, possibly causing some confusion, this novel is exceedingly easy to follow for contemporary readers.<br /><br />This novel is an excellent introduction to Jane Austen's works because of its relative simplicity (though readers should not dismiss it as simple) and the use of typical themes and social situations. Book clubs and students might want to explore the influence of money on nineteenth century British society as well as the meaning of the title as it applies to both the sisters and the other characters. It is also interesting to note both the helplessness and the extraordinary power of women in different circumstances.<br /><br />Just because this is not Austen's best novel, I could not take away a single star because it is such a delightful book. I highly recommend this novel for all readers.	2005-03-07
325029:US	52801489	R1CO770ZHXN9O3	0679776753	657603039	The Nature of Blood	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Of Race, Cruelty, and Survival	The Nature of Blood is an extraordinary novel that embeds individual stories within the larger history of racial politics in Europe.  Stephen is a doctor and a militant living in Palestine just before the creation of the state of Israel.  A doctor and an indoctrinator, he visits refuge camps where Jews wait to gain entrance into Palestine. The novel then leaps back in time to another camp, though this one more horrific:  the concentration camp where young Eva barely lives, physically weak and emotionally numb.  Here, she meets Gerry, one of the Americans who liberate the camp, and he becomes a small, tenuous lifeline.  Eva's story forms the heart of the story, as we glimpse both happier times and the depth of the psychological toll her short life has taken.  The novel then tumbles even further back in time, to 15th century Venice, where Jews live in walled ghettoes and can be accused of crimes based on rumor.  Here, we meet Othello, who explores Venice as a new resident, acutely aware of his outsider status in Venetian society.  Phillips briefly delves into other lives:  Malka, an Ethiopian Jew who has traveled to Palestine, only to find that her skin color makes her unemployable;  and Servadio, a Jewish banker unjustly accused of sacrificing a Christian boy.<br /><br />These disparate stories are connected through centuries of European mistrust of outsiders, a wariness that periodically gives rise to bursts of hatred and cruelty.  The betrayed can become the betrayers.  While history gives these stories context, the characters give them power.  Eva's unreliable narration evokes the brutality of the Holocaust as powerfully as the details themselves.  Stephen's decision to return to Palestine has significance and poignancy, especially because we realize what happens to those he leaves behind.  The historical aspect lends a sense of predestination as well - an inescapability - because the reader knows that Othello will become irrationally jealous and will kill both Desdemona and himself, that Eva's adolescence will be cruelly interrupted by the Nazis, that Palestine will become Israel, and that racism and the fear of the other will continue indefinitely throughout the future of humanity.<br /><br />The Nature of Blood is not a long novel, but its impact is huge.  I highly recommend it for readers of literary fiction who are likely to find the elegant prose as engaging as the stories themselves.oth Desdemona and himself, that Eva's adolescence will be cruelly interrupted by the Nazis, that Palestine will become Israel, and that racism and the fear of the other will continue indefinitely throughout the future of humanity. <br /> <br />The Nature of Blood is not a long novel, but its impact is huge.  I highly recommend it for readers of literary fiction who are likely to find the elegant prose as engaging as the stories themselves.	2005-03-07
338883:US	52801489	R3LD4TJ82ZP3SM	019280264X	569473707	Mansfield Park (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Not Austen's best, but still wonderful	After having read (and loved) Jane Austen's more famous novels EMMA and PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, I found MANSFIELD PARK a true delight. Fanny Price is taken in by her wealthy aunt and uncle as charity to her more lowly-married mother, and is raised with her cousins with the idea she needs refinement and education to become as good a woman as her lesser social standing will allow. Fanny is nervous and self-effacing, struggling with her new situation until her cousin Edmund makes her feel more at home. Gradually, she feels like a part of the family, although the nagging sense of unworthiness always asserts itself. As cousins marry and suitors appear, as scandals arise and emotions become known, Fanny finds herself in the equivalent of a Victorian soap opera.<br /><br />Fanny is undoubtedly one of Austen's less assertive characters, although she does mature into a woman who knows what she wants and will accept no less. I loved Fanny and her honesty, the little girl who fears the stars in her eyes and still manages to grow up into a respectable - and respected - woman. Her complexities are subtle and understated, making the reader work at times to understand her motivation, although anyone who has felt like an outcast even once, or anyone who respects honesty, will identify with her. In true Austen fashion, the observations are witty, with pointed social analysis and cynicism dressed up in sly humor. Fanny's aunts in particular are skewered, but no one, not even Fanny, is spared.<br /><br />Readers picking up this novel for the sheer delight of it will find it difficult to put down, as its language is accessible and free-flowing. Students and book club members who must pay closer attention to themes and other literary issues may want to consider the role social standing and money play; the evolution of Fanny's character (and whether she is sympathetic); the techniques Austen uses to evoke humor; and the courtship protocol for Victorian England and how the characters both work within, and violate, the social rules.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book for teenagers and adults alike, especially those whose literary tastes run toward the classics.rk within, and violate, the social rules.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book for teenagers and adults alike, especially those whose literary tastes run toward the classics.	2005-02-23
339136:US	52801489	R27WMG2ZL2VS1S	140003471X	615857333	Chronicle of a Death Foretold	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Garcia Marquez At His Most Spare	The English translation (by Gregory Rabassa) of this slim \\"novel\\" by Nobel Laureate Garcia Marquez was first published in 1983.  An excellent example of non-linear storytelling, the story begins with a declaration that Santiago Nasar is about to be murdered.  Despite this beginning, this novella-length book is anything but direct. Garcia Marquez takes us on a circuitous route through the circumstances leading up to, surrounding, and following Nasar's death.  As in most of the author's work, fate, chance, and the foibles of characters determine the outcome.  Irony abounds:  the dishonored bride becomes obsessed with the suitor she once disdained; the brothers who are honor-bound to kill Nasar don't want to carry out the duty, and yet do.  Honor becomes dishonor, and vice versa.  What is most interesting about this work is its spareness, especially in comparison to his earlier One Hundred Years of Solitude.<br /><br />I highly recommend all of Gabriel Garcia Marquez's books.  Although I wouldn't suggest Chronicle of a Death Foretold as an introduction to the author's work, it stands well as its own as a powerful, satiric tale of dishonor and the rituals that enable it.	2005-02-23
339674:US	52801489	R40H81WQDEGBN	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Action Diluted by Lectures	Michael Crichton's most popular fiction derives from speculation about science:  Can prehistoric DNA be cloned?  What happens when man allows foreign germs to reproduce?  In The State of Fear, the question is:  Can man control the environment?  Here, Crichton takes a young lawyer, Peter Evans, and immerses him in the world of NGO's devoted to environmental causes, particularly global warming, and the terrorists conspiring to prove their points.  George Morton, a wealthy environmental philanthropist, has taken a liking to Peter and includes him on fact-finding missions (even though they don't relate to Evans's supposed job, other than being of interest to George.)  Meanwhile, around the world, people are being murdered and cell phone mysterious left behind as unnamed figures gather research and high-tech devices.  We meet Jennifer, a lawyer on a team working on a class action suit on global warming, Nick Drake, a lawyer running an influential environmental organization that George is about to endow with millions of dollars, Sarah, George's assistant, and the mysterious Kenner.  As Evans gets sucked into a small band working to thwart the environmental terrorists, he find his life and those he cares about in danger time after time.<br /><br />Crichton really could have used some stringent editing.  Evans is perhaps the dumbest Crichton character yet; despite being swayed numerous times that to question the facts of global warming, he still answers (again, time after time) when asked if global warming is really occurring, \\"Everybody knows that.\\"  The information conveyed about the environment is repetitive and condescending.  Readers will find themselves scanning these tedious passages to get to the action.  The lack of editing also shows up in details:  a Jeep's tire is blown out after taking a fifth (or so) lightning strike, and yet pages later Evans is racing down the highway in it with another car in pursuit.<br /><br />The action sequences will keep readers flipping pages, as preposterous as some scenes are, simply because Crichton excels at scene set-up and suspense.  To the novel's detriment, however, Crichton once again seems to have forgotten the basic truth of storytelling:  dramatize your themes.  Instead, we are pounded on the head, page after page, with dogmatic dialogue about how the science doesn't support global warming.  Perhaps the funniest line in the book occurs in the author's afterward, when he writes, \\"A novel such as State of Fear, in which so many divergent views are expressed, may lead the reader to wonder where, exactly, the author stands on these issues.\\"  Ha!<br /><br />Crichton fans will naturally want to read State of Fear - and they should.  Casual readers of his work would be better served seeking out a thriller by a different author.flipping pages, as preposterous as some scenes are, simply because Crichton excels at scene set-up and suspense.  To the novel's detriment, however, Crichton once again seems to have forgotten the basic truth of storytelling:  dramatize your themes.  Instead, we are pounded on the head, page after page, with dogmatic dialogue about how the science doesn't support global warming.  Perhaps the funniest line in the book occurs in the author's afterward, when he writes, \\"A novel such as State of Fear, in which so many divergent views are expressed, may lead the reader to wonder where, exactly, the author stands on these issues.\\"  Ha!   <br /> <br />Crichton fans will naturally want to read State of Fear - and they should.  Casual readers of his work would be better served seeking out a thriller by a different author.	2005-02-23
340034:US	52801489	R244FW6PI3Z4CV	1559707348	943315985	The Last Song of Dusk: A Novel	Books	4	7	10	N	N	"Who ... could you entrust with the safety of your heart?"	The Last Song of Dusk marks the debut of yet another imaginative Indian author who writes in hyperbole and lush, sweeping strokes.  Beautiful, impish Arunradha, with a voice to which \\"even the moon listens\\" marries the handsome doctor Vardhmaan, whose stories win her heart. The two become best friends and lovers, with such intimacy that it seems as though nothing can come between them.  Even Vardhmaan's evil stepmother Divi-bai cannot drive them apart.  But when their beloved and charmed son Mohan is sucked from his room into a tree, then dropped, Divi-bai finds their weakness, and all changes between them.  Eventually, they move to an malevolent house with Arunradha's wild teenage cousin Nandina, who sets about to make her mark on Bombay society and the world.  The three struggle to find the answer to the question, \\"Is love enough?\\"<br /><br />Reminiscent in parts of the work of Chitra Divakaruni, Arundhati Roy, and Isabelle Allende, The Last Song of Dusk explores the meaning of love in an occasionally magical world where houses have intentions and women mate with panthers.  The novel falters when it brings in historical figures such as Gandhi since the novel's strength lies in the smaller, more believable moments.  The language, although often seductive, can be overblown, but Shanghvi's passion for storytelling and his characters resonates in every sentence.  Even when he fails, he picks up the narrative and continues toward the resolution with authority.<br /><br />Recommended for a general readership, particularly for those who enjoyed The God of Small Things (Roy) and The House of Spirits (Allende.)  While The Last Song of Dusk doesn't approach the success of either, it occupies a spot in the same literary tradition.	2005-02-23
347939:US	52801489	R374HNBSMNE97F	0618374086	719130837	The Gourmet Cookbook: More than 1000 recipes	Books	4	20	22	N	N	A Massive Compilation from Gourmet Magazine	This immense, nearly 1000 page cookbook should be included in every serious cook's collection.  Compiled from Gourmet Magazine over the past six decades, these recipes range from under-one-hour meals to the all-day endeavors, from classic French to fusion,  vegetarian meals to hearty meat stews.  All recipes list the \\"active\\" and cooking times, which I've found generally accurate, as well as the serving sizes.  For those learning how to make the transition from the standard Joy of Cooking fare to gourmet, this book not only has a section in the back on general cooking tips and techniques, but it has stand-alone pages explaining the specific processes for individual recipes.  Scattered throughout are informational pages, listing, for example, the names and attributes of hot peppers, wild mushrooms, and all the gourmet potatoes found in the best supermarkets.<br /><br />Each recipe goes for taste - and a twist.  For example, \\"Macaroni and Cheese\\" uses Dijon mustard and Japanese breadcrumbs, and a mashed potato recipe calls for buttermilk and caramelized shallots.  Most cooks will buy this for the less traditional recipes, such as \\"Malaysian Style Curry,\\" \\"Butternut Squash, Sage, and Goat Cheese Ravioli,\\"  and \\"Fresh Fig, Mascarpone, and Pesto Torte,\\" but more familiar dishes abound in what seems like an attempt to rival classic cookbooks.  As with the magazine itself, the desserts recipes are good but not extraordinary, although one of my favorite Gourmet cookie recipes, \\"Double Chocolate Walnut Biscotti\\" is here as are a surprising solid number of cakes, pies, cookies, and pastries, including a relatively easy (and delicious) Baklava.<br /><br />Unfortunately, The Gourmet Cookbook does not contain photographs or any other representation of the finished dishes; the only illustrations are line drawings on techniques and ingredients.  I can understand why they were left out - this book simply could not be any bigger, nor would it have been affordable with color plates - but without them, this doesn't seem closely linked to the style of the magazine.<br /><br />With this book, anyone who can read and follow directions can become a gourmet cook.em, this doesn't seem closely linked to the style of the magazine.      With this book, anyone who can read and follow directions can become a gourmet cook.	2005-02-16
354346:US	52801489	R2FQ3BROIWJESJ	0312022700	616760557	Raising Arizona (ST MARTIN'S ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY SERIES)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Just as Funny on the Page!	This screenplay by Joel and Ethan Coen reminded me of how much I liked the film shot from it.  Perennial criminal Hi returns to prison again and again for robbing convenience stores but Edwinna, the police officer who takes his mug shots, softens his heart.  He decides to make a new life of it by marrying her.  They buy a trailer in Arizona, set up housekeeping, and try the next logical step:  to start a family.  Edwinna, though, learns that she cannot conceive and that's where the screenplay takes a typical Coen  brother leap into absurdity.  Ed and Hi decide to become parents by kidnapping one of a set of quintuplets since \\"it was unfair that some have so many while others should have so few.\\"  What ensures is pure madcap, inventive, hilarious comedy with a hint of the bittersweet.<br /><br />The screenplay evokes the film with such clarity and excellent visual storytelling that you'll feel as though you're watching it.  While Holly Hunter and Nicholas Cage, who played Ed and Hi, excel at portraying quirky characters, this script makes it clear that they had a fantastic script to work with and were not the sole reasons for its success.  This paperback contains a few black-and-white still shots of the film (certainly not worth buying the screenplay for), the full credits for the film, and a short interview/exchange between the Coen brothers and the filmmakers for Evil Dead II: Dead by Dawn, a movie that was released during the same season.	2005-02-10
360837:US	52801489	R3U688LMSGFT66	0743463935	903465736	Cuba Strait: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Thriller Set in the Florida Keys	Carsten Stroud's thriller begins with enough mystery, jeopardy, and excitement to hook the reader until the end.  A man named Charles Green readies himself to pilot a small aircraft from Cuba by destroying all his belongings except for a picture of him with his family.  In the midst of a storm, the plane, piloted by Green and carrying a close-mouthed passenger, goes down off the Florida Keys where Rick Broca, former State Trooper and now Hollywood consultant, spots them.  In the absence of nearby Coast Guard boats, he is sent to rescue any survivors.  What follows is a series of by-the-throat scenes as Broca finds himself enmeshed with a violent scheme that involves Cuban nationals, the FBI and NSA, a renegade American - with two of his friends used as pawns from a Cuban jail, all with repercussions pointing toward a war between the United States and Cuba<br /><br />Much of this novel is preposterous, but you won't care because the fantasy of it is so tightly wound, scene after scene.  Stroud's writing is not particularly good, but his descriptions of graphic violence will make you feel every knife twist.  Rick Broca is a good no-nonsense, resourceful protagonist - the kind of man who can think on his feet even when his life is in danger.  Girlfriend Zeffi is two-dimensional but somewhat fun; there's a bar scene near the end when she really comes alive.  The real flaw of this thriller is the denouement, which involves several pages of explanations that make it seem as though the author planned a more complicated novel but ran out of time to develop it.  Getting to those pages, however, is suspenseful fun.	2005-02-05
368762:US	52801489	R33P69DRXB9S78	0151008124	19829206	On Literature	Books	4	42	44	N	N	A Semiotics Professor on Various Aspects of Literature	This collection of essays and lectures by Umberto Eco and translated by Martin McLaughlin contains Eco's reflections on several aspects of literature, from the (more or less) tangible influence of Borges on the author's own writing to different approaches to literary criticism to how he himself came to write his novels.  Though the essays themselves range in subject matter, all contain the underlying currents of Eco's academic forte, semiotics, that difficult-to-define discipline that drives the author's intellect.<br /><br />The eighteen essays/lectures concentrate on specific authors and works (\\"A Reading of the Paradiso\\", \\"Wilde: Paradox and Aphorism\\") as well as on more general topics (\\"On Symbolism\\", \\"Intertextual Irony and Levels of Reading\\").  As you might gather from the titles, this book is not light reading and reflects not only the density of Eco's prose but also of his ideas.  Some essays succeed better than others.  \\"Borges and My Anxiety of Influence\\" is a fascinating, almost conversational glimpse into the workings of Eco's literary mind while his more direct \\"How I Write\\" is deadened by self-analysis.  \\"The Power of Falsehood\\", perhaps more than any of these essays, exposes the obsessions that gave rise to The Name of the Rose, Foucault's Pendulum, and Baudolino; it delves into the marriage of history and false ideas.  Unfortunately, the opening piece, \\"On Some Functions of Literature,\\" seems almost elemental and not deep enough for someone of Eco's academic caliber.  Readers of his novels will recognize in many of these essays the driving force behind the fiction.  Intellectuals and literary critics especially will want to make their slow, careful way through much of what Eco has to say.<br /><br />Although I don't agree with some of Eco's premises, I still found this book intriguing, both for its ideas and the way they are presented.  Eco knows his material, and his passion for the subject matter can be infectious.  Recommended for serious students of literature and semiotics, but not for the casual reader.and semiotics, but not for the casual reader.	2005-01-29
372348:US	52801489	R3CLSL97SRNUCQ	0375703861	363806782	White Teeth: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	5 stars for the beginning, 3 stars for the rest	The beginning of Zadie Smith's debut novel White Teeth is marked by an extraordinary voice:  confident, affectionate, satiric, witty.  Archibald Jones attempts to kill himself in a car outside a Muslim butchery while pigeons fleeing from the murderous butcher leave streaks of purple excrement across his windshield.  Archie's life is spared by the irate butcher because \\". . .dying's no easy trick.  And suicide can't be put on a list of Things to Do in between cleaning the grill pan and leveling the sofa leg with a brick.\\"  This irreverent, comic beginning launches the novel into Archie's life and into that of his best friend Samad Iqbal.  Archie, given a new chance at life, marries the much younger Clara, the daughter of a Jamaican Jehovah Witness mother and a passive, emotionally absent father, while Samad, who is always striving to be a good Muslim, enters into an arranged marriage with Alsana, a woman who was not even born while he fought alongside Archie during World War II.  Their children - Irie Jones and the twins Millat and Magrid Iqbal - struggle to find their niche in their overwhelming white British surroundings.  If Smith had left her novel at that, at exploring the cultural rifts that divide the families and their cultures, this book would have succeeded admirably; however, the author departs from this course to explore a world that contains a snobbishly intellectual English family, genetic engineering, radical Islam, and the end of the world as predicted by the Jehovah Witnesses.  While these separate plots often serve as metaphors for the struggle to assimilate, they simply don't do enough to engage the reader.  The result is a tedious, wholly unfunny second half.  Characterizations that were done so well in the beginning become lost in the noise of the rest, making it difficult to care about what happens to Smith's inventions.  Plot turns begin to feel forced, and reactions, unnatural.  Most disappointingly, the witty voice of the narrator fades into the background, and is never as strong as it is in the first hundred pages.<br /><br />The novel owes much to the literary tradition of Victorians such as Dickens and Thackeray, who wrote sweeping novels with comic and/or biting wit.  Smith's range is impressive for a first-time novelist, but her skills and literary instincts are not yet honed enough to carry off the sprawl of such a complex concept.  Despite this, her descriptions and characterizations are first-rate, even if they get lost among the rest, and her turns of prose can be astonishing.<br /><br />This is one of those rare instances when I find it difficult to rate a book using the five star system.  White Teeth is an ambitious, unconventional novel that ultimately tries to be too much.  Readers who want to keep up on literary trends and celebrities will want to read this, since there is much to admire in Smith's work.the background, and is never as strong as it is in the first hundred pages. <br /> <br />The novel owes much to the literary tradition of Victorians such as Dickens and Thackeray, who wrote sweeping novels with comic and/or biting wit.  Smith's range is impressive for a first-time novelist, but her skills and literary instincts are not yet honed enough to carry off the sprawl of such a complex concept.  Despite this, her descriptions and characterizations are first-rate, even if they get lost among the rest, and her turns of prose can be astonishing. <br /> <br />This is one of those rare instances when I find it difficult to rate a book using the five star system.  White Teeth is an ambitious, unconventional novel that ultimately tries to be too much.  Readers who want to keep up on literary trends and celebrities will want to read this, since there is much to admire in Smith's work.	2005-01-26
386664:US	52801489	R1LVX6LQEB1PAG	0151011168	692955226	The Year of Past Things	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A Disappointing Ghost Story Set in New Orleans	This New Orleans ghost story by M. A. Harper never achieves the promise of its title and premise - not even of its setting.  Phil Randazzo, the chef-owner of one of New Orleans premier restaurants, is newly married to Michelle, the widow of a well-known jazz musician, A.P. Savoie, who died three years before in a car accident.  Phil's two stepchildren, teenager Cam and much younger Nicole, have largely accepted him as their new father even though they remain haunted by their family tragedy.  The haunting goes from psychological to real when Michelle starts dreaming vividly of Savoie and Phil encounters a young boy in a football jersey on the staircase of their house.  Disturbing things, perhaps connected to a Zippo lighter, start happening in the house as Savoie gains strength.  The presence of Savoie threatens to tear apart Phil and Michelle's marriage, and removing the ghost becomes critical to their survival.<br /><br />Unfortunately, Harper's prose is clunky despite the lyricism of the title, and her storytelling is equally awkward.  Except for Savoie himself, the characterizations never click and remain one breath away from life.  Sadly, Harper never seems to give herself up fully to her story, although when she does, she shows real promise.  The scene where Phil and Michelle see a psychic surprisingly is one of the best in the novel, primarily because of its fresh take on psychics and because the events unfold with a naturalness not found elsewhere.  There are a few scary scenes, especially near the end, that keep the reader hooked. Harper has some good, strong moments, but they fail to carry the novel.<br /><br />I really wanted to like this book; however, with its bland, awkward language and storytelling, The Year of Things Past is a disappointment.	2005-01-15
416823:US	52801489	R31S3V965HJHLN	0131836668	628522623	Designs for American Gardens	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Personal Look at Landscape Design	Alice Recknagel Ireys provides a personalized glimpse into the art of designing gardens.  Peppered with descriptions of the gardens of friends and acquaintances, she describes how each tackled the problems of a particular lot.  She provides color photographic shots from different angles, both close-up and from a distance.  The garden schematic layout is also provided for each in a colored drawing, complete with the names of the specific plantings used. Lest you feel that Ireys's book is too specific, the photographs and descriptions act as inspiration.  The combinations of plantings, all listed with the cultivars, show these specimens in their mature stages and thus provide a good guide for planning one's own garden.<br /><br />The book includes multiple examples on one-half acre, one to two acre, three to five acre, five to ten acre, and more than ten acre lots.  The final section describes some of Ivreys's favorite plantings in the categories of trees, shade-loving shrubs, and flowers arranged by their month-by-month bloom times.<br /><br />This design book is not comprehensive enough to act alone as a guide if you are deciding your own landscaping; however, it makes a fantastic supplement.  I don't recommend this book if you live in planting zones further south than Virginia, or in climates that differ greatly from the Mid-Atlantic States and southern New England.	2004-12-21
417141:US	52801489	R1Y9U52RFCTNO1	1566194059	811631958	Treasury of Christmas Carols	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Good Compilation of Christmas Carols	This \\"treasury\\" of forty-six Christmas carols (forty-five, if you don't count Auld Lang Syne) contains all the classic and beloved songs along with several lesser known carols.  Each carol is preceded by a brief, written introduction to some aspect of the song.  For example, \\"Here We Come A-Wassailing\\" explains the derivation of \\"wassail\\" as well as its meaning in context of Christmas.  \\"O Holy Night\\" gives a two-sentence summary of the composer's (Adolphe Adam) career.<br /><br />The typeface of the words is a little too small and might be a challenge for those on the verge of needing reading glasses, but the scores themselves should be fine for all but the worst eyes.  The spiral bindings makes it easy for the book to open flat in one's hand or on a music stand.<br /><br />If you'd like a compilation of Christmas carols, you should consider this book as an option.	2004-12-21
419167:US	52801489	R1EDAIZFIIM9N8	0060977507	222770950	The Beet Queen: A Novel	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Many Voices, Many Stories - One Powerful Novel	Louise Erdrich once said that her novels fell \\"together like a quilt, a crazy quilt,\\", and The Beet Queen is no exception. The author has constructed a powerful novel out of many voices and individual stories.  The novel begins in 1932, with young Mary and Karl Adare getting off a train in Argus, North Dakota by themselves.  A moment of fear sends Karl running back to the train, and Mary in the other direction, towards her aunt's house. This division between them sends them on different paths.  Mary grows up as the despised cousin of lovely Sita, the foster daughter of Pete and Fritzie who own a butcher shop.  Karl is eventually sent back to Minnesota to grow up in a Catholic children's home.  The people who know them - Sita, Celestine, the Chamber of Commerce president Wallace Pfef, and finally Dot, the Beet Queen of the title - add their voices to weave a story that goes beyond Karl and Mary to include the entire town of Argus. Spanning forty years, the novel encompasses changes not only within the characters but in the town and the times in general.<br /><br />Erdrich's characterizations are complex and heartfelt, especially since the multiple points-of-view allow us to see the characters from both inside and out. When characters describe the same incident from different perspectives, we get a deep understanding of what is at stake for each.<br /><br />The Beet Queen is one of Erdrich's finest novels.  Fans of Erdrich's will recognize some of the characters that appeared in the earlier Love Medicine and in her later books, but you don't need to be familiar with the author's work to become engrossed in this one.  Highly recommended.	2004-12-19
419962:US	52801489	RU3BIL290IAYO	0060590254	180578126	The Stupidest Angel: A Heartwarming Tale of Christmas Terror	Books	4	9	10	N	N	For Twisted Minds	Perhaps because I hadn't read any of Christopher Moore's work, I started out this slim novel with the impression that the author was trying too hard.  Then, about sixty pages in, I started to laugh.  And laugh.  As the story got more and more outrageous, I began to fully appreciate the zany wit of this popular author.<br /><br />In Pine Grove, California, the residents are preparing for Christmas, particularly for a Lonesome Christmas held in the chapel for those who would rather not be at home on Christmas Eve.  But when little Josh sees Santa get whacked with a shovel, and  a stranger with incandescent blonde hair shows up asking for children, things start to go awry.  Throw in a pot-smoking, desperately in love constable, a DEA pilot with a pet fruit bat, the insane Outland Warrior Babe, speaking corpses, and a cast of equally off-kilter, hilariously drawn characters, and you've got this novel.  You'll never again hear the store name IKEA without cracking up.<br /><br />I understand that many of these characters are drawn from Moore's other works, but I was not at a disadvantage by not having read his earlier fiction.  The book stands on its own as a zany, off-color, off-center take on the Christmas spirit that can be read at any time of the year.	2004-12-18
437196:US	52801489	R1ZCH4FSZ0JDX6	0452279070	956761338	Ragtime	Books	5	166	170	N	N	A Riff on America at the Turn of the 20th Century	Even before the Broadway musical and the film, Ragtime was E.L. Doctorow's best known work, a celebrated novel that combines the syncopation of ragtime and the literary sensibilities of a writer intrigued by history as literary device.  Set primarily in Westchester County's New Rochelle but also in New York City and, briefly, Massachusetts, the novel follows the stories of real and fictional characters as they move from innocence to disillusionment, from peace time to the beginnings of racial conflict and World War I.<br /><br />Because the novel contains so many stories, some as short as a few pages (in the case of Freud) and some woven throughout the entire novel, describing the plot of the book is a challenge.  The author primarily follows the lives of a New Rochelle family (Father, Mother, Younger Brother, and the Little Boy) as they navigate changing times.  Father accompanies Peary on his exploration to the North Pole. Mother takes in a young black woman, Sarah, and her newborn, an impulsive act which leads to the introduction of ragtime pianist Coalhouse Walker and his simple demands which escalate into violence.  Younger Brother becomes infatuated with the celebrated beauty Evelyn Nesbit, which in turn leads to his association with anarchist Emma Goldman.  Harry Houdini's car breaks down in front of their house, and the novel enters his story as well. The family acts as a touchstone for the disparate stories of a generation.  Meanwhile, the story of a counterpart family - Mameh, Tateh, and the Little Girl - unfolds in the ghetto, where the Jewish immigrant family struggles for survival.  Unbeknownst to both families, their stories are linked by those of the others.<br /><br />In syncopated prose that dissipates partway through the novel as the short age of ragtime gives way to jazz, Doctorow manages to infuse irony in short, seemingly unrelated sentences: \\"Everyone wore white in the summer.  Tennis racquets were hefty and the racquet faces elliptical.  There was a lot of sexual fainting.  There were no Negroes.\\"  Since the novel is about the loss of the naivet&eacute; that gives birth to such generalizations, this kind of set-up allows for the numerous tales that shoot off in different directions.<br /><br />The complicated novel is not demanding to read, although the huge cast of characters and the emphasis on history makes emotional identification with the characters difficult.  If readers look at this novel as an Impressionistic look at life at the beginning of the 20th century, they will find more satisfaction than if they regard it as the story of Little Boy's family.  The coherence of this novel comes from the brackets of an era and not from a tidy relation among the plots.  I highly recommend this influential novel for serious readers and students of literature.exual fainting.  There were no Negroes.\\"  Since the novel is about the loss of the naivet that gives birth to such generalizations, this kind of set-up allows for the numerous tales that shoot off in different directions.      The complicated novel is not demanding to read, although the huge cast of characters and the emphasis on history makes emotional identification with the characters difficult.  If readers look at this novel as an Impressionistic look at life at the beginning of the 20th century, they will find more satisfaction than if they regard it as the story of Little Boy's family.  The coherence of this novel comes from the brackets of an era and not from a tidy relation among the plots.  I highly recommend this influential novel for serious readers and students of literature.	2004-12-02
441337:US	52801489	R12MQVUXMKZJ5J	1400031311	239479552	The O. Henry Prize Stories 2003 (Pen / O. Henry Prize Stories)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Solid Anthology	I always look forward to the annual release of this short fiction series.  Unlike some of the other anthologies, The O. Henry Prize is judged by a panel of well-known literary writers.  In the case of this 2003 edition, David Guterson (Snow Falling on Cedars), Diane Johnson (Le Divorce), and Jennifer Egan (Look At Me) join series editor Laura Furman to compile these twenty noteworthy stories.  Two out of the three jurors selected Denis Johnson's novella-length \\"Train Dreams\\" as the top story, while the third adored A.S. Byatt's \\"The Thing of the Forest.\\"  These two stories sandwich the other eighteen, although not all readers will be in agreement with the jurors as to which is the best.  Anthony Doerr's \\"The Shell Collector\\" is a stunning foray into shellfish toxins and the blind man who finds both miracle and curse in them.  \\"Burn Your Maps\\" by Robyn Joy Leff is a tender tribute to the oddity of childhood and family life.  \\"Three Days. A Month. More.\\" by Douglas Light shows childhood loss through repetition and the confusion of time passing.  Alice Munro's \\"Fathers\\" explores the strange, influential relationships between fathers and daughters, and the effect they have on the narrator.  Most of the stories have a traditional bent, although others, such as Ann Harleman's \\"Meanwhile,\\" employ inventive storytelling techniques.  If these stories share anything, it's their off-kilter yet complete worlds, where the story is found in oddity and the underlying redemption in emotional engagement.<br /><br />Readers will find themselves returning to reread some stories and shrugging off others as \\"merely\\" good.  All in all, this is an excellent sampling of some of the best short fiction being published today.	2004-11-29
447426:US	52801489	R1IXRY3FCDODJQ	0151008051	948084263	Death in Danzig	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The Anatomy of a Distressed City	Stefan Chwin, an acclaimed Polish writer throughout Europe whose work has not previously been translated into English, is a novelist with a microscopic eye.  Every scene, every setting is finely detailed with beautifully precise language (translated by Philip Boehm).  Death in Danzig begins during the waning days of World War II, as the Russians are approaching the Polish city which will later be known as Gdansk and as Hanneman, a German professor of anatomy, uncovers the day's cadaver to discover the body of his lover.  This metaphor, of an illicit lover prepared to be dissected by strangers, serves as an apt metaphor for this besieged city, both during and after the war.<br /><br />Chwin follows the lives of Hanneman, his new neighbors (and the narrator) who claim the apartment above him after the war, and a mysterious young woman named Hanka who is rumored to have endured unspeakable horrors during the war.  For most of the novel, the conflict is slight - more of  a general, internal uneasiness than anything sharply defined - with occasional flashes of intensity, such as when Hanneman is questioned by the Communist authorities about a letter he receives.  Chwin favors description over scenic development, often diverting the narrative momentum to divulge a catalogue of what is in the room, but readers who delight in turns of phrase will be charmed with the exactitude of the author's imagination.  The city of Danzig/Gdansk is as much a character as its  human counterparts. The final pages of this otherwise quiet novel are breathtaking, both in danger and in language.<br /><br />Death in Danzig is a difficult read because of the relatively static plot and the interior, detailed nature of the prose; however, dedicated readers of literary and international fiction will appreciate Chwin's skill in evoking a city and its inhabitants as they struggle to maintain normalcy.	2004-11-23
459676:US	52801489	RXEI9GUP5LJX2	0140187537	999720718	The Winter of Our Discontent (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	335	350	N	N	This novel brought me back to Steinbeck	After reading Of Mice and Men, The Red Pony, and The Pearl in high school, I was not an admirer of Steinbeck, but when I picked up The Winter of Our Discontent as an adult, I was awed by the author I had once shunned.  Steinbeck's keen sense of character and a mastery of the language carries this novel from first page to last.  The story revolves around Ethan Hawley, a descendent of proud New England stock whose life seems betrayed by circumstances as he struggles to provide for his family.  His wife Mary urges him to be more ambitious, and his restless teenage children exhibit signs of being morally corrupt.  When Ethan decides that his ethics no longer matter in this demanding world, he enters his own compounding crisis.<br /><br />In perfectly rendered language, Steinbeck explores the themes of two Americas - the old Puritanical and morally staid one, and the one where every man fights for himself.  The corruption in New Baytown is rampant.  Issues about privilege and entitlement, family values, skewed priorities, flagging morality, and work ethics simmer underneath.  Steinbeck's depiction of Ethan and Mary's marriage is witty, biting, and affectionate, demonstrating both his humor and his talent for dissecting domestic issues as well as the grander, social ones.<br /><br />A fine novel by a recently underappreciated author, The Winter of Our Discontent is worth every minute spent with it.	2004-11-11
465998:US	52801489	R2B00675K71WDG	0345464710	904659248	The Murder Artist: A Thriller	Books	5	16	19	N	N	A first-rate thriller	In this masterful thriller by John Case (a husband and wife team), reporter Alex Callahan loses his energetic twin sons at a Renaissance fair in Maryland: one moment they are petting a whippet with a Shakespearean ruff around his neck, and the next they have vanished.  The police have few leads, and the lead investigator is reassigned to a homeland security force.  Alex, who cannot accept that he'll never see his beloved sons again, sets out on a trail that leads to a series of revelations, each one more chilling than the last.  Helped along the way by advice from police detectives, private investigators, lawyers, and his own gut instincts, Alex fights his way toward the truth.  The plot assembles the history of magic, voodoo practice, and the gruesome tastes of a psychopath into a non-stop thriller that will have most readers willingly accepting their bloodshot eyes as they read late into the night.<br /><br />Remarkably, in all this fast-paced rush of a story, the authors never skimp on characterization and detail.  From Alex's estranged wife Liz to the albino private investigator in New Orleans to the grocery clerk who gives Alex his final break, the characters are memorable and well-drawn; many, such as the one-lipped voodoo \\"houngan\\", are unforgettable.  The settings are equally skillful, with the seedy underside of Las Vegas glitz contrasting with the more down-home grime of the swamps outside New Orleans.  Even the Renaissance Faire, where the twins vanish, is brought to life with such convincing detail that it remains vivid even 400 pages later. The abrupt ending might leave some readers dissatisfied, but it thankfully skirts the maudlin.<br /><br />Readers of thrillers should not pass up this breathlessly suspenseful novel.  Well-written, intelligent, and fast-paced, The Murder Artist deserves a spot among the best of the genre.	2004-11-05
468705:US	52801489	R2DFTH9WSG7NMQ	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	5	34	45	N	Y	A Spectacular Novel about Loyalty and Love	This exceptional debut novel by Khaled Hosseini, first published in 2003, lays bare the psychic wounds of an Afghani and his war-ravaged country.  Amir grows up as the only son of a wealthy liberal in Kabul where life is rich and full of possibilities prior to the Soviet invasion.  Amir's mother has died in childbirth, and his father Baba, so generous to those around him, is disappointed in the bookish, unathletic child he must raise.  Amir's playmate Hassan, a low-birth Hazara servant who prepares him breakfast and irons his clothes and who loves more than anything to hear the stories Amir reads to him, seems to have more of Baba's respect than Amir can ever hope for.  Baba's overt love for Hassan and his disdain for his own son drive Amir to taunt and abandon Hassan, even though he loves him more deeply than even he himself knows.  Although Hassan will do anything for him, Amir, burdened by jealousy and fear, cannot come to his friend's aid when most needed, not even on the most glorious day of their childhood when together they claim the kite-fighting title.  Amir's choices change their lives in ways that cannot be undone.  When  as a middle-aged man Amir is asked to return to Taliban-controlled Afghanistan to redeem himself, what follows is a harrowing journey, both physically and psychologically.<br /><br />Through well-timed plot twists and revelations, Hosseini maintains a riveting pace that dares the reader to leave his story.  Eventually he strains credulity by introducing yet another coincidence, yet another act of violence that seem more designed for narrative neatness than for development.  (Readers will see a couple of them coming pages in advance.)  Despite this flaw of storytelling exuberance, this impact of this novel is tremendous.  Its evocation of Afghanistan is both loving and disappointed, much the way Baba treats Amir.<br /><br />As tender as it is brutal, The Kite Runner manages to evoke a changing country and its victims within the context of an intimate story about friendship and love.  I highly recommend this novel for both a general and literary readership, particularly for those who seek to be engaged with issues larger than the personal.story about friendship and love.  I highly recommend this novel for both a general and literary readership, particularly for those who seek to be engaged with issues larger than the personal.	2004-11-03
472678:US	52801489	RT4PWX4JOB7D2	0688105327	713319840	Patricia Wells' Trattoria	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Hearty and simple Italian fare	For anyone who has traveled to Italy (or who dreams of it), this cookbook brings the simple yet effective trattoria fare into the kitchen.  As Wells states in her preface, \\"Homey, unpretentious, honest, and homemade, that's the heart and soul of Italian trattoria cooking.\\"  The recipes she includes embrace this philosophy, and while some recipes are slightly more complicated than others, most are straightforward and easy to prepare.<br /><br />She includes robust fare such as \\"White Bean Salad with Fresh Sage and Thyme\\", \\"Pan-fried Potatoes with Black Olives,\\" and \\"Cubed Pork with Garlic, Spinach, and Spice Chick Peas\\" along with more exotic \\"Roasted Yellow Pepper Soup,\\" \\"Saffron Butterflies\\", and \\"Individual Gorgonzola Souffl&eacute;s\\"  She provides recipes for dishes more familiar to Americans as well, such as handmade pizza, penne with vodka, and macaroons.  Her \\"Speedy Lasagna\\" is a boon to the harried weekday cook.  The skimpiest section covers fish courses, with only seven recipes.<br /><br />None of the recipes I've tried have failed, although I like some better than others.  All recipes are preceded by a descriptive passage of Wells's emotional connection to the dish, and some include a quote from a famous person.  Small boxes with such subjects as \\"Eating Risotto\\" highlight local customs pertaining to the dish.  The only thing this cookbook lacks is extensive color plates; the few it includes are often jammed with several dishes.  At first I thought this was a mistake, but now I realize homey trattoria food does not love the camera.  Most of these dishes won't earn high marks for presentation, but they will for taste.	2004-10-30
477985:US	52801489	ROYV9DSDGMECV	0007164890	355154473	The Secret Goldfish: Stories	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Terrific Collection!	This inventive collection of stories revolves around the off-kilter - either something happens that cannot be explained or the characters are bewildered about how they came to be where they are.  In the title story, a goldfish survives for nine years despite the odds in a murky, nearly airless tank while a marriage disintegrates.  \\"Blown From the Bridge\\" tells of the last moments a young man shares with his lover before she and her car are blown off the Mackinac bridge, her fate sealed by a mysterious dedication to her father.  The main character of \\"Lightning Man\\" cannot escape a lifetime of lightning strikes, but he continues anyway through his ruined and neurologically-fried life.  \\"It Counts as Seeing\\" recounts the same incident of a blind man falling down the steps of a bank from multiple points-of-view so that this straightforward incident ends up being anything but.<br /><br />The lyricism in Means's style elevates these seemingly simple stories to a more complex level,  as the oddity of life is grounded in the beautiful language of the specific.  In most of these stories, Means plays with form.  The above mentioned story about the blind man challenges the use of first-person as reliable narrator.  \\"Michigan Death Trip\\" eschews traditional narrative development by linking its vignettes not through character or plot, but through the end results.  In some cases, the author fails, as in \\"The Nest\\" when a poignant story is interrupted by a  break in form, but mostly he succeeds brilliantly.<br /><br />These vibrant stories have the unexpected emotional impact of life itself.  I highly recommend this collection to avid readers of short fiction.	2004-10-25
479569:US	52801489	R3AMMX6KQD9TIQ	156025632X	930064964	Dillinger in Hollywood: New and Selected Short Stories (Nation Books)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Unpretentious Stories by the Noted Screenwriter	John Sayles, better known as a screenwriter and filmmaker, has been quietly publishing short stories since the 1980's.  In this collection, he has compiled ten stories written over the span of twenty-four years, the oldest of which lends its title to the book.  Some of these stories focus on the lesser known side of the film industry, the world of bit actors and technical crews, while others explore such varied experiences as women whose men are incarcerated and midwives.  Most of his stories are leisurely, almost novelistic in their unfolding, and a few approach the novella length.  Sayles seems in no hurry to finish his tales, and will introduce key characters ten pages into them.  The stories he treats this way have no urgency, no sharp spikes of conflict, and yet they are engrossing because of Sayles's superb ability to draw his characters and their situations.  \\"Dillinger in Hollywood\\" is a humorous, bittersweet tale about a man in a show business nursing home who maintains that he used to be John Dillinger before he had staged his \\"murder\\" and took a job as a driver on a movie lot.  Sayles occasionally breaks with his own traditions.  One of the messiest and shortest stories is also one of the most effective.  In \\"To the Light\\", Annie, a midwife, helps an illegal immigrant deliver a breech baby while remembering her first delivery, a boy who turned out to be a mass-murderer.<br /><br />Not surprisingly, John Sayles knows how to tell a story, even if it turns out to be a shaggy dog tale.  His unpretentious style is less visual than one would expect, and instead of giving the reader a sweeping scope, he focuses on quiet moments between characters. These largely traditional stories should appeal to a wide range of readers, from Sayles's film fans to readers of literary fiction.	2004-10-24
486101:US	52801489	RZUCHE4K9VRZR	1400034825	171778570	The Anchor Book of New American Short Stories	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Excellent and Innovative Fiction	In this anthology, editor Ben Marcus aims to show us the power in \\"the way our few stories are told\\", and he largely succeeds.  The fiction he has gathered embraces a wide range of approaches:  experimentalism and traditionalism; formalism and conversationalism; realism and surrealism.  Remarkably,  all establish unique emotional territories that linger after their reading.  Some are darkly serious (Kate Braverman's \\"Histories of the Undead\\"),  while others are boldly hilarious (\\"The Life and Work of Alphonse Kauders\\" by Aleksandar Hemon).  Some are long, intricate explorations (\\"When Mr. Pirzada Came to Dine\\" by Jhumpa Lahiri) while others are merely fictional flashes (Dawn Raffel's \\"Up the Old Goat Road\\").  Not one is reminiscent of another - and that makes for lively reading, especially when settling down for a long evening of one fiction after another.<br /><br />The stunning landscape and primitive world evoked in \\"Everything Ravaged, Everything Burned\\" (Wells Tower) assaults the senses and the mind as the story descends into  brutal violence and then emerges with an understanding of the love that comes out of it.  The story is simply brilliant.  Another standout is William Gay's \\"The Paperhanger\\", also a story about love and murder, where a child disappears after her mother argues with the paperhanger working on her unfinished house.  More outrageously, George Saunders's \\"Sea Oak\\" brings back the dead in the form of a furious, ambitious, decaying corpse who orders her deadbeat relatives to make something of themselves.<br /><br />The problem with such a varied collection is the effect on the more staid voices.  Kate Braverman and Jhumpa Lahiri, both excellent writers, cannot stand up to the innovation surrounding them.  Their careful storytelling seems boring in comparison to that of their more boundary-pushing colleagues.  That's not to say that all the experimental stories succeed; Joe Wenderoth's \\"Letters to Wendy's\\" left me wondering why it was included.  Despite the few missteps, with writers such as Stephen Dixon, Padgett Powell, Rick Bass, and A.M. Homes, readers should find several, if not most, stories to their liking.w missteps, with writers such as Stephen Dixon, Padgett Powell, Rick Bass, and A.M. Homes, readers should find several, if not most, stories to their liking.	2004-10-18
487522:US	52801489	R3A9043S1RFORU	0743257790	64273964	The Hollywood Dodo: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The Dodo as Metaphor and Punchline	In this delectable satire about Hollywood and extinction, Geoff Nicholson serves up a complicated recipe of has-beens, wannabes, maybes, and a few dodos - both literal and figurative.  British physician Henry accompanies his aspiring actress  and yellow-toothed daughter Dorothy to Hollywood where she is supposed to meet with a talent scout.  On the airplane, their paths cross briefly with self-described \\"Auteur of the Future\\" Rick, a young man prone to panic attacks and bouts of self-importance.  Rick harbors an obsession with dodo birds which leads him (and the reader) to the mysterious story of William Draper, a 17th century medical student afflicted with erythrohepatic porphyria, a genetic condition that causes skin to blister with exposure to sunlight.  Draper, too, is obsessed with dodos, and sets out to procure one of the last of the species on display in a seedy quarter of London.  As Henry discovers a similarly afflicted man trying to sell him an animation cel of a dodo, as Rick struggles with a bizarrely vivid past life regression brought on by a beautiful one-legged woman, and as Draper tries desperately to find a mate for his beloved but aging dodo, real-life intrudes on film, becoming art in itself, and questions arise about what is contrived and what is real.  And of course, since this is a novel, those questions ultimately mean nothing since all is fiction.<br /><br />With chapter titles cleverly named after movies, Nicholson never loses sight of the artificiality of the genre he is mocking.  The scenes that take place in Hollywood are hilarious, while Draper's affliction and affections are touchingly told.  Perhaps the most daring turn is Nicholson's dovetailing of disparate plot elements into a wild, unexpected finale. While much is left unexplained, the narrative wink at the end brings it all together.<br /><br />This is a truly fun novel.  Nicholson's wit is more sly than biting, and he relishes the absurd.  Below the hilarity lurks more serious themes - of corruption (what else in Hollywood?), of obsession, and of mortality - but these ideas never alter the established tone.  Readers will find that they can't put this novel aside for more than a few hours before picking it up again to devour the next chapter.rruption (what else in Hollywood?), of obsession, and of mortality - but these ideas never alter the established tone.   Readers will find that they can't put this novel aside for more than a few hours before picking it up again to devour the next chapter.	2004-10-17
497082:US	52801489	R2ZCBREZBGBCRC	0804106304	31287929	The Joy Luck Club	Books	5	46	54	N	N	A Tapestry of Stories	Amy Tan's novel of many voices has become required reading in high school and college contemporary literature courses - and for good reason.  Its intimate look at Chinese immigrants and their children opens up a wealth of questions about cultural acclimation in a country dominated by another race.  Set in San Francisco and China, the novel begins with Jing-Mei (\\"June\\"), who has been asked by her father to take her recently deceased mother's place in the Joy Luck Club, ostensibly a mah jong gathering of her mother's closest friends, but also an investment club, symbolizing the merging of the two cultures.  June agrees, although she doesn't feel she makes an adequate substitute for a woman who seemed so unlike her.  When her \\"aunties\\" urge June to tell her sisters, women she has never met and who were left at the side of a road in China, about her mother's life, they are troubled when she confesses that she did not know her mother except as a mother.  She sees that they fear that their own daughters might not know about them, and so she  impulsively promises to find her mother's long lost children and tell them about their mother.  In this way, the novel sets up its structure of interrelated stories. Although the stories of June and her mother Suyuan frame the others, those of An-Mei, Rose, Lindo, Waverly, Ying-ying, and Lena are no less important.<br /><br />These women and their daughters form a complicated quilt of what it means to be a Chinese-American, whether born in China or in the United States, and they highlight the difficulties of bridging two cultures.  The choices each woman makes are always difficult and often heart-breaking.  Students might want to explore the difference in attitude between the Chinese women and their American daughters.  Other topics for discussion include comparing and contrasting the relationships; the meaning of \\"Chinese blood\\" in the context of what unfolds; whether this is a true novel or a collection of stories; the ways in which the title refers not only to the actual Joy Luck Club but to the book in general; and the use of voice to convey characterization.<br /><br />This accessible, well-written first novel is not Amy Tan's most accomplished (see The Kitchen God's Wife and The Bonesetter's Daughter), but it is her most widely read.  Highly recommended for a general readership.ch the title refers not only to the actual Joy Luck Club but to the book in general; and the use of voice to convey characterization. <br /> <br />This accessible, well-written first novel is not Amy Tan's most accomplished (see The Kitchen God's Wife and The Bonesetter's Daughter), but it is her most widely read.  Highly recommended for a general readership.	2004-10-07
497084:US	52801489	R1I6LN8KXFRTV3	0156006308	739830078	Panther in the Basement	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	A "Word-child" in Extraordinary Times	Twelve-year old Proffy is in many ways an average preteen boy:  he is confused and ashamed of his new attraction to girls; he and his friends conspire against their enemies; he is just beginning to be aware that his parents have a life beyond him.  However, Proffy, nicknamed for his professorial tendencies, lives in extraordinary circumstances.  He is a Jew in 1947 British-occupied Palestine, and his parents work for the Underground while holding more official jobs, leaving Proffy at home alone for hours while school is out.  His grandparents, aunts, and uncles perished in the Holocaust, leaving Proffy and his parents as a small, close-knit, quasi-militant family at the mercy of curfews and unannounced searches of their home.  When an awkward, shy British officer befriends Proffy, exchanging lessons in English for lessons in Hebrew, Proffy is accused by his friends of being a \\"low-down traitor.\\"  Proffy cannot deny his odd fondness for Sergeant Dunlop, and their almost-secret relationship opens questions about loyalty, racism, oppression, friendship, and the creation of a Jewish state.<br /><br />Told through the first-person narration of Proffy as an adult, this slim novel melds adult insight with preteen earnestness.  In precise, often beautiful language, Amos Oz builds his novel through scenes that superficially seem unrelated but which, when combined, have real emotional force.  The inclusion of wordplay,  seeming non sequiturs, and historical references add richness to this coming-of-age story. Although at times the repetition of Proffy's image of himself as a \\"panther in the basement\\" (from a Tyrone Power movie) seems heavy-handed, Oz has a light touch elsewhere as Proffy debates serious issues.  The author's evocation of the times leading up to the official creation of modern Israel is brilliantly realized on a personal level through Proffy's intelligent but sometimes bewildered perspective.<br /><br />Despite the age of the protagonist, this is not a children's book, although readers as young as fourteen should be able to read and enjoy it.  I highly recommend this novel to readers of literary fiction and to those interested in the politics and history leading up to establishment of a modern Jewish homeland.children's book, although readers as young as fourteen should be able to read and enjoy it.  I highly recommend this novel to readers of literary fiction and to those interested in the politics and history leading up to establishment of a modern Jewish homeland.	2004-10-07
507781:US	52801489	R2X3BTA7J113R8	0060734450	479538690	Astonishing Splashes of Colour	Books	4	12	13	N	N	The Colors of a Collapsing World	This first-person novel of a world disintegrating was rightfully short-listed for the 2003 Man Booker Prize.  Author Clare Morrall has constructed an unforgettable novel of a woman desperately struggling to make sense of who she is.  Kitty sees life in colors - the yellow of motherhood, the pink of her nieces, the blinding white of all colors mixed together in her husband - but these colors, even as they comfort her, remind her constantly that she has lost a child and her ability to have another.  Her large family doesn't speak of tragedies and the past, and her husband James is even better at avoidance, as the two live in separate, side-by-side flats. Even though she is loved and protected by her family, she flails through her crisis by herself, with only her therapist to steady her in twenty minute appointments.  It becomes apparent from the beginning that Kitty needs a child, and will do or say anything to maintain the illusion that she is a mother.  Despite her tottering on the brink of insanity, Kitty's Birmingham, where most of the novel is set, is vivid and alive.  Her actions are sometimes chilling and yet they acquire logic through her eyes.<br /><br />Kitty's voice is consistently believable, and it provides the quiet, driving force of Morrall's novel.  Here, insanity has the voice of reason.  Even when the plot edges toward the melodramatic, Kitty's narration rescues it.  The characterizations aren't always as distinct as they might be, with some of Kitty's brothers melting into each other despite the author's attempts at distinguishing them.  Morrall writes, \\"None of them looked alike, but my memory produced a composite brother,\\" and even this early in the book, it comes across as an excuse.  Kitty's husband James is skillfully described through his flat, but when interacting with Kitty, he doesn't always have a shape.  Still, the portrait of Kitty's father is sharply realized as are most of the women and girls, most notably the little arsonist Kitty befriends.<br /><br /> In a head-to-head contest with Vernon God Little, the eventual winner of the 2003 Man Booker, this book easily wins my vote.  It probes the mind of an emotionally disturbed woman without being  gloomy and suffocating and instead opens her world outward and forward.  Highly recommended.ds.     In a head-to-head contest with Vernon God Little, the eventual winner of the 2003 Man Booker, this book easily wins my vote.  It probes the mind of an emotionally disturbed woman without being  gloomy and suffocating and instead opens her world outward and forward.  Highly recommended.	2004-09-28
515712:US	52801489	R3CW72FCVYVEVI	0679735909	627682796	Possession	Books	4	20	22	N	N	A Novel for Academics	A.S. Byatt's POSSESSION is an intellectual's book.  Its most tangible passion is for the acquisition of knowledge rather than for the depths of the love stories it contains.  Roland Mitchell, a young and floundering scholar, uncovers two unsent letters written by the Victorian poet he is studying, Randolph Henry Ash.  Instead of declaring them to the staff of the London Library, he slips them undetected into his belongings - and sets in motion a literary detective story.  The letters suggest that Ash may not have been entirely faithful to his wife, and Roland's attempts to uncover the identity of the woman lead him to Maud Bailey, a feminist scholar and a descendent of, and expert on, the poet Christabel LaMotte, the probable woman in question.  As the two scholars work together to uncover the truth of the relationship through letters, journals, poetry, and retracing the movements of their respective poets, they find themselves unwilling to share their discoveries with the outside world.  As other, more powerful academics are alerted to their suspicious research, the two become even more insular, to the detriment of personal relationships and careers.  Everyone, it seems, wants sole possession of the information they have since it threatens to challenge everything previously written about the two poets.<br /><br />The \\"Romance\\" part of the title is misleading, for Byatt uses the term in the Victorian, and not the Harlequin, sense.  Yes, the romance between Ash and LaMotte is uncovered, and yes, something simmers between Roland and Maud, but the overriding story involves intellectual sparring and academic adventure.  If you do not like formal poetry, don't even bother opening this book, as Byatt fills it with lengthy, Victorian-style poems that she expects the reader to interpret as artistic proof of the poets' relationship.  Large sections of the book are also filled with the correspondence between Ash and LaMotte, the intentionally bland journal of Ash's wife Ellen, the journal of LaMotte's live-in lover, and excerpts from a biography written by the archrival of Roland's advisor.  While the piecing together of this evidence is both ambitious and clever, the result is a diluted narrative drive.  Passion - and possessiveness - is never as strong when described to another as it is in action, and Byatt's approach leaves little room for lively interaction.  Instead, she relies on the reader's intellectual curiosity, hoping he cares about the fate of literary legacies as much as she does.  The strongest, most vivid passages are written in the more traditional storytelling technique of limited third-person, allowing the reader to see through the eyes of various characters, most notably, near the end, of Ellen Ash, who finally comes alive.  The closing pages, also written this way, are powerfully realized.<br /><br />I can understand why many readers cannot finish this novel, as the formal and often ornate prose feels cold even with Byatt's keen eye; however, readers who like their fiction on an intellectual plane will find much to admire.  I recommend this novel only for serious, and tenacious, readers who enjoy both prose and poetry and who are willing to forgo emotion for the sake of intellectual satisfaction.en, the journal of LaMotte's live-in lover, and excerpts from a biography written by the archrival of Roland's advisor.  While the piecing together of this evidence is both ambitious and clever, the result is a diluted narrative drive.  Passion - and possessiveness - is never as strong when described to another as it is in action, and Byatt's approach leaves little room for lively interaction.  Instead, she relies on the reader's intellectual curiosity, hoping he cares about the fate of literary legacies as much as she does.   The strongest, most vivid passages are written in the more traditional storytelling technique of limited third-person, allowing the reader to see through the eyes of various characters, most notably, near the end, of Ellen Ash, who finally comes alive.   The closing pages, also written this way, are powerfully realized.   <br /> <br />I can understand why many readers cannot finish this novel, as the formal and often ornate prose feels cold even with Byatt's keen eye; however, readers who like their fiction on an intellectual plane will find much to admire.  I recommend this novel only for serious, and tenacious, readers who enjoy both prose and poetry and who are willing to forgo emotion for the sake of intellectual satisfaction.	2004-09-20
516286:US	52801489	R10DXJ6CKJDYFI	0679746048	92211220	Girl, Interrupted	Books	5	129	135	N	N	A Moving and Honest Portrait of Mental Illness	This slim memoir of a college student who suffers a \\"breakdown\\" honestly explores the details of mental illness, specifically \\"borderline personality\\" disorders.  The account starts in a cold, almost frightening way:  the first page is a copy of author Kaysen's case record folder.  The reader then is given a fleeting description of the quiet moments leading up to Kaysen's lengthy hospitalization, and then is shown more official documents.  This juxtaposition of the clinical with the personal highlights exactly what this memoir aims to express, that the darkness of mental disease has a face, a voice, that can be hidden by labels and diagnoses.<br /><br />Kaysen's difficult and often terrifying journey  - from the ordinary daughter of two achieving parents to a patient at a psychiatric hospital to, tentatively, a recovered young woman - is at once moving and beautiful.  Even when the author asks questions that many before her have asked, she makes them seem fresh: \\"What is it about meter and cadence and rhythm that makes their makers mad?\\"  She explores her illness at its most intimate moments and often follows her breaks with reality with detached physician reports, giving the reader both inside and outside perspectives.  Through her interactions with other patients, Kaysen makes it clear that not everyone is as fortunate as she, since some cannot extricate themselves from their illness.  Interestingly, despite once not believing that she really had bones inside her, Kaysen is not convinced she was mentally ill; if nothing else, this questions the internal changes we've been taught to accept as part of the onset of mental illness.<br /><br />This book should not be read by anyone believing she is slipping toward insanity, but it might be a comfort to those who have already emerged.  Kaysen is at once ordinary and gifted despite this turbulent part of her life.  More importantly, this book should be read by the loved ones of those in distress, for it gives a human dimension to what is often ostracized.  Understanding the thought processes of at least one stricken young women goes a long way to having compassion for and understanding others.is often ostracized.  Understanding the thought processes of at least one stricken young women goes a long way to having compassion for and understanding others.	2004-09-20
523699:US	52801489	R1T072VR3BK6B9	1592400876	436381860	Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation	Books	4	6	8	N	N	British Spunk and Punctuation	This acerbic, often hilarious British bestseller guides readers through the rules and guidelines of punctuation.  Not to be confused with a grammar book (although grammar does come into play),  this short treatise concentrates solely on the marks used to manage sentences in the English language. Author Lynne Truss is a self-proclaimed \\"stickler\\" when it comes to punctuation, a person who will run down the street screaming at the sight of a misplaced apostrophe, and she provides clear, unambiguous rules to combat such situations.  In addition to explaining the hard-and-fast rules, she acknowledges the gray areas of usage.  For example, in her section on commas, she explains the importance of properly dividing a sentence as well as the discretionary nature of the mark, citing an amusing exchange between James Thurber and his conservative editor that highlights issues of clarity and artistic intention.  The use of a comma for rhythm and emphasis within a sentence is a topic few style manuals discuss, and I appreciated the author's attention to this less understood application.<br /><br />To Truss's enormous credit, she enlivens the traditionally dry subject matter with outrageously funny examples and a wit that could cut the Queen herself down to size. She illustrates the proper use of the colon and semi-colon.  She talks about comma splices, question marks, periods (or, in British English, \\"full stops\\"), exclamation points, dashes, quotation marks, and apostrophes.  Thankfully, she also points out where American rules differ from the British lest we all end up confused when corresponding internationally.  Her coverage is comprehensive and clear.<br /><br />For those who second-guess themselves, this book can be an invaluable (and painless) guide to correct usage.  Most people comfortable writing in English won't find many surprises - save a historical fact or two - but the sheer fun of the book is worth every minute.  From high school students to octogenarians, readers will find this a delightful exploration of a much-neglected aspect of writing.  I highly recommend this book for sticklers and fumblers alike.this a delightful exploration of a much-neglected aspect of writing.  I highly recommend this book for sticklers and fumblers alike.	2004-09-13
536274:US	52801489	RT2D1IKMYT2OZ	0764125133	307875210	Italian At a Glance (At a Glance Series)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A Solid Phrasebook	Let's face it.  Phrasebooks are for survival, not for mastering a language during a one week stay, and this pocket size book has served me well.  I've been to Italy several times, and, contrary to common belief, not many Italians speak English, particularly in the smaller cities. A phrasebook is a must, and I haven't found one better than the Barron's.  It covers emergencies, driving, eating out, sightseeing, clothing, entertaining, shopping, banking, and many more topics.  The dictionary in the back covers basic words to assist in communication.  The pronunciation guide is first-rate; people were actually able to understand me when I tried the phrases.  (Of course, I rarely understood them!)<br /><br />I particularly appreciated the plastic cover, as my book survived thunderstorms and acted as a coaster at least once.  People who already know a romance language will find it easier to pick up these phrases, but anyone with the determination to navigate a foreign country will find it helpful.	2004-09-01
537045:US	52801489	R2QGZQJOBMRX0T	059530253X	885318963	A Small Case of Murder	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Complex Murder Mystery	In Lauren Carr's carefully constructed murder mystery, the protagonist Joshua Thornton, a JAG attorney on leave to care for his five children after the death of his wife, arrives in the small town of Chester, West Virginia, the place where he grew up and where he hopes his children will find stability.  He is hoping for a quiet life as a single father.  However, before the boxes have even been unpacked, his children uncover a mystery letter that suggests Chester might not be as idyllic as Joshua thought.  Before long, Joshua is named as a special prosecutor to investigate a series of murders that may or may not be related to the letter written decades before.  Is there a connection between the disappearing body that Joshua's parents stumbled upon and the charismatic Reverend Rawlings?  What about the drug peddling of Rawlings' granddaughter Vicki and the addicted pharmacist?  Who is Amber, and why does she know so much?  And how does the deceased town doctor, the current sheriff, and Joshua's cousin Tad fit into the mystery?<br /><br />The most painful part of reading this otherwise riveting novel is knowing that a commercial publisher would have snapped up this book and launched the author's career if not for the amateurish first fifty pages.  Carr's manuscript probably never stood a chance because of the awkward writing - excessive adverbs, unnecessary dialogue tags, and inexact language.  Characterizations are imprecise, particularly among Joshua's children, and keeping track of who's who can be cumbersome.  However, once this story gets cooking, Carr proves herself an adept storyteller, juggling motives, clues, relationships, and red herrings like a pro.  While the writing remains somewhat clumsy  (several women \\"look becomingly\\" at our hero, and Joshua's children are often referred to as his \\"offspring\\" as though they were bear cubs) and the point-of-view shifts are dizzyingly inconsistent, the story itself takes over.  And what a murder mystery it is!  Even though readers will figure out crucial elements prior to the final revelation, there isn't enough time to contemplate all the twists Carr provides.  The rush to the end is breathless.<br /><br />Although this book desperately needed a few more revisions with a good editor, Carr's talent is obvious.  For mystery lovers, this is a fun, rollicking ride - as long as you can overlook a few flaws.  Hang onto your first editions of this book, as Carr has the ability to break into future best seller lists.eaders will figure out crucial elements prior to the final revelation, there isn't enough time to contemplate all the twists Carr provides.  The rush to the end is breathless.     Although this book desperately needed a few more revisions with a good editor, Carr's talent is obvious.  For mystery lovers, this is a fun, rollicking ride - as long as you can overlook a few flaws.  Hang onto your first editions of this book, as Carr has the ability to break into future best seller lists.	2004-08-31
554029:US	52801489	R1EA2GGAJHCPHR	0743255550	724248507	The Book of Ralph: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An episodic novel about growing up in the seventies	John McNally, author of the collection Troublemakers and the editor of numerous anthologies, makes his novelistic debut with this gently satiric story about the odd relationship between the narrator Hank and the school bad boy.  Much of the novel unfolds in Chicago during the seventies as Hank navigates the awkwardness of junior high. He becomes the reluctant sidekick of Ralph, the oldest boy in the fifth grade (Ralph was left back twice) and the one who dreams up harebrained schemes, most of which could end up with both boys in police custody.  Ralph's older and probably criminal cousins, Kenny and Norm, steer the boys in dubious directions.  Despite their shared adventures, Hank and Ralph seem destined to go their separate ways in adulthood, with Ralph the kind of kid that ends up a felon and Hank likely to live quietly in the suburbs.  Each has a different vision of the future, with Hank's gleaming paper towel tube city contrasting sharply with Ralph's meticulous rendition no different from the present.  The final quarter of the novel reveals the truth as McNally leaps ahead into 2001.<br /><br />McNally employs an anecdotal method of storytelling, with individual scenes coming together more like a collage than a traditional novel, and the technique lends a memory box feel to the bulk of the work.  References to the seventies abound, and readers having lived through the times will laugh at McNally's ironic eye.  The non-linear sequences can be confusing, as it's not always clear when certain events occurred in context with the rest, but McNally's lucid style draws the reader along with authority.<br /><br />The Book of Ralph is an entertaining and adept book that should appeal to a general readership.  I recommend this as a complement to Ward Just's An Unfinished Season, a very different novel about growing up in Chicago.	2004-08-16
561509:US	52801489	R1XSDBDIR5I1BN	0571215939	380616820	The Breath of Life	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An absolutely stunning play!	David Hare's play unfolds in a single set with only two characters, but \\"The Breath of Life\\" is anything but simple.  Frances arrives at the seaside Victorian flat where Madeleine lives in the relative bliss of being single and accountable to no one.  Francis is a mother of grown children and a novelist who has all the responsibility that Madeleine eschews.  These women, while sharing little in common on the surface, have the enormous bond of having loved the same man, one as mistress and the other as wife, and of having lost him to a mysterious American woman.  With Francis planning on writing a memoir, Madeleine is at once on guard.  As the two circle each other warily, much about their lives and their philosophies simmer under the surface, occasionally bursting forth in small, meaningful gasps.<br /><br />Hare imbues his play with intricate yet subtle emotions that make this play riveting to read.  His biting exploration of the difference between fiction and nonfiction, as it applies both to his characters and the audience, is never forced and always significant.  The real life of this play comes from the superb dialogue and the in-depth characterizations, making it an excellent showcase for actresses skilled enough to bring the nuances of character to the stage.<br /><br />Originally staged in London starring Judi Dench and Maggie Smith, \\"The Breath of Life\\" must have wowed audiences, as I cannot imagine better casting.  If you can't see a production of this wonderful play, read it and imagine since even in text form it has tremendous life.	2004-08-09
573030:US	52801489	R8YONR67VZ26B	0385720793	424209838	Copenhagen	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Intriguing concept - but is it drama?	Reading a play poses challenges, as one must imagine it as a production while reading it as a book, and Michael Frayn's &quot;Copenhagen&quot; is no exception. Written without stage directions or set descriptions, and relying solely on dialogue, this three-person play describes the complicated relationship between Niels Bohr and Werner Heisenberg, two physicists responsible for groundbreaking work in quantum physics. With Bohr's wife Margrethe acting as a fulcrum, the two great physicists discuss their lives before, during, and after World War II, using Heisenberg's visits to Copenhagen as focal points. Probably the most radical device Frayn uses is skipping around in time (appropriate given the mention of Einstein) where the characters speak after they have died as well as in the past, often with one describing to the audience what is happening or what something means while the other two interact; the reader has to be astute enough to &quot;hear&quot; the change in tone to know whether the characters are speaking in the past or as deceased observers, especially since the change can occur from one sentence to the next. This play gathers its power mostly near the end as certain principles of quantum mechanics, particularly the ability of an atomic particle to act like both matter and wave, clarify these relationships. Issues of personal responsibility and negligence ignite the last pages.<br /><br /> But is this drama? Frayn does not create scenes except through expository writing and discussions. Action is described rather than shown, and thematic development is contained solely in the words spoken by the characters. What's worse, the characters seem too aware of the implications of their actions, making the dialogue somewhat heavy-handed. I would expect skilled actors to be able to magnify the glimpses of deep emotion as well as enliven what is already an intriguing concept, but in lesser hands, this play could end up as a mere exercise. The cover perfectly describes the starkness of &quot;Copenhagen&quot;: three industrial chairs on an empty stage, two characters talking while another looks on.<br /><br /> Frayn's postscript lends context to the play, and I recommend not skipping it since this is an intellectual play about an intellectual topic. Particularly interesting is Frayn's description of fact, background, interpretation, and pure imagination on his part.<br /><br /> The average play reader should find &quot;Copenhagen&quot; fascinating. The basics of quantum mechanics are rendered in understandable and digestible bits. If you are planning to see a production of &quot;Copenhagen&quot; in the near future, the book is worth purchasing for the postscript; it should enhance your enjoyment of the production.starkness of &quot;Copenhagen&quot;: three industrial chairs on an empty stage, two characters talking while another looks on.       Frayn's postscript lends context to the play, and I recommend not skipping it since this is an intellectual play about an intellectual topic. Particularly interesting is Frayn's description of fact, background, interpretation, and pure imagination on his part.      The average play reader should find &quot;Copenhagen&quot; fascinating. The basics of quantum mechanics are rendered in understandable and digestible bits. If you are planning to see a production of &quot;Copenhagen&quot; in the near future, the book is worth purchasing for the postscript; it should enhance your enjoyment of the production.	2004-07-29
584493:US	52801489	R39OBQ7Q8S5ZTE	0670032891	260413038	The Well of Lost Plots: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	4	24	27	N	N	Hilarious Send-Up of Literature and Writing	From the first chapter of Jasper Fforde's third novel, you can tell that the author had a blast writing this satiric mystery that explores the creation of fiction.  Thursday Next - pregnant by her eradicated husband, haunted by a Hades sister intent on destroying her memory, and a Jurisfiction apprentice to none other than Miss Havisham of Dickens fame  - takes refuge in a poorly written and unpublished crime novel called Caversham Heights.  Thursday expects to rest there until the birth of her child, but she and Miss Havisham discover that the death of another agent by a Minotaur attack might not be the accident it seems.  Meanwhile, nursery rhyme characters threaten a strike for not being treated like other fictional characters, two generic characters living with Thursday begin to become more well-rounded, and Thursday tries to save Caversham Heights from being destroyed by the Council of Genres for being so hopelessly bad.<br />The more you know about literature, the more hilarious you'll find this fantasy.  Characters are being manufactured in record numbers because Vikram Seth is planning a new novel, and no one wants a return to minimalism simply because of a character shortage.  Heathcliff, Catherine, and the rest of the characters from Wuthering Heights attend anger management classes, and Mr. Toad is relentless in his competition with Miss Havisham for the fastest driver in both the Book World and the Outland.  And if you're interesting in writing, you'll gain tips for keeping your novel out of the Text Sea, as Fforde pokes fun at hackneyed writing and incomplete character development.<br />Because this is my first Fforde novel, I started reading this without any knowledge of what has happened previously in the series, but the author provides enough of a synopsis in the beginning to give a new reader the proper bearings.  Despite this, there remains a disjointedness at times as so much satire is pumped into the book that does little to advance the plot.  Sometimes Thursday seems to be there purely as a straight man, raising the question that perhaps Fforde should have heeded some of his own lessons in fiction writing.  Fortunately, these lapses are few and don't hinder the enjoyment of the novel as a whole.  This relatively long novel is not demanding and can be read more quickly than the page count might indicate.<br />As a literary joke, The Well of Lost Plots is a triumph.  As a mystery/fantasy, it is less successful.  Readers will nonetheless delight in Fforde's imagination as he takes them through the land of the unpublished and the more solid, though more turbulent, ground of the classics.ometimes Thursday seems to be there purely as a straight man, raising the question that perhaps Fforde should have heeded some of his own lessons in fiction writing.  Fortunately, these lapses are few and don't hinder the enjoyment of the novel as a whole.  This relatively long novel is not demanding and can be read more quickly than the page count might indicate. <br />As a literary joke, The Well of Lost Plots is a triumph.  As a mystery/fantasy, it is less successful.  Readers will nonetheless delight in Fforde's imagination as he takes them through the land of the unpublished and the more solid, though more turbulent, ground of the classics.	2004-07-18
590136:US	52801489	R25FDU2GKHBUBP	0060932686	887166280	Collected Stories	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Stories by a Master	This collection of twenty six stories by Nobel Laureate Garcia Marquez was first published as a whole in 1984, although the stories were previously published in three separate volumes.  As a consequence, two translators are credited here:  Gregory Rabassa for the stories from EYES OF A BLUE DOG and THE INCREDIBLE AND SAD TALE OF INNOCENT ERENDIRA AND HER HEARTLESS GRANDMOTHER, and J. S. Bernstein for the stories from BIG MAMA'S FUNERAL.  Both scholars and avid followers will appreciate the chronological ordering of these tales as well as the dating of first publication from 1947 to 1972 to see the progression of a much heralded talent.<br />As befitting the work of a master, every story is wonderfully told, with deft touches that make each memorable.  Many, particularly the early stories, deal with death, particularly the separation of consciousness from the physical body, and many explore the messiness of love.  Several combine the two.  In &quot;Death Constant Before Love,&quot; a politician suffering from a terminal disease falls in love with a girl given to him as a political favor.  &quot;The Third Resignation&quot; tells the tale of a seven year old boy who falls into a coma and then grows up in a coffin in his mother's house.  Three times, he resigns himself to death.  &quot;There Are No Thieves In This Town&quot; chronicles the foolishness of a man who steals three billiard balls from a local pool hall and who loses his wife and unborn child for it.  Always, Garcia Marquez's exception talent for storytelling carries these tales alone with a romantic and mystical eye for human vulnerability.  His style is never rushed, always lingering over the moment, which gives even the shortest stories the feel of a novella.  Not all these stories embrace the magic realism for which the author is famous, although the reader will emerge bewitched all the same.	2004-07-14
593633:US	52801489	R3MJOMBPOV9A90	0345392825	731711467	Reviving Ophelia: Saving the Selves of Adolescent Girls (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Still relevant a decade later	When I first read this book five years ago, my daughter was only eleven, on the brink of the age that author Pipher addresses here.  At the time, the book was recommended in a circle of mothers as a must-read.  Now I am revisiting it as the mother of a sixteen-year old daughter, and I find it just as relevant than I did on first reading.  Sure life has changed from its first publication a decade ago, but the stresses of growing up and dealing with the cattiness of adolescent girls is both timeless and universal.  Girls hurt - and hurt themselves - in different ways than boys.<br />Pipher does an excellent job demonstrating her points through case studies she has personally encountered during her career as a professional psychologist.  By seeing how Pipher helped these troubled girls overcome with their lack of self-esteem and coping mechanisms, parents are given the tools to help their own daughters, hopefully before the problems become too large to be dealt with at home.  The warning signs of depression, drug use, sexual activity, eating disorders, and more are outlined within the text, exposing the varied symptoms that take into account the individuality of each girl.  The biggest lesson parents should take away from this book is this: these disorders and behaviors can happen to any family, to any child, even the most seemingly obedient and happy.  Every girl, no matter how successful socially or academically, suffers during this transition period between childhood and womanhood.  The question is always this: How much?<br />I advise parents to read this book before your child enters adolescence so you will be better prepared for this turbulent time.  However, if you already have a troubled teen, it's not too late.  This book is not a substitute for much needed therapy for the most extreme cases, but it offers parents the comfort of knowing that both they and their daughter are not alone in their struggles.	2004-07-12
593722:US	52801489	R3M3U69SCDP95S	014100018X	598461998	Chocolat	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sugared Magic Realism	In this lusciously mystical novel, Vianne Rocher and her young daughter Anouk arrive in a small French village on Mardi Gras. Vianne, the daughter of a gypsy and a wanderer herself, sets up her chocolate shop during the most austere of Christian seasons, Lent, thus infuriating the local priest who knows his parishioners will struggle with their Lenten vows. Vianne turns out to be a not-so-ordinary shopkeeper, and Reynaud the priest is not the holy man he pretends. As Vianne befriends the down-trodden, including a band of gypsies, her force in the village becomes as powerful as Reynaud feared.<br />With its tantalizing descriptions, this book will have readers dreaming of the finest chocolates and confections.  The language can be at times self-conscious and overblown, but the overall effect is mesmerizing, thanks to Harris's visual style and attention to detail.  The biggest flaw of this otherwise skilled first novel is the unsatisfying ending and the one-dimensional way Vianne connects emotionally with the gypsies.  These forced elements can be forgiven, however, given the moving lyricism of the rest.<br />CHOCOLAT is a beautiful but flawed work that offers much more than the average novel.  If you haven't already read this and are a fan of magic realism, you should pick it up.  You won't be disappointed.	2004-07-12
597251:US	52801489	R1JX8GM5QTHD7O	0393058883	957212209	The Persistence of Memory	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Wow.	Tony Eprile has constructed an impressive novel of a changing South Africa that is both warm and bitingly funny, even as it exposes a heart - and a country - torn to shreds.  Narrator Paul is a Jew, neither Afrikaner nor Englishman, whose love for food and unblinking memory makes him the butt of schoolyard jokes from students and teachers alike.  When he is later sent into Namibia to a war his homeland doesn't officially recognize, he finds that he is as much a misfit there as he was in school, although here the stakes are much higher.  What Paul sees, for he can never forget the smallest details of anything, stays within him, tormenting him, crippling him, but never destroying his lugubrious sense of humor.<br />What marks this novel as an exceptional literary work is not its plot, or even its lovable protagonist, but the detail and wit the author uses to dismantle the many facets of a complicated country.  Through Paul's story, Eprile shows the changing political climate, the ethnic divisions (not only between blacks and whites), the suburbs and cities, the schools, the national consciousness, and the tensions that continue to exist despite an eventual end to apartheid.  Although Eprile occasionally gets carried away with his often complicated prose, it's usually for comic effect, as in this description of a fly: &quot;It sits in my palm, this winged myrmidon that was around to torment the first land mammals scurrying to avoid the attention of the giant saurians, rubbing its hands together like a surgeon scrubbing up.&quot;<br />This novel, a debut after a collection of stories, is a compelling, sharp portrait of a nation as seen through the eyes of a misfit. Eprile manages to pull off his prose pyrotechnics without sacrificing an honest, emotional engagement with his subject matter.  I cannot find enough superlatives to describe this wonderful novel, one of the best I've read this year.	2004-07-09
601914:US	52801489	R39NZEJB6A7A2	1400042143	595064094	The Lemon Table: Stories	Books	5	44	46	N	N	Another elegant collection from Julian Barnes	The eleven stories that comprise THE LEMON TABLE share two things:  the theme of growing old and Julian Barnes' trademark wit.  These mostly traditional tales explore characters as they age, or come to terms with approaching death, or look back from old age to a younger, more confusing time.  In the marvelous &quot;A Short History of Hairdressing,&quot; a trilogy of numbered sections lets the reader in on the haircutting sessions Gregory has experienced during three distinct stages of his life, from youthful helplessness to adult insolence to elderly obstinacy.  &quot;The Story of Mats Israelson,&quot; with its Old World feel, tells of unrequited love and its ultimate disappointment.  &quot;Knowing French&quot; is perhaps the most clever and playful of the stories, as an elderly woman in a nursing home, Sylvia, writes to &quot;Julian Barnes&quot; after discovering his book FLAUBERT'S PARROT in the B section of the library.  Told only through Sylvia's words, the reader can only guess at the &quot;author's&quot; end of the correspondence, and the result is a fond, often hilarious, exchange that grows in meaning.  Likewise &quot;The Silence&quot; has its laugh-out-loud moments in the flash scenes and comments revealed by the aging composer Sibelius: &quot;A French Critic, seeking to loathe my Third symphony, quoted Gounod: 'Only God composes in C major.'  Precisely.&quot;  The only story in this collection that I found lacking was &quot;The Things You Know&quot; where two catty widows try to jockey for mental advantage over the other by what they know.  Here, the characters are less distinct and the execution of the premise not as controlled as in the rest of the stories.  Despite this lag, this collection shows Barnes at top form.<br />Barnes' voice is decidedly British, with sentences that harbor both formality and sly wit.  &quot;Droll&quot; is an adjective often used to describe Barnes' work, and it is an appropriate one for many of these stories.  American readers especially will get a kick out of the British/Barnes colloquialisms in &quot;Hygiene&quot; where there's &quot;no excuse for playing argy-bargy with the kerb.&quot;<br />Lovely, mannered, astute - these stories will not disappoint.s especially will get a kick out of the British/Barnes colloquialisms in &quot;Hygiene&quot; where there's &quot;no excuse for playing argy-bargy with the kerb.&quot;  <br />Lovely, mannered, astute - these stories will not disappoint.	2004-07-06
605603:US	52801489	R1S9XHE4J9345I	0142003905	180834434	Charlie Chan Is Dead 2: At Home in the World (An Anthology of Contemporary Asian American Fiction-- Revised and Updated)	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	An Excellent Range of Voices and Cultures	Jessica Hagedorn has put together a mostly impressive collection of short stories and a few novel excerpts written by Asian Americans.  From well-known names to lesser known talents, this anthology covers the wide terrain of both stylistic approaches and Asian cultures.  Its writers can claim heritages from Vietnam, India, the Philippines, China, Taiwan, Japan, Cambodia, and Korea.  Some stories, such as Peter Ho Davies's &quot;The Hull Case,&quot; have little, if anything, to do with Asian culture, but most have stronger connections to cultural uniqueness.  Sarah Chin's &quot;Red Wall&quot; follows a Chinese-American narrator as she explores the faces of China as the member of a documentary film crew.  Bharati Mukherjee, in her well-known and powerful story &quot;The Management of Grief,&quot; explores the impact on the Canadian-Indian community of a plane crash in India that kills their loved ones.  Ka Vang's &quot;Ms. Pac-Man Ruined My Gang Life&quot; tells of a Hmong member of a girl-gang who is forced by her home-girls to exact revenge on a Puerto Rican girl.  Gish Jen's strong &quot;Who's Irish?&quot; is movingly told in broken but lucid English by a Chinese woman who doesn't like the wildness in her half-Irish granddaughter.  Some of my favorite writers are included here:  Chang-Rae Lee, Ruth Ozeki, Akhil Sharma, Mukherjee, Jhumpa Lahiri, Monique Truong.  However, many of these forty-two writers were unknown to me before I read their stories, and I'm grateful Hagedorn introduced me to their work.<br />While some of these stories fall short of succeeding, all are well-written.  The range in voices gives the reader a sense of the variety of the cultures and their individual members.  I recommend this for readers of international fiction as well as Asian-Americans who long for writers who speak to their culture.  This would make an excellent textbook for high school and college level courses that explore non-Western contemporary literature.	2004-07-02
617295:US	52801489	R2UIRLHQK8JJOI	0618036695	189151308	An Unfinished Season: A Novel	Books	5	58	61	N	N	The Unequal Weight of Grief	Ward Just's novel about the loss of innocence is the type of novel that can sneak up on a reader with its unassuming style and emotional power.  Told in the steady voice of narrator Wils Ravan, AN UNFINISHED SEASON is set mostly in and around Chicago during the 1950's.  Wils, who will soon enter the University of Chicago, spends his summer divided between working for a tabloid newspaper and attending the obligatory debutante balls: seersucker jacket by day, tux by night.  These diversions, and the promise of leaving home for his own future at the end of the summer, make it easier for Wils to turn away from the troubled turn in his parents' marriage, something Wils can define only as &quot;unequal grief&quot;.  When at one of the dances Wils encounters a girl unlike those he has met before, he finds himself entering her world and leaving behind his own.  Aurora Brule captures his heart, but it is her father Jack, a man who zealously guards his innermost demons, who haunts Wils long after the summer ends.<br />This surprising complex novel is only 250 pages long and yet it manages to weave in the political and historical atmosphere of the time, with the McCarthy hearings and tabloid journalism and the relative innocence of the upper class.  It evokes a time when the country's own innocence was on the brink of disillusionment.  Written without quotation marks, this book demands slightly more concentration that a more traditionally punctuated novel, but the confident language of Wils's voice makes it easy to navigate.<br />I highly recommend this novel for readers of literary fiction, especially those who like fiction in the style of Tobias Wolff's OLD SCHOOL.  This intimate look into the turbulent summer of a teenage boy deserves a place on the bookshelves of serious readers.	2004-06-24
617605:US	52801489	R1U52DETE4CREM	0141439661	569473707	Sense and Sensibility (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	161	180	N	N	An Excellent Introduction to Jane Austen's Works	Although SENSE AND SENSIBILITY is not of one Jane Austen's best novels, it is nonetheless a major novel, with the author's then-young talent in full display.  Its publication in 1811 marked Austen as a huge literary talent, and its significance reverberates even today as contemporary readers re-discover the works of this author so adept at uncovering the foibles of nineteenth century aristocracy.<br />The title refers to the two eldest Dashwood sisters, Elinor and Marianne, one of whom (Elinor) embraces practicality and restraint while the other (Marianne) gives her whole heart to every endeavor.  When the Dashwoods - mother Mrs. Dashwood, Elinor, Marianne, and youngest sister Margaret - are sent, almost impoverished, to a small cottage in Devonshire after the death of their father and the machinations of their brother's wife, they accept their new circumstances with as much cheer as they can muster even though their brother and his wife have taken over the family estate and fortune. Their characters, albeit wildly different in their approaches to life, are impeccably honest and intelligent - and their suitors take notice.  Elinor falls in love with the shy, awkward Edward, while Marianne's affections are lavished on the dashing hunter Willoughby.  As in all Austen's books, love and marriage don't come easily, as affections aren't always returned and social jockeying sometimes takes precedence to true love.  In an interestingly twist, the end of this novel brings into question which sister represents which part of the title.<br />SENSE AND SENSIBILITY only hints at the social skewering Austen would use to such great effect in her later novels, and the humor here is only occasional and slight, as this novel adopts a generally serious tone.  Parody is largely limited to the gossipy Mrs. Jenkins, who jumps to wild conclusions about situations she knows nothing about.  Though arranged marriage and true love figure prominently in all of Austen's novels, this novel focuses almost exclusivity on the prospects of the two main characters, making it less complex than the novels that followed.  Reserved Elinor and exuberant Marianne are expertly drawn, with Edward, Willoughby, and Colonel Brandon (whose lovesick hopes for Marianne are dashed again and again) also engaging creations.  Except for the first page or two where the circumstances of the Dashwoods are set up through a series of deaths and relations, possibly causing some confusion, this novel is exceedingly easy to follow for contemporary readers.<br />This novel is an excellent introduction to Jane Austen's works because of its relative simplicity (though readers should not dismiss it as simple) and the use of typical themes and social situations.  Book clubs and students might want to explore the influence of money on nineteenth century British society as well as the meaning of the title as it applies to both the sisters and the other characters.  It is also interesting to note both the helplessness and the extraordinary power of women in different circumstances.<br />Just because this is not Austen's best novel, I could not take away a single star because it is such a delightful book.  I highly recommend this novel for all readers.s almost exclusivity on the prospects of the two main characters, making it less complex than the novels that followed.  Reserved Elinor and exuberant Marianne are expertly drawn, with Edward, Willoughby, and Colonel Brandon (whose lovesick hopes for Marianne are dashed again and again) also engaging creations.  Except for the first page or two where the circumstances of the Dashwoods are set up through a series of deaths and relations, possibly causing some confusion, this novel is exceedingly easy to follow for contemporary readers.<br />This novel is an excellent introduction to Jane Austen's works because of its relative simplicity (though readers should not dismiss it as simple) and the use of typical themes and social situations.  Book clubs and students might want to explore the influence of money on nineteenth century British society as well as the meaning of the title as it applies to both the sisters and the other characters.  It is also interesting to note both the helplessness and the extraordinary power of women in different circumstances.<br />Just because this is not Austen's best novel, I could not take away a single star because it is such a delightful book.  I highly recommend this novel for all readers.	2004-06-23
618463:US	52801489	ROO00PV1F4O0I	0151010749	382155161	The Ghost Writer	Books	5	83	91	N	N	A Stylish, Atmospheric Ghost Story	In his debut novel, John Harwood creates an eerily psychological horror story with a nod (and a wave) to Victorian literature.  As the novel begins in Australia, young Gerard discovers hidden away in his mother's possessions a strange photograph and a book.  His mother swoops down on him with fury, snatching the belongings from him and hiding them away where Gerard cannot find them, refusing to tell him of her past.  Soon thereafter, he begins a secret correspondence with a crippled English girl named Alice, and her letters rescue him emotionally from the bleak surroundings in his Australian home.  As he matures, he falls in love with Alice, who won't let him see her for fear he'll feel sorry for her. As he learns that the book his mother has hidden away contained a ghost story written by his grandmother Viola, which Harwood presents in full, Gerard confides even more deeply in Alice.  Viola's lengthy - and thoroughly creepy - stories seem like separate entities until Gerard discovers some disturbing connections.  Upon his mother's death, he sets out to England to finally meet up with his almost-healed Alice and to settle family matters.  What he doesn't count on, however, is that nothing, not even his own senses, can be trusted.  Even if the reader solves much of the mystery before it is revealed, the ending has all the force it should, thanks to Harwood's highly visual description and talent with suspense.<br />Harwood does a marvelous job of embedding the mannered ghost stories within Gerard's story, and the stories-within-a-story works exceptionally well in his hands.  The tales are so throat-grabbing by themselves that I forgot at times that they were but segments of the whole.  The effect is truly eerie as details from them begin to surface in Gerard's plot.  Because the author's debt to Henry James' THE TURN OF THE SCREW is obvious well before he makes reference to it, I wished he had just let the style and the allusions to speak for themselves instead of pointing them out.  His acknowledgment of Dickens' GREAT EXPECTATIONS is even less successful.  I overlooked these lapses simply because I could not willingly put this novel aside.<br />This is not Stephen King-type horror but something more elegant and literary.  This moody, stylish debut will capture your imagination for hours at a time.  Especially if you like creepiness, you'll love this tale of multiple hauntings and mystery.nting them out.  His acknowledgment of Dickens' GREAT EXPECTATIONS is even less successful.  I overlooked these lapses simply because I could not willingly put this novel aside.<br />This is not Stephen King-type horror but something more elegant and literary.  This moody, stylish debut will capture your imagination for hours at a time.   Especially if you like creepiness, you'll love this tale of multiple hauntings and mystery.	2004-06-23
624744:US	52801489	R2KLG7G2EKS05L	015101048X	549807243	The Circus in Winter	Books	5	26	26	N	N	The Circus as Legacy	Cathy Day's fine debut collection is comprised of varied stories linked through the people, both principals and descendents,  of the Great Porter Circus, a show that calls Lima, Indiana home during the off-season.  The author begins with &quot;Wallace Porter,&quot; a story that tells of how the original tragedy that gave birth to the Great Porter Circus.  From there, the stories branch out like a complicated family tree.  Many of the characters are haunted by the death of an impressive elephant, Caesar, who was shot to death after killing his owner, as they try to make sense of their individual lives.  One of the strongest stories, &quot;The Last Member of the Boela Tribe,&quot; reads as a condensed novel by tracing four generations and their connection to the circus and Caesar.  The final piece &quot;Circus People&quot;, told in the first-person voice of a thirty-something college professor who returns for her grandfather's funeral, pulls all the others together with a sweeping look at the legacy of the defunct circus.<br />The subtitle of this book, &quot;Fiction&quot;, is an apt one since &quot;Stories&quot; doesn't convey the connectedness of these stories.  Not a true novel, this book nonetheless ties together themes and events as well as characters.  Reading these stories back-to-back is essential to feeling their full emotional power.  The truly wonderful part of &quot;The Circus in Winter&quot; is the restraint Day exhibits in what could have been a sensationalist account of the sideshow freaks, clowns, managers, and trainers.  Instead, her prose is transparent, without flourish or lyricism, and she steers clear of sentimentality.  To add to the strong writing, black-and-white photographs of circus memorabilia and moments introduce each story, adding the feel of a documentary and a sense of nostalgia.<br />In this first collection, Cathy Day proves herself an adept storyteller.  I highly recommend it for readers of contemporary short fiction.	2004-06-18
624798:US	52801489	R1XGAS34ZPS1TL	0141439807	569473707	Mansfield Park (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	93	98	N	N	Not Austen's best, but still wonderful	After having read (and loved) Jane Austen's more famous novels EMMA and PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, I found MANSFIELD PARK a true delight.  Fanny Price is taken in by her wealthy aunt and uncle as charity to her more lowly-married mother, and is raised with her cousins with the idea she needs refinement and education to become as good a woman as her lesser social standing will allow.  Fanny is nervous and self-effacing, struggling with her new situation until her cousin Edmund makes her feel more at home.  Gradually, she feels like a part of the family, although the nagging sense of unworthiness always asserts itself.  As cousins marry and suitors appear, as scandals arise and emotions become known, Fanny finds herself in the equivalent of a Victorian soap opera.<br /><br />Fanny is undoubtedly one of Austen's less assertive characters, although she does mature into a woman who knows what she wants and will accept no less.  I loved Fanny and her honesty, the little girl who fears the stars in her eyes and still manages to grow up into a respectable - and respected - woman.  Her complexities are subtle and understated, making the reader work at times to understand her motivation, although anyone who has felt like an outcast even once, or anyone who respects honesty, will identify with her.  In true Austen fashion, the observations are witty, with pointed social analysis and cynicism dressed up in sly humor.  Fanny's aunts in particular are skewered, but no one, not even Fanny, is spared.<br /><br />Readers picking up this novel for the sheer delight of it will find it difficult to put down, as its language is accessible and free-flowing.  Students and book club members who must pay closer attention to themes and other literary issues may want to consider the role social standing and money play; the evolution of Fanny's character (and whether she is sympathetic); the techniques Austen uses to evoke humor; and the courtship protocol for Victorian England and how the characters both work within, and violate, the social rules.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book for teenagers and adults alike, especially those whose literary tastes run toward the classics.s both work within, and violate, the social rules.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book for teenagers and adults alike, especially those whose literary tastes run toward the classics.	2004-06-18
636070:US	52801489	RF58CPK9P3GL8	0375414541	836686168	Snakepit	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Decadence and Violence of Amin's Regime	This superb novel of the final days of Idi Amin's despotic regime in Uganda captures the inhumanity of absolute power in horrifying detail.  Bat Katanga, a graduate of Cambridge, returns to his homeland and a job at the Ministry of Power and Communication to seek his fortune.  The man who hires him, General Bazooka, has done so to undo him, for Bazooka is sensitive about his own lack of education as well as Bat's privileged southern roots and wants to see Bat - and the part of Uganda he represents - to fail. Bat, of course, has no clue; he is more interested in the expensive house and XJ10 that await him. Unfortunately for Bat, Bazooka is as brutal as Bat is naive.  When a third man, a white man named Ashes becomes Marshal Amin's confidante, Bat becomes a pawn in a battle of power-grubbing one-upmanship that puts everything he values in jeopardy.  As author Isegawa takes the reader into the minds of these men and their lovers, family, and those who surround them, a full, unsettling picture of tyranny emerges.  In this country ruled by murder and revenge, no one is safe.<br />Moses Isegawa writes with stunning clarity and force, faltering only slightly at the end with scenes that would be dramatic in any other novel but which are anticlimactic given what has occurred before.  His most amazing achievement is the descent into the minds of brutes to make them understandable even if they are wholly despicable.  The weaving of these multiple stories - Bat's, Bazooka's, and others - is seamless, as everything points toward the fall of Idi Amin's hedonistic and unforgiving regime.<br />I cannot recommend this novel highly enough. Its bold look at a country ruled by brutality adds a surprisingly human dimension to outright inhumanity.  Readers of Nuruddin Farah's LINKS, which details an intellectual in the midst of Somalia's civil war, will find many similarities, although the two novels belong distinctively to their respective authors and homelands.	2004-06-09
642808:US	52801489	R13JGFY24WZ1LZ	0374523932	276320707	Assembling California	Books	5	16	19	N	N	The Prose of Rock and Faultlines	With a precision of language and detail, John McPhee brilliantly evokes the terrain of earthquakes, desert, mountains, and coastline of California.  McPhee's guide through the geological history and present-day is Eldridge Moores, a geological professor at UC/Davis who knows the land of California perhaps better than anyone and who can &quot;see through the topography and see how the rocks lie in three dimensions beneath the topography.&quot;  McPhee is Moores' interpreter, a writer for whom descriptions and metaphor comes as easily as geology does for Moores.  Together, they take the reader through the diversity of land formations to form a complex understanding of all the forces that have been at work on this strip of land forming much of the west coast of the United States.<br />For those only marginally interested in geology and topography, this is a difficult read, though it is well worth sticking with it.  I myself read it in chunks, only a single chapter at a time, since any more tested my patience.  The writing is superb, however, and the information imparted is both instructional and fascinating.  When McPhee writes seemingly simple sentences such as, &quot;There were orchards of carobs, figs, and pistachios, and an understory of prickly pears,&quot; he paints an entire countryside in just a few strokes of language.  What he does with the drier subject matter of basalt and limestone is extraordinary.	2004-06-04
643849:US	52801489	R2ZW773A50Y8TK	0060514957	121138293	Killer Smile	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Not Killer Suspense	Lisa Scottoline's 2004 legal thriller is as much about history as it is about personal danger in pursuit of justice.  Mary DiNunzio is a young lawyer at the all-female firm of Rosato and Associates embarking on a pro bono case to sue the U.S. government for reparations on behalf of the estate an Italian-American who committed suicide in 1942 while at a internment camp in Montana.  Wading through documents, Mary uncovers a lead that suggests perhaps Amadeo's death was not as simple as previously thought.  Her persistent sleuthing puts her and others' lives in danger, and, as she gets closer to the truth, the stakes become obviously more modern day than historical.<br />After an awkward start and all-too-obvious false suspense, this novel picks up as Mary starts to understand the history of the Italian-American persecution during World War II and meets the characters both peripheral and pertinent to her case.  The strength of this novel lies not in the suspense (which is decent but not page-turning) but in the unfolding of history as it relates to the present; to Scottoline's credit, these historical details are revealed through the experiences and voices of her characters, not through preachy passages.  The characterizations are mostly memorable, although the characters that talk in all capital letters can be annoying, and the premise is a poignant one.  Scottoline uses the setting of Philadelphia well, making it impossible for this thriller to be set elsewhere.  Unfortunately, Scottoline's attempt to make history come alive in present-day Philadelphia results in forced plot turns and unneeded peril.  The final revelation and its implications, however, rescue the rest.<br />Despite some clumsy writing and a premise that is more historical and sociological than by-your-throat suspenseful, KILLER SMILE is an entertaining read.  Readers looking for high adrenaline levels will likely be disappointed, as will be those expecting a thorough look at American internment issues.  This legal thriller is a light mix of suspense and history, a pleasant enough way to spend a few hours.s.  This legal thriller is a light mix of suspense and history, a pleasant enough way to spend a few hours.	2004-06-03
644080:US	52801489	R4408JUSLF2HQ	1565844424	810529853	Pig Tales: A Novel of Lust and Transformation (New Press International Fiction)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Decadence at its most piggish:  3.5 stars	The debut novel by Marie Darrieussecq, who later published another short novel UNDERCURRENTS, is a fantasy about a part-time perfume employee who finds herself transformed bit by bit into a luxurious pig the men go wild for.  Her flesh grows rosy and firmly &quot;pneumatic,&quot; and the men cannot keep their greedy hands off her. She revels in their attention.  However, what makes her desirable at first eventually exacts its cost.  When she meets a werewolf lover who understands the complexity of being part human, part animal - and even, at times, all animal - she finds an odd redemption.<br />This book is less scandalous than its subtitle suggests, with the opening quote about a pig being slaughtered the most distressing moment of this short, allegorical story. Darrieussecq's sensual language of greed and lust carries this book beyond its thin premise, but ultimately, the novel ends up being not much more than an beautifully worded exercise in imagination.<br />Readers of contemporary French literature in translation will be keenly interested in this fantasy that took the country by storm in 1996.  It can easily be read in an afternoon, though understanding the psyche behind it is much more difficult.	2004-06-03
652489:US	52801489	R374V62VKRKRCZ	0375401466	160007841	Old School	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Literary Nostalgia	As a long-time fan of Tobias Wolff's short fiction, I opened this, his first novel, with much anticipation, and was quickly rewarded with an elegant, nostalgic tale of a prep school boy losing and then finding his literary footing.  The unnamed narrator is a scholarship student in 1960 at an East Coast boarding school where privilege and connections, especially literary ones, are givens.  Its Dean is rumored to have been a model for a Hemingway character, and its headmaster once studied with Frost.  Boys embrace the decorum of the upper class and churn out mannered submissions to the literary magazine that sound like parodies of their idols despite their honest attempts at originality.  In this serious atmosphere, senior boys compete every year for a private audience with a visiting writer.  Our narrator set his sights on the prize, hoping first for Robert Frost, then Ayn Rand, and finally, most passionately, Ernest Hemingway.<br />Wolff's prose flows flawlessly and often with subtle, sly humor.  The narrator's earnest assessment of his rivals is hilarious as he describes their work without understanding just how banal their adolescent efforts are.  Wolff's literary channeling is the unabashed highlight:  Frost's false humility and pretend awkwardness; Rand's self-absorbed and misinformed rant; Hemingway's heavily edited and largely incoherent interview.  Rand's appearance is by far the most brilliant as her anarchist views twist and turn on themselves, staying the course but getting more and more ludicrous with every word. The novel's final chapter can be read as the narrator's literary tribute to the decorum and warmth of his former school.<br />The narrator's voice is likeable and sympathetic, but unfortunately this novel fails at one of its own goals:  honesty.  As the narrator mentally chides Rand for creating unbelievable, superficial characters instead of real &quot;beleaguered&quot; people, Wolff fails to get to the guts of his own characters.  &quot;Beleaguered&quot; here is school boy stuff, and, while the narrator and his buddies grapple with real issues of integrity and diversity, the heart of their struggles are never fully confronted.  It's almost as though the gloss of upper class privilege, even in a scholarship boy, prevents a good look inside.  Despite this, OLD SCHOOL remains a very good novel from an exceptional writer.<br />This short novel is extremely accessible and a true delight for those who love literature.  Its nostalgic tone serves it well, as the times are evoked as lovingly as the literary greats.  OLD SCHOOL may be flawed, but it makes for an enjoyable, engrossing read.ered&quot; here is school boy stuff, and, while the narrator and his buddies grapple with real issues of integrity and diversity, the heart of their struggles are never fully confronted.   It's almost as though the gloss of upper class privilege, even in a scholarship boy, prevents a good look inside.  Despite this, OLD SCHOOL remains a very good novel from an exceptional writer.  <br />This short novel is extremely accessible and a true delight for those who love literature.  Its nostalgic tone serves it well, as the times are evoked as lovingly as the literary greats.  OLD SCHOOL may be flawed, but it makes for an enjoyable, engrossing read.	2004-05-27
659836:US	52801489	REQYQSYQ1FKOD	1573222631	795188046	Aloft	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A Novel Told with Wit and Extraordinary Insight	Chang-Rae Lee's third novel brilliantly evokes the angst of a man stunted by his own passivity.  Jerry Battle, by his own account, is not a fighter.  He flies his airplane in only the fairest weather, and usually does so solo since from that height, with no one making demands on him, &quot;everything looks perfect.&quot;  On the ground, though, his life is less than perfect.  He would rather let the woman he loves live with another man than express his true feelings for her.  He turns from the implications of his son's extravagance in running the family landscape business, and he prefers to keep his distance from his gruff father.  If Jerry sees the signs of imminent destruction, he keeps them to himself, for to bring them to the fore would be to require action on his part. In fact, the last time in his life when he took charge of his personal life, he pushed his wife and the mother of his children to her early death.  All in all, he'd rather not know about the crises embroiling his family.  However, when his adult daughter breaks some distressing news, all his carefully constructed aloofness begins to crumble.<br />With wit and insight, Lee has created not only a memorable character, but an unforgettable novel.  The interior nature of the first person narrative might disappoint readers looking for more pizzazz to the plot, but the intimacy created as Jerry leads the reader  through his thoughts - on everything from his young wife's death to his father's &quot;years of being a pigheaded domineering irascible bull in the china shop of life&quot; to his tender. confused feelings for his son and daughter  - makes up for the lack of action.  The emotional depth Lee provides is stunningly full.  Although the imagery can be heavy-handed with its references to flight and being grounded, Jerry's wry acknowledgment of these elements rescue them.  The decadence of contemporary culture and the melting pot of Long Island provide strong foils to this novel essentially about a fifty-nine year old man coming of age.<br />Admittedly, this excellent novel is not for everyone.  Its detailed examination of mundane but revelatory moments might get tedious for some.  However, for those who like the quiet realism and intimacy of a man's struggle against his own nature, this will be one of the best novels of 2004.ifty-nine year old man coming of age.<br />Admittedly, this excellent novel is not for everyone.  Its detailed examination of mundane but revelatory moments might get tedious for some.  However, for those who like the quiet realism and intimacy of a man's struggle against his own nature, this will be one of the best novels of 2004.	2004-05-21
659874:US	52801489	R2AUKHAB12ZI8G	1894345185	134891308	Japanese Baseball	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Stories of love and lost opportunities	W.P. Kinsella, best known as the author of SHOELESS JOE, the novel upon which &quot;Field of Dreams&quot; was based, has long been a critically acclaimed writer of short fiction.  In this collection, Kinsella has once again taken his passion for baseball into the heart of his stories, with wonderful results.  Sometimes, as in &quot;The Kowloon Caf&eacute;,&quot; baseball is only a peripheral player, but in others, it becomes its own character that shapes and defines those around it.<br />The most disappointing story is perhaps the title one, which follows a gaijin baseball player as he falls in love with the petite, traditional Japanese daughter of his manager, only to discover that love does indeed require a language.  Instead of taking the reader deep into this love story, the author skirts the larger issues he brings up.  But Kinsella includes some real gems as well.  &quot;The Arbiter&quot; is a first-rate story about an umpire who lives by exactitude, even at great personal cost.  The exchanges he has while on the field are some of the most hilarious baseball on-field conversations I've read, but the real strength of this story lies in the passion the protagonist has for his job.  &quot;Underestimating Lynn Johannsen&quot; tells of an eighteen year old high school student headed to pitch in college ball and his undying love for his other-side-of-the-tracks girlfriend.  Unlike in &quot;Japanese Baseball,&quot; here Kinsella reveals the complicated mess of young love and what to do with it, of dreams lost, of responsibility and passivity.  &quot;Wavelengths&quot; follows two minor leagues ballplayers at the end of their first season.  One failed miserably, and will do anything to improve.  The other did well, getting the attention of the management and fans, but refuses to play baseball ever again.  The story is about envy and friendship, and dreams lost to circumstance.<br />Anyone who loves baseball needs to read Kinsella's fiction.  He has a deep understanding not only of the game but of what it means to the people who love it.ot only of the game but of what it means to the people who love it.	2004-05-21
670439:US	52801489	RJY52W2MWB5D4	0789419432	705946182	The American Horticultural Society A-Z Encyclopedia of Garden Plants	Books	4	37	38	N	N	A Comprehensive Guide to Plants	This enormous reference book is exactly what an avid gardener needs - with entries covering perennials, annuals, woodland plants, trees, shrubs, and just about any other plants available both commercially and naturally. The individual entries contain information about cultivars, propagation, problem pests and diseases, as well as a concise description of the plant's appearance and growth requirements.  Most, though not all, include a small photograph of at least one specimen.  Plants are listed by their botanical names; if you do not know the genus, you'll have to look up the common name first in the index.<br />This volume also contains a visual glossary (inside the front cover), and excellent sections on general botany, the garden environment, and propagation techniques.  The only drawback to this otherwise excellent encyclopedia is the near-impossibility of identifying unknown plants.  The entries are not listed (or cross-listed) by type, requiring the gardener to page through nearly one thousand pages of pictures to identify, say, a particular woodland plant. And forget leaf identification since most photographs are taken from a distance to capture the whole of a species.<br />This would make an excellent gift for any gardener. It is hefty and comprehensive.  Especially for those interested in non-mainstream plants, this book is a must-have.	2004-05-13
673246:US	52801489	R2PEUAG55TMUXH	0375703764	383727435	House of Leaves	Books	4	148	171	N	Y	An experimental blast	This postmodern, typographically chaotic novel is a monstrous book, both in page numbers and ambition.  It is the literary equivalent of &quot;The Ring.&quot;  As we learn in the introduction, Johnny Truant, a tattoo parlor employee, has come into possession of a trunk full of bizarre scraps of paper once owned by an old blind man, Zampano, now dead.  The papers comprise an exploration of a cult film called &quot;The Navidson Record&quot; and its sub-films,  documentaries about an ever-expanding house that's bigger on the inside than it is on the outside and which consumes the lives of anyone who enters its dark hallways or watches the tapes.  Johnny becomes himself obsessed with Zampano's papers and, in turn, with the Navidson house.  He is haunted by the beast he smells and the descending madness he had no inclination to stop.  The book itself is the melding of Zampano's papers, Johnny's footnote digressions into his own life and its troubles, and the debate among academics as they struggle to make sense of a film that probably never existed.  The result is a dark, wild, often hilarious, sometimes excruciatingly boring foray into the meaning of home, family, love, and self.<br />The structure of the novel is innovative, with Johnny Truant's story unfolding in footnotes  and in the appendices, while Zampano describes the film and the academics bicker over its meaning in the body.  The most riveting narrative thread in this novel is of Navidson's and others' descents into the smooth walled, dark cavern of the mysterious hallway.  The consequences on Navidson's marriage and on those he loves are devastating, and the reader is swept into both the horror and the need for hope.  Johnny's story is less compelling, especially as the house fades into the background and his story takes over.  The academic over-analysis is tons of fun - as long as you have the patience to get over the dryness to find the kernel it has been working toward.  For example, early in the book, Danielewski (in the writings of Zampano) provides a lengthy academic discussion of the myth of Echo and its scientific and literary significance, only to derail it with a Johnny Truant footnote telling the reader that &quot;Frankly I'd of rec'd a quick skip past the whole echo ramble were it not for those six lines . . .&quot;<br />Even more bizarre than the telling of Truant's tale in footnotes is the typographical methods used to visually evoke the house in the Navidson Record.  The words become their own labyrinth, with &quot;hallways&quot; of text enclosed in blue boxes; they sometimes inhabit corners only, or skip up and down the pages, one or two words at a time.  When the characters don't know which way is up, the reader is twisting and turning the physical book to read upside down and sideways.  You have to see the book to fully appreciate the visual hijinks Danielewski uses.  It can take a long time to read certain sections, only to find that you can flip through several pages with just a glance at each.<br />Despite the suspenseful plot, HOUSE OF LEAVES is anything but a quick read.  Its satisfaction is derived more from its individual parts than as a whole since it ends, to paraphrase T. S. Eliot, not with a bang but a whimper.  I recommend this for patient readers and for those who delight in experimental turns in fiction.Danielewski (in the writings of Zampano) provides a lengthy academic discussion of the myth of Echo and its scientific and literary significance, only to derail it with a Johnny Truant footnote telling the reader that &quot;Frankly I'd of rec'd a quick skip past the whole echo ramble were it not for those six lines . . .&quot;<br />Even more bizarre than the telling of Truant's tale in footnotes is the typographical methods used to visually evoke the house in the Navidson Record.  The words become their own labyrinth, with &quot;hallways&quot; of text enclosed in blue boxes; they sometimes inhabit corners only, or skip up and down the pages, one or two words at a time.  When the characters don't know which way is up, the reader is twisting and turning the physical book to read upside down and sideways.  You have to see the book to fully appreciate the visual hijinks Danielewski uses.  It can take a long time to read certain sections, only to find that you can flip through several pages with just a glance at each.<br />Despite the suspenseful plot, HOUSE OF LEAVES is anything but a quick read.  Its satisfaction is derived more from its individual parts than as a whole since it ends, to paraphrase T. S. Eliot, not with a bang but a whimper.  I recommend this for patient readers and for those who delight in experimental turns in fiction.	2004-05-10
682022:US	52801489	R1FVI02FPXGNFT	0802150616	472087960	A Personal Matter	Books	5	79	81	N	N	A Harrowing Tale About Personal Choices	Nobel prize-winning novelist Kenzaburo Oe's best known book is a remarkable and intimate journey through the maze of ethics, fatherhood, and responsibility.  The protagonist Bird is a dreamer; he dreams of going to Africa, of undemanding love, of a perfect son - none of which are within his grasp.  His child is born with a herniated brain, and his wife's obstetrician is already talking excitedly about an autopsy as the baby, a boy, continues to live.  This stubborn will to live, and Bird's responsibility to decide his son's fate, drives Bird deep into denial.  If he doesn't do anything, then the baby might die naturally, and Bird will be free of the deformity that threatens to reflect ill on him as a man and husband.  But his wife wants their child to survive; she wants to name him, to love him.  And Bird begins to question his first inclinations.  His touching relationship with his mistress Himiko only reinforces his sense of inadequacy and cowardice - until, that is, he begins to accept life as it is.<br />This stark, haunting novel leaves the reader with a deep sense of both loss and hope, although the latter is more, in Bird's mind, &quot;forbearance.&quot;  Oe's honest treatment of this difficult subject matter is sensitive and skilled, understated in a way that emphasizes the magnitude of what Bird faces. John Nathan's translation provides smooth, beautifully-rendered prose.<br />The subject matter may be too depressing for some readers but should appeal to those interested in quality literature. The issues Oe tackles are significant, and his characters, deeply human.  A PERSONAL MATTER is an unforgettable novel not to be missed.	2004-05-03
684218:US	52801489	R2F7EZ8QTMXLJD	0374527342	451982986	At the Bottom of the River	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Love, sadness, and growing up in the Caribbean	Jamaica Kincaid's AT THE BOTTOM OF THE RIVER is a study of voice and language that first brought the author recognition beyond the pages of literary journals. These ten stories, all but the last extremely short, are set in an intense Caribbean landscape where a girl comes of age in the shadow of her mother; they are hallucinatory, tense, and indirect, leaving much for the reader to interpret.  For example, the first story, &quot;Girl&quot;, is a monologue spoken by the mother giving advice (&quot;this is how you set a table for dinner&quot;) interspersed with comments degrading the daughter.  The two italicized, one-sentence responses from the daughter speak volumes about this complicated relationship. &quot;What I Have Been Doing Lately&quot; is a dream-like narrative that lists what the narrator is (probably not) doing and, in the process, illustrates the emotional state of someone so sad that she just wants to lie in bed.  &quot;At the Bottom of the River&quot;, the final, longest, and most traditional of the stories, implies the past and future of the narrator through visions seen &quot;at the bottom of the river.&quot;<br />Kincaid's style combines the effect of the simple but perfect word with the lilt of Caribbean rhythms.  On the surface, these stories are not difficult to read, but they can be challenging to understand for the reader accustomed to more traditional methods of storytelling.  The collection is about as short as a book can get, and so the stories can be read in one sitting, back to back, although their absorption can take much longer.	2004-05-02
688906:US	52801489	RGKJ9586R8I7F	0446670111	573126810	Einstein's Dreams	Books	3	6	11	N	Y	An Exercise, Not Much More	Alan Lightman's slight book is more of a writing exercise than a novel.  Einstein's Dreams takes the reader on a voyage of vignettes that illustrate the implications of Einstein's Theory of Relativity, (fictively) dreamed by the great physicist himself when he was just a patent clerk still figuring out his most famous theory.  The dream snippets play on our preconceived notions of time and space.  Here, people can travel backward in time, find themselves caught in an endless loop, experience the suspension of time and therefore motion.  Scenes unfold in ways that we believe are physically impossible but which, given Einstein's theory, are not.  The characters are barely human, as they exist solely for effect.  There is no plot, no development, no lasting impact because of the distortion of time.  The sole reason for reading this is Lightman's lyrical and graceful language, which perhaps puts these glimpses more in the realm of the prose poem than fiction.  It is this beauty of phrasing that earns this book an extra star.<br />To compare Lightman to Borges and Calvino is an insult to those great writers.  Lightman comes across in his first book as a dabbler, someone with a talent for words and images, a scientist, a thinker, but, alas, not a fiction writer.	2004-04-28
695713:US	52801489	R3SBNRUFC81TKZ	1413406114	444977471	Walk-On	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	A Rousing Sports Fantasy:  4.5 stars	In his second novel, D. Mikels has once again blended realism with the supernatural, but this time he has succeeded admirably in creating a breathlessly paced feel-good story that readers won't be able to put down.  Mike Wilson is a thirty-something insurance salesman with fierce ambition, intelligence, and an undying love for the game of football.  Not a natural athlete, in high school Mike was always relegated to the bench despite his superior understanding and mental toughness.  His younger cousin Justin has all the physical tools Mike ever wanted; Justin is a natural athlete with no appreciation of his gift and no discipline.  Instead, Justin envies the close-knit family life Mike has since his own is shattered by addiction and tragedy.  When a freak thunderstorm grants their desperate wishes, the novel begins in earnest.  After a summer of intense conditioning readies, Justin presents himself at Oklahoma University as football walk-on while Mike remains at home, strangely passive and inept.<br />Part rousing sports drama, part supernatural what-if, Mikel's novel blends unlikely events to take the reader through the exhilarating college football season.  The writing is uniformly excellent and is especially noteworthy for its incorporation of gritty details.  The supernatural, while playing a pivotal role in the plot, is less a force than the high emotions the author evokes. Once the reader reconciles the deus ex machina with the no-nonsense style, the novel sprints forward.  Unfortunately, the relationship between the two men barely continues beyond the thunderstorm, and Mikels misses his chance at infusing his tale with deeper significance and higher stakes.  Likewise, the supporting characters are not as well-drawn as Mikels is obviously capable of.  Still, in a book that has bestseller potential, as this one does, sacrifices have to be made in the interest of pacing and plot.<br />A major publisher would do well to pick up this X-Libris title and give it a wider distribution and readership.  Mikels is talented both as a writer and as a storyteller.  I highly recommend this title for sports fans and readers of commercial fiction.wider distribution and readership.  Mikels is talented both as a writer and as a storyteller.  I highly recommend this title for sports fans and readers of commercial fiction.	2004-04-22
698886:US	52801489	R1CVO4B4J58FFE	0425195309	671180212	Putt to Death (Golf Lover's Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A strong third mystery in the series	Roberta Isleib's PUTT TO DEATH, the third golf-lover's mystery after SIX STROKES UNDER and A BURIED LIE, follows the further adventures of Cassie Burdette.  Cassie has taken a position as &quot;touring pro&quot; at a Connecticut private club to supplement her falling income as she struggles with her professional golf game.  Less than twenty-four hours after she begins work, she discovers the body of one of the club's esteemed members floating in a water hazard.  One murder sets the club on edge, but, when a second body is discovered, the members and staff fear for their safety.  Naturally, our heroine Cassie is more curious than afraid, and, despite complicated personal issues that threaten to distract her, she buckles down to solve the mystery of the deaths.<br />Isleib's pacing is genre-smooth - never rushed, never bogged down with unnecessary detail.  Cassie has become even more likable in this newest addition to the series as her emotional baggage begins to weigh more than her golf bags.  She is a gutsy, human character.  The returning characters from previous titles - Mike, Joe, Laura - are equally memorable.  Unfortunately, the characters specific to this mystery are less clearly drawn; they are identified primarily by name and position and less by who they are as people. With the exception of Cassie's roommate Megan and club member Elizabeth, the characters blend into one another, thus making it difficult for the reader to grasp the role each plays.<br />Although the resolution requires far too much explanation than was adequately prepared for, the ride to get there is so much fun that it hardly matters.  I couldn't put this book down.  Easy to read and equally full of tense moments, this mystery makes great vacation or weekend reading.  You don't need to read Isleib's previous efforts to enjoy this one, although it can't hurt.	2004-04-20
700095:US	52801489	R3MIX4LKKKT5KL	0425149625	638763205	The Grass Dancer	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Powerful, lyrical, moving	Susan Power's THE GRASS DANCER, although billed as a novel, is a series of tightly bound stories centered around the thematic core of a Sioux myth. Separately, these stories, many of which have been previously published in high-quality magazines such as The Atlantic and The Paris Review, are excellent, but read as a whole, one after the other, they form a powerful whole - a novel, if you will. The world Ms. Power creates it at once current and ancient, with legends and tales of ancestors so entwined with the present day that the Native American characters seem less like individuals and more like highlighted segments on a multi-branched and infinitely continuing time line.  But that is not to say that Ms. Power creates simple characters.  Her people are complex and often troubled, struggling with the magic that swirls around them.<br /><br />The individual stories tell the larger one of Native Americans, in particular the Sioux, and their battles, both physical and metaphysical, with the white men who invaded their land.  This is not a historical novel, however, but rather a lyrically psychological one, where myth becomes fact.  The pivotal legend that embraces all the characters in The Grass Dancer is the one of Red Dress, a Sioux woman with breath the scent of plums and a spirit that guides a long line of women to their destinies, both tragic and exhilarating.  Charlene, a direct descendent from Red Dress, is in love with Harley, a descendent of Red Dress's husband Ghost Horse.  But Harley keeps in his heart the spirit of another woman.  Charlene's grandmother, Mercury, uses Red Dress's magic to control men and to wrest Charlene from her mother.  Lydia, who is mute by choice, survives her husband and son, dead because of her anger with the magic of Red Dress.  The magic in this novel has such force that when Red Dress finally tells her own story, we cannot wait to see what kind of mortal she was that gave rise to such spiritual power.  Sadly, the Red Dress story is the weakest of the book.  Her motivation to lure white men to their deaths, ultimately bringing on her own, seems flimsy.  However, Red Dress as a spirit has become so poignant through the other stories that her final appearance in the novel is perhaps one of the most moving passages.<br /><br />Susan Power is an extraordinarily gifted writer with a taste for language that makes a reader want to linger over her words.  Her imagination is so precise that it is difficult to accept that her characters do not exist beyond the pages.he weakest of the book.  Her motivation to lure white men to their deaths, ultimately bringing on her own, seems flimsy.  However, Red Dress as a spirit has become so poignant through the other stories that her final appearance in the novel is perhaps one of the most moving passages.  <BR> <BR>Susan Power is an extraordinarily gifted writer with a taste for language that makes a reader want to linger over her words.  Her imagination is so precise that it is difficult to accept that her characters do not exist beyond the pages.	2004-04-19
704146:US	52801489	RL3YH7K06N0BL	0809325055	85187740	Bottom of the Ninth: Great Contemporary Baseball Short Stories (Writing Baseball)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fiction and Baseball - A Perfect Pairing	In this marvelous anthology of short stories about baseball, editor John McNally has assembled the fiction of contemporary writers, from Patricia Highsmith to Andr&eacute; Dubus to Stuart Dybek, who share a fascination with the game and its influence on those who play it. Because these writers have different readerships and styles, these thematically grouped stories never get tiring.  Instead, each one takes the reader deeper into the love of the game.  The result is an exhilarating read for those who love both high-quality fiction and baseball.<br />Singling out individual stories from the rest is not an easy task since all are deserving of mention.  Dubus's &quot;After the Game&quot; is about a major league shortstop from the Dominican Republic who inexplicably has a breakdown after a winning game.  This story contrasts powerfully with David Jauss's &quot;The Bigs&quot;, also about a player from the Dominican Republic, a minor leaguer who blows his chance at major league play because he cannot reconcile his ambition with what it has cost.  Many of these stories are about missed chances and the heartbreak of never reaching the big leagues. Cris Mazza's brutal &quot;Caught&quot; follows a former minor league catcher haunted by his last moment as a professional player as he is picked up by a gay man in a bar.  Leslie Pietrzyk shows the desperation of a minor leaguer's wife who will do anything to give her husband a chance at the show on his thirtieth birthday.  Dybek's &quot;Death of the Right Fielder&quot; is an surreal story about a nameless right fielder who dies mysteriously - and is promptly buried -  in his position.  The more traditional &quot;The Barbarians&quot; by Highsmith explores the violence amateur ballplayers elicit in a painter who wants nothing more than to beautify &quot;something that was, essentially, unbeautifiable.&quot;  We even get a humanizing story about an umpire by Kurt Rheinheimer.  In these nineteen stories, not a single one misses.<br />I highly recommend this book to all who love baseball and literature.  Especially as the season gets underway, I can't think of a better way to spend time between televised games.highly recommend this book to all who love baseball and literature.  Especially as the season gets underway, I can't think of a better way to spend time between televised games.	2004-04-16
705302:US	52801489	RX79KXIEP3H8L	1573222658	102456546	Links	Books	5	23	23	N	N	The Shifting Terrain of a Civil War	In LINKS, a novel set in Somalia after the U.S. &quot;peacekeeping&quot; invasion, Nuruddin Farah has created a powerful psychological landscape of a people torn by civil war.  Jeebleh arrives via airplane in Mogadiscio and at once witnesses the senseless murder of a ten year old German boy.  When he learns that the teenagers who shot the boy kill for sport, he realizes his beloved country has sunk further than he had imagined.  This Somalia is not a land of logic, not one of law and order. Yet, Jeebleh, once a political prisoner, has returned to his homeland for reasons which aren't readily apparent and which put his life in danger.  His childhood friends, half-brothers who were raised by Jeebleh's mother as her own sons, oppose each other, thus bringing the precarious nature of this civil war deep into Jeebleh's personal life.  Bile is Jeebleh's dear friend, a pacifist, medical doctor, and idealist who runs a refuge for those displaced by the war; Bile has suffered greatly during a lengthy imprisonment and still bears the scars.  Caloosha, Bile's older half brother, is a war lord, torturer, and former captor of both Jeebleh and Bile.  Caloosha is now suspected of being behind the kidnapping of Bile's charmed and beloved niece Raasta and her playmate.  Raasta, who is seen as a miracle child and peacemaker, has become a symbol of hope for many, and her recovery has implications not only for those who love her but for Somalia as a whole.<br />In Farah's Somalia, no one can be trusted.  Suspicions run so deep that an enemy can be a temporary savior and a friend can endanger one's life.  It is a land scarred by gunshot and desperate poverty.  Despite its harrowing decline, Farah's deep affection for his homeland radiates in his descriptions.  His sorrow for what has happened resonates in every word.  As Jeebleh makes his way through the maze of what's left, we are shown the many sides of modern Somalia and the repercussions of its division.<br />This spectacular novel, despite its emotional force, does have its weaknesses, though they are minor compared to the rewards.  Farah's detailed description of Jeebleh's dreams, which alternate between the cryptic and the heavy-handed,  add little to the real-life nightmare before him.  And the writing (English is not Farah's native language) is occasionally awkward and peppered with similes such as &quot;Bile's features had roughened at the edges, like frozen butter exposed to sudden heat&quot; and &quot;the omelette, which was as cold as a morgue.&quot;  In these instances, Farah seems to be working too hard to impress - and failing at it - when his honest, direct style does so much more to win over the reader.  This straightforward storytelling,  used to describe a world that is everything but straightforward, brilliantly evokes the frightening chaos.<br />LINKS is an important literary achievement that deserves to be widely read.  Farah's honesty and keen eye have brought a little-understood country and its culture into sharp focus.  Unlike the characters he portrays, Farah can be trusted, for his guidance through the labyrinth of a destroyed Somalia is both authoritative and loving.despite its emotional force, does have its weaknesses, though they are minor compared to the rewards.  Farah's detailed description of Jeebleh's dreams, which alternate between the cryptic and the heavy-handed,  add little to the real-life nightmare before him.  And the writing (English is not Farah's native language) is occasionally awkward and peppered with similes such as &quot;Bile's features had roughened at the edges, like frozen butter exposed to sudden heat&quot; and &quot;the omelette, which was as cold as a morgue.&quot;  In these instances, Farah seems to be working too hard to impress - and failing at it - when his honest, direct style does so much more to win over the reader.  This straightforward storytelling,  used to describe a world that is everything but straightforward, brilliantly evokes the frightening chaos.<br />LINKS is an important literary achievement that deserves to be widely read.  Farah's honesty and keen eye have brought a little-understood country and its culture into sharp focus.  Unlike the characters he portrays, Farah can be trusted, for his guidance through the labyrinth of a destroyed Somalia is both authoritative and loving.	2004-04-15
716371:US	52801489	R7WC7D0Q8QLC8	4770016905	941765278	Beyond the Curve (Modern Japanese Writers Series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Beyond realism	This collection of short stories, translated from the Japanese by Juliet Winters Carpenter, is a surreal foray into the illogical and improbable.  Kobo Abe is the kind of writer who reminds one of other writers.  His Kafkaesque &quot;An Irrelevant Death&quot; places an unexplained corpse in the apartment of A- who must then decide how to dispose of it without suspicion.  In another story that recalls Kafka, &quot;Dendrocacalia,&quot; a man named Common experiences an unexpected metamorphosis into a rare and sought-after plant.  But not all stories evoke Kafka.  &quot;The Life of a Poet&quot; embraces the lyrical mythology of Latin American magic realism as a crone is accidentally made into thread and a deadly snow falls made of &quot;crystalline dreams, souls, and desires.&quot;  Lewis Carroll's convoluted logic surfaces in &quot;The Bet&quot; when an architect for a particular demanding advertising company discovers a world of small doors, head-shaking conversations, and stairs that lead not to an expected succession of floors but instead to places governed by a red light and adages.  The bizarre building teaches the architect the logic of the illogical.  When he designs &quot;the path of the president's office as a mathematical function of the System,&quot; he resolves the story in an entirely fitting way.<br />Despite the derivative feel to these stories, they are distinctly Abe's.  His Japanese sensibilities give them a different twist, for while Kafka chose to change his character into a cockroach, Abe chooses instead to transform his bewildered character into a scrubby plant that grows at high altitudes and which would be quite at home in a government funded hothouse.  The author's confidence in the wildness of his imagination gives these stories an authority of voice, allowing for the needed suspension of disbelief. Abe's fictional realm is a difficult one to leave.<br />It took me a couple of stories to fully appreciate Abe's talents, but I'm glad I continued reading.  Readers of Japanese and international fiction should most definitely take a look at Abe's work.  Don't expect realism - or anything close to it - because Kobo Abe's fiction exists on another plane.d reading.  Readers of Japanese and international fiction should most definitely take a look at Abe's work.  Don't expect realism - or anything close to it - because Kobo Abe's fiction exists on another plane.	2004-04-07
725753:US	52801489	R46ZD8829O3LH	0380731851	733601761	Mystic River	Books	4	36	40	N	Y	4 1/2 stars for a thriller with real substance	In transparent prose that carries this page-turner from first line to last, Dennis Lehane spins a mesmerizing story about three childhood friends who grow apart because of changing economics and an incident that occurred in 1975.  When a car stops as the eleven year olds brawl in the street, two men get out to break up the fight.  Because of a single lie, one boy gets into the car, leaving the other two free and safe on the street.  The abduction leaves scars on all three boys, and they carry their separate wounds with them into adulthood.  When Jimmy's beloved teenage daughter Katie is found brutally murdered,  they are unexpectedly reunited.  As with all good murder mysteries, nothing is simple, and every act is suspect.<br />Once I started reading this novel, I didn't want to put it down.  The plot has terrific momentum, and the writing is tightly wound.  The most refreshing element in this book is Lehane's characterizations which mark even the most admirable characters with lapses of ethics and the most despicable with redeeming traits.  The complexities allow for shifting reader loyalties, thereby giving Lehane a greater range in navigating in a less-than-straight path to the truth.  Lehane's theme of karma - of one act leading to another and yet another until a misdeed is repaid - is skillfully developed and provides a strong connection to seemingly unrelated events, thus making sense out of the senseless.  What these boys-turned-men are capable of, and what they deserve, becomes the force behind the plot.<br />MYSTIC RIVER is a well-written, thoughtfully evoked murder mystery that is grounded in moral ambiguities.  The complexities of character and issues give a heft to this novel despite its genre's traditional emphasis of plot over everything else.  Lehane's skilled but undemanding style makes this novel great weekend or vacation reading.  Don't start it at bedtime unless you want to be reading late into the night.	2004-03-30
725772:US	52801489	R31R576IAQS6M0	0060589272	571626403	Eleven Minutes: A Novel	Books	4	89	98	N	N	An exploration of sex, love, and desire	Paulo Coelho's title refers to what his protagonist Maria discovers about the sexual act:  it takes only eleven minutes on average to complete and yet people are obsessed with it.  The novel begins in Brazil, where young Maria suffers her first unrequited loves and determines that she will never bare her heart again.  When an accidental meeting on a Rio beach offers Maria an Swiss adventure, she leaves her Brazilian life behind.  Once in Geneva, she becomes a prostitute by night and a consumer of books and facts by day.  What Maria learns as she explores both the darkest and the most mundane recesses of desire seems to confirm what she has believed all along, that eleven minutes of pleasure is hardly worth the effort.  However, when she meets two extraordinarily different gentlemen who take her to unexpected places within herself, the truth of these eleven minutes is challenged.<br />The novel begins like a fairy tale - &quot;Once upon a time, there was a prostitute named Maria&quot; - and this opening sentence unfortunately sets a cold, impersonal tone that takes Coelho several chapters to overcome.  Although the language retains this removed simplicity throughout, Maria's predicament gradually engages the reader as Maria takes a more active and personal role in the story.  Maria, it is clear, is not an &quot;average&quot; prostitute - if there can be such a person - and her unique perspective forms the soul of ELEVEN MINUTES.  Her ambition and curiosity distinguish her from not only her colleagues but from everyone else in Geneva.<br />At times the intellectual discussions of desire and love can get tedious, as Coelho is at his best in the midst of scenes and description, but overall this novel is a lively &quot;fairy tale&quot; with a prostitute as its unlikely heroine.  As Coelho notes in his Afterword, the thematic thrust of the novel came to him well before the protagonist and her story, and it shows.  Readers who want a strong story and intimate characterization should look elsewhere, since Maria's adventures and discoveries are carefully folded into the novel's concept. Others, though, will find Coelho's newest novel an intriguing exploration of not only those important eleven minutes but also everything that leads up to them.ation should look elsewhere, since Maria's adventures and discoveries are carefully folded into the novel's concept. Others, though, will find Coelho's newest novel an intriguing exploration of not only those important eleven minutes but also everything that leads up to them.	2004-03-30
732469:US	52801489	R39NGBE2RM8LIH	039915163X	825332905	The Floodmakers	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Play's the Thing	Myl&egrave;ne Dressler's third novel (after THE MEDUSA TREE and THE DEADWOOD BEETLE) is a departure book.  Unlike her first two, THE FLOODMAKERS is less concerned with the lyricism of introspection than with the dynamics of character and dialogue, and how they reveal the innermost workings of a family.  Narrator Harry Buelle, a gay playwright who seems destined to live in the shadow of his famous playwright father, arrives at the family's Texas beach house at the request of his stepmother, Jean.  His father Dee is suffering from heart failure, and has decided to halt all medication in a calculated move to clear his mind and face his imminent death.  Rebellious sister Sarah and her wide-eyed Slavic husband Paul are also invited.  There, hovering around a rescued brown booby with a broken foot and colliding with one another, the Buelle family and their darkest, most defining moments are revealed.<br />After a somewhat confusing start, this novel gets stronger with every page.  The narrative, which is meant to have the feel of a play, reads like a cross between Tennessee Williams and Neil Simon, with melodrama and comedy mixed with a deeper sense of loss.  Certain moments happen &quot;off-stage&quot; (as when Jean disappears into the bathroom and the reader &quot;hears&quot; an unexplained ruckus within) while others seem carefully orchestrated to show the awkward relationships this family fosters.  Even the dialogue comes across as written for the stage.  While the author's adherence to the idea of novel as play occasionally can be distancing, Dressler brings the reader closer through the use of Harry's first-person narration and flashbacks. The true nature of this creative, dysfunctional family is exposed through their interactions, and that, more than anything, is the strength of this novel.<br />Dressler fans will certainly want to read her latest, as will readers intrigued by the exploration of family dynamics.  Readers of literary fiction who like character-driven novels and a gentle mix of humor and drama will also find much to admire.n novels and a gentle mix of humor and drama will also find much to admire.	2004-03-25
735067:US	52801489	R1YSF8CQ2ULVHF	0060578564	405736572	The Floating Book: A Novel of Venice	Books	3	13	13	N	N	A Venetian labyrinth: 3 1/2 stars	Like many historical fiction debuts, Michelle Lovric's The Floating Book suffers from too many facts at the expense of storytelling.  Most of the novel takes place in Venice just after the invention of movable type, although each section is framed by correspondence from the Roman poet Catullus to his brother in 63 B.C.  Lovric's Venice can be deliciously evil and romantic at once, with murky water that sometimes gives up dead babies and with doors that hide intense passion and curses.  Her characters are Venetians and foreigners alike:  Sosia, a Serb Jew who seduces men of every class as long as they are Venetians; her husband Rabino, a respected doctor who embraces practical medicine over superstition; Wendelin von Speyer, a German entrepreneur and typesetter; Wendelin's Venetian wife Lussi&egrave;ta who loves him despite, or perhaps because of, his foreignness; Bruno, Wendelin's editor and a man at the mercy of Sosia's indifference; and many others.  Catullus and his poetry hover over all as his poetic undying love for his cruel lover (mirrored in the relationship between Bruno and Sosia) becomes the publishing venture the main characters eagerly await.  The problem is, with so many characters and so many details obviously drawn from thorough research, nothing gets fully realized.  The relationship between Wendelin and his wife shows the most promise, but even that gets bogged down by lengthy explanatory passages.  Many of the characters are wooden and seem to exist solely for the purpose of exposing a side of Venice during the time period.  The best characters, though - Bruno, Wendelin, Lussi&egrave;ta - made me wish Lovric had concentrated almost exclusively on them.  As a character, Sosia holds the greatest promise of being memorable, but Lovric never fully enters her heart, instead leaving her motives for the end when the reader has already lost sympathy.<br />Despite its flaws, The Floating Book has much to offer.  Although the writing alternates between beautifully evocative and stilted/overwritten, the best sections are engrossing and well-paced.  The middle of the book is the slowest, and readers might be tempted to skip over whole sections to get to the real stories of interest.  But to do so would compromise the resolution, which draws its threads from all the plots.  The author has clearly fallen in love with the idea of fifteenth century Venice, and her passion is contagious.  But the setting as character is simply not dynamic enough to carry the weight of an entire novel.<br />I give this novel three and a half stars, an average of the best sections and the worst.  Avid readers of historical fiction might find this novel more compelling than I did, especially if they relish an emphasis on history over story.cative and stilted/overwritten, the best sections are engrossing and well-paced.  The middle of the book is the slowest, and readers might be tempted to skip over whole sections to get to the real stories of interest.  But to do so would compromise the resolution, which draws its threads from all the plots.  The author has clearly fallen in love with the idea of fifteenth century Venice, and her passion is contagious.  But the setting as character is simply not dynamic enough to carry the weight of an entire novel.<br />I give this novel three and a half stars, an average of the best sections and the worst.  Avid readers of historical fiction might find this novel more compelling than I did, especially if they relish an emphasis on history over story.	2004-03-23
747745:US	52801489	R32MJ97DMYUW6B	0312304099	74763689	The Middle of the Night	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	The debut of an exciting new voice	Each of the stories in Daniel Stolar's debut collection has the feel of a novel.  Their unfolding is luxuriously slow, with the scope of each reaching beyond a single moment in a character's life and instead encompassing the meaning of decades.  The first story &quot;Jack Landers Is My Friend,&quot; is thirty-four pages long; it explores the complex friendship between Jack and Kara that began in high school and continues when they are both in their thirties.  Issues of class, adolescence, loyalty, unrequited love, and the attitude of privilege infuse this story with conflict and life.  &quot;Crossing Over&quot; deals with the artificial nature of fraternity friendship and racial identification as the white Jewish narrator pledges at an all-black fraternity because that's where he feels most comfortable.  &quot;Mourning&quot; examines the roles inherent in a friendship as popular, privileged Tim brings Matthew out of mourning for his mother during their senior year at Harvard.  The relationship that ensues becomes both Matthew's need and his disillusionment.  &quot;Second Son&quot; is told through the voice of a seventy year old man who has a sixteen year old &quot;second son&quot; after a previous marriage.  When his wife Lillian asks that he teach his son how to drive,  he discovers that fatherhood does not need to be the same from child to child.<br />Most of the stories are set in St. Louis and Boston, with recurrent themes of black/white relations, the upper class's sense of entitlement and the difficulty of breaking into their clique, the imbalance of friendships and love, and liberalism v. pragmatism.  Stolar's protagonists are outsiders living on the fringes of their social/family group.  The inner circle, while often coveted, always seems beyond their grasp.  Even in the case of &quot;Second Son,&quot; a story that deals with more domestic issues, the narrator is never sure that he can step into the role expected of him.  These characters' sense of inadequacy in the context of their longing gives these stories emotional power.<br />The confidence of the writing in THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT is astonishing.  Stolar writes like a veteran, with a voice that never wavers and insights that surface from deep within the stories.  Most of the eight stories in this collection are substantial, both in length and in ambition.  They are traditionally told, with a narrative progression that often is, more or less, linear.<br />Readers of short stories should find much to admire in this new author's collection.  I highly recommend it especially for readers seeking new voices in fiction.y in the context of their longing gives these stories emotional power.<br />The confidence of the writing in THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT is astonishing.  Stolar writes like a veteran, with a voice that never wavers and insights that surface from deep within the stories.  Most of the eight stories in this collection are substantial, both in length and in ambition.  They are traditionally told, with a narrative progression that often is, more or less, linear.  <br />Readers of short stories should find much to admire in this new author's collection.  I highly recommend it especially for readers seeking new voices in fiction.	2004-03-13
759623:US	52801489	R1OX745DUK9VC5	1579620906	658118600	Someplace Like This	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Fragile Nature of Love	Poet Ren&eacute;e Ashley's debut novel explores the delicate anatomy of a marriage. Thirty-seven year old Dore is wounded and unsure, almost muted in her reactions to the outer world, as she and her husband Evan arrive at their island house, a place now furnished as a refuge for Dore.  The two have recently reconciled after a separation, and we witness their fleeting stabs at finding common ground.  When Evan returns to the city for his job, Dore is left alone among birds and tourists.  She is ravenous, savoring shrimp scampi, spinach salad, oranges, breads, cheese, and chocolate-chocolate chip ice cream as though trying to fill the emptiness inside her left by a grief Evan can never share.  With biting and often hilarious wit, Dore finds her slow way back from loss and uncertainty.<br />Not surprisingly, Ashley's prose is stunningly beautiful, with an elegance infused with emotion.  Her eye for detail, in both description and characterization, makes this novel a true delight to read.  Dore is lovable through and through, a woman who intuitively knows what counts and what doesn't, who knows how to make fun of herself, who is generous and caring.  Dore's affection for the other characters is contagious, and the reader won't want to let them go when the novel ends.<br />I highly recommended this slender novel for readers of literary fiction.  Its lyrical style and introspection may not be right for some, but others will be delighted to discover this gem.	2004-03-04
762713:US	52801489	R1901GSTDIQIA2	0972429530	835516174	Ira Foxglove	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Inventions of the Heart	This slender book, published  posthumously after the author's death in 1999, is an excellent example of a small press taking on a worthy publishing venture despite the financial risks.  IRA FOXGLOVE is a unpretentious and emotional story about a man who appears to have lost it all:  his wife, his daughter, his work, and his health.  A heart attack survivor, Ira lies around much of the day in his Massachusetts home worrying about the pain in his chest and the reasons his wife Portia abandoned him for London.  Their daughter Henley, who studies mime in Paris, seems just as distant.  But Ira is also an inventor, a man of ideas whose demos always seem to fall short of his hopes, and so he embarks for Europe on borrowed money and transportation with no expectations.  What he discovers there is nothing short of life.<br />The publisher notes that this book was written thirty years before its publication; however, although there are certain things such as fashion and monetary values which are firmly rooted in the 1970's, this novel reads as a timeless story about love and its bewildering turns.  At times humorous and others, heartbreaking, McMahon has fashioned a story that should appeal to a wide range of readers.  His language and turns of plot are unassuming and honest. His characters are just quirky enough to be lovable.  The plot is straightforward, and the imagery, while sometimes verging on the heavy-handed, manages to steer clear of the maudlin.  Readers will find themselves rooting for Ira as he makes his circuitous way from the darkness of his depression into the brightness of the real world.<br />Maybe because I read this novel with no expectations myself, I found it a pleasant discovery.  Some readers might find the lack of complexity disappointing, but this novel does not pretend to be more important than it is.  Although I found the final scene a little forced, I can forgive the author this one failing in an otherwise delightful book.	2004-03-02
764959:US	52801489	R19WTJVW3A6GLS	0877790221	637524378	Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of American Writers	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Good only for a cursory look at American writers	This catalogue of American writers was published as a companion to C-SPAN's &quot;American Writers: A Journey Through History&quot; and unfortunately ends up feeling like something more suited to television than a reference book.  Entries are brief and succinct, and are no more informative than a curriculum vitae.  However, I was pleased to see some obscure writers listed, especially minorities, along with other, better known names.  The editors have marked the entries for writers featured on the series with a line-drawing of a quill, a helpful touch for readers familiar with the show.  The short section at the end on &quot;Groups, Movements, and Periodicals&quot; is perhaps the best part of this book, as it offers quick access to the historical aspects of American literature.<br />If you want a good research source of American literature, you'd be better off buying Benet's Readers Encyclopedia of American Literature or Merriam-Webster's Encyclopedia of Literature.  But, if you enjoyed the C-SPAN series and want a book that complements it, you'll probably appreciate it for what it is.	2004-02-29
767549:US	52801489	R2DFSVV9QFRKHE	0452260116	312810069	Song of Solomon	Books	5	149	161	N	Y	One of Toni Morrison's best novels	With passion and a voice that sings with beautiful detail and magic, Toni Morrison's third novel, published in 1977, is a powerful tale that follows the lives of a black family and their friends living in a Michigan city.  In 1931, Macon Dead III, later nicknamed Milkman, is prematurely brought into the world, the first black child born in Mercy Hospital, just after his mother witnesses the brief flight of a man determined to fly from the cupola of the hospital.  Although the novel revolves around Milkman, the stories spun out from him embrace a wide variety of characters and experiences.  Morrison explores the lasting stamp of slavery through the name of Macon Dead; the intimate culture of women through Pilate, Reba, and Hagar; the hunger for property and respectability through Milkman's father; the idea of one's &quot;people&quot; through those in the South who have not forgotten connections; the violence of civil rights through Guitar; and many more issues facing blacks of the times and today.  Despite the resonance of history, this novel is ultimately about its people and their eagerly lived lives.  Morrison plunges her readers into their hearts with a humanity and skill too few novelists possess.  The result is a remarkably emotional and intelligent story that will stay with you for a long time.<br />Readers should not be intimidated by Morrison's Nobel Prize Winner status, as this novel, like most of her others, is written in startling but accessible language.  You don't need an advanced degree (or even a specific race or gender) to slip into her magical prose.  Her characters are real and fully realized, and feel like friends, even when you might want to shake them to their senses.  Although some readers will be puzzled by the end, wanting perhaps the next sentence that explains it all, Morrison has included by her omission the real meaning of her book.  Visit with it for a few moments before closing the cover.<br />I highly recommend this book for a wide range of readers, from high school students to adults.  Even though it was written in the 1970's, its themes and characters still have relevance today.  Morrison is one of the world's literary gifts, and should not be missed.  THE SONG OF SOLOMON is one of her best novels.ge of readers, from high school students to adults.  Even though it was written in the 1970's, its themes and characters still have relevance today.  Morrison is one of the world's literary gifts, and should not be missed.  THE SONG OF SOLOMON is one of her best novels.	2004-02-27
767687:US	52801489	RIH25FPRDFNV	0809290332	664823297	Beachcombing the Pacific	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	An invaluable guide for serious beachcombers	Although Amos Wood acknowledges the casual beachcomber as someone who decides to explore the hide tide line on a spontaneous Sunday afternoon, this book is written for the more serious seeker of odd objects that wash up on the Pacific shores. He explores basic techniques - where and how to look for items, clothing and gear necessities, the type of objects you're likely to find and which are valued most highly, safety concerns, and a breakdown of the coastal areas and their best beachcombing opportunities.  This book not only covers the American west coast but includes the Marshall Islands, the Canadian coastline, Caroline Islands, and the Hawaiian Islands.  He supplies roughly sketched line drawings of the strongest currents and how they hit the land. The black-and-white photographs give the book a dated feel, making it seem written much earlier than 1987.  Still, the information is good and helpful for anyone wishing to embark on a serious beachcombing hobby.	2004-02-27
778956:US	52801489	R18YORA4L9G3B	0930501217	184950653	Some Heroes, Some Heroines, Some Others: A Story Collection	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Uneven, but still worth the read	This collection of short fiction explores a world populated by off-beat characters masquerading as ordinary people.  They suffer, they strive, and they mostly end up with only an inkling of what it means to be themselves.  Although most of these sixteen stories have been previously published by respected literary magazines, the quality here is uneven.  Fortunately, the stronger stories outnumber the less successful.<br />The collection begins inauspiciously, with two of the weaker stories, \\"A Gentle Glow\\" and \\"A Puff of Roses \\" that do much to introduce the author's style without any real power behind them.  Fortunately for the reader, Taylor follows these two with \\"Alpha and Omega,\\" the heartbreakingly understated story of a boy who is molested by a priest and then, as a grown man, inadvertently calls this same priest to administer last rites to his dying mother.  \\"Stars is Stars,\\" the story of a waitress who desperately wants a change in her life as she approaches middle-age, is another gem.  The more self-conscious but equally good \\"Heroes and Heroines, For the Atomic Age\\" details, often with wry humor, the marriage of a \\"normal couple\\" and their failings, offering a literary take on the theory of relativity.  The final story, \\"Three Lines and a Moral,\\" tells of a Vietnam vet whose timing has always been fortuitous.  When he is persuaded to act as his town's chief of police, he faces off against a more volatile vet who makes his own bad luck.<br />Taylor's writing, while not highly experimental here, requires attention and an acceptance of the testing of convention.  These stories unfold in unexpected ways, with allusions acting as thematic frameworks and lists as characterization. A worthwhile read for those who devour literary journals and who seek less mainstream fiction.	2004-02-19
780402:US	52801489	R3UMJ59323FBQS	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	876	919	N	Y	An amazing fictional leap	Mark Haddon has written a moving novel about love and bravery through the eyes of a British autistic boy.  Christopher discovers his neighbor's poodle dead, impaled by a pitchfork, and, because he adores puzzles, he sets out to solve the mystery of who killed Wellington .  But Christopher is autistic, a boy who doesn't like to be touched and cannot decipher emotions beyond the tools his teacher has taught him, and so the task requires the huge effort of testing rules and facing his own fears.  A literalist by neurology, he deconstructs life into a set of mathematical equations and physical laws.  This unique perspective makes him a good detective on one level, where clues and logic rule, but it also fails him on another, higher one because he cannot understand the magnitude of what he uncovers.<br />That Haddon was able to write a book from Christopher's point of view with all his quirks and still make him lovable is extraordinary.  By necessity, the writing is simple and unadorned, but the language of details elevates it from the mundane.  The insertion of mathematical puzzles and drawings add to the reader's understanding of how Christopher's mind works.  Haddon's real skill is an understatement that allows the reader to comprehend what is going on even if Christopher cannot.  Although Christopher cannot grasp subtlety and nuances, the reader can, and that's where the true force of this exceptional novel lies.<br />This short, easy to read book can be completed in a couple of sittings, although its impact will last much longer. Highly recommended for a general readership.	2004-02-18
784371:US	52801489	R2DRY35HKFMEMN	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	5	135	158	N	N	&quot;A Tragedy Rewritten as a Farce&quot;	Jonathan Franzen has written an ambitious, hugely human novel about a middle class family suffering from too many expectations.  In chapters that are closer to novellas in length, THE CORRECTIONS manages to evoke the deeply seated emotions of its characters without taking itself too seriously.  Alfred suffers from Parkinson's disease and possibly Alzheimer's, while his wife Enid believes that his failing is not what he has, but who he is.  Oldest son Gary is a control freak who is losing control of his marriage, while middle child Chip is an unemployed Ph.D. whose  hopes hinge on selling a hopelessly bad script.  The youngest, Denise, is the hard-working chef of an acclaimed Philadelphia restaurant whose choices in love are almost always disastrous.  While their problems weigh each down, the details of their lives are often wryly humorous.  That Chip really believes a screenplay that begins with a six page lecture on sexual imagery in Tudor drama can be a blockbuster, and that Enid falls in love with the lion-y (and illegal) yellow capsules of a mood enhancer called Aslan despite her rigid ethics, balance the downward spiral of their lives.  As a former Lithuanian U.N. ambassador says as he and Chip are chased through a country in political crisis, &quot;[. . . ] it's mostly posturing.  A tragedy rewritten as a farce.&quot;  No other sentence more aptly describes this novel's distinctive flair.<br />Franzen's writing can be pretentious and off-putting at times, with obscure words mixed liberally with vulgarities.  Occasionally, a dialogue passage goes on for too long, or a descriptive paragraph fails.  However, these lapses are rare.  On the whole, this novel is tightly written with a keen eye to the larger significance of petty moments.  With THE CORRECTIONS, Franzen has proven himself an astute and witty observer of human nature.<br />Readers who prefer commercial novels may find the novel's multiple plots too slow-moving.  Its strength definitely lies in its characterization and social observations, not in its story.  Readers of literary fiction should find it immensely satisfying.  Highly recommended.aracterization and social observations, not in its story.  Readers of literary fiction should find it immensely satisfying.  Highly recommended.	2004-02-15
792806:US	52801489	R2HULL6RGF1TKD	0521349990	860607797	Genres in Discourse	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Literature, Broken Down into Its Components	Tzvetan Todorov has become a giant in literary criticism ever since his first emergence as a thinker in the 1960's.  GENRES IN DISCOURSE - this English translation by Catherine Porter appeared in 1990 - is a slim but intellectually dense treatise on what differentiates and defines literature, in both the largest sense and the most minute.  Todorov explores the functional and structural elements of literature; the origin of genres; narratology; poetry when &quot;verse&quot; is removed; and the complex interaction between reader and text.  He then moves to separate essays discussing Dostoevsky, Poe, Conrad, and James.  The chapter on James, &quot;The Awkward Age,&quot; catches Todorov at his best as he explores the meaning and incomprehension of words and sentences as a central theme in James's work.<br />Todorov is a master of discourse, as his arguments contain the logic of classic reasoning with the leaps of an inventive thinker.  Make no mistake - this book is for the academic and the literary critic, and not for the casual reader.  Paragraphs sometimes need to be read several times to understand their full meaning, but for those who are interested in theories of literature, the rewards are worth the concentration needed.	2004-02-09
806441:US	52801489	R2DF6ZYFWT5I4R	0802135226	79903283	The Passion	Books	5	38	40	N	N	A Passion Play, Askew	Jeanette Winterson's short novel, THE PASSION, is not as simple as its plot suggests.  Henri, a Frenchman who has dedicated his young life to Bonaparte falls in love with Villanelle, a Venetian woman who cannot love him because her heart belongs to another woman.  In her clear but poetic language, Winterson delves deeper - into the issues of the soul and the heart, of knowing when to cast aside passion and when to embrace it, of the heartless of both war and love.  As she does so, she takes the reader through her own kind of passion play, where web-footed Villanelle can walk across water and a prophet with green slime in her hair speaks the truth.  A defrocked priest, able to see across miles and into houses, is destroyed by &quot;the spirits&quot; - alcohol, to be precise - and in his death gives Henri a miracle.  Bonaparte becomes the people's &quot;little Lord in his simple uniform&quot; who convinces thousands of men to follow him to their deaths.  The question arises, what is evil and what is saintly?  Where is the salvation in all the heartlessness?  That these character can find any peace at all in the midst of chaos is the novel's final miracle, though it might not be the calm readers expect.<br />Despite the rampant symbolism and religious references, Winterson's grasp of language, imagery, and rhythm gives this a lighter touch than might be expected.  After all, both Henri and Villanelle readily confess to &quot;telling stories.&quot;  And how can one take seriously a fat cook who, after passing out in a drunken stupor just before Napoleon arrives to inspect the kitchen, is rigged to an upright position by Henri and a friend?  Who cannot laugh at Villanelle donning a codpiece to protect herself from lascivious men?  But Winterson also adds the mysterious stranger who asks a rich Venetian man to gamble not only his life but the manner of this death, possibly the most chilling scene in the book.  After all, Winterson writes, &quot;Venice, the city of Satan,&quot; and we learn how easily it can be to become lost in its maze.<br />THE PASSION is my first Winterson book, and this virtuoso performance ensures that it won't be my last.  I highly recommend this novel for readers of literary fiction, particularly those in love with language, and for readers in search of a very different and original fiction.n,&quot; and we learn how easily it can be to become lost in its maze.  <br />THE PASSION is my first Winterson book, and this virtuoso performance ensures that it won't be my last.  I highly recommend this novel for readers of literary fiction, particularly those in love with language, and for readers in search of a very different and original fiction.	2004-01-29
810654:US	52801489	RIKXRKH43FFTX	0060530103	889343154	The Grandmothers: Four Short Novels	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Worth it just for &quot;Love Child&quot;	Doris Lessing's compilation of four novellas (called &quot;short novels&quot; in the title) shows Lessing at both her best and worst.  Only the last, &quot;Love Child&quot; comes close to showing her sheer power as a writer, and this novella is so artfully written, even as it meanders through a man's life, that it's well worth enduring the others to get to it.<br />The most annoying of these novellas are &quot;The Grandmothers&quot; and &quot;The Reason For It,&quot; the latter because of its allegorical didacticism.  In a collection otherwise about impossible love, &quot;The Reason For It&quot; stands out as not belonging, for it concerns the lessons of unearned (and unreasonable) power. &quot;The Grandmothers&quot; fails for a different reason:  it is simply too neat, too devoid of true emotion, too hard to accept as something more than an exercise in fiction.  Two women, largely indistinguishable except by name, have two sons, also indistinguishable.  Each woman, for no believable reason, takes the son of the other as a lover.  The two sons grow up, marry indistinguishable women and have between them two indistinguishable daughters.  The women are repeatedly described as &quot;pretty&quot;  with &quot;brown legs&quot; and their sons are &quot;handsome&quot; and &quot;desirable.&quot;  At times well-written and other times bland, this novella ends up being only mildly interesting.  Especially after recently reading Paul Theroux's THE STRANGER AT THE PALAZZO D'ORO, I wonder why such skilled but aging writers are exploring older women being lovers of younger men when they can't write convincingly about it.  At least the novella following &quot;The Grandmothers&quot;, &quot;Victoria and the Staveneys,&quot; an exploration of love and race, manages to find the emotion in an unusual situation.<br />And then, finally, the reader, if she hasn't given up already, reaches the last novella, &quot;Love Child.&quot;  Here, Lessing takes her time to develop the circumstances of a lower middle class man who is drafted while still in college to serve during World War II. Slow to unfold but honest at every turn, this novella is a delight in detail and character, with its protagonist James earning the right to the reader's affection.  With a few minor exceptions, what happens is both convincing and natural.  By the end of it, I felt Lessing had redeemed herself both as a writer and an observer of the human condition.<br />&quot;Love Child&quot; alone makes this collection worth reading.  Thank goodness Lessing chose to include it, for otherwise I would have been greatly disappointed.f a lower middle class man who is drafted while still in college to serve during World War II. Slow to unfold but honest at every turn, this novella is a delight in detail and character, with its protagonist James earning the right to the reader's affection.  With a few minor exceptions, what happens is both convincing and natural.  By the end of it, I felt Lessing had redeemed herself both as a writer and an observer of the human condition.<br />&quot;Love Child&quot; alone makes this collection worth reading.  Thank goodness Lessing chose to include it, for otherwise I would have been greatly disappointed.	2004-01-26
815448:US	52801489	R2XLJ7TENRI4LT	1582971935	908048279	Novel & Short Story Writer's Market: 2,000+ Places to Get Your Fiction Into Print	Books	4	8	9	N	N	An important book for the aspiring writer	As a published novelist and fiction writer, I recommend The Novel &amp; Short Story Writer's Market for writers who have one or more finished manuscripts and are ready to plunge into the world of publishing.  The market entries, though not exhaustive, are comprehensive enough, and the detailed information within each provides enough guidance when deciding where to submit. You won't find every agent listed here, nor will you find every literary magazine and book publisher.  However, I've never seen another, more far-reaching source than this series.<br />You will have to buy a new edition every year since markets change constantly.  Fortunately, the editors add new articles and interviews to make the purchase less painful.  This time you'll find a much-needed article on scams (aspiring writers are prime targets) and how to identify them.  Other new features include &quot;Breaking into Graphic Novels&quot; and a short course on &quot;Craft and Technique.&quot; The interviews are always informative, if a little short, and provide ample inspiration to those struggling to get published. As always, you'll find a run-down on manuscript mechanics and how to submit your work.<br />In recent editions, the editors have realized that novelists can't rely solely on listings since many publishers only consider manuscripts from agents, so they have a solid section with information on agents.  Short story writers will page through this book more than most, since they must submit their work themselves.<br />This market guide is an excellent place for the new writer to start.  Once you have an agent, or stop writing short stories, this guide will be less vital to your career.	2004-01-22
815557:US	52801489	RL3GXUQZEF4ZU	0679734031	63098678	The Art of Fiction: Notes on Craft for Young Writers	Books	4	148	155	N	N	Still relevant for writers today	I recently re-read this classic book on writing fiction, and found it as relevant today as it was when it was first published.  Because Gardner strives for &quot;higher art&quot;, his musings and instructions for the beginner go much deeper than ordinary how-to books.  His lengthy chapter titled &quot;Interest and Truth&quot; gets to the heart of what fiction needs to be, whether one is writing literary fiction or a crime novel.  His &quot;Common Errors&quot; chapter, although relatively short and sounding as basic as one can get, offers some of the best advice on how to improve one's writing, from suggestions to creating dynamic sentences to how to imbue narrative with emotion.  &quot;Technique&quot; covers topics such as paying attention to rhythm and word choice and building narrative suspense.  Although I yawned during the chapter on plot - Gardner's diagrams and attempts at describing structure were too mechanical for my tastes, I'm sure some readers will read it voraciously.  Likewise, his thorough compilation of writing exercises will have some reaching eagerly for their keyboards.  I found that the sections that had interested me on my first reading years ago were not the same ones that intrigued me this time, suggesting that this book can grow with the writer.<br />The biggest flaw in this book, and one which might drive some readers away, is Gardner's personal biases.  His intense interest in myth and classics drove his fiction, and it weighs heavily in the examples he provides. Also, he favors examples from his contemporaries - Barthleme, Coover, Barth - who might not interest younger writers who read a different set of cutting edge authors.  Still, you need not be familiar with Gardner's examples to understand his points, as he himself makes few assumptions about the reader/student.<br />Even professional writers can benefit from Gardner's reminders since a revisiting of ideas can only sharpen one's fiction.  Aspiring writers will leave these pages with an eagerness to attack their own work and with a set of wise guidelines to help them achieve their best work.an eagerness to attack their own work and with a set of wise guidelines to help them achieve their best work.	2004-01-22
817077:US	52801489	RP9WVJN9WXZZ	0618265155	723333233	The Stranger at the Palazzo d'Oro and Other Stories	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Innocence and Desire, Corrupted	Paul Theroux's collection of two novellas and two stories centers thematically on forbidden desire and the eroticism it evokes:  between the old and the young, the employer and the employee, the priest and the boy, the wife and the milkman. Like much of Theroux's work, the corruption of innocence plays an important role in the unfolding of these tales.<br />The title novella is a story within a story:  a sixty year old American painter who arrives in Sicily to mark the period when he was twenty-one and entered into a bizarre relationship with an older and wealthy German woman.  The reader is thrown into the lengthy flashback of how the painter came to know this woman, the Grafin, and her traveling companion.  The Grafin turns out to be a sadist by day, a masochist by night, and the graphic encounters between the young man and the older woman contrast sharply with the civility and aloofness they maintain in public.  The secret that was revealed to the young painter haunts him even years later, on his sixtieth birthday, when he encounters a nubile seventeen year old not far from where he first saw the wealthy woman.  This frame is Theroux's weakness here, as the end turns on a gimmick instead of true emotion. Beautifully written but mannered, the novella does not achieve anything more than a fleeting pleasure.<br />The other novella, A Judas Memoir, is told in four parts, and follows Andy, a boy with the first stirrings of desire.  His first encounters with sex are painful, humiliating, and violent:  a nun twists his ear as he sees the girl he is infatuated with, he witnessed the nudity of the milkman sleeping with his friend's mother, and he and his friends nearly kill a pedophile who happens to be the priest of their parish. Of the remaining two stories, \\"An African Story\\" is the stronger, and perhaps the best piece in the book.  Like the title novella, it is an older man's reminiscence of an past desire, but here, in the shorter form, it has more urgency.  \\"Disheveled Nymphs,\\" the final piece, reads as more of an anecdote than a true short story, and is a dismal choice to end on.<br />The collection lacks passion despite the desire it sets out to describe.  Theroux's writing is adept, but it fails to take the reader beyond the petty moments of lust.  I recommend this book only to fans of Theroux who want to keep up on his writing.eled Nymphs,\\" the final piece, reads as more of an anecdote than a true short story, and is a dismal choice to end on. <br />The collection lacks passion despite the desire it sets out to describe.  Theroux's writing is adept, but it fails to take the reader beyond the petty moments of lust.  I recommend this book only to fans of Theroux who want to keep up on his writing.	2004-01-21
819698:US	52801489	R3NOF8GAYDOJIY	0679723412	461432736	Pnin	Books	4	115	120	N	N	Nabokov creates his own rules in this satiric novel	Vladimir Nabokov is so often called a &quot;master stylist&quot; that it is easy to forget that he is an adept storyteller as well.  Even though PNIN, one of his lesser known works, threatens to disappear under the gorgeous stylistic turns, it is ultimately the pathetic title character and his nemesis/narrator who drive this novel.  Pnin is a Russian instructor at a college, and, due to his solitary existence and his failure to grasp the subtleties of English, he has become a running joke to most of his colleagues.  He is fussy, awkward, and usually clueless.  The novel reads as episodes in Pnin's life:  losing his lecture notes on a train he should never have been on; his weekend with other Russian immigrants; the crushing love and hope he experiences when his ex-wife visits him; a party he gives for his colleagues.  The narrator's the biting and hilarious commentary about Pnin and those he associates with keeps the reader from taking these events too seriously. But should we?<br />In the writing of this work, Nabokov breaks all the rules.  His shifts in points-of-view, his sometimes favoring of lengthy exposition over scene, his dropping of plots and subplots just as they get going all work precisely because he is such a skilled novelist and knows the effect of abandoning conventions.  In dashing the reader's hopes, his style takes tenacious hold of the reader's imagination; we learn to trust the voice - even if we shouldn't.  This last is what is truly brilliant about the novel:  we allow ourselves to be swept into a story of non-events and pathos, laughing along the way and becoming in essence yet another of Pnin's mocking colleagues.<br />Students of literature and book discussion groups can discover a wealth of topics here:  Is the narrator reliable?  How can the narrator be both omniscient and a specific character?  How does the touching story of Pnin's first love fit with the mocking tone in the rest of the novel?  What is the range of the Russian immigrant experience Nabokov supplies?  Is Pnin heroic or merely pathetic?<br />While PNIN is hardly the masterpiece that PALE FIRE or LOLITA is, it has its own rewards.  Once I advanced past the first chapter, I didn't want to leave this odd, Old World character.  Highly recommended, especially if you've already read one or more of Nabokov's other works.experience Nabokov supplies?  Is Pnin heroic or merely pathetic?<br />While PNIN is hardly the masterpiece that PALE FIRE or LOLITA is, it has its own rewards.  Once I advanced past the first chapter, I didn't want to leave this odd, Old World character.  Highly recommended, especially if you've already read one or more of Nabokov's other works.	2004-01-19
823947:US	52801489	R6DDTSIUP3DFF	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	5	197	206	N	Y	A wonderful novel that will stay with you	The elegance of this 2002 Pulitzer Prize winning novel can be described best by one of his characters, teenager Tick, who decides &quot;just because things happen slow doesn't mean you'll be ready for them.&quot;  Miles, the central character of Russo's story, runs the Empire Grill in economically depressed Empire Falls, Maine.  He ekes out a life hoping for parity:  that his loyalty to the grill and to its wealthy owner Mrs. Whiting will result in his owning the business, that his patience with his daughter Tick will be rewarded with openness, that his soon-to-be-ex wife Janine will find what was lacking in him in her fianc&eacute; Walt, that his youthful failure to escape the town will have some redemption.  But the complexity of Mrs. Whiting's interest in him remains out of his grasp, and the dynamics of Tick's life are largely hidden from him.  Janine has a growing need for exactly what she hated so much about Miles.  Worst of all, Miles sees himself as destined to remain a loser who gives and never gets. Russo explores the storylines of all these characters and others, allowing the reader intimate glimpses into their lives. In Empire Falls, relationships between husbands and wives and between parents and children are never simple.  Russo's characters suffer in ways that are passionately ordinary - that is, until everything funnels into one explosive, extraordinary moment.  I literally had to put the book down to absorb this climatic scene.  That this scene was both prepared for and totally shocking speaks to the author's skill.<br />I cannot recommend this book highly enough.  The characters are lively and sympathetic - even the ones that might be called villains - and despite the quiet nature of the narrative, it is a difficult book to put down.	2004-01-16
827154:US	52801489	R385CLQP6ZI7U1	0312319142	298733702	Paranoia	Books	4	12	20	N	Y	Suspenseful Fun!	This fast-paced romp pits down-and-out Adam Cassidy against two multi-national high-tech corporations.  When Adam embezzles thousands of dollars from his employer to throw a stylish retirement party for a loading dock employee, he finds himself at the mercy of his boss, Nicholas Wyatt.  He is faced with a choice:  either go to prison or assist in corporate espionage.  Adam chooses the espionage, and lands a job at rival Trion.  What Adam doesn't count on is shifting loyalties and increasing stakes.  Although Adam's predicament tests his resolve, he always has the spunk and wit to get out of one jam and into another.<br />Despite the title, this novel is not a dark thriller; instead, it is a wry, often outright funny story that owes more to Max Barry's satiric Syrup than to Jeffrey Deaver's The Blue Nowhere.  With Finder's fast-paced, breezy style, Adam does not have the time to be paranoid - he's too busy scrambling to find his way free of the plot twists.  The supporting characters have just the right amount of idiosyncrasies to make them memorable.  The only disappointment is the ambiguous ending; the thriller genre demands more definite resolution than Finder provides.<br />I highly recommend this book for readers who want something both suspenseful and light-hearted.	2004-01-14
828272:US	52801489	R3JQUYXEFDWANG	0375409440	311140684	Love	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Disappointing, but accomplished all the same	Toni Morrison's fiction has justifiably been heralded as some of the best existing within contemporary literature.  In her newest novel, LOVE, Morrison weaves a simpler and more easily followed story than she did in PARADISE.  Set in Up Beach, a dying resort town that once attracted the finest jazz musicians and their upper class followers, Morrison creates a tale of failed lives and dreams.  Hotel owner Bill Cosey was powerful in life, and is even more powerful in death, as his mistakes and decisions live on in those who survived him and even in those who never knew him.<br />The writing is elegantly exact, though I would expect nothing less from Morrison, but, in the voice of L, the italicized voice framing the novel, can become overly grand.  At times, I couldn't help hearing the voice of Della Reese in &quot;Touched By An Angel,&quot; the preachy, sentimental television show of a while back.  Still, this novel is engrossing and surprisingly accessible.  Until the second half, when Morrison fails to bring together the narratives into a powerful and convincing whole, this novel promised to be one of Morrison's best.<br />Part of my disappointment in this book comes from my expectations; Morrison is truly one of America's finest writers, and I had hoped to discover another literary tour de force.  Instead, this novel feels small, not because of its relatively short length but because Morrison fails to take the reader beyond the specifics of her characters' lives.  Even worse, the ending is neat, and somewhat forced, something I never would have expected from Morrison.<br />Despite the novel's failings, it is still better than much of what is being published today.  You won't find Morrison's masterpiece in LOVE, but you will find skilled writing and an often compelling story.  Better than PARADISE but not nearly as accomplished as BELOVED, this novel is middling Morrison, something most other writers can only dream of accomplishing.	2004-01-13
829354:US	52801489	R1XQG7JJNAC754	0811202151	283617845	Miss Lonelyhearts & the Day of the Locust	Books	4	25	26	N	N	"Few things are sadder than the truly monstrous"	Nathanael West had a brief, barely noticed career before his sudden death in 1940.  These two novellas, MISS LONELYHEARTS and THE DAY OF THE LOCUST, stand as his best-known contributions to literature, classics that are now widely taught in American high schools and universities.  MISS LONELYHEARTS is the more bitter of the two:  a newspaper columnist (a man, but always referred to as Miss Lonelyhearts) suffers a crisis of conscience and spirit under the emotional weight of the mail he receives.  His colleagues make fun of the correspondents, who are mostly women, but Miss Lonelyhearts sees the pathetic futility in their seeking help to escape their bleak lives.  His editor, Shrike, tries to energize Miss Lonelyhearts with long-winded diatribes satirizing religious beliefs, but their shrillness pushes Miss Lonelyhearts toward the edge.  Using Christian imagery as well as irony, West evokes a world of alienation, futility, and human failings.<br />THE DAY OF THE LOCUST comes across as more satiric than shrill, perhaps because there is no Shrike here, although West's trademark themes of alienation and futility are fully evident.  Tod Hackett is new to Hollywood;  he is lazy but ambitious, a painter who hopes to earn a living as a set designer.  Tod finds himself drawn to the outsiders of Hollywood, the lower classes, those for whom success is always out of reach.  The characters are almost surreal in their quirkiness.  Aspiring actress Faye Greener lives in the same building as Tod; by introducing Tod to the vapid decadence of Hollywood, she awakens Tod's violent impulses.  Iowan Homer Simpson is a listless, repressed man who has come to California not for show business but for health reasons and to forget what little sexuality he has.  West is not a writer to grant the wishes of his characters, but, like Harry Greener, many of the characters \\"seemed to enjoy their suffering [. . .] the sort that was self-inflicted.\\"<br />West's philosophy in these two novellas seems to fit into a single line in THE DAY OF THE LOCUST, \\"Few things are sadder than the truly monstrous.\\"  These works display a dark, almost desperate humor that exposes the human condition as West saw it.  If you don't think you can take an abundance of hopelessness, you should select another book to read.  Still, these are important works, especially for those interested in modern American literature.s to fit into a single line in THE DAY OF THE LOCUST, \\"Few things are sadder than the truly monstrous.\\"  These works display a dark, almost desperate humor that exposes the human condition as West saw it.  If you don't think you can take an abundance of hopelessness, you should select another book to read.  Still, these are important works, especially for those interested in modern American literature.	2004-01-13
847781:US	52801489	RSITZEU10YR6D	0898793254	170027953	Successful Scriptwriting	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Informative	This how-to book will not make you into a screen writer, but it will help you understand how to get there.  The authors cover basic writing topics such as plot structuring and characterization, and then move onto more advanced topics such as treatments, pitching, and the legal/business issues screen writers face.  You'll find a chapters on specific cinematic genres - feature films, animation, daytime serials, made-for-TV movies, sit-coms, and hour-long television shows.  The authors also include informative interviews with professionals about their craft.  What you won't find is mechanical advice - how to format a script and the devices, such as the capitalization of character names, specific to screen writing.  You'll need to study professional scripts and other books on screen writing to get those details.<br />Like most how-to books on writing, this volume makes the path to becoming a professional seem much easier than it is.  Still, it is a good book for the aspiring screen writer.	2003-12-30
849161:US	52801489	RSID7NOTLU8DJ	0440576474	793284806	Screenplay: The Foundations of Screenwriting; A step-by-step guide from concept to finished script	Books	4	70	76	N	N	Start here . . .	Syd Field's SCREENPLAY is a great book for a beginner.  The author takes the reader through the basic steps of writing a screenplay, from the first idea to fleshing out the characters to the structure of the entire piece.  He explains what a set-up is (and what it needs to be) and tips for beginning and ending the screenplay, two of the more difficult tasks a writer will face.  Perhaps most importantly for those who have never written a script before, he devotes a chapter to the screenplay format, showing indentation and capitalization rules, defining terms used within the script, and explaining abbreviations.<br />Novices to the form should start with this book before moving to more advanced books.  I also recommend studying actual professional screenplays in their entirety.	2003-12-30
849577:US	52801489	R1FNDKUN0AV9MM	0520236157	449680375	My Family Album: Thirty Years of Primate Photography	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A loving photographic tribute	Noted primatologist Frans de Waal has put together a beautifully printed pictorial tribute to primates.  In high quality black-and-white photographs, he documents similarities and differences among non-human primates in areas as diverse as play, confrontation, sex, familial ties, and social activities.  The accompanying text describes not only the meaning behind the pictures but also, in true de Waal form, how they relate to human behavior.  Although de Waal is a scientist, this concise and clearly written book is meant for the lay reader.<br />De Waal's specialty is the study of non-human primates in captivity, so the majority of these photographs do not show monkeys and apes in their native habitat.  Instead, you'll find remarkable close-ups of expressions and interactions that capture moments of the individual lives.  Although de Waal is best known for his study of chimpanzees and bonobos, he includes photographs of macaques, capuchins, baboons, and snow monkeys.<br />This book is a real treat.  I recommend it highly for anyone who has an interest in animal life.	2003-12-29
873201:US	52801489	R1SROQS8522LVR	0385492162	582558887	The Girl in the Flammable Skirt: Stories	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Strange, startling, and original short fiction	Aimee Bender's stories are perhaps some of the strangest being published in contemporary literature.  With her surreal touch and a nod toward the Brother Grimm, this, her first collection, reads like a series of quick dreams - some disturbing, some funny, and all without regard to the laws of reality. The opening story, &quot;Call My Name&quot;, begins the collection with the promise of convention, albeit it an off-kilter one, when a woman follows a man home, hoping to seduce him, only to discover that he has a simple but strange desire that only marginally involves her.  While the emotions and situation in this story are odd, they don't prepare the reader for the first line of the next story, &quot;Steven returned from the war without lips.&quot;  None of Bender's characters are whole, whether they have an actually soccer-ball size hole in their stomachs (&quot;Marzipan&quot;), whether they are imps and mermaids in cognito (&quot;Drunken Mimi&quot;), or whether they are grieving for loved ones.  In &quot;Quiet Please,&quot; a librarian whose father has just died fulfills the librarian fantasies of several male patrons until she meets one whose extraordinary feats of strength finally exposes her emotional pain.  In a line that applies to all the stories, the librarian acknowledges that &quot;it's hard to tell the difference between fantasy and reality.&quot;<br />These odd, rambunctious, and startling stories are not for the literal-minded, but they will charm those who like their short fiction with an irreverent edge.	2003-12-08
876879:US	52801489	R7H1SXRR29CV2	0972429514	657192826	No Revenge So Complete	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A family torn apart	In Sarah Foulger's debut novel, a family is torn apart by an affair and its consequences.  The Quintals - father Stephen, mother Corinne, and daughters Jane and Helen - are thrown into crisis when Helen answers a pre-dawn telephone call for her father.  Told in chapters alternating among all the characters (including Nadine, the high school student with whom Stephen had the affair), the novel follows the characters as they find their own paths to survival through spiritual counsel and support.  The themes of forgiveness and redemption figure strongly, especially in the latter half, hence the title, taken from the Josh Billings quote &quot;There is no revenge so complete as forgiveness.&quot;<br />While some parts of this novel are skillfully told (one of Nadine's passages is particularly memorable), the book suffers from an unfortunate blandness.  Foulger offers no special insight into these lives and their crises, nor does she bring them to life with any vibrancy.  Her best characterizations are of Jane and Nadine, and, not surprisingly, their actions are detailed in the strongest chapters.  Still, even they can be wooden and their thoughts repetitive.<br />Those interested in dysfunctional families, the strength of the spirit, and Christian fiction might be drawn to this story of people who struggle to find peace in the wake of betrayal.	2003-12-04
880110:US	52801489	R1584V2REVEO3N	0060196491	264638295	The Stories of Richard Bausch	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A treat for short story readers!	Richard Bausch has always been better known for his short fiction than for his novels, and this hefty compilation of his stories demonstrates why.  Bausch is a master at showing vulnerable moments, the points at which marriages, familial relationships, and psyches break down.  He condenses entire lives into a few telling scenes.  The awkwardness with which his protagonists approach relationships makes them endearingly fallible, with their missteps costing them in ways they never anticipate.  Bausch is so skilled at evoking the reality of interpersonal encounters that one always gets the feeling that these solidly believable characters survive beyond the last line of their individual tales.<br />These forty-two stories are not meant to be read as a marathon, for to do so would be overwhelming.  The recurrent motifs of personal blunders, regrets, and foundering relationships can wear on a reader if taken all at once.  This collection is best read in chunks separated by other works - a novel, maybe, or stories by other authors.  With this kind of space between readings, almost every story is a gem.  &quot;Nobody in Hollywood&quot; tells of the ruined loves of two brothers and the ironic twist that unites them. &quot;Someone to Watch Over Me&quot; details what is perhaps the final night of a marriage, at an outrageously expensive restaurant that reveals the unbridgeable rift between Ted and Marlee.  &quot;Ancient History&quot; subtly exposes the depth of emotion a teenage boy feels as he, his mother, and his aunt celebrate their first Christmas without his father.  &quot;Contrition&quot; tells of the obsession an ex-con has with an old photograph of his father and the idyllic moment it captured.  In one of the rare stories from a female point-of-view, &quot;Guatemala,&quot; Bausch excels at exposing the raw undercurrents that run in a family of women.  Bausch is at his best when he delves deeply into family dynamics, especially between protagonists and their parents.<br />This collection is truly a treat for Bausch fans.  It makes a great gift for readers of contemporary literature..<br />This collection is truly a treat for Bausch fans.  It makes a great gift for readers of contemporary literature.	2003-12-02
897794:US	52801489	R2AT2THDWDPLE6	0870744186	98433562	A Stone of the Heart: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A quiet novel about baseball and growing up	This quiet, slender novel of a boy's maturation in the shadow of his dysfunctional family takes place in 1961, during the summer when Roger Maris hit his sixty-first home run. Fourteen year old Michael puts his hope in baseball and Maris catching Babe Ruth's record as his family falls apart.  His alcoholic father has left the family, his passive mother offers no support, his younger brother Rudy is mute, and his grandparents don't have the strength to halt the collapse of the small family.  As Michael assumes the role of the man of the house, he begins to see the world beyond his small, wounded sphere, and, in the process, discovers how to survive.<br />Not much longer than a novella, A STONE OF THE HEART can be read in a single sitting.  Grimes explores the delicate dynamics of a lost family with a sure, light hand.  Despite the subject matter, this novel is not grim; instead, it highlights, often with humor, the awkwardness of growing up.	2003-11-17
898410:US	52801489	R561VWQLYYS20	1841954608	701095379	Vernon God Little: A 21st Century Comedy in the Presence of Death (Man Booker Prize)	Books	3	45	55	N	Y	All Voice	The strength of DBC Pierre's award-winning novel is in the voice of its narrator, Vernon Gregory Little, a fifteen year old oddball kid from Texas whose best friend Jesus went on a shooting rampage at school.  Because Jesus killed himself at the scene, there's no one to take legal and emotional blame for the tragedy, so the police haul Vernon into the station for questioning.  Through a series of mistakes and an adolescent distrust of authority, Vernon looks more and more guilty despite not being at the scene until after the massacre.  Dogged by a slimy television repairman turned reporter, ignored by a mother who wants a new refrigerator more than a freed son, and supported by his mother's best friend whose answer to every tragedy is a trip to the Bar-B-Chew Barn, Vernon is left to his own, not-so-sophisticated devices.<br />This novel is funny in a grating way:  the humor has a forced edge to it that sometimes works but often doesn't.  Malapropisms abound and quickly get tiring, mostly because the narrator is not as ignorant as the garbled phrases suggest. The language is profane and sometimes clumsy, and Vernon's hormonally-charged psyche comes out in weak, meaningless descriptions,  such as piano notes &quot;tinkling in the background, soft as ovaries hitting oatmeal.&quot;  With often biting satire, Pierre turns his eye to many facets of American society:  the media, the judicial system, obsession with food, small town life, religion, psychiatry, families, adolescent angst.  The scenes are over the top, which is perfect for satire, but Pierre never tackles the issues with any depth or fresh insight.  Instead, this novel reads as a dark comic strip punctuated by profanity.  It is ultimately more ambitious than it is successful.  Even its thematic development of religious imagery is clumsy.  Pierre uses Vernon's friend's name Jesus frequently in a context that could confuse him with the Christian Messiah, and Vernon often talks about being nailed to a cross; these references fall heavily and without real meaning.  (I find it intriguing that both last year's Man Booker Prize (The Life of Pi) and this 2003 winner rely on religious imagery to convey the plight of a naif.)<br />VERNON GOD LITTLE is a memorable book, told with a voice that is as distinctive as the best first-person narrators in fiction; however, a voice alone does not make a fine novel.  I recommend this uneven book only for those who want to keep up on the latest prize-winners in fiction, and perhaps for those who liked A CONFEDERACY OF DUNCES, a novel to which this is often compared.ese references fall heavily and without real meaning.  (I find it intriguing that both last year's Man Booker Prize (The Life of Pi) and this 2003 winner rely on religious imagery to convey the plight of a naif.)  <br />VERNON GOD LITTLE is a memorable book, told with a voice that is as distinctive as the best first-person narrators in fiction; however, a voice alone does not make a fine novel.  I recommend this uneven book only for those who want to keep up on the latest prize-winners in fiction, and perhaps for those who liked A CONFEDERACY OF DUNCES, a novel to which this is often compared.	2003-11-17
903510:US	52801489	R1UJIV6L5G42PA	0312151640	411006304	Little: A Novel	Books	4	17	19	N	N	A Housing Tract Called Poverty	In a housing tract called Poverty, population seven, a grave is dug, then filled, even though eight year old Little's body is missing.  This unsentimental first novel revolves around the seven people who knew the nearly silent Little and who scratch out a difficult life on a Ojibwe reservation in Minnesota.  They lend their voices and perspectives, some contradictory, to this bleak story of how Little came to \\"be in everything.\\"  The heart of this novel is not Little, however, but the people who knew him.  Even though Little is not a major character the way his brother Donovan is, he represents the deformity in the others that must be overcome to survive.<br />Treuer has structured his novel in individual stories that are connected more through the association of the characters than any solid narrative drive.  His writing is stark - sometimes poetic and others ordinary, but always fitting the mood of the moment.  If this novel suffers from anything, it's obtuseness. The reader knows when he is supposed to read more into dialogue or a description, but the connections aren't always clear.  The author's talents far outweigh this flaw, as Poverty and its residents are memorable, complex creations.<br />LITTLE is not an uplifting novel, nor is it an easy read, so readers looking for these qualities should look elsewhere.  For those interested in literary fiction or in issues facing contemporary Native Americans, you will find much offered here by the author of a later work, THE HIAWATHA.	2003-11-12
904321:US	52801489	R10HG0EI9TDVW	0786885157	396019576	Desirable Daughters: A Novel	Books	5	21	24	N	Y	A Triumph for Mukherjee	This clear-eyed tale of Tara Chatterjee begins in an unlikely place, a forest lit by oil lamps in 1879 as a five-year old bride is led on a palanquin to marry a tree, an ingenious ceremony designed to protect her honor.  It soon becomes clear that the narrator of this strange event (and the novel as a whole) is Tara Chatterjee, a divorced single mother living in San Francisco who was named after the Tree-Bride. Tara comes from a prestigious Calcutta family, the Bhattacharjees, the youngest daughter of three, and can trace her ancestry back to the five-year old bride. Now a school aide living with a Buddhist carpenter, Tara's life goes against everything she was raised to be.  The only constant is her emotional devotion to her family.  When a suspicious man shows up claiming to be the illegitimate son of her oldest sister, however, Tara's understanding of both her sister and the world is shaken.  Danger and secrets lurk everywhere, and Tara finds herself alone in the middle of a crowded society as she searches for both truth and security.<br />This complicated novel examines with startling honesty the prejudices. ambitions, familial ties, and the culture of India primarily as they manifest themselves in contemporary America.  Mukherjee accomplishes this tapestry through the likeable, trustworthy voice of Tara.  The result is an intimate portrait of a woman in transition.  Mukherjee throws out exoticism for candidness, relying not on lyrical prose but on insight.  For these reasons, DESIRABLE DAUGHTERS is a refreshing addition to the canon of contemporary Indian literature.<br />The major flaw of this novel is the contrived full-circle ending.  Mukherjee is absolutely brilliant up to this point, and manages to pull off potentially melodramatic material in a sensitive, believable manner.  Until the disappointing final section, I would have ranked this book as one of my all-time favorites.  The momentum and the emotional drive is lost, and the reader is left with little to hang onto except the final line.  Still, what comes before is stunning in its execution.<br />With its page-turning danger and vibrant description, this novel should appeal to readers who enjoy both plot and thematic depth to their fiction.  Especially if you enjoy the works of  Jhumpa Lahiri and Anita Desai, you're likely to find yourself engrossed in this wonderful novel.le to hang onto except the final line.  Still, what comes before is stunning in its execution.<br />With its page-turning danger and vibrant description, this novel should appeal to readers who enjoy both plot and thematic depth to their fiction.  Especially if you enjoy the works of  Jhumpa Lahiri and Anita Desai, you're likely to find yourself engrossed in this wonderful novel.	2003-11-12
911053:US	52801489	R2YPFO2FRDZ45L	0618056777	612867510	Through a Window	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Thirty Years of Goodall Research in Gombe	Jane Goodall's contributions to our knowledge of chimpanzees has been remarkable.  Because she first arrived in Africa completely untrained as an observer of animal behavior, she was able to bring a humanist's instincts to her work; her natural ability to see details and connections, as well as her affection for her subjects, culminated in published results that rocked the scientific community.  THROUGH A WINDOW picks up her observations where IN THE SHADOW OF MAN left off.  Here, she follows the lives mostly of the children of the original group.  She has organized her chapters by theme:  Mothers and Daughters, Sons and Mothers, War, Power, Love, and more.  Within these chapters, she explores the specific lives of the Gombe chimps and their relationships with their relatives and group members. By tackling specific topics of behavior, she is able to fully integrate the range of her experiences, from first observations to those made thirty years later.  As Goodall is quick to point out, what she assumed at first did not necessarily prove to hold fast over time.<br />No less fascinating than IN THE SHADOW OF MAN, this book is extraordinary for its insight into chimpanzee personalities, relationships, and culture.  If you have never before read Goodall's books, you will be surprised by the strong echoes of human behavior in these wild and highly individual chimpanzees.  Goodall has made enormous contributions to our understanding of non-human primates, and should be widely read.	2003-11-06
911570:US	52801489	R1VTILLON1KDBC	051770899X	64854562	How to Speak Chimpanzee-Glb	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fun book for kids interested in chimpanzees	This slim book offers \\"translations\\" of basic chimp vocalizations and expressions, and tips on how humans can reproduce them.  The illustrations are a little clumsy (no photographs here), but they help kids understand the verbal points.  A lot of fun for anyone who has an affinity toward these closely related primates.	2003-11-06
911610:US	52801489	R2KSM7RCX2ELX1	0674116623	618086791	Chimpanzee Cultures: With a Foreword by Jane Goodall	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Scientific papers on chimpanzee culture	More scientific in nature than most books on chimpanzees, the editors have compiled a series of papers written by noted primatologists on the subject of chimpanzee culture.  The book is divided into sections:  Ecology, Social Relations, and Cognition.  With articles titled like \\"Biobehavorial Roots of Language: A Comparative Perspective of Chimpanzee, Child, and Culture,\\" you know you aren't reading a book intended for the mass market.  These papers often contain objective measures of the authors' studies represented in graphs and charts, with minimal photographic illustration. However, for anyone researching the details of chimpanzee culture, this book offers a wealth of insight from a variety of sources.<br />I recommend this book only for those seriously interested in chimpanzees and primate social structure.  Others will find this book too dry and scientific, especially when compared to the more anecdotal books written by Jane Goodall.	2003-11-06
914958:US	52801489	R29VYQ3DMU7LY4	0816041067	588146409	Descriptionary (Facts on File Writer's Library)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Reverse look-up for specific words	This &quot;descriptionary&quot; is based on the premise that sometimes we know the function of an object but not its name.  McCutcheon has thus divided his book into categories, not much different in theory from the traditional thesaurus structure.  For instance, if you want to know the word for the paw motion cats and kittens do that looks like kneading, you look up first the main section on &quot;Animals,&quot; then the subcategory &quot;Cats&quot;, and finally find the word: &quot;milk-treading.&quot;  The main categories are broad, including finance, clothing, weapons, sports, and many others. My main complaint is that it is not comprehensive enough.  I would like to see a volume twice as thick so I would have a greater chance of finding the word I wanted.<br />Despite its flaws, DESCRIPTIONARY offers word help when it is most needed.	2003-11-03
915091:US	52801489	R23P04Q817TLSH	0395927218	25220636	The Namesake: A Novel	Books	4	190	204	N	N	A fine novel about a transplanted Bengali family	In THE NAMESAKE, Pulitzer Prize winning author Jhumpa Lahiri's first novel, the characters are always hungry:  for a place to call home, for family, for love, and, of course, for food.  Ashima, in an arranged marriage to Ashoke Ganguli, misses her native India as she sets up house far from her family in Massachusetts, a land of bleak winters that her family will never know, much less understand.  Making Bengali food out of American substitutes, she searches desperately for the comfort of her childhood.  Time gradually pulls her away from the past, and she learns the ways of America, becomes friends with other transplanted Bengalis, and begins a family.  A quiet affection develops between Ashima and Ashoke as they raise their two children, oddly-named Gogol and his sister Sonia.  The novel lovingly follows the family through decades of heartache and celebrations.<br />Gogol is the novel's center and its primary perspective, the namesake of the title.  Although he does not know it until much later in life, Gogol is named after the Russian author not because, as he is told at first, Gogol is his father's favorite writer but because a copy of Gogol's short stories saved Ashoke's life after a train wreck.  To Ashoke, the name of Gogol signifies a beginning, survival, \\"everything that followed\\" the horrific night spent in the rubble.  This idea is the heart of the novel; as immigrants the Gangulis must look forward to what lies ahead instead of what is past.  In America, Ashima and Ashoke are reborn, just as their children must find their own paths.<br />Rich with detail and infused with affection, this novel has a lyricism that brings the Gangulis' world to life without exoticism.  The description of food - Indian, French, American - is so exactly decadent that one should not read this book hungry.  The only thing this wonderful novel suffers from is a neatly-wrapped nostalgia in the final chapter.  Despite this minor flaw, I highly recommend this novel for a wide readership.  Only those who desire strongly plotted fiction should be disappointed.  (4.5 stars)ership.  Only those who desire strongly plotted fiction should be disappointed.  (4.5 stars)	2003-11-03
915364:US	52801489	R3TPQG93EUUWE7	0440235138	818787922	Roget's 21st Century Thesaurus: Updated & Expanded 2nd Edition (21st Century Reference)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	In Dictionary Format	I never use my online thesaurus because it always seems to fall short, sometimes laughably so.  With Roget's dictionary format thesaurus, I'm able to page with ease through several entries to locate the exact word or phrase I want. I can skip through the hilarious substitutions to locate the one perfect for my needs. Because I grew up using the dictionary format, I find myself at ease in this newly updated version that includes many entries of contemporary phrases.<br />Thesauri should be used with care, as the numerous choices can end up making sentences overly formal and stilted.  If used sparingly, however, this volume makes a strong addition to any reference shelf.	2003-11-03
915821:US	52801489	R214YXKHHAL28U	067174271X	527042489	The Timetables of History: A Horizontal Linkage of People and Events	Books	4	58	63	N	N	Solid historical timeline	Although it takes a few minutes to orient oneself with the structure of this timeline reference book, the huge amount of information it contains is readily accessible.  Beginning in the 5000 BC and going to contemporary times, the timeline contains a year by year (or age by age, for the earliest entries) list of major occurrences in history/politics, literature/theater, visual arts, music, science and technology, and &quot;daily life.&quot;  Obviously, not all years contain entries across the board, and several years have packed grids.  As the years get closer to the present, huge lists of events can take an entire page for a single year.  Although heavily biased toward European and North American culture, the entries are not exclusively western. While helpful in determining the events in a specific time frame, this volume is strictly a timeline without reference to specific trends and without analysis.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone putting together a collection of easy-to-access reference books.	2003-11-03
915957:US	52801489	R37TIJ2NEPEUXP	0786868465	522956817	The New York Public Library Desk Reference	Books	5	22	23	N	N	I love this book!	You can't get a better book than this to page through on a whim.  From a list of major composers to the basic rules of mathematics to traveling tips, this fat reference volume has entries that surprise me every time I open it. You want to know the symptoms and treatment of food poisoning?  It's in there.  The addresses of major U.S. passport agencies? Got it.  How about the names and reigns of every Roman Catholic pope? How to set financial goals for retirement?  The length of a day on Pluto?  You'll find those answers here as well.  The sheer amount of trivia is staggering.  If you want to know the answer to a question, no matter how ordinary or obscure, look here first.<br />Dictionary readers will switch their allegiances once they get a hold of this desk reference.  All others will refer to it at surprising times.  A must have for every reference shelf.	2003-11-03
916269:US	52801489	RGR645VJS0CM2	0060674407	508823103	The Illustrated World's Religions: A Guide to Our Wisdom Traditions	Books	4	39	41	N	N	A solid  overview of world religions	For those wanting to understand the core beliefs of world religions, this book is an excellent place to start.  Author Smith includes chapters on Hinduism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Taoism, Islam, Judaism, Christianity, and the &quot;Primal Religions,&quot; or early tribal beliefs. While each section is remarkably detailed, this book remains an introduction, not a comprehensive examination.  The explanations are straightforward and clear without being overly simplified.  The illustrations and photographs, most in color, illuminate moments of each religion's faithful.<br />For students and scholars and the curious, this is a good reference book to own, if for no other reason than to expand your understanding of world beliefs.  If you are looking for in-depth analysis, you would be better off looking elsewhere.	2003-11-03
916301:US	52801489	R3BUSXHA4R0QRH	078947994X	783631365	Story of Philosophy	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Introduction to Major Ideas in Philosophy	Not to be confused with the Will Durant book of a similar title, this glossy book packed with color illustrations and photographs is an introductory book to the major movements of western philosophy.  Beginning with the Greeks, Magee takes the reader through the ideas of early Christianity and early modern science, following the natural progression into the rationalists and the empiricists.  French, German, and early American philosophy follow in separate sections detailing the basic ideas of philosophers such as Descartes, Hume, Rousseau, and Hegel.  Magee ends with twentieth century philosophy, offering predictions for future trends in philosophical thought.<br />This book makes a fine touchstone to remind one of certain schools of philosophy or to learn about the most famous thinkers of western civilization. This book is far too slender to include some of the more intricate ideas or lesser known individuals who have nonetheless made contributions to the field. Regardless, this attractive book makes a good reference tool when navigating major trends of thought.	2003-11-03
916926:US	52801489	R9L9DI1UZH1OS	0452283442	53203756	The Darwin Awards: Evolution in Action (Darwin Awards (Plume Books))	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Funny at times	Charles Darwin's theory of the &quot;survival of the fittest&quot; implies, by extension, that idiots will die, thus the premise of this humorous volume.  Wendy Northcutt has compiled a series of anecdotes of fatal stupidity, from the drunken pilot who took off with a gust lock in place to the prison guard falling through a skylight as he &quot;supervised&quot; conjugal visits.  Many of these stories involve alcohol, which is not so much stupidity as it impairment.  The story of a man awakened in the middle of the night by a phone and mistaking his bedside gun for a receiver speaks less of a lack of intelligence than it does nighttime confusion. Other anecdotes are truly hilarious in their lack of common sense.<br />A person must die to be awarded a Darwin Award, so these stories aren't for the fainthearted.  They have all been carefully documented to avoid inclusions of urban legends.  Unfortunately, as a whole, the book is simply not as funny as the individual stories I used to receive in my inbox.  Too many borderline anecdotes are included. Although this book makes a good gift for those who revel in the stupidity of others, don't expect laughs on every page.	2003-11-02
919101:US	52801489	R1IWG5VD03H4TS	0224018744	429688696	Chimpanzee Politics: Power and Sex Among Apes	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Compelling observations	Frans de Waal is one of the most prominent primatologists writing about non-human primates today.  Unlike Jane Goodall, who studies chimpanzees in the wild, de Waal observes captive chimp behavior at the Yerkes Regional Primate Research Center in Georgia.  Although de Waal's strength lies in his ability to find echoes of human behavior in chimpanzee interactions (a stance that is still controversial in some circles), he is careful not to read absolutes into his observations. He is keenly aware that the species are not identical, only closely related.<br />CHIMPANZEE POLITICS begins by introducing the highly individualized personalities of the chimpanzees de Waal studied, and then progresses to specific examples of political behavior: power plays, diplomacy, perks at the various levels of the hierarchy, and the traits that give rise to this complicated chimpanzee social structure.  Photographs, both black-and-white and color, serve to further document de Waal's observations.  Although many people have made much of how this work illuminates human behavior, it is ultimately about chimps, not people.<br />This book was written for the layman, and its ease of reading makes it accessible to a wide range of readers.  Highly readable and insightful, CHIMPANZEE POLITICS would make a strong addition to the libraries of those interested in the nature of primates, both human and non-human.	2003-10-31
920912:US	52801489	RO08ZDS779NLH	0375705856	963629300	Plainsong	Books	5	191	199	N	Y	A quiet and graceful tale of a small prairie town	PLAINSONG is one of those novels that sneaks up on a reader, beginning with understated prose and culminating with such authorial affection that the reader does not want to leave the fictional world.  Haruf follows the lives of several characters in rural Holt, Colorado - Guthrie, an honest school teacher whose wife has suffered a nervous breakdown; his two sons, Ike and Bobby, who find themselves facing death, independence, and growing up; Victoria Roubideaux, a pregnant teenager thrown out of her mother's house; the McPherons, Harold and Raymond, bachelor brothers who know more about cattle prices and corn cribs than they do about people; and Maggie Jones, the woman who connects them.<br />I did not fall in love with this novel until the hundredth page or so, and then I could not put it down.  The narrative flows like a meandering river - steadily but without visible ripples on the surface - and so it takes time to become fully invested in Haruf's characters.  Fortunately, the characterizations, fictional details and the quality of the prose are strong enough from the start to keep one reading.  The rhythms of life in Holt and the honest, almost innocent, way its citizens face their trials give this novel a graceful elegiac quality.<br />PLAINSONG is a quiet character-driven novel that evokes small town life on the American Plains.  I heartily recommend it to readers who like this kind of fiction.	2003-10-30
923181:US	52801489	R1OREK3OQNOZ85	0873526996	89664329	MLA Style Manual and Guide to Scholarly Publishing, 2nd Edition	Books	5	47	48	N	N	Advanced MLA Style	Gibaldi's MLA STYLE MANUAL AND GUIDE TO SCHOLARLY PUBLISHING describes itself perfectly.  This fine reference book is designed for academics in the humanities who must adhere to the MLA style when writing papers, both for publication and advanced coursework.  Not an introduction to MLA style, this book aims to guide the reader through the finer intricacies of scholarly writing by covering topics such as the proper use of punctuation, including slashes, square brackets, and semi-colons; using proper names from non-English speaking countries; questions of capitalization; abbreviations; and language and style.  The author devotes an entire section to the legal issues of publishing academic papers, and another to thesis and dissertation formats. Perhaps the most detailed and helpful section concerns documentation and the format for citations, from corporate papers to electronic sources to books without page numbers.  For those preparing for publication, the author offers practical guidelines for formatting manuscripts. Gibaldi's explanations are always clear and precise.<br />I highly recommend this manual for upper-level undergraduates, graduate students, and professors in the humanities.  (Scientific style is somewhat different.)  If you are just beginning to familiarize yourself with MLA style, you might feel more comfortable with Gibaldi's other stylebook, MLA HANDBOOK FOR WRITERS OF RESEARCH PAPERS.	2003-10-28
923380:US	52801489	R2HI40MWSODBO2	0873529863	600744907	MLA Handbook for Writers of Research Papers	Books	5	52	56	N	Y	An essential book for college students	With his MLA HANDBOOK, Gibaldi has written one of the best stylebooks for college students.  Accessible yet detailed enough to help students navigate tricky issues of citations and format, this book offers excellent advice for writing term papers. The electronic citation section is especially helpful since many style manuals have not been properly updated to embrace contemporary research practices.<br />This book should be on every college student's shelf.  For those already well-versed in MLA style, consider Gibaldi's more advanced MLA STYLE MANUAL AND GUIDE TO SCHOLARLY PUBLISHING.	2003-10-28
948357:US	52801489	R39AK8VH62FDOC	0060093749	778409687	The Art of the Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Kundera's Art	This relatively small book (165 pages) offers an engaging peek into the mind of a brilliant novelist and scholar. Consisting of interviews, speeches, and published work, Kundera expounds on his literary beliefs about what makes a great novel. My favorite sections are the interviews because of their immediacy and accessibility, although the author's most profound insights arise from his discussion of other authors:  Kafka, Cervantes, Tolstoy, Flaubert, and others.<br />Writers, students of literature, and Kundera's faithful readers should find much to think about in these pages. This is not a light discourse on how to write a novel; Kundera takes his art seriously, in both deeply instinctive and scholarly ways.  Those looking for a how-to book would be well-served to look elsewhere.	2003-10-08
948627:US	52801489	R3INVDKR6YBV2X	0679745203	152918541	The English Patient	Books	5	110	112	N	N	A poetic tale of four haunted lives	Set at the end of World War II in an Italian villa, The English Patient brings together four unlikely characters:  Hana, an emotionally-wounded army nurse who refuses to leave her last patient even when ordered to evacuate; Caravaggio, a friend of Hana's father, thief and spy, a man who is drawn to Hana in ways he cannot articulate; Kip, an Indian sapper loyal to the British military who disarms bombs by day, loves Hana by night; and the mysterious burned invalid, the English patient of the title, who unites them all in unexpected ways.  Told in poetic, often elliptical language, this novel demands to be savored instead of read voraciously.  The images are just as likely to be visually precise as they are inexplicable.  Unlike the movie, which concentrates on the love story between the English patient and the woman he loved, the novel is more about the confusing impulses that lead to both passion and danger in all the characters.<br />Serious readers of literature should read this novel more than once, for its subtleties, imagery, and the force of its lyricism.  More casual readers may find it tough reading, not because the language is inaccessible but because of the way Ondaatje backs into his story.  Those who stick with the author's poetic turns will be well-rewarded by the end.	2003-10-08
948633:US	52801489	RG9LN7RFZ9ZTF	0060542217	214694261	American Woman: A Novel	Books	5	12	20	N	N	Wow - engrossing, thoughtful, artfully told	Susan Choi's latest novel completely took me by the throat from its opening pages to the final scene.  While one could say this is a fictionalized account of the Patty Hearst kidnapping, it focuses mostly on Jenny Shimada (modeled after real-life revolutionary Wendy Yoshimura), a fugitive who is entrusted with the well-being of three scraggly revolutionaries on the run, one of which turns out to be the heiress.  Jenny's relationship with Pauline (the Patty Hearst character), a woman who is both victim and victimizer, forms the core of the story, although the novel covers much more ground than that.  Choi details the specifics of radical politics in the 1970's, the precautions and paranoia of fugitives, the realities of class and racial differences, as well as pivotal moments in the lives of her characters.  The story is richly imagined, with startling descriptions filling the gaps between facts.  By evoking the time of Vietnam War protests, free love, hatred of class oppression, and the overwhelming urge to change the world, Choi provides a touching framework to the story of a kidnapped heiress and the people who believed in their right to &quot;convert&quot; her.<br />Choi's writing is exceptional - it is weighted by a hard lyricism, the kind that feels practical and beautiful at once.  The characters are fully imagined and engaging.  Even Pauline, who is at first overshadowed by her captors/comrades, becomes astoundingly real.  Jenny, though, is Choi's real accomplishment:  she is a woman who embraces the radical politics of class and yet has the strength to question them.  Intelligent, independent, somehow both a pragmatist and an idealist, she is a memorable creation that gives this novel a vibrancy it might not have had otherwise.<br />I highly recommend this novel for anyone looking for a thought-provoking and skillfully told novel.  Those who are looking for something fast-paced should steer clear, however, since the strength of this novel lies more in quiet moments than in action.moments than in action.	2003-10-08
966103:US	52801489	R29SXDX1IH7M79	0140513639	827404325	The Penguin Dictionary of Literary Terms and Literary Theory (Penguin Dictionary)	Books	5	35	36	N	N	A must-have for students and teachers of literature	This comprehensive dictionary of literary terms covers much, much more than any other book I've found.  It concisely defines literary periods, critical schools, artistic movements, techniques, genres, structural elements, and the derivations of each.  No term is too obscure for this volume. Want to know what a rime &eacute;quivoqu&eacute;e is?  Forget what is meant by post-modernism?  What was the Florida Street group and with whom did the members identify?  Need classic examples of a parody? How does the word &quot;forensics&quot; apply to poetry? You'll find it all in this book of nearly 1000 pages.<br />This is a highly valuable book for anyone deeply interested in literature and its expressions.	2003-09-23
991907:US	52801489	R2RQMR4U6FZOG	037570910X	292207917	The Feast of Love: A Novel	Books	5	35	40	N	N	Love - both mistaken and real	Charles Baxter, an acclaimed master of the short story, proves himself equally adept as a novelist in The Feast of Love.  The writer &quot;Charlie&quot; scrambles out of bed late at night because of a recurrent nightmare and decides to take a walk.  A few blocks from his house, he encounters Bradley, an acquaintance and fellow insomniac who is walking his dog (also named Bradley.)  There, in the middle of the night in Ann Arbor, Bradley the human dictates the title and characters of the novel Charlie should be writing.  What follows then is pure structural brilliance:  Charlie, as an invisible interviewer, pursues the &quot;real&quot; people who have touched Bradley's life: ex-wives Kathryn and Diana, young employees Chlo&eacute; and Oscar, neighbors Harry and Esther - and the people who affect them.  Each character tells a part of the story in his or her own voice.  Soon, Charlie the interviewer fades into the background, emerging only when details that he has revealed at the beginning appear in the lives of his characters and thus remind the reader that, in true metafiction style, this fiction has a creator.<br />These love stories tell of mistaken love and true love  - and the heartbreak that comes with both.  Although they begin as separate tales, by the end they converge, bringing the novel together in a heartwarming whole.  Baxter's prose is, as always, precisely clear.  The distinct voices of the narration are superbly handled, especially in the case of Chlo&eacute;, who is the most memorable character in the novel.<br />Charles Baxter fans should not pass up this extraordinary novel.  If you like the metafiction in Ian McEwan's Atonement or the quirkiness of Anne Tyler's characters, you should appreciate this novel.	2003-09-01
996415:US	52801489	R1ZGR9SEJUNKHD	0385507607	23679385	The Probable Future (Hoffman, Alice)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Not Practical Magic or Turtle Moon, but it has its charms	The  Probable Future opens in familiar Alice Hoffman territory:  in a New England town, Jenny Sparrow frets over the legacy her daughter Stella will receive upon waking on her thirteenth birthday.  All Sparrow woman - and they are all women - find their one \\"talent\\", always something magical or supernatural, on this day.  The first Sparrow, Rebecca, could not feel pain while Jenny's mother Elinor can instantly detect a lie.  Jenny herself dreams other people's dreams.  In true Hoffman fashion, the gift Stella receives affects not only the direction of her life but of those who love her - Jenny, Elinor, Jenny's errant ex-husband Will; Will's brother Matt;  Liza, the owner of the town tea house; Hap, Stella's new best friend; and Brock Stewart, Elinor's doctor and companion.<br />While parts of this novel are groaningly familiar, Hoffman deftly moves from these moments to something more solid and truthful.  The author has her own gift, that of confident narration. Her characterizations are memorably detailed, with the portrayal of Brock Stewart perhaps the most touching  I have encountered in her fiction.  Unlike in Turtle Moon and Practical Magic, the magic realism here is not as much a crucial part of the story as it is an overlay.  Even though Stella's gift does prompt a journey back to the Sparrows, the reasons seem forced and the action unnecessary.  This story would be every bit as moving without the Sparrow women's gifts, fireflies that ignite, and bees that demand politeness. Some fans might be disappointed by the lack of seamless integration of magic and realism in this novel, but others will be thankful the author did not force it upon a story which has its most honest moments between ordinary people.  Love and the author's literary expressions of its intricacies figure heavily, verging on sentimentality, but again, Hoffman seems to instinctively know when to abandon this direction just her writing is in danger of becoming maudlin.<br />Turtle Moon and Practical Magic remain Alice Hoffman's most inventive novels; however, The Probable Future has its own charms.  Quiet, loving, and upbeat, this novel is more likely to appeal to women than to men.tical Magic remain Alice Hoffman's most inventive novels; however, The Probable Future has its own charms.  Quiet, loving, and upbeat, this novel is more likely to appeal to women than to men.	2003-08-28
1000818:US	52801489	R3P1O7QG0YVRUD	0972429506	254837785	Walter Falls	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Man against himself	In his debut novel, Steven Gillis tackles the tortured existence of a jealous man.  Financial advisor Walter Brimm suspects his wife Gee of having an affair with Tod, the editor of a progressive press.  Walter hatches a scheme to not only topple his rival, but to improve his own standing with his wife.  The trouble is, Walter doesn't have the stomach to execute his plan without remorse, as much as he feels driven to complete it.  Single-minded in his jealousy and plagued by guilt, Walter finds himself at the mercy of his own choices as he pushes relentlessly forward.  Largely told in Walter's voice (see note in next paragraph), WALTER FALLS is a classic story of man against himself.<br />Gillis's characterizations are generally solid and believable, with the principals Walter, Gee, and Tod fully drawn.  Lesser characters, even those pivotal in the plot, are less distinctive, even forgettable, which lessens the impact of the ending.  However, the main flaws of this otherwise smoothly written novel are an overabundance of mundane details regarding Walter's plot/career and a jarring point of view change more than halfway through the novel.  This last is particularly troublesome, as the reader has become comfortable with Walter's voice as narrator.  This late switch to the perspectives of multiple characters seriously inhibits the pacing and the drive of the story, especially since the first two characters in this section are completely new.  The reader, already immersed in Walter's story, must scramble to determine who these characters are and why they are important.  Yes, it's interesting to hear briefly from Gee, but not with only forty pages to go.  As a result of the switch, Walter's voice, interspersed with the others, becomes lost and weak.<br />Despite its flaws, WALTER FALLS shows remarkable promise.  The smooth writing, confident characterizations, and mature sensibility mark the arrival of a literary talent.  Steven Gillis is a novelist to watch.	2003-08-24
1037424:US	52801489	R1QTMYWAPT64X4	157366099X	939311331	Soul Resin	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A cross-genre novel:  literary horror	C. W. Cannon sets up an intriguing premise in SOUL RESIN, his first and ambitious novel.  A disaffected college dropout, Mills Loomis Mills, develops the ability to hear bleeding, even from a distance, and to sense death.  This &quot;talent&quot; intensifies after the brutal murder of his girlfriend April.  He finds himself visited by a headless man who speaks of soul resin, a mysteriously powerful material derived from the aged and undisturbed of a murder victim.  Once unambitious, Mills is now obsessed with activating the special properties of soul resin.  Meanwhile, Mills's former history professor, Rafe Vidrine, has been contacted by a long-dead New Orleans woman, Jessamine, who wants Mills's search for soul resin halted.  Cannon switches with adroitness between the voices of these characters and a few others, including (pseudo)historical accounts, lending a multi-layered texture to the novel.  The themes revolve around the history of race relations and politics in New Orleans and their implications for residents of the present day, as well as the question of delineating between dead and alive, past and present.<br />Slow to begin and even slower to clarify itself, SOUL RESIN eventually reaches a level of tension that drives the book inexorably towards its conclusion.  At times, voices merge, then diverge, demanding concentration on the part of the reader. By the end, every technical choice Cannon makes becomes clear. My main complaint with the book is the author's occasional tendency to dip too far into his esoteric theories of the dead.  Because of this, the ending itself emerges as too finely constructed, too forced around the author's intent, to be fully satisfying.  However, the meat of the novel is excellent - bloody decay presented in a startlingly original manner.  Ghosts have past lives and agendas, some stronger than those of the living, and the &quot;real&quot; characters seem at their mercy. Once readers get into this story, they won't be able to put it down.<br />I don't recommend this book for casual readers and those hungry for Stephen King-like horror.  SOUL RESIN is an intellectually challenging book that is electrified with a sensationalist plot.  Serious readers, especially those who admire experimental works, will enjoy their introduction to this fine writer.it down.<br />I don't recommend this book for casual readers and those hungry for Stephen King-like horror.  SOUL RESIN is an intellectually challenging book that is electrified with a sensationalist plot.  Serious readers, especially those who admire experimental works, will enjoy their introduction to this fine writer.	2003-07-24
1037751:US	52801489	R3N6UR9UKULO89	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A riveting, intelligent thriller	Written with both intelligence and breathless pacing, THE DA VINCI CODE is the perfect thriller.  The curator of the Louvre, Jacques Sauni&egrave;re, is attacked late at night in the deserted museum.  Left to die with a wound he knows will be fatal, he fears his ancient secret will perish with him and so desperately struggles in his last minutes to construct a series of cryptic messages, all designed to reveal the location of the truth.  The bizarre murder scene orchestrated by Sauni&egrave;re seems to implicate Harvard symbologist Robert Langdon,  who happens to be in Paris for a conference.  When, unaware that he is a suspect, Langdon is brought to the crime scene by police captain Bezu Fache, he meets Sophie Neveu, the cryptologist on the scene.  Together, Langdon and Neveu work frantically against time and personal safety to uncover Sauni&egrave;re's hidden life.  All clues point to the existence of a clandestine and powerful group, the Priory of Sion, and as the two track down and solve the clues, both historical and present-day, the shocking truth gradually begins to emerge.<br />THE DA VINCI CODE, with its plot revolving around a secret religious society, has echoes (pardon the pun!) of Umberto Eco's FOUCAULT'S PENDULUM, although Dan Brown's novel is less dense and more easily read.  Brown's research into alternative Christian history may startle some people, perhaps even offend them, but the premise makes for an original thriller, one which isn't about terrorism or failed diplomacy or common murder.  I found the author's head-on acknowledgement of current technology refreshing for the genre. For example, when characters use a cell phone or travel in a stolen vehicle or use a credit card, there are realistic implications that many thriller authors might have conveniently ignored.  As odd as it sounds, these details make THE DA VINCI CODE the bestseller it is; it embraces the modern world in the race to discover a historical treasure.  Almost every plot twist is both logical and surprising.  Even those elements that can be easily foreseen end up with plot complications that enrich them, thus making this book a satisfying read.  Though the ending is not as strong as the rest, this book will give readers much to consider after they have finished reading it.<br />THE DA VINCI CODE delivers everything a reader would want in a thriller - and more. Perfect for vacation or weekend reading, this 454 page novel will keep readers entertained from start to finish.  I highly recommend this book for a general readership, excepting those offended by an unorthodox look at Christianity.  As thrillers go, THE DA VINCI CODE is one of the best.nd surprising.  Even those elements that can be easily foreseen end up with plot complications that enrich them, thus making this book a satisfying read.  Though the ending is not as strong as the rest, this book will give readers much to consider after they have finished reading it.<br />THE DA VINCI CODE delivers everything a reader would want in a thriller - and more. Perfect for vacation or weekend reading, this 454 page novel will keep readers entertained from start to finish.  I highly recommend this book for a general readership, excepting those offended by an unorthodox look at Christianity.  As thrillers go, THE DA VINCI CODE is one of the best.	2003-07-23
1046652:US	52801489	R1ASWKZZ7MJKW4	0375508562	520161075	The Demon in the Freezer: A True Story	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Another viral thriller for Preston	By now, with his third book about infectious agents (after THE HOT ZONE and THE COBRA EVENT), Richard Preston has firmly established himself as a virus nerd.  His writing bursts with the thrill of discovering new outbreaks of disease and the tiny viruses responsible for epidemics.  In THE DEMON IN THE FREEZER, Preston sets out to describe the horrors of the smallpox virus and its potential as a biological weapon. He charts the history of the disease, the progress of the eradication campaign begun in the 1960's, and the development of super-strains designed to kill large numbers of people.  In an era without natural occurrences of smallpox, people have forgotten how horrific the disease truly is, and Preston makes sure his readers understand by graphically describing the progression of the disease from the first appearance of a centrifugal rash to the uncontrollable blistering, the collapse of the immune system, and, in some cases, the hemorraghic destruction of internal organs.  The chapters on smallpox itself are framed by the anthrax attacks of October 2001. The possibility of biological warfare - by terrorists, a nation, or a disgruntled virologist - looms large in this book.<br />At times, the book is repetitive, as though the author did not trust his readers to remember what he wrote earlier. The book also suffers from a loose construct - a skipping around from small pox to Ebola to anthrax as well as among the various principals in viral research - that seems to defy logic at times.  Some of the anecdotes seem inserted merely to ratchet up the level of suspense.  However, despite these flaws, THE DEMON IN THE FREEZER is a riveting narrative.  Anyone who does not believe smallpox is a real threat should read this book.  The insights into virology and genetic engineering are geared for the layman, making the text accessible to a wide audience.<br />I highly recommend this book for readers with a fascination of infection and viruses.  While not as tightly written as THE HOT ZONE, this book is yet another Preston's horror story, complete with suspense and gore.n as THE HOT ZONE, this book is yet another Preston's horror story, complete with suspense and gore.	2003-07-16
1048239:US	52801489	RCUZ0PRGKZPAN	0375724370	924994086	Anil's Ghost: A Novel	Books	5	16	20	N	N	The periphery of a civil war	Michael Ondaatje has brilliantly evoked the horrors of the civil war in his native Sri Lanka by focusing on the people not directly involved in the war but nonetheless affected by it on a deep, personal level. Anil Tissera returns to her native Sri Lanka as a Western forensic anthropologist charged with investigating accusations of war crimes. Although she works for an international human rights group, she is on her own, except for the Sri Lanka government appointed anthropologist Sarath whose loyalties and motives are unknown and therefore suspect.  When Anil and Sarath come into possession of several skeletons, one of which they nickname Sailor, they realize they have evidence of government atrocities.  Now, through their clandestine scientific work, they must prove it.  As they delve deeper into their investigation, they encounter others who bring their own stories to the novel.<br /><br />Although Ondaatje primarily follows the lives, both past and present, of Sarath and Anil, the most powerful - and in the end the most memorable - character is Gamini, Sarath's younger brother and a doctor at the Colombo hospital.  His presence in the book provides the balance necessary to see beyond the specific incident involving Sailor and into the greater arena of a country torn apart by violence. Ananda, too, provides an intriguing yet murky layer as the eye-painter, a man trained in the sacred art of painting eyes on statues of the gods.<br /><br />Written in clear, straightforward prose, the narrative itself is non-linear, moving through time as it explores the complexity of the characters. Despite the structure, readers should find the novel easy to follow. This is not a dense, lyrical novel; the poetry here resides in brief, intimate moments that the author allows the reader to glimpse.<br /><br />The power of this work derives from the varied lives that touch upon Anil's investigation.  Although the novel could have been developed more completely, it leaves a lasting impression that only the best writing can achieve. I wavered between giving it four or five stars, but, because I can't stop thinking about the book, I decided it deserved my top rating.<br /><br />If you are looking for something upbeat, obviously you should avoid this book.  Readers of literary, political, and international fiction will find a true treasure in these pages.<br /><br />-- Debbie Lee Wesselmannbest writing can achieve. I wavered between giving it four or five stars, but, because I can't stop thinking about the book, I decided it deserved my top rating.    If you are looking for something upbeat, obviously you should avoid this book.  Readers of literary, political, and international fiction will find a true treasure in these pages.    -- Debbie Lee Wesselmann	2003-07-15
1060497:US	52801489	R1E93KN8BT8Y0N	0060005556	187103372	Last to Die (Jack Swyteck Novel)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	A good legal thriller	Before picking up LAST TO DIE, I had never heard of James Grippando, and I was pleasantly surprised by this smoothly written legal thriller.  Jack Swyteck, a Miami defense lawyer, is approached by his best friend Theo to represent his brother Tatum, a one-time contract killer who believes he is going to be implicated in the murder of Sally Fenning.  Sally's tragic past has strange implications in what unfolds next:  she has left 46 million dollars to six potential beneficiaries, but only the last alive will receive the money.  Who is the mysterious sixth beneficiary?  Why did Sally leave her money to these six, all of whom appear to be enemies?  What connects them?  What did Sally hope to achieve?  And most pressing of all, who is murdering them one by one?<br />Jack is a likeable protagonist.  He is earnest, intelligent, professional, with a soft spot for kids.  He is one of the few legal heroes of the genre who looks at his career as a job and not the driving force of his life.  What spurs him onward is his own curiosity.  I did object to Jack's treatment of one character (and I can't specify without ruining the plot), a reaction that seemed excessively harsh and unforgiving given the circumstances and Jack's emotional attachment to the character.<br />Grippando's writing is unobtrusive - not noteworthy but smooth enough to propel the story forward. For a thriller, the suspense does not reach adrenalin-pumping levels, although Grippando kept me interested throughout by his judicious meting out of details.  I did lose some interest as Grippando took me to Africa, a portion of the book that reads more like a travelogue than a thriller. However, my main complaint with this novel is the weak ending. It lacks the oomph of a first-rate thriller, although the rest comes close.<br />This book's undemanding yet exciting premise is perfect for beach or airplane reading, and for anyone desiring pure entertainment.  Those who love legal thrillers should definitely add Grippando to their reading lists.  I'm looking forward to Grippando's next book.ppando to their reading lists.  I'm looking forward to Grippando's next book.	2003-07-05
1067380:US	52801489	R1KW5Z2PK9UOJW	0425189961	147238946	A Buried Lie	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A disappointment after a strong debut	Roberta Isleib's sophomore effort (after her debut SIX STROKES UNDER) continues where her first left off, with Cassie Burdette struggling to make it on the LPGA tour after surviving the rigors of Q-school.  She is the pro golfer assigned to a foursome in a pro-am tournament, but, when one of the foursome - a single mother and workaholic who is concerned about the introduction of a potentially miracle drug - turns up dead the next morning in her hotel room, Cassie launches her own investigation into the death.  Convinced that the woman was murdered and did not commit suicide as the police quickly conclude, Cassie sets out to uncover the truth.<br />The idea behind the series - that a rookie professional athlete stumbles into murder investigations - is a good one, especially since Isleib provides intriguing details about the sport of golf.  Unfortunately, unlike SIX STROKES UNDER, the suspense in this novel seems mechanical and undeveloped, almost as though the author rushed the writing of it.  Isleib throws so many red herrings into the brew that the eventual culprit is lost, making the revelation a kind of \\"Who???\\" moment.  The characters don't develop much beyond the first novel, and the dual conflict of unsolved murder and tournament-in-progress lacks drive, perhaps because the stakes seem low.  I found it difficult to care about the outcome.<br />Still, Roberta Isleib has talent.  She has hatched a great idea for a series that deserves another look when her next novel is released.  I suspect that A BURIED LIE is more of a sophomore slump than anything else.  If you liked her first, then you should definitely read this one so you won't miss out on the details that build the next installment.  Golfers especially should find this novel of interest.	2003-06-30
1073051:US	52801489	RTXS3R3UK0ERU	4770019874	788129177	Japanese for Busy People I: Kana Version	Books	4	15	21	N	N	Japanese for business people	I watched my teenage daughter learn Japanese from this series over the past year, and I am amazed about how quickly she learned to speak elementary Japanese using these textbooks.  I recommend those new to the language to begin not with the Kana (Japanese symbols) version, but with the English phonetic version.  Until the basic Kana characters and their pronunciation are mastered, this book can be daunting, especially if one is attempting to learn the language independently.  Still, the transition must be made eventually.  My daughter's Japanese class began with the phonetic version and then moved halfway through the year to the Kana version.  (My daughter still feels it necessary to refer occasionally to the English textbook.)<br />I found the text to be straight-forward and the directions easy to understand.  The dialogues are geared more toward business people than those interested in, say, history.  You will learn how to introduce people, give (and understand!) directions, buy items in a store, etc.  Despite this practicality, this book should not be confused with a crash course in travelor's phrases.  Although the vocabulary is biased toward business (one of my daughter's first Japanese words meant conference room), this book aims to give the student a serious and solid foundation for the eventual mastery of Japanese.  In this version, katakana and hirigana characters are used in all dialogues, examples, vocabulary building, and grammar, although brief instructions are written in English.  (Kanji is reserved for more advanced textbooks.)<br />I recommend those serious about learning Japanese to purchase both this, the Kana version, and the English version. If you can only afford one and if you have no basis in the language, you might want to buy the phonetic textbook instead.  However, since the mastery of Japanese characters is essential for progressing, this book is a valuable tool.	2003-06-25
1073895:US	52801489	R1WWT3O9WXL8TI	0872864227	310605715	Indigenous: Growing up Californian	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Intimate, intelligent, and thought-provoking	INDIGENOUS is a rare book:  a memoir that offers both intimacy and a sharp-eyed look at a variety of social issues.  Cris Mazza grew up in southern California outside of San Diego as one of five children, but, as she makes clear from the first page, she is not a stereotypical Californian.  She is not blonde, does not surf, has no interest in acting.  Her California is a gritty terrain - scrubby land populated by ant lions, bird dogs, and sand crabs.  The daughter of educators by vocation and scavengers by avocation, she grew up hunting, clamming at the beach, searching through the landfill for soda bottles to redeem for spending money, and playing with and studying the indigenous creatures she encountered.  Her views on ecology come from knowing both the before and the after, and by attempting to understand the forces that come into play. But Mazza is not an environmentalist; she is a fiction writer who has set out to share the complexity of her experiences.  In these personal essays, Mazza uses her life as a touchstone to pose questions we should all be asking.  In the chapter on her failed marriage to a San Diego symphony musician, she explores the reasons behind - as well as the repercussions of - America's view on the arts.  As she discusses both her mother's stroke and her own volunteer work in the children's wing of a nursing home, she poignantly evokes the difficult role of being a caregiver while exploring what it means when the body cannot perform the most basic of human activities - walking and talking. She conjures up her preteen days of wanting to be a boy in the 1970's when the male gender seemed to have all the fun and advantages.  She writes of raising her Shetland sheepdogs to be champion show dogs, thus examining the intricate relationship between humans and animals.  All the essays are punctuated by black-and-white photographs of Mazza and her family.  These images serve as anchors to Mazza's writing; they add to the atmosphere and wonder of what is written within these pages.<br />Mazza writes with clear-eyed passion for her subject matter.  Under her touch, ordinary subject matter becomes extraordinary.  Her story contains none of the sensationalist topics of many high-profile memoirs; instead, it revels in the quiet details of an unconventional life.  This book is exactly what a memoir should be:  intimate, intelligent, and thought-provoking.  Certainly fans of Mazza's fiction should read INDIGENOUS to understand the background from which her stories and novels spring.  However, even those without a familiarity of her work will enjoy Mazza's stories about growing up in rural California and then taking that experience into a much larger world.is written within these pages.  <br />Mazza writes with clear-eyed passion for her subject matter.  Under her touch, ordinary subject matter becomes extraordinary.  Her story contains none of the sensationalist topics of many high-profile memoirs; instead, it revels in the quiet details of an unconventional life.  This book is exactly what a memoir should be:  intimate, intelligent, and thought-provoking.  Certainly fans of Mazza's fiction should read INDIGENOUS to understand the background from which her stories and novels spring.  However, even those without a familiarity of her work will enjoy Mazza's stories about growing up in rural California and then taking that experience into a much larger world.	2003-06-25
1089413:US	52801489	RQT4NXJI0FIAE	1581410670	675518600	Miles of Experience	Books	3	7	9	N	N	A memoir sprinkled with short fiction	Boris Zubry has written an unusual book:  personal essays punctuated by short stories, all inspired by his experiences worldwide.  He begins MILES OF EXPERIENCE with fiction about a father and son living in an unspecified part of the Arab world  and who come into tragic contact with drug dealers driving American cars.  The next chapter, one of the author's strongest, is a personal essay titled \\"Cannon\\", which details Zubry's discovery of a cannon at a Washington antique show and what becomes of it.  Zubry is at his best when describing simple moments:  building a cricket cage out of toothpicks, sharing his house with a lizard in Saudi Arabia, or watching, with his brother-in-law at his side,  a Soviet construction vehicle become mired in the mud for the fifth day in a row.<br />Zubry's style is simple and often repetitive, easily readable and rhythmic.  His essays tend to feel like stream-of-consciousness pieces because they meander from one scene to another until the end is reached. Zubry never shrinks from expressing his opinions, as unpopular as they might be;  at times he goes on at length about his judgment of a particular situation or person.  Although this can get tiring and even offensive, MILES OF EXPERIENCE would be a different book without it.  Clearly, these stories and opinions mean much to the author as they are told emphatically and with authority.<br />I recommend this book especially for readers who have an interest in the former Soviet Union, the Jewish experience, and the unique point of view of immigrants.	2003-06-13
1089972:US	52801489	R30GXWB2HN9CYU	1563151448	194602540	Wysard	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Well imagined fantasy	After I finished reading Carolyn Kephart's WYSARD, I wanted more - and there IS a second volume to this story of Ryel and his struggle against the evil soul Dagar.  Ryel, a boy raised on the Steppes as the son of a gruff farmer and a beautiful foreign mother, enters into the art of wizardry.  He trained by his mentor Edris to be the one wyzard powerful enough to defeat the body-dead but still powerful Dagar, an evil spirit bent on conquering the world. As an Overreacher, a wyzard who has crossed over to the realm of the dead and returned to the living, Ryel is both empowered and burdened by his art.  As he was marked by Edris to be a savior, so is he marked by Dagar to be one of his  rulers.<br />At times, Kephart's writing style and dialogue seem too stilted, as though she is relying on a pseudo-Middle Ages grammatical structure to give her novel atmosphere.  However, at other times, her prose is smoothly lyrical, written with beautiful logic.  Kephart's real strength, however, is her storytelling ability.  While she takes far too many pages to set up the central conflict, I couldn't put down this novel once I had passed the midway point. By the end, the story was incredibly engrossing.  Unfortunately, in this novel nothing is resolved.  It ends with a cliff-hanger, necessitating the reading of Kephart's second volume to discover Ryel's fate.<br />Kephart clearly has talent.  She has imagined her fantasy world well, with details that make it come alive for the reader.  I only wish that much of the novel had been tighter and more judiciously cut, perhaps combining it with the second volume into one 250 page novel.  Still, there is much to admire here.  Avid readers of fantasy especially will be intrigued by Kephart's writing.  While I could not give this novel four stars, three seems too few:  three and a half stars for an up-and-coming fantasy writer.	2003-06-13
1139525:US	52801489	R1KJKUC6U1DV58	0375701850	172755698	Hallucinating Foucault	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Scholarly madness	Patricia Duncker's HALLUCINATING FOUCAULT explores the relationship between scholar and subject matter, reader and writer, mentor and prot&eacute;g&eacute; - and the madness that connects them all.  The narrator is a male graduate student at Cambridge studying the novels of (fictitious) French &quot;wild boy&quot; Paul Michel and his enigmatic literary relationship to the philosopher Foucault.  When the narrator's girlfriend pushes him to locate the institutionalized Paul Michel, he begins to unravel the mystery of his subject with a growing and inescapable obsession.<br />The psychological twists of this novel are astoundingly powerful.  Duncker writes with a delicate authority that never loses it momentum.  Her characterizations are deft, and, in the case of Paul Michel, delightfully cryptic. She melds the substance of philosophy and scholarship with a moving love story that transcends both gender and sanity. To her credit, Duncker never overburdens her story with her themes but instead allows the story itself to carry their weight.<br />I highly recommend this novel for readers of literary fiction. You don't need to know anything about Foucault or scholarship to appreciate Duncker's exploration of madness, love, and the written word.	2003-05-01
1149264:US	52801489	R14DN6C3KHKE3Y	0452283825	635890063	Baggage	Books	3	5	9	N	Y	Navel gazing . . .	Emily Barr's BAGGAGE delivers a strong first half:  the protagonist, Lina Pritchett, has successfully hidden her past from her husband Tony, son Red, and the rest of Craggy Rock, Australia, a dusty and desolate town in the Outback.  Newly pregnant, Lina feels that her future is bright and secure; her past is something she can ignore.  However, when a group of backpackers arrive in Craggy Rock, everything Lina has carefully constructed begins to crumble.<br />Once Lina's secret is discovered by the public mid-way through the book, the suspense dies.  Because the characterization has been superficial, nothing remains to keep the reader interested in what happens to Lina and her family.  Instead, too many pages are devoted to the press outside Lina's door, to the obvious implications of her being discovered, and to the shallow, often-unbelievable actions of the journalists. Tony remains conveniently behind in another town, arriving only for a bland scene or two that do little to prepare the reader for the disappointing epilogue.  Eleven year old Red questions little and understands even less. As Lina closes herself in her mother-in-law's guest room, she becomes not only psychologically but also physically inert, resulting in a story that feels more like a plot outline than an expanding novel.<br />I read this book to the end only because it demanded so little of me.  Lina's voice is smart, realistic, and easy to like. The point-of-view of Lawrence, the journalist who uncovers Lina's secret, is less successful.  I found myself wishing that Barr had entered into these lives a little more fully, exploring the complexities of their ethics perhaps or the intricacies of their relationships. Unfortunately, Barr never takes her characters past the obvious.  Other reviewers have commented on the inappropriateness of the cover; I can only say that it must represent the self-absorbed and inconsequential navel-gazing of the second part. On the whole, the book is light and unchallenging, fluff with a modicum of suspense.nging, fluff with a modicum of suspense.	2003-04-22
1169548:US	52801489	R1UMOVEHEQE6W7	0060927216	424818217	Paula	Books	5	50	54	N	N	A passionate and startling memoir, written with love	Isabel Allende has made her name as a writer in the genre of magic realism, where fantastical events occur, often without warning.  When her daughter Paula collapsed into an irreversibly coma due to a rare disease, Allende found herself desperate for a story to tell her dying daughter.  This is the book that arose out of a mother's need to understand the past, the future, and the mysterious connection between the two.  Allende tells of events before her birth, of Chilean politics and how it affected her famously political family, of falling in love, of becoming a writer, of motherhood, of her journey through Paula's illness - while embracing the spirituality that pervades her fiction.  Surprisingly, the story of Allende's life bears remarkable resemblance, both in fact and in imagery, to her bestselling novel THE HOUSE OF SPIRITS.<br />While sadness frames this memoir, the core of it pulses with life and faith.  Beautifully written, with moments that will make you pause with admiration, this book is startling and powerful.  Every fan of Allende should read this, both for the context it provides for her writing and for the force of her storytelling.	2003-04-05
1170096:US	52801489	R2F95CRGJHJC8C	0786866179	725713503	The Naked Chef	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Eye-catching title, simple food	Jamie Oliver's first book based on his television series (no, the title does not refer to the chef but instead to his philosophy) is a fine entry in the cookbook market for those who prefer their meals on the plain but flavorful side.  Oliver excels in simplicity.  His stripped down recipes are easy to follow and don't require a lot of imagination to guess how they will taste.  For example, his six recipes for salad dressings fit on two pages; the recipe titles describe exactly what one gets.  While Oliver supplies a few recipes that I'll never try (Ravioli of Borage, Stinging Nettles, Marjoram, and Fresh Ricotta) and a few gourmet dishes (Spicy Squash, Basil, and Ricotta Tortellini with Crispy Herbs), most dishes will be familiar to those who dine out at mid-priced restaurants. The emphasis is heavily, though not exclusively, on pasta and Italian flavors.  (For ambitious cooks, Oliver supplies clear instructions on how to made pasta at home.) Meat recipes are often plain, without sauces or exotic ingredients; you'll find roast chicken, slow-cooked lamb shanks, and pork chops with thyme, lemon, and pesto. The fish and seafood dishes tend to use off-beat (for Americans) ingredients such as sardines, whole trout, and skate wings, although pan-seared tuna, a staple in restaurants nowadays, makes an appearance. Desserts are uninspired.<br />The strength of this cookbook is the no-nonsense style and the color plates that accompany the recipes.  I recommend this for beginning cooks and those who have simple tastes and are looking for something new.  Gourmet cooks, particularly those with a lot of cookbooks, are likely to find themselves bored with the selections.	2003-04-04
1173775:US	52801489	R22R7350QFU2L2	0451203755	550627631	The Train now Departing	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A skilled departure for Grimes	I picked up this slim book by Grimes because I was intrigued that this novelist, perhaps most famous for her mysteries and mainstream novels, would embark on a decidedly literary and less popular format, the novella. In THE TRAIN NOW DEPARTING, Grimes proves herself a versatile writer as comfortable with the subtlety of human interaction as she is with murder.  The two novellas contained within the 185 pages are thematically linked.  Each protagonist is a lonely, intelligent woman who meets regularly, for lunch or tea, with a man she struggles to decipher.  Through these encounters, each edges closer to understanding the core of herself.<br />\\"The Train Now Departing\\" is the stronger (and longer) of the two; both the woman and her companion, a travel writer, are richly imagined and imbued with puzzling traits which humanizes them. While I cannot conceive of how the woman and the travel writer would have met and why they have established such an obviously painful routine, their exchanges illuminate the novella with touching realism. The contrast between the meals the two main characters share and the meals the protagonist consumes alone is a brilliant device that lends emotional force to the ending.<br />\\"When the Mousetrap Closes\\" is much more lively than the first novella, and the protagonist Edith's interest in Archie Marchbanks, a famous actor, is much more believable.  However, the end of the novella suffers from gimmickry, cheapening everything that precedes it.  I wished that Grimes had left the ends of the story unraveled rather than tying them up as she did.  Despite this flaw, this novella has an almost irresistible charm.<br />These novellas are quiet and studied, with the emphasis on the inner lives of their protagonists. Readers who expect Grimes's genre fiction will be disappointed, but fans eager to explore another side of this author will be impressed by her range. I recommend this book only to those who understand - and embrace - the kind of departure Grimes has made.ure Grimes has made.	2003-04-01
1181846:US	52801489	RLDWRDSS1AAJA	0374199698	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	579	612	N	N	A terrific novel!	From the first sentence of Jeffrey Eugenides' MIDDLESEX, I was hooked by this complicated tale of a young girl who grows into a man.  The story of Cal Stephanides begins generations before his birth, in a small Greek village, when his grandparents succumb to incestuous desires.  Immigration to the United States keeps Desdemona and Lefty's secret intact - until their grandchild Cal reaches puberty. Told with both humor and earnestness, the story grows more engaging with every page.<br />The brilliance of this book emerges not from the superficial story of a hermaphrodite but from the context - historical, scientific, psychological, political, geographical - of Cal's birth and subsequent rebirth.  MIDDLESEX is about much more than gender confusion.  Cal's mixed gender can be taken as a metaphor for the experience of first- and second-generations born of immigrants.<br />While the context of this story provides the substance, the characters provide the vibrancy. Cal emerges as a reliable and likeable narrator. He is sensible, good-humored, and intelligent. The spectrum of his experiences provides a smooth transition between childhood and adult, enabling the reader to embrace the character as both male and female. Cal's family is affectionately portrayed, even with their failings.  (Cal's brother, Chapter Eleven, annoyed me with his name, a running gag, but even he ended up a full-blooded character by the end.)<br />Eugenides has written an expansive, compelling book.  Despite its length of over 500 pages, the novel is not a slow read - unless the reader wants it to be, to make it last.  Accessible, intelligent, well-paced and plotted, it should appeal to a wide range of readers.<br />I can't recommend this novel highly enough.	2003-03-25
1199288:US	52801489	RTGFWJUN5TWK0	0385479565	905671096	The Hot Zone: The Terrifying True Story of the Origins of the Ebola Virus	Books	5	158	172	N	N	A Nonfiction Thriller	In THE HOT ZONE, Richard Preston has woven epidemiological fact with the terrifying true story of how a strain of the Ebola virus came to the United States.  He details various outbreaks of hemorrhagic fevers, traces them to their possible origins, and provides a basic education about viral evolution and forensics, all couched in narratives that will keep you turning page after page. After you have read his graphic descriptions of what happens to people who contract the deadlier strains of Ebola, you will understand fully just how dangerous the Reston, Virginia incident could have been.<br />With its crisp language and pacing, THE HOT ZONE reads like an expert thriller novel, making its reality that much more horrifying. Not for the faint-hearted, this book will likely alter the way you view viruses and epidemics.<br />I highly recommend this book for a general adult readership.  (Teenagers under 16 may not be able to handle the highly disturbing descriptions Preston provides.)  If you haven't read this book before, you should, especially now in this time of bioterrorism and global travel.	2003-03-10
1203782:US	52801489	R3MVLXSDWARTPO	0696208555	343236788	New Flavors from Your Crockery Cooker (Better Homes and Gardens(R))	Books	3	3	3	N	N	I thought it would be better	Because of the title, I expected some intriguing recipes in this cookbook.  I'm not a natural crockpot cook, but a hectic life has driven me to it, so I'm always searching for slow cooker recipes with a gourmet edge.  This cookbook did not live up to my admittedly picky standards.  I probably have a fifty percent success rate with these recipes - some simply don't have the right melding of flavors while others are bland.  Many recipes don't even interest me enough to try. Still, the remaining fifty percent work well.  You have to use a cook's eye to discover them.<br />If you can buy only one cookbook for your crockpot, don't make it this one.  Still, it might make a good addition to your bookshelf, especially if you are tired of the recipes you already have.	2003-03-06
1216628:US	52801489	R19P162876MVJ5	0151008116	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	4	32	40	N	Y	A multi-layered journey	THE LIFE OF PI is, on the surface, a simple story:  Piscine Molitar Patel, the son of an Indian zookeeper, clings to a lifeboat after a cataclysmic shipwreck as his family and part of its zoo emigrate to Canada.  Unfortunately (and also fortunately, as the reader comes to understand), Pi finds that, although he is the only human aboard the lifeboat, he shares his craft with several animals from the zoo, both prey and predator.  Whether he survives this ordeal depends highly on his wits, the meager supplies on board, and his ability to understand the innate behavior of the animals.<br />This is not merely a story of survival at sea; it is an allegory not easily defined.  Martel devotes the first part of his book (roughly 100 pages) to the childhood of Pi as he seeks to understand animal behavior and the world's major religions.  Pi is drawn hungrily to faith and God, worshipping devoutly in the traditions of Hinduism, Christianity, and Islam.  When confronted by his three spiritual advisors and told he must choose one religion, he refuses because he finds comfort in them all.  He tells them he just wants to love God, and he quotes Gandhi: \\"All religions are true.\\"  This is the most important key to understanding the significance of Part 2, Pi's story at sea, which comprises the bulk of the book and which is rich in symbolism derived from many religions.  Most of this section is surprisingly riveting despite the mundane facts of survival.  When occasionally the narrative lags, Martel quickly rights it with a new insight or adventure.  The third part of the book is brief and humorous as two Japanese men interview Pi about his ordeal.  Through their skepticism, they force an alternate story from Pi.  While some people have criticized this final section as being tacked onto the book, the pivotal moment is contained here, with the stunning revelation that it doesn't matter which story one believes, as long as the beginning and the end are true.<br />This book can be enjoyed on two levels, the literal and the philosophic.  Martel's writing is engaging and detailed, containing a wealth of knowledge about a variety of topics.  The spirituality here is not heavy-handed but instead gentle and gauzy, brushing up against the narrative without showing its seams.<br />I highly recommend this for a general readership.  Book clubs will find much to discuss and decipher. Avid and casual readers alike will delight in the unusual mix of simplicity and depth contained in this award-winning  novel.oyed on two levels, the literal and the philosophic.  Martel's writing is engaging and detailed, containing a wealth of knowledge about a variety of topics.  The spirituality here is not heavy-handed but instead gentle and gauzy, brushing up against the narrative without showing its seams.     <br />I highly recommend this for a general readership.  Book clubs will find much to discuss and decipher. Avid and casual readers alike will delight in the unusual mix of simplicity and depth contained in this award-winning  novel.	2003-02-24
1223764:US	52801489	R3K7ECMLJ21EVP	0679760806	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Hilarious plot with a grave undercurrent	In THE MASTER AND MARGARITA, nothing is as it seems.  A foreign professor turns out to be Satan, currency transforms into worthless paper, and luxurious clothing vanishes off the bodies of respectable women.  The same can be said of the plot: on the surface, this novel is about the arrival of the Devil in Moscow and all the havoc he wreaks until he can settle his business with a failed novelist (the Master) who has written about Pontius Pilate.  However, Bulgakov's novel is not merely a story about  the Devil's antics; it is about oppression and persecution, about misguided government, about literary and personal self-importance, about devotion and bravery, about illusions.  The satire is thick and multi-layered, with allusions and symbols that have kept scholars busy since the novel surfaced in the late sixties.  Thankfully, you don't need any special knowledge to enjoy this hilarious send-up of life - political, literary, social - in the Soviet Union of the late 1920's, although the more you know about the Soviet Union and Bulgakov's life, the better you will understand the intent.<br />Despite the danger in writing such a mocking novel of the Soviet regime, Bulgakov obviously had enormous fun writing this book.  Who wouldn't want to turn a nosy neighbor into a pig, or behead an annoying control freak and then reattach his head?  How much fun to have a man hauled off to prison, not for the bribe he just accepted, but for possessing foreign currency he knows nothing about.  Satan's band itself is a ragtag group of dirty, bizarre-looking misfits who wiggle their way into Soviet society.  Surprisingly, the brilliance of this novel is not its humor; it is the expert way with which Bulgakov links Pontius Pilate's interaction with Jesus to the desolate life of a novelist and his lover by developing parallel plots that merge in the final pages.<br />I highly recommend this novel for readers of fine literature.	2003-02-18
1227313:US	52801489	R2HUZ6APCX0XIL	0894802046	261832178	The Silver Palate Cookbook	Books	5	61	62	N	N	One of my favorites!	THE SILVER PALATE COOKBOOK was one of the first cookbooks to introduce new American cuisine into the kitchens of ordinary homes.  With its emphasis on fresh ingredients and innovative dishes, it freed many cooks from mundane meals.  Now, of course, two decades after its first printing, many of the recipes no longer seem inventive.  Goat cheese and sun-dried tomatoes are no longer exotic ingredients, and balsamic vinaigrette can be found at almost every restaurant.  Now, instead of surprising cooks, THE SILVER PALATE COOKBOOK supplies them with a wonderful array of recipes that can liven up meal time.<br />Most of the recipes contained in this volume are relatively easy to prepare, with some requiring more time and effort than others.  The techniques do not require any special knowledge, and the recipes are logically laid out, with numbered steps and clear English.  You'll find easily assembled dishes such as &quot;Tomato, Montrachet, and Basil Salad&quot; as well as the much more complicated &quot;Layered Vegetable Terrine.&quot;  My favorite recipes are &quot;Marinated Beef Salad,&quot; &quot;Curried Butternut Squash Soup,&quot; &quot;Tarragon Chicken Salad,&quot; &quot;Skewer Shrimp and Proscuitto,&quot; &quot;Salmon Mousse,&quot; and &quot;Coconut Macaroons.&quot;  I can't come close to listing all the successful recipes I've prepared from this cookbook, although I occasionally find one that I don't like.  Because most of the ingredients are now readily available in a good supermarket, you can assemble what you need without hassle.<br />Anyone with a minimal amount of cooking experience should be able to succeed with these recipes.  They are especially great for company since you can select impressive recipes that don't require long hours in the kitchen.	2003-02-15
1227591:US	52801489	R27VHPADMN85O0	0028634691	638930194	Betty Crocker's Slow Cooker Cookbook (Betty Crocker Cooking)	Books	4	194	196	N	N	My gosh, Betty Crocker goes beyond pot roast!	I was reluctant to buy a crockpot, perhaps because I'm a little bit of a cookery snob.  I'm not a pot roast and meatloaf person; I prefer recipes with a little more zing and originality.  But when my friends insisted that recipes existed for much more interesting crockpot fare, I browsed through slow cooker books to see if they were right.  This is the cookbook that convinced me I should buy a crockpot.  Wow.<br />The Thai Chicken and the Mango Chutney Chicken Curry recipes quickly became favorites in my house.  There are also recipes for Cuban Black Beans and Rice, Lamb Dijon, and Squash and Apple Bisque as well as for the crockpot staples.  This cookbook isn't satisfied to offer a single stew recipe; it provides nine vastly different ones, using beef, pork, chicken, or even venison.  Somehow, good old-fashioned Betty Crocker realized that cooks like me didn't want to compromise much when it came to crockpot cooking.<br />I highly recommend this book for its non-traditional fare.	2003-02-15
1228319:US	52801489	R2UYIIV9TXXKHN	0140281649	702863006	Love in the Time of Cholera (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Masterful!	The title of Gabriel Garcia Marquez's novel says it all:  this is an epic story told with witty, often hilarious, insight about thwarted love.  Florentino is passionately and irrevocably in love with Fermina, but when Fermina abruptly calls off their courtship, he is helpless to stop her from marrying a physician.  Florentino must endure decades of unrequited love while his beloved  constructs a life around another man. But this novel is about so much more than the love Florentino harbors for Fermina.  This is about love in all difficult times, through social and political change, through obligation and approaching old age, through betrayal and bold declarations.  Fermina's husband Juvenal Urbino is as much a part of this novel as the two lovers.<br />As always, Garcia Marquez supplies engaging and surreal detail to his story.  Only a writer as skilled as he could succeed in exploring all the events leading to the death of a character who is trying to capture his pet parrot.  The absurd and fantastical happenings harbor sharp social commentary, elevating this novel from a trifle about love to a masterpiece.  As with all of Garcia Marquez's book, this novel is about gritty reality despite the playful, magic realist overlay.<br />You can feel the enormous satisfaction and fun Garcia Marquez had with this story.  He is truly one of the greatest writers to grace the literary landscape.  This book is a must-read.	2003-02-14
1228833:US	52801489	R9LFK921W8SUO	1573226068	907067822	Drown	Books	4	37	39	N	N	An important voice in literature	Junot Diaz writes fiction without flourish.  His words are stark, edgy, direct - and his stories cut through stereotype right to the quick of the truth.  DROWN pulses with the rhythms of Spanish and New Jersey accents as it explores lives in both The Dominican Republic and Jersey City.  Mostly adolescents and young adults, the characters struggle against a dimming or obscured future, and tend to live for the moment, even as they hope for something better. The most compelling stories are \\"Ysrael,\\" \\"Aurora,\\" \\"Edison, New Jersey,\\" and \\"How to Date a Browngirl, Blackgirl, Whitegirl, or Halfie.\\"  This is a brief book, only ten stories and only a few over 20 pages long, but it packs power with its brevity.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book for those with an interest in Latino  and/or multicultural fiction, and for those who enjoy short story collections.	2003-02-14
1233975:US	52801489	R1RF665UR88EU9	0929306244	931443861	Fifty-Fifty: A Novel in Many Voices	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A strong, compassionate tale of a Sikh family	In her first book, THE BRIDE WORE RED, Robbie Clipper Sethi established herself as a skilled cultural translator as she explored the lives of three American women and the families of the Indian men they married.  Now, with FIFTY-FIFTY, she introduces her readers to yet another Punjabi Sikh family, this one spread over four continents and struggling to adapt to their adopted lands.  Told with startling compassion and insight, this novel offers a complex and realistic view of what it means to be an immigrant.<br />Like Sethi's first book, which was described as a &quot;novel-in-stories,&quot; FIFTY-FIFTY is told through multiple voices, each with its own titled chapter.  From the Gill family matriarch Biji to her four children to her grandchildren, they each tell their part of the family history.  Although the chapters could stand alone as short stories, their real power comes from their compilation.  The best chapters are &quot;Exile,&quot; &quot;Three Sisters,&quot; &quot;The Curse of Life,&quot; and &quot;Double Mind.&quot;  Sethi writes with a no-nonsense style; however, the moments she chooses to reveal are lyrical. I could not help feeling for every one of these displaced individuals.  By the time I finished FIFTY-FIFTY, I did not want to leave these self-exiled characters who, despite all that they have suffered, continue to harbor hope.<br />I highly recommend this for readers of literary fiction and those interested in cross-cultural and immigrant issues.	2003-02-10
1239633:US	52801489	R1K163TI044014	0380728222	474183720	Next of Kin: My Conversations with Chimpanzees	Books	5	51	52	N	N	The closest you'll ever come to knowing another species	Roger Fouts has written an extraordinary book that combines insight with scientific fact as he relates his experiences with a special chimpanzee who changed the direction of his life. As a graduate student in experimental psychology at the University of Nevada, Fouts is given an assistantship to &quot;teach a chimpanzee to talk&quot; using modified American Sign Language, and thus begins his introduction to impishly clever Washoe.  Washoe is in almost every sense a &quot;person&quot;, with specific character traits, likes and dislikes, habits and methods.  When she is in danger of being dumped into a medical facility at the end of the study, Fouts fights to protect her against the woefully inadequate laws and accepted scientific procedures. His battle not only for Washoe but for all captive chimpanzees becomes the focus of his career.  Because Washoe and her companions have the ability to express themselves, this is at times a heartbreaking tale as Fouts and the reader discover how closely related chimps and humans truly are.  Through his passionate storytelling and his breadth of knowledge, Fouts gives readers an intimate glimpse into these fascinating non-human lives.<br />I cannot express adequately how moving and instructive this account is.  It will affect you on a deeply emotional level - I can't imagine how anyone can emerge from this story unchanged. I highly recommend this book for all readers, from teenagers to adults, from casual to serious readers.	2003-02-05
1241804:US	52801489	R2V05ACZ9AE6KZ	0452275490	420008687	The Waterworks	Books	4	9	11	N	N	An intriguing literary mystery	With THE WATERWORKS, E.L. Doctorow has written a fascinating literary mystery which peels back the layers of a late 1800's New York City.  A young freelance writer, Martin Pemberton, disappears after revealing that he believes he has seen his supposedly dead father.  His editor - McIlvaine and the narrator of the book - takes it upon himself to uncover the mystery surrounding the young man's disappearance.  As McIlvaine enters the seedy underworld of New York in pursuit of the young genius writer and the legacy of dishonesty his father has left him, he discovers more than he has bargained for. Doctorow vividly evokes a New York of a different era, and, in the process, creates a force of setting that becomes a character in its own right.<br />Doctorow is an excellent writer who adapts his style to his subject matter. Unfortunately, as other reviewers have noted, the stylistic quirk of ellipses gets annoying and more frequent as the novel progresses. Doctorow may have chosen this style of punctuation to imply that much in McIlvaine's New York was unspoken, implied, unfinished - but, even if that was the case, it doesn't serve to do much more than make the reader want to tear the words out of the narrator.  Despite this flaw, I thoroughly enjoyed this Doctorow novel, which, while not his best, certainly compares favorably with his body of work.<br />I recommend THE WATERWORKS for serious readers of literary and historical fiction.	2003-02-03
1242271:US	52801489	R15FL8162B45D8	0806958898	61723916	Mahale: A Photographic Encounter with Chimpanzees	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Stunning photographs, good text	For those who love chimpanzees, MAHALE is the perfect photographic look into their lives. Most of the 160 pages consist of full-page, glossy photographs of chimps and their habitat, taken in the Mahale Mountains National Park in Tanzania.  You'll see a contemplative young chimp dabbling his fingers in a mountain stream, five chimps arranged in a grooming line, a female lounging in her day nest, chimps feeding and hunting, nurturing, playing. Much of their social lives are captured within these pages. Perhaps unfortunately, the accompanying text, while well-written and interesting, is overshadowed by the first-rate photography. The text supplies insights into the lives studied here:  diet, social behavior, self-medicating techniques, adaptive behavior, and much more.  As with most books about chimpanzees, MAHALE has a foreword written by Jane Goodall.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in chimpanzees and other non-human primates.	2003-02-03
1242344:US	52801489	R2HWMC875COLI3	0026217457	36305798	Vegetarian Times Complete Cookbook	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Fairly good basic vegetarian cookbook	This cookbook, with its introduction to the concept of vegetarianism, seems geared toward the new vegetarian or to a non-vegetarian who must cook for one.  Most of the recipes are fairly simple but there are some, such as Scattered Sushi with Five Colors, that require considerable preparation time and specialized ingredients.  As a vegan pointed out to me, many of the dishes rely on cheese and dairy products, making it unsuitable for vegans, although there is a small section (14 recipes) devoted to soy-based dishes.  You'll also find sections on Under Thirty Minute Meals, Desserts, and Vegetarian Main Dishes.<br />All in all, this is a decent basic vegetarian cookbook.  It contains nothing extraordinary, but it does often vegetarians a wide range of recipes to choose from.	2003-02-03
1252062:US	52801489	R251Y7NSQCNFSV	0312241224	626514957	Birds of America: Stories	Books	5	43	47	N	N	A collection of stories worth reading over and over	Lorrie Moore's BIRDS OF AMERICA is a rarity: a story collection that arrives on the literary scene with such power that people still talk about it years after its original publication.<br />What's so special about Moore?  For one, she writes with an unusual mix of wry humor and deeply-rooted emotion.  Because the surface of her stories shimmer with laughs, the true meaning of the story can sneak up on readers, and when it hits, it does so with pure force. Her language is exact and unadorned, leading the reader precisely where Moore intends. Her ability to nail cultural and personal detail is extraordinary.<br />The most famous, and arguably the most successful, story is &quot;People Like That Are The Only People Here,&quot; the moving yet at times absurdist tale of a mother coping with the grave illness of her baby. At first, Moore seems almost coy with her character names - the Mother, the Baby, the Husband, the Surgeon - but they serve to mute the roiling fear running underneath in true Moore fashion until it can no longer be contained.<br />Not a single story in this collection fails, but some rise above others: &quot;Which is More Than I Can Say About Some People&quot;, &quot;Charades,&quot; &quot;Agnes of Iowa,&quot; and &quot;Terrific Mother.&quot;  Some of these stories will have you doubled over with laughter; others will make your heart ache.  Most will do both.<br />I highly recommend this book, even to people who don't normally read short stories.  If you have already read it, read it again.  You'll be surprised by how much surfaces the second time around.	2003-01-26
1252702:US	52801489	R42TTUAMLAR8Q	0385507593	548424525	Jennifer Government: A Novel	Books	4	17	22	N	N	Superbly entertaining!	Max Barry's second novel, JENNIFER GOVERNMENT, is a wild ride through the near future, when American consumerism and culture have consolidated much of the world under a single government.  People name themselves after the company they work for, and the unemployed are easily identifiable by their lack of surnames.  The novel opens with a bang when a lowly merchandiser, Hack Nike, gets off the elevator on the wrong floor and meets two men, both named John Nike, at the water cooler.  Hack is offered a guerilla marketing position and eagerly signs his contract before he realizes he has agreed to assassinate ten people as a way of boosting Nike's profits.  Meanwhile, a savvy and ambitious government agent, Jennifer Government gets wind of the plans.<br />To reveal more of what happens would be to ruin Max Barry's rambunctious plot, which bends and folds and ties itself in knots as the action heats up, involving the CEO's of other American corporations, the NRA, a disillusioned stockbroker, and a computer hacker named Violet ExxonMobil.  Although not as hilarious as Barry's first novel SYRUP, Barry's instinct for the absurd remains intact as he serves up his zany vision of a world run amuck.  The pacing is flawless, never letting up, always leaping ahead with new surprises, although near the end these constant turns of plot left me confused about where a particular character was, what he knew, who he knew and how.  Except during one heavy-handed scene near the end, Barry breezes his readers through the insanity of his futuristic world with skill and confidence.<br />Max Barry fans won't want to miss this novel.  This is an entertaining satire best read in a few sittings.  You won't find any deep insights here, but you will certainly get a few laughs and a sharp-eyed look at America's consumerism.	2003-01-26
1254976:US	52801489	R2PH08XSAFND12	0671679929	258411629	Moosewood Restaurant Cooks at Home: Fast and Easy Recipes for Any Day	Books	4	126	134	N	N	Good for those quick dinners	I own most of the Moosewood cookbooks, but I don't use this one nearly as often as I do the earlier books, mostly because the recipes in this one are more limited.  Still, there are some great quick vegetarian dishes here that could quickly become favorites.  Families especially will appreciate the quick pizza recipes that allow you to choose your &quot;crust&quot;: pre-baked shell, French bread, or pita.  The Herbed Chevre and Tomato Pizza and the Mushroom and Smoked-Cheese Pizza are both great, although you really don't need a recipe for either.  The same is true for the vegetarian antipasto salad - anyone can figure out how to make a salad out of olives, artichoke hearts, beans, roasted red peppers, and cheese.  However, sometimes when I want a quick dinner, I can't think on my own.  This is when this cookbook comes through.<br />Some of the more unusual recipes are Curried Fried Rice, Asian Cabbage Slaw, Pasta with Spicy Cauliflower, Sweet Potato Quesadillas, and Fragrant Rice Noodles with Vegetables.  Warning:  some of these recipes contain fish.  Since Moosewood has such an established reputation for vegetarian cuisine, I don't understand why something like Chesapeake Catfish had to be included. As with all of the Moosewood cookbooks, the desserts are competent but unexceptional.<br />In the back, the authors divide their recipes into lists:  non-dairy and vegan dishes; recipes that will allow you to spend more time with your guests; &quot;kid pleasers&quot;; dishes suitable for buffets; and 30 minute meals.  This is probably the most thoughtful aspect of the book, and I appreciate the effort.  You'll also find a fairly comprehensive &quot;Guide to Ingredients&quot; which not only describes some of the more unusual items but also where you are likely to find them.<br />For close to 400 pages of recipes, this cookbook does not seem to have a lot in it.  Still, it's worth getting for those recipes that ARE there. Don't make this your only Moosewood cookbook, but certainly include it as part of your collection.ut certainly include it as part of your collection.	2003-01-24
1255381:US	52801489	R2ZFPRAR9WRASA	0812065484	118984683	Madhur Jaffrey's Indian Cooking	Books	5	76	85	N	N	I love this cookbook!	For an introduction to Indian cuisine, Madhur Jaffrey's Indian Cooking can't be beat.  The recipes are all easy to follow and to prepare, with ingredients, in both American and metric measurement system, listed in a column next to the recipes. Jaffrey does not concentrate on Indian vegetarian dishes, although many of the recipes ARE vegetarian.  There are even a few beef recipes reflecting the non-Hindu population.  (The beef baked in yogurt and black pepper is delicious!)<br />Jaffrey includes a descriptive guide to Indian spices and ingredients as well as a chapter on cooking techniques.  The section on breads is fantastic.  I never thought I could make poori at home, and yet they turned out perfectly.  I make naan fairly frequently, using a breadmaker to knead the dough, because it's my family's favorite.  Other excellent dishes include Dry Potatoes with Ginger and Garlic, Gujerati-style Green Beans, and Spicy Baked Chicken.  (The recipes are titled in English, with the Indian names in parentheses underneath.)<br />Anyone with a basic know-how of cooking should be able to succeed with these recipes.	2003-01-23
1256265:US	52801489	RDCU2V6YJHHBN	0446674524	494596253	The Occasional Vegetarian	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Vegetarian with Asian and Mediterrean influences	Why the \\"Occasional\\" in the title?  The author herself is not vegetarian, but she appreciates meatless dinners for both health and flavor reasons.  She set about writing a cookbook that would introduce meat-eaters to more healthy alternatives and to provide satisfying recipes for vegetarians. This book is not meant to address the specific dietary needs of strict vegetarians, but then, most vegetarians already know how to eat healthfully. In any case, vegetarian and non-vegetarians alike will find much to satisfy their hunger within these pages.<br />Some of these recipes are exceedingly simple, while others require more preparation time. Very few recipes take up more than a page of fairly large-font text.  I love Fiery Black-Eyed Pea Salad, Pasta with Marsala and Wild Mushrooms, Curried Couscous with Vegetables and Chickpeas, and \\"Cream\\" of Carrot Soup, a dish with no dairy products but with a creamy texture.  You'll find recipes for bruschetta, stuffed cherry tomatoes, and baked acorn squash - the type of foods you find in many a cookbook but never really consider their vegetarian nature.  Some dishes I tried were too bland, but most turned out well.  Desserts, of course, are easily vegetarian - who would think of putting meat in trifle as seen in an episode of \\"Friends? - but Lee has selected most of her desserts for their lower fat counts. Of course, calories are calories.<br />Vegans will find several recipes that suit their needs, or which they can modify, but all in all might be disappointed with the limited number of recipes they can use. Other vegetarians and people who wish to limit their meat consumption should find this cookbook a real treat.	2003-01-23
1258231:US	52801489	R8TM92J88CS91	0877790426	615146603	Merriam-Webster's Encyclopedia of Literature	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A hefty overview	Merriam Webster's ENCYCLOPEDIA OF LITERATURE is a 1200 page overview of literature, with entries documenting important written materials from antiquity to contemporary times.  Arranged alphabetically, this volume is easy to use.  Readers can look up authors, individual works, literary devices and forms, and schools of thought - the important ones are all there.  Because so much is included, the entries themselves are short, usually one or two paragraphs. This volume is wonderful if you want to remind yourself of an author's major works or what the definition of a sonnet is.  You can use the thumbnail entries as starting points for additional research, or as a quick way to check dates and titles.<br />As an overview of literature throughout the ages, this encyclopedia is well worth owning.  If you want more in-depth analysis, I suggest looking for books particular to your topic of interest.	2003-01-21
1262663:US	52801489	R33JY1SDNRLNTS	0876055005	416752017	Budgie: An Owner's Guide to a Happy Healthy Pet	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The perfect budgie book for newbies	I can't think of a better, more accessible book for first time budgie (parakeet) owners.  In 123 pages, Rach, a former editor of BIRD TALK, covers a wide range of topics, from the history of the budgie as a pet to teaching it to talk.  She covers health problems and how to prevent them, proper nutrition, cage size, taming a new bird, and grooming.  The section on parakeet behavior was, for me, the most entertaining, as Rach describes the gestures and habits common to most budgies and what each means.  The color photographs scattered throughout are mostly unneccessary, but they break up the text.  (Most people aren't interested in seeing a person covering a cage.)  The pictures of budgies themselves are worth it, however, especially since most people reading the book will already be enamored of this acrobatic pet.<br />Well-seasoned budgie owners and breeders won't find much new here, but newcomers to bird ownership will be delighted.  Even if you are only thinking of purchasing a bird, read this book to understand what will be required of you to give a new parakeet a safe and healthy home.	2003-01-18
1263538:US	52801489	R3KSYTPXTKLTC7	1840006110	606212660	Hugh Johnson's Pocket Wine Book 2003	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Take it everywhere with you!	I have been a devotee of Hugh Johnson's Pocket Encyclopedias since the 1980's, when I was first introduced to the concept of fine wine.  This pocket guide, updated every year to include information on new vineyards and vintages, is a godsend.  With so many wines produced today, I need a method to distinguish among the offerings, and this is it. From the cheapest to the most expensive wine, Johnson includes a vast list in a slim, portable volume.<br />Without snobbery, Johnson discusses grape varieties, food pairings, and the individual character of different wine regions, from France to California to Australia - even to South Africa.  While the food recommendations are more guidance than rules, they still provide a solid base for the novice.  Connoisseurs will head straight to the easy to read wine listings to discover the best vintages and the characters of individual labels, as well as Johnson's overall starred ratings.<br />The book is small enough to fit inside a purse or jacket pocket, perfect for taking to a restaurant or wine store. If you are serious about wine, you really do need to buy an updated edition every year.  People who have only a casual interest might get away with one every other year.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone who appreciates fine wine or who wants to learn more about it.  You won't be disappointed.	2003-01-17
1264394:US	52801489	R3B2DGV11FE6J6	0394567889	590926970	The Fannie Farmer Cookbook, 13th Edition	Books	5	93	95	N	N	The BEST all-purpose cookbook	I refer to THE FANNIE FARMER COOKBOOK more than any other cookbook in my kitchen - and I own approximately seventy-five cookbooks. What's so special about FANNIE FARMER?  It is a wonderfully friendly book for the beginning cook that also supplies recipes for those who are more experienced.  Unlike THE JOY OF COOKING, another basic cookbook, this one has recipes that always succeed.<br />The sections on baking are the most successful.  You will cherish many of these recipes once you try them.  The cornbread is a snap - my family loves it - while the Cracked Wheat Bread, equally delicious, requires more skill, or at least the ability to scale the recipe to a breadmaker.  You'll find great recipes for crepes, old-fashioned gingerbread, and berry tarts. It includes five different recipes for chocolate frosting - and a penuche frosting that will send you into a delicious sugar swoon.  The selection of cookie recipes is rather ordinary, but hey, you need recipes for peanut butter cookies and sugar cookies.<br />Want to know how to select a good pineapple and then prepare it?  It's here.  Confused about the various stages of sugar syrup?  You'll find an easy to read table, from soft ball to hard crack.  Forget the temperature of a properly cooked turkey breast?  No problem.  You'll find descriptions of fish and shellfish, various cuts of meats, most fruit and vegetables, and instructional paragraphs about proper technique.  The inside cover contains liquid and dry measurement equivalents, a basic pastry recipe, and a scattering of tips about food preparation. Most of the recipes would not be considered gourmet - this is a basic cookbook, after all - but sometimes I am surprised by the inclusion of the out-of-the-ordinary.<br />This book can make a good cook out of anyone.	2003-01-16
1264629:US	52801489	R1Z8X95BA8PFBG	0151006903	99041831	Baudolino	Books	3	112	117	N	N	A Travelogue Through the Middle Ages	I adored Eco's THE NAME OF THE ROSE and FOUCAULT'S PENDULUM - and hated THE ISLAND OF THE DAY BEFORE.  Umberto Eco's newest novel, BAUDOLINO, lies somewhere in between.  In it, Eco returns to familiar territory:  the Middle Ages and the theological philosophies that shaped the times.  He begins his story during the Fourth Crusade when Constantinople is under attack.  A Greek priest Niketas is rescued by a mysterious man named Baudolino who amazingly knows the languages of both attackers and defenders.  While the two are in hiding, Baudolino tells Niketas his life story, from his peasant beginnings to his adoption by the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick to his quest to discover the kingdom of the legendary priest Prestor John.  Baudolino is a self-professed liar, so his story unfolds with the authority of his voice but also with underlying uncertainty.  Baudolino believes with passion many of his own lies, lending yet another layer to his tale.<br />Parts of this novel are brilliant, but Eco does not seem to know what he wants this novel to be.  For example, he spends a portion of the book documenting the rise of the Italian city-states, finally focusing on one city and its inhabitants with convincing detail and conflict, only to discard it - just when the situation gets interesting - in favor of a lackluster quest to return the Holy Grail to Prestor John's kingdom.  The books covers events that occurred throughout Europe, and somehow (is it his liar's tongue?) Baudolino is always there with his hand stirring up history.  Eco devotes huge sections to war, mythological beings, and long treatises on the theological questions of the times.  He seems to want to cram everything he knows about the Middle Ages into this novel: myths, misconceptions, historical figures, theological debates, politics.  Unfortunately, by not building his story around one or two of these elements, he has ended up with a scattered novel that can be compelling one minute and excruciatingly dull the next.  The motivations of the characters are often weak, although sometimes the characters spring up with unexpected vividness, only to fade away once again.  I wish Eco had spent more time with the human moments of the Middle Ages to give this era life.<br />Despite the unmoored aspect to BAUDOLINO, Eco is at his humorous best when inventing, with details that made me laugh, the origin of several Middle Ages \\"discoveries\\": the shroud of Turin, the widely circulated letters of Prestor John, the conflicting relics that appeared in various early churches, to name only a few.  Several real figures of the times - Zosimos the alchemist, the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick and his son, and Niketas himself - have human foibles that make them rise off the page.  Baudolino's relationship with both his real and his adoptive fathers are poignant in two separate scenes, and his love for his stepmother is convincingly told.<br />This is a sinuously told tale with no constant conflict or other driving force, but one which will please readers who love philosophy, intellectual history, and theological debates.  I recommend this for patient readers who have a bonafide interest in Eco's work as well as in medieval times.  You will be wholly dissatisfied if you are looking for the mystery or conspiracy of Eco's previously successful novels.ext.  The motivations of the characters are often weak, although sometimes the characters spring up with unexpected vividness, only to fade away once again.  I wish Eco had spent more time with the human moments of the Middle Ages to give this era life.<br />Despite the unmoored aspect to BAUDOLINO, Eco is at his humorous best when inventing, with details that made me laugh, the origin of several Middle Ages \\"discoveries\\": the shroud of Turin, the widely circulated letters of Prestor John, the conflicting relics that appeared in various early churches, to name only a few.  Several real figures of the times - Zosimos the alchemist, the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick and his son, and Niketas himself - have human foibles that make them rise off the page.  Baudolino's relationship with both his real and his adoptive fathers are poignant in two separate scenes, and his love for his stepmother is convincingly told.<br />This is a sinuously told tale with no constant conflict or other driving force, but one which will please readers who love philosophy, intellectual history, and theological debates.  I recommend this for patient readers who have a bonafide interest in Eco's work as well as in medieval times.  You will be wholly dissatisfied if you are looking for the mystery or conspiracy of Eco's previously successful novels.	2003-01-16
1264964:US	52801489	R3G84PO4BWUH8W	0140262156	185306815	Death in the Andes	Books	5	12	14	N	N	An unsettling and unforgettable novel	DEATH IN THE ANDES is a suspenseful and explosive story about the political and social landscape of Peru in the 1990's. Corporal Lituma and his deputy Tomas are assigned to a remote area of the Andes to oversee a road crew. When three men are reported missing, everyone becomes edgy. Lituma sets out to solve the mystery, but soon finds himself overrun with more questions than answers.<br />Told in a mosaic of voices, from Lituma to two hapless French tourists to the proprietor of the local cantina, the real mystery is the Peruvian people and their survival in the harsh terrain of the Andes amid guerrillas, poverty, political uncertainty, and superstition. Llosa delivers this story with an unflinching honesty that will keep you turning pages, horrified and yet unable to turn away.	2003-01-16
1277277:US	52801489	R3M353FRHZXCL9	0312069146	289272514	Bread Machine Magic: 139 Exciting New Recipes Created Especially for Use in All Types of Bread Machines	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The standard for bread machine recipes	When making bread, I rely heavily on this book.  The recipes here always work, regardless of type, and the authors have supplied enough recipes to keep an ambitious baker busy. Even better, this book won't overwhelm a novice. Many of the recipes are based on &quot;basic&quot; recipes (such as Basic White, Basic Whole Wheat,and Basic Sweet) and then varied, showing a newcomer the way to create her/his own recipes.<br />The models the authors cite may confuse those new to bread machines, even though this is probably the best book for them.  All you need to do is follow the ingredients list and hit start.  You don't need to worry about adding a tablespoon more water because you own X machine.  Flour storage techniques, room humidity, and measuring skills all affect the amount of needed liquid more than individual brands.  As long as you make sure your dough forms a smooth ball inside the pan, you'll be fine.<br />In addition to the basic breads, my favorite recipes are:  Anadama Bread, Buttermilk Bread, Black Forest Pumpernickel, and Cracked Wheat Bread.  I use the Basic Sweet Bread recipes for my cinnamon rolls,  You'll also find recipes for pita bread, soft pretzels, pizza dough, and Aunt Celia's Raspberry-Cream Coffee Cake with Almonds.  Hungry yet?<br />A bread machine is nothing without first-rate recipes.  This book is a great place to start.	2003-01-07
1277556:US	52801489	R26HIZSSODSIO4	0812024508	763472388	The Best of Gaston Lenotre's Desserts: Glorious Desserts of France's Finest Pastry Maker	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Track this book down if you love baking!	Gaston Lenotre has compiled a mouth-watering book of French pastries that an intermediate or ambitious beginning cook should have no trouble using. The color photographs are gorgeous, although dated in appearance, and the recipes are well-written and easy to follow.<br />The book is laid out as though assuming the reader has no knowledge of pastry baking. The book begins with a compilation of terms and techniques, and procedes to a section of \\"basic\\" recipes such as Chantilly Cream, Butter Cream, Dessert Syrup, and Almond Paste. And then the fun begins: brioche, croissants, and pithiviers, working up to Mirabelle Plum Tart, Chocolate-Vanilla Charlotte, soufflees, and Autumn Meringue Cake. The cool-down phase is candy: truffles, chocolate thistles, and carmelized hazelnuts. The Strawberry Cake, deceptively simple in name, is outstanding with its genoise base, buttercream and fresh berry filling, and marzipan top. The Upside Down Orange Cake and the chocolate mousse filled and pleated chocolate ribbon topped Autumn Meringue Cake are also show stoppers. For each recipe, Lenotre supplies preparation time (valid only if you are already familiar with the techniques), baking time, and cookware/utensil needs.<br />The biggest drawback to this cookbook is the constant referral to basic recipes, demanding frequent page flipping as you prepare a pastry. For example, the Strawberry Cake requires one recipe of buttercream filling, one recipe of dessert syrup, one recipe of genoise, one recipe of almond paste in addition to the more specific needs. Of course, the advantage of such shortened ingredient lists is the mistaken belief that the preparation might be simpler than it is.<br />For anyone interested in the art of pastry making, this is a wonderful book.	2003-01-07
1289668:US	52801489	R3H5798P7MZU5Q	0971991901	830969634	How to Succeed in Heaven Without Really Dying	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Humorous and irreverent	After a slow and not-so-engaging start, Adam McDaniel kicks it into high gear in his debut novel, HOW TO SUCCEED WITHOUT REALLY DYING.  By the halfway point, I couldn't put down this amusing and well told story about a man who argues with death's representative, meets a guardian angel dressed as a prostitute, and discovers the meaning of a good life.<br />Micah Cohen's parents died in a horrible accident that would have claimed Micah's young life as well if not for a child-angel who breathed life back into him.  Despite this second chance, Micah has grown into a miserable, self-pitying man with a dead-end job.  When he incompetently fails in a suicide attempt, he meets \\"Death's little helper\\" Coltan, a man with a day planner and an attitude who is furious that Micah didn't die on schedule.  When Coltan sets another appointment with death for later that day, Micah obliges.  But by the time the moment arrives, too much has changed inside Micah - and the story really begins.<br />Because his premise is somewhat trite, perhaps even sophomoric, McDaniels has his work cut out; however, he mostly rises to the challenge to deliver some genuinely human and amusing moments.  Unfortunately, when he goes too far (or not far enough), he ruins his own illusion.  One thing is certain:  McDaniel knows how to tell a story.  You won't be yawning during the climax of *this* novel.<br />Most of the characterization is so-so, but Coltan is an ingenious creation - he gets more laughs than any other character. Although the writing flows, never getting in the way of the plot, it seemed too pedestrian, too careless for a novel.  (McDaniel's bio says he works in film and stage, which may explain his inattention to the demands of narrative prose.)<br />A few things REALLY bothered me about the edition of the book I read, although I didn't deduct rating points for them:  the book was bound so close to the inner margins that it was often difficult to read the end/beginning of lines; \\"all right\\" was consistently misspelled as \\"alright\\"; and ellipses, which are frequent in this book, were incorrectly represented as three tight periods (...) instead of \\". . .\\", which any competent editor should catch.  I know these points seem niggling, but they did distract me.<br />All in all, though, McDaniels shows real storytelling talent and a penchant for irreverent humor. He has written a memorable book that deserves to be read. Although I couldn't give this book four stars, it really deserves more than three.  I give it three and a half stars.\\" was consistently misspelled as \\"alright\\"; and ellipses, which are frequent in this book, were incorrectly represented as three tight periods (...) instead of \\". . .\\", which any competent editor should catch.  I know these points seem niggling, but they did distract me.<br />All in all, though, McDaniels shows real storytelling talent and a penchant for irreverent humor. He has written a memorable book that deserves to be read. Although I couldn't give this book four stars, it really deserves more than three.  I give it three and a half stars.	2002-12-29
1291541:US	52801489	R2EU2XRMO8C8WF	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	4	5	N	N	One of Crichton's Best!	The best of Michael Crichton's sci-fi thrillers share a simple theme:  humankind cannot control its own creations.  PREY is no exception.  This riveting, hair-raising novel concerns the melding of nanotechnology (the creation of tiny machines on a molecular level) and genetic engineering to create Crichton's latest menace to the human species: a deadly cloud of millions of self-replicating machines.<br />The narrator Jack is a stay-at-home dad who cannot find work because he was unjustly blacklisted in the computer science community.  His past work on an algorithm based on predator/prey models has earned him some fame; however, that all seems past him now as he struggles to raise his three kids.  His wife Julia, an executive in a local start-up company, does not seem to have time for them.  Lately, she has been distant and moody, not really herself.  Jack suspects that she is having an affair.  When he is given the opportunity to consult for Julia's company because his work on the program PREDPREY was used to direct the company's nanotechnology, he accepts it.  In the back of his mind, he only wants to find out the truth about his wife; what he actually finds is much more disturbing and threatening.<br />Crichton does a wonderful job with Jack's character and narration up until his arrival at the Nevada lab; afterwards, Jack could be any Crichton hero.  The formula elements are there:  the cowardly but determined-to-save-the-company executive, the children in jeopardy, the marital discord, the easily identified expendables.  Of course, Jack and his small band are cut off from society's help - no outside communication, surrounded by nothing but desert.  Jack must be resourceful with the materials and knowledge at hand to defeat the enemy.  Despite these formulaic devices, Crichton manages to keep the reader in constant suspense, with each turn of the plot as surprising and as breathtaking as the last.  This time around, he doesn't overburden the plot with lengthy treatises on scientific subjects; he demonstrates some (but not entire) restraint, adding only what is necessary *when* it is necessary.  The story is grounded in realism, with brand names and everyday chores and realistic technology, so that by the time the story takes its leap into the unfathomable, the reader is completely willing to suspend disbelief.<br />The main flaw of this novel is the cardboard characters (except for Jack, and even he goes flat.) Yes, the science isn't perfect and some plot elements are ludicrous - for example, Jack is allowed into the highly classified building of a government contractor without a security clearance - but hey, it's a good read.  This kind of book is not meant to be contemplated too carefully after it's over.  PREY is pure entertainment, no more, no less.<br />PREY is a first-rate thriller, on a par with both JURASSIC PARK and THE ANDROMEDA STRAIN, both of which echo in parts of this book.  I highly recommend this book for readers of thrillers and science fiction.atises on scientific subjects; he demonstrates some (but not entire) restraint, adding only what is necessary *when* it is necessary.  The story is grounded in realism, with brand names and everyday chores and realistic technology, so that by the time the story takes its leap into the unfathomable, the reader is completely willing to suspend disbelief.<br />The main flaw of this novel is the cardboard characters (except for Jack, and even he goes flat.) Yes, the science isn't perfect and some plot elements are ludicrous - for example, Jack is allowed into the highly classified building of a government contractor without a security clearance - but hey, it's a good read.  This kind of book is not meant to be contemplated too carefully after it's over.  PREY is pure entertainment, no more, no less.<br />PREY is a first-rate thriller, on a par with both JURASSIC PARK and THE ANDROMEDA STRAIN, both of which echo in parts of this book.  I highly recommend this book for readers of thrillers and science fiction.	2002-12-27
1296556:US	52801489	R63IXW415TF9R	0312305060	785940945	The Hours	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Inspired by MRS. DALLOWAY - but all Cunningham	I can't believe I put off reading Michael Cunningham's THE HOURS for this long.  This spectacularly written novel resonates with emotion and insight as it follows the relatively ordinary details of the lives of three women separated by decades.  Each woman lives a single day here, each is haunted by the novel MRS. DALLOWAY.  Virginia Woolf is preparing to write the novel in the midst of unsettling thoughts and surroundings.  50's housewife Laura Brown finds refuge in the book as she prepares for her husband's birthday and finds herself tempted by thoughts of death.  Clarissa Vaughan has been nicknamed Mrs. Dalloway by her closest friend, the dying poet Richard, for whom she is about to throw a party. The three stories converge thematically; two are brought together by a shared character.<br />You don't need to read Woolf's MRS. DALLOWAY to appreciate this book because Cunningham has constructed a moving tale that stands on its own.  Although a knowledge of Woolf's novel reveals the layers the author has carefully constructed, there is much here to enjoy without that frame of reference.  The language is stunning, and the sentiments even more so.  Surprisingly, Virginia Woolf is the strongest character despite her iconic place in literature, with Clarissa almost as well drawn.  Laura is less memorable. Some of the minor characters appear with clarity while others seem tacked on, there only to support the ties to Woolf's novel. The homosexual characters (most notably Clarissa and Richard, with fleeting impulses from Laura and Virginia) are treated with affection and respect.<br />THE HOURS is a short, easily readable book, although you shouldn't - and most won't want to - breeze through it.  I recommend this book for a general readership.	2002-12-22
1307637:US	52801489	R3D23XIOYU6O9T	0877017883	129179199	Griffin & Sabine:  An Extraordinary Correspondence	Books	4	14	15	N	N	For nosy romantics . . .	GRIFFIN &amp; SABINE is the ultimate gift for the naturally curious. This peek into the correspondence between two people - with letters to open, postcards to read, handwriting to decipher - gives the reader the sensation of having stumbled upon a romantic mystery to which only the individual reader is privvy.  The story is nothing much, but the discovery of it is exquisite.  The art used to development the concept is engaging and not at all cutesy.  Because of its interactive nature, this book feels intimately known, privately owned, a secret kept closed between the covers.<br />This is a great gift book. If you are looking for substantial reading, skip this, but if you want a diversion, something to explore and take in visually, this book is for you.	2002-12-12
1313547:US	52801489	R3S79BXCUDVA3I	1585731501	850386550	Insight Guide Pacific Northwest (Insight Guides)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	An overview of the region	Each travel series (Insight, Frommer, Lonely Planet, etc.) has its own emphasis and style.  The strength of the Insight guides is its overview of a particular region, in this case the Pacific Northwest area of the United States.  You won't find extensive lists of hotels and restaurants in this book; instead, you'll be given a written and photographic tour through Washington and Oregon, from Seattle to Portland, from Mount St. Helens to Mount Hood, along the coast, into the mountains, and across the Columbia Basin.  The guide supplies a short history of the area (short, but more comprehensive than most guides) as well as the &quot;personalities&quot; of contemporary cities.  You'll find a section on the wine-making regions and one on the John Day Fossil Beds.  National and state parks are covered as well.  The color photographs, included on almost every page, shows the varied landscapes in with a true eye for aesthetics. An extremely small section at the back addresses much of what the bulk of the guide lacks:  festivals, hotels and restaurants (no descriptions, just addresses and phone numbers),how to get there, major attractions, and other brief travel tips.<br />I recommend this book for travelers as a preparation for a trip to the Pacific Northwest or for those who have not yet decided if this region is for them.  You'll need a more nuts-and-bolts guidebook to accompany it for more practical considerations such as detailed entries about lodging, maps, places to shop, and restaurants.	2002-12-07
1316178:US	52801489	R38C8IFGZKPJVF	0156001314	444581246	The Name of the Rose: including the Author's Postscript	Books	5	48	53	N	N	A masterpiece - one of my all-time favorite novels!	Forget the movie version of THE NAME OF THE ROSE.  This brilliant book by Umberto Eco is meant to be read, absorbed, considered, held close to your chest before you reluctantly put it down. Filled with complexities - philosophy, historical details, superb characterizations - it does not make for easy reading.  I'm a seasoned reader of classics and literary fiction, and yet I struggled through the first pages.  What a mistake it would have been to give up!  Once I reached page 50 or so, I couldn't put it down.<br />By now, the plot is well known:  a monk and his young assistant (the narrator) arrive at a monastery to investigate heresy at the height of the Inquisition.  No sooner do they arrive when their focus is shifted to a series of mysterious murders.  Who is behind the atrocious acts, and why?  Is there greater meaning to the deaths than first appears?<br />While the suspenseful plot keeps the story moving forward at surprising speed (surprising, given the language and wealth of historical details), the philosophy of the era is the soul of the novel, lending credulity to the characters and their situations as well as having implications for those living in the 21st century.  Issues of censorship, free thought, the power of the written word, and the need for rational thought in chaotic times all come into play.<br />THE NAME OF THE ROSE is a magnificent example of fiction destined to last.  I highly recommend it for serious readers of all tastes.	2002-12-05
1316631:US	52801489	R2F4S7DC1K7344	014029628X	180693945	Girl in Hyacinth Blue	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The &quot;provenance&quot; of a great painting	Susan Vreeland's novel begins on a simple note:  an art teacher is invited into the home of a colleague, and is shown a breathtaking painting of a young girl staring out a window, her sewing forever arrested in oil on her lap.  The colleague claims the painting is an original Vermeer.  The art teacher cannot quite accept this as truth, despite the erudite proof of the colleague, because the painting has no provenance, or line of succession, to prove its origins.  Its existence is undocumented and therefore suspect.  Thus the novel is launched.  Vreeland takes her readers back in time to each of the painting's owners and their heartbreaking stories that lead to their surrendering it. The line leads back to Vermeer himself, with the girl who posed for the painting having the final word.<br />I read this brief novel in one sitting and yet felt completely satisfied upon its finish.  The comparison to Tracey Chevalier's GIRL WITH A PEARL EARRING is inevitable given the subject matter, though in my opinion, Vreeland's book has greater depth and is told more skillfully.  Because she weaves a history of the Netherlands into her tale, one gets the feeling of the sweeping changes that accompanied the eternally wistful expression of the young girl with &quot;an eye like a blue pearl.&quot;<br />I highly recommend this book for general readers, particular those interested in fine writing, art, and historical fiction.	2002-12-05
1329633:US	52801489	R1M62RX5JCBKCM	1900131811	713836524	The Maya :Life, Myth and Art	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A beautiful pictorial overview of the Mayan culture	Through gorgeous photographs of ruins, murals, figurines, pottery, and other artifacts, Laughton guides the reader through an introduction to the complexities of Mayan society. He touches upon topics as varied as sacrifice, glyphs, sports, and the significance of the jaguar. But this book's strength is not the concise text. THE MAYA is primarily a visual look at the Mayan culture - and here it excels.<br />At 135 pages, this is not an exhaustive book but rather a brief overview.  Readers wanting an in-depth exploration of the culture should look elsewhere.  Those who simply have a curiosity about the Mayas, or who love the visual impact of antiquities, will enjoy this book immensely.	2002-11-23
1334662:US	52801489	R20V4W7D7MFZDF	1582971471	503329052	2003 Novel & Short Story Writer's Market	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Yes, you need a new edition every year!	NOVEL AND SHORT STORY WRITER'S MARKET is the book that almost every aspiring writer buys - and for good reason.  With listings for book publishers, commercial magazines, literary journals, agents, contests, conferences, and now e-publishers, this market guide provides a fairly comprehensive look at the possibilities.  Writers new to the business will appreciate the submission guidelines and the insider look into publishing.  Established writers will go straight to the listings which provide not only contact information but also editorial needs, writers published, length requirements, and payment specifics.  I find the small boxes of interviews scattered throughout a fun and occasionally instructive diversion.<br />Yes, even if you bought the 2002 edition, you need to buy this.  The 2003 edition lists changes in editorial staff, new markets, changed addresses, and shifting requirements.  If you want to become a professional, you need to have the most current information available.  This book, while not perfect and certainly not comprehensive, comes the closest to gathering all the pertinent information in one place.<br />As a published author, I can honestly recommend this book as a solid resource for getting your work in print.	2002-11-19
1335468:US	52801489	R5BW0TDEZDIIX	0375421270	513080584	In the River Sweet: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A moving novel about love and change	First with HUMMINGBIRD HOUSE and now with IN THE RIVER SWEET, Patricia Henley has established herself as a novelist of social and political wars.  Her characters are rarely in the center of violent war but instead occupy the fringes, the gray areas people don't often consider.  IN THE RIVER SWEET centers around Ruth Anne, a woman who traveled to Vietnam during the war to be closer to her drafted fiance Johnny and who spent her time there binding books at a convent.  When the books opens, Ruth Anne has been married to Johnny for over twenty years.  Their daughter Laurel has just announced that she is in love with a woman, a fact that Ruth Anne can accept intellectually but not personally. To complicate her already turbulent emotions, Ruth Anne is contacted via email by the secret son she left behind in Vietnam. Everything she had counted on shifts dangerously underneath her.<br />Henley touches upon - but does not fully develop - the effects of the Vietnam War, the clandestine operations in Laos, and gay rights.  Each member of Ruth Anne's family bears scars from at least one of these conflicts.  They all seek a salve to alleviate their pain and confusion.  While Henley roots her people in war (and gay-bashing falls into that category), she cares less about the particulars of the general issues and more about the private lives affected by them. Ultimately, this is a novel about love and family.<br />I recommend this novel for readers of literary fiction and of socially engaged work.  The interior nature (no quotation marks, detailed exploration of thoughts and emotions) demands greater concentration than does a commercial novel. Because Henley's last work was a finalist for the National Book Award, expect to see this novel garner widespread attention.	2002-11-18
1339741:US	52801489	R1KYCTF0MCCEHX	0321026896	527180874	Writing Fiction: A Guide to Narrative Craft (5th Edition)	Books	5	16	21	N	N	Worth every penny!!!!	If you buy only one writing book in your life, make it Janet Burroway's book.  She offers the most sensible and insightful look into creating believable fiction that I've ever come across.  I credit her with teaching me the extras that took me from unpublished writer to published author.<br />I can't even begin to discuss all the issues that this book covers.  Burroway's chapters on characterization, metaphors and similes, plot development, and point-of-view are standouts.  The writing exercises are for the most part instructive (especially if this book is used as a textbook), and are great for overcoming writer's block.<br />Burroway's emphasis is unequivocally on literary fiction, but her lessons can be applied to all genres.  I highly recommend this book to anyone who is serious about writing fiction.  For the hobbyist, you might want to find a how-to book that is not quite as comprehensive and thus less demanding.	2002-11-15
1339775:US	52801489	R8TUYUL8FVU6Q	1582971463	800298466	2003 Guide to Literary Agents: 600+ Agents Who Sell What You Write (Agents Directory)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	For writers who have finished a book manuscript	Writer's Digest puts out a number of books, including this one, designed to guide the beginning writer through the labyrinth of publishing.  While by no means comprehensive (many agents don't want to be listed because they prefer to acquire clients by referrals only), this book includes an impressive list of agents.  Writers should heed the advice of the individual listings.  Some agents demand to be contacted first by a query letter while others prefer the initial package to contain the first few chapters.  Also pay attention to the individual specialties - you don't want to spend the time and money sending your romance novel to an agent who handles only literary fiction.<br />Beginning writers will appreciate the guidance about how to select and submit to an agent as well as insider views of the publishing industry. More established writers will want to get to the meat: the listings themselves.  Probably the least helpful section is the list of publicists - unless you already have a contract in hand and have the money to hire one.<br />I highly recommend this book for writers who do not yet have an agent and who have finished a book length manuscript.	2002-11-15
1342035:US	52801489	R3NRTD8RWG8V1W	0674356616	255936413	Good Natured: The Origins of Right and Wrong in Humans and Other Animals	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Compelling, thought-provoking study of primate behavior	Frans de Waal is one of the best known primatologists in the United States, and GOOD NATURED shows why.  This careful study of primate behavior, both non-human and human, explores the issue of morality and the complex emotions that give rise to it. De Waal's topics range from empathy to social rules to diplomacy as he describes specific examples across primate species.<br />The black and white pictures illustrate his points, but they are by no means the highlight of this book.  De Waal's insights, which never read too much into specific behaviors, walk the fine line between objective scientific reporting and an acknowledgment of the kinship between all primates. Seeing primates through his expert eyes is an enlightening experience.<br />This is truly an extraordinary book.  I recommend it to readers who have a keen interest in primatology, sociology, and/or the kinship between humans and other species.	2002-11-13
1348944:US	52801489	RCO09Z3Z615L8	0226103897	818541757	The Chicago Manual of Style: The Essential Guide for Writers, Editors, and Publishers (14th Edition)	Books	5	62	64	N	N	The must-have book for professionals and college students	THE CHICAGO MANUAL OF STYLE is one of those books that no professional - writer, publisher, scientist, lawyer, teacher - should be without.  At nearly 900 pages, it covers almost any writing issue you can imagine, from the huge range of different requirements for citations to pluralizing foreign words to dealing with mathematics in type.  Of course, the more common problems of spelling, grammar, and punctuation are discussed exhaustively as well.  Divided into three parts (Bookmaking, Style, and Production and Printing), the target readership is without doubt those in the book trade; however, the style section is by far the largest and most useful for the average person.<br />My only problem with this volume is accessibility.  It's not always easy to find the section dealing with a particular problem.  For example, you may have to wade through several pages before you can determine which version of a citation is correct for your situation.  Despite this difficulty, I cannot deduct a star from my rating since no other book compares in scope and accuracy when it comes to the mechanics of writing.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone who writes articles, technical papers, or books as part of his or her profession.  College students should consider buying it as a reference tool that will never steer them wrong.	2002-11-07
1350534:US	52801489	R16VO8NZGHBQRA	0877797099	649336797	Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary	Books	5	34	34	N	N	The best general purpose dictionary on the market	When I recently discovered that the dictionary I owned was out of date (it didn't even have the word &quot;internet&quot; in it!), I set out to find a new one.  Because I'm a professional writer, I can't afford to have a substandard or incomplete volume; yet, I didn't want one that was so bulky that I couldn't easily slip it from the bookcase and balance it on my lap.  After going to bookstores and browsing through those in stock, I finally settled on the Merriam-Webster's Collegiate. The text is printed on paper thick enough to block out the print on the reverse side, but thin enough to take up minimal room on the shelf. When opened, the pages lie flat without assistance. The comprehensive listings are easy to read and understand for most people over the age of 14. In addition to the usual guide to pronunciation, you'll find sections in the back on biographical and geographical names, abbreviations, foreign words and phrases, signs and symbols, and a &quot;handbook of style.&quot; Although much has been made about the added line drawings to supplement the definitions, I find them sparse and only mildly interesting.<br />I recommend this for high school and college students as well as anyone who owns an older, pre-high tech version.  If you are searching for a mid-size, comprehensive dictionary, you've found your book.	2002-11-05
1351834:US	52801489	RPAK73WY794E2	0374281602	721325086	Reversible Errors: A Novel	Books	5	25	30	N	N	Exactly what a legal thriller should be!	In the first chapter of Scott Turow's REVERSIBLE ERRORS, the reader meets Arthur Raven, a typically (for the genre) jaded lawyer assigned to a pro bono capital case.  The reader knows at once that Raven will find the spark in this case that forces him to look differently not only at the legal system but at life in general.  That's the genre, and that's where Turow leaves predictability behind.  Told in vivid scenes from both the past during the original investigation of the brutal triple murder and from the present when the man convicted of committing the crime makes his final legal appeal with the assistance of Raven and his young assistant, Turow takes the reader on an extraordinary and breathtaking ride.  The characters and the issues they face are deftly drawn, with  ethical and personal ambiguities intact.  Well-written and expertly told, this novel shows Turow at his absolute best.<br />This was a novel I couldn't put down and yet didn't want to finish.  I adored the storytelling method of leaping back and forth through time and from character to character.  The technique gives REVERSIBLE ERRORS a richness rarely encountered in legal thrillers.<br />Read this book.  You won't regret it. REVERSIBLE ERRORS satisfies from start to finish.	2002-11-04
1352332:US	52801489	R3DIS3IKNV061G	0525946616	444441892	The Octopus and the Orangutan: More True Tales of Animal Intrigue, Intelligence, and Ingenuity	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A follow-up to The Parrot's Lament	With the publication of THE OCTOPUS AND THE ORANGUTAN, Eugene Linden has firmly established himself as a fine documenter of engaging animal behavior. In this, following the publication of his popular The Parrot's Lament, Linden explores more instances of possible signs of higher level thinking in animals.  He tells of - and refers to often - the remarkable ability to escape and overcome obstacles by the smartest invertebrate, the octopus, perhaps the most surprising instance of adaptability.  But he doesn't rely on stories involving the octopus and the orangutan, the two creatures in the title; he supplies examples of the intelligence of elephants, chimpanzees, dolphins, and squirrels, to name the most prevalent in these pages. Linden is always cautious not to attribute too much intelligence to possibly hard-wired behavior.  His attitude seems to be, &quot;Here's the evidence - this is what it might be, this is what it might not be.&quot;<br />Because Linden describes, albeit briefly, some of the examples described in his earlier book, I felt this one to be a little thinner in terms of content.  Yes, he elaborates and supplies new details, but still, I felt somewhat cheated at times. Some paragraphs feel like filler as he states, and re-states, the obvious.<br />Despite the above flaws, this is a worthwhile read for animal lovers and those interested in popular science.  The writing is simple and straightforward, an easy read all in all.  It makes a good companion book to Linden's previous work on animal intelligence.	2002-11-04
1358886:US	52801489	RI4MHANMTWUTD	0151001723	308171389	The Gypsy Man	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another triumph for Bausch	Kudos to Robert Bausch for another fine novel following his strong selling A HOLE IN THE EARTH.  THE GYPSY MAN is astoundingly different: a literary thriller set in the 1950's.  Told from multiple - one might even say numerous - points-of-view, the novel constructs life in the Virginia mountains in a small mill town called Crawford.  Legend has it that the woods around Crawford are frequented by a disfigured man nicknamed the Gypsy Man who steals small children and sets fires. The last time he struck, a black boy named Terry Landon disappeared; six years later the town is still grieving.  When old Morgan Tiller finds signs that the Gypsy Man has returned, the person who worries most is Penny Bone, a woman with a six year old daughter and a husband in prison.  Her Aunt Clare is missing, and she is convinced that this is the work of the Gypsy Man. From this auspicious start, the tension only increases as the reader begins the see the impending danger to all.<br />The plot is complicated, and giving away anymore of it might spoil the enjoyment of a riveting read. Bausch's use of many voices - from John Bone in prison for manslaughter, to Gault the town's teacher and lawyer, to Aunt Clare, to the volatile escaped convict Peach, to name only a small fraction - reveals the truth in pieces, even if the characters themselves cannot see it.  Penny is the spiritual center of the novel since she has both the most to lose and the most to gain, but even she cannot rightfully be called the protagonist.  THE GYPSY MAN is a mosaic that can only be seen clearly at a distance and with all the pieces in place.<br />THE GYPSY MAN is not a flawless book.  Some of the exchanges go on for too long, with little or no information conveyed.  Bausch's insistence on using first person narration for all  sections often leads to confusion, especially after a lengthy passage when the reader has had a chance to identify the &quot;I&quot; with a particular character. Despite these lapses, you won't want to miss the thrill of reading this novel.  The storytelling is superb, the characterizations wonderful, and the prose well-written. What more could you want?<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone who reads fiction. Bausch fans will want to snap this up right away, to be among the first to read it.  Newcomers won't regret their introduction to this gifted novelist.want to miss the thrill of reading this novel.  The storytelling is superb, the characterizations wonderful, and the prose well-written. What more could you want?<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone who reads fiction. Bausch fans will want to snap this up right away, to be among the first to read it.  Newcomers won't regret their introduction to this gifted novelist.	2002-10-29
1366116:US	52801489	R1CZMJPMPRZ3OU	4766111745	333468336	How to Draw Anime & Game Characters, Vol. 2: Expressing Emotions	Books	4	46	47	N	Y	Great for a budding anime artist	I bought this book for my teenage daughter, who has become obsessed with drawing manga.  It was worth every penny!  By demonstrating the particular stylistic quirks of Japanese animation (anime) and graphic novels (manga), it has helped her drawings gain the expressiveness she desires.  After just one week of studying the examples, she improved dramatically.<br />This book does not have extensive text and thus is perfect for middle school children and older to learn by copying the examples.  Unlike some of the volumes in this series, the pictures are not risque.<br />I recommend this book for anyone who has mastered the basics of anime style and is looking for ways to improve facial expressions.	2002-10-23
1371409:US	52801489	R19NF9CELYDGDM	0533139759	323838051	Dawn of the Transcendence	Books	3	16	20	N	N	Well-written but heavy-handed	DAWN OF THE TRANSCENDENCE starts promisingly.  With expert prose and careful characterization, the author introduces the Youth, an unnamed young man who lacks self-esteem, is sexually frustrated, and has lost his belief in God.  If Mickels had continued in this same vein, with the same tone and relatively subtle unfolding, this could have been a moving book.  Instead, in an abrupt change, the Youth is brought aboard a spacecraft and undergoes a moral tutelage that hits the reader over the head, again and again, with the author's beliefs.  The conflict - the Youth's lack of confidence in a bold world - takes second seat to moral proclamations and apocalyptic lessons and plot turns. When the conflict is finally resolved, it seems like an afterthought.<br />When Mikels learns that he can develop the lives of his characters without \\"divine\\" intervention to promote his views, then he will succeed as a novelist.  However, right now his skill with words exceeds his storytelling ability. The insistence on calling the main character the Youth while naming all the other characters seems pointless and contrived, even annoying at times.  Perhaps if the main character had been given a name, it would have personalized the middle part of this story, making it more relevant and less dogmatic.<br />Of novella length (138 pages of fairly large type), this book can be read in a single sitting. I recommend this book for those who like morality stories and who aren't bothered by heavy-handed storytelling. I give it four stars for the writing, two for the story.	2002-10-19
1372954:US	52801489	RMAX5IU90B1TW	0618131736	383055969	The Best American Short Stories 2002 (The Best American Series)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The best story series, year after year	The Best American Short Stories series, edited in recent years by Katrina Kenison, remains the best source of diverse contemporary short fiction.  Traditionally, the series editor selects 120 pieces from a wide range of commercial and literary publications, then passes them on to the guest editor, always a well-known writer. The guest editor - in this case Sue Miller - then selects what she believes are the best twenty. Although the guest editor is free to select stories he/she has discovered over the year and which aren't part of the package, few do. This year, the winners were filtered first through the subjective lens of Katrina Kenison, and then through that of Sue Miller. Readers should be aware that these aren't truly the &quot;best&quot; stories of the year, but only those judged so by two people.  If you are like me, you WILL come across one or two of these stories that seem unworthy of inclusion; however, the rest will delight you.<br />Sue Miller wonders in her introduction if her personal imprint will be evident in her selections.  She thinks not.  However, there are several stories about animals, particularly cows and puppies, and about women unhappy or unsure in their new marriages. Most stories are traditionally told, rich in detail, with straightforward language.  Stories from The New Yorker are well represented (eight out of the twenty), but Melissa Hardy's &quot;The Heifer&quot;, originally published in Descant, is as engaging as those eight. Famous writers - Edwidge Danticat, Alice Munro, E. L. Doctorow - mingle with the lesser known talents of Mary Yukari Waters, Meg Mullins, and Karl Iagnemma.  This is part of what makes this series so enjoyable, that new voices can stand proudly next to the masters'.<br />Especially when paired with the more experimental Pushcart Prize anthology, this book gives a good report on the trends of contemporary fiction. Look for forthcoming novels from some of the younger writers, as this series often brings them to the attention of book editors and agents.<br />I highly recommend The Best American Short Stories 2002 for anyone who enjoys reading short fiction. From Michael Chabon's &quot;Along Frontage Road&quot; to Richard Ford's &quot;Puppy&quot; to Mary Yukari Waters's &quot;Aftermath&quot;, this book delivers, if not the promise of the title, then its spirit.he attention of book editors and agents.<br />I highly recommend The Best American Short Stories 2002 for anyone who enjoys reading short fiction. From Michael Chabon's &quot;Along Frontage Road&quot; to Richard Ford's &quot;Puppy&quot; to Mary Yukari Waters's &quot;Aftermath&quot;, this book delivers, if not the promise of the title, then its spirit.	2002-10-17
1392364:US	52801489	R3K6SPKZOJBNGN	0374246645	710965458	The Ghost with Trembling Wings: Science, Wishful Thinking and the Search for Lost Species	Books	5	22	23	N	N	An engrossing, addictive book about species survival	Scott Weidensaul has written a fascinating, page-turning exploration of the complexities of species survival and extinction.  From the first chapter, a narrative account of his personal search for the probably extinct Semper's Warbler on St. Lucia, to the last chapter where he may, or may not, have found the never before seen female cone-billed tanager, this book never let go of my imagination.  Most of the sought-after species in this book are never found, but a few, such as the coelacanth and the almost-aurochs, are. The author looks for big cats rumored to be living in the English countryside, and tells of the accidental rediscovery of the Australian night parrot.  He provides one of the few intelligent treatises on the Loch Ness Monster and other cryptobiological \\"species.\\"  Even though most possibly extinct animals are never found, it's the hunt for them that excites both the author and the reader.  The often suspenseful narrative is peppered with history and sharp observations as well as varied opinions.  The language is rich with visual and engaging details, the kind that makes you feel as though you've entered into the \\"land of the lost.\\" Trust me, you won't fall asleep reading this book.  This is lay science as it should be, full of mysteries and questions, both accessible and intelligent. The author's good humor and pithy insights lend a friendly tone to his science.  For example, when he is fighting insects - in his ears, eyes, and under his watch band - during a frantic search for a specific flock of birds, he writes, \\"There is a reason lost species are lost in the first place.  Sometimes the reasons are weighty and formidable, like civil unrest, impenetrable mountains, or bandit warlords who use visitors for target practice.  Sometimes they are more prosaic, like bad roads and worse information.  And sometimes the reason is sweat bees - too many sweat bees.\\"  This witty, conversational tone makes The Ghost With Trembling Wings as fun to read as it is instructional.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone with even the slightest interest in conservation, evolution, field biology, and environmentalism; however, you don't need to know a thing about the preceding fields to enjoy The Ghost With Trembling Wings.  All you need is a healthy curiosity and the time to indulge it.structional.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone with even the slightest interest in conservation, evolution, field biology, and environmentalism; however, you don't need to know a thing about the preceding fields to enjoy The Ghost With Trembling Wings.  All you need is a healthy curiosity and the time to indulge it.	2002-09-30
1393184:US	52801489	R3TX6YVB9PSSD6	0316780812	279731145	Sea Glass: A Novel	Books	4	28	29	N	Y	Ambitious and well developed	At first, Anita Shreve's latest novel had me shaking my head in frustration.  I couldn't discern among the many short chapters and their main characters, all seemingly unrelated. I found myself flipping back and forth between chapters to remind myself of who was who.  And then something miraculous began to happen:  the characters began to cross paths, one by one, and their wildly different lives started to converge.  The plot unexpectedly had structure and direction.  By the time I reached the end, I was amazed by Shreve's fictive abilities to take a quiet group of character studies to such an explosive conclusion.<br />Set in a New Hampshire mill town and the nearby coast just before and during the Great Depression, the novel follows several principals affected by the greed of the mill owners. This is typical Shreve territory described in her characteristic starkly beautiful prose. Impatient readers might give up on Shreve's painstaking preparation for the final half of the novel, but the rewards are worth the slow start.<br />Men might find this title more hospitable than other Shreve titles; her male characters here are strongly drawn and interesting.  Although the women tend to be the unbreakable sea glass, the men drive the plot.<br />I recommend this book for readers of literary fiction and reading groups, the last because Shreve offers history, metaphor, and multidimensional issues - much to talk about. Pass on this if you are in the mood for a page-turner.	2002-09-30
1407208:US	52801489	R174LBJSHXHR3E	0802116388	101982806	Goodbye Tsugumi	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A delicate character study	Yoshimoto's novels have often been called &quot;charming,&quot; and GOODBYE TSUGUMI is no different. Maria, the illegitimate daughter of a Tokyo businessman, grew up in a Japanese seaside resort alongside her two cousins, Yoko and Tsugumi.  While Yoko is sensitive and gentle, Tsugumi is everthing but.  Frail of health, delicate in beauty, Tsugumi is an abrasive, selfish girl whom, oddly, Maria understands. Most of the novel takes place during a particular summer, when the girls have become young women and their lives have begun to take different directions.<br />This slim novel is mainly a character study, but I found the scenes within quietly engaging.  I never once considered putting this book aside to start another.  Although you won't find much plot here, the often uneasy relationship between Maria and Tsugumi holds the story together.  The only false note Yoshimoto hits comes in the closing pages. This novel may not be the author's best, but its delicacy and skill must still be admired.<br />I recommend this novel for those who enjoy contemporary Asian literature - particularly Yoshimoto's earlier works - as well as for readers of character driven fiction. Because of its brevity and ease of reading, it makes a good rainy afternoon or commuter book. You won't find the complexity of Murakami or the stark emotion of Oe. Instead, Yoshimoto's strength lies in the exploration of the often quiet connections between people.	2002-09-16
1425873:US	52801489	RDSZOIQYU3FB3	0618045996	111902659	Riding the Bus with My Sister: A True Life Journey	Books	5	31	36	N	N	An unforgettable journey	Rachel Simon has written a clear-eyed and inspirational memoir about life with her sister, a stubborn and resourceful woman who has mental retardation.  Beth lives by herself in an unnamed Pennsylvania city where she fills her days with riding bus route after bus route, chatting with the drivers and a few of the passengers.  When Beth challenges Simon, a professor and writer, to ride the buses with her for a year, Simon accepts.<br />Of course, Simon has a job and a life in another city, so her visits to Beth are necessarily brief and divided by days, maybe weeks.  Simon isn't sure what to expect of this new time spent with her sister except for early rising (Beth rushes out of the house every morning at 5:30 am, rain or shine) and frantic sprints to public restrooms. On a superficial level, Simon understands what her sister does all day.  What Simon doesn't expect is to find a richness in Beth's life that she herself lacks. This insight, gained not only through living with her sister but also through conversations with the bus drivers who have befriended Beth, leads Simon to re-evaluate her own priorities and choices.<br />This book is a journey of two sisters, who cover distances both geographical and emotional. Simon writes with heartfelt, no-nonsense prose that carries this story with remarkable aplomb.  Her portraits of the individual drivers are filled with detail and sharp-eyed perception. Her honesty about her own misgivings and failings is refreshing, and the lack of sentimentality is a relief.  What most distinguishes this book, however, is Simon's palpable affection for her sister. Both Beth and Simon are remarkable women, and I heartily thank Simon for allowing me a glimpse into their lives.	2002-08-29
1433863:US	52801489	RQDKVNQOTNWA2	0811834611	654455768	Ernie's Ark : stories	Books	5	27	27	N	Y	Wow!	ERNIE'S ARK is an astounding book.  This collection, like the ark of the title story, is built one piece at a time, one story on top of the last, until the reader is left with a magnificent monument to its characters.  Set in the town of Abbott Falls, Maine, during a lengthy labor strike, the stories focus on those struggling to make connections with their loved ones during difficult times.  In the title story, Ernie, a striking pipefitter who was days from  retirement when the strike began, tends to his dying wife, Marie.  In an uncharacteristic moment of artistic vision, he begins to build what he calls an \\"installment\\", a large ark in his backyard that gives him hope during a time when he should have none. In my personal favorite, \\"That One Autumn.\\" Marie, on her deathbed, reflects on a frightening incident that solidified her marriage and which now allows her to leave it, loved. \\"The Temperature of Desire\\" explores the grief of the union man Danny when his beloved younger brother crosses the picket line.  \\"Solidarity Is Not a Floor\\" follows Francine, the eighth grade daughter of an errant father and professor, who loses her right to an honor because hers is not a union family.  When events take an unexpected turn, Francine is given a glimpse into the adult world, thus giving her the strength to confront her father.<br />Wood explores lives that touch each other, sometimes briefly, introducing the main character of each story as a cameo role in a preceding one. These stories are about making human connections, about love and confusion, about betrayal and faith.  Taken separately, the stories would be admirable, but together they acquire an ever increasing power that resonates long after the reading.<br />I can't recommend this collection highly enough.  I became a fan of Monica Wood's work when I read MY ONLY STORY, but this collection of stories, both heartbreaking and triumphant, shows the maturing talents of a writer just now hitting her stride.	2002-08-21
1436634:US	52801489	R2AQPXEUDUG00M	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	42	45	N	N	Reminiscent of Henry James, but with a touch of metafiction	Ian McEwan's Atonement has the feel of classical literature:  an elegant and slightly formal style, generous details, and a straightforward plot.  Briony Tallis, a spoiled British 13 year old, spies her older sister Cecilia and the caretaker's son Robbie as they wrestle with an antique vase next to a fountain. Although Briony imagines herself as mature, she does not yet have an adult understanding of the world.  When the events that follow do not fit her scope of comprehension, she forces them into place with a lie that forever changes the people she involves. The novel follows the principals through the war and ends as Briony faces her own mortality in 1999.<br />Especially during the first part (there are four) which takes place just before World War II, I could not help thinking of Henry James and his intricate exploration of character and relationships.  I had to keep reminding myself that I was reading a contemporary novel. The only aspect that jarred me into the 21st century was McEwan's use of metafiction (fiction about writing fiction.)  Briony is an aspiring writer when the story begins, but we are told almost from the start that she will become an accomplished novelist. Throughout, Briony is keenly aware of the demands of her craft and how they distort the truth.  As the novel progresses, the reader is made more and more aware of this self-conscious side until the end, when the final section deals with this issue alone.<br />Personally, I'm tired of metafiction and find it contrived; however, McEwan's polished writing atones for this literary sin.  The details of life both before and during the war are extraordinary, as are the intricate characterizations. Although parts of this novel are overdone, it is McEwan's expertness that triumphs.<br />Atonement is a fine book that deserves widespread attention. I recommend this book for serious readers and those who yearn for more classicism in contemporary literature. You'll want to skip this novel, however, if you don't have the patience for detail or are looking for a suspenseful or complicated plot., if you don't have the patience for detail or are looking for a suspenseful or complicated plot.	2002-08-19
1448685:US	52801489	R13TOCOQKXUXB5	1579545521	302093710	In Sickness and In Health: A Love Story	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Loving and honest - a remarkable book	With both lyricism and candor, Karen Propp has written a remarkable book about love shadowed by danger - in this case her husband's battle with prostate cancer.  When Karen and Sam first meet, they are old enough and sensible enough not to have many illusions, but neither is prepared for his diagnosis.  The treatments leave both devastated, but despite the grim facts of living with recurrent cancer, their love for each other keeps them together.  This book is indeed, as the subtitle proclaims, a love story.  It is also a story of survival, not, as one might expect, for Sam, but for Propp.<br />The obvious recommendation would be for women whose husbands suffer from prostate cancer because Propp supplies details on the controversy of various treatments, of impotency, of therapy and support groups, of learning to live with a spouse forever changed, of raising a child in a house of illness.  However, Propp's examination of the interior of her marriage makes for compelling reading for a general readership.<br />In Sickness &amp; In Health should be required reading for all couples grappling with illness in the family.  Even those untouched as yet by such a crisis will find the poignant examination of love and the stubborn will to survive a reason to read this book.	2002-08-07
1459319:US	52801489	R2L4EVA1FLAPPE	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	343	378	N	N	An intriguing debut - and an excellent read	Alice Sebold has written a remarkable debut novel.  The narrator, Susie Salmon, was raped and murdered in 1973 and now resides in her heaven; yet, her voice contains none of the bitterness one would expect.  She is able to see into the lives of those who touched her in life and death. At times wistful - for she will never be able to experience growing up - and others matter-of-fact, Susie witnesses the changes and growth within her family and small circle of friends.  Her story is not one about death, but about loss and affirming life in its face, about moving on not only for those she left behind but for herself.  The reader won't be able to escape the sadness in these pages - I came close to crying several times - but the overall tone is hardly grim. Because Susie is secure and happy in her heaven, she keeps the story full of light and optimism.<br />This novel is not flawless, nor should it expected to be.  The narrative loses some of its momentum near the end. In addition, Sebold makes the mistake of adding a scene (which I won't describe here) seemingly designed to lessen the reader's regret about Susie's missed coming-of-age, but instead the scene falls flat.  Susie's loss is as much a part of this book as her family's is, and to pretend it can be reversed, even if only temporarily, defeats the story.  Still, given the first two-thirds of the book, this misstep and others can be forgiven.<br /><br />The Lovely Bones is one of those books you can pick up and not want to put down again until you finish.  At roughly 325 pages, this novel demands to be read on a plane, or on the beach, or when you have good chunks of time available to sit with it. Don't frustrate yourself by allowing a half hour here and there.<br />This is one book that deserves its spot on the bestseller list.	2002-07-29
1462063:US	52801489	R2NVF564YJ4U1C	0679751769	886305962	Solibo Magnificent (Vintage International)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Chamoiseau deserves a wider audience!	Patrick Chamoiseau's Solibo Magnificent is a powerful novel, both hilarious and tragic at once.  In Fort-de-France, Martinique, Solibo (a Creole nickname meaning somersault or pirouette) has dropped dead in front of some of his followers after uttering a non-sequitor, \\"That potato!\\"  His band of listeners, believing this to be a part of Solibo's act, wait patiently for the great man to rouse himself.  When he doesn't, the police are brought in, and they at once suspect the witnesses , which include the character of the author, of having murdered Solibo.  What follows is part slapstick, part theater of the absurb, part philosophy, part tragedy, part magic, all poetry.  Somehow Chamoiseaux manages to meld these elements into a coherent whole that makes this novel an extraordinary experience.<br />As other reviewers have noted, this story is not only about the death and murder investigation of a beloved storyteller, but about the death of the oral tradition in general.  Chamoiseau leaves no doubt that he intends the reader to walk away with this notion.  Written words are inadequate to describe the power of the spoken; one has only to read the reconstructed version of Solibo's last words at the end of the book to understand this. Despite the somewhat heavy-handed approach to his theme, Chamoiseau tells a riveting story with natural lyricism.  (Kudos to the translators!)<br />This author deserves a much wider readership (or is it audience?)	2002-07-26
1481179:US	52801489	R37Z8PKSMOZI03	0425185222	797140461	Six Strokes Under (Golf Lover's Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	I can't wait for Isleib's next!	Roberta Isleib's debut novel, SIX STROKES UNDER, marks the introduction of a great new talent in the mystery field.<br />Cassie Burdette is a spunky, intelligent woman with baggage - difficult relationships with her parents, failed and unrequited love affairs,and dreams never realized.  She has decided that she will make her one and only stab at making the LPGA tour despite the odds against her.  Before she leaves for the tournament (Q-School), she stumbles upon a murdered psychologist who just  happens to be the controversial therapist for two of her competitors. As Cassie tries to compete for the chance of a lifetime, she is dogged by the police, her past, and an ever deepening mystery surrounding the small group of young, ambitious golfers.<br />I could not put this book down once I started it.  Isleib writes extraordinarily well, with sentences that flow and characters that engage.  Although at times I questioned Cassie's and the police's logic, the story and the characters have the solid, believable feel of reality.  The pacing is impeccable - never slow, never rushed.<br />Despite the label above the title that proclaims this &quot;A Golf Lover's Mystery,&quot; this book should appeal not only to golfers but to all who love a good mystery.  Readers will be eagerly awaiting the next installment in a promising series.	2002-07-09
1482042:US	52801489	RXCXO4MK3XRXD	0312283105	911237709	Crustaceans	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An intimate journey	Andrew Cowan's newest novel begins in sadness:  the narrator Paul addresses his dead son Euan with a muted sorrow that finds the beauty in the most simple of scenes. This quietly emotional novel continues on a journey of the past to explore Paul's relationship with Euan as well as with others integral to his life, including his own father.  Illuminated by his grief for Euan, Paul's life comes into sharp focus as the author leads the reader inexorably to the conclusion.<br />This is a purely literary work, recommended for those who love language and the meanings of gestures, who like to discover greater truths through the details of ordinary lives.  Cowan's prose is lyrical yet clear, at times self-conscious but always impressive.  His abundant talents for literary fiction are on full display in this book.  However, if you are searching for an uplifting book with a compelling plot, I recommend that you look elsewhere.	2002-07-09
1496393:US	52801489	R2410CS0TMFK6K	0375411968	32157599	Burning Marguerite	Books	5	18	18	N	N	I adored this!	Already a master of the short story, Elizabeth Inness-Brown now proves herself to be an exceptional novelist as well.  BURNING MARGUERITE is one of those rare books that lives beyond its pages.<br />The novel begins simply: James finds his elderly \\"guardian\\" Marguerite dead in the morning snow. What follows, however, is anything but simple:  we learn of the complex relationship between James Jack and his Tante Marguerite, of Marguerite's unconventional and tragic past, of what the future might hold for James.  Every detail is related with vibrancy and relevance so the reader is constantly engaged in this touching novel of love and death. The world created here is as full and as real as one can find in 250 pages.<br />Inness-Brown has an astounding talent for narrative and language. She has a deceptively direct style; the words are ordinary but the images and emotions they convey are extraordinary.  Her characters are so expertly drawn that they have a depth and humanity that few novelists achieve, let alone in their debuts.<br />I highly recommend this book.  Although readers of literary fiction will be naturally drawn to this novel, readers of more commercial works should also find much to delight them. This accessible tale has a universality that should appeal to a wide range of readers.	2002-06-27
1505650:US	52801489	R1MF7T4O17WPQ6	0066211611	632147021	Portrait in Sepia: A Novel	Books	4	56	58	N	N	The title says it all	I read this book at an extremely leisurely pace:  a few pages at a time, over the course of weeks. Strangely enough, Allende's novel seems perfect for this kind of catch-as-catch-can type of reading.  It doesn't have the narrative drive of a book you can't put down, but it has the characters and history to keep you returning.<br />In many ways, this novel is less of a story than a portrait of characters that have largely appeared elsewhere in her fiction, although it's not necessary to have read these other books. The emphasis is unequivocably on the del Valles, with Paulina del Valle the most memorable.  Paulina is the glue that holds everything together.  Other characters, equally well drawn, appear strongly in some sections, then vanish into the background, thus shifting the attention back to Paulina.  Not surprisingly, the most elusive character is the narrator, Aurora, who is also the photographer, both literally and metaphorically.  The story is filtered through her lens - her experience, perceptions, and ideas.<br />The &quot;sepia&quot; part of the title refers to the historical/nostalgic atmosphere of the novel.  Allende takes her characters through the San Francisco of Gold Rush times and through turbulent times in Chile during war and the rise of women's rights.  Here, everything is a memory.<br />The plot?  The novel traces Aurora del Valle's life, from the times leading up to her conception to the moment when, as an adult, she is given back the crucial memory that has subconsciously defined her.  You won't find a single driving conflict here; even Aurora's perplexity about her mysterious dream surfaces only now and then.  Instead, you will find a family album, complete with the syphilitic uncle, the feminist aunt who is always pregnant, the gluttonous and proud matriarch, and the butler rumored to be a nobleman who scandalously marries into the family.<br />Allende writes with confidence and skill, sometimes overdoing the prose but quickly righting herself.  Her circuitous approach to this story - attacking different moments and events from various directions, shifting in and out of times, mixing bits of stories from several characters - makes this novel one to sit with for a while.  Fans of her early fiction will be disappointed about the lack of magic realism, but her hand with detail and characterization remains as steady as always.<br />I recommend this novel for Allende fans and readers of character-driven fiction.  Readers who expect a driving narrative, however, will find this work lacking.herself.  Her circuitous approach to this story - attacking different moments and events from various directions, shifting in and out of times, mixing bits of stories from several characters - makes this novel one to sit with for a while.  Fans of her early fiction will be disappointed about the lack of magic realism, but her hand with detail and characterization remains as steady as always. <br />I recommend this novel for Allende fans and readers of character-driven fiction.  Readers who expect a driving narrative, however, will find this work lacking.	2002-06-18
1653700:US	52801489	R3D3WGXUBN15JG	0743237188	434448992	Fall On Your Knees (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A book you won't want to put down!	As with all of Oprah's selections, some people will read this book simply because she has recommended it.  Others will refuse to read it simply because she has recommended it.  Whichever camp you fall into, read this book for its own merits:  expert storytelling, gorgeous prose, complex characters and plot, and a literary sensibility that elevates it above the tawdriness of its particulars.<br />The Pipers of Cape Breton Island are haunted by secrets,forgotten memories, and sexual desires that carry them along like the waters of the creek next to their house. Although Kathleen's diary near the end weakens the magic of the rest, MacDonald's skill makes this a spectacular accomplishment.  Like most of Oprah's selections, this one has a strong literary side without sacrificing accessibility, making it both a good read and an artistic journey.<br />This is the kind of book you hold to your chest for a few moments before you put it down. Read it, and you won't regret it.	2002-02-15
1654070:US	52801489	R2I0R088I3KV3A	0312283555	306046407	Three to See the King: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An odd but interesting short novel	I advise you not try to make too much sense of this short novel by Booker Prize-nominated Magnus Mills.  Go along for the ride and take what you can from it.  The unnamed narrator lives in a house made of tin on a wind-howling plain far from civilization.  A woman he barely remembers (but who seems to know a lot about him) arrives at his doorstep and moves in.  Her presence draws the attention of the narrator's three neighbors, each of whom lives miles away in their own solitary tin houses.  These three - Steve Treacle, Philip Sibling, and Simon Painter - begin to form bonds among themselves, although the narrator cautiously remains outside their circle until they bring word of another man living &quot;further out&quot;, Michael Hawkins, who is reported to have all the answers. Jealous, resentful, and curious, the narrator eventually succombs to the urge to visit Michael to see what all the fuss is about.<br />Other reviewers have likened this book to a re-telling of the Adam and Eve story, but I don't see it.  If anything, Mills has fashioned his plot closer to the story of Jesus and His betrayal. Even then, you won't find a close fit. At times, you'll been convinced this is a fable, but then Mills will introduce something so mundane, such as the narrator angering Mary Petrie by tracking sand into the house, that you'll allow yourself to believe that it is a more realistic story.  Filled with absurd details, supernatural accomplishments, a dissection of ordinary male/female relationships, and a messianic figure surrounded by common pettiness, this novel defies easy description. Precisely because of this, I enjoyed reading it - I never knew where it was headed. Its oddity has charm, and the clear, thoughtful prose drives this book forward from first sentence to last. On its own or as a parable, this book will hold your interest.	2002-02-15
1688471:US	52801489	R1LGR7EINMFY7V	1556708262	658550180	Ancient Mexico: The History and Culture of the Maya, Aztecs and Other Pre-Columbian Peoples	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A gorgeous book of ancient cultures	This book is packed with information and color photographs of the ancient cultures of Mexico, from the Olmecs to the Zapotecs to the Mayas to the Aztecs. The author even includes sections on the lesser known and understood cultures of Western Mexico.  With a fold-out time line and detailed maps of the most famous archaeological sites, this book gives a good overview of the history of these cultures - and then hones in on specifics such as dress, burial customs, religion, war, and games.  Extensive attention is also given to the major cities representing these peoples.  With color photographs on nearly every page, this is a gorgeous addition to any library. As a reference book, or even as a coffee table book to browse through occasionally, ANCIENT MEXICO can't be beat.	2002-01-19
1711272:US	52801489	RPR75QR6D6RNR	1930709145	697192297	Family Correspondence	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Mothers and daughters, well told	Teresa Miller's Family Correspondence opens with a chain letter which promises, true to the form, to bring bad luck upon anyone breaking its chain.  At first, this seems like a puzzling beginning, until we discover that the recipient, Marie, is a teenage girl who is trying to cope with her mother's grave illness.  And so begins this novel that weaves tragedy with quirkiness, lives with written correspondence.  While at times the  narrative can be confusing and somewhat awkward(perhaps a better editing job was needed?), this book ultimately succeeds on its own terms as a emotional collage of a family. Miller shows real talent with her characterization, and this skill carries the novel forward with conviction, gathering strength with every chapter.<br />I recommend this novel to readers of women's fiction, as well as those interested in discovering new talents in literary fiction.	2002-01-02
1743418:US	52801489	R13LZWNK93D7AY	1566492254	458573740	Edinburgh	Books	5	46	47	N	Y	Beautifully written, sensitively told	This beautifully written novel's subject matter will probably alienate some readers, but I urge you to read this entire review before deciding whether this book is for you.<br />Twelve year old Aphias Zhe, nicknamed Fee, has a crystalline soprano voice, and so when he auditions for a boys choir, he is immediately accepted.  What Fee knows intuitively becomes concrete as the choir director, Big Eric, takes Fee and a few other boys on an outing in the woods: Big Eric is a pedophile who preys on the young boys' vulnerability.  Where others cannot, Fee sees right through to the man and his preference for fair-headed boys like Fee's best friend, Peter.  Fee, who is part Korean, part Scottish, is not a favorite; he watches mainly from a distance, knowing the danger Big Eric poses but unwilling to articulate it.  He hopes that the false front Big Eric has constructed will never crumble for, if it does, Fee fears he will also be revealed for what he is.  When the choir director is caught, the wake of his crime crushes his victims, even those who live to adulthood.<br />As Fee grows up, he appears to recover, but inside he wants to die.  He is gay, not because of the choir director's crime but in spite of it.  Fee wants love, tenderness, someone who can rival the affection he felt for Peter, and not the predatory sex Big Eric sought.  Yet, Fee continues to be haunted by what happened.  When as an adult he meets a blonde boy who reminds him of Peter and who, despite his young age, has a connection to what happened long ago, Fee must confront his demons.<br />While at times overly lyrical, the novel is a delicate coming-of-age story.  Chee has a remarkable command of images and language which add rich layers to what could have been a simple plot.  The emotion he infuses in his words makes Fee's pain and quest for love universal.  If you think only gay men will enjoy this, think again.  As a heterosexual woman, I found myself engrossed in this novel and its characters.  Ultimately, EDINBURGH is about truth, self, and the yearning for a place in the world.ely, EDINBURGH is about truth, self, and the yearning for a place in the world.	2001-12-06
1769727:US	52801489	R1OYZEZEB2MTEY	0374254303	273974893	For Rouenna: A Novel	Books	5	16	19	N	Y	Impressive, insightful, powerful	FOR ROUENNA starts comfortably enough, with the narrator, a novelist, receiving a letter from a woman she barely remembers from childhood.  This woman, the Rouenna of the title, pressures the narrator to visit her Brooklyn apartment so they can talk, though the narrator fears the intimacy of a face to face meeting.  Eventually, though, they meet, becoming friends despite their differences.  Their friendship has barely taken root when Rouenna commits suicide in her mother's house in New Jersey.  As the narrator tries to come to terms with the loss, she finds herself writing about Rouenna - her difficult childhood in the projects of Staten Island, and, most compellingly, of her time in war-torn Vietnam as a military nurse.  The story becomes a powerful, unsettling eulogy not only for Rouenna, but for the innocence America lost during those turbulent times.<br />This is not a typical Vietnam War novel.  Page-wise, the war itself probably takes up no more than a third of the book.  By structuring her novel this way, Nunez gives the war context, culturally, historically, and personally, so that its reach goes far beyond its era.<br />You should not miss reading this extraordinary novel.	2001-11-15
1788525:US	52801489	RHTHJ2G1RQXM8	0345441621	70261650	Among the Missing	Books	5	7	7	N	N	You won't be disappointed!	This bittersweet collection by Dan Chaon is an emotional collage of stories related only by theme: someone, or something, is missing.  What these characters miss most is understanding of their lives and those of their loved ones.  Parents, in particular, can be touched physically but never truly known because their private moments are too far out of reach.  Sometimes the absence in these stories is real:  a missing family (&quot;Among the Missing) or an arm (&quot;Prothesis&quot;).  Mostly, however, the gaping hole is more internal, such as the difficult reality forgotten by the odd, overly imaginative boy in &quot;Big Me.&quot;  In these stories, people are strangers to one another, even though they might live together or profoundly and unwittingly affect the course of one another's lives.<br />Chaon uses uncomplicated language that disarms the reader with its simplicity.  His prose is so undemanding on the surface that the emotion undercurrents can sneak up on you, such as in &quot;The Illustrated Encyclopedia of the Animal Kingdom&quot; when the final line of the story gives us a glimpse of the desperation, loneliness, and incomprehension of the protagonist:  &quot;He could have sworn in his heart that something terrible had happened to the world, and that everyone knew it but him.&quot;<br />If you are a reader of short fiction, you won't be disappointed with AMONG THE MISSING.	2001-11-01
1790600:US	52801489	RBYEPM9ABGSTY	0399148124	984597357	The Webster Chronicle	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A serious, well-written novel	Daniel Akst takes his readers into the small town of Webster, where Terry Mathers and his estranged wife Abigail run the weekly newspaper, The Webster Chronicle, in a time of change.  The local department store is embroiled in a takeover bid that threatens the downtown as Webster knows it (no matter that most people shop at the mall), and the Alphabet Soup preschool is so popular that they admit children on a competitive basis (even though it is used primarily for day-care and not academic enrichment.)  Single parenthood is on the rise.  In this environment, the stage is set for an unknowning reenactment of the Salem witch trials:  a drunken, bereaved mother shouts out a single, misunderstood accusation, and the town is forever changed by hysteria.<br />Akst is best here when he explores Webster through the eyes of Terry Mathers, the stuttering, struggling, editor who feels that he will always be living in the shadow of his father, a well-known newscaster. Emily,the owner of the preschool who is accused of child abuse, also has a compelling perspective, but some of the others water down the central thrust of the novel.  Akst, in his attempt to fully explore the issues, spreads himself too thin, sometimes glossing over areas he has carefully introduced, other times concentrating on a minor aspect. However, the quality of the writing carries this story through its weaknesses with aplomb.<br />Although THE WEBSTER CHRONICLE does not have the emotional energy of Akst's debut, ST. BURL'S OBITUARY, it does have the mark of a maturing novelist.  Akst is a literary talent to watch.<br />I recommend this book for readers of literary fiction as well as for those interested in issues of small town America, false memories, child abuse, and mass hysteria.	2001-10-30
1795900:US	52801489	R1QIMZ8WRGI8MV	0816014000	984435292	The Practical Archaeologist: How We Know What We Know About the Past	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A good, basic book on archaeology	THE PRACTICAL ARCHAEOLGIST is a sound overview of the profession, from the tools used to dating methods to underwater techniques.  Interpersed with the main text are intriguing sidebars about important finds - for me, the highlight of this book.  Told in simple, easy to understand language, this book is geared for those with a casual interest in archaeology, or for high school students.  Besides the simplicity (which may be a selling point for many), the main drawback of this book is the lack of discussion on recent finds, despite a copyright date of 1999.<br />If you are considering studying archaeology, or if you have a passing interest in it, you'll find this book both useful and enjoyable; however, if you crave an in-depth study of the field, look elsewhere.  Without doubt, this is an excellent starting point for budding archaeologists.	2001-10-26
1800194:US	52801489	R1B6C50TOBD05L	0967370183	946531254	Four Corners	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Well-written, enjoyable, quirky!	I've read far too many novels recently in this genre - the smart aleck young girl coming of age in a difficult, quirky family - to rave about FOUR CORNERS, but I must say I enjoyed reading it.  Freund has created a fictional world peopled by dysfunctional, often hilariously so, characters.  Ten year old Rainey (okay - she doesn't seem ten, but she's lovable) and her four siblings lose their mother to insanity one summer.  Their foul-mouthed, cynical, no-nonsense aunt Merle arrives from the Bronx to care for them since their father, who works long hours as a bartender and who doesn't have much emotional backbone, cannot.  But the real gift to Rainey is her cousin Joan, a headstrong troubled teen who shows Rainey a side of life she has not known.  As the summer wears on and still Rainey's mother does not return, a series of crises, some small and some not, convince Rainey that it was she who drove her mother mad.<br />Merle is a brilliantly wrought character, especially as her voice begins to merge with Rainey's.  Her character and Joan's are the true triumphs of this novel; they are both vibrant and sad portrayals of strong women who struggle against the odds of their limited futures.  The men and boys tend to be either creepy (Joan's brother and father, Harold the cruel burn victim, even Eddie Birdseye who comes across as kind and happy at first) or nondescript (Rainey's father and her brothers.)<br />If you like character-driven fiction with an offbeat mix of humor and pathos, this book is for you. You won't find suspense or plot twists, but you'll find yourself engrossed in Freund's fictional world, turning page after page until you're done.	2001-10-22
1812191:US	52801489	RP2GJ4TLAY5KW	0374527008	311905626	Indivisible by Four: A String Quartet in Pursuit of Harmony	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Insightful and entertaining	This insightful book by Arnold Steinhardt, the first violinist of the Guarneri String Quartet, is a must-read for anyone, whether musician or listener, with an interest in chamber music.  Steinhardt traces his own evolution from aspiring soloist to quartet member, as well as detailing the inner workings of the Guarneri Quartet.  Anecdotes abound here, with often humorous, intimate glimpses of well-known musicians such as Pinkas Zuckerman, Rudolf Serkin, and Arthur Rubinstein. Steinhardt's love of music is palpable as he discusses the strengths and pitfalls of specific pieces, the textures of orchestral and chamber music, the playing styles of various musicians.  The most interesting aspect of this book, however, is the process by which four highly individual musicians learn to play as one.<br />Although repetitious at times, this book is a delightful examination of one of the most celebrated quartets of our time.	2001-10-12
1824924:US	52801489	R3VO30UQGECOJZ	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Part thriller, part literary novel - a great read!	You won't be able to put this book down. Kathy Hepinstall knows how to tell a story, and she won't let you escape.<br />Eleven year old Alice and her older brother Boone fear for their lives.  Their stepfather Simon has a murky past and a mean streak, though their mother Meg is oblivious because she is happy to be loved by a man again.  Wise and skeptical Alice sees the inconsistencies in Simon's stories and the frightening line of rage between his eyes.  When Simon discovers Boone's correspondance with an infamous teen who periodically escapes from the local mental institution, he threatens to poison them.  Alice and Boone have no defense against him other than memorizing details about the various poisons so they can avoid being tricked.  They know they are headed for a grisly end, even though they can not yet fathom what it might be.<br />The pacing of the novel is nearly flawless, and the prose carrries the reader effortlessly through this world of treachery.  Part thriller, part literary novel, this book expertly weaves the ordinary with the extraordinary, making the fear of being poisoned seem possible in a house that has Kool-Aid in the refrigerator and a not-so-bright dog in the yard.  The characters are deftly drawn, with personalities that seem all too real despite their idiosyncrasies.  Alice, although often seeming far older than her years, is consistently herself, with her smart aleck comments and instinct to survive.  Boone is less convincing as a Bible-quoting fourteen year old who &quot;falls in love&quot; with Persely Snow, the mental patient.  Dreamy and dependent Meg, though not a woman of substnace, has presence here, as does Simon and his mercurial personality.  Even the twins across the street are unforgettable, though they do not do much more than teach Alice's dog tricks and snitch on Boone.<br />The main flaw in this book - and believe me, it shouldn't keep you from reading it - is a few forced turns of the plot. Although Alice never seems 11 (more like 16), I found this distracting only when the author reminded me that she was younger than her brother.  These weaknesses pale in the hands of such an expert storyteller.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone searching for an engrossing read.ems 11 (more like 16), I found this distracting only when the author reminded me that she was younger than her brother.  These weaknesses pale in the hands of such an expert storyteller.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone searching for an engrossing read.	2001-09-29
1826199:US	52801489	RF9PM6RLAWS3G	073820031X	281969211	The Writer's Legal Companion: The Complete Handbook For The Working Writer, Third Edition	Books	5	21	21	N	N	This novelist wouldn't do without it!	Without this book, I would never have been able to negotiate my first book contract.  Bunnin and Beren gave me the necessary tools:  book contract language and what it means, fair and unfair clauses, negotiating tactics, and how to get most of what I wanted.  The sections on contracts alone are worth the price.  They are by far the most valuable aspect of this book<br />But there is more here than information about book contracts.  This book will teach you the necessary skills to be a business person, to think like the small business owner you are.  Writers have a tendency to want to deal with art only, shying away from finance and law, but the authors point out time after time how dangerous this stance can be. With the knowledge provided here, you will protect yourself and your career.<br />Whether you are a new writer or an experienced professional, this book is a must-have.	2001-09-27
1827289:US	52801489	R2TFY72L9RO93A	0380780496	611117139	Brazzaville Beach	Books	5	57	58	N	N	Suspenseful and intelligent - I loved it!	I adored this book from start to finish.  Hope Clearwater is in worn-torn Africa observing chimpanzee behavior when she notices a startling trend that conflicts with everything her boss and mentor believes.  Her integrity - and perhaps much more - is threatened when everyone at the camp seems to turn against her.  Interwoven with flashbacks to her previous life in England with her bizarre but brilliant mathematician husband and the story of her Egyptian mercenary lover who flies a Mig for one side of the civil war, the story draws powerful parallels between the two primate societies, human and chimp.<br />How can a novel that discusses the difference between turbulence and topology in mathematics be a page turner?  You'll have to read this book to believe it.  Other than the name of Hope Clearwater - a bit too much in this otherwise subtle tale - Boyd writes deftly and passionately, sometimes with horrifying precision as he describes what is happening among the chimps.<br />This suspenseful and intelligent novel deserves a wide readership.  I only wish I had learned of it sooner!	2001-09-27
1842136:US	52801489	R1XLRU8XPL48SA	0399148051	549116087	The Deadwood Beetle	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Compelling, heartfelt fiction	This wise and gorgeously wrought novel had me by the heart from its first sentence. Tristan Martens, a retired entomologist in his seventies, has discovered by accident the blackened pine sewing table once owned by his mother in the Nazi occupied Netherlands.  As he recognizes it in the New York antique shop - &quot;this ghost, this small, lost thing, floating like a piece of impossible wreckage toward me&quot; - he knows he must possess it to keep its secret from the world.  The owner Cora Lowenstein, who has misinterpreted the childlike scrawl on the table's underside, stands in his way.  The table is not for sale.  And so Tristan begins to scheme in his careful but ultimately clumsy way to persuade her otherwise.<br />Dressler is a skilled novelist with a flair for language and storytelling.  The voice of Tristan is so authentic and honest that I can't imagine any reader emerging from this tale without a deep affection for him.  As he struggles with guilt, his grown and unyielding son, the stirrings of love, and his mortality, we come to understand that a seemingly simple life is not necessarily so. His last graduate student Elida periodically bursts into his apartment, urging him to leave his boxes of dead beetles to get out more, but we already know Tristan has done and seen more than she has (though Elida, too, has her demons.)<br />THE DEADWOOD BEETLE is one of those books that lingers in the imagination long after its reading.  You won't regret a minute spent with this author and her extraordinary novel.	2001-09-11
1843855:US	52801489	RBV00TZ9N25VJ	0441627404	52422715	The Once and Future King	Books	4	222	237	N	N	I'm Glad I Finally Read This!	Somehow, I missed this classic when growing up, so when my daughter was assigned this book for her eighth grade honors English course, I eagerly picked it up. I was well rewarded for my efforts.<br />The Sword in the Stone, the most famous of the quartet and the first, was for me the least interesting, perhaps because of its lack of driving conflict. It concerns the education of Arthur, called The Wart, in often hilarious scenes as Merlyn sets out to instruct him in the way of all creatures.<br />The Queen of Air and Darkness is a better story than the first, though it lacks the substance of the two later books. It tells of the history and childhood of the Orkney clan (Sirs Gawaine, Gaheris, Agravaine, Gareth, and Mordred) as well as preparing for the emotional battles about to begin.<br />The Ill-Made Knight is simply brilliant, giving Sir Lancelot a humanity I never thought possible, not for a knight living in legend. The love triangle of Arthur, Lancelot, and Guenever (called Gwen by Arthur and Jenny by Lancelot) is given life and understanding, real force. When I finished this book, I had to stop and swallow all the angst and love before I could continue.<br />A Candle in the Wind begins with some of the most monotonous descriptive writing possible, with White devoting ten solid pages to Lancelot and Guenever looking out a window onto medieval England. I began to believe that White was desperate to incorporate all his research. Once the story got going, however, I couldn't put it down as the tragedy of King Arthur's life unfolded.<br />Although these four separately published books are often described as a modern retelling of the legend of King Arthur, readers should be aware that they were written in the late thirties and early forties, a time when readers tackled demanding reading more readily than people do today. Do not expect to breeze through the volumes; even The Sword in the Stone, long regarded as a children's classic, is written in language far too complicated and scenes much too descriptive for a casual reader. White engages in expository pages - about Arthur's philosophy, the history of the feudal system, the evolution of courts of law, etc. - that for me watered down the narrative drive. This is my reason for taking away a star from the rating.<br />The characters, however, are drawn with precision. I took delight in White's imagining of Sir Gawaine (&quot;Sir Gawaine and the Green Knight&quot;, if you can remember from freshman English) and his rough-and-tumble brothers. Lancelot and Guenever are drawn with affectionate details of their strengths and failings. Mordred is a wonderfully villain, a man both mad and cunning, with a history that makes his actions seem not only believable but inevitable. Arthur, too, is given flesh, although his generosity and lack of brilliance make him less interesting than the others.<br />I could write on and on about this book, but Amazon.com has a word limit. Read The Once and Future King, and see for yourself.omplicated and scenes much too descriptive for a casual reader. White engages in expository pages - about Arthur's philosophy, the history of the feudal system, the evolution of courts of law, etc. - that for me watered down the narrative drive. This is my reason for taking away a star from the rating.<br />The characters, however, are drawn with precision. I took delight in White's imagining of Sir Gawaine (&quot;Sir Gawaine and the Green Knight&quot;, if you can remember from freshman English) and his rough-and-tumble brothers. Lancelot and Guenever are drawn with affectionate details of their strengths and failings. Mordred is a wonderfully villain, a man both mad and cunning, with a history that makes his actions seem not only believable but inevitable. Arthur, too, is given flesh, although his generosity and lack of brilliance make him less interesting than the others.<br />I could write on and on about this book, but Amazon.com has a word limit. Read The Once and Future King, and see for yourself.	2001-09-10
1880048:US	52801489	R12GW5HUXQOC1	0375506276	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A minor work, but still Irving	I'm giving this book three stars only because it does not measure up to John Irving's other works; it doesn't have the fresh originality of GARP, the issues of OWEN MEANY, or the complexity of A WIDOW.  If this were a debut novel, people would be heralding the arrival of a new talent, but, as it is, it will probably go down as one of Irving's minor works.<br />Patrick Wallingford's hand is eaten by a lion in India, and at once he loses both his wife (through no fault of the lion's) and his relatively obscure role as a reporter on the sensationalist all-news network. As the &quot;lion guy&quot;, with the hand eating footage played over and over, Patrick is dogged by what is missing - and it's not just his hand.  When he is the recipient of one of the first hand transplants, he finally learns what he wants:  the wife of the donor, who herself is more in love with the hand than with Patrick.<br />This does not make for convincing fiction, at least not at the level Irving usually writes.  Characters are drawn meticulously, then dropped as though Irving lost interest with them.  For example, a full twenty-five pages are devoted to the hand surgeon, his relationship with his son, and their feces-eating dog (a characteristic that seems to be mentioned every paragraph), none of which has any bearing on the outcome of the novel.  I never bought the love between Patrick and his love Mrs. Clausen (the fact Patrick thinks of her as Mrs. Clausen for the entire book tells you something), nor did I feel caught up in Patrick's life. Gimmicks abound, but don't seem to serve as much more than entertainment. Even the current events mentioned don't accomplish much more than marking time.<br />Irving clearly loves his characters, and that shows with sometimes remarkable detail. I urge fans who are disappointed with this not to despair.  Every writer deserves a few lesser efforts to round out his canon.<br />Fans of Irving's fiction should read this, if only to get a full sense of this novelist's strengths and flaws.novelist's strengths and flaws.	2001-08-13
1925846:US	52801489	R1B5VMD83QUGCO	1588513513	202500840	Bloodsworth Island	Books	2	18	21	N	N	Disappointing	I really wanted to be able to write a positive review for Rearden and Slate's Bloodsworth Island. I have a soft spot for new authors, and for that reason briefly considered whitewashing my evaluation. In the end, however, I felt compelled to be honest: this book lacks strength in almost every area.<br />That's not to say there aren't elements here to praise.  These two new authors clearly love to tell a story and know something about creating suspense, essential in a thriller.  So what failed?  The prose is bland and often awkward, and the characters, despite the authors' attempts to lay details on top of them, are two-dimensional.  The main character, supposedly a man bright enough to be a doctor, someone who has come created an ingenious marker to identify cystic fibrosis carriers (and &quot;genetically perfect&quot; to boot) demonstrates the wit of a flea.  I don't care if he IS a member of a cult; a man of that intelligence should have sensibilities greater than those of a five year old child.  The authors seem to have confused brainwashing with brain removal.  As for the premise, that cult leader Dr. Gallagher, with his evil genetic purity plan, has positioned himself favorably largely by his government contracts and contacts, is preposterous.  The security clearance process required of people working on top secret projects (even if they don't work directly for the government) would reveal at once a cult, something the US goverment would dump in an instant.  The above are just a few of many holes in this book.<br />Rearden and Slate have accomplished what many aspiring writers never do:  a finished book.  Now they need to learn that a novel is more than an idea, a plot.  Once they incorporate all the elements of fiction into their work, weaving each into the whole of the others, they will be well on their way to careers as fiction writers.  I wish them the best of luck.	2001-07-10
1934622:US	52801489	R1FGMSFM07TVPB	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Literary magic!	THE RED TENT is a wonderfully rich and imaginative novel, set firmly in the ancient culture of Canaan where Jacob, the son of Isaac, took up residence with his four wives during his exile.  Narrated by Dinah, the daughter of Jacob and Leah, this story is not a re-telling of the tales so familiar to Jews and Christians, but rather it explores what is not told:  the story of the women.  As the only daughter raised by Jacob's wives, Dinah is the heir to her mothers' stories and knowledge.  The sequestering of women, both in daily chores and during their menses, gives rise to a sisterhood and a subculture unknown to the men, and the intimacy shared in the red tent is what shapes and sustains Dinah, even after a tragic event rips her from it. Both wistful and celebratory in tone, this novel has real literary magic.<br />Diamant uses a dreamy, spiritual language that draws the reader into the heart of the story. Jacob's wives are clearly drawn, as individuals and as sisters, rivals and friends. The male characters, while distinct, are not as fully realized, mostly because they reside outside the realm of women. Although I cannot attest to the accuracy of ancient cultural detail, Diamant has convinced me that she has researched her subject matter well, supplying details that root her story in its time.<br />Readers should not expect to find confirmation of Judaic-Christian beliefs:  the religion here is one of multiple gods and goddesses, the beliefs of the women Jacob married but not his own. Some might even find it sacrilegious in its re-interpretation and expansion of Biblical events, which form only the framework around which this novel is built. Unless you are easily offended by such approaches, don't turn away from the book because of this.  Diamant has painted an entire world that should not be missed.<br />Like the red tent, this book might drive away men, but women will find its riches rewarding.  I highly recommend it for serious and casual readers alike.	2001-07-03
1935040:US	52801489	R2EJYBLX0752XJ	0062734288	491699791	Essential ASL: The Fun, Fast, and Simple Way to Learn American Sign Language	Books	3	24	24	N	N	Yes, it's simple . . .	&quot;Simple&quot; is the operative word here. While this guide provides illustrations and arrows to show movement, the vocabulary is more limited than I had expected.  I did appreciate both verbal and illustrated descriptions of each word, so if I couldn't figure out what one meant, I could go to the other.<br />This book is for those curious about ASL, or for those (like me) who need only the barest knowledge of it.  For people who seriously want (or need) to learn ASL, find another, more definitive book. This one will only frustrate you with its simplicity.	2001-07-03
1935678:US	52801489	RLR7E88Y04YTC	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	The evocative and imagined story behind a painting	Tracy Chevalier's novel imagines the life behind a painting, a conceit in lesser hands that could have sustained no more than a short story. Griet, the daughter of a blinded and thus unemployed tilemaker, is sent into the Vermeer household as a maid where she quickly learns the ways of servitude.  Griet is not well-liked by the senior maid nor by her mistress, both of whom are jealous of her because she, and not they, are allowed into Vermeer's studio.  Griet is beautiful and has an eye for color and order, qualities the painter finds enchanting.  How she ends up in the painting and what it does to the futures of all involved make up this tale.<br />This book is easily read in a couple of sittings - maybe even one, if you have the time.  Because I read it back to back with Anita Diamant's The Red Tent, I found it lacking in complexity and depth, but was a good read all the same.  Griet's chores in the household are well imagined and precise, and the historical details Chevalier provides, particularly those pertaining to the grinding and creation of color, are a delight.  While Vermeer himself seems elusive as a character, almost as though the author were afraid of giving him flesh, the other major characters are solid. I couldn't help liking Griet and feeling for her difficult position.<br />This is an excellent vacation book, not demanding but still evocative. You don't have to be interested in art or Vermeer or historical fiction to enjoy this book.  It stands on its own as the story of a young woman coming of age and learning where her place in the world lies.	2001-07-03
1935797:US	52801489	R1SZCORJKNGNF1	0345442938	233103962	My Only Story	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A real find. It's worth tracking this one down!	Stumbling upon MY ONLY STORY was like falling through the roof of a cave to discover jewel encrusted walls.  Every page, every scene offered some new treasure:  a description, a touching scene, a wild and hilarious observation, another character both off-beat and real. The narrator, Rita, is a divorced hair stylist who has inherited her grandmother's love of Tarot and fortune-telling, though she doesn't always get it right.  Or she makes it up only to find that her lie was the truth.  Or . . . well, she has a good, honest heart.  She has a vivid dream of a crippled dog and somehow converts him into the real life person of John Reed, a man torn apart by his dead brother's past and his own lack of a future.  Rita inserts herself into John's life, convinced that she is the one destined to make him whole again.  What follows is both hilarious and bittersweet.<br />I found this novel to be reminiscent of Anne Tyler's early work, with its quirky characters and its wild but realistic plot. Fans of Juliana Baggott's GIRL TALK should appreciate this, although this novel is the more ambitious of the two. If you enjoy a little fun with your literary fiction, you should find this book to be exactly what you crave.	2001-07-03
1971824:US	52801489	R39ZFAUQH6H00B	0743400828	415925706	Girl Talk	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Coming of age with a fresh voice	In the tradition of many American debut novelists, Julianna Baggott has constructed a coming-of-age story told in first person.  To her enormous credit, Baggott distinguishes her book from the pack. The narrative voice of Lissy is fresh and endearing as she tells of a crazy summer &quot;that never was&quot; when her father left the family for Vivian Spivy, a red-headed bank teller. To escape the gossip and shame, Lissy's mother takes her on a road trip that will forever shape their lives.  They land first on Cape Cod (&quot;the Cod&quot; as her mother calls it) and then in Bayonne, New Jersey, where her mother's story began.<br />Peopled by memorable and off-beat characters, this novel takes the reader from the childhood Lissy to the floundering adult as she learns (in details far too intimate for a ordinary teenager) the story of her mother and her loves, how Lissy came to be and what she could have been instead.<br />Baggott shows clear talent here with lively language, confident characterizations, and sharp insight.  Though the novel seems to struggle to find its conclusion, it does eventually get there despite some heavyhandedness.  The final scene is perhaps the most touching and the most true moment in the entire book.<br />This is a worthwhile read, and Baggott is most definitely a novelist to watch.  Brief and breezy in tone, this would make a great beach or airplane book.  And if you aren't going on vacation any time soon?  Take your vacation in Lissy's world.	2001-06-05
1979205:US	52801489	R3TN8H0G3725WQ	0060987561	406344440	I Know This Much Is True (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	More ambitious than She's Come Undone - and better too!	Wally Lamb's second novel, I KNOW THIS MUCH IS TRUE, is more ambitious and more fully realized than his first, SHE'S COME UNDONE, with thematic chords being struck with greater complexity and subtlety.<br />Dominick and Thomas are born identical twins but, perhaps in an argument for nurture over nature, they grow up to be entirely different people.  Thomas, always fawned over by their mother, is now schizophrenic, with frightening bouts of self-mutilation that wound Dominick emotionally.  Dominick both loves and fears his twin, and is torn by what they share. He discovers, through a translation of a family document, how dark their ancestral past is, and what he must battle in himself.  He begins to see patterns - of abuse, of insanity, of violence, of passivity, of failed love - that shake him to the core.<br />But Dominick is a survivor and a caretaker, which is what this novel is really about.  Lamb takes us into the dark depths of Dominick's soul and then back out again.<br />This sprawling and moving tale is not as depressing as it sounds.  There is much here to call life-affirming, much joy to contrast with horror. Lamb's strength is his wisdom, however, and readers will emerge with a new sense of the world, exactly what a good novelist should accomplish.<br />I KNOW THIS MUCH IS TRUE is a hefty book, so don't expect to read it in a few sittings.  If you aren't the type of reader who likes to linger with a story, pass on this.  But for those who do, a true gem awaits you.	2001-05-30
1979847:US	52801489	R132H9S7KQ6LFC	0375412530	493062492	Back When We Were Grownups	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Awesome - Anne Tyler at her best!	Like many Anne Tyler characters before her, Rebecca Davitch finds herself in a mid-life crisis, bewildered at how she arrived at the center of a sprawling, demanding, boisterous extended family of stepchildren, multiple parents, and in-laws - a family she doesn't even consider her own. Widowed at a young age, Rebecca is indeed the family bedrock; she is the one who draws people out of their funks, who runs the family business, who knows exactly what to say to whom to soothe hurt feelings.  Without her, the Davitch family business of hosting parties would founder, and their relationships might splinter.  But as needed as she is, Rebecca can't help thinking she was meant for another life.  As the burden of bolstering her family takes its odd toll, she begins to dream about the path she almost took.  Instead of bemoaning her choices, Rebecca sets out to mold a new self, the one she thinks she was meant to be. Unlike many Tyler characters, however, Rebecca does not need to leave her home and occupation but instead hunkers down, finding ways within her grasp to better herself and her lot.<br />Anne Tyler fans know that the heart of her books is her characters - and this novel is no exception.  The plot feels somewhat familiar (midlife crisis; a romantic interest who is not who the protagonist wants him to be; a lurking other who is more than the protagonist understands; adult children who flail about in their lives, beleaguering the protagonist), but the characters are fresh and lively. Rebecca is stunningly realized, as are her childhood sweetheart Will, senile centenarian Poppy, and shy and awkward Peter.  The female supporting characters are less well-defined despite their unusual names:  Biddy, NoNo, Min Foo, Patch.  Still, what Tyler accomplishes here with so many characters is amazing with its range and depth.<br />The only wrong note Tyler sounds is in the first paragraph, styled like a fairy tale with its &quot;once upon a time&quot; beginning.  The tone is distant and formal, and never revisited. Even the point of view seems wrong. But don't let the first sentences mislead you; Tyler has created a warmly intimate story, with good humor and sharp insight and a likeable protagonist.  The prose, as exact as it is, is never demanding, making this an engrossing and relatively quick read.<br />I strongly recommend this book for those who enjoy character driven fiction.  Anne Tyler has put together a remarkable career, and this book should stand as one of her best.tant and formal, and never revisited. Even the point of view seems wrong. But don't let the first sentences mislead you; Tyler has created a warmly intimate story, with good humor and sharp insight and a likeable protagonist.  The prose, as exact as it is, is never demanding, making this an engrossing and relatively quick read.<br />I strongly recommend this book for those who enjoy character driven fiction.  Anne Tyler has put together a remarkable career, and this book should stand as one of her best.	2001-05-30
2013145:US	52801489	R5T3EX76O7HG	0684871270	971468860	The Blue Nowhere : A Novel	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A first rate thriller!	From the moment  I cracked this book, it became my downfall.  I couldn't leave it, even for a few minutes, without longing for its fast-paced, utterly addictive plot.  From the first paragraph to the last, this novel captured my imagination so fully that I wanted to skip meals and postpone sleep, much like the hackers portrayed in its pages.<br />The novel begins with the murder of a highly security conscious woman.  From the first few pages, the reader knows this is no ordinary murder, although the chapters to come will reveal exactly how extraordinary the killer is.  When the police suspect a skilled hacker who has taken his role-playing games into the real world, they enlist the aid of a convicted felon and &quot;wizard&quot; (an expert hacker) who is granted a temporary release from prison. At first glance, this is not a novel premise, but HOW the cracker accomplishes his murders elevates this story to the level of pure creepiness, reflecting the level of technology our society has acquired and our blind confidence in it.  The killer's intelligence and intimate knowledge of code make him a particularly elusive and dangerous suspect.<br />Deaver's plot twists and turns so many times, giving false clues in the best spirit of genre and then dropping new ones, so the reader makes dozens of guesses about the outcome but probably will come up short.  Although Deaver does make some clumsy moves (for example, dialogue often takes unnatural directions for the sake of exposition, and sometimes his facts are slightly off the mark) and can be repetitive, all in all his slips don't detract from this in-the-throat thriller.  Yes, the characters aren't fully realized and verge on being types, but hey, you don't read this kind of book for characterizations.  You read it to lose yourself in a suspenseful plot, and Deaver certainly delivers here. Deaver is such a good storyteller that he can make you both gullible and paranoid at the same time. Right now I can't even type this review without a hitch of doubt.<br />Next time your computer crashes, or your typing seems sluggish, or you meet someone in the street who looks vaguely familiar and who reminds you of who he is, you'll break out with little beads of sweat, wondering if the world really is how it appears.  This residual effect is Deaver's greatest triumph.view without a hitch of doubt.<br />Next time your computer crashes, or your typing seems sluggish, or you meet someone in the street who looks vaguely familiar and who reminds you of who he is, you'll break out with little beads of sweat, wondering if the world really is how it appears.  This residual effect is Deaver's greatest triumph.	2001-05-02
2020654:US	52801489	R3UZKHZ0YDGOBV	1565846273	117066640	Undercurrents: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The lure of the sea in beautiful prose	Darrieussecq's UNDERCURRENTS surpasses her first literary hit, PIG TALES, in both its vision and its execution.  While PIG TALES dripped with sensuality as its main character metamorphosed into a erotic pig, it lost some of its momentum in the middle of the book.  Not UNDERCURRENTS.  This novel strengthens with every page, and by the end can even be described as a literary pageturner.<br />The premise here is not surreal but ordinary:  a woman and her young daughter abruptly leave their husband/father to begin anew in a seaside town. The husband hires a private investigator to track them down, and the woman, unaware, leaves a crucial clue to her whereabouts.  The author treats this familiar plot with images of the sea, of what it means to be lured by it, of its power.  Even the private investigator settles into its rhythms, lulled by the promises of sea and sand.<br />Although a small book, readers will find it difficult to fly through it, mostly because of the multiple points of view (the mother, the child, the landlord, the husband, the grandmother, the private investigator), none of whom are named.  The &quot;she&quot;'s are particularly difficult to place, mostly because the women think and feel more than act, so the reader might have trouble determining by description to whom the &quot;she&quot; refers. Stick with it, though, because the rewards of reading this slim volume are well worth a little concentration and deciphering.<br />My biggest criticism of this novel is the absence of emotion.  All the characters refer to the young girl as &quot;the child&quot;, as though she were an object, so it makes it difficult to understand why the woman took her daughter with her in the first place and why the husband wants his daughter back with him. The characters have little, if any, emotional connection to one another.  The sole object of passion is the sea.  While that may have been Darrieussecq's goal, the emotional distance negates the plot, for why would a man track down his wife and child if he did not love them, or hate them, or have strong feelings one way or another?  And why would a woman pack up and leave unless she had strong feelings about her life as it was?  Things seem to just happen in this world, without the &quot;undercurrents&quot; of emotion.<br />Still, what the author has accomplished here is extraordinary. The prose is lyrical and mesmerizing, particularly as the novel finds its stride, and the concept, the sea as a Siren and as a unifying force, works well.  Fans of Darrieussecq's earlier works will find this novel even more satisfying.  It also makes a interesting companion book to another French novel, also published by The New Press, Jean Echenoz's I'M GONE.track down his wife and child if he did not love them, or hate them, or have strong feelings one way or another?  And why would a woman pack up and leave unless she had strong feelings about her life as it was?  Things seem to just happen in this world, without the &quot;undercurrents&quot; of emotion. <br />Still, what the author has accomplished here is extraordinary. The prose is lyrical and mesmerizing, particularly as the novel finds its stride, and the concept, the sea as a Siren and as a unifying force, works well.  Fans of Darrieussecq's earlier works will find this novel even more satisfying.  It also makes a interesting companion book to another French novel, also published by The New Press, Jean Echenoz's I'M GONE.	2001-04-26
2022468:US	52801489	R2VY77222MWDQO	0060199652	822422067	Prodigal Summer	Books	4	75	78	N	N	A novel of environmental issues	If I were to write a review having read only the first section of PRODIGAL SUMMER, I would have panned it.  In highly descriptive prose, Kingsolver starts out with a middle aged woman (and forest ranger) being tracked by a much younger and of course good-looking hunter, the result being a kind of Joyce Carol Oates meets THE BRIDGES OF MADISON COUNTY.  However, I'm happy to report the novel strengthens tremendously as it unfolds.<br />Kingsolver follows the lives of three characters during a particularly lush, hot summer in Appalachia, where American chestnuts and red wolves once flourished.  Deanna, the forest ranger, is caught between her lover and protecting the den of coyotes he wants to locate and destroy.  In the valley below, the recently widowed Lusa struggles with the ill will of her in-laws as she searches for ways to keep the family land her husband left her.  And in another section of farmland, elderly Garnett feuds with Nannie over Nannie's organic farming methods, which Garnett disdains and sees as a threat to his own reputation and methods.  Lusa's story is the most compelling, perhaps because Kingsolver reserves most of her opinions about the care of the environment for the other two tales, instead focusing on more personal matters.  Still, the other two are told well, with strong, flowing prose.  Kingsolver connects these three points-of-view mostly by the land they inhabit, but also by past histories.  Although the main characters live out their dramas in isolation from the others, their lives touch upon one another in subtle ways and understandings.<br />This novel is heavily thematic, even occasionally dogmatic, so if this kind of writing leaves you cold, don't waste your money.  However, if you're the type who likes a fictional journey coupled with political issues, this may be exactly what you're looking for.  People interested in environmental issues as well as those interested in Kingsolver's progress as a novelist should read this book.	2001-04-24
2051494:US	52801489	R2A9UHGDR4S5LF	1573660922	514836057	Girl Beside Him	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A masterful psychological novel	Cris Mazza has once again proven herself to be a master of the psychological novel.  Brian, a man with a troubled past, enters the Wyoming wilderness ostensibly to track cougars for a wildlife study.  He hires a young divorced woman, Leya, who unwittingly becomes a part of Brian's own dangerous experiment: to test his sexual deviancy.  Brian believes he might be a sexual predator, and, as he trains his rifle sight on idealistic Leya, he discovers the pith of who he really is.<br />But this novel is not only about plot. Mazza's language evokes a savage landscape where predators of all types lurk.  She takes us into Brian's psyche through creatively constructed flashbacks and into Leya's edited version of reality (which is often hilarious) through letters she sends home to her best friend.  Although Mazza is often named among an elite list of experimental writers, her testing of fictional boundaries is never obtuse.  GIRL BESIDE HIM is as accessible as any strong selling literary novel.<br />If you've never read Mazza, start here.  You'll wonder why you haven't picked up one of her books before this.	2001-03-29
2052248:US	52801489	R1D90DJMTL54GY	1565846281	711713891	I'm Gone: A Novel	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A smart, breezy novel	The first short chapter of Echenoz's novel struck me as self-conscious and awkward, perhaps a bad translation, and then . . . magic.  I could not put this book down.  No wonder this book was a bestseller in France.  Echenoz has crafted a finely tuned, fast paced novel of intrigue and personal crisis, a combination that will take you to the end of its 193 pages in no time at all.<br />Ferrer leaves his wife in the first sentence and embarks on a bizarre journey that takes him into the arms of women, across the tundra of the Arctic Circle, and through the streets of Paris.  I won't divulge more of the plot because half the fun of this book is discovering why Ferrer is where he is, and what will happen next.  The chapters zigzag through time, taking the reader backward and forward, sometimes sideways to another setting at the same point in time.<br />And the translation I thought might be substandard?  Wrong.  This novel vibrates with witty observations that could not possibly be effective with a less than first-rate translator.  The descriptions and insights, the way one builds to the next, are astounding.  Some are simply hilarious:  a pack of unruly sled dogs ignores shouts and whippings to devour a mastodon half frozen in the tundra; Ferrer's assistant Delahaye calls &quot;to mind those anonymous, grayish plants that grow in cities, between the exposed pavements of an abandoned warehouse yard, in the heart of a crack corrupting a ruined facade; a Paris that has &quot;still air rich in toxic gases.&quot;<br />I highly recommend this book both for serious readers and those who want to sample something a little different from the mass market paperbacks lining the walls of airport bookstores.	2001-03-29
2067763:US	52801489	R2K8EFB4ELDHVZ	0393049841	277194283	Book Business: Publishing: Past, Present, and Future	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not comprehensive, but wise	People looking for a comprehensive history and analysis of the publishing industry should look elsewhere; however, those intrigued by glimpses inside will enjoy BOOK BUSINESS.  Epstein's strength and weakness here are one:  this is a personal book.  He ruminates on his experience as an editor and how it reflects the business as a whole.  The anecdotes he collects are filtered through his impassioned eye, and his predictions are heavily based on what he has seen and known, not on the advice of other experts.<br />The book's relatively loose structure is reminiscent of an intimate conversation.  Is this bad?  It depends on what you want.  I found it refreshing and enjoyable, especially given the book's brevity. BOOK BUSINESS is a warm appraisal of a business close to the author's heart, and you won't find a more loving tribute to the art of book publishing.	2001-03-15
2078688:US	52801489	R2EGOHT0DYS6SG	074320395X	785819131	The Body Artist: A Novel	Books	4	0	2	N	N	An intriguing little novel	THE BODY ARTIST, with its spare prose and even sparer plot, is really more of a novella than a true novel, but what's in a label?  DeLillo has created an unusual story, a twisting of time and reality, of what we know of ourselves and the people we love. Lauren Hardke, the body artist of the title, barely knows her husband Rey before he kills himself shortly after the novel begins.  Lauren is left with nothing but thin memories and a rented house in which they spent most of their brief marriage. In the midst of her grief, an inarticulate, almost androgenous stranger mysteriously appears in the house, and through him Lauren begins to retrieve the daily life she shared with Rey.<br />DeLillo has an inimitable style that draws the reader into half-finished thoughts and sentences with an eloquence that stuns.  In 124 pages, he manages to connect love with art, inarticulateness with reality, fragments with life.  Although I read this slight book in a couple of hours, DeLillo has packed much into a few pages.  Casual readers might be disappointed with the lack of plot and resolution, but others will be delighted with DeLillo's testing of the boundaries of fiction.	2001-03-06
2081053:US	52801489	RIXUHOBB9M3CM	0399146431	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Tan's best novel yet!	In THE BONESETTER'S DAUGHTER, Amy Tan's literary talents shine even more brilliantly than in her other books, all of which (with perhaps the exception of her last) deserve serious reading.  Released on Tan's fiftieth birthday, her newest novel shows a maturity absent from her earlier work.  As a result, this book feels more complete and richer than her others - a real feat.<br />Ruth is a ghostwriter, an appropriate job considering that her mother believes she has a special ability to channel the spirit of long dead Precious Auntie.  Ruth lives with her boyfriend, Art, and his two daughters, and has strung together a hectic life of professional and personal responsibilities, losing herself in the needs of others.  When her elderly mother LuLing begins to show signs of dementia, Ruth is thrown into crisis, knowing that she is losing someone she has never truly known.  Because she can no longer trust her mother's answers to questions, she hires a translator to decode her mother's story, a manuscript written in elegant calligraphy which Ruth has never found time to decipher herself.<br />The translation of LuLing's story, a compelling narrative of a girl and her disfigured nanny, Precious Auntie, occupies the middle of the novel. Slowly, the reader is led through the intricate paths of LuLing's childhood and the truths she has hidden.  Knowing what we do about Ruth and her mother, certain details take on a complexity of meaning.  When Tan returns us to the present day in the closing chapters, we understand not only the difficult relationship between Ruth and her mother, but gain insights on life itself and the fragility of love.<br />This is truly an ambitious and successful novel, with only a few missteps on Tan's part. Her ability to tell a story and to engage the reader completely is as strong as ever.  If you are an Amy Tan fan, you can't afford to miss this one.	2001-03-05
2096142:US	52801489	R23P1L43FH9KX9	0316588741	885138585	Demonology	Books	4	14	19	N	N	A fine collection by a talented writer	Rick Moody is known as one of the most talented writers in the United States, and the strongest stories in this collection bear this out.  When he's on, Moody's stories have the momentum of a runaway train, hurtling toward an end that never seems certain until the final word comes to rest.  He can be absurdly funny and heartbreakingly insightful in the same paragraph, giving these stories a power they never would have realized at the hands of a lesser writer.  His description of ostriches had me laughing out loud (and smiling now, writing of it) while the final story, in the context of all that had come before, is one of the most loving, most wounded, most sincere stories I've read of late.<br />Moody is not perfect, of course.  Some of these stories are clearly better than others.  When he's at his best, Moody allows his narrator the unselfconscious telling of events; however, occasionally the narrator steps out of the story to announce context or philosophy or an awareness of the medium, rapidly deflating the stories, the illusion gone.  Perhaps Moody intended this effect (the removal of the chicken mask in the opening story), but it didn't work for me.<br />All in all, this is a fine collection from a fine writer.  Readers of short stories should not hesitate to make this book a part of their libraries.	2001-02-20
2103438:US	52801489	R2W04RHB92A9GR	1582970092	819784504	2001 Novel & Short Story Writer's Market (Novel & Short Story Writer's Market, 2001)	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Notes from a published novelist and short story writer	Where to begin?<br />While many professional writers avoid this guide because of its incomplete listings and sometimes (but not often) amateurish suggestions, I buy this book every year because it has the most comprehensive entries of any market guide.  I use it almost exclusively to market my short stories, although, if you read on, you'll see how useful the book publisher section can be.<br />For the novice writer, the sections on manuscript mechanics and submission procedures will probably be the most helpful, but once you've read and learned them, you'll be able to skip them in subsequent editions.<br />Despite what another reviewer claims, you CAN sell your novel without an agent; I know because I sold my first this way, using this guide as a starting point.  While many large publishers are reluctant to give an unagented writer a serious reading, this guide contains listings for many smaller presses, most of which are eager to receive high quality work from anyone, agented or not. These presses are a growing force in today's market because they publish quality fiction that might not have the commercial appeal many of the major houses want.<br />The articles and sidebars are often interesting, but not always helpful.  You really want to get at the meat here: the individual entries that contain addresses, names, needs, page limits, submission procedures, and writers each has published previously.  Pay attention!  Don't send a literary story to a mag that publishes horror.  If a publisher wants a query first, do it.  If they state they only accept unsolicited manuscript in the fall, don't submit in the spring.<br />Don't make the mistake of relying only on this guide. Research the markets beyond what you find here:  track down a small publisher's books at your bookstore, read (or better yet, subscribe) to the magazines you think most likely to accept your story, understand what editors expect.  Attend author readings and workshops to better understand the business.  You should be aware that many magazines and publishers don't submit listings; if you can't find a particular entry, you'll have to do the research on your own.<br />Yes, you need to buy a new edition of this book every year. Many listings change yearly due to employee turnover and finanical hardship.  If you are serious about pursuing a career in writing, you can't afford to use old or faulty information. This book won't help improve your writing - only practice and constant reading will do that - but, if used properly, can be an excellent tool to teach you about the fiction market.siness.  You should be aware that many magazines and publishers don't submit listings; if you can't find a particular entry, you'll have to do the research on your own.  <br />Yes, you need to buy a new edition of this book every year. Many listings change yearly due to employee turnover and finanical hardship.  If you are serious about pursuing a career in writing, you can't afford to use old or faulty information. This book won't help improve your writing - only practice and constant reading will do that - but, if used properly, can be an excellent tool to teach you about the fiction market.	2001-02-14
2103680:US	52801489	R283GNUN0J3GXR	0393050424	759689844	The Death of Vishnu: A Novel	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Superb character-driven fiction	Manil Suri's THE DEATH OF VISHNU is a bittersweet, often humorous, tale of a dying man's last hours and of the dramas that thrive around him. Vishnu is an alcoholic who lives on the landing of a small apartment building, much to the chagrin of the tenants, who had hoped for a better, more subservient type.  But Vishnu is Vishnu, and they are familiar with his presence, afraid of how he will act if they throw him out into the street.  They give him stale chapatis (flat breads) and ask him to pass love notes, but there's no way they are going to pay for an ambulance or his hospital bills now that it seems he has fallen into the coma of imminent death.<br />While Vishnu and his dying remembrances form the core of this book, the people around him, bustling with their daily routines, form the flesh.  They bicker, and they love, and they flail about selfishly.  Each individual story is a gem unto itself, allowing the reader to see inside to the true character.<br />Suri writes with a deftness that takes the reader from sadness to laughter in just a few strokes of his imagination.  While he sometimes approaches too familiar territory (at times the arguing wives seem too much like characters I've seen in other Indian novels), he has crafted a skilled tale of life and death that celebrates the absurdities and ironies of both.<br />This book has been hyped for months before its publication, so I suspect many people will have heard of it without understanding its thrust.  This is a pure literary novel driven by characters and not plot, with insight and detail rather than page-turning suspense.  We know from the title and first page that Vishnu is dying, so the conflict lies much deeper and with greater subtlety in the vagaries of human relationships.	2001-02-14
2121343:US	52801489	R2SL1BM5CDTL86	0893818062	716632470	Michael Nichols: Brutal Kinship	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Brutal indeed	This book's power lies in its pictures, not in the few words Nichols and Goodall provide.  While the authors' commentary is accurate and moving, nothing can compare to the shock of realizing that the irregularly shaped blotch above an anesthetized chimp's head is his detached scalp.  The reader is confronted with image after image of chimps, both in the wild and in captivity.  To the authors' credit, they reveal instances of violence among chimps, from hunting to warfare, suggesting a genetic legacy of aggression among both men and chimps.<br />Despite the shocking and disturbing material, this book also affirms the beauty of chimps.  The final picture of the series is of two orphaned juveniles living in an African sanctuary.  They are standing upright, embracing, with expressions reminding me of two schoolyard buddies as they decide to face the bullies together.<br />This is indeed a difficult book to page through.  After I had bought this book, I left it on my desk for several weeks before I had the courage to crack it, but, when I finally did, I was glad I had.  The brutality on display here contrasts sharply with the gentle love the authors have for chimps and their cause.  Sometimes we need to see the truth before we can accept it, and this book will go a long way to strengthening public support for protecting primates.	2001-01-30
2122605:US	52801489	R9WFD6MEIPTQO	1891620282	813110803	Animal Underworld	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A shocking expos&eacute; of the black market animal trade	I've read many books on animal rights as well as primate studies, but this book has perhaps shocked me the most with its tales of supposedly reputable zoos selling their &quot;surplus&quot; animals to dealers who then place them in game reserves where they are shot for sport.  Don't believe it?  Read this book; Green has clearly researched his subject matter with journalistic determination, uncovering truths that previously lay hidden behind a labyrinth of paperwork.  Green details the illegal removal of rare species from other countries and their treatment here in North America, from zoos to animal trainers to private owners.<br />You will never again see a baby giraffe in a zoo and be able to enjoy it.  You'll discover how a loophole in the Endangered Species Act allows Bengal tigers, lemurs, and other endangered species to be bought and sold without permits and paperwork.  You'll never be able to watch a chimpanzee perform on television without wondering about his off-stage treatment.<br />Alan Green loves animals - his awe and his concern are palpable.  When he describes the fate of particular animals, you will feel the injustice with all your heart.  If this doesn't convince you to stand up for the rights of captive animals, no other book will.	2001-01-29
2122673:US	52801489	R3BRO2PDGQVSUC	0395843669	695489370	Killer Woman Blues: Why Americans Can't Think Straight About Gender and Power	Books	2	13	20	N	N	DeMott can't think straight	I bought this book with the hope that Benjamin DeMott would provide an insightful, thought-provoking look at gender politics - and instead found myself disappointed before I had finished the introduction.  DeMott seems to have created a theory which he wants desperately to prove: that women have shed their femininity to become men largely because the media - arts, journalism, commercials, etc. - has innundated our culture with images of the &quot;killer woman&quot;, an aggressive, asexual figure. DeMott's supporting facts are weak and often a real stretch, so that when he occasionally gets things right, it seems an exception rather than the rule.  His generalizations go too far, and his understanding of contemporary women not far enough.  It struck me that the author was trying to fit the facts to a theory and not the other way around.  Much of this seems (whether fairly or not) to reflect the author's sense of being threatened by strong women.  Who else would find a female journalist's tough questions as a shedding of her womanhood?  Does he truly expect Diane Sawyer to ask Al Gore about the draperies hanging in his house instead of calling him to task for his exaggerations? The only interesting aspect of this book is the variety of sources upon which he draws, from television shows to Joyce Carol Oates to Susan Faludi.<br />I really hate to pan a book, but this one truly disappointed me.  I found it a waste of my time and intellect.	2001-01-29
2123014:US	52801489	R2HI2BMD4F321B	0452280680	184747831	The Parrot's Lament: And Other True Tales of Animal Intrigue, Intelligence, and Ingenuity	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An insightful, delightful book!	I loved this book from start to finish.  Eugene Linden's individual essays on the intelligence of different species are insightful glimpses into the sentience of animals.  From the extraordinary and intelligent efforts of a female gorilla to escape her solitary enclosure to rejoin her friends and family in an adjacent enclosure (she succeeded twice in overcoming electric fences and a moat by using non-conductive and sturdy logs and branches) to a parrot saying, upon seeing her owner's dinner of a Cornish game hen, &quot;Oh, no! Paco!&quot;, referring to her male companion kept in another cage, these stories delight with each new page.  Linden is careful not to attribute too much intelligence to these animals unless the evidence supports it.  He discusses possible ways these moments could be misinterpreted as well as why he believes they are proof that animals have more going on in their brains that some scientists are willing to admit.<br />Read this book if you are willing to expand your view of what constitutes animal intelligence. Even if you are not persuaded by Linden's arguments (which are indeed compelling), you will find much to consider here.  And you'll enjoy every word.	2001-01-29
2123347:US	52801489	R26HK2R4L9ZQOD	0618056769	935721329	In the Shadow of Man	Books	5	71	71	N	N	An extraordinary account - even decades later	IN THE SHADOW OF MAN, first published in 1971, remains one of the most extraordinary observations of chimpanzee behavior in the wild.  Goodall begins with the story of how she arrived in Africa and her first days there, but wisely switches the attention from herself to the endangered chimpanzees she studies.  She not only recognizes individuals but learns their distinctive personalities, describing in compelling detail the smallest of moments that illuminate who these great animals are. Unlike most scientists of the time, Goodall documents emotions and complex political behavior, the social hierarchy and parenting abilities, the aggression and the bonds formed between chimps that can only be described as friendships. In eloquent prose, Goodall tells the stories of these chimps - most notably that of Flo and her family - and will forever change the way you view chimpanzees.<br />The book contains several black and white photographs of the chimps, a real treat after getting to &quot;know&quot; these chimps in writing.<br />If you have any interest at all in primates or in animals generally, this is a must-have book.	2001-01-29
2127530:US	52801489	R3KTWF4YRR2AWB	0452282829	872593606	We Were the Mulvaneys (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not Oates's best, but still a good read	WE WERE THE MULVANEYS is not Joyce Carol Oates' best book (my favorite remains BECAUSE IT IS BITTER AND BECAUSE IT IS MY HEART), but readers will enjoy the in-depth look at a family living in familiar Oates territory, upstate New York.  The six Mulvaneys seem to have the perfect, sprawling life until young Marianne is raped by a popular high school boy. The strength and dignity of the Mulvaneys begins to unravel as each confronts the black spot cast upon the family in his own way.<br />As with all Oates's novels, this one's strength lies in the psychological subtleties of the characters.  Also typically, Oates approaches melodrama and injects violence, for which she has been criticized in the past, but she is such a skillful writer that these are but elements off which she plays her true concerns of what makes us human.  She deftly avoids the traps that lesser writers fall into with such subject matter.<br />Reminiscient of Anne Tyler novels and Antonia Nelson's LIVING TO TELL, this book is not a bad start for readers new to Joyce Carol Oates. Don't stop here, though.  This prolific author has proven herself through her many books to be one of America's best novelists.	2001-01-25
2130372:US	52801489	R2302IWROD6W96	1559705361	549637370	Spikes	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An intelligent, often hilarious, debut novel	Michael Griffith's SPIKES, although ostensibly about golf, is about so much more than a game.  Brian Schwan, a once promising golfer now scrapping for a win in the minor leagues of golf, poses on a whim as Bird Soulsby, his playing partner who has just shot a record-tying 59.  Brian knows he is washed up.  His wife Rosa has supported him all these years, but now she wants stability - a child and a full-time husband. Brian's own game withered his chances for a cut, so, when a local reporter mistakes him for Bird, he feels he has nothing to lose.  For once, he wants to be a winner.  The events that follow are both hilarious and bittersweet.<br />Told in first-person narrative, the voice here is impeccable, singing with wit and sharp-eyed insight, sometimes philosophical and others flip - but always Brian.  Bird Soulsby, a character who is so mystical that he has no right to be believable, comes off as pure flesh and blood, a man worthy of both a 59 and a shot at the PGA tour.  Brian's wife Rosa, although she appears only in flashbacks, carves a presence in the story, as does Brian's father as he hides in the shrubbery flanking the holes, not wanting to be seen but wanting to watch his son and his magnificent talent at work.<br />I have a confession:  I don't like golf, but I loved this book.  I'm sure golf-lovers will find even more to like than I did.  Ultimately, though, golf is only a metaphor here for the trials,  the decisions, the setbacks, the triumphs, and the responsibilities we face every day which define who we are.	2001-01-23
2131932:US	52801489	RTB5D5NI1A6AB	0618073272	894291394	Monkey Beach	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Quiet Gem of a Novel	Eden Robinson has written a quietly engrossing novel about life on the coast of British Columbia, in the small Haisla town of Kitamaat.  Lisa Marie (named after Elvis Presley's daughter) has a gift: she can see spirits, even if she does not understand them.  Most troubling, she is visited by a little man with red hair who seems to appear at night in her bedroom just before disaster strikes.  But this novel is not about Lisa and her visions of Sasquatchs and talking crows; MONKEY BEACH is about the tender bonds forged in life.  Her beloved brother Jimmy has disappeared at sea, and the family can only wait for news.  Lisa finds herself looking backwards for answers - in the deaths of her favorite uncle Mick and her grandmother, and in her own and her brother's lives. Through these extensive flashbacks, we begin to understand not only the significance of Jimmy's disappearance but also those he has left behind.<br />Although I found the ending vaguely disappointing, I enjoyed reading this skillful account of a Haisla family.  You can count Eden Robinson in with the more famous names of Louise Erdrich, David Treuer, Susan Powers, and Leslie Marmon Silko as an honest portrayer of First Nation life.  Her talents are rich and varied, so I expect to see many more books from her in the future.  Readers of literary fiction won't be disappointed.	2001-01-22
2138854:US	52801489	R1D69ZQ8S5EAC7	0385334931	237199137	Sometimes I Dream in Italian	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An honest, beautiful, compelling collection	Rita Ciresi's talent as a writer of short stories is no more evident than in this collection, where her stories sing with language and emotion and details so realistic that you'll believe every sentence.<br />SOMETIMES I DREAM IN ITALIAN is divided into two sections: Ragazza-Girl and Donna-Woman.  Within each section, we are treated to the awkward life of Angel, who struggles to reconcile her origins with her present self - and her imagined future self.  Her Italian immigrant parents embarrass her and her sister Lina with their Old World ways and names. The girls just want to become glamorous, with underwear they'll throw out after one wearing and diamonds dripping from their necks.  But their mother refuses to let them forget where they came from.  As the two girls grow into disappointed women, with dreams they've had to adjust, Angel says (of German grammar, but it applies to her life), &quot;I could not tell the who from the how and the where from the why.&quot;  While I was reading this collection, I often laughed out loud, but, just as often, I felt the sorrow between the words.<br />Although this book portrays an Italian-American family, you don't need to have interest in this American subculture to enjoy it.  Ciresi's detailed description of these lives is so beautifully rendered that the humanity shows through the smallest gesture.  This book is ultimately about family and its bonds, both liberating and restrictive.  And about the dreams we have for ourselves.	2001-01-16
2156785:US	52801489	R35NAFGB59CMM4	0743215052	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Another direction for Le Carr&eacute;	I've always loved John Le Carr&eacute;'s books for their in-depth plots and characterizations, for their issues, and for the careful way the stories unfold - qualities other commercial novels often lack.  THE CONSTANT GARDENER is no exception. While at times I felt the progress of the story was a little plodding (some of the interrogation scenes, while realistic, were tedious, and some small points were made too often), most of this novel drew me into its depths.<br />I won't summarize the plot here because so many reviewers before me have done so, but I will say Le Carr&eacute;'s taking on of the pharmaceutical giants is timely and bold.  He brings up issues in the course of his mystery/thriller plot that we should all consider, even if we disagree with his portrayal of these companies (the ThreeBees, the fictional company here, in particular) as ultimately evil.  The reader is led through the Third World in the form of Kenya and shown its lower class status in the eyes of industrialized nations.  Here, lives are expendable, in the interest of profit.  Not until a high-spirited and morally driven Englishwoman is murdered do the main characters in this book begin to see how deep the greed and lack of respect for life run.<br />I know many people in this forum have called this book a page-turner, but the plot unfurls too slowly and with too much complexity to earn that label from me. This isn't a criticism, however; I relished the slow reading of this book, hanging onto ideas and twists as I put it aside for the day.  Always, though, I looked forward to returning.<br />THE CONSTANT GARDENER is well-written, engaging, and thought-provoking, and deserves to be a hit with the reading public.	2001-01-02
2172470:US	52801489	R2RT4JODRQWHHO	0399146598	245379547	Louisa	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A fine debut novel	This engrossing, well-told tale of Nora, a Jewish Hungarian woman, and her gentile German daughter-in-law Louisa drew me in from the first sentence.  Nora arrives in Israel following World War II with widowed Louisa.  The other Jewish refugees resent Louisa and try to pressure Nora to send her back to Europe, but Nora can only reply, &quot;I owe her my life.&quot;  As for Louisa, she explains her strange desire to convert to Judaism and to become an Israelite as simple love for Nora.  But the reader knows that these sentiments, while enough for some people, does not completely explain why they are together in this foreign land. As the women's stories emerge, a uniting force becomes apparent:  Gabor, Nora's carefree, reckless, and handsome son.<br />Zelitch has done an admirable job of characterization, from gritty Nora, to refined but resourceful Louisa, to Nora's idealistic cousin Bela, to Nora's measurement-obsessed husband Janos.  This story unfolds at a leisurely pace that never bores; the narrative is full of details that give everything - and everyone - life. Although, as noted by other reviewers, the point-of-view shifts can be disconcerting at first, it was clear to this reader that Nora, not an omniscient narrator, was imagining and embellishing scenes she could never have known first hand in an effort to understand herself how she came to be in the new Jewish homeland with Louisa.<br />Readers who expect a page-turner should look elsewhere, but those who appreciate the richness of literary fiction should find much to admire.	2000-12-18
2182439:US	52801489	R3PTD2LETY4W4Q	0679463321	565707898	Killing Time	Books	3	43	51	N	N	Despite a strong beginning, this book ultimately fails	&quot;The world wants to be deceived&quot;: this is the premise of Caleb Carr's new novel, set in the near future, 2024.  By this time, the United States not only has had its first female president, but she has been assasinated.  Much of the world has suffered through a global economic collapse and a plague, and the seas are filled with sewage and no life. A band of educated idealists takes it upon themselves (arrogantly, I might add) to better the world through their deceptions, which are made easy by the &quot;modern&quot; internet and the high level of technology.  Of course, control is a slippery thing to contain.<br />After I survived the first short chapter that sounded annoyingly like the Myst/Riven series of computer games, I found myself reading furiously.  Then, strangely, Carr lost my interest.  His characters began pontificating and debating and justifying their actions so much that I could no longer stand it.  Characterizations?  Barely there.  Vivid scenes?  Sorry.  This book is not filled with bad writing, as another reviewer states, but rather bad fiction.  Carr seems to have forgotten how to show, not tell, and the result is heavy-handed and hardly believable fantasy fiction.<br />If you read numerous books during the year, this is an okay addition to your list, but don't bother if you read only occasionally.  You'll find far more rewarding books out there.	2000-12-09
2186283:US	52801489	RFH6ZQV3B264N	0679434550	370171962	Light Action in the Caribbean: Stories	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A true pleasure to read!	In this slim volume of short fiction, Barry Lopez quietly evokes landscapes: of the earth, of the mind, and of the heart.  Some stories, such as &quot;Stolen Horses,&quot; are simply told; others have a multi-layered richness.  In &quot;The Mappist&quot; (my personal favorite), a man solves a mystery of pseudonymity as he tracks down a skilled mapmaker who alternately worked for the U.S. Geological Survey and secretly hand-drew elaborate, knowing maps accompanied by passionate text.  Here, the reader glimpses the shape and color of the past, present, and future and what it means for two men who see them all in the lay of the land.  &quot;The Letters of Heaven&quot; confronts the humanity of saints, and how one man reconciles passion and God.  Not all stories are equally successful; in the title story the brutal conclusion seems oddly out of place, as though it belongs to another story.  Still, these stories are artfully told, in language that sometimes startles with its simple beauty.	2000-12-06
2197401:US	52801489	R3AT5UCOV5XBNC	1585670707	993626301	The Aerialist: A Novel (Sewanee Writers' Series)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Original, gritty, lively - a must read!	THE AERIALIST begins ordinarily enough - with two hapless guys, one who dodges responsibility and the other dying of cancer, taking a joy ride in a car that's obviously a murder scene - but once this novel gets going, it takes an extraordinary leap.  Gary joins a circus by whim and by accident, and later pulls his buddy Dave aboard.  What they experience there (particularly what Gary, our narrator, does) becomes something both larger and more gritty than a circus show.  Schmitt takes his readers through Gary's various jobs in the circus as well as describing a variety of others, giving me the impression, whether false or not, that Schmitt knows his material.  From bull prodder to aerialist, Gary becomes the circus with all its quirks and desperate moments, its glitz and its manure, the odd comraderie behind the scenes as well as the machinations that make the audience ooh and aah.  Gary and the supporting characters are well-drawn and compelling in their off-beat ways.<br />This debut is a literary gem.  Its originality, well-written prose, and the deftness with which the characters are drawn will assure Richard Schmitt of a solid following.	2000-11-27
2208973:US	52801489	R2CSKNIU8HVAJ2	155963779X	783017384	Human Natures: Genes, Cultures, and the Human Prospect	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Great comprehensive book on human nature!	I truly appreciated Paul Erlich's HUMAN NATURES, not only for the carefully studied exploration of humanity but also for his clarity. This intelligent, well-written discourse on human evolution gives a balanced view of our species, dispelling myths and explaining complexities, daring to explore controversial subjects.  The topics covered - from the origins of language to racial equality to ethics, to name only a few - are well researched and comprehensive. In language and tone, HUMAN NATURES is neither overly technical nor simplistic; it is wonderfully readable without sacrificing depth.<br />If you have pondered the different roles of genes and the environment, if you are intrigued by the origin and development of cultures, if you encountered too many glib comments about &quot;survival of the fittest&quot; and want to understand the true depth of the concept as it applies to humans, read this book.  You'll come away with so much more than you expected.	2000-11-16
2219752:US	52801489	R28KH93CVEV0FL	0716741202	763764883	The Barmaid's Brain: And Other Strange Tales from Science	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A fun look at the oddities of science	This collection of short essays on quirky scientific subjects is a fun read for the scientifically curious.  In plain language, Ingram presents various mysteries - how a barmaid can remember fifteen orders when most people can only remember a series of seven, how a colony of single-celled Volvoxes can develop specialized roles that allow only a select few to reproduce, why humans are bipedal and largely hairless - and proceeds to discuss scientific progress on these matters.  Ingram is not afraid of messy packages; he includes refutations and some strange sidenotes.  Several of the issues in this book have not been solved and may never be (and some are ridiculous, such as building a ladder to the moon, a subject which the author treats with good humor AND good science), but Ingram always gives his readers a solid understanding of the problem at hand.<br />All in all, this is an entertaining book.  Although working scientists might be disappointed by the lack of depth (the results of experiments are succintly summarized, for example), most people will be satisfied with the knowledge gained.  Like Stephen Jay Gould's popular science books, this should find a spot on many bookshelves.<br />(Because of its accessibility, I recommend it for high school students as well as adults.  Children as young as fourteen will find much to interest them.)	2000-11-06
2224080:US	52801489	R1G58DAGO76PFR	0380976757	474082012	In the Country of the Young	Books	5	61	61	N	N	I can't recommend this book highly enough!	This gorgeous, compelling, heartfelt story is everything a novel should be.  On Halloween Eve, Oisin, a middle-age recluse living on an island off the coast of Maine, finds a child ghost in his house who, at his touch, is given life.  Aisling had died as a child on the shores of the island, a victim of a shipwreck and a debilitating voyage to escape the potato famine in Ireland.  She awakens in Oisin his own longing for his long-dead twin sister Nieve.  As Aisling grows up at a frantic rate, the two must face their pasts and origins, who they were and are, as well as the special relationship between them.<br />If the plot sounds maudlin, the novel is anything but.  In Carey's capable hands, readers are guided through the intricacies of these two lives without sentimentality or melodrama.  The lyrical prose is infused with the ache of longing, and the story finds the perfect balance between the past and the present, with a fully realized nineteenth century Ireland contrasting with a contemporary Maine.<br />I can't recommend this book highly enough.  Of all the books I've read this year, this one has lingered longest in my heart.	2000-11-02
2226402:US	52801489	R2LLY07ZMGGRR7	0684853655	153129928	A Useful Woman : The Early Life of Jane Addams	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A well-written biography	It bothers me to hear A USEFUL WOMAN described as a &quot;feminist biography&quot; just because the subject bucked the gender norms of her Victorian times.  This book is about a social force and conscience, Jane Addams, whose intelligence, spirituality, generosity and, yes, unmarried status drove her to found Hull-House, a &quot;settlement&quot; in Chicago that served as both haven and learning center for the indigent, with a particular emphasis on aiding women and children.  Addams, a frail woman suffering from lifelong ailments including depression, rose above her infirmities to enact social change and awareness during a time when many of the poor were seen as morally bankrupt individuals and not the victims of a socially unjust system.<br />The book is well-written and accessible, and suffers only rarely from too much trivial detail.  Diliberto provides remarkable insight into this remarkable woman.  If you are at all interested in social causes and the people behind them, read this biography.  It is truly inspiring to read of how one woman changed the course of many lives.	2000-10-31
2230864:US	52801489	R2A542TFIZ1JBW	0446527165	543219405	Wish You Well	Books	4	51	61	N	N	Good commercial fiction	I'm still not quite sure what to make of Baldacci's WISH YOU WELL. Despite the hype, this is not a literary novel, although it does sometimes come close, but rather is commercial mainstream fiction aimed to sell well and not to challenge our preconceptions of the world. As long as you view it as just that - a commercial novel - you will be satisfied with this book.<br />In 1940, Jack Cardinal dies in a car accident that leaves his wife Amanda in a coma and his two children, Lou (short for Louisa) and Oz (Oscar), without a caretaker.  Lou acts on her parents' last conversation and suggests the surviving family members go to Virginia to live with great-grandmother, Louisa, whom none of them has met.  So off the three go:  Lou, Oz, and comatose Amanda.  There, Lou and Oz discover a hard but rewarding existence in the mountains where coal and poverty rule.  They come to love Eugene, also known as &quot;Hell No&quot;, Diamond who is a resourceful but uneducated orphan, and, most of all, Louisa herself, who has many lessons to teach the children.<br />Although the plot is somewhat predictable and Baldacci populates his Virgina mountains with a supporting cast of types (the greedy coal company men, the abusive man who tends to his mare's foaling despite his wife's difficult - and simultaneous, of course - labor, the black man who gets respect only from the good guys), Baldacci goes further with his main characters.  Pre-teen Lou is well imagined, even if she sometimes acts too old for her age.  Louisa, Lou's great-grandmother, has the most commanding presence of all the characters, with her mountain hardness tempered by a generous heart; her past and present all feel real, true to life.<br />You'll enjoy this book as long as you don't expect high literature.  Baldacci knows how to tell a story, and how to tell it well, leaving his readers with a firm sense of resolution.  You won't find page-turning suspense here, as you will with his other bestselling books, but you will discover a new side to this author. As a literary novel (which some people claim it is), I would give it three stars; as a mainstream commercial one, I'd give it five.discover a new side to this author. As a literary novel (which some people claim it is), I would give it three stars; as a mainstream commercial one, I'd give it five.	2000-10-27
2236021:US	52801489	R16OC0UJAU99I4	0028634527	332251189	Frommer's Japan: The Best of Tokyo and the Countryside	Books	4	33	35	N	N	A good, solid choice	Whenever I travel abroad, I usually buy at least two travel guides to pore over before I leave, but I travel with only one.  This is the one I took with me to Japan because it seemed the most practical and comprehensive for its size.  Although it doesn't have the depth and the off-beat information of the Lonely Planet series, the Frommer provides solid paragraphs about the attractions as well as reliable recommendations for dining and lodging (though I wish they provided longer lists.)  The walking tour sections are well-planned, and the cultural details are accurate. Because of the size of Tokyo, the guide divides the city into neighborhoods, a feature you'll welcome when you're there but which makes for difficult planning beforehand, as you have to page through the various areas to find all the hotels in your price range.<br />I have never found a single guidebook to meet all my needs, but, if you can only buy one, this would be a good choice.	2000-10-23
2236798:US	52801489	R1OBMKPAHXZPAG	1558703306	778278181	The Art of Doubles: Winning Tennis Strategies	Books	4	42	43	N	N	A good supplement to the real thing	To improve one's game, nothing beats getting out on the court and playing competitive doubles, but this book is a great off-court companion.  By breaking down various situations into easy to understand components, Blaskower enables players to understand why certain shots and positions are better than others.  She uses photographs and figures to illustrate her points, thus reinforcing her words with visual aids. Don't read this book only once - refer to it often as you improve your doubles strategy.<br />This book is not for beginners because it makes certain assumptions about your understanding of tennis. I recommend it for the advanced beginner and intermediate player (NTRP 2.5 to 3.5) to hone teamwork and shot selection.	2000-10-23
2239262:US	52801489	R1TF020IZ3S009	038550117X	133960389	Disobedience: A Novel	Books	5	17	20	N	N	I adored this book!	I confess I haven't read any of Jane Hamilton's other books, but DISODEDIENCE has convinced me that I must.  When I first received this novel, I cracked it, more or less idly, to see how it began.  Before I knew it, I had been reading for a full hour.  Hamilton's voice and her wise, often funny sensibilities carry this book, which otherwise could have been a trite piece of pop culture.  Henry Shaw discovers through reading his mother's email account that she has a lover, and his view of the world shifts to accomodate his mother's private life.  Although his reaction to the discovery is less than realistic (he takes it too quickly in stride), Henry's insights about love and family provide the layers that make this novel so remarkable.  I agree with the editorial reviews that Henry as narrator slightly mars this otherwise seamless tale; he doesn't seem to be in touch with many teenage emotions, he doesn't provide a solid life context for his adult voice, and sometimes he doesn't even seem male.  However, this flaw is, in my mind, inconsequential.<br />The best character by far is Henry's younger sister Elvira, an obsessed, gender-confused Civil War reenactor who upstages every other character.  Simply put, her creation is brilliant.  Henry's mother, Beth, is more ephemeral, as she should be, because she occupies the unique place in Henry's mind as mother first, then woman, a duality he must reconcile.  Henry's father Kevin is Elvira's companion and co-conspirator, who loves his daughter's odd fascination with history.  The dynamics among these family members form the heart of the story: who they are, who they aren't, and what they do or don't understand about each other.  Henry's discovery of his mother's secret life is only a catalyst.  The real story is the Shaws and their anachronistic, off-beat, and rebellious approach to life.<br />Read this book.  I can't say how this compares to other Hamilton works, but I adored it.	2000-10-20
2244654:US	52801489	RN1PYPVKYB8ZR	1882647246	565659741	Frisco Pigeon Mambo	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Hilarious and irreverent - a truly fun read!	FRISCO PIGEON MAMBO is a wild satirical romp through the streets and parks of San Francisco.  Unwillingly liberated by an activist group, a band of chain-smoking, sherry-drinking pigeons are unleashed upon an unsuspecting city.  These aren't ordinary pigeons.  They think they are human, only shorter than most, and they have panache.  Narrated by a sensible though deluded pigeon with the unlikely name of Robin, this story touches upon issues of stereotypes, identity, animal rights, and human vice while giving the reader laugh after laugh.  As our heroes meet up with a parakeet who believes he is a psychoanalyst, a seagull who rescues them with a halibut, and a peregrine falcon who falls in love with a statue, they hatch a plan to avoid the police and to find their way back to their Berkeley lab, where their daily supply of booze and smokes does not require mugging pedestrians.<br />This is the type of book college students slip into their backpacks when they go home for the weekend.  It's fun, maniacal, and irreverent.  As The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy was for an earlier generation, this book could be the one everyone reads out of class.  And if you're older than twenty-five, so what?  You'll get cool points for reading it - and a healthy dose of over-the-top humor.	2000-10-16
2251501:US	52801489	R1EP0WLFY0TZ28	1586480138	107988462	The First Time I Got Paid For It : Writers' Tales From The Hollywood Trenches	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Lots of laughs and a little wisdom	This book is a hoot!  The tone of this compilation of short essays by Hollywood writers ranges from thoughtful to irreverent to downright hilarious.  The title is somewhat of a misnomer since not all chapters tell about a writer's first sale.  Chuck Lorre tells of the first time he was fired from a writing job (for defending a remake of &quot;Beany and Cecil&quot; from the eventual creator of &quot;Ren and Stimpy.&quot;)  Carl Reiner skips telling about his extensive television and screenwriting but focuses instead on the sale of his first novel.  Delia Ephron covers the sale of several books as well as how she came to be a screenwriter.  Peter Casey, already a successful television writer, relates the miraculous meeting when he and his partners pitched the idea for &quot;Frasier.&quot;  While these essays provide glimpses into the Hollywood machinery and a few of its gears, facts and advice are scarce.  You won't learn how to navigate the &quot;trenches&quot; by reading this.  Instead, you'll be entertained by the irony, good humor, and storytelling presented by this large group of talented writers.  Because each piece lasts for only three or four pages, you can dip into this book for a few minutes at a time and read passages out of order.  Don't skip any, though, because you might miss a gem.	2000-10-10
2253245:US	52801489	R2N1ZL18JWXS4R	0375420673	794119090	The Bridegroom: Stories	Books	4	37	42	N	N	The strong stories make this worth the read	I was so excited to read Ha Jin's new collection of stories that I ordered it the day it was released, and began reading it at once.  By the time I finished the third story, I was disappointed with the visible machinations of each:  the forced turns of plot and the abrupt and seemingly tacked on endings.  Could it be Ha Jin's editor had failed him?  Fortunately, the answer is no, not entirely. While Ha Jin writes needlessly coy statements such as &quot;It was The Old Man and the Sea, by an American author, whose name has just escaped me&quot;, he makes up for these lapses with a spare and direct prose that has a &quot;grasshopper snapping its whitish wings in the air&quot; and an American boss with a &quot;stout red nose and his balding crown.&quot;  The later stories are the best, with &quot;The Bridegroom&quot;, &quot;After Cowboy Chicken Came to Town&quot;, and &quot;The Woman From New York&quot; being my favorites.  Ha Jin's magic -his ability to see inside people - illuminates these stories, even the weaker ones, from within; he seems to reserve his talent for the hearts of the stories and not their resolutions.  When he is at his best, the lack of resonance doesn't matter because getting to that final paragraph is a trip well worth taking.<br />I considered giving this book only three stars because of its unevenness, but to do so would be to neglect the truly fine stories inhabiting the same space.  Certainly, lovers of Ha Jin's writing should read this book, as should avid readers of short stories, but hold off reading this if you haven't yet read any of the author's other works.	2000-10-09
2262691:US	52801489	RPZN3ICO1LMAS	0393049736	462508118	Don't Tell Anyone: Fiction	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Another First Rate Book by Busch!	This collection of sixteen short stories and a novella is yet another first-rate effort by Frederick Busch.  His characters have the kind of humanity that make them seem deeply real, with lives so flawlessly imagined that you can be swept away by them. Even if the short stories weren't so good (and believe me, they are excellent), it would be worth reading this book just for the novella &quot;A Handbook for Spies.&quot;  The longer format allows Busch to delve more thoroughly into his subject matter and characters, thus expanding the protagonist Willie's life in a way not possible in a short story.  We are treated to Willie's loves, his fears, his peculiar relationship with his Holocaust survivor parents and their peculiar relationship, and what it all means to a man who escaped service in the Vietnam War.<br />Busch writes the kind of dialogue you might wish you encountered in your own conversations:  sharp, witty, wise, intriguing.  His language is impeccable, with descriptions so memorable I sometimes stopped reading in admiration, to savor the words.  Busch can be as funny as he can be melancholy, and every last story in this book has tremendous emotional range.	2000-10-02
2270220:US	52801489	R1BE846I07576S	0399146679	367711818	An Empire of Women	Books	4	16	19	N	N	An Elegant Debut	AN EMPIRE OF WOMEN is an elegant and poignant novel about three generations of women, none of whom understands the others.  Celine Arneaux, a renowned photographer of Chinese and French ancestry, is the would-be matriarch, although she feels little connection to her daughter Sumin, only slightly more to her granddaughter Cam.  The three women agree to meet at a cabin in Virginia for the benefit of Apertures magazine, which wants to celebrate the famous photos Celine took of Cam at the site.  Cam brings along Alice, the six year old daughter of a Chinese friend, who evokes emotions and desires in the adult women as they struggle to claim her as their own.<br />Shepard writes with simple precision, with exact and memorable details that give this book life; however, the emotional exploration - the stripping away of the outer layers of each character - gives AN EMPIRE OF WOMEN its depth. The mixed racial backgrounds of the women (Cam, for example, has Chinese, French, and Japanese blood) serves as a metaphor for their complicated and often contradictory lives.  The closer the women get to the truth about themselves, the more powerful this book becomes. Issues about Communist China and the politics of art further define this story.<br />Although the natural audience for this novel is women, anyone with an interest in human relations, the politics of art, and good literature should find this a rewarding read.	2000-09-26
2286557:US	52801489	R38T4V071KW7NQ	0679463046	79158641	Ghostwritten: A Novel	Books	5	47	61	N	N	Brilliant!	GHOSTWRITTEN is a startling original debut novel set in places as  disparate as Okinawa, Mongolia, and London, each locale and its attendant  narrator adding another story to Mitchell's tapestry.  This is new  millennium globalism, where people are connected by the most tenuous  threads as they inhabit the same world run by coincidence and fate.  You'll  find that many reviewers will be unable to summarize the plot of this book;  instead, they will describe the characters.  That's because the plot IS the  characters - who they are and what they represent.<br />The rhythms of  the prose are often staccato and simple, but there is a beauty to it, a  sure truth to the words. I entered this fiction and emerged blinking in  what seemed like sudden light.  Sometimes Mitchell's inventiveness was  simply too much to take in, and it struck me as forced, originality for  originality's sake, but, all in all, he succeeds admirably.<br />I suspect  David Mitchell's GHOSTWRITTEN will be one of those books people either love  or hate; you'll react to it on a visceral, not an intellectual, level.  Certainly people who like only traditionally told tales will be  disappointed, as will lovers of naturalism and realism.  One thing is  clear:  this book will be discussed by serious readers.  You should read it  so you can throw yourself into the fray.	2000-09-12
2297697:US	52801489	RS84XKM0Z2KTV	1573221643	574664742	Innocence	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Imaginative - But Not Enough	When Jane Mendelsohn's newest novel begins, its narrator Beckett, a teenage girl, faces major life changes:  her mother has recently died, her  father has uprooted them to live in a new apartment, and she is about to  get her period for the first time.  When three girls she has met at her new  school turn up dead in an alley, apparent suicides, she begins to lose her  innocence, red drop by drop.  At first Beckett seems a normal enough girl  but as the novel progresses, she begins to hallucinate, seeing blood and  bats everywhere.  The novel takes a desperate turn as paranoia (or is it  legitimate fear?  and does it matter?) drives Beckett to suspect a  conspiracy among women she knows of wanting to kill her.<br />I wanted to be  able to rave about this novel, but can't.  Although Mendelsohn is a  talented writer, I found this book, particularly the first half,  self-conscious and flat, overly concerned with effect while neglecting the  kind of depth that could have made this book unforgettable.  To  Mendelsohn's credit, she did not try to recreate her first novel, I WAS  AMELIA EARHART, in different form and instead wrote a stylistically similar  but radically different tale.<br />Jane Mendelsohn watchers should read this  book, if for no other reason than to see where this imaginative author is  headed.	2000-09-03
2309288:US	52801489	R2THDGRAHGPAAE	0374105014	588283644	An Obedient Father	Books	5	21	24	N	N	A Novel About Corruption, Moral and Political	Don't enter into Akhil Sharma's AN OBEDIENT FATHER expecting the romantic exoticism of many of today's Indian writers.  His India is not mystical or  lush or dream-like but instead peels away exterior layers to show what lies  beneath.  This is a story of corruption, both moral and political.  Ram  Karan is a self-pitying hedonist, and he knows it, even hates himself for  it.  Others think even less of him.  When his daughter confronts him with  their shared secret he hopes she had forgotten, two days after the  assassination of Rajiv Ghandi, both Karan and India face an uncertain  future.<br />To Sharma's credit, he allows the reader deep enough into  Karan's psyche to elevate him from despicable to pathetic, and yes, you do  start to feel for this man, however guiltily.  Sharma's greatest strength  here is his characterizations, from Karan to Anita to the corrupt  bureaucrats who work with Karan to his extended family.<br />If you are  just now sampling the range of Indian fiction available in the United  States, this is a good place to start.  If you are familiar with the wider  range of voices, Akhil Sharma's adds a nice balance to the rest, perhaps  more American than most but still in his heart Indian.	2000-08-24
2321823:US	52801489	R24GX9LJFFCV6J	015100529X	10521068	A Hole in the Earth	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Absorbing, complex, so very wise - I couldn't stop!	Wow.<br />When I heard Robert Bausch had written his best book to date, I  never expected this absorbing, complex, so very wise novel to swallow me  whole.  Once I started, I simply could not put it down; I read late into  the night, knowing I had to get up early the next morning and not caring at  all.<br />The narrator, Henry Porter, is a mess:  a compulsive gambler,  non-committal lover, absent father.  But he has a big, confused heart and  that's what makes him lovable.  He wants to do the right thing, and can't.  His estranged daughter, now eighteen, shows up at his door with her male  friend just as Henry learns his girlfriend is pregnant.  Henry has so much  baggage from his childhood and brief stint as a husband that he can't cope  with these developments. That Bausch makes his readers not only care about  such a man but root for his happiness demonstrates Bausch's talent as a  novelist.  The plot, far more complicated than I can describe here, has  ends flying everywhere that touch and spark whenever they cross,  culminating in one of the most electrifyingly emotional conclusions I've  read all year.<br />You have to read this book.  It's one people will be  talking about for months.	2000-08-15
2349408:US	52801489	R30285F2HUFFX5	0446524484	546935940	A Little Love	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Warm, Entertaining Story of Four Latina Friends	A LITTLE LOVE, C. C. Medina's debut novel is an entertaining and easy read, the story of four Latina friends as they navigate love in Miami. Isabel is a divorced mother of two, and has sworn off men (they're all big,  annoying boys to her.)  Julia is an accomplished professor and feminist who  doesn't understand why she can't accept her long-time lover's marriage  proposal.  Curvy, passionate Mercy has never married and never given up on  her search for the perfect mate, even after a history of always choosing  the wrong type.  And artistic Lucinda, living the pampered life of the  Miami social pages, discovers that her seventeen year marriage may have  been less than the perfect union she had thought.<br />Although Medina  stumbles a few times with her details (you can't order a Big Mac with  cheese, for example, because a Big Mac always has cheese), she has found a  sure, likable voice. She liberally sprinkles Spanish words and phrases  among the English, giving this book its unique tone and character. This is  the kind of reading you want to take on vacation with you - to the beach,  on the airplane, alongside the pool while the kids try to dunk one another.  I couldn't help comparing Medina to Terry McMillan (Waiting to Exhale, How  Stella Got Her Groove Back); she celebrates sisterhood and the pursuit of  honest, decent men.  Like McMillan, Medina is not likely to alienate  readers of other cultures but rather she invites them into her world with  warmth.	2000-07-28
2378198:US	52801489	R1XAS994L7JRRO	1565122763	887113284	In the Name of Salome	Books	5	28	29	N	N	A deeply imaginative novel about the poet Salome Urena	In recent years, literary authors and publishing houses have published  dozens of fictionalized accounts of historical figures, with Joyce Carol  Oates' BLONDE (Marilyn Monroe) and Russell Banks' CLOUDSPLITTER (John  Brown) being prime examples of this genre.  Because I'm tiring of such  fiction, I never would have bought IN THE NAME OF SALOME if I had known  Alvarez had joined this literary trend - and I would have missed out on a  fabulous book as a result.  Yes, this may not be Alvarez's best work, but  the literary standards and emotional impact are still higher than most  novels published today. This deeply imaginative portrait of the Dominican  poet Salome Urena and her daughter Camila captures the people behind the  revolutions in the Dominican Republic and Cuba without idealizing them,  without relegating them to mouths spouting political dogma. As Salome says  to her young husband when he chides her for writing a non-revolutionary  poem, &quot;I am a woman as well as a poet.&quot; This is exactly what  Alvarez accomplishes:  an adept melding of the public and private sides of  her characters to give her book real heart.<br />This novel spans over a  hundred years, from the 1850's (the beginning of Salome's story) to the  1970's (the end of Camila's story.) Because the two stories are  interspersed and are not told chronologically, the time and place can  sometimes be confusing despite the chapter headings meant to give the  reader his bearings.  Don't let this frustrate you; the story is well worth  this flaw.  My advice is just to give yourself up to Alvarez's skill and  let her take you where she wants.<br />I think most of Alvarez's fans will not  be disappointed, and I believe she will gain a few more with this novel,  perhaps enticing these newcomers to read her earlier work.	2000-07-10
2429410:US	52801489	RGEG54OK8RG0M	0684839334	423092038	Living To Tell: A Novel	Books	5	33	36	N	N	You'll Be a Nelson Fan After Reading This Book!	Long regarded in literary circles as one of America's finest writers, Antonya Nelson has yet to find a wider audience.  I suspect LIVING TO TELL will change all this.  Winston Mabie returns to his rambling childhood home  in Wichita, Kansas after serving five years in prison for the drunk driving  accident that killed his grandmother.  Always charming and handsome,  Winston has become the Mabie family's shame, the one they don't know what  to do with, the &quot;alcoholic&quot; of the family even as his siblings,  parents, and uncle seek their solace and comraderie through booze.  As the  Mabies adjust to Winston's return and the changes he represents, they begin  to question the direction of their own lives.  Nelson has populated her  novel with quirky, complex, and decidedly real characters who struggle with  their separate, often private dramas and who always return to the shifting  terrain of those who have known them the longest.  Her prose is clear and  detailed, never sentimental or heavy-handed, and it carries this story  forward with a surety that is remarkable.  Especially if you enjoy Anne  Tyler and Alice Hoffman (without the magic realism), you'll love this book.	2000-06-12
2441031:US	52801489	R3P7KQGD6X90IK	0345431901	69018405	The Finishing School (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	32	32	N	N	One of Godwin's best!	When this book was first released in the 1980's, I was an avid fan of Godwin's and couldn't wait to buy it.  I devoured it in two sittings, loving every minute with teenage Justin and the wiser, more enigmatic  Ursula.  I'm pleased to see the story hasn't become dated, and that it's  every bit as enjoyable now that I'm closer in age to Ursula than to Justin.  Although this is on the surface a coming-of-age story, it also explores  the necessity and dangers of mentorship, of friendship, of implicit trust.  The characters are heartfelt and true, and Justin, with all her emotional  needs and confusion, is one of the best female teenage characters in  American literature.<br />This book remains one of Godwin's best.  If you  haven't read Godwin before, start here.	2000-06-06
2449793:US	52801489	R2PZC8W756UELN	0375705198	314955975	Amy and Isabelle: A novel	Books	5	4	7	N	N	More Than a Mother/Daughter Story!	When I first started reading AMY AND ISABELLE, I feared it would turn out to be another CROOKED LITTLE HEART, with its insular, almost claustrophobic psychology, but I was dead-wrong.  Strout's novel explores the difficulties  and dangers a young woman and her mother face as both come of age, one  literally and the other figuratively, during a stifling hot summer in New  England.  Teenage Amy's secret life has been discovered, and the revelation  crushes her shy, prim mother Isabelle, who has a few secrets of her own.  Despite the turmoil in the Goodrow household, they aren't the only ones  with problems; the entire town is on edge as the stench from the stagnant  river overcomes good sense and pushes people to their limits. Even lovable  Fat Bev can't get her system moving.  Stout has an amazing gift of making  the ordinary seem extraordinary, of exposing the rawness buried inside her  characters without stripping them of dignity, of gently leading her readers  through the terrors of every day life.  This novel feels real from start to  finish.	2000-06-01
2451989:US	52801489	RUCC832LAGB74	0811814343	525358652	Primates: The Amazing World of Lemurs, Monkeys, and Apes	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Gorgeous photos and good, solid info on primates	Primarily a photography book, PRIMATES offers an intimate and often humorous (but not condescendingly so) look into wild primate life.  Even the brief text, by Barbara Sleeper, is first-rate, revealing details about  each species not often encountered by lay people.  This is not meant to be  a comprehensive text, however, but a celebration of some of our closest  relatives. The photography is at times stunning, capturing intelligence,  emotion, innovation, and above all personality.  If you love primates, or  are even vaguely attracted to their study, this is a must-have book.	2000-05-30
2459434:US	52801489	R2FTGAG95IY2B0	0679775439	730850906	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle: A Novel	Books	5	42	52	N	N	Surreal Journey into Modern Japan	The disappearance of a cat signifies the end of unemployed Toru Okada's easily explainable life.  His wife leaves him, and soon he finds himself in the company of some very strange and psychic women and a disaffected  teenager.  Inexplicable happenings at first baffle Okada, but soon he takes  them all in stride for lack of anything else else to do.  Murakami has  created a complex dream world of a global Japan, where the past horrors of  the war mingle with coffee from Dunkin Donuts. This book is reminded me  somewhat of Heller's Catch-22; it fuses grim reality with the ridiculous  and the impossible, imparting its wisdom through laughter and an  unbelieving shake of the head. Even though Murakami's literary gymnastics  stumble near the end, the show is well worth a less than perfect landing.	2000-05-26
2459526:US	52801489	RB1MTLMYF1LZ	0802116493	618305986	At the Full and Change of the Moon: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Poetic Account of Six Generations	A poetic account of six generations born from an act of rebellion and set free into the world, this novel begins on Trinidad as Marie Ursule plots a mass suicide of fellow slaves and ensures the escape of her &quot;vanity  and joy,&quot; little Bola.  Marie Ursule's descendants, born of Bola and  her lust for different men, dash off to disparate lives, which Brand  describes in separate, always lyrical, chapters.  Although Brand's  repetitive use of certain phrases can wear thin, she shows a brilliant  command of the emotional side of language. I would not recommend this book  to casual readers because its emphasis on language and theme, and not plot,  might disappoint them; however, this novel has much to offer serious and  attentive readers.	2000-05-26
2466732:US	52801489	R3KQOZ3YSTTUHJ	1878448870	701219721	Hummingbird House	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A Compelling Novel About Political Activists	A finalist for the National Book Award, this novel tells the story of once-idealistic Kate and her American friends who struggle against political and economic oppression during the 1980's. Kate is exhausted from  her years of midwifery and nursing in Nicaragua and Guatemala, of the  deaths she has known, of the love she has lost, and wants to return to the  United States.  She travels to Antigua, which she hopes will ease the  transition to the safety and opulence of the U.S., but finds herself  caught, unwilling to stay, unable to return to a world she had left. She  and her friends try to forge small platforms of stability in love and  friendship, but the overbearing presence of their political causes and the  danger they face threaten to destroy what small pleasures they have.<br />I  would give this book five stars if not for the slightly flat and  predictable conclusion, but it was well worth the read. This novel is for  all those who have engaged in or who support socio-political causes as well  as for those who enjoy high quality literary fiction.	2000-05-22
2466806:US	52801489	R1487D07RNPU7U	0670886408	680707728	Syrup	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Clever Send-Up of American Marketing	Australian Max Barry has captured the absurdity of American corporate marketing in this humorous novel about Scat, a young man desperate to cash in one of his million dollar ideas. When his concept for an ultra-cool cola  called Fukk leaves Scat homeless and penniless, the fun begins.  Told in  short punchy scenes reminiscent of 30-second television spots, this novel  has a lively, page turning pace.  If you enjoy cultural satire and  fast-paced, tongue-in-cheek humor, this book is for you.	2000-05-22
2630532:US	52801489	R10V748WJANFL4	1573225312	421221260	Native Speaker	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A rare find	Chang-Rae Lee supplies so many levels to this tale of political espionage that the reader cannot help but emerge wiser. Lee is an engaging storyteller, hooking the reader with the first line and never relinquishing  his grip, giving his readers a suspenseful plot, compelling characters,  precise language, and an exploration of issues facing America today.  The  metaphor of the second-generation American as spy is simply brilliant.<br />This book is a rare find:  a page-turner with real substance.	2000-02-17
2634034:US	52801489	R2X73376XZ57CG	0805738843	880374912	The Animal Rights Movement in America: From Compassion to Respect (Social Movements Past and Present Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good survey of the animal rights movement	This book is a must-read for those who wish to understand the origins and evolution of the animals rights movement. While the authors are definitely biased toward animal rights, they remain objective when discussing the  differences among the organizations and their leaders, giving the reader an  easy understanding of the many facets of the movement.  The only thing  missing here is the range of voices and the passion of the individuals, as  the authors rely heavily on landmark philosophical books and not at all on  interviews.	2000-02-15
2799228:US	52801489	R2JPPKA97W0JPA	0393319369	475769761	Oyster: A Novel	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A mesmerizing book	OYSTER is a mesmerizing book about secrecy, complicity, and the power of personality.  Outer Maroo isn't on any official Australian map; it is an insular world where foreigners arrive but never leave.  The people in this  small, rain-starved town all know a secret of which they can't speak, even  among themselves.  When Susannah Rover, a teacher brought in from Brisbane,  dares to speak the unimaginable, she sets off a series of events leading to  the ultimate disaster.  Janette Turner Hospital has an unfailing ear for  language as she paints the outback with opal veins, mirages, roughnecks,  and the followers of Oyster himself, a guru who arrives soaked in blood and  carrying three priceless opals. While this book is not a page-turner,  Hospital's descriptive language and poetic eye create an Outer Maroo that  feels both mythical and real.  This book lingered in my thoughts long after  I finished reading.	1999-08-31
2944223:US	52801489	R17U62YMJVKZCG	1566890195	996952341	Exposed	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Literary Descent into Near-Madness	This story of an unraveling photographer as she joins a mysterious community theater troupe drew me in with its graceful intensity.  Although Connie wants desperately to leave her camera (and hence her past) locked in  its vault, she is a photographer to the core.  Her efforts to substitute  that art for other arts - first playing the cello and later acting - only  get her into trouble as she finds herself privy to the secrets of the  troupe. When she finally twists her camera lens back in place, she finds  herself caught in a murkiness that only her camera can see, although never  clearly enough.  This literary descent into near madness and pill-confused  reality while still keeping sight of the real world is a balancing act well  achieved.	1998-12-30
2976836:US	52801489	RNU1BVDYY8QLF	0385426100	109216147	The Art Fair	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A small gem	The Art Fair by David Lipsky is a small gem about mother/son devotion.  Lipsky's narrator Richard is the son of a one-time art sensation, Joan  Freely, who, because of a nasty divorce, can no longer paint her formally  bright style.  Young Richard eventually comes to live with her and takes it  upon himself to help re-establish his dethroned mother in the socially  complicated art world.  In his mother's world of betrayal and jealousy,  Richard tries to remain steadfastly loyal to her and her dreams, often at  the expense of his personal life.  Although Lipsky could have used a more  visual style to complement the subject matter, this book is full of  wonderful, honest moments.  Readers interested in the art world, the  effects of divorce on children, and the relationships between mothers and  sons should read this novel.  It's a shame this book now seems to be  out-of-print.	1998-10-19
2984006:US	52801489	R2C7XBWJ0ASFFT	0684837242	692572239	Tumbling	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An evocative novel of south Philadelphia	An evocative novel set in Philadelphia in the '40s and '50s, Tumbling is  one of those rare books that conjures up an entire world.  Noon and Herbie  begin this story as a young couple held together by love but kept apart by  a horrible secret in Noon's past.  Each strikes out beyond their marriage  for satisfaction:  Herbie with a sultry night club singer and Noon with her  church and the two abandoned girls she raises.  The past in  this novel is  never far from the present and the future, holding these brilliantly drawn  characters together.  The author's only misstep is  dwelling a bit too long  on the particulars of Liz's bizarre behavior.  I wish people would stop  saying McKinney-Whetstone has one of the finest African-American voices in  contemporary literature.  She is one of the finest voices in contemporary  literature, period.	1998-10-01
2988660:US	52801489	R23KMACWQHVO3C	0670879045	18229976	My Year of Meats: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Bold and humorous - a great read	My Year of Meats is a bold and humorous novel that challenges cultural  stereotypes and contemporary values.  American Jane Tanaki-Little, who is  &quot;racially half&quot;, directs a Japanese television show called My  American Wife! which is sponsored by American beef exporters.  Each show is  supposed to depict a &quot;wholesome&quot;, attractive, traditional  American wife cooking her favorite meat recipe, but Jane, who has her own  ideas about what constitutes an American woman and a healthy diet,  sabotages the directive.  Meanwhile, Akiko Ueno, the miserable wife of  BEEF-EX's Japanese representative, is forced by her husband to watch and  rate the shows in ten categories including Authenticity, Wholesomeness, and  Deliciousness of Meat.  Although Ozeki gets a little too heavy-handed when  she delves into the practices of the meat industry and her characters  aren't always concretely drawn, this is an exceptional debut. Ozeki's memos  and faxes brilliantly establish the relationships between the characters,  as well as providing a hilarious exchange.  This is truly a comic novel  with - excuse the pun - a lot of meat to it.	1998-09-17
2989458:US	52801489	R2HOPUE510NEHK	0684833204	434448992	Fall on Your Knees	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A magnetic and gorgeously complex novel	Fall on Your Knees is magnetic and gorgeously complex novel.  The Pipers  of Cape Breton Island are haunted by secrets, forgotten memories, and  sexual desires that carry them along like the waters of the creek next to  their house.  This is  the kind of book you hold to your chest for a few  moments before you put it down. Although Kathleen's diary near the end of  the book weakens the magic of the rest, this is certainly a book worth  reading.	1998-09-16
3052906:US	52801489	R1TA9NGTM4SVL3	0375400117	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Tour de Force of Narrative Voice and Detail	Arthur Golden's Memoir of a Geisha is a tour de force of narrative voice, cultural detail, and style. The author's painstaking research shows itself only in the believability of his story and never slows the pace of this novel which, at its basest level, could be called a historical romance.  But there is so much more contained within these pages than a genre novel.  Readers will find a richly described life with layers of history, emotion, and a coming-of-age story that lasts a lifetime.  Although the final chapter seems tacked and the extra details revealed there are coyly supplied despite the previous forthrightness of Satuyi, Golden can be forgiven these last pages after having delivered his treasure wrapped in silk.	1998-02-24
