3932:US	52830980	R3S2KK5IGU8D3F	0060765127	297121287	The Typhoon Lover	Books	5	23	23	N	N	wonderfully riveting in spite of my niggles	Is it possible to enjoy a mystery novel immensely and yet be sadly disappointed at the series-heroine's antics? This was the conundrum I came face to face with while reading Sujata Massey's latest Rei Shimura mystery novel, \\"The Typhoon Lover,\\" and discovered, rather to my surprise, that the answer was a resounding \\"yes.\\"    When US intelligence suspect that Takeo Kayama, head of the Kayama School of Ikebana and Rei Shimura's former lover, may have bought an antique Mesopotamian ewer that was stolen during the latest gulf war, they decide to recruit Rei in order to discover how Takeo had acquired the piece. As a friend and former lover, the feeling is that Rei should be able to get the information without setting off too many alarm bells. And while Rei is not at all sure if she's cut out for this kind of cloak and dagger stuff, or even if she could persuade Takeo in take her into his confidence (much less talk to her since they did have a rather messy breakup), the lure of being able to return to Japan (Rei was deported from Japan in \\"Samurai's Daughter), proves too much for her. And in no time at all, Rei finds herself back in her beloved Japan, and trying to reconnect with a newly engaged Takeo, who would much rather keep Rei at arm's length. And while Rei was prepared for the fact that it would take a lot of hard work in order to reestablish their friendship, what she was not prepared for, she discovers to her horror, was the resurgence of some of her old feelings for Takeo, or how her flashly blundering about would lead to tragedy...    There were many things I liked about \\"The Typhoon Lover\\" -- like the fact that it took place mostly in Japan, and that it was a very well written, suspenseful, absorbing and totally riveting novel. However certain things did niggle at me: for example, I really had to suspend my disbelief in order to buy the notion that the US secret service's best bet to figuring out if Takeo was involved in buying stolen antiques was to bring Rei into the investigation. Surely must have been a better plan out there somewhere? I like the character, Rei Shimura, but her method of operation has always been to stumble about, rather flashily, until she arrives at the truth. Subtlety and discretion have never really been her strong points. And this was the woman that US intelligence thought perfect for this particular job? I also found that I was not really enjoying this new direction that the author was taking Rei in -- esp in regards to her relationship with Hugh (her on-and-off again boyfriend), after having gone through so much with Hugh, I was disappointed that Rei felt stifled by her relationship with him, and how she handled things here. But in spite of my growing frustration with Rei, I found that I simply had to read on in order to discover what would happen next. And this, in my opinion, was the real testament to Sujata Massey's brilliant writing skills -- that she had me absolutely riveted in spite of myself. Also brilliantly done, was how the authored portrayed the tense atmosphere as everyone was hunkering down to deal with the typhoon -- I really felt the cold, wet danger of it all. And as always, I enjoyed the author's portrayals of the current trends in Japan; and in this instance, Rei's feelings of confusion at realising that she may no longer fit in with the youth culture.     In all, \\"The Typhoon Lover\\" was a very enjoyable read. In spite of my complaints, at the heart of things, this series has not changed. Rei is still the flawed but stalwart character, who still passionately throws herself into whatever task she's doing. She may stumble about with two left feet, angering people and setting off alarm bells everywhere, but she's always determined to do the right thing and see justice done. That's the Rei Shimura that's won fans everywhere and the Rei Shimura that will always be at the heart of this series, in spite of whatever direction the author takes her heroine in.	2005-10-12
13768:US	52830980	R30ASYWIN7LHZ7	0060798599	941927336	Scandalous	Books	2	26	34	N	N	very sensual but a bit of a bland read nonetheless	Unwilling as I am to be the sole dissenting voice here, I have to own that I found Jenna Petersen's \\"Scandalous\\" to be a disappointing read. The storyline was a very basic one, with very few frills -- obviously the book was meant to be a character driven one, that focused on the unexpected relationship that developed between Dominic Mallory, and unlooked for bride, Katherine Flemming. Unfortunately, while the hero and heroine were likable, and Dominic had enough angst and inner demons to make this book interesting, the author seems to have used all her energy and talents to showcase the sizzling and sensual energy that Dominic and Katherine generated between them, and not enough effort, I thought, was spent on the story at hand.    The black sheep of the Mallory family, Dominic Mallory has spent a great many years avoiding his family and trying to discover the identity of his biological father. Now however, he finds himself at home again in order to celebrate his older brother's, Cole, upcoming marriage to the beautiful heiress, Katherine Flemming, and unexpectedly in the middle of another scandal when Cole's thought-to-be-dead first wife turns up, very much alive, three days before the wedding.     Because he needs Katherine's money, Cole makes Dominic a dirty proposition: if Dominic agrees to marry Katherine, Cole would deed over Lansing Square to Dominic (Lansing Square is the house where their mother had had her affair, and where Dominic is sure that the clues to his father's identity would be found.) And loath though he is to do his brother's bidding, Dominic needs to know who his father is; and so he agrees to Cole's proposal. Of course the fact that he would be marrying a woman that he also desires helps make this agreement a great deal more palatable. However, while getting Katherine to agree to marry him proved easier than he had anticipated, what Dominic hadn't counted on was how quickly Katherine would become a vital part of his life, or how much claim she would have on his heart. And how difficult it would be for him to acknowledge that's he in love with his wife and that he desires her love in return...    That Dominic was so obsessed with discovering the identity of his father that it blinded him to everything else, I understood. I even thought that the author did a rather good job of making me see why even though he hated being a pawn in Cole's master plan, he would agree to Cole's terms. And if I didn't like that Katherine would keep forgiving Dominic for his idiotic and secretive behaviour over and over again instead of braining him every now and then, that was my outlook. No, for me the problem with \\"Scandalous\\" was how the back story was never really developed enough -- like why Larissa, Cole and Dominic's mother, seemed to favour Cole over Dominic, and why, even after her brutal husband had died, she refused to reveal anything to Dominic. Because I do think that Larissa would have added a nice texture of complexity to the book if she had been more than a mere whisper in the book. The other thing that bothered me was that there was nothing to give me a clue as to which period this book was set in. Was it a Regency-era novel or a Victorian or even an Edwardian? I don't require that the historical romance novels I read hit me on the head with minute period details, but some basic information would have been nice -- like which county Lansing Square was in for example. If it wasn't for the mention of a few titles here and there and London, this novel could even have taken place in a galaxy far, far away.    Ultimately, \\"Scandalous\\" didn't hold my attention or interest because the story was very spare and was really nothing that hadn't been offered before. And while the hero and heroine were nice enough, theirs wasn't (I felt) a poignant enough story to pull at the heart strings and to make one become involved enough with their fates. In all, a bland 2 star read.	2005-10-06
15440:US	52830980	R2NOHVUZZ70BAY	0451216792	564771507	Dying in Style (Josie Marcus, Mystery Shopper, Book 1)	Books	3	18	19	N	N	a fun 3 1/2 star read	Elaine Viets, the author of the Dead-End Jobs mystery series, has penned yet another engaging mystery series, the Josie Marcus mystery series. This series features a young, single mother who has the thankless and grueling job of being a mystery shopper, and who, in this very first installment of the series, finds herself being the prime suspect in the murder of a young socialite. <br /> <br />In spite of the fact that it's a grueling and thankless job, Josie Marcus rather enjoys being a mystery shopper, seeing it as doing her bit to ensure that all shoppers (and not just the rich and famous) get good service. Also, as a single mother who had dropped out of college in order to have her child, there are very few jobs that Josie is qualified for. But even though Josie is used to being cursed and threatened by employees who are not doing their job, Josie is nevertheless shocked when her latest assignment, that of checking out the services at swanky Danessa stores, ends with her being suspected of murder. <br /> <br />Danessa Celedine, a much beloved St. Louis socialite, owns several high-end accessory stores that sell not only her much prized handbags, but also accessories of other, much coveted designers as well. And Danessa's stores are about to be sold to the Creshan Corporation for a great deal of money. However, before the deal goes through, the Creashan Corporation has hired Josie's firm to check out Danessa's operation in order to ensure that they are paying for exactly what they believe they're buying. Josie is thrilled: in the normal course of things, Danessa's expensive stores aren't exactly the kind of stores she'd be able to afford to shop at. But Josie's euphoria soon comes crashing to the ground when her investigations provides her with evidence that Danessa's stores are poorly managed and shoddily run. And while Josie has braced herself for the fallout that her report would generate, the last thing she expected was to have Danessa personally insult her and threaten her with a lawsuit. Could things get any worse? In Josie's case, yes. Especially when Danessa is found strangled in one of her stores the very day after her acrimonious encounter with Josie, and Josie ends up as suspect number one in the murder. Knowing full well that she's innocent, but deeply afraid that she will take the fall for the murder, Josie decides to do some investigating of her own in order to save her own skin... <br /> <br />Whether or not you totally enjoy Elaine Viets' latest offering is going to depend very much on whether or not you enjoy the manner in which she constructs her novels. \\"Dying in Style\\" follows set patterns that she usually uses -- a mystery subplot that tends to be a little on the \\"light\\" side -- i.e. it's not that suspenseful, and lacks the kind of cunning plot twists that would make it a thrilling page turner, and that focuses, quite often, on the trials and tribulations of the protagonist's life. What I liked about  \\"Dying in Style\\" was that it was a very pleasing and absorbing read: it possessed gentle humour (I really enjoyed Josie's ruminations about brunch), two engaging characters (plucky Josie and her supportive best friend, Alyse) and had its moments of poignancy (as when the book explores Josie's loving yet troubled relationship with her mother, and when Alyse reveals how unhappy her marriage is). What I didn't like so much was the scant number of clues and how Josie was able to suddenly solve the mystery. However, pacing was even and the prose style smooth and fluid. So that all in all, \\"Dying in Style\\" turned out to be a fun 3 1/2 star read. <br />	2005-10-05
16093:US	52830980	R3SL57WE5ASI2M	0451216822	286536341	When Horses Fly (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	a very engaging read	In spite of my feeling that \\"When Horses Fly\\" ended a little disconcertingly, I still rather enjoyed the book and would recommend it to Regency-era romance readers who are a little tired of the books that are all about the London Season, balls and beaux, or books that have the Napoleonic wars and a spy motif for a subplot, and would really enjoy something a little different. Laura Bishop's \\"When Horses fly\\" is a well written novel, that possesses a heroine, Cora, who's no shrinking violet (even if she does have a few daft moments), and has for a hero (Alex) a brusque and commanding gentleman who has suffered emotional abuse from his father but who still possesses honour and who doesn't, believe or not, behave like a spoilt brat!  <br /> <br />Ever since her father passed away, Cora MacLaren, has moved from household to household, going wherever she was needed, taking care of various sick relatives and running their households in exchange from room and board. Now, however, she seems to have reached the end of the road: the relative she's currently living with, her great-aunt Leyburn is dying, and there seems to be no where left for Cora to go. And so Cora's Great-aunt writes to the crusty, tightfisted Lord Wintercroft, the head of the family, to ask him to take Cora in. And much to everyone's surprise, Lord Wintercroft writes back to invite Cora to come and live with him and his family in Sussex. Almost as soon as Cora arrives at Wintercroft (Lord Wintercroft's estate), however, she discovers that the situation in Wintercroft is far from ideal: the house is badly run, and Lord Wintercroft who is estranged (and seems to almost hate) from his eldest son, Alexander, has surrounded himself with impecunious relatives that he enjoys nedddling. Used to trying to solve problems and make situations better, Cora soon sets out to resolve all conflicts. But she may have bitten off more than she can chew in this particular case, as it soon becomes evident that someone rather resents her presence and has taken steps to make her threatened. Who is her aggressor and just how much harm does he/she mean to do her? And then there is the whole issue of Alexander, a brusque and almost rude gentleman, who doesn't like her but whom Cora is rather attracted to. Could he be the one behind all her mishaps? Or should she listen to heart and trust him? <br /> <br />I thoroughly enjoyed \\"When Horses Fly\\" -- not only was a bit of a departure from the usual fare one is given these days, it was also a very engaging and enjoyable book. I liked the independent and quick tempered Cora, and how she handled the situation she found herself in, and the people she had to deal with; yes, it is true that there were a few instances where I wondered about her intelligence (like when she followed Alex into danger, without giving a thought to the danger that she herself was courting), but since this allowed for a moment of romance between the two, it was easy to overlook this failing on Cora's part. I also rather liked Alex as well who, refreshingly, in spite of his bad treatment, didn't develop a huge chip on his shoulder and used it as an excuse to behave badly. Yes, he was curt, brusque and rather rude at times, but throughout it all, Alex behaved with honour and rather well. So that it was really easy for me to root for these two to achieve their happily ever-after ending. Strangely enough, however, my one criticism with the book lay in the manner in which the gothicky subplot came to nothing. At one point it seemed as if someone was out to put and end to Cora's life; there was also a small smuggling subplot -- both these subplots were brilliantly interwoven into the main storyline and really added to the suspense and atmosphere in the book. But then these threads were resolved with a whimper instead of a bang I was expecting, and everything just felt a little anticlimactic after that. However, in spite of this small dissatisfaction, I did enjoy this book tremendously,and would still recommend it as a really good read, in spite of everything.	2005-10-04
28635:US	52830980	R26TYCSHJ42BHJ	0786715723	487309466	The Palace Tiger: A Detective Joe Sandilands Mystery (Joe Sandilands Murder Mysteries)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	a completely riveting and absorbing read	Once again Barbara Cleverly delivers: \\"The Palace Tiger\\" is yet another Joe Sandilands mystery novel that is full of cunning plot twists and turns, red herring suspects and a storyline that's full of suspense and intrigue -- and all set in a lush and colourful India of the British Raj.  <br /> <br />Because a man-eating tiger seems is on the loose in Ranipur, its ruler, Udai Singh, requests that the well known adventurer, Edgar Troop, come up to help kill it.  And because he is feeling bored and completely at loose ends, Joe Sandilands gladly agrees to accompany Troop to Ranipur when Troop asks him if he'd like to come along for the adventure.  Once there, however, both Sandilands and Troop quickly realize that a man-eating tiger is the least of the rich and wily Udai Singh's problems.  The kingdom is facing a real crisis because both of Udai Singh's legitimate sons have fallen victim to freak accidents, leaving the principality without legitimate heirs to take over -- of course there is the King's twelve-year-old illegitimate son, Bahadur.  And as Sandilands ponders on Udai Singh's singularly bad luck, a question looms in his mind:  were the two princes victims of circumstance, or were they victims of a ruthless killer?  Determined to protect Bahadur, Sandilands begins to hunt for answers, and so begins the hunt for a very dangerous killer who seems to stalk the very corridors of the palace... <br /> <br />\\"The Palace Tiger\\" is yet another thrilling and suspenseful installment in the Joseph Sandliands mystery series that demands that one finish the book in one go.  So that even though I'm not an absolute fan of the series (it is difficult to be a real fan when Cleverly's portrayals of the Indians tends to fall along stereotypical lines: they're either unscrupulous and always smiling or else they're really foolish and always smiling), honesty compels me to admit that Ms. Cleverly knows how to write a good, riveting read that will keep you happily engrossed till thevery last page. Complete with a cast of fascintating characters, vivid imagery, atmosphere and an absorbing and intriguing storyline, \\"The Palace Tiger\\" was a riveting read from beginning to end. But I have to admit, even though I did enjoy \\"The Palace Tiger,\\" to being thankful that Barbara Cleverly's next Joseph Sandilands mystery novel will take place in England. Perhaps now I will be able to enjoy this series without reservations!	2005-09-28
30676:US	52830980	R18N09Y11YQ6C4	0821778552	748599174	Some Like It Wicked (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	2	9	10	N	N	a very disappointing read	Deborah Raleigh's \\"Some Like It Wicked\\" was a truly disappointing read for me. I cannot say whether it was because the plot was executed in a rather lackluster manner, or whether it was because it was full of cliches, or whether it was because every chapter started out with a \\"Dear Diary\\" entry which I found irritating (how many Regency-era diaries really started with a \\"Dear Diary\\" entry for goodness sake?) <br /> <br />The daughter of a cit and an aristocrat (and herself a businesswoman), twenty-three year old Jane Middleton has decided that it is time she married; and so (without any introductions, connections or chaperone) Jane makes for London, sure that her immense wealth will allow her entree to the ton, and where she thinks she will be able to find a sensible husband who will be willing to overlook her lack of good looks and her background for her wealth. To her chagrin, Jane finds herself being quite overlooked by the young blades and soon finds herself consigned to being a wallflower. And then one night, while at a ball, she overhears a conversation that gives her an audacious idea. \\"Hellion\\" Cauldfield, a dashing rogue much sought after by the London drawing room hostesses, is in need of funds: he was his uncle's heir; but the old man has married a young wife in hopes of fathering a son, and the Hellion's creditors have been dogging his footsteps ever since. Hellion needs to get some money soon or else he will end up in prison. Jane's proposition to Hellion is that he help her become fashionable (by conducting a flirtation with her) for money to pay off his creditors. And while Hellion is leery about accepting Jane's proposal, he finds himself agreeing to this plan. What Jane hadn't counted on, however, was her unexpected susceptibility to the handsome rogue's seductive ways. Very quickly she realises that she will have to protect her vulnerable heart all else end up as another of Hellion's casualties... <br /> <br />The plot of \\"Some Like It Wicked\\" is one that many romance readers would be familiar with. And while there is nothing wrong with an author using an oft rendered storyline, most authors usually add a little twist here and there, or else give us characters that are memorable, likable and engaging. This really didn't happen here. Which was a shame because Deborah Raleigh had provided both Jane and Hellion with backgrounds (both led lonely childhoods because of who their parents were) that would have made this book a much deeper and more complex read. As it stands, the book follows along the very predictable lines of Hellion trying to seduce Jane into compliance and her, resisting him every inch if the way, until a BIG MISUNDERSTANDING develops between them. Fortunately, Ms Raleigh works around this plot gambit quickly so that the two talk things through and work things out. The thing that really grated though was how the author could have allowed for her heroine to think that she could just turn up in London sans chaperone, connections and introductions and actually partake in the festivities that constitute the Season? Did Jane grow up in a vacuum perhaps? And even if Jane's mother had died before imparting any knowledge about the ways of the ton to her daughter, shouldn't the fact that Jane had grown up neither being excepted by her father's friends nor her mother's relatives have given Jane a hint that it would not be so easy to crash the ton? <br /> <br />Were there any pluses then to \\"Some Like It Wicked?\\" Well, I rather liked Jane in spite of the dire diary entries. In spite of being a very sensible and capable young woman, Jane had a very vulnerable side. And the author did a first rate job of showing this in Jane's confused reactions and feelings for Hellion. (Hellion as a character was pretty much the stock rogue/rake-with-the-heart-of-gold hero). It was just a shame that the book was really worthy of a heroine like Jane.	2005-09-27
38128:US	52830980	R21EZ3U99Z057S	0670034614	766997739	Belle Ruin: A Novel (Emma Graham Mysteries)	Books	2	26	33	N	N	I can only blame myself (again) for having spent time on this...	I have to agree with all the reviewers that were disappointed with \\"Belle Ruin:\\" this is definitely a very badly edited book that also failed to live up to (my) expectations. <br /> <br />Budding newspaper reporter, twelve year old Emma Graham, needs a good, juicy story for her two part series. And when she hears about the old abandoned hotel, Belle Rouen (whom locals refer to as Belle Ruin), that was mysteriously burnt to the ground one day, she knows that she's onto something -- esp when she discovers that the hotel was also the site of another scandal, the kidnapping of a wealthy couple's baby. Neither crime was ever solved, and Emma is keen to see if she can uncover what really happened -- that is if she can get time away from her own boring and time consuming chores! <br /> <br />Again, I have only myself to blame for this. In spite of some rave reviews, I couldn't get into \\"Hotel Paradise;\\" so what made me think that I would be able to enjoy \\"Belle Ruin?\\" Needless to say, previous reviewers are right: if you haven't read \\"Hotel Paradise\\" or \\"Cold Flat Junction\\" DON'T PICK UP THIS BOOK. You really need to have steeped yourself with the prose style from those two books, as well as have immersed yourself in the events from them to perfectly understand and enjoy what's going on in this book. The other thing is that you like it when a resolution is spelt out for you at the end of the novel, you also might want to give this a miss: because I was skimming, I missed the 'sort-of' plot resolution and had to go back and reread the last few chapters in order to understand what had happened. Part of my problem was that I really didn't take to twelve year old Emma, and found her habit of slipping hot peppers into the meals of the crabby Miss Bertha, rather mean spirited. I suppose that it was supposed to show how spirited and mischievous Emma was, except that I didn't find it so. (And perhaps my attitude has a lot to do with having gone to an all girls school and the factthat by the time I was twelve the nuns had already impressed on me what was done as well as what was not done so that I may not be the best person to ask about acceptable twelve year old behavior!) <br /> <br />I will admit, however, that I did enjoy Martha Grimes' dreamy and haunting descriptions of the locale as well as her colourful portrayals of some of the characters; but this did not make up for the poor editing and a story that went no where. My advice? Borrow \\"Belle Ruin\\" from the library if you enjoyed the previous two installments in this series, because it really isn't worth the hardcover price. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-09-23
41351:US	52830980	R36NRQZ5XK0QEC	0312284985	613676824	Please Do Feed the Cat	Books	4	11	11	N	N	very entertaining	If you're a cat owner, and your cat(s) own your life, and you enjoy amusing, quirky cozies, you'll want to check out Marian Babson's \\"Please Do Feed the Cat.\\" It may not be the mystery novel of the year, but it is charming, humorous and loads of fun to read. <br /> <br />Back home safely at Brimful Coffers (a little village that's also a writer's colony) from her American book tour, mystery writer Lorinda Lucas is shocked to discover that things are not as they should be in her quiet little neck of the woods. For starters, her neighbour Lancelot Dalrymple, who writes hard-boiled mysteries under the pen name \\"Macho Magee\\" has taken up with Cressie Adair, a writer of fluffy \\"chick lit.\\" The thing is that Cressie is a harpy, and she has taken over Macho's life completely, down to putting both Lancelot and his chubby and lovable cat, Roscoe, on a severe diet. Further down the street, another denizen of the village is having trouble with her builders; and even more tragically, a little girl was killed in a hit-and-run accident at Brimful Coffers not too long ago. All in all, not quite the homecoming Lorinda had anticipated. More immediately though, both Lorinda and good friend, Freddie, are more concerned about prying Cressie away from Macho. Except that it's beginning to look as if it will take an act of murder to separate the two! Why is Macho putting up with Cressie and her evil ways? And why is the very cosmopolitan Cressie hiding out in a quiet little village like Brimful Coffers? Things get even more dramatic when two rival mystery writers descend on the village and seem only too ready to carry on their quarrel in full technicolour... <br /> <br />I thoroughly enjoyed reading \\"Please Do Feed the Cat.\\" It may not possess many clever plot twists, nor was it an incredibly suspenseful read, but it definitely was a very enjoyable and humorous read. I found myself chuckling at (and identifying with) how the cats (Had-I, But-Known & Roscoe) had their humans trained; and Ireally enjoyed the humorously ironic manner at which Marian Babson portrayed some of the authors in this mystery novel. No, \\"Please Do Feed the Cat\\" may not the most riveting read, but it definitely was a very charming and entertaining one. <br /> <br />	2005-09-21
44157:US	52830980	R3MFW29DK4SDKV	0571227759	243525171	Back to Bologna	Books	2	10	14	N	N	I felt completely cheated	I only have myself to blame for having spent the money, time and energy on this one because I haven't totally enjoyed an Aurelio Zen mystery novel since \\"Dead Lagoon.\\" But while the succeeding installments in the series have been interesting and enjoyable in spots, \\"Back to Bologna\\" really left me feeling cheated and irritated. And I totally agree with the previous reviewer: don't bother taking this novel seriously, esp if you're a mystery buff. Perhaps graduate students in comparative literature or semiotics may find this book interesting (indeed, \\"Back to Bologna\\" reminded me of several things I really hated about the Comparative Literature programme -- what can I say: I'm hopelessly old fashioned and probably belong somewhere pre WWII); but mystery addicts are bound to find this book frustrating in the extreme. <br /> <br />When the owner of the Bologna football team (a man much despised by most Bolognese for having brought their beloved team so low) is found murdered, Aurelio Zen is recalled from sick leave to keep and eye on the investigation because of the delicate political implications. But Zen, who happens to be contemplating early retirement doesn't really feel up to keeping an eye on anything -- esp since his current romantic relationship seems to be heading for a big bust-up. Things are not made any easier given that the police officer in charge of the case in Bologna resents the fact that Zen has been sent to keep and eye on things. And then a world renowned professor of semiotics is shot with the same gun that killed the owner of the football team. Is the connection? If so, what? And Zen pull himself out of his stupor to take an interest in the case? <br /> <br />Spoiler alert: somewhere towards to end of the book, one of the characters talks about how he's always wanted to write a book heavy on atmosphere, where the police detective never detective really doesn't resolve much. That in the nutshell is what this book is all about. It showcases that Mr.Dibdin knows his theories and is very well read; that he can really render a scene so that you feel as if you're actually physically there; and that he's fairly conversant with the modern Italian culture and sensibility. But a good mystery novel this is not. And given that I had bought \\"Back to Bologna\\" for its mystery, I felt really cheated. If you're a new to this series, try one of the earlier installments; if you're a fan, then be really aware of what it is you're in for so as to avoid disappointment.	2005-09-20
48606:US	52830980	R3QCO4R3HLBH1F	031233589X	822206616	Fall of a Philanderer (Daisy Dalrymple Mysteries, No. 14)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	a wonderfully enjoyable read	If you'd like to take a break from all those complex and riveting, but gory mysteries that feature tired police inspectors on the hunt for serial killers, who seem to be constantly thwarted by incompetent superiors and ambitious junior officers, you might consider Carola Dunn's latest offering in the utterly charming Daisy Dalrymple mystery series, \\"Fall of a Philanderer.\\" <br /> <br />It's the summer of 1924, and Daisy, her stepdaughter, Belinda, and Belinda's school-chum, Deva, are happily enjoying themselves at the seaside town of Westcombe while they wait for Daisy's husband, Alec, to join them. The days are glorious and Westcombe seems idyllic, but it doesn't take Daisy too long to realise that Westcombe seems to possess it's own version of the serpent in the garden, George Enderby, the landlord of the Schooner Inn. Married himself, George's specialty seems to be comforting women, married or not, who feel lonely and neglected. Daisy is determined not to get pulled into the affair -- after all she and her family are in Westcombe for a holiday! But soon after Alec's arrival, the Fletchers discover George's broken body while exploring a secluded cove. With Alec put in charge of the investigation, Daisy is, nevertheless, determined not to embarrass him by getting involved in the investigation herself. Except that people will confide in her! And if it will help Alec to make an arrest, Daisy is not adverse to rolling up her sleeves in order to sort through all the gossip and innuendo in order to help Alec arrive at the truth... <br /> <br />While \\"Fall of a Philanderer\\" was not the thrilling, fast paced, on-the-edge-of-your-seat kind of read, it was nice, quick and enjoyable one nonetheless. The plot unfolded in a fairly even and straightforward manner -- there were no jaw dropping plot twists, even though the book did possess quite a few suspects that should keep readers wondering for a fair while. The thing about \\"Fall of a Philanderer\\" is that it is a nice, relaxing and fun read. It'sot very complex, or very clever. It is, however, very well written and brilliantly executed. And after having read some mystery novels that have been heavy on atmosphere and possessed convoluted plot premises that went no where and left one feeling confused and cheated, \\"Fall of a Philanderer\\" was a wonderful treat. I knew what I was in for, and Carola Dunn delivered in spades! A wonderfully fun read.  <br /> <br />(Note: I really liked the author's description of the coastal town of Westcombe. It was vivid and inviting, and in a rather interesting coincidence reminded me of my recent trips to a few coastal towns in Northern Oregon.)	2005-09-18
52291:US	52830980	RBFJM11Y0IMRB	0451216369	661966700	Dedication (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	a definite keeper	Romance readers looking for a fresh, new voice that's worth taking note of can rejoice, because Janet Mullany's debut novel is definitely something to take notice of. However, a word of warning, esp for readers who prefer to usual Signet Regency romance format -- \\"Dedication\\" is much more meatier read. It possesses a few rather graphic love scenes and some rather frank conversations about sex. But if you're willing to accept this more sensual than usual offering from Signet, than you're in for a treat: for \\"Dedication\\" is full bodied, fully textured and completely absorbing read. <br /> <br />When Adam Ashworth receives news that that his ward, Viscount Tillotson is keeping his mistress in his London house, Adam immediately makes for London in order to exercise some damage control. What Adam discovers on reaching London is not a scandal the making, but that Tillotson is sitting for an allegorical portrait. True, Tillotson seems quite smitten with the talented but plain artist, Miss Elaine Twyford, but the Miss Twyford doesn't show signs of reciprocating Tillostson's feelings. No, the scandal and awkwardness doesn't lie there but rather in the person of Miss Twyford's duenna and patron, Mrs. Fabienne Argonac Craigmont, and someone that Adam has a past with. <br /> <br />About twenty years ago Fabienne Argonac was a young and innocent emigre when she fell in love with the rakish Adam Ashworth. But their relationship ended badly with both parties blaming the other for the bad and bitter ending. Now, here they are, thrown together again all these years later. Can they put they're past behind them and start again? After all, they are different people now (Adam is a staid grandfather and widower, while Fabienne is a sophisticated patroness of the arts); and yet neither finds that they can forget or forgive the past. But as current affairs push them into each other's lives, Adam discovers how much he still is in love with Fabienne and how much he needs her. Now if only hecould get the stubborn woman to admit that she still loves and needs him... <br /> <br />\\"Dedication\\" is a fairly complex and textured read, with quite a few subplots and characters. The previous relationship that Adam and Fabienne had and how it ended spawns several subplots that deal with the secrets that Adam and Fabienne have kept since then and that involve quite a few characters in the story. The author's capability and brilliance shines through when you realise that you've read most of the book without once having lost the drift or forgetting who a certain character was and how (s)he fitted into everything. I liked that this story focused on an older couple (one who was a grandfather), and that it was still a very compelling and slightly edgy read. Neither Adam nor Fabienne are ready for rocking chairs and knitting yet! I also rather liked that even though their older, the author doesn't portray them as wiser -- Adam and Fabienne are still impulsive and passionate individuals, still capable of jumping the gun and making mistakes (yes, there are several BIG MISUNDERSTANDINGS) -- fortunately, this time around, they're able to work through everything and achieve their happier-ever-after ending.  <br /> <br />All in all this was truly full bodied, multi faceted and very special read, worth touting. I'm really looking forward to future novels by this author	2005-09-15
53544:US	52830980	R2QR56GCYC69SE	0451214781	720627977	Lady Dearing's Masquerade (Signet Super Regency Romance)	Books	5	54	55	N	N	just the tonic: a wonderfully absorbing and enjoyable read	Having survived, of late, on a diet of some rather horrendously bad as well as averagely goodish reads in the Regency romance department, I had (almost) forgotten what a tonic a good romance novel could be. Thank goodness for Elena Greene's \\"Lady Dearing's Masquerade:\\" it definitely fit the bill. Possessing a mature and interesting heroine and hero, as well s a capably and brilliantly executed plot, \\"Lady Dearing's Masquerade\\" was an example of how a novel can be compelling and absorbing even when the storyline is a very basic and often rendered one. <br /> <br />Two years ago, the young widow, Lady Olivia Dearing, unfairly lost her good name when gossip that she had gone to a public masquerade at the Pantheon Theatre and that she was seen kissing a man took the ton by storm. But rather than wring her hands with despair at the sad state of things, Olivia has instead taken steps to lead as fulfilling a life as possible far from the gossiping ton. Leading a quiet and secluded life at her estate (Rosemead), Olivia has given generously, both her time and money, to London's Foundling Hospital; she has also taken four of the children into her home. But her world is about to come apart, for one of the governors of the hospital, Sir Jeremy Fairhill, has turned up at her doorstep, claiming that he's come to check up on how her charges are faring. Olivia fears that Jeremy is there in order to find an excuse to take the children away from her. So what will he do when he discovers that Olivia is the lady he kissed so tenderly and passionately at the Pantheon Theatre? Olivia cannot allow for Jeremy to make the connection; and yet she cannot deny that the feelings that Jeremy aroused in her that day are still blazing. Should she take the second chance that has been granted her? Can she afford to? For if Jeremy believes the gossip about her supposed notoriety, he just might take the children away... <br /> <br />I enjoyed this novel from beginning to end. Yes, it's an oft used plot, and yes, the part where all the evil intriguers get their comeuppance was a bit rushed, but on the flip side you've got a very nice tale about second chances at love involving a very deserving hero and heroine. Intelligent, kind, generous and haunted by their respective pasts, both Olivia and Jeremy deserved their second chance together, and one couldn't help but root for them to get it. I thought that the manner in which the author contrived for Jeremy to realise that the notorious Lady Dearing and the sweet and shy lady he had met at the theatre were one and the same was rather well done -- even the requisite BIG MISUNDERSTANDING on Jeremy's part was capably and cleverly handled. The highlight for me, however, was how Olivia took an active part in protecting the children under her care and herself when one of the villains tries to blackmail. No hapless damsel waiting for fate to step in here! <br /> <br />There is very little new and novel in \\"Lady Dearing's Masquerade\\" but that didn't stop it from being a very absorbing and enjoyable read, and one worth recommending as a good and satisfying read.	2005-09-15
62640:US	52830980	R1I42NL5SJTQS	0060762993	279631653	After Midnight (Lords of Midnight)	Books	3	15	21	N	N	not one of her best...	I share a previous reviewer's opinion: this is not one of Teresa Medeiros' better offerings; because while the trademark sizzling attraction between the hero and heroine is there for readers to see and enjoy, the story is a bit flat, and the author's obvious talent at being able to keep readers (me, anyway) riveted to the unfolding and compelling plot was not apparent this time around. <br /> <br />Caroline Cabot is in a bind: the family finances are not what it should be, and everyone had thought that the way to recoup was for the more beautiful Cabot sister, Viviennne, to contract an advantageous match. But when it comes to her notice that Vivienne has aroused the interest of the notorious Adrian Kane, whom many whisper is a vampire, Caroline knows that she has to nip this courtship in the bud. What Caroline didn't count on was her unexpected attraction to the rougue or that he would be equally attracted to her. Now Caroline must face the ugly fact that she is competing with her sweet natured and prettier sister for the attentions of a man who might be the downfall of them all... <br /> <br />Eventhough I'm a fan, I have to say that \\"After Midnight\\" was a bit of a disappointment. The storyline was a rather interesting and promising one, but the trademark Medeiros manner of deftly fleshing out all complexities and textures of a basic plot was almost absent. So that if it wasn't for her capable portrayal of the sizzling and sensuous attraction between Adrian and Caroline, \\"After Midnight\\" would have been a bit of an average read. And while her talent at portraying characters and bringing them to life was apparent, Adrian Kane remained a bit of a distant enigma for much of the novel, which was a bit of a shame, I thought. My other disappointment lay in the manner in which Viviennne was dealt with -- it felt as if no effort was put into telling hr story. And while I understood this (this was afterall Caroline's story), Vivienne was a vital part of \\"After Midnight\\" andI did think that she merited slightly more than the quick and efficient ending she was given (esp since I really liked the character she ended up with).  <br /> <br />I suppose part of the problem was that too much time was spent showing the attraction and connection between Adrian and Caroline, and not enough time was spent with developing the plot -- why Adrian was considered a vampire, what he was really up to, etc. As it is, we're told all these things in clipped converstions between Caroline and Adrain, not shown and this was really too bad because \\"After Midnight\\" had all the hallmarks of being another brilliant Medeiros novel. As it is, it is a well written and interesting novel, but not really one that showcases her many talents.	2005-09-10
75653:US	52830980	R8XFQ7Z058IZI	0451216237	854455154	Dangerous Passions (Signet Eclipse)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	3 1/2 stars: a good read	Colonel Lord Marcus Cordell has been commanded back to England by that mysterious organisation, the Black Phoenix, in order to help hunt for a determined killer who is killing off members of the ton. And in order to give him entry into the fashionable drawing rooms of London society, he has been paired in this endeavour with the cool London beauty, Lady Eve Halliday. The duo are to pretend to be engaged while they carry out their investigations so that the gossips will not notice what it is they're really up to. It should have been a fool proof plan, except that Cordell senses that the Lady Eve detests him immensely, and the she has her own agenda that bodes ill for him... <br /> <br />It is obvious that \\"Dangerous Passions\\" is part of a series, because, unfortunately, there is, sometimes, that foggy sensation one gets when one wonders into a play when it's halfway through. Fortunately, the author is a very good storyteller, and she really did a wonderful job of holding my interest in spite of everything. Using letters, she fills us in on the source of Lady Eve's anger and disdain for Cordell, even as she carefully fleshes out the characters of her chief portagonist. Both Lady Eve and Cordell are lonley people, driven by their inner demons and determined to act according to their convictions no matter the cost. In Lady Eve's case, her determination to see that Cordell pay for his actions comes into collision with her growing attraction and feelings of love for him; while Cordell's tendency to act according to his strict code of honour costs him over and over again. All this is cleverly framed by the perplexing murder investigation that Cordell and Lady Eve are conducting and that the author carefully and intriguingly draws out till the very end. So that, even though I had some niggles (like who exactly the Black  <br />Phonenix was, what their agenda was, why these murders were so very important to them that they had to be solved and why they chose to pair Lady Evewith Cordell), \\"Dangerous Passions\\" still turned out to be a very engaging and absorbing read, and well worth the money and time spent.	2005-09-03
76780:US	52830980	R1NN73B9KXPW7I	0786716088	255953719	After the Armistice Ball: A Dandy Gilver Murder Mystery	Books	4	24	27	N	N	a very promising debut...	Reading \\"After the Armistice Ball\\" was almost like stepping back in time and a bit of a challenge. To begin with the author's, Catriona McPherson, style of writing was reminiscent of Nancy Mitford and E.F. Benson, with some (very) light Agatha Chrsitie-like touches thrown in. All this really takes getting uses to -- esp characters' tendency to pepper practically all their conversations with the word \\"darling.\\" But once you get used to it, the book was quite the enjoyable read, full of atmosphere and colour, and fairly intriguing from beginning to end. <br /> <br />World War I is over, and the landed gentry is beginning to feel the pinch not only of the changing times and fashions, but also monetarily-wise. All except the Esslmonts, that is. Silas and Daisy Esslmont are enjoying all the comforts and luxury that owning the very distasteful and comercial enterprise of an insurance company can bring. That is until scandal rears its ugly head. Lena Duffy has discovered to her horror that the fabulous Duffy diamonds are fakes, and she's claiming that the switch must have taken place when she was visitng the Esslemonts during the Armistice Ball. She wants Silas to pay for stolen diamonds and because he won't (because the policy has lapsed) is conducting a whispering campaign about Silas' culpability and his lack of honour. At her wit's end about what to do, Daisy, Silas's wife, hires Dandy Gilver to find out what it is Lena really wants. Bored with life at the moment, Dandy readily agrees, especially since Daisy has offered her a fee to solve her problem for her. But the last thing Dandy expected when she agreed to act as go-between for Lena and the Esslemonts was to become involved in the suspicious death of a young giril she's rather fond of, or that trying to make heads or tails as to what's going on would bring her face to face with a very cold blooded killer... <br /> <br />Cationa McPherson has written a very absorbing debut novel. The prose style may take a little getting used to, and Dandy's tendency not to accept certain unpleasant home truths mainly because she cannot believe anyone of her set would behave that way can get a little grating, but that manner in which the author presents us with a strata of society that has had its time and that is struggling to come to grips with the change while valiantly plowing onwards, was fasincating. So that even though \\"After the Armistice Ball\\" was not very supenseful and lacked any telling plot twists and red herring suspects, it was a compelling read neonetheless. Reading of how Dandy gradually come to realise what's going on, and how she manages to solve the mystery was great fun -- I rather enjoyed the realistic manne in which the author presented us with how an amateur investigator would naturally blunder about while trying to solve her first case. A well written and enjoyable read, this is especially for readers who enjoy mysteries set in the 1920s and that is full of vibrant fun.	2005-09-03
81076:US	52830980	R2KM3BNBW1Z5E7	0345456564	507284032	Angels in the Gloom: A Novel (World War One Novels)	Books	4	7	11	N	N	another brilliant entry in a compelling series	Another powerful entry in Anne Perry's Reavlry-WWI mystery series. <br /> <br />It's March of 1916, the war is still raging on and England and her allies are experiencing enormous losses and facing, for the first time, the realisation that they may lose the war. If only America, with all her abundant resources would join in... But in the meantime, the Reavlry brothers, Joseph and Matthew, continue with their determined hunt for the Peacemaker, a powerful and dangerous foe who is repsonsible for their parents murder and who has a mad scheme to bring about a peace between England and Germany that would only tarnish England's honour with her current allies.  <br /> <br />Joseph, however, soon finds himself once again in the quiet countryside of Cambridgeshire, when he gets injured while trying to rescue a soldier from no man's land. Once home again, Joseph finds himself, unexpectedly, couseling a very inept vicar as well as providing comfort for the many women of the village who have lost their husbands and sons. That is until a weapons scientist, Theo Blaine, is  found brutally and viciously murdered in his garden. Rumours run rampant that there is a German spy in the village and the he has murdered Blaine in order to stop the work he was doing. But, while assissting the police in their investigations, Joseph discovers that Blaine was a man with quite a few secrets. Was Blaine murdered by a spy or was he murdered because of his secrets? Once again, Joseph finds himself in the middle of a perplexing murder investigation... <br /> <br />\\"Angels in the Gloom\\" truly was a riveting read. The storyline was divided into two subplots -- one dealing with brother Matthew's efforts to thwart the nefarious schemes of a beautiful Irish spy who is in league with the Peacemaker, and the other to do with Joseph's hunt for Blaine's murderer. Both are very well done and full of suspense and intrigue. But what really made this novel a fantastic read was how Anne Perry developed the motif of the women who were left behind -- the wives and mothers who faced the fears that they would never see their menfolk again and the hurt they felt over the fact that their husbands were keeping part of themselves from them. And this was mavellously encapsulated in the manner in which Perry depicted what Hannah, the married Reavlry sister experienced. Her confusion over the way things were changing socially as well as the anguish and resentment she felt because her family would keep things secret from her. And it was this heart-rendering motif that made \\"Angels in the Gloom\\" something out of the ordinary and well worth recommending as an excellent read.	2005-08-31
89788:US	52830980	RG4KZMGLJ7TVA	0786715987	693667995	Chaucer and the Legend of Good Women: A Medieval Murder Mystery	Books	2	7	8	N	N	2 1/2 stars: rather disappointing unfortunately	Even though he is old and sickly, Edward III of England is still intent on continuing his never-ending war with France. But in order to do that he must have money. And so, Geoffrey Chaucer is sent, once again, on another diplomatic errand. This time to Florence in order to secure the money that his king needs from the rich Lipari Bank. But even though the banker Lipari may be willing to throw caution to the wind and lend the English king the money he needs, others are eager to thwart this new venture; and Chaucer soon finds himself mixed up, not only in dangerous Florentine politics, but also in the strange and acrimonious relationship between the Lipari brothers, and murder...    I have to admit, I was really disappointed with this mystery novel, especially since I had enjoyed the first book in the series so very much. As a mystery novel, it rated a very bland 2 stars, while as a historical novel, it  rated about 3 stars. The thing is that was a very sterile and bland read. After a very promising and intriguing read, everything just fizzled. There was no tension or suspense, and the plot kept going backwards and forwards --  and sometimes in a very confusing way. So that for a novel that featured the fascinating Geoffrey Chaucer as chief protagonist, and that was supposed to take place in Florence during the exciting, early stages of the Renaissance, this was really irritating. The other problem was that characters were not properly developed -- too many remained enigmas like the young woman who appears at the beginning of the book but doesn't make another apperance until the near end; also certain plot motifs were never properly developed as well -- the strange and acrimonious relationship between the two Lipari brothers, for example. So that all in all, what with the lack of supsense, excitement and tension; the not properly developed characters and storyline; and all the to-ing and fro-ing, I'd have to vote this a very disappointing 2 1/2 star read	2005-08-26
90838:US	52830980	R3MGCL42ICHMNU	0451215885	22216867	Twin Peril (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	0	1	N	N	not worth the wait	Michael Winslow, the Duke of Fairfax, has vowed to marry only for love. But how to be sure that the lady he desires loves him, Michael Fairfax the man, rather than the title and riches that comes with the package? Michael soon realises that his problem is an even thornier one when he realses that the lady he's in love with, the beautiful and sweet tempered Lady Deborah Woodhurst's identical twin, Lady Diana's (who is Lady Deborah's exact opposite in temperament) prime objective seems to be to entrap him into marriage...    I had really been looking forward to reading Lady Deborah's and Michael's story ever since I read Sussanah Carelton's previous novel. \\"The Rake's Redemption.\\" Unfortunately, as a previous reviewer has already noted, \\"Twin Peril\\" is tied heavily to that book. All the tension and suspense happens off stage as it were (in \\"The Rake's Redemption\\") -- nothing new or novel ever happens and you begin to wonder why this book was written. Because, as it stands, the author could have tacked on Deborah's and Michael's story to \\"The Rake's Redemtion\\" and saved her fans some disappointment. The other problem with \\"Twin Peril\\" is that Lady Diana is not evil or nasty enough to carry the story -- she behaves very much like a spoilt child, and so again there is very little tension to make you wonder if Lady Diana will trick Michael into proposing to her. Unfortunately, the whole good twin/evil twin thing has been done before and a lot better by other Regency romance authors. I really had been looking forward to reading this novel, especially since Michael and Deborah as characters had rather captured my interest in \\"The Rake's Redemption\\" so that the disappointment was rather acute when I realised that \\"Twin Peril\\" really hadn't lived up to my expectation. (No doubt another lesson for me about expectations.) Which is a shame because Sussanah Carelton usually does deliver a good and polished read. Just not this time.	2005-08-26
114125:US	52830980	R39L13MM0IK6IO	0821778196	871300688	In Pursuit of a Proper Husband (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	a satisfying 3 1/2 star read	I have enjoyed Glenda Garland's previous books -- all save \\"A Delightful Folly\\" that is which failed to live up to my expectations. \\"In Pursuit of a Proper Husband\\" is a follow-up to \\"A Delightful Folly\\" and centers on one of the characters from \\"A Delightful Folly,\\" Noel, Viscount Raversby. <br /> <br />It's been two years since Viscount's Raversby's beautiful wife's (Anne) death. And while he still misses her completely, he has discovered that his wife had kept a secret from him. What this secret is, he's almost afraid to know. But know he must, especially since he has a suspicion that it involves his cad of a brother, Malcolm. And so he tracks his wife's best friend and cousin, Meg Grantham down, and tries to manipulate her into telling him what this secret is. In Meg, however, Raversby has met his match. A military widow who followed the drum, Meg has seen a lot and survived a lot, too much to allow some pampered aristocrat to bully her. But Meg soon realises that Raversby will not go away and seems intent on pushing his presence on her, probably hoping to charm her into telling all. And that's when Meg comes up with a devilish plan of her own. Quickly realising that her shrewish and unpolished niece, Lizzie, is sure to suffer badly while making her bows in London, because of her bad manners, Meg bargains with Raversby that if he helps to see Lizzie credibly established and respectable married, then Meg will reveal all. Surely that will keep the man away. Except that Raversby picks up the gauntlet, and that Meg soon discovers to her dismay that like her dead friend, Anne, she too is quite susceptible to the handsome and dashing Viscount Raversby... <br /> <br />This is definitely a book for readers who prefer mature and intelligent heroines. Meg is no flighty or manipulative beauty; she's clever, witty and loyal, clinging to the beliefs she has, and the path she has chosen for herself. I liked the manner in which the author allowed for the novel to unfold, revealing the secret to the reader about a quarter way into the book, so that one could easily appreciate Meg's stance and root for her to get the better of Raversby. I also liked how she fitted in characters from \\"A Delightful Folly\\" allowing for several strands that had been left standing to develop further. And if I was not happy at poor Dorrie's fate, that was my outlook completely. Somehow I felt that Dorrie merited a story of her own, and felt that her ending was a tad shabby. Raversby, as a character, was a little bit more difficult to take to heart. To being with his harping at Meg to share Anne's secret seemed very intrusive; and then there was the fact that he frequently got the worse in the battle of wits between him and Meg, at which he would retire to sulk for a few pages. However, Glenda Garland does give him charm and humour and that does go a long way to making one appreciate this character. (And of course, one does feel sympathy for the man who lost the wife he loved so tragically and then was left with the constant and nagging fear that she had betrayed him in some way.) <br /> <br />All in all though, this was a very good read and one worth recommending. The characters were nicely presented and the story unfolded smoothly and quickly. Especially well done was how the author built up and allowed the romance between our hero and heroine to develop. And if I had one disappointment, it was with the speed at which Dorrie Bourre's story was quickly and undeservedly finished.	2005-08-13
116225:US	52830980	R1L59SPUV2YXXQ	031230448X	584955488	The Perfect Paragon (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 16)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	another entertaning and enjoyable installment	Another enjoyable and amusing installment in a series I have a huge soft spot for. This time around, Agatha finds herself caught up in two perplexing cases -- that of an unpleasant client who, unexpectedly, end up being murdered, and the sad and cruel murder of a young sixteen year old girl. <br /> <br />Agatha is beginning to feel her age and as a result is feeling quite depressed and blue about it. To top it all, her new detective agency is not doing all that well, and she's had to let a few employees go. But as a favour to Mrs. Bloxby, Agatha agrees to hire pensioner Phil Witherspoon, who brings in the extremely rich Robert Smedley as a client. Smedley thinks that his unassuming and dowdy wife, Mabel, is cheating on him, and he wants the evidence to prove it. And while Agatha dislikes Smedley on sight, finding him rude and boorish, she agrees to take on the case. But the saintly Mabel seems to be above reproach, and Agatha can't help shaking the feeling that she would be better served keeping an eye on her client instead. Her suspicions prove only all too true when first Smedley dismisses her, claiming that he had overreacted, and then ends up being poisoned at work. <br /> <br />At the same time, Agatha also finds herself involved in another murder case when she finds the body of missing teen, Jessica Bradley, and decides to find the killer both for publicity and because the sight of Jessica's abandoned body really affected her. The more Agatha and her team uncover about both cases, the more they seem to be connected. But what is the thing that links the two? And who would have wanted to kill poor, harmless Jessica? And in such a brutal way? Agatha is determined to find out... <br /> <br />This Agatha Raisin installment was a more sobering a read, mainly because the ironic humour that this series is famous for was quite absent. Also, Agatha's preoccupation with old age and loneliness tended to permeate the book. On the other hand, Agatha and her new team of investigators were fun to \\"watch\\" and they scurried around trying to figure what linked the two cases and how to bring the murderers to book. Agatha is in top detecting form, and her new team backs her up and complements her prefectly. So that if you're in the market for a well written and light cozy, featuring a tenacious and brusque middle-aged detective, you might just enjoy \\"The Perfect Paragon.\\"	2005-08-12
119565:US	52830980	RQJ76BLOYAPMK	0316735930	56140498	Field of Blood (Paddy Meehan, Book 1)	Books	4	28	28	N	N	not what I expected, but I enjoyed it anyway	Over the past few years, Denise Mina has earned herself the reputation of being one of the best suspense writers currently published. With \\"The Field of Blood\\" she's done something very different from her previous books, and something slightly more ambitious. So that while \\"The Field of Blood\\" may not be her best mystery offering, (\\"GarnetHill\\" was definitely the best one so far) -- mainly because this is not a very suspenseful read --it was a very absorbing and emotionally charged read, and one that gave readers not completely familiar with the social history of Scotland in the '60s, '70s & and the '80s, an idea of the prejudices that somone from a poor, working-class Irish-Catholic background would have experienced in Scotland during that period. <br /> <br />Young \\"Paddy\\" Meehan longs for the day when she will be a real journalist, writing articles and being taken seriously by the male journalists she works with, feeling quite dismal about her current status as a glorified gofer for the Scottish Daily News. But she never expected that it would take the brutal murder of a child, and the ostracism of her family and her fiance, Sean, in order for her dreams to be realised. For when the body of Brian Wilcox is found, and two other children are arrested for the murder, Paddy realises that one of the suspects is Sean's young cousin. Unwittingly, Paddy confides in the wrong person, and the story is splashed all over the news. Her family and Sean are furious with her, but that's the least of Paddy's problems. For Paddy refuses to believe that the two boys were solely responsible for Brian's death, and begins to do some investigative work on her own, and in doing so makes a very dangerous and determined person very, very nervous... <br /> <br />I enjoyed \\"Field of Blood\\" immensely, though it probably will not be everyone's cup of tea. The subject matter is shocking and brutal, even with Denise Mina's restrained handling of the subject matter. The violence and brutality ofthe crime is, thankfully, never explicit or sensationalised. Could this be one reason why the book is not as suspenseful as other novels dealing with the murder of children? I'm not sure, and I would like to think not. The truth of the matter though is that \\"Field of Blood\\" is not so much about the investigation into the murder of Brian Wilcox, so much as it is an examination of Paddy's life, her identity and her ambitions and her sense of right and wrong. From that point of view, \\"Field of Blood\\" is a standout read. Paddy is the kind of protagonist that most will readily take to and find engaging. So that for me, it didn't matter that about two-thirds of the book was not very suspenseful or edge-of-your-seat gripping. It still was an engrossing and absorbing read. And if I had one criticism about this book, it was that I thought that the entire subplot dealing with the other Paddy Meehan, the safecracker who was found guilty of a high profile murder case, detracted from the smooth flow of the book. How this fitted into \\"The Field of Blood\\" was a bit of a mystery to me, and I really do think that the book would have been a much better one without it.	2005-08-10
122729:US	52830980	R217BJPJJ9PJS8	042520443X	608344448	Gilding the Lady (Sinclair Family Saga)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	3 1/2 stars: a bit of a dragging start, but then...	My advise is to skim through the first five to six chapters -- they're a bit slow going and repetitive. However once you've breached the sixth chapter mark, \\"Gilding the Lady\\" becomes a very enjoyable and fascinating read about a young woman fighting to put all her old fears and insecurities behind her and save herself from an unjust accusation of murder. <br /> <br />Although Clarissa Fallon was born a gentlewoman, her life has not been an easy one -- growing up in poverty, she was first, sent to an orphanage when her mother died and her elder brother, Matthew, was thought to be dead, and later sold into servitude. Except that Matthew was not dead. And when several years later, Matthew, with the help of his new wife, Gemma, finds her, Clarissa really thought that all her troubles were behind her. Except that Clarissa is finding it to be exceptionally hard going trying to adjust to her new life of luxury, feeling very much a fraud, and fearing that someone will recognise that she was once a servant and make her and Matthew the laughingstocks of the ton.  <br /> <br />And then one day, Clarissa sees the matron of the hellish orphanage that she was sent to in one of the fashionable streets of London. Clarissa confronts her dragon, only to have her run off after a fierce face off. And when later the ex-matron is found murdered, Clarissa finds herself high on the suspect list. But this time, Clarissa need not fear facing the world on her own. For now she has Matthew and Gemma on her side, and unexpectedly the worldly Earl of Whitby, who has decided not only to help Clarissa find her place in Society, but to help her establish her innocence as well... <br /> <br />Because \\"Gilding the Lady\\" is a follow-up to \\"Vision in Blue\\" much of the interesting bits of this novel (what goes on in a badly run orphanage, poverty, and the kind of difficult lives that servants lead) was a little stale -- esp if you've just recently finished \\"Vision in Blue.\\" And if Clarissa had been a different sort of heroine, the first few chapters of the book might have been a tad more engaging. As it was, even though I tried to empathise with her fears and feelings of inadequacy, I did get tired of her self-pity after a bit. Fortunately, this is where the murder inquiry sets in -- the pacing picks up, the storyline livens up and Clarissa matures almost beyond recognition as she discovers something else to focus on aside from all her shortcomings. It is also at this point that the chemistry, hitherto quite a bit absent between our hero & heroine, starts to sizzle. And I'll say this for our stiff and aloof hero, the Earl of Whitby, he does know how to capture a girl's interest -- that scene in the carriage where he kisses Clarissa's wrist was very sensual. The biggest problem I had with \\"Gilding the Lady\\" however, was that the subplot dealing with Gabriel Sinclair's (from \\"Dear Impostor\\") search for his natural father kept intruding where it really wasn't wanted, and gave this novel an off center feel. I know that this search is what links several of the author's previous novels together, and serves as a set up for her next few books, but I really did think that this subplot intruded and detracted from the overall cohesive feel of \\"Gilding the Lady.\\" <br /> <br />Nicole Byrd is an extremely talented author, and I have enjoyed previous novels by her immensely (most notably \\"Robert's Lady,\\" \\"Dear Impostor\\" & \\"The Beauty in Black\\") and once Clarissa pulled herself out of her doldrums and started focusing on something else other than her shortcomings, \\"Gilding the Lady\\" proved to be a rather good read too. All in all a very good 3 1/2 star read.	2005-08-09
124133:US	52830980	R15ONRSFQWTYCQ	0425203018	910575409	Embroidered Truths (Needlecraft Mystery)	Books	3	16	16	N	N	a nice and charming cozy	While I'm quite a fan of Monica Ferris' Crewel World mystery series, honesty compels me to admit that the books in the series have been a mixture of hits and misses. \\"Embroidered Truths\\" unfortunately, is a bit of a miss. It starts off really well, and Monica Ferris does an excellent job of presenting to readers the close relationship that exsists between Betsy Devonshire, the owner of Crewel World and amateur sleuth, and her manager, Godwin; giving a really good thumbnail sketch of the kind of tempestuous relationship that good-natured and slightly flaky Godwin has with his richer, controlling boyfriend, John; and establishing why, when John is found murdered and Godwin is arrested for the crime, Betsy and the women who patronise Crewel World, pull out all the stops in order to help establish Godwin's innocence. The thing is, though, it is this \\"filler\\" bits that are good and engaging -- the character developments, establishing the storyline, and the setup for the murder. Once \\"Embroidered Truths\\" settles down to becoming a book about Betsy working to find other culprits and motives, the book looses steam and becomes a trifle bland, mainly because there really was very little investigation and uncovering of deep, dark secrets and murderous tendencies. Also how she eventually figures out who the murderer is, could be chalked down to pure luck than due to her investigative effots. On the other hand, \\"Embroidered Truths\\" does introduce one of the most interesting characters to grace the series in a while: lawyer Susan Lavery, who chucks her job at the big law firm in order to become a private detective. I do hope that we will be seeing more of her in future installments. So, would I recommend \\"Embroidered Truths\\" as a worthwhile read given that the mystery fizzled a bit towards the end? That would depend on what you're looking for in a mystery book. If you're looking for a cunning and intriguing read, that is fast paced and full of plot twists, you might want to givethis book a miss. However, if you're looking for a warm and charming cozy that is full of engaging and likable characters, then you'll want to read \\"Embroidered Truths,\\" because, in spite of my fault finding, I did enjoy reading this Crewel World installment, and found it to be a nice relaxing 3 star sort of read.	2005-08-08
131136:US	52830980	R1H31NWWECW0FC	055380197X	946248869	Locked Rooms (Mary Russell Novels)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	starts off well and then...	I had mixed feelings about Laurie R. King's \\"Locked Rooms.\\" On the one hand, the novel started out really well -- it was intriguing and tantalising. But about a little more than two-thirds into the book, things started to fizzle a little for me. Now this may well because I'm only a casual reader of this series, and am not an avid fan. I'm really more of a Doyle's Sherlock Holmes fan. So that when Mary Russell, because she felt threatened by Holmes' interest in her past and his constant questioning of her few memories, began to attribute his attention to his feeling bored, I felt a little irritated. I know that Mary was suffering and that she felt quite overwhelmed. But this was Sherlock Holmes for goodness sake, practically one of the greatest (fictional) detectives of all time, her husband and her colleague. How could she dismiss his interest and concern as boredom? Also a little grating was her refusal to see as suspicious all the deaths of those close to her family or her soon after her family's accident deaths. Again, this is Mary Russell, supposedly a really brilliant and savvy detective -- not some dimwitted heroine with more hair than wit. Was it really credible that she would casually dismiss everything as a coincidence?  <br /> <br />It seems as if now that I've moved far away from the Bay Area and the San Francisco traffic, I have a real nostalgic feel for the city. So, when I learnt that the latest Laurie King Holmes & Russell installment was set in San Francisco, I knew that I had to read the book. On the whole, it was a very entertaining read. The first half of the book really lived up to my expectations -- it was intriguing and absorbing, and I avidly read on, enjoying what was unfolding before my eyes. I especially liked the bit where the art of feng shui figured into what was going on. But things really did begin to fizzle after a while, and the ending was really quite anticlimactic. Also, I felt that it was a waste to include Dashiell Hammett in thebook, when all he did was be a presence and contribute very minimally to the proceedings. And like a previous reviewer I felt a little confused as to how Mary's father could join the American army in 1914 to fight WWI. All in all then, \\"Locked Rooms\\" was a 3 star read.	2005-08-04
138637:US	52830980	RWJHJGBVTF41W	082177851X	258546044	Just Say Yes (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	a delightful and charming tale	The plot for Myretta Robens' \\"Just Say Yes\\" may be a somewhat unoriginal one (an heir to a dukedom falls in love with the delightful but unassuming daughter of a vicar while pretending to be a humble steward), however the author's engaging and charming take on this much used plot made it a very enjoyable read. <br /> <br />Tired of the London social scene, and deeply afraid that he'd end up leading a useless life of dissipation, the young Earl of Cheriton, Geoffrey Dorrington, jumps at the chance to do something worthwhile with his life when his brother-in-law, Lord Marchbourn, asks him to take a look at an estate he has just inherited and to put it in order. And so that he will be left alone to do his job, and not have to waste time making social calls which as the heir to a dukedom he would be forced to do, Geoffrey decides to pass himself off as the humble steward, Geoffrey Dorton. And his plan would have been perfection itself but for the complication of the vicar's charming and kindhearted daughter, Cassie. Where the pale, elegant and cool London ladies made no impression at all, short, tanned and practical Cassie delights at every turn. But the son and heir to a dukedom must not fancy himself in love with a humble vicar's daughter, for there would be no future in it. And yet, that's exactly what Geoffrey finds himself doing... <br /> <br />The charm of \\"Just Say Yes\\" lies in the telling. As I have already noted, the plot is a much used one with little variation on theme, but the lively and invigorating manner with which the author tells her simple and affecting tale, and the totally engaging character portrayals of the hero and heroine made the book a very pleasant and fairly absorbing read (although it is true that some characters were very typical stock types: like Cassie's pushing social climbing mother, the cowardly lout that Cassie's mother keeps throwing at her, and Geoffrey's stiff and proud father). The romance that developed between Geoffrey and Cassie was rather well done too -- I think that the author captured the quick and deep manner with which both the hero and heroine fell in love with each other rather well. So that all in all, even though this was not a very \\"deep\\" and complex read, and even though the plot premise was an oft used one, \\"Just Say Yes\\" proved to be good and worthwhile read. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-08-01
139011:US	52830980	R1UO785BCIT0AK	0821778412	845086985	Least Likely Lovers (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	8	9	N	N	a not very engaging read	If Miss Kitty Stone thought that having her younger and prettier sister, Beatrice, elope with her eligible beau, the Duke of Charlsey, from right under her nose was too embarrassing for words, the unpalatable knowledge that because of her family's financial situation, she will now have to live with Beatrice and the duke at Charlsey, is making her feel quite bilious. But beggars cannot be choosers. And soon Kitty finds herself and her mother, Lady Dunmark, living with Beatrice, the duke and the duke's forbidding mother, the Dowager Duchess at Charlsey, where things are far from rosy. The duke, used from a young age to allowing his mother to run the estates and all his affairs, has allowed his mother to rule the roost. And as a result, the disapproving Dowager Duchess is making everyone's life quite miserable. Kitty is determined to change things for her sister's sake. But how to do so? Help comes from an unexpected quarter, in the shape of the duke's older and dashing cousin, Major Jack Whitaker. While quite a favourite of the Dowager Duchess', Jack nevertheless deplores the manner in which she has kept the duke so firmly under her thumb for so long. And with both Kitty and Jack working together, surely they will be able to bring an end to the Dowager's reign of misery? Or so, Kiity reasons. And then she will have time to contemplate the deliciously giddy feelings that Jack inspires in her...    While the plot premise was very promising, the novel suffered from character inconstancies. By this I mean that the characters suffered from identity crisis from chapter to chapter. Take the character of Beatrice for example. She's first presented to us as a charming peahen totally incapable of complex thought, but halfway through the book, Beatrice is giving the ladies of Charsley a masterful setdown, and is being portrayed by her sister (who had hitherto bemoaned her charming sister's childishness) as a having the potential to be a great political hostess? It's the same with the duke, he progresses from being an ineffectual and bad poetry sprouting gentleman who allows his mother to run his house, to someone who could, potentially, make speeches that would help Wellesley win the war? And while the gradual maturing of a character is only all to possible, it just wasn't all that credible given the scope of this novel.  And then there was the strange plot twist bit about the Dowager's past and the Kitty's out of no where's antiwar stance. Now, if Kitty had, from the very moment she had met Jack, mentioned her aversion to war and killing, her sudden attack at the end would have made sense. Kitty's antiwar stand is understandable, but very modern. I'm not sure that very many Regency misses thought much about death and killing. Character portrayal and realisation is a vital component of a novel -- they can really either make a book memorable or else make it a bore. And when one cannot get a clear handle on the characters, the book really suffers. Perhaps it was just me being a little too demanding. Whatever the case, unfortunately for me \\"Least Likely Lovers\\" did not turn out to be a stellar read.	2005-08-01
142710:US	52830980	R2LVLVE6WKJS7J	082177817X	165844015	The House Party (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	a pleasant enough 3 star read	In \\"The House Party,\\" Jeanne Savery takes on the monumental task of dealing with four romance subplots with varying degrees of success. <br /> <br />Almost 20 years ago, beautiful and talented actress Diane Runyard said good-bye to her lover, Steven Cartwright (later Baron Cartwright), when his father secured an advantageous marriage for him. Now, Diane is one of the leading comedic actresses of her time, and, in a twist of irony, is being courted by her ex-lover's only son, 18 year old Steven at Lord Witherspoon's country estate. (Lord Witherspoon is an aficionado of the theatre, much to his practical daughter's, Francine, despair, and has just finished building a new and spectacular theatre on his estate. Lord Witherspoon hopes to stage a new production of \\"Oedipus\\" and has secured the services of Diane and her friend and colleague, Roger Brown, to help train the amateur actors, all members of the ton who are interested in the theatre.) And when Baron Cartwright gets word of the fact that his only son and heir is making up to an actress, he descends on Witherspoon's estate, determined to strike the fear of God into this upstart actress' heart. The last thing he expected was to see Diane again, looking to vibrant, lovely and appealing, or to come face to face with all his old, suppressed feelings of love. Can he hope to secure Diane's affections again? And what of the complication of his son? <br /> <br />While \\"The House Part\\" was a pleasant enough read, it suffered from having too many things going on. This meant that the author was unable to focus with real depth on the subplots -- in this case, the more interesting subplots. The main focus of this novel was the Diane-Lord Cartwright-young Steven subplot. Unfortunately, while Diane was an engaging and appealing heroine, the same cannot be said for Baron Cartwright, who came across as a stiff and arrogant man. His frequent dismissal of his son was a tad grating, and the author's later bid at explaining the coolness between father and son didn't really cut any ice with me. And truth to tell, the very young and immature Steven, was a better drawn character -- one even got the sense that with a few more years and maturity, that young Steven would be a hero to contend with -- and even the baron's dead father made more of an impression, than the baron did. The character that stole the book, however, was the cynical and sarcastic Sir Cyrall, who displayed unexpected depths, intelligence and sensitivity, and literally carried the book. Unfortunately, his romance subplot took on shades of the gothic, and was more \\"told\\" than \\"shown.\\" The other two romance subplots left a lot to be desired as well. (And I really couldn't understand why the supposed bluestocking of the book, Eustacia Fairchild, never bothered to figure out why her friend never bothered to figure out the significance of her name and why her friend, Rafe, refused to call her by her given name, until the very end of the novel. It's the sort of totty-headed behaviour bluestockings frequently indulge in in these Regencies, and which usually drive me to fits of exasperation! )  <br /> <br />The real trouble was that because the main romance subplot proved to be a rather uninteresting one for me, I had counted on the other subplots to pull me in. But because these were minor subplots were really background fillers for the main storyline, they were not properly developed, so that the overall effect was that this was a nice read but that something, ultimately, was lacking. On the other hand, \\"The House Party\\" was a very well written novel, with some fairly interesting and appealing characters (namely Diane and Sir Cyrall), so that all in all I'd vote this as an averagely good 3 star read.	2005-07-29
146305:US	52830980	R2CDD9TXXFMIL	0451216245	72167909	A Splendid Indescretion and the Grand Passion (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	great (re)reads for the price of one	I'm rather glad that Signet is reprinting some of the earlier works of a few of the more noteworthy Regency-era romance writers. And that they're actually issuing them in form of two-for-one packages, is just the icing on top of the cake. This time around, Signet has reissued \\"A Splendid Indiscretion\\" (one of my favourite Regencies) & \\"The Grand Passion.\\"     In \\"A Splendid Indiscretion,\\" pretty and good hearted Ada Suurringham is everything that a doting uncle could wish for in a niece -- if only she didn't have this propensity to be constantly woolgathering, and for forever falling into one muddle or the other because of her daydreaming. Always the foil for her more beautiful and self-abosrbed cousin, Cordelia, Ada had thought that she had gotten rather used to remaining in the background and being the subject of a lot of eye rolling. But when Ada's godmother, Viscountess Millineaux, issues an invitation for either Ada or Cordelia, to visit her and be launched into London Society, Ada's uncle is determined that Ada should be the one to go. What follows is a wonderfully humorous romp as Ada stoically makes for London, only to end up working in her godmother's house as a librarian's assistant instead of staying on as an hounoured guest. But that would be nothing if it were not for the fact that Ada has managed to fall in love with her godmother's son, the sophisticated and urbane, Ivor. Is it too much to hope that Ivor would look past her muddle-headedness and fall in love with her instead of the prefect Cornelia? (5 stars)    In \\"The Grand Passion,\\" Tess Brownlow has decided to marry her childhood playmate, Jeremy Beringer, even though she's not passionately in love with him. But when Jeremy dies in a coaching accident, all Tess can do thirst to avenge his death. And when she discovers the identity of the \\"gentleman\\" who so thoughtlessly caused Jeremy's death, she meticulously sets out to make the man pay. What Tess never counted on, however, was how Matthew Lotherwood, the Marquis of Bradbourne would awaken in her the passionate feelings that Jeremy never did. Should Tess go on with her plan of revenge, or embrace this chance to have a grand passion... (4 1/2 stars)    I feel in love with \\"A Splendid Indiscretion\\" the first time I read it, and even now, almost 20 years later, it is still one of my favourite novels and still brings a smile to my face. It is one of those charming and well written humourous tales that one can read and reread over the years without fearing that it will become stale or boring. On the other hand, my feelings about \\"The Grand Passion\\" have changed quite dramatically over the years. I didn't really like it all that much the first time I read it, and stayed away from rereading it over the years. But when I reread it a few days ago, I must say that I changed my outlook quite a bit. It is a very well written novel, and the manner in which Elizabeth Mansfield handles the whole thorny issue of revenge is one of the best I've ever read. I'm still not all that enamoured with the book, but I will note that it is, like \\"A Splendid Indiscretion\\" and a host of other Mansfield gems, a very well written and highly polished novel. The only reservation I have with \\"The Grand Passion\\" is that I still don't buy Matthew Lotherwood's sudden capitulation at the end of the novel. It just felt too rushed. He goes from cold fury, disillusionment and pain at how Tess has schemed to hurt him to completely giving in and forgiving her after just one impassioned speech from her. And while I know that Matthew would have forgiven her eventually and acknowledged that he still did love the totally single-minded, passionate and high-handed Tess, I didn't think that Mansfield made a good enough case for why it happened so very quickly one page from the end of the novel. On the whole, though, both these books are gems. And if you've found lately that the more recently published Regency-era romances have not quite come up to par, andthat they lack the polish, wit and effervesce that one expects from a Regency, I'd recommend you check out some of these wonderful reprints.	2005-07-27
148939:US	52830980	R316HIUJC8NZYH	0312319002	134275428	The Assassin's Touch: A Thriller (Sano Ichiro Novels)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	4 1/2 stars: a very gripping read	The tenth installment in the excellent and stellar Sano Ichiro mystery series set in 17th century Japan, \\"The Assassin's Touch\\" sees Sano having survived the struggle for power between his old foe, Lord Yanagiswa (the former Lord Chamberlain) and Shogun Takugawa's powerful cousin, Lord Matsudaira, to become Lord Chamberlain himself. But Sano's position is far from secure. He's quite new to the job and worries about making a mess of things. Also he's quite aware of the fact that a few of Yanagiswa's former allies remain in their powerful positions in the government, and that they feel resentment and envy at Sano's quick and unexpected rise to powerful, and are eagerly waiting for him to make a mistake. What Sano wouldn't give to be back at solving serious crimes against the regime and inexplicable murders! So that when Lord Masudaira asks Sano to investigate the mysterious death of chief of the shogun's intelligence service, Ejima Senzaemon, Sano eagerly takes up the case. <br /> <br />Over the past few weeks, quite a few of Matsudaira's cronies, whom he had put in positions of power have started dying -- seemingly of natural causes. But Matsudaira smells something fishy about their deaths. Especially since Yanagiswa's fallen allies are still rallying to his cause and have been causing a lot of chaos, death and unrest. When Sano's investigations lead him to discover that a very dangerous foe is darting in and out of Edo, slipping in and out of shadows in order to commit murder in a most unique and deadly way, Matsudaira insists that Sano quickly solve the mystery of these deaths and that he implicates one of Yanagiswa's former allies as being responsible for everything. And while Sano is eager to try his hand at solving these deaths, he is adamant about not fitting up a convenient scapegoat just to score points with Masudaira, much to Matsudaira's anger. With his position in court and his job in jeopardy, the last thing Sano needs to discover that the killer has nowearmarked him for death! Now, Sano must move very quickly in order to stop a ruthless killer and so save his job, his position and his life... <br /> <br />A fast paced and fairly suspenseful read from start to end, \\"The Assassin's Touch\\" made for engrossing reading and lived up to my expectations that it would be a good book. As usual the storyline was a clever one -- a mysterious and invisible killer who seems to be able to strike quickly at his powerful enemies; and that together with the historical details, atmosphere and vivid imagery, all contributed brilliantly to ensure that the novel was a very enjoyable and riveting read. I thought that the author's idea to make Sano's position as precarious as ever (now he has to deal with Lord Matsudaira instead of Lord Yangiswa, and he still finds himself squaring off against old enemies, anxious for his fall) even though he was now Lord Chamberlain of Japan was a good one, and added to the sense of immediacy and tension in the book. If I had any disappointments it was that the whole issue of Reiko's (Sano's wife) investigations. In the past, this has always been a source of contention between the two: Reiko wants to use her intelligence and skill to help Sano solve his cases, while Sano would rather his wife behave more like a traditional wife and leave such matters to himself and his men. In the past, my sympathies have always been with the clever and determined Reiko. This time around however, I must say that my sympathies were with Sano. Especially since Reiko, in spite of Sano's warning, continued to behave in a somewhat reckless manner (not her usual mode of behaviour though), and so ended up giving one of Sano's enemies ammunition against him. Really, this issue is becoming a little tiring, and I wish that the author would resolve it so that Reiko can carry on helping Sano without jeopardising his position. <br /> <br />All in all though, this was a truly fast paced, gripping and suspenseful mystery novel. The series in one of the best historical mystery series to be published, and this particular outing fitted in superbly with previous installments. A trifle violent perhaps, but still a good mystery and read. <br /> <br />	2005-07-25
156229:US	52830980	R2EVWO1TQY8QTK	0425203956	812871216	The Perfect Rake (Merridew Series)	Books	5	123	125	N	N	a definite keeper	Ever since I read \\"Tallie's Knight,\\" I've had an immense admiration for Anne Gracie. Here was an author who had managed to infuse her novel with romance, sensuality, tenderness and poignancy. I've always regretted that I have been unable to easily find her other romance novels, so that when I discovered that the first installment in a new series written by her was about to be published, I knew that I had to keep an eye out for this book. \\"The Perfect Knight\\" lived up to my every expectation -- here was a book full of tender romance, sensuality and poignancy, complete with a touch of the gothic. <br /> <br />Ever since their parents tragic death, the Merridew sisters have been living with their brutal and heartless grandfather, Lord Dereham. A man driven almost mad with bitterness and anger, Dereham has been beating his five granddaughters for years, as well as isolating them from society. Finally escaping from their mad grandfather, the Merridew sisters make for London and for their granduncle Oswald's house, where they hope that he will launch the elder sisters into society, and where they're devoutly counting on the second Merridew sister, Charity (who happens to be exceedingly beautiful) to contract an advantageous marriage. Their plans, however, hit a snag when granduncle Oswald insists that plain jane Prudence, as the eldest sister, make her come-out before her more beautiful sisters. At her wit's end, Prudence concocts an imaginary engagement to the hermit duke, the Duke of Dinstable. But once again, Prudence's plans hit a snag when she finds, through of a comedy of errors and mistaken identities (you really have to read the book to appreciate this plot gambit), she finds herself engaged in earnest (in her granduncle's mind at least) to the duke's rakish and sinfully handsome cousin, Lord Carradice. As Prudence tries to distance herself and protect her susceptible heart from this engaging rouge, a very smitten Lord Carradice tries to persuade the plain and courageous Prudence Merridew that he has fallen in love in earnest, and that she was fashioned solely for him. Will Lord Carradice succeed in his endeavours? Certainly the poor man has his work cut out for him... <br /> <br />\\"The Perfect Rake\\" turned out to be a stellar read, and is definitely going on my keeper shelf. I've always had a soft spot for novels where either the hero or heroine was considered to be plain and was quickly dismissed as not being up to snuff by the sharks that seemed to congregate at Almacks. So that \\"The Perfect Rake\\" was truly my cup of tea. The novel was a standout because of several factors -- good storyline, witty and humourous prose style, wonderful hero & heroine, the sensual heat that the hero & heroine generated, and in particular for the tenderness of the love that developed between Prudence and Carradice. But what really made \\"The Perfect Rake\\" a memorable romance novel for me, was the character of its sterling and totally endearing hero, Lord Carradice, and how the author portrayed his total captivation for the novel's heroine, Prudence. It's the kind of book that will make one sigh with satisfaction, and make for enjoyable rereading over the years. All in all, \\"The Perfect Rake\\" is a superb romance novel that shouldn't be missed, and is definitely worth both the cover price and touting as an excellent read. <br /> <br />	2005-07-20
158369:US	52830980	R2DBFAAZNL3AX7	0312342837	13832574	The Malevolent Comedy: An Elizabethan Theater Mystery Featuring Nicholas Bracewell (Elizabethan Theater Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	an entertaining and lively read	Amongst the many mystery series that Edward Marston (one of Paul Doherty's many pseudonyms) writes, the Nicholas Bracewell Elizabethan theatre mysteries are one of my favourites. Not so much for the mystery at hand, which is, most of the time really riveting and absorbing, but mainly because of the series' lively cast of characters and the vivid and colourful manner in which Mr. Marston brings the world of the Elizabethan theatre to life. <br /> <br />It's beginning to look as if the theatrical company, the Westfield's Men, is currently experiencing the worst of fortunes. Their resident playwright's, Edmund Hoode, creative juices seems to have dried up, while their bitterest rival, Banbury's Men, is riding high with their latest play, \\"Lamberto.\\" If things continue is they are, it could mean the end of Westfield's Men. So that when an upstart, young playwright, Saul Hibbert, presents the company with a play that has all the hallmarks of being a hit, actor-manager, Lawrence Firethorn, immediately snaps at the chance to make his company successful again. Only this time it looks as if he may have made a pact with the devil. For Saul Hibbert is a brash, grating and conceited individual who believes that he knows better than anyone else, and that his \\"superior\\" intellect entitles him to all sorts of liberties. And it isn't too long before he's antagonising most of the company -- Nicholas Bracewell, the company's book holder, especially. But when one of the troupe is poisoned while on stage, and a series of suspicious events begin to plague the company, Nicholas beings to wonder if someone just might have a serious objection to Hibbert's play, and just how far this person will go to see that the play is never performed again; or if some rival of the company is trying to shut them down. Nicholas is determined to protect his friends. But in order to do so he will have to knock heads with the very unpleasant Hibbert... <br /> <br />Entertaining and lively, \\"The Malevolent Comedy\\" was a treat to read from beginning to end. The mystery subplot is a very straightforward one, with very few surprising twists and turns; however, the author did provide us with a few red herring suspects, thus successfully keeping us guessing as to who was out to stop the play from being performed, and why. The fantastic bit about this book though, and what made it a very entertaining and fun read was how the author portrayed the book's regular characters -- the lively wit and camaraderie, and the humorous manner in which the players come up with a plan to end Edmund Hoode's dry streak, made for an enjoyable and beguiling read indeed. And while this particular installment did not compare quite so well with previous entries in the level of intricacy and suspense, \\"The Malevolent Comedy\\" still did make for a fine 4 star read, and one that I would heartily recommend to anyone looking for a good Elizabethan-era mystery novel to read.	2005-07-19
164841:US	52830980	R10ZUKH3JFF3KU	0743477723	732738771	One Night With a Prince (Royal Brotherhood, Book 3)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	a very satisfying read	His half-brothers, the Earl of Iversley and Viscount Draker, may have grown soft since their respective marriages and forgiven their royal sire his sins, but Gavin Bryne still holds onto the anger and contempt he feels for George, Prince of Wales, for his cruel and cowardly treatment of Bryne's mother. But when the Prince requests that Gavin help Christabel, the Marchioness of Haversham, regain property that her dead husband had wrongfully sold to Lord Stokely, Gavin agrees to help because he senses that there is more to the story than he's being told, and that this \\"property\\" just may give him the leverage he needs in order to make the Prince pay for the way he treated Byrne's mother. However, in order to do that he will have to work closely with the spirited and maddening Christabel, who just happens to affect Gavin in a way that no other woman ever has. Could the man, who vowed never to fall in love and marry, have finally met his match?  <br /> <br />Of the three novels in the Royal Brotherhood trilogy (\\"In the Prince's Bed,\\" \\"To Pleasure a Prince\\" & \\"One Night With a Prince\\"), this installment is definitely the best -- it has the best storyline of the three, and it is the most emotionally satisfying as well. It probably is the most sensually titillating as well (haven't read a scene like the one where Gavin and Christabel play strip whist in a while, and the scene with Gavin, Christabel and dressmaker was nothing to sneezed at either). And while the plot didn't exactly unfold at a breath-neck pace, it moved along at a steady and even pace with no rude starts and stops so that the overall effect was one of a smooth and continuous flow. This had the effect of making the read all the more pleasurable, and allowed us to \\"see\\" the mutual sexual attraction that Gavin and Christabel felt for each other flower into absolute love. However, while the depiction of the other characters felt disappointingly paper thin and followed stock-type lines, the author's portrayal ofthe hero and heroine was excellently done. Gavin, a self-made man was painted as intelligent, single-minded and driven, but who was also vulnerable and full of integrity -- in other words the kind of hero many romance readers would find thrilling and approve of wholeheartedly. While Christabel was portrayed as a strong-minded, quick tempered and resourceful young woman, who was takingly unaware of her feminine charms (again a character most readers would have found engaging). Thankfully neither Gavin nor Christabel possessed characteristics that marked them as having more hair than wit, and neither treated us to moments of high melodrama (a pet peeve of mine).  <br /> <br />Few authors can maintain most readers' interest for an entire series/trilogy; but Sabrina Jeffries did just that. She wrote three very different and very appealing novels centering on three half-brothers. Each book has been well written, and each book has been an enjoyable and absorbing read. But as every reviewer has noted so far, \\"One Night With a Prince\\" is definitely the best of the lot. It tied things up nicely and gave us the happily ever-after ending we were all rooting for. Very satisfying indeed.	2005-07-15
176956:US	52830980	R1BRFBMOBDKZOV	0755322967	823852904	The Chapel of Bones (Knights Templar)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	a good read	While this latest West Country mystery featuring Keeper of the King's Peace, Sir Baldwin Furnshill, and his good friend and fellow crime solver, Bailiff Simon Puttock, may not be as suspenseful or as edgy as previous West Country installments, it still did make for a rather engrossing and compelling read. One piece of advice though: read author Michael Jecks' note at the very beginning of the book carefully because the murder of Chaunter Walter de Lecchelade at Exeter Cathedral in 1283 lies at the center of \\"The Chapel of Bones,\\" and would help many readers understand better what's going on in the earlier chapters. <br /> <br />In 1283, the Chaunter of Exeter Cathedral, Walter de Leccehlade is brutally murdered, along with the churchmen loyal to him, by churchmen who opposed him and by certain townsmen who felt hostile towards him. Some of the churchmen involved in the murder were punished, while others kept quiet and melted into the background. The townsmen involved were never betrayed by their ecclesiastical accomplices, and so they too blended back into the background, even though the then mayor of Exeter was hanged by Edward I as punishment for their crime. And for the next forty years, everyone went on with their lives and tried hard to forget that fateful and awful night. But now, in 1323, as the cathedral is being rebuilt, and three men who had left Exeter after the dreadful events of 1283 are back again in the city of their childhood. One of the men is the mason, Thomas, who had fled Exeter in guilt over his part in the murder; the other man is Friar Nicholas, who had left after being so grievously injured during the attack; while the third man is the priory's new corrodian, William, who left Exeter to serve Edward I. Many of the townsmen who had taken part in the murder and who had never left are not happy to see these men back again. And when one of the townsmen, the wealthy saddler Henry Potell, is slain on Cathedral grounds, both Sir Baldwin and Simon (summoned to help discover the murderer) naturally begin to wonder if Potell's murder is linked to the events of 1283, or if Potell, who seems to have been in the middle of two disputes with a rich German client and with his old friend, joiner Joel Lytell, was murdered over something else. But when another man who was involved in the 1283 killing is also found murdered, Sir Baldwin and Simon realise that what their dealing with is someone with a secret to hide and who is willing to kill in order to protect that secret... <br /> <br />Even though the plot was a little straightforward, with very few surprising twists or turns, \\"The Chapel of Bones\\" still made for an enjoyable read. As usual the author has written a book that is rich in ambiance, colour and historical detail. And the character development was brilliantly done as well -- each character, no matter how small was vividly and credibly rendered. I especially liked the manner in which the author showed us how the guilt that many of the characters felt over the wrongs that they had committed, coloured and affected their lives. And if I was a little disappointed that the mystery subplot was not a very perplexing one, Michael Jecks' stark accounting of how guilt and loss affects people more than made \\"The Chapel of Bones\\" a good and worthwhile read. <br /> <br />(Why, though, has this series been subtitled a \\"Knights Templar\\" mystery? The Knights Templar don't figure into this series at all -- or at least not since \\"The Last Templar,\\" and that was about 18 mysteries ago, where Sir Baldwin put his past firmly behind him. It seems rather strange to bring up the Knights Templar at this stage. Is it a marketing ploy?)	2005-07-07
183542:US	52830980	R3IZYILTXW1QE	0553803891	364163128	The Water Room (Bryant & May Mysteries)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	a riveting read	The genius of this series, I believe, lies in the fact that the author has taken the traditional police procedural genre and completely turned it around on its head. To begin with we have the Peculiar Crimes Unit -- not your usual conventional police department dealing with robberies and murder but rather a unit that has been currently assigned to deal with the more troublesome, less cut and dried cases that seem to be heading no where, and that uses (on occasion) witches, psychics and academics to help solve crime. And then we have Bryant and May, who are also not the usual fare (the Brit detectives who simmer with intelligence, neuroses and sex appeal), but who happen to be 70-something police officers who should have been retired years ago, who are fully capable of doing their jobs and who relish doing them. In \\"The Water House\\" Bryant and May are back in full form as they enthusiastically delve back into the work, setting up their new offices (the previous one had been destroyed in a bomb explosion), and taking a stab at solving crimes that other police officers have either overlooked or else washed they hands off.    Kallie Owen is terribly afraid that her relationship with her longtime boyfriend, Paul, is on its last legs. Money is short and Paul (who is in the music business and who is facing redundancy) is expressing the need to travel and see the world (without Kallie at his side) before he grows too old. Desperate for advice and a friendly ear, Kallie goes to visit an old school friend, Heather Allen, who persuades her to buy a house on her street (Balaklava Street) that's just gone on the market. The old lady, Ruth Singh, who had lived in the almost decrepit house has suddenly died, and her brother wants to make a quick sale so that he can immigrate to Australia. Carried away by Heather's enthusiasm, Kallie succumbs and buys the house. Except that things don't really work out as she had hoped. The house needs a lot of work, and this is pushing her and Paul even further apart. Add to that the rumours surrounding Ruth's unexplained and sudden death, and the unnatural interest that the Peculiar Crimes Unit seems to be taking in Ruth's death, and Kallie is beginning to wonder if she has done the right thing to buy the house. And when Kallie begins to sense a sinister presence in her house, she really beings to wonder if she's about to have a nervous breakdown or if there is something (or someone) truly evil haunting Balaklava Street...    This is the second Bryant and May, Peculiar Crimes Unit mystery novel, and it proved to be as quirky, absorbing and enjoyable a read as the first book in the series, \\"Full Dark House.\\" Fast paced and with a very intriguing storyline, \\"The Water House\\" held my interest from beginning to end. It was a slightly more complex read than the usual police procedural, but it really was well worth the sticking out factor. Especially since the author had managed to make the book less dense by employing a lighter and slightly humourous prose style -- this really helped to keep things riveting from start to finish. So with a clever storyline, good prose style, excellent pacing and chock full of intriguing historical information (I especially enjoyed all the bits of history about the course of the English underground river system), Christopher Fowler's \\"The Water Room\\" can definitely be classified as a worthwhile and excellent read that should not be missed.	2005-07-02
185118:US	52830980	R1RILKVERTRL7C	0749006463	88925120	Death at St. James's Palace (John Rawlings Mystery)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	some "niggles" but still a riveting read	It's been two years since apothecary John Rawlings was last involved in murder or criminal investigation (\\"Death in the West Wind\\"), and while he has settled down happily into married life and making his business prosper, he cannot deny that he really misses the thrill he had when he was helping John Fielding (the blind magistrate of Bow Street) and his runners investigate a crime. So that when an opportunity to become involved in another perplexing case offers itself, John enthusiastically throws himself whole-heartedly into the happy work of tracking down witnesses and checking alibis on John Fielding's behalf. <br /> <br />In \\"Death at St. James's Place,\\" John Fielding is about to be knighted for all his hard work. For the investiture at the palace, Fielding is allowed to bring along three guests. And because his wife is indisposed, Fielding asks John Rawlings, as a close friend who has helped him solve a great many crimes, to take her place at his side. John is moved and excited -- to be invited to step inside St. James's, to see the young king and to stand by his good friend's side as he receives this honour... But the day becomes memorable in an unexpected way when after the investiture, another recipient, George Goward, falls down the palace's great staircase to his death. Everyone thinks that Goward lost his balance and fell, but the newly knighted Sir John Fielding believes otherwise. And he asks Rawlings to help him investigate Goward's death. Rawlings' investigations will lead him to discover certain unpleasant truths about the dead man and his widow, and surprisingly to Brompton Park School which seems to breed bullies and hooligans, and finally to the unappealing and shocking habit that British aristocrats have for farming out unwanted babies and children... <br /> <br />Deryn Lake's John Rawlings mystery series is one of my favourites, and is always an auto-buy for me. And perhaps it is because it is a favourite, that I'm able to overlook those thingsthat irritated the previous reviewer so much. One thing to keep in mind when reading the later John Rawlings installments is that Rawlings greatest love was the flamboyant and beautiful actress Coralie Clive, who chose her profession over a life of domesticity with Rawlings. And while Rawlings truly does love his young wife, Emilia, pretty and intelligent Emilia is quite the antithesis of the vibrant, full bodied and flamboyant women Rawlings is naturally attracted to. Another thing to remember is that Emilia fully understands and accepts her husband's fascination with solving murders, and supports him completely in endeavour to assist Sir John Fielding.  <br /> <br />However, even though one can always be assured of a good and entertaining read with any one of the books in this excellent series, I have to own that John Rawlings was not in top form in this particular installment. Perhaps it was because it had been a while since he was involved in any investigation, or perhaps it was because he was experiencing a fear that he was becoming sober and staid with his new middle-class life and approaching fatherhood, but whatever the reason, certain obvious facts about the case completely escape Rawlings' notice, and he jumps to certain conclusions that beggar belief. On the other hand, this was a truly excellent story. The plotting was flawless and the suspense, wonderfully sustained. As usual, the period details was sumptuous and brilliantly detailed. So that all in all, in spite of the few reservations I had about Rawlings' obtuseness, \\"Death at St. James's Place\\" was still an engrossing and riveting read. <br /> <br />	2005-06-30
186009:US	52830980	R1ZB8KVXSRCW7G	0312328575	331190766	The Russian Hill Murders (Sarah Woolson Mysteries)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	a splendidly absorbing read	Shirley Tallman delivers a splendidly intriguing and suspenseful follow-up to \\"The Nob Hill Murders\\" in this second Sarah Woolson mystery novel, \\"The Russian Hill Murders.\\" Definitely, this is a series to look out for! <br /> <br />When first a member of the new Women's and Children's Hospital, and then someone else who vehemently opposed the hospital's existence suddenly die, Sarah Woolson, San Francisco's first female lawyer, is intrigued and perplexed. The authorities dismiss both deaths as accidental, but Sarah has a feeling that there is something more to both deaths. However, she's too busy trying to help a client collect damages for a wrongful death suit, as well as having to put up with the bad tempered crochets of her hostile employer. And then the hospital's accountant dies under highly suspicious circumstances. This time there is evidence that the man was poisoned. And because he had had a very acrimonious relationship with the hospital's hot tempered Chinese cook, the police immediately jump to the conclusion that the cook is guilty of poisoning the accountant. And when they find the poison in the kitchen, they immediately arrest the man for murder. Sarah cannot believe that the cook has been arrested on such a slender piece of evidence, and fears that racial prejudice may at the root of the cook's arrest. So that when Li Ying, San Francisco's most powerful Tong lord whom Sarah met in \\"The Nob Hill Murders\\" requests that she defend the cook during the criminal trial, Sarah readily agrees. And even though Sarah realises that she has to contend not only with the racial prejudice of the jury, but also with the sexist opinions of the court and the jury, she's determined to do the best for her client -- and in this instance it means that she will have to discover the identity of the real murderer herself before it's too late! <br /> <br />I enjoyed Shirley Tallman's \\"The Russian Hill Murders\\" so much that I had to finish it in one sitting. The plot unfolded at a brisk and continuous pace; and the manner in which the author bridged both of Sarah's cases, cleverly done. Also nicely done was how the author maintained the suspense and how she portrayed San Francisco, both its people and the town, of the late 1800s. But what really made this novel a stellar one is the author's vivid and credible characterisation of her heroine, Sarah Woolson, and how she fitted the mystery around Sarah's stalwart character: a  woman who believes strongly in the equality of sexes as well as the races, and who is not afraid to fight for what she believes in or to right a wrong. And it is this strong sense of justice and fair play that made \\"The Russian Hill Murders\\" a wonderful and absorbing read, and made me root for Sarah right to the end.	2005-06-30
192318:US	52830980	R3SNB1ZUXKB6BV	0451213726	76828318	The Wagered Bride (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	3	7	N	N	starts off well, and then...	While I did not find Teresa McCarthy's \\"The Wagered Bride\\" to be as horrible a read as some reviewers have suggested, it wasn't that stellar of a read either. To begin with, the main plot was a much used one -- aristocrat who looses heavily at the gambling tables to a cit, is forced to consider marriage to the daughter of a self same cit -- with practically no variation or qualification on this very common theme.     When wealthy cit, William Shelby, wins Creighton Hall from Lord Stephen Clearbrook in a high stakes card game, he offers the young aristocrat a way out of his predicament: agree to marry Shelby's eldest daughter, Elizabeth, and the deeds to Creighton Hall will be his again. For Lord Stephen this poses a bit of a dilemma. Creighton Hall used to be his mother's childhood home, and Stephen is loathed to let his family know that he has lost it. And there is the fact that Lord Stephen has vowed to marry only the lady he'd be in love with (presently, it is the beautiful Lady Odette), and who would, obviously, return his love, and you can see just what kind of bind Lord Stephen has found himself in! But Lord Stephen soon discovers that his opposition to Shelby's plans are nothing compared to Elizabeth Shelby's. A young woman of strong opinions, Elizabeth also wants to marry for love only, and cannot bare the thought of marrying a gentleman who wants her only for her father's money. And she already has a paragon of virtue in mind for a husband, Mr. Femmington. What Elizabeth doesn't know is that her beau is a rake and a cad (some readers may recognise Femmington from the author's first book, \\"The Rejected Suitor\\"). So that when Lord Stephen realises who it is that Elizabeth has lost her heart to, he resolves to save Elizabeth from herself in spite of Elizabeth's demands that he stay out of her affairs. Daggers drawn, these two stubborn people soon discover that there are certain things that about each other that fascinate and tantalise. But exactly where is this unexpected attraction leading them?    For me, \\"The Wagered Bride\\" started off well -- that is, in spite of the author's rather frantic prose style (everyone was constantly talking at each other, but very little of substance was ever really said) -- until I realised two things: 1) that Millicent, Elizabeth's younger sister, was beginning to annony me quite a bit (she was either always blabbing too much, eavesdropping or else treating everyone to some dramatic scene or the other); and 2) that the author had made use of the big misunderstanding as a plot device a tad too often. (And while I won't go into my pet peeve about very modern phrases and language, is 'your dukeness' a legitimate way to address a duke?) Elizabeth as a heroine, I rather liked in spite of her unfortunate taste for cads. And while Lord Stephen was the stereotypical Regency hero, he was rather likable as well. Unfortunately, the novel also unwound in fits and starts, and lacked that smooth and cohesive feel yuo'd expect a well polished novel to possess. So that all in all, I'd rate \\"The Wagered Bride\\" as a 2 1/2 star read.	2005-06-24
200014:US	52830980	R1W4R1ARYQNBBW	0758207816	836860773	Shoes To Die For (Jaine Austen Mysteries)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	3 1/2 stars: an entertaing read	If you're in the market for a lighthearted and enjoyable read, you'll definitely find it in Laura Levine's latest Jaine Austen installment, \\"Shoes to Die For.\\" It may not be the most perplexing and suspenseful thing you read this year, but I do think that it will rate as one of the more amusing ones. <br /> <br />Jaine's neighbour, Lance, is between boyfriends and feeling bored. The solution: to glamourise the fashion-challenged Jaine. And against her better judgement, Jaine agrees to allow Lance to \\"spiff\\" her up. A three thousand dollar Prada suit and an expensive haircut later, and Jaine is looking very polished and quite glamourous. But the best part is that because of Lance's boredom, Jaine just might have landed a very lucrative assignment writing an ad for Passions, Lance's favourite fashionable clothing boutique. But when Jaine arrives early one morning to pitch her ideas, she finds Passions most detested employee, Frenchie, dead, stabbed in the neck with one of her own stilettos. And when another Passions employee, Becky, whom Jaine rather likes, ends up on the police's suspect list, Jaine finds herself, once again, donning her detective hat in order to hunt for Frenchie's real murderer.  <br /> <br />\\"Shoes to Die For\\" was a nice, uncomplicated and amusing read. The mystery wasn't the most complex or the most intriguing I'd ever read, but Laura Levine's light and breezy prose style made it quite the entertaining read. I, especially enjoyed the colourful and wacky (no other way to describe it) e-mail exchanges that Jaine had with both her parents. The only thing that annoyed after a while was the author's penchant for stating that Jaine had said or done something and then taking it back, and letting us know that Jaine hadn't really acted that way. While this was initially humorous, it lost its charm when it occurred every other page. All in all though, if you're looking for a bright breezy read, that's full of gentle sarcastic humour and loads of fun, you'll want to read \\"Shoes to Die For.\\" A good 3 1/2 star read.	2005-06-18
205522:US	52830980	R239PVFR8ALFFU	0743482255	902204553	Slaying is Such Sweet Sorrow (Far Wychwood Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	an excellent read	It should have been an occasion for great celebration for Catherine Penny: her gentle, scholarly son-in-law, Peter, is about to be named head of faculty of non-Shakespearean Elizabethan Drama department at Oxford's Mercy College. Except that her faithless ex-husband, Quin, who broke her heart when he left her for his younger secretary, has decided to attend the ceremony with that woman! Catherine is not sure if she can be in the same country with Quin without bursting a blood vessel, but she's agreed to try for her daughter's (Emily) and for Peter's sakes. But on the night that the announcement of headship is to be made, Edgar Stone -- a pompous sarcastic and detestable character, known for his emotional cruelty towards his wife, his womanising ways and his great dislike for Peter -- is named head instead of Peter, much to everyone's dismay. And when hours later, Stone is found murdered in his house with Peter caught looming over the dead body. The police automatically assume that Peter had murdered Stone out of professional jealousy and anger; especially since they had received an emergency 'phone call from Stone claiming that Peter was at his door threatening him with a knife, just before he was found dead. Peter's solicitor wants Peter to plead temporary insanity; but Catherine fears that such a move would spell the end of Peter's career even if he gets off. And so determined to help Peter and Emily, Catherine decides to do some investigating of her own in order to unmask the read murderer. After all a great many people hated the detestable Edgar Stone! Now if only she can keep her attention focused on the investigation at hand, instead of her anger at Quin... <br /> <br />I, also thought that Slaying is Such Sweet Sorrow\\" was a much better mystery novel than \\"Arson and Old Lace.\\" And isn't that how it should be? The second novel surpassing the first? Not that \\"Arson and Old Lace\\" was a shabby book. To the contrary: it was a fantastic read. It's just that I thought that Patricia Harwin had got the proportions interspersing her heroine's private life with the mystery at hand, much better in this installment. Catherine Penny's inner turmoil at having to come face to face with the faithless Quin and his middle aged floozy, and her confused emotions where Quin was concerned, was nicely juxtaposed with the mystery subplot of who murdered the unlikable Stone and framed Peter, perfectly, without one subplot hijacking the other. Both subplots were vital to this story and I was in awe with the competency with which the author handled them. Add this to the wonderfully vivid and affectionate manner in which she brought Oxford University with its deer park and spires to life; the skillful manner in which she fleshed out her characters (both primary and secondary); and the masterful manner in which she kept things quietly suspenseful and constantly humming, and you have a book worth touting as an excellent read. I'm really looking forward to the next Far Wychwood mystery. <br />	2005-06-13
208061:US	52830980	R2520EAZ15755H	031233723X	680498206	SPQR IX: The Princess and the Pirates	Books	5	19	19	N	N	a wonderfully entertaining and engrossing read.	The only warning I would issue regarding \\"The Princess and the Pirates (SPQR IX)\\" by John Maddox Roberts is that it is not much of a \\"straight\\" mystery novel in spite of the fact that it features a murder. In fact, it reads more like an adventure novel. On the other hand, if you're looking for an entertaining read, that is written in a witty and sardonic manner, and which is full of interesting and fascinating historical details, you're bound to enjoy \\"The Princess and the Pirates\\" -- though, truth to tell, I'm not sure about the title as Cleopatra (the princess) is more of a colourful feature than the main focus of the book. <br /> <br />After having served two years as an aedile, one would have thought that the next step in Decius Caecilius Metellus' career would be to run for preatorship. Decius' family, however, have other ideas. They feel that Decius hasn't spent enough time doing his military duty. But rather than send him back to Gaul (and to Julius Caesar, whom the Metelli is currently leaning away from), they've decided to send Decius to Cyprus in order to root out the pirates who have been plaguing the Mediterranean. And so Decius his slave, Hermes, and a sorry navy of three liburnian complete with an inadequate crew of sailors and marines soon find themselves in Cyprus, a beautiful island that once used to belong to the Egyptians but which now belongs to Rome, where things are even in a more sorry state than even Decius had expected. To begin with, the island seems to have been stripped of nearly every ship and most of its navy.  <br /> <br />Determined to carry out his duties, Decius is soon busy seeing to the refitting of his three ships (to make them battle ready) and hiring extra hands (some of them ex-pirates) to man the ships and act as marines. Fortunately for Decius, also in Cyprus at this time is the young Egyptian princess, Cleopatra, who graciously volunteers her ship into service. Not so fortunately for Decius is the young princess' determination to come along for the fun of hunting pirates. And just when Decius beings to think that he will be able to pull off this enterprise quite successfully and quickly, his host, the governor of Cyprus, Aulus Silvanus, is found murdered. Now it is up to Decius to bring Silvanus' murderer to justice. Getting involved in another murder investigation is a distraction that Decius cannot afford right now, but he is honour bound to avenge Silvanus because he was a guest at the dead man's house. And then there is the suspicious behaviour of Silvanus' good friend, the exiled general Gabinius, who seems a little too eager to take charge and keep Decius out of the murder investigation. Is Gabinius trying to grab the glory for solving the murder or is he trying to cover up something? Deeply suspicious, Decius is determined to keep an eye on Gabinius's activities, and soon finds himself spread thin with no allies when he realises that even the Princess Cleopatra could have had a hand in murdering Silvanus for political reasons of her own... <br /> <br />\\"The Princess and the Pirates\\" was an incredibly engrossing and entertaining read. John Maddox Roberts does a first rate job of painting in a thumbnail historical sketch of what was occurring in Rome and with her allies at the time that the novel is taking place -- trade treaties and the reshuffling of power both outside and within Rome (esp amongst her warring generals) were engagingly and comprehensively detailed, and in such a dry and cutting manner that you really are in for a first rate read if you decide to invest time and money for this book. So that even though the murder mystery plot was a bit light weight, the entertaining prose style together with the swift pacing really did make \\"The Princess and the Pirates\\" an engrossing page turner.  <br /> <br />(I'm not sure as to why John Maddox Roberts' SPQR series would be compared with Steven Saylor's Sub Rosa series. Both series may take place in ancient Rome around the sametime, but each series comes across as being quite different because of the differing tone that they are written in. Saylor's series is more serious and poignant, whereas Roberts' series, while dealing with serious matters is written in tones that are sarcastic and irreverent, thus making it something of a lighthearted read. Both series are excellent; but both are different enough not to have to suffer from unwarranted comparisons.) <br /> <br />	2005-06-11
209957:US	52830980	R2RY600PGLEYST	0727862162	223772112	The Burgundian's Tale (Roger the Chapman Mysteries)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	an excellent read	Kate Sedley has penned yet another wonderfully page-turnning and riveting read with this latest Roger the chapman installment. One of my favourite mystery series, it's always a treat for me discover that there is a new Roger the chapman mystery for me to sit down and loose myself in, and \\"The Burgundian's Tale\\" lived up to my every expectation of an engaging and suspenseful read. <br /> <br />Margaret, the Dowager Duchess of Burgundy and King Edward IV of England's younger sister, is in England for a visit. And London is bustling with excitement as the merchants and townspeople vigorously prepare for the influx of royalty, aristocrats, visiting Burgundians and their assorted retinues. In the midst of all this the murder of young man, Fulk Quantrell, would probably have gone unremarked by many, except that Fulk also happens to be the Dowager Duchess' favourite male attendant. And so Richard, the Duke of Gloucester, asks his trusted servant, Roger the chapman, to investigate Fulk's murder. Fulk, it turns out was the only son of Duchess Margaret's childhood companion and favourite seamtress-in-chief, Veronica Quantrell. Recently, however, Veronica had passed away, and Fulk had asked permission to come to England in order to acquaint his aunt, Judith, with her twin's death. Judith had married well and advantageously, and although she has several dependents that she had promised to make her heirs, all this goes out the window when she meets Fulk and falls for his charms. Could one of the displaced heirs have murdered Fulk out of anger and greed? Seemingly, this should be a rather simple case for Roger to sort out. Except that the more inquiries that Roger makes, the more opaque things become -- Fulk was not the sunny, charming youth his aunt or the Duchess claim him to be, and at the back of everything, is an impression that Roger is getting of something truly evil and sinister lurking, something that Roger senses he has to unveil. <br /> <br />For Roger, the request toinvestigate Fulk's murder couldn't have come at a better time. Just recently, he and his wife, Adela, had suffered the loss of their newborn child. Roger's grief, however, was also tinged with relief because now there would be one less mouth to feed. And this feeling, which he was unsuccessful at hiding from Adela, has led to an estrangement between the couple. So that Roger was almost ready to go on one of his selling trips in order to put some distance between him and Adela when the Duke's summons came. But this new case, Roger senses, is not only perplexing, but also quite dangerous, and he will have to keep his wits about him if he is to come home to Adela whole of body and mind when it is all finished... <br /> <br />I couldn't resist finishing \\"The Burgundian's Tale\\" in one sitting. It was swiftly paced, totally engaging and wholly suspenseful, and was written with such skill and command that time flew, pages turned and I had finished the book before I even knew it. And I had meant to savour this treat over a few days!! For readers not yet in the know, Kate Sedley's Roger the chapman series is not to be missed. It's vivid and colourful and the author does an excellent job of portraying life in late 15th century England, from both the point-of-view of the humbler folk as well as the aristocrats. She has been successfully able to do this by making her protagonist, a humble chapman, who also happens to mix, now and then with the more powerful men of the realm (like the Duke of Gloucester). Add to all this authentic historical detail some really nifty and suspenseful mysteries, and you have a series that can rely on to deliver some truly excellent reads. And \\"The Burgundian's Tale\\" makes a fine addition to this wonderful series. <br />	2005-06-09
210941:US	52830980	R388JIOFBHLAJB	0425202607	37240527	Murder on Lenox Hill (Gaslight Mysteries)	Books	4	33	36	N	N	a well crafted and engrossing read	Victoria Thompson's Gaslight Mystery series is, definitely, one of the (if not the) best American historical mystery series around. And if you're in the market for a good mystery novel with wonderful historical detail and a nifty storyline, you'll definitely enjoy \\"Murder on Lennox Hill.\\" <br /> <br />When midwife and nurse, Sarah Brandt, is asked to go the Linton house on Lennox Hill, she thinks that she's about to be asked to take care of another well-off expectant matron and she's grateful for the opportunity to add a well paying client to her files. But the Lintons, who turn out to be a much older couple, have actually requested Sarah's help for a much more serious matter: they fear that their sweet but simple-minded daughter, Grace, may be with child, and they want Sarah to put their minds at rest by examining the child. A brief examination confirms everyone's worst fears: Grace is almost six months pregnant. But how did Grace, who was never left on her own, and who was always in the company of either her mother or her maid, become pregnant? It is a mystery that Sarah is determined to solve and to put a stop to the monster who took advantage of Grace before he strikes again. And to do that Sarah enlists the help of her friend, police detective Frank Malloy, and carefully begins to make herself part of the Linton's circle of friends. <br /> <br />Frank, in the meantime, has been approached by Sarah's father on another matter. Part of New York's upper class, Felix Decker had disapproved of Sarah's marriage to Dr. Thomas Brandt, and of her work as a midwife and nurse. And when Brandt was murdered, the Deckers had assumed that Sarah would come home and take her place in society again. Except that Sarah chose to continue her work and to seek justice for Brandt's murder. Now, Decker wants to hire Frank to find Brandt's murderer. Decker has a letter that claims that Brandt was an unsavoury character. And he thinks that if Brandt's murderer is found, all of Brandt's crimes will come to light, and that a disillusioned Sarah will finally come to her senses and come home, and that she will also turn her back on Frank for having revealed Brandt to be the man he actually is (Decker disapproves completely of Sarah's friendship with Frank). And while Frank knows all this, he also realises that he is the only one who can do a proper job, find out the real truth about Brandt (and not just what Decker wants to hear) and so minimise the damage done to Sarah. And so Frank finds himself, much against his will, working for Felix Decker. That is until Sarah involves him in the Linton case, and that investigation leads both Sarah and Frank into an area of depravity that even they were unprepared for... <br /> <br />My first advice is not to read the blurb on the dustwrapper. It gives away almost three quarters of the plot! Why do publishers do this? Don't they realise that for most mystery addicts, plot development, with all its many (or few) twists and turns are an important feature? Because Victoria Thompson's Gaslight mysteries are an auto-buy, I didn't read the blurb and so was saved from disappointment. I only read it when I was in the middle of writing the review -- hence the rant. Ranting aside, \\"Murder on Lennox Hill\\" was a good read. The storyline was an intriguing one that developed smoothly and unfolded at a good and constant pace. And the character portrayals were so well done as to seem almost lifelike. The period detail was brilliant as well, and added a nice background atmosphere to the novel at hand. And while there weren't too many plot twists, when it did come, it really did liven up the book enormously. Also adding to the complexity of tone was how Thompson filtered in the mystery of Thomas Brandt's murder, showing us how important it was to both Frank and Sarah that truth about the murder came out. All in all, \\"Murder on Lennox Hill\\" was a truly superb read, and one that should not be missed.	2005-06-09
212446:US	52830980	R18X5BIY7F6ITV	0451215605	328876018	The Whispering Rocks (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	4 1/2 stars: lacking in romance, but still a splendid read	A \\"rewrite\\" of an earlier gothic novel (\\"Mannerby's Lady\\"), The Whispering Rocks\\" still read more like a gothic than a Regency-era romance novel. It had all the necessary ingredients: a heroine who finds herself almost friendless in a hostile and remote environment, people who are not what they seem, mysterious goings-on, violent death, and an evil that seems hell-bent on menacing the heroine...    When improverished Sarah Jane Stratford's immensely wealthy natural father (yes, she is illegitimate) seeks her out, she is initially overjoyed. But she soon learns that her autocratic and selfish father had a reason for seeking her out, and that is to marry her off to her oafish cousin, Edward, who is also Sir Peter's heir. Disheartened that Sir Peter only wanted her in order to bring Edward to heel, the vulnerable Sarah Jane soon falls for the blandishments of a practiced rake, and ends up in the middle of a scandal. Outraged, Sir Peter packs her off to Mannerby in the heart of Dartmoor country, under the strict supervision of Paul Ransome. And Sarah Jane, who had hoped to start anew and to make new friends, soon learns to her dismay that her host, Paul Ransome, his beautiful sister, Melissa, and nearly everyone at Mannerby, seems to disapprove of and dislike her immensely. And as Sarah Jane's feelings of isolation and despair grow because of the surrounding cold, bleak and ghostly Dartmoor landscape, so too does her feelings of oppression because of the beautiful Melissa's cold and malicious behaviour...    I enjoyed \\"The Whispering Rocks\\" immensely in spite of the fact that it was not really a typical Regency-era romance novel. Nor was it much of a romance novel either as you never really get the feeling that there was much of a \\"connection\\" between Sarah Jane and the hero. In fact you'd almost feel as if Sarah Jane ends up with the hero because he's the last man left standing so to speak! Perhaps if there hadn't been a rush to tie things up neatly and have a happilyever-after ending, things would have seemed a little bit more romantic. Especially if the author had left us with a promise of a romance developing between her hero and heroine, instead of merely presenting us with things fait accompli. On the other hand \\"The Whispering Rock\\" was a very polished and well written gothic novel, full of atmosphere and suspense. And Sandra Heath's vivid and superb descriptions of the Dartmoor countryside will inspire many to want to set off for England at once! So even though it was not much of a romance novel, \\"The Whispering Rocks\\" still rates as a splendid and worthwhile read.	2005-06-07
216713:US	52830980	R39AUY1T7TP7KE	0821778218	467619277	Love of My Life (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	something very different from the usual	After having moaned and whined about how about how many Regecy-era romance novel seems to possess the same oft-used plot-line, I was almost giddy with glee to discover that Meredith Bond's \\"Love of My Life\\" not only possessed a storyline that was a little out ordinary, but that she had also (somehow) managed to give it all the hallmarks of a traditional Regency-era romance novel. <br /> <br />When Miss Cassandra Renwick is cruelly made a laughingstock by the \\"gentleman\\" she had fallen in love while making her debut into London society, she decides to pack her bags and leave for India where her parents reside. India, or rather Calcutta, where her father works for the Governor-General acts like a balm to Cassandra's bruised soul, and she's soon happily drinking in the sights, sounds and culture of a country so different from her own. Only two things grate: her mother's snobbish attitude towards the Indians and her insistence at throwing every eligible young man at Cassandra. For a young lady who has decided to have nothing to do with any man, her mother's propensity to harp on her need to marry at once and advantageously at that, is almost too much to bear. Especially when this young lady is quite fascinated by another young man, one that her mother deems totally ineligible, the Eurasian, Julian Ritchie... <br /> <br />I had found Meredith Bond's previous two novels to be pleasantly average reads. So that I was really quite blown over to discover that \\"Love of My Life\\" was really something rather special. The main plot device that \\"Love of My Life\\" hinges on is the revenge plot, but the splendidly vivid and colourful manner with which the author paints life and culture in India, even as she baldly exposes the many prejudices that the English had and the injustices they practiced was not only very well done but also added a much appreciated tone and texture to the novel, lifting the novel above the fare we usually get from this genre. The truly important factor about this novel, however, and what makes it rather special, is the author's portrayal of the heroine of the piece, Cassandra Renwick. Though young, Cassandra possesses a maturity and kindliness of spirit that almost belies her youth (especially when this is contrasted with her mother's snobbish and pushing ways), and I liked that Cassandra's desire to learn more about India and her people had little to do with the attraction she felt for Julian. Julian, on the other hand, was a little bit more difficult to take to in spite of the fact that one really does feel for the man for all the prejudices and slights he has suffered because of his plans of revenge that involve the warm hearted Cassandra.  <br /> <br />A fast read that was evenly paced, \\"Love of My Life\\" managed to remain a \\"light\\" read in spite of its heavy matter. I enjoyed it thoroughly and would recommend it to any Regency-era romance fan who's looking for a good read that is a little different.	2005-06-04
217662:US	52830980	R3K9OOEDGZ223C	0345461215	809982314	The Seduction of an English Scoundrel: A Novel (The Boscastles)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	an ok read: not all that singular or special	I think that I probably belong to a small (and unhappy) minority of one that didn't think that Jillian Hunter's \\"The Seduction of an English Scoundrel\\" was all that special. To being with the plot premise was an oft used one, with few variations. Lady Jane is left standing at the altar (and why exactly is she waiting at the altar for her groom? Shouldn't she have been waiting in the vestry or some small room until he showed up so that she could walk down the aisle to the groom who would have been waiting at the altar?). Her groom is missing, and as a jilted bride, her reputation is now tarnished. Enter the hero, Grayson Boscastle, the Marquess of Sedgecroft (the groom's cousin) and head of the Boscastle family, who moved by Lady Jane's composure and her trim derriere, decides to repair Lady Jane's social standing by appearing to court her. Grayson Boscastle is also trying to live down his rather fast past, and as head of the Boscastle family wants to start giving his rackety siblings a better example. Except that when we're first introduced to Grayson, he'd decided to invite a few of his discarded mistresses to his cousin's wedding. Exactly what sort of \\"reformed\\" behaviour is this? So much for wanting to set a better example for his siblings! Grayson's notion that repairing Lady Jane's reputation, however, involves him enjoying a bit of sensual pleasure with Lady Jane -- never mind that his idea of flirtation actually makes her more of a byword than before! But these were all just minor irritations for me because Jillian Hunter does create quite a bit of sizzling sensual heat between Lady Jane and Grayson, thus making nearly every reader really enjoy this hero & heroine pairing and the romance that is unfolding before everyone's eyes. And the fact that she also makes Grayson appear rather vulnerable now and then was quite the masterstroke as well. My main problem (aside from the modernisms) with the novel lay in what happens once Grayson learns the awful truth, andthe course of action he takes to teach Lady Jane a lesson. That he actually gets the bulk of her family to go along with this bizarre plan beggared belief and credulity. And that Lady Jane, once she cottons onto what's going on reacts quite mildly was completely unbelievable as well.  <br /> <br />Jillian Hunter is quite a talented writer, who is able to create characters that fascinate and tantalise. For example, even though we get on a few glimpses of Chloe Boscastle (Grayson's troubled sister) and her brother, Heath, I'm actually looking forward to reading their stories when they're issued this summer. Even the other characters who get a brief mention, like Lady Jane's two sisters, and Grayson's other siblings begged for stories of their own as well. I can only hope that for my sake, the heroes of \\"The Love Affair of an English Lord\\" & \\"The Wedding Night of an English Rogue\\" involves the gentlemen behaving in a less doltish manner.	2005-06-03
218223:US	52830980	R12UDXWVXDNRP7	0821778293	311914465	Dangerous To Know (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	6	6	N	N	starts out strong, but then...	When Lady Elizabeth Stockwell finds a badly wounded gentleman in her stables, her first thought, other than that she must help him, is to conceal his presence so as to prevent a scandal. But as the days pass, Lady Elizabeth finds herself unexpectedly drawn to her handsome and mysterious patient. That he is a gentleman is obvious, as is the fact that he had been rather severely wounded during a duel. And the very fact that he is leery about revealing his identity leads her to believe that he was the wrongdoer. And when Lady Elizabeth finally discovers who her patient is, and the wrong that he is guilty of, she knows that she should forget all her tender feelings for her patient. Except that she finds she cannot quite do this. Or reconcile the fact that the evil rake Lord Langdon and her charming patient are one and the same. And soon Lady Elizabeth must decide where her allegiances lie: with her friends who hate Langdon, or with the charming one time rake who claims to have changed his ways and who wants to spend the rest of his life with her... <br /> <br />\\"Dangerous To Know\\" started out strong and had all the hallmarks of being a really good read. However, about halfway through, the novel takes on some really gothic overtones, as Lady Elizabeth's brother and her friends attempt to curb her movements, forbid her to have anything to do with Langdon, and to try and force her to accept another's hand in marriage. Add to that Lady Elizabeth's frequent bouts of temper, and I speedily began to loose interest in \\"Dangerous to Know.\\" Another thing I found disquieting was the manner in which Lady Elizabeth would flirt outrageously with her other suitor in order to allay everyone's suspicions regarding her feelings for Langdon. Nothing wrong with that I suppose, except that I have this rather quaint and old fashioned notion that there must be other ways to pull the wool over everyone's eyes other than to flirt outrageously with someone else. That Lady Elizabeth's flirtationswith this suitor would come back to haunt her later on only added to the discomfort I felt.  <br /> <br />On the plus side was the manner in which Leanne Shawler cleverly depicted Lady Elizabeth's confusion as to whether or not she should trust Langdon and allow her feelings for him full reign. This was really well done, and the doubt, confusion and wistful yearning that Lady Elizabeth felt was skillfully drawn for all to appreciate. However, this really didn't make up for the other problems I had with the book. Like how it was that Lady Elizabeth was allowed to go riding every morning without an escort or groom while she was staying with her friends in London; and the small confusion I felt about events that took place before this book starts involving Langdon's scandalous past and the reason why her friends hate him so -- most of this is explained over the course of the novel of course, but it still didn't prevent that awful feeling one gets when one wonders into a play after the first act and one is valiantly trying to figure out what is going on. Is Langdon a reformed rake with a scandalous past that he is trying to live down? Or has he been painted slightly blacker than he really is? And a misuse of a few words here and there only added to the confusion I felt. <br /> <br />Truth to tell, there is a really good story here, and the book really does start off strong. Perhaps it was because I wasn't in the mood for histrionics and the gothic-like behaviour of certain characters, that I didn't enjoy \\"Dangerous To Know.\\" Whatever the case, I didn't find it that memorable a read in spite of the fact that the author had done a really good job of portraying the attraction and sensual heat that the hero and heroine felt for each other. 2 1/2 stars.	2005-06-03
219178:US	52830980	R1PDZ7F9BZ04CE	0821778501	295229074	Once Upon  A Sofa (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	an enjoyable read in spite of a few "niggles"	A rich young widow, Lady Isabel Ashby, has decided that this time she will choose the husband she wants, and that he should have the social standing she desires as well as wealth. Her chosen quarry is the Earl of Caenby. But Caenby is refusing to cooperate, blithely ignoring all her hints and overtures. And so Lady Isabel decides to help her cause along by compromising the earl. Except that things go spectacularly wrong, and she ends up compromising the earl's best friend, Major Sidney Chamberlayne (a younger son and one who is not rich) instead. Now, instead of pulling off the social coup of the Season, Isabel must marry Sidney Chamberlayne in order to repair her tarnished reputation. Was ever a lady so badly thwarted? But Lady Isabel soon discovers that her unwanted marriage has its benefits in the form of her good looking and morally upright husband. Could she be falling in love with her new husband? Is it possible that she is finding in this marriage all the things she had dreamt of as a young girl? But there are those in Sidney's family who don't approve of her, and when someone from her past insinuates himself into her new life, Lady Isabel realises that she may be in danger of losing everything she has come to hold dear... <br /> <br />\\"Once Upon a Sofa\\" possesses a good story even if the plot premise is an oft used one and the manner at which the story unfolded a little choppy as quite a bit occurs \\"off stage\\" as it were. It was, also, a tad difficult to take the heroine of the book, Lady Isabel, to heart for the first third of the book not because she had planned on entrapping the Earl of Caenby into marriage, but because she spent pages sulking when her plans went haywire and then because she spent another few chapters behaving like a brat once she's married to Sidney. Fortunately, she soon came to see that she'd received an unlooked for break when she ended up with Sidney, and the pair soon settled down to making their marriage work. Along the way, the author cleverly threw in a few spokes to all this potential marital bliss by having Sidney's elder brother openly show his disdain for Lady Isabel, Sidney's frustrating attempts to settle into life outside the army and having Lady Isabel's less reputable friends suddenly insert themselves in her life. And if the author had stuck with these, \\"Once upon a Sofa\\" would have been more of a stellar read for me because the novel really was at its strongest when it concentrated on Lady Isabel and Sidney. As it is she added an unwanted (in my opinion) subplot involving Sidney's young sister's infatuation with a cad, and Lady Isabel's attempts to make her see sense to give the book some conflict. I, unfortunately, found this subplot heavy going and a little uninteresting. All in all, however, \\"Once Upon a Sofa\\" was an enjoyably good read, and I would definitely look out for Myretta Robens' next novel.	2005-06-02
219832:US	52830980	RH9808HLSRTN	0060581077	498112704	Not a Girl Detective: A Cece Caruso Mystery	Books	3	5	5	N	N	a nice, light 3 1/2 star read	Cece Caruso, biographer of dead mystery writers, is currently engaged in writing the biography of Carolyn Keene. Or rather writing about the many unacknowledged writers who penned the Nancy Drew (amongst others) mystery series under the pseudonym \\"Carolyn Kenne\\" for the Stratemeyer Syndicate. But Cece's real fascination is with Grace Horton, the young woman who modeled as Nancy Drew for the original book covers when they were first published, otherwise known as the Blue Nancy texts. A devout fan of the intrepid young fictional sleuth, Cece cannot be happier, especially when she's invited to give a key-not speech at a Nancy Drew convention, and gets to meet eccentric collector Edgar Edwards who just happens to own a world famous collection of Nancy Drews. Cece and Edgar hit it off so well that he even offers her the use of his Palm Springs vacation house while Cece's attending the Nancy Drew convention. Soon, Cece with her two best friends, Lael and Bridget, in tow, are off for weekend of fun. Except that amidst all the frolicking, Cece and her friends find their erstwhile host dead. The Palm Springs police are eyeing Cece with suspicion. But Cece has her own suspicions about who could have murdered Edgar and why, and she's determined to make her case and get her murderer, just like the fictional Nancy Drew that so inspired her when she was growing up... <br /> <br />While \\"Not a Girl Detective\\" is a much lighter follow-up to \\"I Dreamed I married Perry Mason,\\" it still was a fun read. I thought that the notion of structuring \\"Not a Girl Detective\\" along the lines of a Nancy Drew mystery novel was a rather ingenuous one and worked rather well. As with \\"I Dreamed I Married Perry Mason,\\" the dialogue in this latest Cece Caruso installment was snappy and rather droll, and added to the air of immediacy and smoothness that the book had. However, while \\"Not a Girl Detective\\" was an all round pleasing read, I couldn't help wishing that it had been little more intriguing andmore complex. All in all, though, a nice 3 1/2 star read.	2005-06-01
221851:US	52830980	RXHJEYRBQA31X	0440242428	501556758	Fearful Symmetry (Sara Selkirk Mysteries)	Books	3	15	15	N	N	not bad but a bit of a let down	This second installment in the Sara Selkirk mystery series was a bit of a let down for me. Not because it was badly written book, but because the mystery subplot played a poor second fiddle to Sara's frustrations over her feelings for married DCI Andrew Poole. The story unfolded very slowly and the suspense and tension levels were barely discernible. What saved \\"Fearful Symmetry\\" was Morag Joss' clear and precise character portrayals and how she made her characters the focal point of what was going on. <br /> <br />Cellist Sara Selkirk is not feeling very happy or sanguine right now. First she allowed her agent to persuade her to work with the famous Hungarian composer of modern music, Herve Petrescu (he's writing a very modern and contemporary piece for her), in spite of the fact that she really doesn't like Petrescu's music very much. And then she's allowed herself to be lulled by the famous man's sex appeal into agreeing to find him suitable accommodations while he's in Bath. (Actually what Petrescu was angling for was to live with Sara while they worked on his composition. Something that Sara suddenly discovered she just wasn't up for just then). And if that's not all, there's the messy complication of her relationship with the very married DCI Andrew Poole, who has agreed to give his failing marriage another go in spite of the fact that's he very much in love with Sara. So that when Andrew finds himself in the middle of a letter bomb killing, Sara finds herself taking an unnatural interest in the case. The victim was a not very well liked old lady who had had an altercation with a pair of animal rights activists over a fur coat. The police think that one activist sent a letter bomb to the woman to make a point. But Sara instinctively thinks that some secret in the old woman's past may be at the root of her death. If she could only get Andrew to listen to her... <br /> <br />The novel unfolds over the course of a few months in autumn, and as such is a little slow moving. And the fact that the book seemed to circle over and over again around Sara's and Andrew's twin frustrations over the state of their relationship only added to the nothing-much-happening-here feeling. However, the author's colourful and loving depiction of Bath, together with her precise, vivid and full bodied character portrayals saved the book and made it a more interesting read. Some readers may, however, grow a little tired and irritated of Sara and her frequent outbursts of anger and feelings of superiority -- I know that I did. And I also found myself, unexpectedly, feeling sorry for Andrew's wife, Valerie. It is fairly obvious that she's not a likable character, and yet I couldn't help feeling sympathetic towards the outclassed Valerie. All in all, \\"Fearful Symmetry\\" is a well written novel. It is just not a very satisfactory mystery novel because the atmosphere of suspense and intrigue was not always there, and because the entire mystery subplot was often overshadowed by Sara's emotions. About a two-thirds through the book, things do pick up at a breath-neck pace, and everything is tidily tied up. And I couldn't help wishing that the entire book had had that same feel and tone.	2005-05-31
227389:US	52830980	R2PF3RXKDIOXGM	0451214994	37870236	The Marriage List (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	29	32	N	N	an emotionally engaging read	Still recovering from injuries from the Battle of Salamanca, Viscount Evers has decided to succumb to parental pressure and marry. Even though he has a badly injured leg and he may always walk with a limp, Evers is still a matrimonial prize. And because he's still angry and bitter about his injuries, and because he has no real interest in exerting himself too much in order to find a wife, Evers makes a list of all the qualities he wants his future wife to have: good birth, respectable dowry, beauty, youth and a pliable nature. All the qualities that the lovely Lady Lillian Newberry possesses and non of which May Sheffers, a tenant of his that is being evicted for non payment of rents possesses. And yet Evers finds himself being unexpectedly drawn to the intelligent but dowdy young lady, making a mockery of his marriage list...    \\"The Marriage List,\\" Dorothy McFalls, debut novel has more strengths than weaknesses. It is a very well written novel (though one of the previous reviewer's complaints about too modern language and phrases is true), with a nicely drawn cast of characters and a good plot that is competently and powerfully executed. And if you're looking for an emotionally engaging read with a strong character portrayal of the heroine, then you're bound to enjoy \\"The Marriage List.\\" It's been a while since I've read such a poignant novel -- Dorothy McFalls did and excellent job of making me feel May's panic, hopelessness and her pain. I also thought that the author did a rather good job of making us see how confused Evers felt about his unexpected feelings for May, and how torn he was between doing the expected thing of courting the exceptional Lady Lillian and wanting to spend more time with May. I just wished that the author had 1) made a better case of making us see from the very first chapter, what it was about May that drew Evers to her from the very beginning (what he saw in her later, and how he grew to appreciate her, I think was very well documented); 2) had thought of a better way to get rid of the villains of the novel. I won't go into it because this will mean plot spoilers, but May's Aunt Winnie's sudden decision to finally act and for not having acted sooner seemed a little weak to me! And 3) the rushed ending where everything ends well and all loose ends are tied up -- after the emotional penultimate chapter, this last chapter was a bit of a letdown. On the whole though, I was pleased that I bought \\"The Marriage List,\\" and will be looking out for Dorothy McFalls future books.	2005-05-26
228138:US	52830980	RLZGY8Y2SG19L	0821778463	33600631	Garden Of Dreams (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	a near perfect read in spite of a few "niggles"	Valerie King's \\"Garden of Dreams\\" proved to be the kind of Regency-era romance novel that made for a very enjoyable and engrossing read. And if it were not for the few niggles that I had, I think that this probably would have been the near-perfect read.  <br /> <br />In order to satisfy the terms of her father's will, Miss Lucinda Stiles finds herself once again at Aldershaw, the home of close family friends, the Sandifort family. But the lovely Aldershaw estate of her childhood is no more: the house and grounds have become sadly neglected, and the once happy Sandifort children (still grieving over the death of their father, Sir Henry Sandifort) seems to be under the cruel rule of Sir Henry's second and much younger wife, the beautiful Lady Celeste. Somehow, and Lucy is not sure how, Lady Celeste has a hold over everyone, and uses her power to venomously belittle and punish her stepchildren at every turn, while callously ignoring her own young children. And while Lucy is flabbergasted at how much Lady Celeste has been allowed to get away with, she's nevertheless determined to do all she can to make life a little better, easier and happier for her friends. Her ways may seem interfering and duplicitous, but Lucy is sure that she's doing the right thing. Never mind if Sir Robert Sandifort, the eldest son and current head of the family thinks that she's \\"ridiculous, vulgar and interferring!\\" Except that Lucy finds that she does care about Sir Robert's good opinion. For she has nursed a tendre for Sir Robert for the longest time, and the very thought that he should think so badly of her is causing her a great deal of pain... <br /> <br />\\"Garden of Dreams\\" is a very well written romance novel of the more conventional type -- the hero & heroine don't anticipate their marriage bed, and spend some time quarreling and not always being on the same page. And I'll confess I do enjoy these more conventional Regencies quite a bit. This novel in particular makes use of a much usedplot device, the beautiful and self-centered stepmother. But how well the author depicts the cruel joy with which Lady Celeste wields her staff, juxtaposing it with Lucy's intelligent and soft approach. Some readers  may not enjoy Lucy's slightly duplicitous approach, but just think how much easier Cinderella's or Snow White's lives may have been if they'd used guile and charm to get around their respective stepmothers! Compared to Lucy however, Sir Robert's frequent outbursts of anger makes him seem a little peevish and churlish. But since he figures out, about halfway through the book that Lucy knows what she's doing, it does become easier for the reader to sit back and enjoy the novel. Only two things niggled at me: the ending where the Sandiforts are finally able to rid themselves of Lady Celeste's presence seemed completely anticlimactic, and made you wonder why no one ever thought of doing it sooner; and the fact that it takes Lucy another 8 pages to resolve her feelings. Other than that, \\"Garden of Dreams\\" was a very enjoyable and satisfying read.	2005-05-25
231154:US	52830980	RPGHYLI94HHJC	0553802178	471695321	The Sinner's Tale	Books	5	5	5	N	N	one of the best historical novels I've read to date	This is going to be a rather difficult review for me to write because I liked the book so much that I don't think that I will be able to write a competent review adequately expressing my appreciation for \\"The Sinner's Tale.\\"    In 1372, Guy de Bryan, a trusted knight in the court of Edward III, is asked by his king to undertake one last mission to Genoa in order to negotiate an agreement so that the Genoese will trade freely with the English. Sir Guy will be accompanied on this trip by his old friend, soldier and priest, William Batokewaye, a squire who is closely connected to the Duke of Lancaster, and by two Genoese noblemen. The mission is a dangerous one, fraught with natural (traveling in the heart of winter is not for the faint-hearted) and physical dangers (pirates and enemies of England who would like the mission to fail), but Sir Guy is determined to ensure that his mission is a successful one. However, his friend William has another mission, one that he is equally determined to see through. Knowing of his friend's brooding and melancholy disposition, and suspecting that Sir Guy has assumed the burden for a sin he was not really guilty off, and that this is eating away at him, William is resolved to exorcise the sin from Sir Guy's soul. And to do that, he has let loose on Sir Guy the curious squire, who questions Sir Guy closely about his life at court and his adventures during the war with France, bringing to light a wondrous tale about an enduring and passionate love that tarnished the honour of a \\"true, a perfect gentle-knight...\\"    \\"The Sinner's Tale\\" is actually framed around two time periods: one subplot deals with events that are taking place in the 14th century and revolves around Sir Guy's last mission and the story of his life; while the other subplot deals with events that are currently occurring and revolves around the sexual scandal that brings political high-flyer, Beth Battock down. Unfortunately, Beth's story is not a very interesting one:a neo-con hawk, Beth is at odds with her liberal family. Her fall from grace, and her flight back home to the backwaters, really serves to highlight Sir Guy's story (a childhood friend of Beth's is in the middle of restoring Sir Guy's chantry and her family is somehow tied to Sir Guy), and his message for future generations, which Beth and others slowly uncover. The subplot that deals with Beth is not as lyrically written as Sir Guy's, nor is it as absorbing or as compelling. Also I did think that the bit where Beth finally discovers her mother's identity, was a bit over the top. On the whole though I thought that the novel was a wonderfully engaging read, and one of the best things I've read this year. I must own though that I don't think that \\"The Sinner's Tale\\" is for everyone: the novel has a message, one that not everyone may agree with. But it is a beautifully written one and a thought provoking one, and one that resonates whether you're talking about events that took place in the 14th century or about events that are taking place now. The best part is that because Will Davenport is relating Sir Guy's story, and because the message is not revealed until the very end, the tone of the book is never preachy or smug.     Compelling and riveting, \\"The Sinner's Tale\\" is one of those \\"unputdownables.\\" I stayed up all night in order to read this brilliant book in one sitting. The historical details were vivid and fascinating; and I loved that the squire was a well known 14th century personality, whom the author never names until the end -- even though most readers will easily be able to guess who he is. Two final notes: 1) Unlike Harriet Klausner I didn't find the ending too implausible. Let's not forget Robin Cook or that huge rally for peace in England; and 2) I do prefer the British title for this novel: \\"The Perfect Sinner\\" -- I do think that that title better encapsulates what the book is about.	2005-05-23
232801:US	52830980	RPLU3APMQA22N	0451214927	554078513	Just Murdered (Dead-End Job Mystery)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	and enjoyable 3 1/2 star read	In this latest Dead-End Job installment, series heroine, Helen Hawthorne, finds herself up to her neck in trouble when she ends up, horrors of horrors, on the suspect list of South Florida's latest society murder.  <br /> <br />Helen's latest dead-end job is at an upscale bridal boutique, Millicent's Bridal Salon. For once, Helen's boss turns out to be not only a savvy businesswoman, but also a relatively nice one that Helen can admire. The same, however, cannot be said for most of the clients that frequent the store, and the hateful mother of the bride-to-be, Kiki Shenrad, in particular. Obnoxious, demanding, attention grabbing and a sex maniac, Kiki wants the best -- not for her only daughter (the mousy and chinless Desiree) -- but for herself. As Helen watches with fascinated horror, Kiki manages to offend everyone from Helen's boss, Millicent, to the groom-to-be, to Kiki's ex-husband (and Desiree's father), to Helen herself; but the last thing Helen expected was to come across Kiki dead body stuffed in a closet at the church on the very day of the wedding, the day after Kiki had threatened to have Helen fired. With her fingerprints at the scene of the crime, and the police taking more than a casual interest in her, Helen knows that she has to solve this murder before the police can uncover the secret past she's running from... <br /> <br />I enjoyed \\"Just Married\\" even though it was not, in my opinion the best Dead-End installment. And this was not because \\"Just Married\\" possessed a boring storyline or was badly written. To the contrary. I just thought that the author had spent too much time on Helen's problem with her boy friend, Phil. And while I appreciated that this added to the texture of the novel, and allowed us to understand better how much Helen had gone through before her momentous move from St. Louis, and how much she had suffered, and everything had just made a little leery about trusting men too much, I really wanted for Helen to buckle down, followthe clues and question the many suspects alibis and motives. On the whole, though, \\"Just Murdered\\" was an enjoyable, relatively fast paced and absorbing 3 1/2 star read.	2005-05-21
233124:US	52830980	R1NIYR82YIDAJJ	0373895194	932093559	Sex, Murder and a Double Latte	Books	3	14	15	N	N	an entertaining, light read	\\"Sex, Murder and a Double Latte\\" definitely was a very breezy, fast paced and amusing read, and actually was a rather entertaining debut mystery novel. That said, I'd have to add however, this book is really for mystery lovers who enjoy light mysteries, because most of the focus for \\"Sex, Murder and a Double Latte\\" was on the heroine's (Sophie Katz) sizzling and troubled attraction for Anatoly Darinsky, who just might turn out to be a deranged and merciless killer.  <br /> <br />When filmmaker Michael Tolsky is found dead with his wrists slashed and a note of regret penned to his estranged wife, his death is quickly ruled as a suicide. For Sophie Katz, up and coming mystery writer, however, there is something about Tolsky's death that niggles. Especially when she realises that Tolsky's death is an exact replica of a murder from one of the films that Tolsky had directed. And when Sophie's life suddenly starts resembling the plot from her book that both she and Tolsky were developing for a movie project, Sophie knows that Tolsky was murdered and that she's next on this mad killer's list of victims. The police won't listen and think that her imagination is in overdrive, but Sophie is sure that she's right, and that it is up to her to put a stop to this madman's spree... <br /> <br />If you enjoy humorous, light mysteries complete with a heroine that's full of spunk and snappy comebacks, and who possesses a group of loyal and courageous friends, you're bound to enjoy \\"Sex, Murder and a Double Latte.\\" (This novel is especially bound to appeal to readers who enjoy a dollop of romance to their mysteries as well.) The mystery subplot premise was a very good one and was full of promise. Unfortunately, it also frequently took back-seat first to her preoccupation with her potential to romance, and then to her hyperventilations as to whether or not she was dating a serial killer. Understandable of course, after all who wants to admit that they might have cozied up to a murderer? But because I was more caught up in the mystery plot, I wanted more of how these murders connected, and a few more red herring suspects, complete with some interesting plot twists. Much of this was completely jammed into the last few chapters, which was a tad disappointing for me. Also, the red herring suspects never really materialised. On the whole though, this was an entertaining read. And I enjoyed it enough to hope that the author will be penning more Sophie Katz novels in the future.	2005-05-21
238667:US	52830980	R2GN1BTGZ774II	039915275X	455930514	Captain Alatriste	Books	4	35	40	N	N	a fantastic read in spite of some frustrations I had	A veteran of the Flemish Wars, the brave and gallant Captain Triste has now been reduced to hiring out his sword. In this first installment, the Captain, along with an Italian mercenary, has been hired by two masked men of obvious wealth and power to \\"scare\\" two Englishmen, and to steal their belongings -- especially all their papers and documents. But when the more powerful of the two masked men leaves the room, the Captain and the Italian are told that their actual orders are to kill the Englishmen. The new orders make no difference to the Italian, but this change in instruction makes the Captain uneasy, especially when they come from the President of the Holy Tribunal of the Inquisition, Fray Emilio Bocanegra. But the Captain has little choice: he needs the money and doesn't have the luxury of going against the wishes of the tribunal. On the night of the attack however, the behaviour of the Englishmen, makes the Captain realise that these Englishmen are not merely two ordinary travelers and he puts a halt to the whole thing, earning himself the enmity of the Italian and the tribunal. And once the identities of the Englishmen are revealed and their purpose for being in Spain, Captain Alatriste realises that he has put himself in the middle of court politics, that the likelihood of surviving this mess is slim and that his enemies, who think that he has betrayed them, implacable and deadly...    As has been already noted, Arturo Perez-Reverte's \\"Captain Alatriste\\" is for the reader who enjoys a good swashbuckling read that's deeply imbued with the history and spirit of early 17th century Spain. However, I'd have to say that it is not the most breathtakingly fast paced read, because things do sag a little about a third way from the end, as our whimsical narrator, Captain Alariste's page, Inigo Balboa, goes into great detail in order to give the reader an idea about the history, politics and culture of Spain in the 1600s. This, in itself, is not a detraction. But because it came right about the time when things picked up and became rather exciting and suspenseful, the break in the \\"action\\" in order to give a more vivid picture of Spain at that moment, felt like an intrusion. Which was a rather strange reaction for someone like me to have because I for one always appreciate it when an author takes the time and effort to paint in the historical realities of the moment. The problem was that \\"Captain Alatriste\\" is the first installment in a series of adventures, and it is a short novella. And because it is the first installment in a series of five adventures, the author spends quite a bit of time setting things up for future books -- the politics and intrigues of the period, as well as thumbnail sketches of the various characters who figure in this adventure, and who will obviously figure in the subsequent adventures. So that what actually occurs in \\"Captain Alatriste\\" is a very short accounting of how the gallant Captain manages to make so many enemies, and yet survives to fight another day. And as I noted all this is great fun and makes for very enthralling reading. However, the narrator's musings and ruminations do get in the way, especially when they come at the point where the Captain is about to face another attempt on his life, and all I wanted was to read on, instead of which I was treated to a few pages of stanzas from the period. And while this added to the charm of the novel, I found myself skimming these bits in order to get to the \\"action.\\" All in all, however, \\"Captain Alatriste\\" was a very fantastic read, and one that I would recommend wholeheartedly to anyone who enjoys heroic historical novels. I just cannot believe however, that I have to wait till January of 2006 to read the next Captain Alatriste installment!	2005-05-16
242655:US	52830980	R3X3WRAPSB0AL	0451215036	558318212	Lady Midnight (Signet Eclipse)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	another winning romance novel from Amanda McCabe	Another winning historical romance novel from Amanda McCabe! It really looks as if one can count on Ms McCabe for a reliable, satisfying and engaging read. And although \\"Lady Midnight\\" does make use of a much used plot device, by focusing more on the developing relationships that Kate, the heroine, has with her charges and the hero, Michael Lindley, the author makes \\"Lady Midnight\\" a very novel and enjoyable reading experience. <br /> <br />On the very day that Katerina Bruni, the only daughter of the beautiful Venetian courtesan Lucrezia Bruni, was to follow in her mother's footsteps, tragedy strikes. Now, all alone and practically penniless, Katerina gets the chance to strike out on her own and to put the confining and unappealing world of courtesans behind her. And so she reinvents herself: Katerina Bruni died with everyone in the boating tragedy, and in her place lives Katherine Brown, an Italian widow of an English soldier, who has come to England in order to find work as a governess. Her first assignment is with the Lindley family who reside in the wilds of Yorkshire. Michael Lindley, the younger brother of the Earl of Darcy, is a widower, and needs to find a governess for his young daughter, Amelia, and for his fifteen year old sister, Christina. Bookish and budding botanist Christina especially needs help, for the young lady, who will make her debut soon, has no social graces whatsoever -- something that is driving Michael's mother wild with frustration. It is everyone's hope that Kate will help Christina acquire some polish. This is something that Kate is more than willing to do, especially since she's lost her heart to both Christina and Amelia. Unexpectedly, though, Kate also finds that she's dangerously attracted to her handsome and kind employer. And even though she senses that he is equally attracted to her, she knows that nothing can come of this mutual attraction, for her employer is an honourable man. And anyway, didn't she leave Venice in order toescape ending up as some man's plaything? As Kate tries to come to grips with her strong feelings, she also begins to find peace and purpose with her new life in Yorkshire as an instructress to both Christina and Amelia, that is until someone from her past suddenly reappears with the power to destroy her... <br /> <br />Although Amanda McCabe uses a much used plot device (the \\"young lady with a past masquerading as a servant\\" plot motif), by focusing more on the blossoming romance between Kate and Michael, as well as the easy and affectionate relationship Kate has with both her charges, the author makes \\"Lady Midnight\\" a much more complex and interesting read. So that even though the novel unfolds a tad slowly, the overall effect is one in which a more complete picture of how things progress for Kate and Michael from longing to a fully realised loving relationship is given. Also well done was the manner in which she developed her primary characters -- Kate, Michael, Christina and Amelia -- and the manner in which she would give us glimpses into what certain minor characters were feeling (like Michael's unhappy sister-in-law, Mary for example). Also much appreciated (by me anyway) was how the author avoided the entire BIG MISUNDERSTANDING cliche by actually having Kate confide her past to Michael before it is so spectacularly revealed. However, unlike one of the previous reviewers, I do hope that there is no future novel that will feature the deranged villain of this piece as hero. I thought that Amanda McCabe had done a fantastic job of portraying this character's dark delusions, his volatile emotions as well as his obsessive and possessive tendencies brilliantly, thus making him and excellent foil for the hero. So that on the whole then, I'd say that \\"Lady Midnight\\" was an extremely well written and moving romance novel that made for a very satisfying read and that was well worth the cover price. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />  <br />	2005-05-13
248911:US	52830980	R3CIW9IGOIVRCT	0373770383	481281511	Shall We Dance? (USA Today Best Selling Author)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	well, I liked it...	I wonder if I read the same novel that the previous two reviewers did? Because I found Kasey Michaels' \\"Shall We Dance?\\" to be a rather witty and humorous read, and actually liked it a lot better than quite a few of her previous Regency-era romance novels! I suppose that this does prove the adage right: there's no accounting for (personal) taste. <br /> <br />George III of England is (finally) dead, and the corpulent, dissolute, spendthrift and much despised Prince of Wales is soon be crowned king -- something that the Prince has dreamed of and longed for for a very long time. Unfortunately, for the Prince, this much looked forward to turn of events is quite marred because of the realisation that his much hated wife, Princess Caroline of Brunswick, would be entitled to be crowned Queen of England as well. The Prince cannot bear this and has instructed his government to find a way for him to divorce Princess Caroline. The Tory (Conservative) government, quite tired of the blowzy and coarse Princess of Wales and her scandalous ways eagerly cooperate, particularly as a newly divorced King would be able to marry again and father another heir (Princess Charlotte, the Prince and Princess' Caroline's only child, had died in childbirth some time back). In order to ferret out some outrageous scandal concerning Princess Caroline, Sir Willard Humphrey, retired Minister of the Admiralty, has decided to coerce his nephew, Perry Shepherd, the Earl of Brentwood, into helping the government. The plan is for Perry to seduce the Princess' young companion, Miss Amelia Fredericks, into revealing a \\"naughty\\" tidbit or two about the Princess that would effective ruin her in the eyes of all her many supporters. A dangerous man, who had done some rather unpleasant things for his country during the Peninsula Wars, Perry is nevertheless appalled at the lengths that his uncle and the government are prepared to go in order to satisfy their Prince in order to stay in power. And Perry is resolved to contain whatever excesses his uncle and his cronies are capable of unleashing by pretending to do their bidding. A resolve that becomes all the more palatable once he meets Miss Amelia Fredericks, and recognises in her a heart so steadfast and loyal and true, that it is almost a balm to his much jaded soul. Determined to protect the Princess and his Amelia, Perry nevertheless quickly realises how doubly risky his plan is -- for what should happen if Amelia were to learn of his connection to Sir Willard? Will he be able to stomach losing the woman he has fallen deeply in love with for the sake of duty? <br /> <br />\\"Shall We Dance?\\" starts off strong -- Perry's sardonic wit really makes for a very entertaining read. Also adding to the entertaining faction was the humorous manner in which the author presents the very many eccentric and colourful characters who have all marshaled their resources in order to either help or hinder the Princess. It is true, however, that things do sag a little somewhere in the middle; likewise the romance between Perry and Amelia, which starts out strong, but which also takes a back seat to the intrigue subplot -- who is out to poison the Princess, and who is behind the attempt? However, the realistic and stark manner in which Kasey Michaels presents the Princess' plight, together with the sympathetic manner in which she presents Amelia -- her dreams and her desires -- plus the witty manner in which she presents the stalwart manner in which Perry tries to do the right thing and protect Amelia and the Princess, made reading \\"Shall We Dance?\\" a rather enjoyable and witty read. Kasey Michaels does a good job of using in a real historical event as a backdrop to her romance subplot. And I enjoyed her portrayal of the much beleaguered but the utterly tasteless Princess Caroline. So that in spite of the fact that things got a little rushed here and there, \\"Shall We Dance?\\" still turned out to be a good read.	2005-05-08
253533:US	52830980	REEEGIMHW9MHE	0451214714	454228523	Louisa and the Country Bachelor: A Louisa May Alcott Mystery	Books	4	11	11	N	N	a very enjoyable and entertaining read	The second installment in the Louisa May Alcott mystery series, \\"Louisa and the Country Bachelor\\" proved to be a very engaging and intriguing read, and should, if nothing else, inspire many readers to read Louisa May Alcott's biography, and perhaps even (re)read a few of her novels. <br /> <br />Still feeling the aftereffects of having been involved in the murder investigation of her close friend, Dorothy Wortham, the previous winter, (\\"Louisa and the Missing Heiress\\"), Louisa May Alcott is pleased when her uncle, Benjamin Willis, invites the entire Alcott family to summer with him at his home in Walpole, New Hampshire. Of course, Louisa's best friend, Sylvia Shattuck, on the run from her mother's matchmaking schemes, tags along too. Succumbing to the beautiful weather and the green and golden countryside, everyone is soon pleasurably occupied with gardening, reading, writing and exploring the little town. But the pleasure is all to soon marred with tragedy when one of the townsmen, Ernest Noooteboom, is found dead in a ravine. Everyone believes that Ernest fell whilst hiking; but Ernest's sister, Lilli, believes that Ernset's death was no accident and firmly believes that someone murdered him. And having looked at the evidence, Louisa shares Lilli's suspicions. Realising that the sheriff is unlikely to listen to a mere girl, Louisa is determined, much to her concerned family's dismay, to discover how Ernest met with his death and why he was murdered... <br /> <br />\\"Louisa and the Country Bachelor\\" proved to be a very engaging and wholly engrossing read. I thought that Anna Maclean had done a truly wonderful job of capturing Louisa May Alcott's voice and persona. Louisa May Aloctt comes across as an intelligent, warm, charming and very fascinating character, definitely inspired in me the desire to read Alcott's biography. Similarly, I also enjoyed the loving manner in which portrayed the entire Alcott family and Sylvia Shattuck. I particualrly liked the vividly colourful manner in which the author captured the countryside surrounding Walpole -- she definitely made the place seem very beautiful and vital. Also nicely done was the manner in which she allowed for the suspense to mount gradually and smoothly, so that the pace was not uneven or jarringly awkward. So that all in all, I'd say that \\"Louisa and the Country Bachelor\\" was a very well crafted, smoothly paced mystery novel, that was intriguing and engrossing, and that also possessed an easy and completely accessible prose style. In other words: a truly good and worthwhile read.	2005-05-04
257468:US	52830980	RS6AV6H4OIOCM	0312339194	171127413	The Torment of Others: A Novel (Dr. Tony Hill and Carol Jordan Mysteries)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	4 1/2 stars: a very chilling and riveting read	While not as heart-stoppingly suspenseful as \\"The Mermaid's Singing,\\" this latest Tony Hill/Carol Jordan mystery novel proved to be a very riveting and compelling read, that will (need I say it?) keep you completely glued to your chair until the very last page. <br /> <br />When a prostitute is found brutal murdered in a manner similar to a previous case from a few years ago also involving murdered prostitutes, DCI Carol Jordan and her team think that they've a copycat on their hands. But this, according to criminal psychologist, Dr. Tony Hill, is not the case. His belief is that the same person who was responsible for those murders, is responsible for this one as well. The problem is that there was irrefutable forensic evidence as well as a confession for that first case, and Derek Tyler is currently serving time in a mental institution for those first murders. Tyler's claim, hitherto dismissed as the fantasies of a deranged mind, was that the \\"voice\\" had told him what to do and how to do it. Could his fantastic claims be true? Could there be a sinister, twisted personality out there who derives pleasure and satisfaction from manipulating others to commit, vicious, brutal murders against women? As the body count rises and pressure to make a quick arrest mounts, Carol's newly formed Major Incident Team begins to fall apart as the different personalities clash -- some even begin to question if Carol is up to the job given that she's still feeling raw and vulnerable from having been assaulted a few months ago. Carol must now put her personal qualms aside in order to bring her team together so that they can work as an integrated unit as well as get them to trust her instincts and leadership again. Fortunately, she has Tony Hill backing her up in more ways than one... <br /> <br />Taut and fast paced, \\"The Torment of Others\\" was an incredibly engrossing read that really kept me guessing for quite a while. At some point, a few readers may get an inkling as to what's going on and who the guilty party may be; fortunately, the author took great care to make plausible suspects of a few key characters, so that if you enjoy trying to solve the mystery along with the lead detectives, you're in for a treat. And by filtering in Tony's and Carol's complex and unresolved feelings, Carol's still raw feelings about her rape, and Tony's feelings of guilt, Val McDermid also makes \\"The Torment of Others\\" a much more multifaceted and more textured read. <br /> <br />Chilling and horrifying, \\"The Torment of Others\\" definitely is a very well written and clever mystery novel. And while Val McDermid has written more suspenseful thrillers, \\"The Torment of Others\\" rates high as a very satisfying and chilling police procedural. Definitely a \\"not-to-be-missed\\" thriller.	2005-05-01
265939:US	52830980	R1TUF3PI5KNHAP	044130172X	133663987	A Grand Deception	Books	4	4	4	N	N	a very charming and well written tale	A reprint of an earlier work, \\"A Grand Deception\\" is a very good example as to why so many romance readers consider Elizabeth Mansfield to be one of the best Regency-era romance novelists of our time.    Captain Jeremy Verney has returned from the wars to find his family is disarray. To begin with the family finances leave a lot to be desired, and it looks as if the only way out may be if the eldest Verney daughter, Georgianna agrees to marry a rich gentleman. Except that Geogianna, who happens to be a bit of a bluestocking has no intention of marrying for money. A serious, compassionate and intelligent young woman, Georgianna longs to do something worthwhile with her life. And when her mother begins to nag at her to be more receptive to the attentions of the Season's latest eligible, Anthony Maitland, Viscount Ivers, Georgianna decides to leave home in order to strike out on her own in spite of the fact that she is rather attracted to Viscount Ivers.    Horrified, her family tries to look for her but with no success. What they do find is a young pickpocket, Peggy Birkin, who happens to bear an uncanny resemblance to Georgianna. And that's when Lady Verney comes up with an audacious PLAN to save the family from scandal until Georgianna comes to her senses and returns home.But what the good lady never considered was how her PLAN would affect and impact her family, and change things forever...    Put the fact that Lady Verney's grand plan is a rather daft one at the back of your mind, and just allow yourself to enjoy this really well written and highly polished romance novel. Elizabeth Mansfield does a really excellent job of centering the book on two very different yet wholly engaging heroines: Georgianna and Peggy, charting the highs and the lows of their new situations brilliantly, especially their different romances. An entertaining and captivating story, peopled with a cast of strong  and well drawn characters, this charming and absorbing  tale was a treat to read from beginning to end. So, if you're looking for something that's not fluffy and that's an affecting and charming tale, you can't go very wrong with \\"A Grand Deception.\\"	2005-04-24
271320:US	52830980	R2KH0SQTHA8ZG4	0399152563	800350613	Prince of Darkness	Books	5	17	17	N	N	siply excellent & not to be missed	If you're looking for a really good and well written medieval mystery novel that is rich in history and that fairly reeks of ambiance and atmosphere, look no further: Sharon Kay Penman delivers again with her latest Justin de Quincy installment, \\"The Prince of Darkness.\\" <br /> <br />When Lady Claudine engineers a meeting between Justin and Prince John (King Richard I's treacherous and dangerous younger brother), Justin is understandably furious. After all this was the prince who had had put a death sentence on Justin's head because Justin had got in the way of his plans. But when Justin discovers why it is that Prince John needs his help, he knows that as Queen Eleanor's loyal henchman, he must help him. For Prince John now finds himself in the middle of a plot not of his making and that may cause him his place as Richard's heir, and perhaps, even his life. It turns out that Constance, the Duchess of Brittany and the widow of Geoffrey (King Richard's & Prince John's dead brother) claims to have in her possession evidence that Prince John and the Count of Toulouse had planned to murder Richard. Constance has always hated her Angevin relatives, and has plans to make her six year old son, Arthur (Richard's & John's nephew), the next King of all the Angevin lands after King Richard's death. And if she manages to discredit Prince John once and for all, her son will get everything. Prince John must prove that this document is a forgery, and for that he needs Justin's help. And so, once again, for his Queen's sake, Justin finds himself riding into danger in order to sort this latest royal mess, totally dependent on help from those he quite cordially loathes (like Durand) and one lovely lady that he loves but dare not trust -- the Lady Claudine... <br /> <br />This series just keeps getting better and better, and \\"The Prince of Darkness\\" definitely lived up to my expectations that I would be in for a thrilling and utterly riveting read. The period details and the historical ambiance were fantastic -- Sharon Kay Penman does a wonderful job of explaining the complex realities of the Angevin royal family and their various satellites, and making the characters and their relative situations comprehensible (even if I did get a little tired of nearly everyone's hero worship of Richard I). I liked how she seamlessly incorporated a very perplexing murder investigation into the real political and historical happenings of the time, and especially how she made Morgan Bloet a vital part of this story. Fast paced, suspenseful, tightly plotted and intriguing, the author successfully help my attention and interest from beginning to end. And need I say it? I eagerly waiting for the next Justin de Quincy installment when he will \\"ride again.\\" A fantastic read.	2005-04-19
277759:US	52830980	R3656NM8G19ERD	0151011729	627017574	A Factory of Cunning	Books	4	11	13	N	N	a highly entertaining read	In 1784, a French noblewoman hunted and on the run, arrives in London in order to start afresh. With practically no connections and just one loyal and good friend, Mrs. Fox (an assumed name), hopes to carry on as she had in Holland, running con games. This time however, Mrs. Fox has another mission aside from the one of stark survival, for she has agreed to help her good friend, Dr. Hubert van Essel, bring his enemy, the rich and debauched Earl of March, low. Corrupt and lecherous, the Earl of March has been responsible for a lot of misery and pain, most especially to a lady that Dr. van Essel had esteemed greatly. Mrs. Fox is nothing loath to help. But has she met her match in the Earl of March? Always barely one step ahead of those who wish her harm, Mrs. Fox will have to work very fast to accomplish her mission -- provided, of course, that she doesn't get side tracked with schemes of her own... <br /> <br />I suppose that because \\"A Factory of Cunning\\" does have at its heart one character from \\"Dangerous Liaisons,\\" and the period and setting is similar to \\"Tom Jones,\\" comparisons are inevitable. However, \\"A Factory of Cunning\\" lacks the sophisticated wit of \\"Dangerous Liaisons\\" and the sardonic, rollicking style of \\"Tom Jones.\\" On the other hand, \\"A Factory of Cunning\\" is a highly polished and entirely engrossing novel. The author does a fantastic job of rendering scenes and of conveying a sense of the period. And even though she uses letters and journals (mostly Mrs. Fox's) to tell the tale, the author does a first rate job of giving each onr of her characters a distinctive voice and feel, thus making them real, multi-faceted and complex. So that even though \\"A Factory of Cunning\\" may never be up there with \\"Dangerous Liaisons\\" and \\"Tom Jones,\\" it still makes for a highly entertaining and compelling read.	2005-04-14
282469:US	52830980	R27U04P0TBDEOF	0451214730	341329044	Lord Will and Her Grace (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	a very engaging 3 1/2 star read	A penniless adventurer and a womanizer, Lord William (Lord Will) Barclay, finds himself in a veritable pickle when his latest host, Lord Tolworth uses his sixteen year old daughter to try and entrap Lord Will into marriage. Not one to take to such stratagems, Lord Will and his valet escape to Lord Will's best friend's, Charles Mornington's estate in Burnham-by-the-Sea. Resigned to being bored out of his mind during his stay in the country, Lord Will is intrigued to learn that the Season's latest heiress and scandal, Miss Sophie Somerset (also known as the Hoyden Heiress) is also in retreat at Burnham-by-the-Sea. Needing a fortune himself in order to restore his family name, the appearance of Miss Sophie Somerset, seems a godsend. Sensing an opportunity to recoup, Lord Will sets off to woo Sophie. But in Sophie, Lord Will may have met his match; for never has he met so beguiling, so honourable and so trusting a woman. Could Lord Will, the cynical womanizer, actually be falling in love with an innocent? <br /> <br />\\"Lord Will & Her Grace\\" is an extremely well written book with fully realized and multi-faceted main characters. That said, I have to admit that it was not nearly as compelling a read as \\"A Passionate Endeavor.\\" Part of the reason why may lie in the fact that \\"Lord Will & Her Grace\\" was a much simpler story. But Sophia Nash's ability to spin a good yarn and to engage the reader's interest and to one care as to whether or not Lord Will and Sophie will sort through all their misunderstandings and bruised feelings in order to achieve their happily ever-after ending, was evident. Fast paced and engaging, Lord Will & Her Grace made for an excellent 3  star read. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-10
282866:US	52830980	R23DVPEJOPJNWO	0425201945	786890367	Truly a Wife (Berkley Sensation)	Books	3	16	19	N	N	captivating heroine makes this a good read	\\"Truly a Wife\\" continues the saga of the Free Fellows League (a League originally founded by Griffin, the Viscount Abernathy, Colin, Viscount Grantham, & Jarrod, Earl of Westmore, in which the three young men had vowed to foreswear marriage in favour of adventure, the League has since expanded to include Daniel, the ninth Duke of Sussex, Jonathan Manners, the Earl of Barclay, & Alexander, the Marques of Courtland, and the League is now heavily involved in efforts to thwart Bonaparte), and focuses on the romance between Daniel, ninth Duke of Sussex, and Miranda, the Marchioness of St. Germaine.  <br /> <br />Even though he has been quite badly wounded while out on a mission, nothing is going to stop Daniel from attending his mother's annual ball. Especially since he has taken it upon himself to invite Miranda, the Marchioness of Sussex, against his mother's wishes. Alas, it doesn't look as if Daniel is going to be able to enjoy this ball at all as within minutes of arriving, his wound reopens. Forced to rely on Miranda, Daniel places himself in her hands and begs her to help leave the ball. Miranda comes through for him and takes him to one of her properties in order to recuperate. But what Daniel never anticipated was that this forced confinement, with Miranda at his beck and call, would cause him to confront his two opposing desires: his desire for unencumbered adventure, and his desire for Miranda. On the one had is his feeling that he is not quite ready for marriage and that Miranda, with responsibilities of her own may not be the ideal mate for the Duke of Sussex; but on the other hand there is Miranda, who is intelligent, reliable, capable and who fires his blood in way no other woman ever has. What will Daniel do, and what will he decide? And what of Miranda, who had once given her heart to Daniel only to have it trampled by him. Should she risk giving it to him one more time?  <br /> <br />\\"Truly a Wife\\" is a simple enough story about a gentleman who is madlyin love with an exceptional lady but who feels that he is not quite ready for marriage. A very familiar plot motif. What really carries this book then, and pulls the reader in, is the character of this exceptional lady, Miranda St. Germaine. Intelligent, capable, loyal and independent, Miranda is the kind of aristocratic heroine you wish there were more of. And I couldn't help but feel for this woman who, in spite of her bitter disappointment and anguish, has been living in the quiet hope that Daniel will come to his senses and court her again. Daniel, charming and debonair though he was, was a bit of a prat. And I have to say that after he had bruised Miranda's heart and feelings for the third time in a row, I really began to wonder if he deserved her. All in all though, \\"Truly a Wife\\" proved to be an engrossing read. The plot contrivance to get Miranda and Daniel together was a bit much (won't go into it so that I'm not accused of plot spoilers), and Daniel was a bit feeble, but stalwart Miranda made this a worthwhile and engaging read. And I'd rate \\"Truly a Wife\\" as a good 3  star read. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-10
282899:US	52830980	R12W7QMY62OFJA	044024241X	41541734	Funeral Music (Sara Selkirk Mysteries)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	a superbly plotted and extremely intriguing read	I do enjoy coming across a new British mystery series, and by the looks of things I'm going to derive a lot of fun from reading the next two installments in the Sara Selkirk mystery series scheduled to be released later this year. Well plotted, intriguing and full of beautiful and lush descriptions of modern day Bath, \\"Funeral Music\\" was a treat to read from beginning to end. <br /> <br />Suffering from an emotional breakdown that has prevented her from performing for quite a while, world renowned cellist has retreated to her cottage in Bath where she marks time exercising and giving cello lessons to Detective Chief Inspector Andrew Poole. And while her friends have been worried, none of them have met with any success in persuading Sara to perform publicly again. However her good friend, James has had enough, and manages to bully her into performing with him at the Pump Room. Giving in with bad grace, little did Sara expect that this one act would catapult into the middle of a murder investigation when she discovers the body of the Director of Museums and Civic Leisure Resources dead in one of the baths. Because Andrew is in charge of the investigations, Sara finds herself privy to all sorts of information, and when people she likes and care about come under police scrutiny, Sara finds herself reluctantly playing detective. And although she feels strangely invigorated, Sara will have to pay great care that her investigations don't land her on the killer's hit list... <br /> <br />What made \\"Funeral Music\\" so much fun to read was not so much the mystery at hand (if you're an avid mystery buff, you can more or less figure out what's going on about half way through the book) as the characters involved. Morag Joss has peopled her novel with characters that are engaging, flawed and sympathetic. Wanting to know what would happen to most of the characters had me glued to the pages till the very end. Another plus factor, \\"Funeral Music\\" was that this was an extremely well written book - the language, and the manner in which the book was framed was brilliantly done. And let no one tell you differently, a well written book is almost a rarity these days. So am I looking forward to the next Sara Selkirk mystery novel? Goodness, yes. If nothing else it will be fascinating to see how the author handles the  relationship that's brewing between Sara and DCI Andrew Poole.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-10
283325:US	52830980	R3BD5V9M967DY4	0312331916	959762349	The Illuminator	Books	5	5	5	N	N	a wonderfully engrossing and compelling debut novel	England in 1379 is a seething caldron of tensions. Edward III is dead and his son, the boy king, Richard II, is under the strict guardianship of his powerful royal uncles, the Duke of Lancaster (John of Gaunt) & the Duke of Gloucester. And as these two dukes jockey for the upper hand, cracks are beginning to appear in the feudal system: there are two popes, one in Avignon, and one in Rome, both issuing different edits and both demanding the loyalties of the faithful; intellectual clerics like John Wycliffe are questioning the absolute power of the church and its apparent corruptions; whilst the serfs and the poor freed men question the amount of taxes they have to pay and their position at the bottom of the social order. Amidst all this, Lady Kathryn, mistress of Blackingham Manor, widow of a profligate lord, and mother to two grown-up sons faces a decreasing income because of her dishonest steward and because of the increasing amounts of both church tithes and the state taxes. At her wit's end, Lady Kathryn doesn't know how she will be able to go on, especially when she discovers that her husband had rather imprudently tied the family's fortunes to John of Gaunt without a thought to possible power shifts. Deeply afraid that she and her sons may loose everything, Lady Kathryn is relieved when the Father Abbot of Broonholm Abbey offers to stand her friend if she would do him the favour to taking in two lodgers: the illuminator, Finn, and his beautiful daughter, Rose. Lady Kathryn agrees, never anticipating how the enigmatic Finn, with his many dangerous secrets, and beautiful Rose would affect everyone, and so change their lives (her's in particular) forever... <br /> <br />I was truly impressed by Brenda Rickman Vantrease's \\"The Illuminator.\\" It was a gloriously splendid read - captivating, engaging and completely compelling. On a level of excellence, I'd say that it was up there with Gregory's \\"The Other Boleyn Girl.\\" I enjoy historical novels, mostly for their historical component, but what I liked about \\"The Illuminator\\" was that although the author had chosen a period of great historical activity, the historical events, while a vital ingredient to the novel, never high jacked the book completely. Because, \\"The Illuminator\\" is almost completely a character driven novel. And Ms Vantrease has peopled her book (both primary and secondary characters) with compelling personalities that are real, fully realized and multi-faceted -- characters that are capable of  great acts of charity, courage, kindness and understanding and who yet exhibit jealousy, small mindedness and prejudices; as well as the stock unlikable characters that are petty, motivated by greed, power and anger. And this is what made the book so very readable and absorbing. How will Lady Kathryn weather the storm that is about to break? Will Finn's many secrets lead to his undoing? Excellently plotted, suspenseful (you could almost taste the sense of urgency and tension that some of the characters felt) full of rich detail (the author did a fantastic job of detailing life in a small manor), and full of tantalizing historical bits, \\"The Illuminator\\" was a treat to read from beginning to end. In fact I liked it so much that I sat down and read it again as soon as I had finished!! So, believe all the rave reviews, this is a read not to be missed. And my advice is that you not waste your hard-earned money on any of the so called best sellers out there and buy and read this fantastically engrossing and absolutely brilliant book instead!   <br />	2005-04-10
289684:US	52830980	R34PN7HWGFFMKY	0312329644	823900663	Sick of Shadows: An Edwardian Murder Mystery (Edwardian Murder Mysteries)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	a nice, light entertaining read	Before she wrote her highly acclaimed Hamish MacBeth mystery series, Marion Chesney was better known for her historical romance novels, esp for her Regency-era romance novels like the Six Sisters series and the Poor Relatives series. With this Edwardian-era Lady Rose Summer & Captain Harry Cathcart mystery series, Marion Chesney marries the two genres, mystery and romance, giving readers who enjoy a light mystery that's tinged with some romance, a rather entertaining read. <br /> <br />In order to stop the Earl and Countess of Hadfield from shipping their beautiful and rebellious daughter, Lady Rose, to India so that she can find a husband there (Lady Rose has disgraced herself by taking part in a suffragette rally), Captain Harry Cathcart has proposed to Lady Rose that they pretend to be engaged. That way her parents, while they may bemoan the fact that their daughter is engaged to an eccentric, will have to let her stay on in England, and Lady Rose can have some breathing space to either find a husband more suited to her needs or wait to attain her majority. Needless to say Lady Rose eagerly agrees to the plan. But this pretend engagement is not all it's cracked up to be, Lady Rose finds, because the Captain, busy with his private detective work, is seldom at the lady's side, and people are beginning to make some rather snide remarks. Quite bored and unhappy, Lady Rose finds company in her misery in the Season's latest sensation, Dolly Tremaine. Fresh from the country, Dolly is finding her first season to be very overwhelming and her parents' pushing expectations that she marry well, extremely trying. But this promising friendship is cut shot when Dolly is found floating in the river, a la the Lady of Shalott (she had been brutally stabbed and then artfully arranged in death). The newspapers are quick to exploit the lurid details of Dolly's death, esp when they discover that Lady Rose, well known for being involved, previously, in two other murders, was a close friend of Dolly's. Does Rose know more than she's letting on about Dolly's murder? they speculate. And when Lady Rose receives a letter threatening her life, Captain Cathcart is summoned. Who is threatening Lady Rose? Does she actually know something that could unmask Dolly's murderer? Will Captain Cathcart save the beautiful and impetuous Lady Rose from a determined murderer? And will Cathcart and Lady Rose ever reveal their true feelings to each other? <br /> <br />The mystery subplot is a rather light one -- few suspects and with practically no interesting plot twists -- and actually plays second fiddle to the subplot involving Lady Rose's growth as an individual and her feelings for Harry Cathcart (equal parts frustration at his high-handed and remote manner towards her, plus attraction to Harry in spite of how much he angers her). So if you're looking for a compelling and perplexing mystery novel, this may not be the book for you. On the other hand, if you're looking for a light but entertaining read that dwells on the foibles of Society, \\"Sick of Shadows\\" is just the read for you.	2005-04-04
291105:US	52830980	R10COSCITXH49I	0871138875	299455153	Blood from a Stone: A Commissario Guido Brunetti Mystery	Books	4	25	28	N	N	4 1/2 stars: an excellent and lyrical read	Reading Donna Leon's Commissario Guido Brunetti is always a treat for me, and this latest Brunetti installment proved to be as engrossing and as enjoyable as previous books in the series. But truth be told, the mystery took a while to unfold, and unwound at a much slower rate than previous mysteries. On the other hand, this difference still not affect the overall lyricism or grace of the book. Commissario Brunetti is still a policeman whose main objective is to do his job well, honestly and fairly, in spite of the corruption around him. In this case, \\"Blood From a Stone,\\" Brunetti tries to discover why a Senegalese street peddler, a vu cumpra, was professionally shot down in public. Because the man was, in all probability, an illegal immigrant, the police have little to no knowledge of who he was or why he was killed; and because of his illegal status, the likelihood of someone coming forward to identify him and provide vital details is next to nil. Frustrated but undaunted, Brunetti and his faithful colleagues (Vianello & Signorina Elettra) plod on, using whatever useful contacts they have to learn more about the Senegalese immigrants, and why someone would want to kill one of them. But even before they can get very far in their investigations, they're warned off by Vice-Questore Patta (Brunetti's boss the bane of his life). Patta intimates that they'd all be better off if Brunetti backs off. And while Brunetti is not a big fan of Patta's, he cannot help but wonder who could scare or influence Patta enough to ensure that he warned Brunetti off. Irreggardless of Patta's warning, Brunetti presses on, only to make a discovery among the dead man's things that really puts the fat on the fire... <br /> <br />In spite of the sedate pacing, \\"Blood From a Stone\\" was still a fantastic read. Donna Leon is a masterful storyteller. Competently, she sets the stage -- the Christmas season in Venice, the cold, the tourists, the vu compra and the invisible life they seem to lead --and then, brilliantly, without lecturing, she makes political point, fusing it to the novel and making it the focal point of the book. But everything is gracefully done, making this incredibly engaging novel a very riveting read. And at the heart of everything, is the series' moral and stalwart hero, Commissario Guido Brunetti, a man whose need to discover the truth and punish the guilty, is what makes this series (and this book, in particular) so very compelling and enjoyable. All in all an excellent read, not to be missed.	2005-04-03
292100:US	52830980	RX4N18GT9L5T0	0060591781	378357648	The Serpent on the Crown (Amelia Peabody Mysteries)	Books	5	68	81	N	N	an enthralling read	This latest Amelia Peabody installment may not be the most perplexing mystery novel in the series, but it certainly was a very well written, entertaining and engaging one. From the very first page, I was hooked, and enjoyed myself thoroughly as I followed the latest adventure that the Emerson family and their friends find themselves entangled in. <br /> <br />It's 1922, and with the long ban on archeological activities finally lifted, the Emerson family (noted archeologist Professor Emerson, his wife Amelia Peabody, their son, Ramses and Ramses' wife, Nefret, along with their precocious 4 year old twins) are back in Egypt, hoping to carry on their work of delving into the long hidden mysteries of the past. But their enterprise is soon interrupted when Mrs. Pringle Petherick, comes to them for help. Mrs. Petherick (otherwise known as Magda von Ormond, authoress of several sensational vampire novels), the widow of Pringle Petherick, a well known collector of ancient Egyptian artifacts, believes that one of her husband's acquisitions, is cursed, that her husband died of the curse, and that the curse has been transferred onto her. What Mrs. Pringle wants is to leave the artifact with Emerson to perform an exorcism, lifting the curse, and for Emerson to return the artifact to the tomb from which it was stolen. While neither Emerson nor his canny wife, Amelia, believe that the Petherick widow really believes in the curse, they are intrigued by the artifact itself: a golden figure of a crowned king, probably from time of the heretical king, Akhenaton. But which tomb did the unscrupulous thieves discover the artifact in, and where is it? As Emerson, Amelia and the rest hunker down to find the artifact's true place of origin, things become further perplexing when the widow's stepchildren demand the return of the artifact, and the widow goes missing. Is the widow a victim of the \\"curse?\\" Or is she playing some deeper game? Fortunately, Amelia and Emerson have a host of friends and relatives (most notedly, Emerson's rogue half-brother, Sethos) to help sift fact from fiction... <br /> <br />Never mind that compared to earlier works the mystery subplot is not very compelling, and that the suspicious characters are easy to pinpoint from the very beginning, \\"The Serpent of the Crown\\" was still a very suspenseful and intriguing read, and was just pure fun to read. I enjoyed catching up with the Emerson-Peabody clan and all their friends (will Bertie ever win Jumana's affections? I'm hoping that he finally does!); and this subplot to do with Akhenaton and Tutankhamon was a nice touch -- though I'd have liked it if there had been a little more on this. All in all though, \\"The Serpent on the Crown\\" was a very enjoyable, engrossing and engaging read, full of excitement and humour, and a real treat of a read. An enthralling read! <br />	2005-04-02
299577:US	52830980	RN7Y3XTH92ENY	0312323417	333419773	Badger's Moon: A Mystery of Ancient Ireland (Sister Fidelma Mysteries)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	a real page turner not to be missed	Fast paced and suspenseful, this latest Sister Fidelma mystery novel was a real page turner and is, so far, one of the best reads of the year. <br /> <br />All is not well at Cinel na Aeda: some mad person has been violently killing the young girls of the village. So far there have been three such deaths, each has been brutally cut up, and each was murdered when the moon was full. The chieftain of the village, Becc, is at his wit's end as to how to proceed -- his chief brehon is dead, and three strangers (all religious) who are currently staying at the Abbey of Finbarr are suspected by the villagers of having committed the murders -- and because he is a cousin of Colgu (the King of Murman and Fidelma's brother) Becc decides to go to ask Colgu for help. Or specifically to ask that Fidelma, a well known advocate of the courts and crime solver, come to Cinel na Aeda to investigate and help apprehend the murderer. A new mother, Fidelma is finding motherhood not all that it is cracked up to be and is almost relieved to be asked to solve this latest puzzle, much to her companion, Brother Eadulf's chagrin. But he agrees to go along with her to the village and to help her investigate. And Fidelma will need Eadulf's help for the case is very perplexing indeed and things at the village are very tense: the three girls were well liked and the villagers are scared and angry and ready for revenge. Confronted with prejudice against the mysterious strangers, closed mouth villagers and a lack of evidence, Fidelma will need to use every bit of her reasoning faculties in order to sort out this puzzle and so catch a seemingly insane killer... <br /> <br />Rich in historical and cultural detail and complete with a mystery subplot that actually invites the reader to reason along with Fidelma, \\"Badger's Moon\\" was a treat to read from beginning to end. The book was fast paced, and the suspense and tension was evenly maintained throughout. And not only were there enough red herring suspectsand plot twists to keep any mystery addict happily preoccupied, the author also added a psychological element into the mix by juxtaposing a crisis that Fidelma was personally facing at the latest twist her life has taken (motherhood) and her not so nice (but completely understandable) feelings she had about it all. So that all in all readers are in for a very intriguing and compelling read, especially since they will be able to solve the mystery along with Fidelma -- though I'm not so sure about the cliffhanger at the end, even if it does make for some very slick marketing. <br />	2005-03-28
300209:US	52830980	R2Z6CS2FPZOJTO	0786714921	840192986	Death of a Chancellor: A Murder Mystery Featuring Lord Francis Powerscourt	Books	4	6	8	N	N	an excellent read	Perhaps the most perplexing of David Dickinson's Lord Francis Powerscourt mystery novels to date, \\"Death of a Chancellor\\" proved to be an absorbing read in spite of its sedate pacing.  <br /> <br />The book opens with the Chancellor of Cathedral of Compton's butler discovering that his master has been murdered in a most horrific manner. Wanting to protect his master's, John Eustace, reputation, the butler, together with the help of Eustace's good friend, Dr. Blackstaff, arrange it so that everyone will believe that Eustace died suddenly of an ailment at the doctor's house, as well as to have the coffin sealed so that no one will see the manner in which Eustace was murdered. All goes as Dr. Blackstaff and Eustace's butler plan but for Eustace's sister. It so happens that Eustace was a very rich man, and his sister, Augusta Cockburn, has hopes of inheriting some of that money. To that end, she's been a constant and regular visitor to her brother's home, and something about the manner in which things have been handled awakes her suspicions that her brother was murdered. And so she hires Lord Francis Powerscourt, one of the best private investigators in England, to look into her brother's death. Newly returned from South Africa, Lord Francis is loath to take a case that would separate him, again, from his family. But his compassionate wife, Lady Lucy, persuades him to take the case. And soon, Lord Francis finds himself in the village of Compton Cathedral, gently probing into the late chancellor's death. Initially, he finds little to substantiate Mrs. Cockburn's beliefs, save that, like her, he too thinks that the butler and Dr. Blackstaff are lying about the circumstances surrounding the chancellor's death. But does that make it murder? And if he was murdered, doesn't his own avaricious and unlikable client, Mrs. Cockburn, rate as a suspect as well given her eagerness to claim her brother's wealth? And then one of the choristers is strangled and his body found roasted on the great spit in the Vicars Hall kitchen. Is there a madman on the loose targeting Compton's churchmen? Lord Francis senses that there is something sinister afoot, and that the killer is mad and full of hate. But even he is unprepared for the scope of what's going on in Compton Cathedral as he slowly uncovers all the cathedral's secrets and unmasks a cunning and ruthless killer in the process... <br /> <br />If you enjoyed Anthony Trollope's Barchester novels, you might just enjoy \\"Death of a Chancellor\\" as well -- it reads a little like a more sinister version of the Barchester books, full of church politics and complete with differing characters, both churchmen and villagers who make their home in the cathedral village and who take an interest in what's going on in their cathedral. But going back to \\"Death of a Chancellor,\\" this was an extremely well written and intelligent mystery novel, full of interesting historical facts about the history of the Anglican Church in England that David Dickinson cleverly incorporated into the plot. The pacing was, as I've already noted, a little sedate. But this was not too great a detraction and actually fitted in with the manner in which the plot was allowed to unfold. Also well done was the manner in which David Dickinson presented and 'fleshed out' his characters -- both series regulars and the ones involved in this installment alone. Atmospheric (the vivid manner in which he brought the cathedral village and all its splendid buildings to life only enhanced my reading pleasure) and quite compelling, Death of a Chancellor\\" was an engrossing read from start to finish. Set in 1901, around the time Queen Victoria died and her son, Edward VI, was crowned king, a sense pervades the book of some things/institutions ending, and of a new age, but not necessarily a better age, beginning. All in all, a rather powerful read.	2005-03-27
300818:US	52830980	R1MK9VIIXGSFMT	0553802259	76736849	Jane and His Lordship's Legacy (Jane Austen Mystery)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	a wonderfully engrossing read	The joy in reading Stephanie Barron's excellent Jane Austen mystery series, for me, lies not always in the mystery at hand (though they are rather good), but rather in the manner in which Ms Barron has successfully and brilliantly captured the inimitable Miss Austen's prose style, the manner in which she describes scenes and incidents and the manner in which she vividly portrays her characters. No one, to my mind, has ever successfully recaptured Jane Austen's voice to such an extent. And Stephanie Barron deserves all the praise for her hard work (I especially enjoy all those footnotes) and all her meticulous research. \\"Jane and His Lordship's Legacy,\\" the latest Jane Austen mystery, was a joy to read. It takes place in 1809, when Jane and her mother had moved to the village of Chawton in Hampshire, where Jane's brother, Edward, owns property.  <br /> <br />Edward has decided to move his female relatives into his dead bailiff's cottage in Chawton village, thus displacing the bailiff's widow, and provoking much displeasure amongst the villagers. Jane, still grieving privately for the  death of Lord Harold Trowridge, a gentleman with whom she had solved several mysteries, and whom she had come to love quite deeply, is quite thrown to discover that the villagers view the Austens with suspicion and displeasure; and further, that residing in Chawton is one Jack Hinton, who claims that he, and not Jane's brother Edward, is the rightful heir to all the Hampshire estates that Edward will inherit from his rich relatives, the Knights, who had adopted Edward at an early age as their heir. If that is not all, on the very day that the Austen women move into their new abode, Jane receives a visit from Lord Trowbridge's lawyer and learns that Lord Trowbridge has left her all his papers and letters, so that she may write a memoir of his life. Lord Trowbridge's relatives are in an uproar over the legacy and have allowed people to believe that Jane was once Trowbridge's lover. Undeterred by all the malicious gossip surrounding her (to her mother's chagrin), Jane is resolved to read Trowbridge's letter and diaries and to write memoir that he believed only she could write. But even before Jane can delve into his lordship's papers, she discovers the dead body of a labourer is her cellar. A coroner's inquest reveals that the dead man, Shafto French, was murdered. Who killed him, and why was he left in Austens' cellar? Even as a very curious Jane considers these questions, the chest containing Trowbridge's papers is stolen. This coincides with the arrival of the enigmatic Julian Thrace, a gentleman whom it is rumoured is the new heir to the Earl of Holbrook, and his half-sister, Lady Imogen (the Earl's acknowledged daughter), whom Julian would displace as heiress to her father's riches. Could the theft be tied to the newcomers' presence? The quiet village of Chawton is suddenly hopping with activity! Nonetheless, Jane is determined to solve the mystery of the dead man in her cellar and to recover her chest. And with both her brothers, Edward's and Henry's, help she just might do so... <br /> <br />Stephanie Barrons'Jane Austen series only seems to get better and better. Fast paced and thoroughly engrossing, \\"Jane and His Lordship's Legacy\\" was a treat to read from beginning to end. The mystery subplot was a little bare, but what made this novel work and a joy to read was how the author presented her characters and the straits they find themselves in. It was all very realistic and believable. I, especially, liked that both of Jane's brothers were prominently featured and that they assisted her without quibbling at all. The respect and affection they had for their sister was evident. At the same time they were not above teasing her wickedly when the occasion so presented itself. It spoke of the kind of relationship the Austens had, and made the book a more heartwarming read. All in all, a thoroughly pleasing read, not to be missed whether or not you're a Jane Austen fan.	2005-03-26
304554:US	52830980	R1I1JMY1R0W56V	0399152423	97076248	Rules of Engagement (Sir John Fielding)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	a satisying end to a wonderful series	Reading Bruce Alexander's \\"Rules of Engagement\\" truly was a very bittersweet experience for me: I was sad that this was, definitely, the very last Sir John Fielding/Jeremy Proctor mystery novelthat I would ever read, but I was pleased that I had at least this last enjoyable and absorbing installment in this series to enjoy. And on the whole, I had a very pleasurable experience.  <br /> <br />The Lord Chief Justice, William Murray, the Earl of Mansfield, does not always turn to Sir John Fielding, the blind justice of Bow Street for help. But when Mansfield's old school friend, Lord Lammermoor, throws himself off Westminister Bridge in front of a host of witnesses (including his current mistress and Sir John's ex-cook, actress Annie Oakum) and plunges to his death, Mansfield's perturbed. Nothing about Lammermoor's private or public life gives a hint as to why Lammermoor would seek to end his life. And fearful that his friend will be condemned as a suicide and suspecting that there was something dark about his friend's death, Mansfield begs Sir John to investigate. And even though the coroner has ruled Lammermoor's death as 'death by misadventure,' several strange instances about what happened on the bridge gives Sir John pause -- like who was the mysterious, heavily cloaked man who briefly spoke to Lammermoor as he passed him? what did he say? and why did Lammermoor climb onto the railing and flap his arms before he threw himself off the bridge? Sir John suspects something dark and sinister is at the root of Lammermoor's death, but it is only when he goes to a demonstration of animal magnetism give by Dr. Goldsworthy, a student of Dr. Anton Mesmer, that he begins to get a notion as to what may have happened. And together with the help of his able assistant, Jeremy Proctor, Sir John is determined to bring the murderers of Lord Lammermoor to justice, in spite of the danger involved... <br /> <br />\\"Rules of Engagement\\" was a thoroughly enjoyable read, even if it was a rather easy puzzle to figure out. But I did enjoy it enormously, savouring every word, phrase and plot twist. It was well written, evenly paced and full of period detail, thus making for a very vivid and colourful read. I also liked how things were tied up, and the book ended with Jeremy's and Clarissa's marriage, and the intimation that Jeremy was now ready to begin his own law practice. \\"Rules of Engagement\\" may not be the most perplexing mystery read of the year, but it definitely was an enjoyable and engaging read, and I for one am going to miss the fact that there will no longer be any more Sir John Fielding/Jeremy Proctor mystery novels. With this series, Bruce Alexander created something special that will definitely stand the test of time and that will always be remembered as one of the better historical mystery series ever created. <br />	2005-03-23
305217:US	52830980	RD91F9EH4XEP2	0821777165	469173486	Lady Olivia To The Rescue (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	a light, fast and ultimately undemanding read	\\"Lady Olivia to the Rescue\\" is not a very deep or complex book; rather, it is a perfectly simple and straight forward tale of two people who are perfectly matched for each other, but who take a while (the hero, the Marquess of Sheridan, especially) to realise that they're a perfect fit. Lady Olivia Cunningham is not only beautiful and rich, but she's also one of the kindest women in London. Not content to merely flit from entertainment to entertainment, Lady Olivia quietly runs several charitable enterprises in the heart of London, trying to find homes and jobs for the poor and dispossessed. Everyone likes and thinks well of her; except for the stern and misanthropic Marquess of Sheridan thinks that Lady Olivia is a nitwit and a coquette. Fate, however, is about to throw Lady Olivia in the marquess' path, and allow him to discover that Lady Olivia is far more than he perceives her to be, and that she would make him an excellent wife -- if only the stubborn man would open his eyes and his heart.  <br /> <br />That in the nutshell is what this novel is all about: the Marquess of Sheridan discovering that Lady Olivia is his equal (or perhaps his superior) in every way, even as he denies his strong feelings for her, quite content to molder in a sea of jealousy because he's afraid that she has fallen in love with his rakish best friend. As such, \\"Lady Olivia to the Rescue\\" was a very fast, undemanding and ultimately, very unrewarding read. There are several interesting bits involving Lady Olivia's charitable efforts and her relationships with her servants and dependents, which would have made the book more interesting for me if those bits had been developed more. Likewise an undeveloped thread about the marquess' uneasy relationship with his young son. The thing about this novel that really bothered me however was the marquess' jealousy and his lack of trust. Right up till the end he suspects Lady Olivia and his best friend of playing him false. And while there are somemitigating circumstances for his jealousy, I'm not sure if it bodes well when a man professes to love a woman, but doesn't seem able to trust her to behave honourably.	2005-03-22
306906:US	52830980	R1LCAAGV0B9AOA	0451214595	752010714	Lady Larkspur Declines (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A good 3 star read	On the very night that her engagement is to be announced, Lady Larkspur learns that she's been jilted (yet again) by her rogue of an ex-fiance. Angry and stricken by the scandal that this very public jilting has brewed, Lady Larkspur is further horrified to discover that her father, eager to contain the scandal, has contracted her to marry the aged Lord Raeborn. And so Lady Larkspur concocts a plan in which she pretends to be fading away from the grief at having been jilted, hoping that her pretend illness will make her new fiance cry off. But what she does not contend on is her fiance's troublesome cousin, the handsome and self-assured doctor, Benedict Queensman. For the hateful man has seen through her scheme, and has suggested that Lady Larkspur (along with her best friend, Janet, in attendance) remove to a sanitarium in Brighton, where he can keep an eye on her progress. Suddenly a host of problems that Lady Larkspur never envisioned begins to arise: like the fact that because everyone thinks that she's an invalid she's quite confined to her rooms, except when she's pushed about in an invalid's chair, that is (how boring!); and the fact that the hateful Mr. Queensman is constantly in attendance. How she dislikes him! Why then does she feel so depressed at the thought that Mr. Queensman may be attracted to Janet?    \\"Lady Larkspur Declines\\" starts off strong; unfortunately for me (anyway) I got the sense that halfway through the novel, the author changed her mind a little about Lady Larkspur's character. When we first meet Lady Larkspur, she's charactersied as strong-mined, intelligent, willful, spoilt, manipulative and a little bit of a snob. Her sharp tongue has earned her at least 4 jiltings in spite of her beauty. And her rude and snobbish treatment of Benedict Queensman when they first meet seemed to have been especially written to crystallise her character. So that when Lady Larkspur concocts that scheme to get out of her unwanted engagement and finds herself at a sanitarium in Brighton under the care of Mr. Queensman, I thought the book would be one of those romance novels in which a proud beauty learns a much needed lesson about manipulative behaviour. One of my favourite Regency-era romance novelists, Marion Chesney, was well know for writing clever little novels like these. But I think that Sharon Sobel was in two minds about her heroine: for we're told, initially that Lady Larkspur is quite spoilt and willful (we're even shown instances of this), and then in later chapters we're told that Lady Larkspur is actually quite caring, and is only being willful and deceitful because she doesn't want to marry the aged Lord Raeborn. I began to feel as if Lady Larkspur suffered from a split personality. And while I felt quite sympathetic towards the lady -- no one really wants to marry someone at least three times their age, especially if you have no affection for them -- Lady Larkspur's careless use of Janet's friendship, her lack of care about her sisters' worry about her health, and her constant rudeness towards Mr. Queensman, really began to grate and almost canceled out my feelings of sympathy for her. The other problem I had with the book was the almost non-exsistant romance subplot. Lady Larkspur and Mr. Queensman are powerfully attracted to each other. But she's confused by her powerful feelings of attraction which seem to act as a counterpoint to her anger at him for seeing through her act and putting her through her paces; Mr. Queensman is attracted to Lady Larkspur but is frustrated by her lies and by the fact that she's engaged to marry his cousin whom he's quite fond of. The romance between these two never really goes beyond sparring and sniping until the last quarter of the book when Lady Larkspur realises her true feelings but also realises that nothing can come from this because she's honour-bound to marry Raeborn and that Mr. Queensman is honour-bound not to pursue her unless she's free. At that point the book does pick up as the author skillfully engages our feelings for the star-crossed pair. Also well done was the manner in which she sketched out the friendship between Lady Larkspur and her best friend, Janet; and the manner in which she used Brighton as a backdrop for this novel. However I wished that the entire intrigue subplot had been better explained. Obviously since George IV is King, the novel takes place after 1820; so that the intriguers rather than being foreign agents, must be men bent on revenge -- but this was just supposition on my part, and I'd rather have had an explanation from the author. All in all though, \\"Lady Larkspur Declines\\" is a worthy read; it is well written, with fully realised, complex and multifaceted characters. The book starts off well and ends well -- it's just the middle bits that floundered in a sea of nothing-much-really-happening except for Lady Larkspur and Mr. Queensman struggling to get the upper-hand (and I for one, got a little tired of this quite quickly). There's a good story here, and Sharon Sobel obviously has talent, and if she had only allowed Lady Larkspur to remain the willful young lady in need of a lesson, this would have been a more engaging read for me. As it is, I'd rate it as a good 3 star read.	2005-03-21
310663:US	52830980	R32Q99UCWGOI2A	0060545607	485010020	With No One As Witness (Thomas Lynley and Barbara Havers Novels)	Books	4	172	193	N	N	Elizabeth George is back in top form	When the naked body of a dead young boy is found mutilated and artfully arranged on top of a tomb, it opens up a whole can of worms for the Metropolitan Police Force of London, for it turns out that this is just the latest in a string of similar murders. The thing is that the previous victims had been either black or of mixed race and had been written off as gang related killings. This latest victim, however, is white and is inviting a whole lot of interest. Hoping to contain the accusations of racism and callousness, AC Hillier appoints acting Detective Superintendent Thomas Lynley to the case, assigning him newly promoted Detective Winston Nkata (window dressing in Hiller's mind for the public as Nkata is off Jamaican background) and allowing Lynley to keep fiery Detective Constable Barbara Havers on the team. Everyone quickly realises that they have a serial killer on their hands; and as they race to discover how many prior victims there were and identify them, and to try to establish a pattern of sorts that would give them a clue as to the killer's modus operandi, Lynley also has to contend with Hiller's need to direct the investigation and his desire that Lynley and his team cooperate with the newspapers. As the killings continue to mount, and as the police officers race to get a result, things take an unexpected and explosive turn, one that perhaps neither Lynley nor Havers will ever recover from.. <br /> <br />With \\"With No One as Witness\\" Elizabeth George is once again in top form. I was terribly disappointed with \\"A Place of Hiding,\\" and began to wonder if the Lynely-Havers mysteries would ever go back to becoming the compelling, dark reads that they once were. But this new Lynely-Havers installment reminded me of the old days, where I would devour each new installment in one go, relishing how both Lynely and Havers, using different points of reference would complement each other in order to solve the mystery at hand. Well crafted, and obviously meticulously researched (for example how the author effortlessly fleshes out the many grueling aspects of how a police investigation is conducted was truly awe-inspiring), this was definitely a labour of love. There was only one small detraction to \\"With No One as Witness\\" and that it was that the first half the novel was rather slow and heavy going. Fortunately Elizabeth George intersperses the slow moving initial police investigation with the chapters in which we are privy to the serial killers thoughts and movements. Chillingly and suspensefully describing how he stalks his young victims, and how he captures them (will the killer grab his victim without any problems, or will the victim escape at the last possible moment?), Ms George ably and competently conveys that \\"edge-of-your-seat\\" feeling. Also well done was the manner in which she conveys just how stressed out acting Detective Superintendent Thomas Lynley is becoming as he faces pressure from his superior (AC Hiller) to get a result quickly and to do things his way. As I noted before the pace does pick up about halfway through, and that coupled with the small plot twist should keep any mystery reader happily engrossed to the very end. And while some readers may be dismayed at the shocking turn the book takes, this only added to the pathos and promise of even darker installments to follow. All in all, \\"With No One as Witness\\" was an absorbing and compelling read that should not be missed.	2005-03-18
310885:US	52830980	R2PZMOJKFY7GFC	0373810903	204689629	The Unknown Ajax	Books	5	54	55	N	N	an absolute gem	Easily one of Georgette Heyer's more entertaining novels, \\"The Unknown Ajax\\" is definitely a book that can be read and reread several times over -- esp if you need a pick-me-up after a trying day at work.<br /><br />When Lord Darracott's eldest son dies in a sailing expedition, the old despot realises that he will have to send for the much despised grandson, Hugo. Hugo's father (the second son) had thumbed his nose on convention and had married the daughter of a weaver against his father's wishes. For this piece of impertinence, Lord Darracott, had barred son and family from Darracott Place and had forbade anyone to make any mention of either son or grandson in his hearing. But now, with the death of the heir, Hugo Darracott, much despised grandson of a weaver and son of an ungrateful child will become the next lord of all the Darracott lands, and the very thought of someone with so much unworthy blood in his veins stepping into his shoes is making Lord Darracott feel bilious. And to that end, he has summoned his entire family in order to give Hugo the polish he needs in order make him worthy of his inheritance and name; commanding his grandson Vincent to take him in hand, and proposing that his granddaughter, Anthea, marry Hugo so that she can help manage him, and \\"keep him in the family.\\" Both Vincent and Anthea are outraged by his lordship's proposals; but while Vincent has little choice but to comply (he has a very expensive lifestyle and needs his grandfather's handouts), Anthea has every intention of sending Hugo away with a flea in his ear. What none of the 'noble' members of the Darracott family counted on, however, was the man himself, Major Hugo Darracott of the 95th. Realising at once that his father's family seems to think of his an unpolished and uncivilsed dolt who can be easily intimidated, Hugo decides to play the part to the hilt, rather enjoying the effect that his playacting is having on his new family, and on his prickly cousin, Anthea, in particular...<br /><br />\\"The Unknown Ajax\\" definitely deserves to be considered as one of Georgette Heyer's gems: a masterpiece of wit, sarcasm and humour. From the very beginning the reader is let in on the big joke: that Hugo is actually a very intelligent and capable young man -- not the loob his grandfather and cousins assume he is. Reading of how he plays on their prejudices and sneaks in a jab or two at their expense makes for humorous and satisfying reading; and reading of how Hugo handles his prickly cousin Anthea, courting her with such wit and finesse (that even she little realises that he's actually trying to fix her interest until it's too late) was wonderful and romantic. In Hugo Darracott, Heyer has created a hero who is kind and considerate, with an impish sense of humour but who is no pushover (as his grandfather and male cousins will soon discover). Evenly paced, and well written, this clever and entertaining romance novel will keep most readers happily enthralled until the last page with all its happily ever-after endings. An excellent read.icular... <br /> <br />\\"The Unknown Ajax\\" definitely deserves to be considered as one of Georgette Heyer's gems: a masterpiece of wit, sarcasm and humour. From the very beginning the reader is let in on the big joke: that Hugo is actually a very intelligent and capable young man -- not the loob his grandfather and cousins assume he is. Reading of how he plays on their prejudices and sneaks in a jab or two at their expense makes for humorous and satisfying reading; and reading of how Hugo handles his prickly cousin Anthea, courting her with such wit and finesse (that even she little realises that he's actually trying to fix her interest until it's too late) was wonderful and romantic. In Hugo Darracott, Heyer has created a hero who is kind and considerate, with an impish sense of humour but who is no pushover (as his grandfather and male cousins will soon discover). Evenly paced, and well written, this clever and entertaining romance novel will keep most readers happily enthralled until the last page with all its happily ever-after endings. An excellent read.	2005-03-18
334638:US	52830980	R247NDQZMV34I9	0743477715	408829674	To Pleasure a Prince (Royal Brotherhood, Book 2)	Books	5	59	65	N	N	novel possesses everything for a good, satisfying read	The second installment in The Royal Brotherhood series, \\"To Pleasure the Prince\\" proved to be a very absorbing and engaging read. The series revolves around the lives of three half-brothers, all illegitimate children of England's Prince of Wales, George. The brothers are, Alexander Black, the Earl of Iversley; Marcus North, the sixth Viscount Draker; and Gavin Byrne, a powerful man in his own right even if he's not an aristocrat -- and they are united in their desire to help each other, and in their deep dislike for their natural father, the Prince of Wales. The first book, \\"In the Prince's Bed\\" was Alexander's story; this one focuses of the Viscount Draker, known to one and all as the Dragon Viscount. <br /> <br />Having decided at a very young age that he has no time for the shallow company of his peers, Viscount Draker has spent much of his time at his ancestral estate, Castlemaine, taking care of his younger sister, Louisa, and of his estates. All this changes, however, when Louisa comes of age and is ready to make her debut into society. Fortunately, Draker can count on the support of his married half-brother Alexander to sponsor Louisa's debut and to keep and eye on her. For Draker's greatest fear is that his royal father will try and reestablish his relationship with Louisa in order to get to him (Draker, that is). And his fears are realised when he discovers that Louisa is being courted by the Duke of Foxmoor, an intimate of the Prince's. Determined to drag Louisa back to Castlemaine (and to shoot Foxmoor if he must), Draker is startled beyond anything when Foxmoor's beautiful sister, Lady Regina Tremaine, turns up at his doorstep, determined to plead her brother's and Louisa's case. Intrigued and beguiled by Lady Regina's beauty and courage, Draker agrees to allow Foxmoor to court Louisa if he can court Lady Regina. Picking up the gauntlet that Draker has thrown down, Lady Regina agrees. A young woman who has been \\"out\\" in society foe quite a few years now,Lady Regina is quite used to handling men, and is sure that she handle the blunt, ill humoured and angry Dragon Viscount, who is rumoured to be an uncultured lout. But in Draker's case, Lady Regina is beginning to fear that she has bitten off more than she can chew. However, as the two begin to spend more time with each other, each begins to discover facets in the other's character that indicates that they are more suitably matched that either had ever thought possible. But Draker suffers from an instinctual distrust of beautiful women, and Lady Regina hides a shameful secret that she can never share with anyone. With these two seemingly insurmountable obstacles it looks as if this courtship will go no where in spite of the powerful attraction each has for the other. And then there is the awful suspicion that Lady Regina is beginning to have, that Draker may have been correct about the motive behind Foxmoor's courtship of Louisa. With her loyalties severely tested, and with her dark secret to hide, Lady Regina isn't sure about what she should to do or to whom she should turn for help... <br /> <br />I enjoyed \\"To Pleasure the Prince\\" from beginning to end. It's one of those novels that snares your interest from the very first page -- a hero with a tortured past, a heroine with a secret, and the passionate and sensual romance that develops between them -- if you're looking for a Regency-era romance novel that is character driven and that has everything necessary for a good, engrossing read, you can't go very wrong with \\"To Pleasure the Prince.\\" The pacing was even and well sustained; and the manner in which the author allowed the story to be told was well done as well. I liked the manner in which Sabrina Jeffries developed the romance between Draker and Regina -- she gave us a romance about two people who were not only passionately drawn to each other, but who also needed each other emotionally as well. Darker's and Regina's romance was not one of smooth sailings; it was full of ups and downs and mistakes that each makes before the cathartic ending when a happily-ever after ending is achieved. And it was emotionally fulfilling as a result. A well written novel (in spite of the many, many modern phrases), \\"To Pleasure the Prince\\" was a satisfying read from start to finish, and I'm eagerly looking forward to the next installment in the Royal Brotherhood.	2005-02-27
347096:US	52830980	R39V85I4025DKO	0892967951	333472833	Death of a Bore (Hamish Macbeth Mysteries, No. 21)	Books	4	25	25	N	N	great fun	Can \\"Death of a Bore\\" truly be the twentieth Hamish Macbeth installment? Apparently so. But even though the books follow an almost strict formulae, and the regular characters don't really step out of the mold that M. C. Beaton has given them, the Hamish Macbeth mystery novels remain as fresh and as entertaining as ever, and loads of fun to read. \\"Death of a Bore\\" was no exception to the rule. <br /> <br />When novelist and soap opera writer John Heppel moves to Cnothan (a village neighbouring Lochdubh), he advertises to teach a seminar on how to become a famous and published writer. Hamish Macbeth smells a disaster in the making, but even he is unprepared for how disastrously everything goes. For John Heppel is a total bore, more interested in talking about himself and promoting his talents than in actually teaching and helping anyone who has signed up for his classes. And it isn't too long before the arrogant man angers everyone by insulting their efforts and putting them down brutally. Angry, the villagers vow revenge. And when Heppel is found dead in his cottage, the entire village of Lochdubh ends up on the suspect list. Hamish immediately discounts the very notion that one of his people could have murdered Heppel, and is sure that someone Heppel knew in the soap opera world murdered the tiresome man. But at the back of his mind, he cannot help but fear that his famous instincts may have blinded him in this instance, and that someone he knows and cares about may be a killer after all... <br /> <br />Rich in wit and dark humour, \\"Death of a Bore\\" was a joy to read from start to finish. The story is a little formulaic, with few surprises, but the joy of this series lies in all the eccentric and taking characters that people this series. And then of course, there is Hamish's romantic entanglements, as well as his run-ins with fellow officers and superior officers who are jealous of his talents and suspicious of his lack of ambition. Add to this Beaton's vivid, romantic yet realistic depiction of the Highlands; throw in a nice little cozy mystery, and a sardonic prose style, and you have a book that is guaranteed to give you a few hours of reading joy. I thoroughly enjoyed \\"Death of a Bore\\" from beginning to end, and would recommend it as a delightful read <br /> <br />	2005-02-17
354168:US	52830980	R2ERZY1IVK040F	0525948600	2583852	The Secret History of the Pink Carnation	Books	5	48	64	N	N	a wonderful read	Warning: make sure that you have staked out enough of time to finish this novel before you begin this wonderful novel. It's another one of those unputdownables. Not because the books is tensely plotted, full of riveting twists and turns, but because it is one of those absolutely fun books that are a joy to read.  <br /> <br />After a dating debacle with her latest boy friend, graduate student Eliose Kelly applies for a grant to go to England do some research. Eliose is doing her doctoral thesis on British spies of the Regency period, spies like the Scarlet Pimpernel, the Purple Gentian and the Pink Carnation. And while everyone knows the identities of Scarlet Pimpernel and the Purple Gentian, the identity of the Pink Carnation has always been a mystery. And Eliose cannot find mention of him anywhere (not even the Public Records Office in Kew) except for in the tabloid-like newspapers. And so, quite desperate, she writes to the descendants of the Scarlet Pimpernel and the Purple Gentian, asking them for access to their records. She is rudely rebuffed by all except one: Mrs. Selwick-Alderly, a descendent of the Purple Gentian, invites her to tea, and obligingly enough gives her access to some letters in her possession. The letters are written by a young half-French lady, Aimee (Amy) Balcourt, a refugee of the French Revolution, who dreams of returning to France, and of helping her hero, the Purple Gentian, rout the despicable republicans who have taken over her country. Now, at lastin 1803, Amy's brother invites her to return home and to live with him. And for Amy, who has lived in rural Shropshire all these years dreaming of such an opportunity, it is a dream come true. And so, together with her favourite cousin and confidant, Jane, and a daunting chaperone, Miss Gwen, the three women cross the channel. Amy is sure that once she is in Paris, she will be able to quickly identify the English gentleman who is the Purple Gentian, and that he will gratefully accept her offer of help. But Amy is about to discover that dreams and reality are two different things, and that it might not be so easy to identify the Purple Gentian after all. And in the meantime, one must contend with that awful man, Richard Selwick, who, traitorously, seems to have no qualm about associating with the much despised republicans... <br /> <br />I shall always be thankful that Lauren Willig took up writing! \\"The Secret History of the Pink Carnation\\" was a delightful read -- witty, humorous and loads of fun. The book is split into two subplots, one that takes place in 1803 and focuses Amy, and the other one in modern times that focuses on Eliose. Both are well done and cleverly juxtaposed so that you're left desperately wanting to know more at once -- will Amy finally realise who the Purple Gentian is? And how will Eliose's relationship with Colin Selwick ever progress beyond sniping? Engaging and deeply engrossing, I enjoyed the book thoroughly from start to finish -- there were no false notes. And I'm avidly waiting for the next Pink Carnation installment, which will, I hope, feature quiet, efficient and intelligent Jane (my favourite character). And while I hate to sound like a gushing nitwick, thank you, again Lauren Willig, for this fabulous read!	2005-02-10
354207:US	52830980	R1X2TNB5NF9ZR7	0312338279	92726352	That Way Murder Lies: A Mitchell and Markby Mystery (Meredith and Markby Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	3 1/2 stars: enjoyable in spite of the rushed ending	Meredith Mitchell is rather looking forward to her upcoming marriage to Detective Superintendent Alan Markby, and their moving into the old vicarage. But first comes the packing, renovating of the vicarage and selling of both their current abodes. And in the meantime there is Meredith's old friend, Toby Smythe's return to England to enjoy. But Toby has a problem -- or more exactly a relative of his has. Alison Jenner, Toby's cousin's wife, has been receiving poison pen letters. About 25 years ago, Alison's aunt, Freda Kemp, was murdered, and Alison was tried for the crime. She was, however, acquitted of the charge. But now, she's receiving letters accusing of the murder and threatening to make her pay for her crime. Alison is near breaking point, and so Toby asks for Markby to talk to the Jenners and listen to their concerns. And although Markby is understandably reluctant to get unofficially involved in anything, he agrees to meet the Jenners. But before he can even start an investigation into the poison pen letters, Alison's stepdaughter is murdered in a manner similar to Freda Kemp. Is the murderer and the poison pen writer one and the same? Are the two murders, separated by 25 years connected at all? And what is Alison's part in all this? Is she innocent of all that is happening around her? Or is she hiding a darker and more sinister character? Detective Superintendent Markby must ask himself all these questions as he considers all the angles of this case... <br /> <br />This latest Mitchell & Markby mystery novel while enjoyable and intriguing, still felt a little off mainly because of the manner in which it suddenly culminated -- things were unfolding at a sedate but satisfactorily manner, when things suddenly picked up at a dizzy pace and clues and suspects came out of the woodwork for the explosive end. All very well, but I did still feel a little shortchanged -- perhaps if the real culprit could have been more than just a sinister suggestion in earlier chapters? All in all however, this Mitchell & Markby mystery novels was wonderfully engaging police cozy that was well written and loads of fun to loose oneself in. And in spite of my faintly aggrieved feelings, I did enjoy reading \\"That Way Lies Murder\\" quite a bit	2005-02-10
362649:US	52830980	R30SQ0MTK1823J	0451214234	851801274	A Most Unsuitable Man (Signet Historical Romance)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	every romance fan deserves to be gifted with such a novel...	Every romance reader deserves to be gifted with a novel like \\"A Most Unsuitable Man\\" every now and then -- a novel where the hero is honourable and thrilling, the heroine is intelligent and determined and where the romance is both passionate and poignant. A follow-up of \\"Winter Fire,\\" this is, for me anyway, one of the best romance novels that Jo Beverly has written to date.  <br /> <br />Damaris Myddleton has just inherited her ruthless father's fortune. And having lived quietly in the country near penury all these years, has decided that what she wants is to belong to the glittering world of the aristocracy. But in order to do that she would have to marry a titled gentleman. And after careful consideration, she settles on the impoverished Marquess of Ashart. Except that Ashart, having fallen in love with his aunts' companion, Genova Smith, opts to marry Genova instead, much to Damaris' humiliation. Now she must look for some other impoverished aristocrat to marry. Definitely she shouldn't waste any time of Ashart's good friend, Mr. Fitzroger. An adventurer, with a scandalous past and no money, Mr. Fitzroger is exactly the sort of person she should avoid. Except for the fact that he seems to understand her completely, that he makes her pulses and has agreed to stand her friend. Thrown together by unforeseen circumstances, Damaris and Fitzroger find themselves working together to untangle a tantalising secret; and the more Damaris comes to know Fitzroger, the more she begins to wonder about her plan to marry a title. After all, shouldn't an heiress be able to buy what she wants? And if she should want an adventurer who fires her blood and who matches her in intelligence and temperament, what's to stop her... <br /> <br />I've always preferred Jo Beverly's Georgian romances to her Regency-ear ones. Perhaps it's because she's given her Georgian heroes and heroines different temperaments from her Regency ones. Somehow, her Georgian heroes usually expect the heroines tobe intelligent and independent and courageous, and all bent out of shape if the heroine actually has a thought in her head! This was definitely the case in \\"A Most Suitable Man.\\" Damaris and Fitzroger were (obviously) a perfectly matched pair: Fitzroger was noble and honourable, while Damaris was determined and courageous. Each appreciated the other's sterling qualities, and worked well together to achieve their goal. And this, more than anything else, raised the passionate romance that developed between them to the level of a \\"once-in-a-lifetime-love.\\" So that all in all, I'd vote this as a romance novel not to be missed, and a definite keeper.	2005-02-03
363034:US	52830980	R16B2TP3BLK8HQ	0312931166	749137979	To Wed a Scandalous Spy (Royal Four, Book 1)	Books	3	22	25	N	N	an entertaining 3 1/2 star read	Celeste Bradley begins a new series (the Royal Four or the Quatre Royale) with \\"To Wed a Scandalous Spy,\\" dealing with spying and intrigue in Regency-era England. This series features four intrepid heroes, all of noble, aristocratic blood, all committed to protecting the realm no matter the cost. \\"To Wed a Scandalous Spy\\" features the head of the Royal Four as hero, who bears the codename Cobra, and who is in reality Nathaniel Stonewall, the Earl of Reardon.  <br /> <br />Readers were introduced to Reardon in \\"The Impostor\\" (Bradley's other Regency-spy series, the Liar's Club). In that book, Reardon had posed as a selfish, dissolute lord in order to infiltrate a group of French sympathisers, the Knights of the Lily. But that operation had left Reardon tarnished with the reputation of a traitor, and it was assumed by one and all (even his family) that the only reason he was never prosecuted for treason was because of his title. Ostracised and shunned, Reardon hasn't allowed the past to affect his work, even if he has been hurt by the reaction of family and one time friends. And now it looks as if one of the ex-members of the Knights, Forster, is back in England, bent of wreaking havoc again. But on the way to intercept and capture Forster, Reardon is felled in a country lane by a young lady with a slingshot. Trying to make up for her mistake, Miss Willa Trent, spends the night caring for a concussed Reardon, only to be discovered in the morning by her guardian. The upshot is that Reardon finds himself married to Willa. All at once, Reardon's life has become quite complicated, for not only is he a spy on a mission, but now he's also a spy with a wife he finds quite delectable -- a wife he'd like to appear a hero to, instead of the treasonous snake everyone assumes him to be! But can the Cobra afford to let go of the callous persona he has created? <br /> <br />While I enjoyed \\"To Wed a Scandalous Spy\\" on several levels, certain aspects of this novel (mostly the way things were tied up in the end) gave me pause. The book started off well, and Celeste Bradley did a good job of keeping things humming on an even and interesting vein. And then of course came that fatal last chapter in which certain things about Willa's family and past were revealed, and without going into plot-spoilers, all I can say is all those revelations just made no sense. For if they were true, than Willa's guardians behaved in a manner that could be termed as being completely irresponsible. That niggle aside, \\"To Wed a Scandalous Spy\\" was an entertaining read: the story was an interesting one, the hero was a fine and noble one, and the heroine, while a little scatty at first, will win approval because of her steadfast belief in Reardon. On the whole, an entertaining 3 1/2 star read.	2005-02-03
366307:US	52830980	R27MGOF6LFODMP	0316095656	443619920	Fleshmarket Alley	Books	5	0	0	N	N	an excellent read	When DI John Rebus' old police station gets reorganised, he and DS Siobhan Clarke end up at Gayfield Square. It's not exactly a neigbourhood Rebus is familiar with or all that comfortable with, but adding insult to injury is the silent message he's getting from his superiors that it is time he retired. So that when there is a brutal stabbing at one of the high-rise projects, Rebus finds himself seconded to help DI Davidson with the case. The victim looks foreign, and it does look as if it could be a hate crime. But inquiries lead the police into the world of people smuggling, asylum seekers and slave labour. Could the murdered man be a victim of something other than a hate crime then? In the mean time Siobhan finds herself drawn into the troubles of the Jardine family once more when their only surviving daughter goes missing days after her sister's rapist is released from prison. Has Ishbel runaway or has something awful happened to her? Siobhan is determined to save the save the remaining Jardine sister... <br /> <br />To begin with, this was an extremely well constructed novel -- possessing three separate subplots -- it was a real pleasure to see how the author juggled with these, never once losing his stride, always keeping the even pace and keeping the reader's interest firmly in the grasp of his hand. Not once did Rankin digress, and not once did he bore. The powerful manner in which he vividly depicted Whitemire and the plight of the asylum seekers stayed in my mind for several days. Rebus remains the intelligent, independent thinker he always was, while Siobhan seems to be coming into her own as an intelligent and canny detective, worthy of a series of her own. Like previous reviewers, I also wonder about where this relationship between Rebus and Siobhan is headed -- I suppose we'll have to wait and see. All in all, \\"The Fleshmarket Alley\\" proved to be an incredibly powerful and thought provoking read. It may not be the most suspenseful Rebus installment, orthe most chilling; but again, Rankin seems to have struck gold with the excellent manner in which he put everything together. Definitely a book worth recommending. <br />	2005-01-31
371549:US	52830980	R1UUPI1TQJDTDP	037381089X	196766806	A Civil Contract	Books	5	86	88	N	N	a superb read	Jo Beverly gives one of the best introductions I've ever read, and she's right -- you either love \\"A Civil Contract\\" or else you don't. I belong to the former camp because I not love this novel, I also think that it is probably the best Regency-era romance novel that Ms Heyer ever wrote. To begin with, \\"A Civil Contract\\" isn't what you'd usually expect from a Regency-era romance novel: the hero, Adam Deveril, has returned from the Napoleonic wars only to be greeted by the news that he has inherited a badly in-debt estate with his father's sudden death at the hunting field. A deeply honourable man with principles, Adam is willing to sell the estates and give up on his dream of marrying the love of his life, the beautiful and much pampered Julia Oversley. Fate steps in the shape a rich merchant, Jonathan Chawleigh. Mr. Chawleigh offers to help Adam settle his father's debts, save the estates and see that the rest of the Deverils are settled comfortably, if Adam will marry Mr. Chawleigh's plain and practical daughter, Jenny. And even though every feeling revolts at such a scheme, Adam finally agrees to the scheme so that his mother and sisters will be comfortable, and so that he can save his ancestral home. But will Adam be able to put aside his feelings for Julia and allow himself to feel some affection for practical Jenny? Or will he spend the rest of his life bitterly regretting that he had to give Julia up? <br /> <br />The novel centers on the first year of Adam's marriage to Jenny -- how the couple learn to live with each other, to understand each other and to cope with their families (in this case Adam's melancholy and slightly melodramatic mother, and Jenny's brash and over bearing father). Is their marriage a success? Does Adam come to love and value Jenny? I've always liked to think so. But not many readers have agreed; many believe that while Adam comes to value Jenny, all he feels for her is affection and gratitude. Whatever conclusion you come to however,it is undeniable that \\"A Civil Contract\\" is one the best, almost realistic look at an arranged marriage that has been recently written. Once again Ms Heyer makes us care for the principal characters involved and to hope that Adam really has come to passionately care for Jenny (as she so devoutly hopes that he one day will). \\"A Civil Contract\\" is a superbly written book, and is one that really should not be missed.	2005-01-27
374722:US	52830980	R2FY9S6DQTMAWW	077832138X	443972892	Deadly Illusions (Francesca Cahill Novels)	Books	3	14	15	N	N	a pleasant, undemanding read	Society sleuth Francesca Cahill should be bursting with happiness and glee: she's engaged to suave, rakish Calder Harte, who appreciates her intelligence and independence, and who has promised not to stand in her way. Except that circumstances and people keep trying to put a damper on her happiness. To begin with her father isn't too pleased with her engagement, and has only reluctantly agreed to it at her mother's cajoling. And then there is Calder's ex-mistress, Daisy, who is determined to drive a wedge between Francesca and Calder. And then there is Calder's jealously for his half-brother, police commissioner Rick Bragg, who Francesca was once enamored with. So that when Francesca begins to work closely with Bragg in order to nab a mad man who is attacking poor Irishwomen, her relationship with her fiance begins to feel the strains of jealousy and suspicion. Francesca is at her wit's end as to how she should cope with Calder's jealousy and the machinations of others. But in the meantime, there is a mad man to stop... <br /> <br />This latest Francesca Cahill was a fast and undemanding read, more for fans of the series than anything else, and perfect for the ultimate bus/train/'plane trip. The mystery subplot held few surprises even though it was a rather well conceived one -- longtime mystery addicts might be able to spot the mad killer at once, however. No, one does not really read the Francesca Cahill \\"Deadly\\" novels for the mystery at hand. Rather, one reads them in order to catch up with how various character are faring: is Francesca really over Rick Bragg, and is she happy with her engagement to the dangerously rakish Calder Hart? Will Rick make an attempt to mend his marriage with his estranged wife, Leigh Ann? Will Francesca's brother, Evan, marry his mistress, Bartolla? Or will he finally admit his feelings for Irish seamstress, Maggie Kennedy? And what will happen between artist Sarah Canning and Rick Bragg's other half brother, Rourke Bragg? How BrendaJoyce weaves in these intricate relationships into the mysteries at hand is what makes thsi series so fascinating. She makes us care for the characters and glad that some of the relationships (at least) are working out. I know that I'm rather glad that Francesca has realised her true feelings for Calder Harte -- he was always, in my opinion anyway, her perfect match. And how the murder subplot works to highlight these relationships is what makes eading \\"Deadly Illusions\\" so enjoyable. All in all, a pleasant undemanding read.	2005-01-25
377219:US	52830980	R3JOUT7SXVOGY3	0765305097	900085344	Suspense and Sensibility, Or First Impressions Revisited (A Mr. and Mrs. Darcy Mystery)	Books	5	36	37	N	N	not Jane Austen, but what fun anyway...	The second installment in the (in my opinion, anyway) entertaining Mr. & Mrs. Darcy mystery novels, featuring two beloved characters created by Jane Austen (Elizabeth Bennett & Fitzwilliam Darcy), \\"Suspense and Sensibility\\" proved to be a very absorbing and enjoyable read. The trick to enjoying this series (and this book in particular), is to leave all your notions of what a Mr. & Mrs. Darcy book should be like, as well as some of your expectations that you will be reading an Austen-like novel. Carrie Bebris uses many of the characters that Jane Austen created and made immortal, but that it all. The stories, the premise and how the characters sound and act, are wholly her own. And the result? In this instance, one rather delightful read. <br /> <br />After the unsettling events chronicled in \\"Pride and Prescience,\\" Elizabeth and Fitzwilliam Darcy had happily left London in order to return to the peace and tranquility of Pemberley. But a letter from her mother reminds Elizabeth of her obligation to see her younger sister, Kitty, credibly established. And so, Elizabeth and Darcy, with Kitty and Georgina (Darcy's younger sister) make for London in order to partake in all the festivities that constitute the London Season. Georgina, an heiress, has no troubles attracting suitors; but for Kitty, young girl with no fortune or impressive connections, the situation is quite different. So that when young Harry Dashwood of Norland, shows every sign preferring Kitty above all else, everyone is quite pleased. A young man of good fortune and an impressive estate, Harry Dashwood is quite the catch. So what if his mother is an unpleasant shrew who isn't pleased at all with her son's involvement with Kitty! But then soon after their engagement, Harry's behaviour and character seems to change almost overnight; and it's beginning to look as if Harry intends to emulate the scandalous behaviour of his great-grand uncle, Sir Francis Dashwood, one of the founding members of the Hellfire Club. The changes in Harry trouble Darcy and Elizabeth greatly, but they're not sure what to do about it. Their primary object is to protect Kitty from an imprudent match; but can they also save Harry from himself? <br /> <br />Written with slight gothic overtones, \\"Suspense and Sensibility\\" was a rather like and sparkling read. Carrie Bebris incorporates characters from Austen's \\"Sense and Sensibility\\" into this installment, and the result was wholly pleasing. The story may take a while to unfold since almost half the book dwells on Harry's courtship of Kitty, before things go so very wrong. But the strength of this novel lies in how the authour fleshed out her characters, so that she makes us care for them. Kitty, in this book, has grown up a little, and has gained some dignity and maturity. And Harry, for the first half of the book is an engaging and likable character as well. And it was nice to \\"meet\\" Elinor Ferrars again; it was even enjoyable to see how Lucy Ferrars (once Lucy Steele) had fared, as well as Harry's unlikeable mother, Mrs. John Daswood. Best of all however, was reading of how Elizabeth and Darcy interact as a married couple, united in their concerns and each bolstering and supporting the other. A trifle sedate in pace, but written with a light touch, \\"Suspense and Sensibility\\" proved to be a very enjoyable and worthwhile read.	2005-01-23
379814:US	52830980	R13EB1BIGCZ637	0312325398	207251456	The Distaff Side: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	an excellent read in spite of the faulty editing	In 1917, young Bertie Langham is all set to marry his longtime friend, the beautiful, rich and very eligible Mai Binnington, when his controlling mother, Augusta, discovers that Mai is (gasp) a suffragette. Forcing Bertie to take a stand -- i.e. that he demand Mai give up her association with the suffragettes, the Langham-Binnington alliance soon unravels, leaving Mai and Bertie to find other marital partners. Mai, soon finds herself engaged to another friend from childhood, Ned Fielding; while Bertie, at his mother's prodding finds himself being captivated by the mysterious Princess Zhenia Dashkov. What follows is a highly sympathetic yet satirical look at life amongst the British upper class as Mai and Bertie try to navigate matrimonial waters with partners who are a lot more than their placid facades imply they are... <br /> <br />It's true, that because so much happens within the 280 odd pages, and because the book covers a time period where so much happened, you'd expect a much thicker book, with a lot more drama. However, I found myself enjoying Elizabeth Palmer's understated book and her spare prose style immensely. Without resorting to over the top melodrama or descriptions, she was still able to vividly paint a scene, convey an impression and make her characters come alive and be easily recognizable. This is no mean feat, and it definitely made reading \\"The Distaff Side\\" a pleasure. On the other hand, it was also true that the editing job was not well done, and I do hope that the author took her publishers to task about this. On the whole though, this was a very enjoyable and absorbing read: the writing was superb and the characters, whether you liked them (Mai) or really disliked them (Augusta), were fully realised and not caricatures. In fact I could imagine a very tasteful Masterpiece Theatre production based on \\"The Distaff Side\\" as I was reading this clever novel. An excellent read, esp if you enjoy books with women as central figures.	2005-01-20
380598:US	52830980	R9FPXN5LRFFVS	0451210352	61819808	Miss Whitlow's Turn (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	enjoyable and charming	If you're in the mood for a simple tale of a young lady's attempts to spark the interest of the gentleman she's quite enamoured with, that is quite sedately paced, but that is written in a very engaging and winning manner, nonetheless, you'll want to give Jenna Mindel's \\"Miss Whitlow's Turn\\" a go. <br /> <br />A very proper young lady, much respected for her impeccable manners and her virtue, Miss Harriet Whitlow has been hopelessly in love with the well known rake, Mr. George Clasby for almost three years now. Living in hope that he will one day notice her, Harriet has managed to turn away her other more respectable suitors, even though she realises that her feelings for George are hopeless. For even if George were to reciprocate her feelings, her very protective father would never allow George to court her. But things are about to change. Tired of his hitherto rackety life, George has decided to turn a new leaf, and has applied to Harriet's father for permission to be part of her court -- not to court her of course but to be seen in her company, thus signaling to the ton his intention of becoming more respectable. Harriet's father is leery of this plan, but knowing of his daughter's true feelings for George, hopes that familiarity will breed contempt; thereby freeing Harriet to appreciate his choice of a good husband for her, the proper Lord Grafton. Now it is up to Harriet to show George that she is the lady who can make his life complete. But can the shy and retiring Harriet do this? <br /> <br />\\"Miss Whitlow's Turn\\" proved to be a pleasant read. In spite of the fact that the story was a very simple one with few frills, it was very well written and a very engaging one to boot. The author does a good job of making both Harriet and George likable, appealing and very sympathetic. How could anyone not empathise with the very proper Harriet's dilemma of how to go about with sparking the ardour of one gentleman while trying to repulse the interest of another? Light hearted and charming, this very enjoyable read proved to be just the ticket for a dull winter's evening.	2005-01-20
395492:US	52830980	RHO5U7HEWRGQD	0425200183	676150719	The Widow's Tale (Sister Frevisse Medieval Mysteries)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	a fantastic installment is a good series	In the spring of 1449, a young widow is brought to St. Frideswide. Accused by her in-laws of being wanton and deranged, the widow, Cristina Helynton, has been sentenced to spend her days at St. Friedeswide's in contrition, the hope being that she will show penitence for her ways and take the veil. The nuns are in a twitter to have so scarlet a woman amongst them; but as the days pass, and Cristina proves to be both docile and quiet, a new disquiet fills some of the nuns -- Dame Frevisse especially. For something about Cristina's demeanor suggests that she's not so much penitent as bidding her time. What the nuns don't know is that Cristina is a woman deeply wronged: kidnapped, falsely charged and imprisoned, Cristina has been torn away from her home and her two daughters because of the greed of her dead husband's cousin, Laurence Helynton. Now, Cristina, torn between fear for her children, grief for her dead husband, and anger at her relatives, waits for her brother, Sir Gerveys, to rescue her and to help her regain her daughters and her former life. For Cristina has one ace up her sleeve: an incriminating letter that the Duke of Suffolk would pay dearly to have in his possession... <br /> <br />A gripping tale of evil and sinister doings during a period of great political uncertainty, \\"The Widow's Tale\\" was a fast paced and compelling read -- so engaging a read in fact that, once again, I found myself glued to the pages until I reached the very end of the book. Margaret Frazer does a first rate job of painting a vivid picture of both secular and religious life in fifteenth century England. And she does an equally brilliant job of giving us a good idea of what was going on politically as well. Also well done was the manner in which she brought all the characters, both primary and secondary to life. But best of all was the manner in which the mystery subplot was executed: suspenseful and full of clever twists and turns. So that in all, I'd vote \\"The Widow's Tale\\" a read not to be missed.	2005-01-08
397462:US	52830980	RF2B45S1F0LZT	0749083700	604048974	Death in the Valley of Shadows (John Rawlings Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	a brilliant installment	Apothecary John Rawlings should be more engrossed in the upcoming birth of his first child, instead of which he finds himself once again involved in Bow Street business when he finds himself firmly entangled with the brutal murder of vintner, Aidan Fenchurch. It all beings with Fenchurch rushes into John's shop looking for a place to hide. Fenchurch's high colour and his panicked state easily persuades John to agree to help. Not even a few seconds later, an imposing and rude woman comes in demanding to know if anyone matching Fenchurch's description has entered the store. Instantly taking a dislike to the woman, John brusquely sends her on her way. Now completely intrigued as to why the woman is hunting Fenchurch, John goes to see the man to tell him that the coast is clear and learns a most curious story. It appears that the woman is Adriadne Bussell, the wife of a colleague's of Fenchurch as well as Fenchurch's former lover. Fenchurch had ended their relationship, but Mrs. Bussell seems unable to let go and has been stalking him ever since. Things have gotten so bad that Fenchurch now fears for his life, and begs John to deliver some papers to Sir John Fielding of Bow Street that reveal all and that name Mrs. Bussell as his murderer if he should meet with a sticky end. John readily agrees, but is shocked, nevertheless, to learn the next day that Fenchurch was brutally murdered at the front doorstep of his own home. Did Mrs. Bussell have anything to do with Fenchurch's murder? John believes that she had, and telling all to Sir John Fielding, is relieved that the blind magistrate is of the same mind as he. But things take an even stranger turn when Mrs. Bussell dies is custody from acute poisoning. But who would have wanted Mrs. Bussell dead? As other suspects begin to die, one by one, John beings to wonder about the identity and sanity of this determined poisoner... <br /> <br />If you enjoy well written British historical mystery novels, you'll want to check out \\"Death in the Valley of Shadows.\\" Steeped in period history and feel, this perplexing and intriguing book was a treat to read from beginning to end. Colourful, vivid and suspenseful, I was completely engrossed from the very beginning. Set during the Georgian period (the mid 1700s more exactly), this wonderful series is, unfortunately, not easily available. You could probably get earlier installment through Amazon.co.uk (or haunt used bookstores), though you really don't have to read earlier installments in order to appreciate this particular John Rawlings installment. Fast paced, well written and perfectly executed, this is a read not to be missed!	2005-01-07
402287:US	52830980	R1WDXTAHE0MZTD	0060097981	966392680	A Midsummer Night's Scream (Jane Jeffry Mysteries, No. 15)	Books	2	16	19	N	N	not a very interesting or engaging read	When Shelley Novak's husband donates a run-down theatre to the community college, a novel idea strikes her. The college is about to feature a play by one of its professors, Steven Imry, and Shelley has volunteered to provide the food for the rehearsals. What she has in mind is to get a few caterers to provide the food (a different caterer each night) and then pick the best one to cater for her husband's annual managers' dinner. Shelley wants Jane to help her sample the food and take note of how the caterers handle things. And as a bonus, Jane and Shelley will be able to watch the rehearsals. While not completely enthusiastic, Jane allows herself to be persuaded and soon the two friends are sitting in on what must be one of the worst plays of the century. The play is awful and half-baked, the playwright-director is an oaf, and the actors, save for the professional aging actress, the likable Ms Bunting, are mediocre at best. So that the last thing Jane or Shelley was expecting was for one of the actors to get murdered. And while neither Jane nor Shelley feel much of a bond to those involved in this murder investigation, they naturally feel a little curious as to why this particular actor was murdered. And then a few days later the janitor is attacked. This time Mel Van Dyne (the detective in charge of the homicides and Jane's longtime lover) in eager to hear Jane's insights. And so once again, Jane and Shelley find themselves delving into a murder investigation... <br /> <br />I remember the first Jane Jeffry mystery I read, \\"The Class Menagerie.\\" I liked it so much that I went back to the bookstore the next day to get the other books in the series. Sadly, this will probably be the last Jane Jeffry mystery I read. It feels as if the heart has gone out of this series. The story plods along, the mystery in this particular installment was barely discernible, the other characters in this book (other than Ms Bunting) are not \\"fleshed out\\" and remain shadowy at best, and even Jane and Shelley seem lacking in enthusiasm and interest in discovering what's going on. All in all, \\"A Midsummer Night's Scream\\" was not a very interesting read.	2005-01-03
406781:US	52830980	R13BEJT2CJ33AH	0060732067	646046789	Much Ado About You (Essex Sisters, book 1)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	a bit sedate but a nice read nonetheless	The Essex sisters are in a pickle: their improvident father is dead, and now the sisters (four in all) are penniless and homeless. But their prospects are not so dire for their father has given them a guardian in the shape of the Duke of Holbrook (a youngish and rich gentleman, even if he does seem to be perpetually tipsy); and he has dowered them each with a much prized horse. The Duke in determined to do his duty by his wards and to see them settled happily in life; while Tess, now that she realises that she can count on the Duke to do right by her sisters and her, is determined to marry as soon as possible. Fortunately, the Duke his two of his closest friends visiting: the urbane and sophisticated Earl of Mayne and the fabulously rich and rakish Lucius Felton. The earl seems all set to woo her, but it is Lucius Felton who makes her pulses race, and whose kisses thrill. Should Tess make the prudent decision of allowing the earl to propose? Or should she wait for Lucius to make his move? <br /> <br />With this first installment of a new series featuring the Essex sisters, Eliosa James is off to a promising start. For while the series follows an old formula (virtually penniless sisters must marry for security), Ms James' execution of this old plot gambit is anything but, especially since she's introduced a rather interesting twist involving Imogen Essex, her obsession with an unsuitable suitor and how this affects her relationship with her sisters. All this will probably only be properly \\"fleshed\\" out in subsequent installments; \\"Much Ado About You,\\" focuses mostly on setting up the series premise and the characters involved in this series. And while I did enjoy \\"Much Ado About You\\" enormously, I have a feeling that some readers may not, because the developing romance/attraction that the book should have focused on (the Tess-Lucius pairing) sometimes got lost in between the many plot threads. A little more of Tess interacting with Lucius would have been very welcome. Since I've never watched Sex in the City, I'm unable to say whether or not the comparision is accurate; but I can advise though is to avoide the plot synopsis at the back of the book -- it gives far too much of the plot away.	2004-12-31
406916:US	52830980	R3SCOM2T2K3NYE	0151008418	163637184	The Vanished Hands	Books	5	7	7	N	N	an excellent read	Inspector Jefe Javier Falcon of the Seville Homicide Squad is back in another tautly paced and intricate mystery, \\"The Vanished Hands.\\" Compelling and haunting, this second installment in the Inspector Jefe Falcon series proved to be an absorbing and riveting read, and one that lingered in the mind long after I had finished the book. <br /> <br />In an exclusive suburban neigbourhood, Inspector Jefe Falcon is called in to investigate what looks like a murder-suicide of rich businessman Rafael Vega and his neurotic wife, Lucia. It all looks very cut and dried: Vega suffocated his wife while she was sleeping and then consumed a litre of drain cleaner, thus killing himself. Vega even leaves a cryptic suicide note, all pointing to the fact that he was a very disturbed and depressed man. But something about the scene disturbs the investigating officer, Falcon. For instance, why would a man obsessed with security to the extent that he had a state of the art system, leave the front door merely closed instead of locked up? Reluctant to make any snap jugements, Falcon and his team begins an investigation into Vega's past and business affairs, as well as that of his neigbours. What they discover is a man with a fake past, few friends and echoes of a previous case involving a pedophile ring. But this time, Falcon who has almost recovered from the traumas he faced in the previous case (\\"The Blind Man of Seville\\") is determined to get the result he so earnestly desires... <br /> <br />While I'd categorise \\"The Vanished Hands\\" as a must read, I have to admit that having a good memory of what happened in \\"The Blind Man of Seville\\" or else being able to intuitively grasp what happened in the previous book from what is revealed in this book, is quite essential. That one critisim apart, this was a really excellent read. With good pacing and splendidly intricate plot, plus a chief inspector that is intelligent, engaging and completely likable, \\"The Vanished Hands\\" was an easy book toloose oneself in; each revelation added to the suspense and complexity of the mystery at hand. So that all in all, I'd classify this as a read not to be missed, and a series to keep an eye out for!	2004-12-31
411154:US	52830980	R3536M5PB1I509	0743470044	548107359	The Devil to Pay	Books	4	16	18	N	N	a good read	Everyone knows that the Black Angel (so named because of a tattoo located on her left breast) has an agenda: to take from the blue-blooded rakish cads and to give to the women (discarded mistresses, raped housemaids, etc) they have wronged. Many of the \\"gentlemen\\" she has robbed have sworn to bring her down, but so far none have had any success. It is almost as if no one in London's great underworld knows who the Black Angel is. And then Black Angel decides to take down the Marquess of Devellyn, unwittingly setting in motion a series of events she never anticipated. For Devellyn is unlike her other marks. To begin with he's not the cad she thought he was, and then there is the fact that she is rather attracted to him. In the greater scheme of things, the Black Angel's feelings for the Marquess of Devellyn shouldn't matter, for a thief and a lord are unlikely to mix socially. But the Black Angel is actually a lady; a lady moreover who has recently acquired Devellyn as a neighbour -- a neigbour who seems quite intent on getting to know her intimately. And while Sidonie Saint-Godard (her identity is revealed in the plot synopsis on the backcover) quite enjoys the attentions, part of worries about what will happen if Devellyn ever discovers who her alter-ego is. And part of her cannot help but be jealous by Devellyn's obsession with the Black Angel... <br /> <br />If you're looking for a compelling read, complete with two angst filled principal characters and a few highly sensual love scenes, \\"The Devil to Pay\\" has your name on it. Well written and briskly paced, this was a fast and completely absorbing read. Liz Carlyle did a wonderful job of \\"fleshing\\" out her heroine and hero and making them seem like real (with both good points and hang-ups) and likable (in spite of Devellyn's rather over the top reaction when he discovers who the Black Angel really is). Some readers, however, may feel a little leery about the hero and heroine's first sexual encounter which starts off with the hero more or less forcing himself on her. I'll admit I'm still of two minds about that scene, in spite of the fact the author did salvage that scene completely. All in all however, a really good read.	2004-12-27
412980:US	52830980	R3T4PR3A382A7F	0821776606	74893794	The Incomparable Cassandra (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	a pleasant 3 1/2 star read	Laura Paquet's latest Regency-era offering is a nice, no surprises read about two people who are seemingly opposite in nature, and who yet turn out to be soul mates. It is a pleasant, well written novel, the charm of which lies in how both the hero and heroine learn to like and appreciate each other, and how, the heroine especially, changes (slightly) for the better. <br /> <br />Lady Cassandra Blythe is feeling a bit restless. Feted as an \\"incomparable\\" for the past few years, mixing with the same people (and avoiding the same people), and having come no nearer to finding her ideal mate, has left her feeling a bit jaded. The truth, though, is that Lady Cassandra has a distinct partiality for Mr. Peregrine Russell, except that while the gentleman enjoys her company and seeks her out constantly, he seems in no hurry to be married! So perhaps the unlooked for visit by her brother-in-law by marriage, Lord Benjamin Rowland, the Earl of Winchfield, should provide some amusement? Benjamin has been estranged from his sister, Elinor (and Cassandra's sister-in-law), ever since Elinor eloped in order to marry Richard Blythe. And Benjamin has been slow to bend the breach between them. Now, however, Benjamin has decided to marry, and hopes that Elinor will help him find a meek, biddable wife. For Benjamin is of a scholarly bent, and would like to spend all his time at his estate in the country, studying, rather squiring some demanding beauty about town. Elinor is aghast! She wants her brother to marry for love; but Cassandra, who despises the earl for all the pain he has cost Elinor privately believes that a meek, biddable wife is exactly what he deserves and is determined to help him find such a mate. That is until she begins to get to know Benjamin and realises that there is more to the man that meets the eye. Slowly she begins to rethink some of the things she has long taken for granted, and even her feelings for the earl. Could the bookish, quiet and stiff Benjamin embody all those qualities in a husband she has been looking for? But does he think the same way of her? And what of the other ladies she has been throwing at Benjamin ever since he arrived in town? <br /> <br />If you're looking for a nice, uncomplicated read with no surprises, then you will enjoy \\"The Incomparable Cassandra.\\" The book was well written, nicely paced and unfolded at a smooth and brisk pace. Focusing both on how Cassandra's character changes a little and the developing attraction between the two principals, \\"The Incomparable Cassandra\\" was an enjoyable read mostly because both Cassandra and Benjamin were easy to like. For while Cassandra is a bit superficial, she's not all that bad and is very good and loyal to her friends. So that, when through Benjamin's influence, she learns a little kindness, one feels good about the potential match between the two. Benjamin, apparently has already had his epiphany before the book starts, and fully cognizant about the wrong he has done his sister and her husband, so that we don't really see his character change all that much -- he's a nice but reserved gentleman when we first meet him, and he's still a nice but reserved gentleman at the book's close. So that while \\"The Incomparable Cassandra\\" is not a very complex book, it still makes for a nice 3 1/2 star read.	2004-12-25
413863:US	52830980	R3QA07F0OPRORK	0312300905	19849445	The Hangman's Hymn: The Carpenter's Tale of Mystery and Murder as he goes on a Pilgrimage from London to Canterbury	Books	5	1	1	N	N	superby entertaning, enjoyable and completely unputdownable	Paul Doherty's Canterbury Tales of Mystery and Murder series is probably my favourite historical mystery series. I look forward to each and every installment and am usually very disappointed that, because he is a very prolific writer with so many different mystery series in the works, new installments in this particular series take a while to be published. For those readers who are not familiar with the series, I will attempt to paint in some background details about the series. The series is based on Chaucer's \\"Canterbury Tales;\\" the pilgrims are all bound for Canterbury and in order to make the journey more agreeable, everyone has agreed to take turns at telling two kinds of tales each day -- a merry tale or fable during the day, and an eerie tale of darkness at night. Doherty's series revolves around the mysterious tales of murder and evil that are told each night. Another gimmick involved that makes this series all the more interesting and intriguing is that the pilgrims are connected to each other in some way or the other. So far, there have been four books in the series. Each has been a truly absorbing and chilling read, and a real page turner. And \\"The Hangman's Hymn\\" (the fifth intallment) was no exception to this rule! <br /> <br />The pilgrims are now deep in the Kent country, when they stumble across the chief tipstaff to the lords of assize about to dispense justice by having a few felons hanged at the place of their crime. The law of the times demand that because the pilgrims have chanced across this, they stand witness to the deed. One of the pilgrims however, the cheerful dark haired carpenter is so affected by the sight, that he faints from the horror. That night, as the pilgrims take their rest at St. Bardolph's Priory, the others quiz the carpenter about his faint-heartedness; he in turn tells a hair raising tale of horror and pure evil -- about a poor carpenter, Simon Cotterill who comes to Glouchester for love's sake, who ends up joining the local hangman's crew, and who becomes involved in hunting down and killing a coven of murderous witches who are terrorizing the Glouchester country side. A tale of such darkness and evil, that the pilgrims are held completely spellbound, even as they wonder to themselves if the tale is a true one and if the carpenter is the unfortunate Simon Cotterill... <br /> <br />From the very first page, I was hooked. Yes, some of the plot twists were fairly obvious; but the charm of this series (and much of Doherty's writing style) is the manner in which he tells the tale. Paul Doherty has a fairly compelling and engaging prose style, one that keeps your interest and makes you read on in order to see how things pan out and what will happen next. I really love this series. Each and every installment has chilled; and I've looked forward to discovering which pilgrim is tied to the other and how. I have yet to be disappointed by this series, and cannot recommend it highly enough. (And if you have not had the good fortune to read any of the previous installments, the paperbacks can be easily purchased through amazon.co.uk. Unfortunately they are hard to come by in the US). My advice is to wait until it's dark, and then settle down to enjoy this creepy and superbly entertaining mystery novel, hopefullt without too many distractions!	2004-12-24
418799:US	52830980	R12U51T1WG2NCH	0451213548	8079926	A Rake's Redemption (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	0	2	N	N	unfortunately it was a bit of a bland read	A bit of a rake, Theo Middleford, Viscount Dunnley, has decided to reform and look for a wife. But his wife must not only be beautiful and of an acceptable family, she must also match him in intelligence and passion, and someone he will be able to fall in love with and spend the rest of his life happily with. And since his cousins' wives seem to embody everything that he's looking for in a wife, he looks to the ladies' circle of friends for a likely candidate, and becomes intrigued by Lady Sarah Mallory. Dubbed the 'Welsh Beauty' Lady Sarah seems to the very embodiment of everything he's looking for: beauty, intelligence and a generousity of spirit, but she also seems to be very shy and trembles visible whenever he is near her. Could her shy nature hide a passionate nature, Dunnley wonders? Fascinated by her beauty and reserve, Dunnley decides to see if he can decipher the lady, only to discover that he has fallen quite deeply in love with her. But can he get the lady to reciprocate his feelings? <br /> <br />Given that \\"A Rake's Redemption\\" was a very well written novel, in which the author seems to have, effortlessly, gotten the feel and minute details of the period right, I was rather disappointed to discover that it was an extremely bland read. I kept reading on and on, waiting for something to happen. Well, it eventually did, a few chapters before the end. But what an anticlimactic, hurried something it proved to be! Every novel needs a conflict, whether it's big or small. Unfortunately, \\"The Rake's Redemption\\" had very little conflict -- I suppose you could call Nasty Ned (the oaf who keeps sexually harassing Lady Sarah) a conflict, also Lady Sarah's inability to realise that Dunnely's in love with her and she with him, a conflict also. But because the author made these conflicts seem almost like by-the-way irritations, they made very little impact. Nasty Ned was easily taken care off; and I really wondered about Lady Sarah's innocence: how could a young ladyreach the age of 22 and not realise that her feelings were actually signs of attraction for the hero? Novels, poetry, and songs of the period would have clued her into understanding some of the symptoms she suffered -- if some blunt talking amongst friends in her group had not. And while I understood that a young lady of that period would have led a rather sheltered life, I really doubt that recognising the signs and symptoms of love and attraction in herself would have been anything a young woman would have been ignorant about! Also, when I started to become more interested in a projected romantic pairing between another couple than on the featured couple on hand, I knew that, sadly, \\"A Rake's Redemption\\" was not holding my interest. Which was a shame because the book really had a lot of potential, and Susannah Carleton is a good writer. So, will I read another novel by Susannah Carleton? Of course I will! I need to see whether of not Fairfax and Lady Deborah end up together, and where her evil twin fits into everything. Given that Lady Deborah has an evil identical twin gives me hopes of conflicts a plenty and that that book at least will not be a bland read!	2004-12-19
419936:US	52830980	R1KV68LDE89M08	0821777440	575737608	Her Other Thief (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	3 1/2 stars: a good romantic read	I think that one should never look forward too much to a \\"sequel\\" to a book. Having read \\"The Other Sister\\" and having liked the heroine's best friend, Lucy Bowes\\" enormously, I had rather hoped that she would get a story of her own. Well my wish was granted (obviously a great many people liked Lucy enormously as well), and the result, \\"Her Other Thief\\" has left me with mixed feelings: on the one hand, the interaction between Lucy and the hero  was witty and thrilling, but the story was slow to unfold, and my overall reaction was \\"could something hurry up and happen please?\\" rather than the enjoyment of a romance for a character I really liked. Obviously my expectations had been too high; and that's not very fair to either the author or the book. <br /> <br />In \\"The Other Sister,\\" Miss Lucy Bowes' brother was revealed to be a coward and a thief. Facing scorn and ruination (her inheritance is tied to her brother's affairs, and her brother has since run off in order to avoid the law), Lucy has been lucky in her friends, especially her best friend, Caroline, the new Machioness of Dash. Caroline has stood her friend in this trying time, and has invited her to inspect Dashwood with her, since Caroline's husband, Thomas, is currently away. From the very first day Lucy makes the discovery that someone has been breaking into Dashwood. Determined to repay Caroline's kindness by protecting her interests, Lucy lies in wait for the thief, only to find that the masked man in an irresistible Spaniard, who manages to charm his way to her heart. The Spaniard claims that he is no thief, but is actually trying to recover something that is his. But can Lucy trust him? After all after having known one glib liar and thief, can she afford to take a chance on someone else with a persuasive tongue?  <br /> <br />\\"Her Other Thief\\" was not a bad read. Rather, it was a well written novel with a very interesting storyline and was a wonderful accounting of how two prickly and intelligent people fall in love with each other, but who are reluctant to admit it, much less do anything about it. However, the book did unfold a tad slowly, going 'round and 'round in circles, over the same material over and over again: our hero would try to recover the note, and Lucy would thwart him. Of course this allowed for some rather clever and pulse-racing conversations between Lucy and the hero; but I did wish that the whole issue could have been resolved a little faster. Also, since even the hero wonders if he should have just approached Thomas (the current Marquess of Dash) from the very beginning and explained things (in the other words the sensible approach), I couldn't help wondering the same. And I just didn't buy his whole \\"but can I trust the new Marquess of Dash\\" approach. Especially since everyone agreed that Thomas, unlike his dead elder brother, was the very soul of honour and discretion. However, what's good about this novel far outweighs the nit-picking, and all in all, \\"Her Other Thief\\" was a good romantic read about a plain, intelligent, sharp tongued and (temporarily at least) poor heroine and the gentleman who's able to see past her prickly exterior to the gem that lies beneath. A good 3 1/2 star read.	2004-12-18
424956:US	52830980	R1GD95CGW3ORGV	1569473765	576294455	The Coroner's Lunch	Books	5	121	126	N	N	one of the best mystery novels of the year	Colin Cotterill's \\"The Coroner's Lunch\\" proved to be a gem of a find and a treat of a read. It's a bit hard to classify this book because while it deals with serious themes of murder and corruption, it is also written in almost light hearted and witty manner, full of irreverent humour, and with a slight mystical overtone. But once you start \\"The Coroner's Lunch,\\" it is really hard to put this book down: swiftly paced with a few disparate subplots that seem unconnected, \\"The Coroner's Lunch\\" was completely unputdownble.<br /><br />Set in Laos (once part of Indochine) and in 1975, \\"The Coroner's Lunch\\" follows the fortunes of Dr. Siri Paiboum, a Paris trained doctor, who joined the communist party and who has been fighting with them in the jungle, for the sake of the love of his life, his wife Boua. When the novel opens, the fight is over, the communists have won and Siri is now a 70-something year old widower, who is entertaining hopes of a well deserved retirement. Of course things don't go according to plan: because of a lack of trained professionals (most seemed to have fled the country), Siri is informed that he is now the state's only coroner even though he knows next to nothing about performing autopsies. Knowing that declining the privilege is not an option, our reluctant coroner soon finds himself fitted up less than properly equipped morgue and the help of one nurse, Dtui (who is fortunately quite intelligent) and an amiable man of all jobs, Geung, who has Down's Syndrome. Together all three seem to shuffle along adequately and happily. That is until the wife of an important official turns up dead at the morgue. The husband claims that his wife probably died of food poisoning (she liked eating raw fish), but something about the lady's death troubles Siri -- the rush to pronounce her death an accidental one, and the claiming of her body before a proper autopsy can be performed, together with Siri's vision of the dead woman's spirit (yes, the doctor sees ghosts), convinces Siri that the lady was murdered. Siri is determined to discover who murdered the lady and why, but before he can get around to investigation further, he's called upon to perform another autopsy (this time one that could have serious international consequences), and then later to investigate a series of bizarre deaths up North. Suddenly it seems to be raining dead bodies -- or could someone be trying to keep Siri from further investigation the death of the important official's wife...<br /><br />I've been rather lucky lately: nearly every book I've picked up to read, I've found to be well written, clever, witty and a really enjoyable read. In fact I'm beginning to wonder when this string of good luck will wear out! \\"The Coroner's Lunch\\" was one of my lucky finds. And I do hope that Kirkus review that claims this book to be the first in a series is right: I'm already counting the months to the next Dr. Siri installment. Simply everything pleased about this book: from the clever, mystical storyline; to the witty and humourous prose style; to the completely engaging and likable protagonist, Dr. Siri Paiboum. Brilliantly building on the suspense by mounting one subplot on top of the other, Colin Cotterill cleverly leads us deeper and deeper into the heart of the novel. So if you're looking for a completely absorbing, engrossing and engaging read, look no further: \\"The Coroner's Lunch\\" is it. One of the best reads of the year.	2004-12-13
429648:US	52830980	R1OSS4RXA192OC	0765308819	764737999	The Witch in the Well: A Catherine LeVendeur Mystery	Books	4	11	12	N	N	a satisfying read	This latest Catherine LeVendeur installment reads more like an adventure novel -- what with a family secret to decode and a castle siege to withstand -- than a \\"straight\\" mystery novel. Still, there were plenty of mysterious goings on and a murder or two to go around, and the novel was a fantastically absorbing and riveting read. <br /> <br />Catherine and her children are summering at her brother's estate in the country, when brother and sister receive summons from their grandfather, Gargenaud of Boisvert, requesting that all his descendants come to Boisvert at once. Legend has it that the family are descended from a poor but honourable knight who served Charlemagne, and a beautiful \\"fairy\\" (Andonenn) who guarded a secret spring -- the spring that feeds the well in the castle keep of Boisvert. The fortunes of Boisvert and that of the family are tied to water flowing freely into the well. But now the well seems to have dried up, and Catherine's grandfather is filled with fear. He believes that if Andonenn's children come to the keep, than the curse will be reversed and the water will flow again. Catherine places little stock in legend and fairy stories. That is until messengers turn up dead, and a mysterious old woman urges Catherine to go to Boisvert before it is too late. Should Catherine endanger her family by taking them to Boisvert? Edgar is all for ignoring the summons, but Catherine has a hankering to see Boisvert again. Also, she's rather intrigued about the legend of Andonenn and the part she is supposed to play in all this... <br /> <br />Strangely enough, in spite of all the mysterious and bewildering goings-on at Boisvert, compared to previous Catherine LeVendeur mystery novels, \\"The Witch in the Well\\" lacked the darkness and grim somberness that characterised those installments. But did this make \\"The Witch in the Well\\" an unexciting and not very engaging read? To the contrary. From the very beginning I was hooked, and eagerly read on until I reached the last page. I enjoyed discovering more about Catherine's family history, and watching her interact with her siblings. Obviously the inability to get along completely and sublimely with one's siblings is a universal condition. And I enjoyed that Sharan Newman showcased this, while also leaving room for readers to realise that that Catherine, her brother, Guillaume, and her sister, Agnes, all have their good points and not so wonderful points. Fast paced and suspenseful, and full of wonderful historical detail about the period (12th century France), \\"The Witch in the Well\\" is a treat not to be missed!	2004-12-09
430173:US	52830980	RYU36TTFI64LX	0425199436	871994600	The Glass House	Books	5	10	11	N	N	a fantastic read	The third installment in the Captain Lacey Regecy-era mystery novels, \\"The Glass House\\" lived up to my every expectation. I had been really looking forward to reading \\"The Glass House\\" ever since I had finished \\"The Hanover Square Affair,\\" and was pleased to note that this Captain Lacey installment proved to be as riveting and as absorbing as the previous two books. <br /> <br />When the body of a blonde woman in pulled from the river, Captain Lacey's old sergeant, Pomeroy, who now works as a Bow Street Runner, ask Lacey to view the body just in case the dead lady turns up someone Lacey knows: the actress Marianne Simmons. The dead lady turns out not to be Marianne, but Lacey is moved by her death nevertheless, especially when it turns out that she was murdered before being dumped into the river. Further investigation reveals that the dead woman was an ex-actress and current wife of a dried up stick of a lawyer, Mrs. Amelia Chapman, but who was known to her lover (Lord Barbury) and everyone else, as \\"Peaches.\\" Further investigation also reveals that \\"Peaches\\" had a taste for danger and excitement, and that she was a regular attendant of the Glass House, a den of iniquity that catered to the whims and sordid tastes of the upper classes. On the very night of her murder, Lord Barbury was expecting Peaches at the Glass House, but she never showed up. As far as Lacey is concerned, Peaches' death could either be laid at the door of her cuckolded husband, Chapman, or her lover, Lord Barbury. But in order to find the evidence to capture a murderer, Lacey will have to infiltrate the Glass House, come face to with a level of sordidness he's not used to contemplating about, as well as face an old and dangerous enemy, James Denis. Now, Lacey has two tasks: finding Peaches' murderer; and closing down the Glass House and so getting even Denis. But could Lacey in his zeal to cause Denis some inconvenience be overlooking some aspects of Peaches' murder? <br /> <br />Swiftly paced and suspenseful, \\"The Glass House\\" was a compelling read from start to finish. Ashley Gardner does a wonderful job of evoking the atmosphere and feel of the age; the descriptions of London are vivid and captivating, and her character studies (esp that of her irresistible and melancholic hero) lifelike. The mystery subplot was nothing to be sneezed at either, being very intriguing and absorbing; and written in a very engaging manner so that one was completely hooked from the very beginning. All in all, I'd vote \\"The Glass House\\" as a brilliant read. I will admit to be slightly confused though: the plot synopsis at the back of the book describes Captain Gabriel Lacey as a cashiered officer. If so, how can he still be a half-pay officer, still feted by Society as a bit of a hero?	2004-12-09
435746:US	52830980	RHTA30ZXSISAN	1590581172	465531466	Castlemaine Murders, The: A Phryne Fisher Mystery (Phryne Fisher Mysteries)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	enjoyable and engaging	The second Phryne Fisher mystery novel to be published in this country (the first was \\"Murder in Montparnasse), this was my first foray into the series, and what a fun read it was too! Especially the subplot dealing with Phryne's married Chinese lover, Lin Chung's attempts to solve an 80-odd year old mystery. <br /> <br />The Honourable Miss Phryne Fisher is feeling a little stressed right now: her younger sister, Eliza, has just arrived in Australia, and seems hell-bent on deriding and dismissing the entire country and Phryne's lifestyle completely. In an attempt to derive a bit of fun under the circumstances, Phryne arranges an outing for her household (her two adopted daughters, Ruth and Jane; her companion-friend, Dot; her married Chinese lover, Lin Chung and her sister, Eliza) at Luna Park. But the pleasure of the day soon ends abruptly when a dummy at the Ghost Train ride turns out to be the mummified remains of a man who was shot. Who was the unfortunate man? How did he end up being mummified? And who murdered him? Phryne is determined to uncover all and to do right by the unfortunate man, in spite of the menacing messages she receives to leave well alone... <br /> <br />\\"The Castlemaine Murders\\" was a really fun read from start to finish. Set in the roaring 20s, Kerry Greenwood captures the feel and spirit of the age effortlessly. However, while the entire mystery subplot involving the mummy was intriguing, I have to admit that the subplot that focused on Lin Chung and the eighty year old family mystery involving missing gold and probable murder, captured my interest completely. The author's thumbnail sketch about the early Chinese settlers (who were mostly gold miners) was informative and intriguing, and made \\"The Castlemaine Murders\\" all the more enjoyable for me. Swiftly paced and completely engaging, \\"The Castlemaine Murders\\" was a thoroughly enjoyable read, and really deserves all the accolades it receives.	2004-12-04
444413:US	52830980	R2JH0WALY7JM0X	031298622X	11395353	Courting the Countess	Books	3	4	5	N	N	perhaps a change of title is in order?	After her husband almost ended her life (\\"A Gentleman at Heart\\"), Brook Meylan, Lady A'Court, left London and retired to the wilds of Cornwall in order to avoid the cruel speculation of Society. Here, she's exsisted, warding off the well meaning intentions of her family to get her return to London and to remarry. But all this changes when Mallory Claeg, artist and notorious libertine moves into the neighbourhood. From the very first, Mallory is fascinated by the quiet countess, and sets out to charm her. And while Brook knows full well what a man of his reputation wants from her, she finds herself strangely tempted by rakish Mallory. Should she give into the temptation? And what of the price this madness would entail... <br /> <br />While it is easy to empathise with and like both Brook and Morgan, much of \\"Courting the Countess\\" suffers from having a much used plot premise with very little variation. Both Brook and Morgan are suffering from past experiences -- she, from the sadistic cruelty of an obviously deranged husband, and he from his wife's untimely death. Morgan falls rather hard for Brook's fragile beauty and her air of sadness and vulnerability; and being the hard-living, notorious libertine that he is, decides to try and seduce into having an affair with him. Somewhere along the way, everything changes for him, and he decides that he would actually like to marry Brook and spend the rest of his life with her. But does he change the manner of his \\"courtship?\\" Of course not. Fumbling about in secluded places in order to have a few highly charged sexual moments is what every woman is looking for in a mate! As for Brook, while it is so very easy to wholly sympathise and understand her actions and her motivation, I did long for her to stand up, just once, for herself to her family comprehensively. Ultimately, though \\"Courting the Countess\\" is a competently written novel, that is more about how two characters overcome their past histories and so attain happinesswith each other. The historical aspect may be paper thin (if it were not for a mention of Almacks and a description of the clothes, I doubt if I would have guessed that it took place in the Regency period -- aside from the careful dating at the beginning of the book). It was nice to catch up with characters from previous novels. And on the whole, this was a quick and pleasant read. It's just that it really did pale when compared to \\"A Lady's Mischief\\" & \\"A Gentleman at Heart.\\" All in all, this was a nice 3 star read. Though I would have perhaps changed the title to \\"Seducing the Countess\\" or \\"Pleasuring the Countess\\" since the word \\"courting\\" seems to suggest a more tender and romantic way to woo a lady's heart and esteem, and that's not exactly how Morgan goes about trying to snare Brook!	2004-11-26
444792:US	52830980	R1JUJVM8ONVFLY	0670033561	359169189	Rumpole and the Penge Bungalow Murders	Books	5	5	5	N	N	simply excellent	For Rumpole fans who have always wondered how Rumpole and She Who Must Be Obeyed ever met, much less ended up married to each other, John Mortimer (finally) satisfies his fans' curiosity in this latest humorous and witty Rumpole installment, \\"Rumpole and the Penge Bungalow Murders.\\"  <br /> <br />When Rumpole makes the startling and unwelcome discovery that the younger members of his chambers seem to know nothing about his earliest murder case, the Penge Bungalow murders, he decides that it may be time for him to start writing his memoirs. As Rumpole recollects his early days at chambers, under the leadership of C. H. Wystan, in the 1950s, he remembers a time when winning a favourable result for the client usually played second fiddle to the correct behaviour of barristers and in not making any waves. Left under the care of another barrister (T. C. Wiley) who seemed more interested in playing golf then in teaching Rumpole the ropes, a very young and very green Horace Rumpole soon learns to turn to the Head Clerk, Albert Handyside for practical advise, and as a result gets fitted up with a few cases and is introduced to Pommeroy's Wine Bar, where most of the solicitor's clerks hang out, and where he begins a long love affair with non-vintage Chateau Thames Embankment. Slowly but surely, Rumpole seems to be making some strides in his career. And then the Penge Bungalow murders occur: young Simon Jerrold is accused of shooting his father, Dennis Jerrold, a war hero, and his father's friend, Charlie Weston, also a war hero, one night after a heated arguement with his very drunk father. Rumpole's head of chambers, Wystan, is asked to represent Simon Jerrold, and Wystan asks Rumpole to be the junior brief. But Rumpole's excitement soon turns to dismay when he discovers that Wystan has no intention of actually trying to defend Simon, and is actually trying to reconcile Simon to expect the very worse. Rumpole, however, is sure that there is room to throw doubt on the prosecution's seemingly airtight case, and when he is offered the opportunity to represent Simon all on his own, he jumps at the chance. But has Rumpole bitten off more than he can chew? Will Rumpole succeed in getting Simon acquitted? How will his head of chambers react to Rumpole's brash tactics? And where exactly does She Who Must Be Obeyed, otherwise known as Hilda Wystan, the daughter of C. H. Wystan, fit into everything?  <br /> <br />A very quick and rather light read, \\"Rumpole and the Penge Bungalow Murders\\" proved to be a highly absorbing and engrossing novel. Ever since PBS stopped making Rumpole a regular feature on mystery night, I've gone into withdrawal. So that each new Rumpole book is a treat. The wit, the humour, the unique, inimitable prose style and the stories -- all this was readily available in the Penge Bungalow case; and best of all was the bits that dealt with Rumpole's \\"courtship\\" of Hilda. A gift of excellent writing, \\"Rumpole and the Penge Bungalow Murders\\" is a treat not to be missed. A word of warning though, do not read in public: I read this book on the train, and got quite a few nervous looks because I was chuckling out loud.	2004-11-25
451328:US	52830980	R2NIRNMG8PXN28	0743256158	818080128	The Virgin's Lover (The Plantagenet and Tudor Novels)	Books	5	147	176	N	N	superb: a novel to be savoured...	Three pages into \\"The Virgin's Lover\\" and I suspected that I was onto a winner: I was right! With delicacy and ease, Philippa Gregory has once again penned another enthralling and beguiling tale, this time set during Elizabeth I's first year as queen, ably presenting all the political difficulties that the young queen and her advisors faced (at home and abroad) that first year, the forbidden love affair that developed between Elizabeth and her Master of Horse and childhood friend, Robert Dudley, and presenting us with her own idea as to how Amy Robsart, Robert's wife, died.  <br /> <br />Robert Dudley always believed that he and his family were destined for greatness. But the past years, following the ill fated attempt to make Lady Jane Grey (the widow of Edward VI) queen and her second husband, Guilford Dudley, king, have been hard ones for the surviving Dudleys -- Robert in particular. For an ambitious man, used to power and court life, being stripped of his titles, land and wealth, has been particularly unbearable. And he is also beginning to realise that his choice of wife, the slightly older, uneducated and totally unambitious Amy Robsart, may have been a disastrous one. And then in 1558, Queen Mary dies without issue, and names her half-sister, Elizabeth as heir to the throne. For Robert, this means only one thing: his star is on the rise again. As he quickly settles into life at court again, he begins to realise that the new queen, his childhood friend, needs guidance in a great many things, guidance he is only to happy to give much to the dismay of Elizabeth's other advisors. William Cecil in particular. Cecil is at his wit's end as to how to thwart Robert's influence over the queen which seems to grow each day. Worse, Cecil is beginning to suspect that the queen has fallen in love with the strikingly handsome and debonair Dudley. Fortunately Dudley is already married, so that Cecil doesn't have to face the awful possibility that Elizabeth will demand that she be allowed to marry Dudley. But what Cecil doesn't know is that Robert Dudley has already began to think about putting his wife aside so that he can marry the queen. A task easily accomplished now that Elizabeth is head governor of the Church of England. Will Robert get his way? Will Elizabeth help him achieve his dream of kingship? And what will happen to Amy Robsart? As the country already bankrupt by the previous queen teeters between war and scandal, Elizabeth and Dudley continue their mad dance that could spell the end of the Tudor reign over England... <br /> <br />For me, \\"The Virgin's Lover\\" proved to be as wonderful a read as \\"The Other Boleyn Girl.\\" Historically speaking everything covered in \\"The Virgin's Lover\\" is old ground -- nothing earth-shatteringly new revealed is revealed in this novel. But what makes \\"The Virgin's Lover\\" a fantastic and completely absorbing read is how the author brings characters and events to life. Vividly and grimly, Ms Gregory conveys what a young man used to wielding power must have felt when faced with ruin and low fortune, after his father's execution and the loss of all his wealth. Accurately she paints the ruthless Dudley need to succeed and his ache for power; and poignantly she paints the unhappy marriage of Amy Robsart, a young unambitous and uneducated woman, married and still in love with a younger man who no longer feels anything but irritation for her. Also nicely done is manner in which she presents, as a background, a country torn apart by religious wrangling and poverty, and titillated by the latest royal scandal. As soon as I saw \\"The Virgin's Lover\\" on the shelving cart, I knew that I had to read the book at once. From the first page to the last, Philippa Gregory held me captive. \\"The Virgin's Lover\\" was a fantastic read, and one that I cannot recommend highly enough.	2004-11-19
456053:US	52830980	R3RODBNNP1PPAA	0425198375	838368541	Consolation for an Exile (Chronicles of Isaac of Girona)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	a wonderfully riveting read	This latest Isaac of Girona mystery novel proved to be a perplexing and intriguing one from start to finish, and one that I found really hard to put down once I had started it.  <br /> <br />Raimon Forestar, a well-to-do land owner, has been having some very vivid nightmares almost every night. The nightmares, while they vary slightly in locale and people, always involve the burning death of a woman who seems to know Raimon and who seems to expect Raimon to save her. The nightmares are really affecting Raimon's health, and he decides to consult Isaac (a much respected physician) for his advice and help. Isaac believes that Raimon's nightmares may have a psychological root -- some suppressed memory from Raimon's past that has recently resurfaced and that is causing him a lot of discomfit. A suspicion that is further bolstered when Isaac discovers that a man claiming to be Raimon's long lost half brother has suddenly turned up, and has insinuated himself into Raimon's life, causing a lot of resentment within Raimon's family and servants. At the same time, the Emir of the Kingdom of Granada, a bloodkin of Yusuf Ibn Hasan, Isaac's assistant, courteously requests that Yusuf return home so that he can be reunited with his family. But upon returning to Granada, Yusuf discovers that while his family is happy to have him home again, someone would rather that he remained presumed dead and in Girona. As Yusuf tries to distinguish between foe and friend, and Isaac tries to untangle the source of Raimon's nightmares, two separate and impeccable killers with agendas of their own move to remove the two very vulnerable humans who stand in their way... <br /> <br />Fast paced, thrilling and riveting, \\"Consolation For An Exile\\" was a thoroughly enjoyable read. I really glad that I spent my Sunday afternoon with such an absorbing and rewarding read. Not only was the storyline a really good one (the subplot involving Yusuf and his dangerous journey back to Girona from Granada, was a really thrilling one), but so too were the character portrayals and historical bits as the author sketched out the political intricacies at the court of Granada and brought to life the dangers and difficulties that the surviving Cathars faced. On the whole, I've never been disappointed in any of Isaac of Girona mystery novels: each one has proved to have been an excellent read. Caroline Roe's agent and publishers really need to make a bigger deal of her series -- it's every bit as good as the Elizabeth Peters' Amelia Peabody series. So why isn't there more fanfare for Isaac of Girona?	2004-11-15
458493:US	52830980	RA2GKU0EMQRSM	0821776762	451116814	A Hero's Homecoming (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	a nice 3 1/2 star read	A follow up to \\"The General's Daughter,\\" \\"A Hero's Homecoming\\" focuses on Isabella Grimsby and Philip Lyonsbridge, the couple whose elopement ended badly in \\"The General's Daughter,\\" and Philip's attempts to woo Isabella and to prove to her that he is changed man.  <br /> <br />Two years ago, Isabella Grimsby was contracted to marry war hero, Adam Lyonsbridge. But Isabella, the daughter of a much decorated and much admired general, had decided that she had no desire to marry a man just like her father -- also, she had fallen violently in love with her fiance's older brother, the rakish Philip Lyonsbridge. The couple eloped, only to have their elopement thwarted when Adam caught up with the couple on the London Road, and shamed Philip into abandoning Isabella and joining the army in order to prove his mettle. Now, 2 years later, Philip has returned, a war hero, in order to face Isabella, and to dazzle her with his heroism. Except that the flirtatious, fashionable young lady he left behind has changed: older, wiser and much more mature, Isabella greets her erstwhile love with bitterness and derision. Taken aback, Philip decides to woo Isabella to the best of his abilities anyway, for he is still very much in love with her and cannot imagine a life without her at his side. What Philip doesn't know is that Isabella has a secret, one that could change his life forever... <br /> <br />For starters, \\"A Hero's Homecoming\\" cannot, in anyway be classified as a \\"light\\" romance novel -- the tone is just a bit too dark and poignant for that. Both Isabella and Philip suffer from having had parents who seemed to have spent their entire lives disapproving of them, and as such, have had their characters and needs shaped by this. And I thought that the author did a good job of conveying this. However, I was a little disappointed that the author never went into why Philip's father behaved the way he did. I was also disappointed that somehow the subplot involving General and Lady Grimsby seemed to overshadow Isabella's story, esp since I had been looking forward to reading Isabella's story ever since I read \\"The General's Daughter.\\" But those were truly minor quibbles; my main gripe was that this should have been a much longer novel. The author obviously had a lot of ground to cover, and the usual almost 300-odd pages novel length was just not enough! All in all though, \\"A Hero's Homecoming\\" made for a satisfying read. The newly matured Isabella and Philip, both deserve a happily ever-after ending, and it was nice to read of them achieving this.   <br /> <br />(As for the period details that the previous reviewer mentions, I thought that when the author wrote of Philip's a passage for Vienna being booked, she might have meant the crossing of the Channel by ship and then the journey by coach onto Vienna; and as for Viennese pastry shops, well Viennese coffee shops date back to the 1700s, presumably some cakes were served in them by 1814? I didn't spot any other historical gaffes, but then, I'll admit, I was reading rather swiftly.)	2004-11-12
459065:US	52830980	R3QJ7K98SGLLHQ	0821776746	101349830	AN Ideal Match (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	2 1/2 stars: a bit of a bland read...	While a pleasant enough read, \\"An Ideal Match\\" was a little bland. Elizabeth Drayton is a young widow just out of mourning who has been living with her dour mother-in-law in the wilds of Yorkshire. But Elizabeth has had enough of life with the grim Dowager Countess of Allward, and has decided to leave Yorkshire in order to set up a house of her own so that she can enjoy a life of peace and independence. But once she makes her escape, she discovers that she has exchanged one horror for another. Because her fashionable cousin, Alice, has decided what that Elizabeth needs is a new husband, and has heartily thrown herself into the task of finding Elizabeth one. One night, Elizabeth meets a gentleman to whom she finds herself unexpectedly attracted. The gentleman, Harry Marlowe is a widower and an amateur botanist, and as coincidence would have it, in possession of a sister who would like nothing better than to see him married. In no time both Elizabeth's and Harry's relatives are plotting to throw them into each other's company. And while both Elizabeth and Harry find themselves attracted to one another, Elizabeth is (still) quite adamant about having her own house and leading a quiet life of independence. And so Harry comes up with the notion of a pretend courtship, one that would satisfy both their interfering relatives, and one that would protect them both from the other matrimonial minded parties. Elizabeth finds herself agreeing to the scheme, but at the back of her mind lies the worry that she might lose her heart to the charming Harry Marlowe... But, after that in the story, nothing much happens. Harry and Elizabeth settle into some comfortable flirting, he helps her find a house, get settled, design a garden ... and all the while both of them ponder over the ridiculous situation they've found themselves in. They're both attracted to each other and think that each is the ideal mate, but both are leery about making this sham courtship real because each believes that the other has no intention of marrying. Even the introduction of a school friend of Elizabeth's who shows an interest in Harry fails to add any tension to the story. Part of the problem was the pacing which was at times rather slow and plodding. The other part of the problem was Elizabeth and Harry, both who seem rather nice but who weren't exactly charismatic or engaging. On the whole, because of the simple storyline, and not very engaging hero and heroine, I'd suggest borrowing this novel rather than buying it.	2004-11-12
464964:US	52830980	R23I8W2VK1IYXR	0451213327	680551487	Dying to Call You (Dead-End Job Mysteries, Book 3)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	a good read	Once she was earning a huge salary and had a big corporate job, but now all that's changed: on the run from her cad of an ex-husband, Helen Hawthorne (not her real name) has severed all ties with her family and her past and is living in Florida and working at dead end jobs (hence the title of the series), working off the books and for pennies in order to make ends meet. Currently, Helen is working as a telemarketer, attempting to sell Tank Titan Septic System Cleaner to the unwary public. One night, however, while conducting a 'phone survey to the home of Henry Asporth, Helen overhears a woman being strangled. And even though calling the police might mean that her past may be uncovered, Helen does so anyway. The police, when they do make it to Asporth's house, find nothing; and Asporth manages to persuade the police officers that Helen had overheard an old movie that was playing on the TV. Helen, however, is adamant that she really did hear a woman dying. And indignant that the police have brushed off her concerns, decides to do some detecting of her own. Soon, Helen finds herself skulking about in the playpens of the rich and the decadent; she may be in over her head, but she's determined to nail the murderer of the unfortunate young woman she overhead die... <br /> <br />Fast paced and compelling, \\"Dying to Call You\\" proved to be a riveting read. Elaine Viets does a wonderful job of vividly bringing to life the hellish life of a telemarketer. I liked her portrayal of the series heroine (Helen Hawthorne) and the storyline was a rather good one too. Also well done was the credible manner in which the author allowed for Helen to uncover info/clues and solve the mystery. All in all, \\"Dying to Call You\\" was a really enjoyable 4 star read.	2004-11-06
470419:US	52830980	R27K89OZ6QYLXE	0373265077	415659038	The Bone Garden (Wesley Peterson)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	a terrifically engrossing read	The archeological mystery is quite a popular sub-genre with many avid mystery lovers. However, it is not an easy sub-genre to execute brilliantly. Kate Ellis, however, has been cleverly penning the masterfully engrossing and addicting Wesley Peterson mystery series for quite a few years now. So why hasn't her Wesley Peterson mystery series been heralded with greater fanfare? It's not a series readily available on bookstore shelves, which is a shame because, truly this is a series that's worth taking note of and keeping an eye out for! <br /> <br />Earlsacre Hall (in Devon) has recently been sold to a charitable trust with an eye of turning the entire estate into an art centre. And one of the first projects is to restore the seventeenth century garden to its former glory. The escavation and restoration work is going swimmingly until the workers make an unsettling find: the remains of a woman who had been buried alive in the garden almost 300 years ago. Naturally the police are called in; and DS Wesley Peterson of Tradmouth CID finds himself becoming really intrigued by the find. A former archeology student, DS Wesley Peterson would rather like to get involved in solving the mystery of the woman's identity and why she was buried in the garden, but a current murder drags him away from the tantalizing find at Earlsacre: a young man is found brutally stabbed to death is his rented trailer nearby. Who he is and why he was murdered remains a mystery; but intriguingly a newspaper clipping about the escavation and restoration work going on at Earlsacre is found amongst his belongings. What is the connection between Earlsacre and the murdered young man? As the body count, both from the past and present mount, Peterson is determined to uncover this connection and to put an end to this current murderer's cold-blooded killings... <br /> <br />This is the fifth Wesley Peterson archeology murder mystery, and it is one of the better ones. Tightly woven and suspenseful from start tofinish, I found it very hard indeed to put down \\"The Bone Garden\\" until I had reached the last page. Kate Ellis definitely knows how to spin a good yarn. I espeically liked the manner in which she blended the 300 year old mystery with the current one practically seamlessly. Colourful, vivid and terrfically engrosing, \\"The Bone Garden\\" definitely was a fantastic read, and one that should not be missed by any avid mystery fan.	2004-11-01
471910:US	52830980	R25JCC7BWBLQI1	0312304366	521306086	The Deadly Dance (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 15)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Agatha Raisin truimphs again	Agatha Raisin has decided to become a private detective -- years of enthusiastically involving herself in police investigations and solving them ahead of the police has convinced her that she should turn professional. And so she rents an office in Mircester, hires a freelance photographer as well as retired police technician to do the electronic work, and her new neighbour, Emma Comfrey, as secretary-receptionist, and sits back, prepared to be overwhelmed with serious, perplexing cases. Except that the first few cases seem rather uninspiring: missing pets, teenagers and infidelity cases. And then rich divorce Mrs. Laggart-Brown walks into the office. Mrs. Laggart-Brown is about to host a dinner party where her daughter's (Cassandra) engagement to a stockbroker (Jason Peterson) will be announced. But just days before the party, Mrs. Laggart-Brown receives a letter threatening Cassandra's life. Mrs. Laggart-Brown want to hire Agatha to come to the party, mingle with the guests and keep an eye out for suspicious behaviour. And at the party, Agatha successfully thwarts an attempt on Cassandra's life. Now, Agatha and her team must begin the hunt for the would-be killer in earnest. Their suspects are practically non existent. For who would want to kill a young lady who's led a sheltered, quite life? And if that's not bad enough, Agatha must battle with her feelings of jealousy for her new secretary, Emma, who seems to be proving to be a rather good detective... <br /> <br />While not written in a wacky-zany vein, the Agatha Raisin mysteries are written with biting humour, and feature a heroine who seems to have the unhappy knack of creating farcical situations wherever she goes (a strange knack given that Agatha was once owned a successful PR company). With a penchant for falling in love rather unwisely, this time around, Agatha has decided not to allow her heart to rule her head. This made \\"Deadly Dance\\" refreshingly different. Agatha is still brusque, insecure and susceptible to good-looking men, but in \\"Deadly Dance\\" she doesn't start obsessing about them either -- or at least not all that much. The storyline is a tad convoluted this time around, but one hardly notices this thanks to M. C.  Beaton's crisp writing style. Carefully plotted, \\"Deadly Dance\\" unfolds in a smooth and fluid manner, and made for compelling reading from start to finish. All in all, a good storyline, eccentric characters and a heroine whose brusque yet vulnerable manner makes her so very endearing (to me anyway), \\"Deadly Dance\\" was a fun read.	2004-10-31
476075:US	52830980	ROO66WH6A0QAM	0345476700	788608390	A Christmas Visitor (The Christmas Stories)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	an almost perfect read	\\"A Christmas Visitor\\" may not be in the style of a grand puzzler, but it was a great read nevertheless. As is usual with a novel by Anne Perry, at the heart of \\"A Christmas Visitor\\" lies a question of morality -- doing the right thing no matter the personal cost, and the feelings that this act arouses within oneself and those affected by the act. \\"A Christmas Visitor\\" is a very short novella, and it is a very fast read -- it doesn't possess a very complex storyline, nor is it full of clever and suspenseful twist and turns, and yet within the 199 pages, Ms Perry expounds on the theme morality very well, holding my interest from start to finish.  <br /> <br />Judah Dreghorn was a very well thought of, highly respected and much loved Justice of the Peace. And yet, just before his tragic accidental death, he was accused by Ashton Gower of being corrupt and venal. Eleven years ago, Ashton Gower's ownership of his estate was questioned by his cousin, Peter Colgrave. It was Colgrave's contention that Gower had forged the deeds and that the estate rightfully belonged to him, Peter Colgrave. The case was put before Judah Dreghorn, who upon examining the deeds, discovered them to be a forgery. Gower was sent to prison for forgery and fraud, and Colgrave inherited the estate -- an estate he promptly sold to Dreghorn. But now, Gower who has been released from prison, has returned to the area to accuse Dreghorn of a deliberate miscarriage of justice in order to acquire the estate. A few days later, Judah accidentally slipped and cracked his head on some sharp stones in a deep stream. And now it is left to Judah's family (his wife, Antonia and his three brothers) to protect his name and the estate from Gower's claims. Henry Rathbone (father to Oliver Rathbone from the popular William Monk series), who happens to be Antonia's godfather and Judah's good friend, has come down to help Antonia with the Gower problem, and he cannot help but wonder about the nature of Judah's death. ForJudah to die at such a time seems just too convenient. Was Judah murdered after all? And was Gower responsible for murdering Judah out of anger and spite? Or was there some other reason to Judah's death, and could Gower's claim of being wrongly imprisoned have some merit after all? Sure that the truth is the only way to help the Dreghorn family heal and get on with life, decides to uncover the truth about everything no matter the cost... <br /> <br />I thoroughly enjoyed \\"A Christmas Visitor.\\" It was a very fast, engaging and compelling read. And given that the book was only 199 pages long, I thought that Ms Perry had done an excellent job of vividly portraying her characters and the stark beauty of the Lake District in December. Also brilliantly done was how the entire book hinged on the moral character of the dead man -- what we know of Judah Dreghorn we learn from other characters. And yet he is a presence felt throughout the book in spite of the fact that he is dead even before the book even begins. Many authors have done this of course, but I don't think too many of them have really succeeded. Ms Perry definitely has. All in all, I was impressed by \\"A Christmas Visitor\\" -- it was short, fast paced, very well executed and the perfect thing for a train or bus ride.	2004-10-27
480415:US	52830980	R3KB78SCS1VYU8	0060527293	887737206	Double Shot (Goldy, Book 12)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	a good read	For more than a decade Diane Mott Davidson has been delighting readers with her Goldy Schultz culinary mystery series. And in this 12th installment in this engaging series, Ms Davidson delivers once again: \\"Double Shot\\" is a fast paced and totally absorbing read. <br /> <br />For Goldly Schultz, the past few weeks has been very trying: her abusive ex-husband, who had been imprisoned for assaulting one of his girlfriends, had had his sentence commuted because he had saved a prison guard's life. And now, the Jerk (as he's affectionately known to both his ex-wives, Goldy and her best friend, Karla) is free to make her life hellish all over again. But it never occurred to Goldy, even in her wildest dreams, that she'd find the Jerk dead in his own garage, and that she'd become the prime suspect in his murder. With the police (in spite of the fact that she's married to one of their more respected officers) looking at her in an unfriendly light, Goldy realizes that it's up to her to discover who killed the Jerk and why. Her investigation will take back to the early years of her marriage to the Jerk, and the chilling realization that things were not what they seemed... <br /> <br />Swiftly paced and very intriguing, \\"Double Shot\\" was an engrossing read from start to finish. The suspense is built around each new secret that Goldy uncovers about the people she thought she knew, and just how all this could affect her fragile relationship with her son (for reasons I cannot fathom, Goldy's son seems to be very attached to his cad of a father). Well crafted, and with a good storyline and superbly realized characters, \\"Double Shot\\" was an enjoyable read from start to finish.	2004-10-23
481497:US	52830980	R1C5B51NETQGNV	0821775537	112819927	A Notorious Lady (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	a good, out-of-the-ordinary 3 1/2 star read	Catherine Blair's latest Regency-era is not your usual fare: it features a nobly born heroine with a scandalous past and a humbly born hero who also happens to have a chip on his shoulders. Tied to a previous novel \\"A Scholarly Gentleman,\\" \\"A Notorious Lady\\" focuses on the story of the scandalous Lady Eleanor Whitcombe, whose painful and colourful past, affected the lives of both the hero and heroine of \\"A Scholarly Gentleman.\\" This is Lady Eleanor's tale. <br /> <br />After her \\"fall from grace,\\" beautiful Lady Eleanor Whitcombe retired to Potton (a small village near Cambridge University) in order to raise her son, William. In Potton, Lady Eleanor hoped to live down her notorious reputation and to be left in peace. She has only one friend, Jordan Blakley DeVaux, who knows the most intimate details of her past, but who, nevertheless, has stood a friend, helping her move to Potton and helping her raise William. And for years, he has been urging Lady Eleanor to shed her quiet life and to socialize more; and for years Lady Eleanor has turned a deaf ear to his pleas, until now. A chance meeting with a colleague of DeVaux's raises all kinds of feelings in Lady Eleanor that she had thought dead: anger, disdain and attraction. Professor John Caldwell, Lady Eleanor discovers, just happens to be a totally aggravating, judgemental and sinfully attractive man, whom she quickly realizes, is attracted to her in spite of himself. Should she unbend and allow the man to become a friend? Years of being judged, insulted, cut and propositioned has taught Lady Eleanor caution. But would any harm come from allowing John Caldwell to become a friend, especially since William likes him so? And what to do about her conflicting feelings for John Caldwell? Will he be satisfied with a respectable friendship? Would she? Suddenly Lady Eleanor is confronted with decisions and choices long closed to her... <br /> <br />\\"A Notorious Lady\\" was a very well written book, that made for some sobering reading. Catherine Blair did a magnificent and unsentimental job of painting Lady Eleanor's plight. Not many Regency-era romance novels possess heroines who are fallen women, and the author's stark rendering of what Lady Eleanor's life has been like since her move from London, raised the level of this particular novel above most others, I thought. It was truly easy to empathize and sympathize with Lady Eleanor. John Caldwell, on the other hand, was a little more difficult to relate to, mainly because he keeps failing to come up to snuff when he's obviously supposed to! But even that quibble fades away since he behaves satisfactorily in the end, when it really counts. However, while this is a well written, nicely pace, out-of-the-ordinary novel, I did feel that more could have been made of the romance between Lady Eleanor and John. Somehow the story of Lady Eleanor's sobering circumstances somewhat eclipsed the romance angle of the story. However, this quibble aside, \\"A Notorious Lady\\" is still worth recommending as a good, worthwhile read.	2004-10-22
483471:US	52830980	RJ5AVNJ4HDCP2	0451213378	275717166	The Star of India (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	nice uncomplicated love story...	If you're in the mood for sweet, uncomplicated love story about two friends who rediscover each other after many years of separation and who realize that they are soul mates, then \\"The Star of India\\" is the book for you. A sequel of sorts to \\"Lady Rogue\\" I liked \\"The Star of India\\" a lot better than \\"Lady Rogue\\" -- the storyline was a more interesting one, and Amanda McCabe did a thoroughly good job of showing us why Emily and David made a good couple. <br /> <br />You would have thought since the Kentons' money problems were over (Alex, the current Duke of Wayland had married a very rich lady in \\"Lady Rogue\\"), Lady Emily Kenton would have nothing to worry about anymore. Except all she can do is worry these days because of a very dishonourable deed that her dead brother, Damien (the previous Duke of Wayland), had committed before his death. Many years ago, the Earl of Darlinghurst had given Emily's father the fabled Star of India (a valueable sapphire) for safekeeping just before he and his only son, David, returned to India. But when Emily's father died, and hard-living and spendthrift Damien inherited the title, he had taken the Star of India and sold it to a merchant, Sir Charles Innis, for a great deal of money. Now, the merchant has decided to donate the Star of India to the British Museum, and Emily is fearful of what the repercussions will be when the assessors discover that the Star of India is a fake! For in an act of total dishonour, Damien had made a copy of the jewel and sold the fake to Innis. Where the real Star of India is Emily hasn't a clue, but she knows that she must find a way to avert the scandal that is bound to hit her family when the truth comes out. And that's when an unexpected complication to the entire affair walks into her life. For who should she spy at a ball one night, but David, her childhood playmate, best friend, and the new Earl of Darlinghurst. Too see David again after all these years and to reestablish their close relationshipis sheer bliss. But Emily cannot help but dread the moment when David will ask about the Star of India. How is she to confess that her family has broken his father's trust? And how is she to bear the anger and disillusionment that will be in David's eyes when he learns the truth? <br /> <br /> <br />As I noted at the beginning, \\"The Star of India\\" is a very simple story, very simply told -- if you're looking for something with a more complex storyline, this is definitely not the book for you. Amanda McCabe seems to excel in telling stories where the blossoming relationship between the hero and heroine hold center stage. In this particular instance the novel is all about how David and Emily reconnect after having spent half their lives apart and about the special bond between them. Even the entire Star of India subplot plays second fiddle to this love story (thank goodness). I did have one quibble though: why on earth Alex, the Duke of Wayland, never talks to David about the jewel. That, made little to no sense to me. On the whole though, \\"The Star of India\\" turned out to be the kind of romance novel that is nice and sweet and that makes you smile when the happily ever-after ending is achieved.	2004-10-20
486414:US	52830980	R1N2OWXORKHE21	0451210417	117999722	A Perfect Gentleman	Books	3	14	15	N	N	a pleasant 3 1/2 star read	Almost completely penniless and with little to no prospects or vocation, Viscount Aubrey Wellstone is at his wit's end when an unexpected career as a paid escort falls into his lap. But Wellstone is no ordinary escort: completely honourable, he doesn't believe in compromising the reputations of the ladies he has been \\"asked\\" to see about town, and so refuses to dally with any of them; and instead of crassly excepting money over the counter for a job done, Wellstone has his debts paid off in exchange. His latest client however is unlike anyone he has had to deal with before: a rich young heiress, used to running her father's bank, Miss Elliane Kane wants to hire Wellstone not so much to help launch her into London society, but to help her find her missing younger sister, Isabelle, who had gone up to London in order to make her debut a few months ago. But with the death of the autocratic aunt she was staying with, had come the discovery that Isabelle was missing. Has Isabelle run off with some disreputable scoundrel after her money? Was she kidnapped by unscrupulous villains? Is she even still alive? Unwilling to believe that Isabelle is dead, Elliane clings to the hope that Isabelle has eloped, and it is her hope to discover the name of the cad who has led her sister so astray by infiltrating London society. And to do that, she needs Wellstone's help. But how can she keep her mind on the seriousness of the situation when all she can do is moon over Wellstone's spectacular looks? And anyway it's a well known fact that Wellstone isn't in the market for a wife; and even if he was, he's bound to choose a better born, younger and less managing woman anyway -- or wouldn't he? For something in the manner in which Wellstone looks at her makes Elliane wonder about Wellstone's feelings for her afterall ... <br /> <br />I had mixed feelings about \\"A Perfect Gentleman.\\" For me, the book made for good reading when the author was concentrating on Wellstone and Elliane -- the attraction that felt for each other, and their blossoming friendship and their efforts to keep their feelings for each other under control -- all this wonderfully accompllished. And the introduction of a set of quirky characters that include a ex-tippling-gambling-newly-discovered-religion butler, a teary young stepmother and a foul-mouthed aunt, made for enjoyable reading too. But I did think that the entire serial murder subplot was underdone and totally unsatisfactory; ditto the entire subplot involving Elliane's missing younger sister, Isabelle. Perhaps if the author had concentrated more on the missing sister subplot and given up on the serial murder subplot, one wouldn't have come away with that lack of focus feeling. Which is a shame because Barbara Metzger is one of my favourite authors, and the main plot, involving the evolving romance between Wellstone and Elliane, two nice, intelligent and likable people, who had decided completely against marriage, but who had more or less fallen in love at first sight with each other, and are in some small denial about their feelings, was a lot of fun and very engaging. So that all in all, \\"A Perfect Gentleman\\" turned out to be a 3 1/2 star read for me.	2004-10-18
486700:US	52830980	R2B6OCMENXN7WP	0778320855	854984279	Winterset (The Mad Morelands)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	a good read	The third in a series featuring the Moreland siblings who all seem to have some mystical abilities, \\"Winteset\\" is Reed Moreland's (the younger son of the duke) story. Three years before the story proper begins, Reed Moreland, bought the Winterset estate in Gloucestershire, with the thought of settling down there. And he fell completely in love with the beautiful Miss Anna Holcombe (her maternal relatives used to own Winterset), and believed completely that she returned his feelings. So that he was quite shattered when she, with great firmness, rejected his offer of marriage. Leaving Gloucestershire and vowing never to return, Reed has laboured valiantly to forget Anna, but with little success. And when, in the beginning pages of the novel, has a nightmare that Anna is danger of her life, he decides to leave for Winterset in order to keep an eye on Anna. But how to cope with seeing Anna everyday and not allow the anger, bitterness and absolute love he has for her cloud his judgement? And then one of the female servants who works for the Halcombes goes missing and is found brutally murdered in a manner reminiscent of a couple of unsolved murders committed 50 years ago. Then people whispered that the Winterset Beast (part human, part wolf) was responsible for the murders that took place in the neighbourhood. Is the Beast responsible for this current murder? Or is the murderer only all too mortal as Reed suspects? Fearing for Anna's safety, Reed vows to discover who this mad murderer is, and to protect the lady he loves in spite of her seeming indifference to him... <br /> <br />\\"Winterset\\" is a nice little gothicky romance novel that proved to be a rather absorbing read. The author did a very good job in portraying all the angst that both Reed and Anna feel, as well as the simmering passion that they feel for each other. The \\"gothicky\\" subplot dealing with the dark secrets in Anna's family and the murders that plague the village was rather well done too. My only reservations came from two factors: 1) the language: I understand that many authors feel that writing in an old fashioned manner may seem anachronistic. But surely there is no need to make the characters sound so very, very 20th century American either? And 2) I couldn't help but feel that the inclusion of Reed's sister, Kyria (featured in \\"Beyond Compare\\"), and his twin younger brothers hampered the smooth flow and tightness of the storyline. There was so much happening anyway so that even though it was nice to know that Kyria was very happily married now with a child of her own, I really didn't think that she was all that vital to the story at hand, and actually got in the way. All in all though, \\"Winterset\\" was an enjoyable and absorbing read.	2004-10-17
490219:US	52830980	R3GM02WAYPXRNE	0786714662	352097343	Chaucer and the House of Fame	Books	5	5	5	N	N	a wonderfully absorbing read	In this wonderfully readable and engaging debut mystery novel, Philippa Morgan has penned a book where actual historical events share the stage with a suspenseful intrigue subplot and a murder-mystery subplot, making \\"Chaucer and the House of Fame\\" a thoroughly exciting and absorbing read.  <br /> <br />When it begins to look as if the fragile peace between the French and the English are about the breakdown over the lands in Aquitaine, the Duke of Lancaster, John of Gaunt, sends one of his most trusted diplomats, Geoffrey Chaucer, in order to persuade the Comte de Guyac, a very influential French landholder from the region to continue his support of the English. But almost from the very beginning of the dangerous journey to Aquitaine, Chaucer senses that he is being shadowed. And he is right, for a very dangerous and determined spy-assassin is on his tail. Will the spy-assassin get to Chaucer before he can carry out his mission of persuasion? Soon, however Chaucer finds that he has exchanged one set of dangerous circumstances for another. For the household of Guyac is quite divided about whether or not they should support the English; and soon after Chuacer's arrival his gracious host is murdered during a boar-hunt. Was the Comte de Guyac murdered so that he would not throw his support behind the English? And was he murdered by the spy-assassin who has been dogging Chaucer's footsteps, or by someone from within the Guyac household? As Chaucer struggles to come up with answers, he uneasily begins to realise that his life is in even more danger than ever... <br /> <br />Set in 1370 and during the 100 year war, Philippa Morgan does a wonderful job of making the historical and political realities of the period a vital part of the novel, and not in a dense and uninteresting manner, but in a very vital, vivid and exciting way. You can really feel the suspense mount as you read of the spy-assassin closing in on Chaucer and his party, and feel the dread deep in your stomachas you realise that some other innocent or the other would be killed off by our villain in his murderous quest to get closer to Chaucer. The mystery subplot of who killed the Comte and why was rather well handled too -- there were plenty of suspects to keep one happily absorbed in speculating as to the identity of the murderer! But for me what really kept the novel humming and exciting was the suspenseful intrigue subplot as Chaucer and his cohorts to their level best to evade those who seem to have murderous plans for them. All in all, with factors like a good story fantastically told, colourful and vivid historical detail, and wonderfully realised characters, \\"Chaucer And The House Of Fame\\" is a read not to be missed by any avid mystery fan. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-10-14
490342:US	52830980	R38I9K75HL7Y1W	0345456548	53099443	Shoulder the Sky : A Novel	Books	4	20	21	N	N	a good read but mystery subplot plays second fiddle	The second installment in the (what I'm calling the Reavley series) was, for me, both compelling and disappointing. Compelling because, as usual, Ms Perry does a fantastic job of bringing to life the horrors of trench warfare during WWI, and making us feel the pain, sorrows and fears of the men and women who were at the front. However, while these sections of the \\"Shoulder the Sky\\" were really absorbing and mesmerizing, the whole mystery-intrigue subplot of discovering the identity of Peacemaker (the man responsible for the murders of the Reavley parents) and exposing his mad megalomaniacal plan to carve up the world between the Germans and the English, really played second fiddle to the horrors of war subplot. And for an avid mystery reader, this can be rather disappointing. I rather enjoyed all the ruminating that Joseph (the military chaplain at the Front) and his friends go into while they are trying to make these brash young war journalists (who all seem to be antiwar and who all seem to have some personal agenda) understand that while one may not want a war, sometimes fighting for an ideal is something that one must do; however, for most readers who are familiar with the works of the authors and poets of the period, much of this is old ground. And truthfully speaking, I had bought the book more for the mystery-intrigue subplot. So from that standpoint, I was a little disappointed. However, \\"Shoulder the Sky\\" is a well written book, full of wonderfully sketched and realised characters (getting to know the Reavley siblings more intimately was a real treat), that poignantly deals with the realities and horrors of war. So that even though I was disappointed that the murder-intrigue subplot played second fiddle this time around, I'd still vote \\"Shoulder the Sky\\" as a good 4 star read.	2004-10-14
491397:US	52830980	RA9EDLFRJEP2K	0425198278	895158111	Crewel Yule (Needlecraft Mystery)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	a good book to unwind with	The Betsy Devonshire Crewel World mystery series has always been one that I've enjoyed. Featuring mystery plots that are quiet, engaging and easy to get into and read, the Crewel World series has always been the perfect thing to unwind with (if unwinding with a mystery novel is your kind of thing, that is) after a long day at work. And Monica Ferris' latest Crewel World mystery proved true to the norm.  <br /> <br />When the annual cash and carry market hosted by the International Needlework Retailer's Guild is moved forward from February to December, Betsy Devonshire (owner of the Crewel World needlework shop) and her trusty assistant, Goodwin, find themselves in Nashville, unexpectedly snowed in during the buying spree, and unexpectedly involved in yet another murder investigation. When Belle Hammermill, co-owner of Belle's Samples and More in Milwaukee falls nine stories to her death from the balcony of the hotel onto the atrium, everyone assumes that it is some ghastly accident. Except for Jill Larson, a policewoman from Minnesota and a close friend of Betsy's who is in Nashville for a police seminar, that is; and she persuades Betsy to help her investigate the circumstances of Belle's death. Sure enough Jill comes up with enough evidence to question the pat \\"accident\\" theory. But who would have wanted Belle dead? A quick look at Belle's past and acquittances suggests to Betsy and Jill that Belle had more enemies than friends. But which one of the many people who disliked her caused her death? Was it the business partner she took advantage of, Cherry Pye? Or was it the employee whose husband she stole (Eve)? Or could it be Lauren, the sewing artist Belle sabotaged? Somehow, Betsy and Jill will have to sieve through all the evasions and half-truths in order to arrive at the truth... <br /> <br />A shortish mystery novel, \\"Crewel Yule\\" proved to be an interesting read. A word of warning though: readers should be prepared for the fact that for almost half the book,the plot progression jumps between the past and present, as we get to understand why Cherry, Eve and Lauren really hate Belle, and why Betsy, Goodwin and Jill are in Nashville in December instead of February as originally planned. Once you get past the toing and froing though, the book turns out to be a smooth and engaging read. And watching Betsy try and make sense of all the information and solve the mystery was satisfying and engrossing. Smoothly told, this quiet and unassuming little mystery proved to be a fast must read, in spite of the editing problems.	2004-10-13
496213:US	52830980	R1DWTCBFWXRIJH	0312324219	795815552	A Ghost in the Machine: A Chief Inspector Barnaby Mystery	Books	5	32	37	N	N	a fantastic read	Lovers of old fashioned British police procedurals (the ones where there is plenty of character development, and where the novel dwells more on the personal stories of the characters involved rather than on the police detectives and the sometimes too gruesome investigation at hand) can rejoice: Caroline Graham has penned, after an absence of a few years, another Chief Inspector Barnaby mystery novel. I loved the Chief Inspector Barnaby mysteries when I first started devouring them almost a decade ago, and I loved the TV dramatizations of the series (alas only available on A&E now and then), so I was truly excited when I noticed \\"A Ghost in the Machine\\" sitting on the shelving cart. \\"A reprint?\\" I wondered, only to realize that it was a brand new mystery novel that I had yet to read! My excitement paid off: once I started the book, I found it difficult to put down. This, in spite of the fact that I had gotten used to the more streamlined police procedurals, where the crime is committed in chapter one, and the police investigation starts off almost at once. Caroline Graham's novels involve a different kind of approach: one in which the village life and the quiet and intimate lives of the denizens of that village are examined, and where a small event or arrival of a new person to the village signals the onslaught of devious and more sinister happenings. DCI Barnaby and his trusty sidekick, DS Troy only really came into the picture almost halfway through the book. Not that one ever feels impatient with the slowness at which the police investigation part of the mystery at hand gets off the ground. On the contrary: how on earth could you feel impatient when there are all these village characters and their own personal stories and worries to get involved with? Intriguing, suspenseful and simply chockfull of characters that suspiciously, \\"A Ghost in the Machine\\" was a compelling and absorbing read. So, if you're a lover of a more old fashioned approach to the mystery novel,the one where the village and the villagers are the stars, and where the author really gets into the personalities and motivations of characters involved, you're in for a treat, and really should not miss \\"A Ghost in the Machine.\\"	2004-10-08
498831:US	52830980	R1MPPAJUDUXAK9	0425198790	98492200	Hardly a Husband (Berkley Sensation)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	not bad, but a bit of a bland read	It's seems as if one of the more popular (and overly used) plot device in use right now is one where the aristocratic hero and his friends are spies for the Crown. Sometimes, especially when I read 2 or 3 of these Regency-era romances back to back, it seems as if the entire male population of the ton are spies. And even though I know that it's all fiction and that the books are all by different authors, I have silly moments where I imagine every gentleman at Almacks dodging behind pillars or into alleyways looking for spies while the ladies fan themselves languidly in drawing rooms wondering where all the men are! Rebecca Hagan Lee's latest Free Fellow installment, however, doesn't really conform to this norm -- the hero, Jarrod, the Marquess of Shepherdston is an agent for the Crown; however the book barely touches on this aspect of the marquess' life. And in this particular case, it might have been better if it had, because for me, \\"Hardly a Husband\\" was a bit of a bland read. <br /> <br />It seems as if everyone has plans for Miss Sarah Eckersley's future, now that her father, the late vicar of Helford Green, has passed on -- the nasty new vicar has offered a position as a governess of his equally obnoxious children, while her cousin has decided that she would make him an ideal wife. Sarah, however, has plans of her own. Long ago, she had decided that she would marry her childhood playmate, Jarrod, the fifth Marquess of Shepherdston. Except that Jarrod (the product of uncaring and headless parents) has vowed never to marry. So how does a sheltered young lady go about trying to convince the man of her dreams to marry her? By asking him to tutor her in the arts of seduction, of course. Surely such an audacious plan will make Jarrod sit up and take notice of her! But just how much of her pride Sarah would have to sacrifice, and just how much courage she would have to have was something she had not properly considered. For the gentleman concerned is rather stubborn (even if he is rather taken by her charms). Never fear, though, Sarah is rather stubborn too... <br /> <br />The trouble I had with \\"Hardly a Husband\\" was that I got rather tired of Sarah running after Jarrod all the time; I also never really bought the whole notion that she would actually consider becoming a courtesan, and so rather wondered that Jarrod seemed to take her threat seriously. And then there was the whole subplot dealing with Jarrod's TORTURED PAST and why he would never ever fall in love or marry ever -- this in spite of the fact that two of his closest friends had recently married and were rapturously happy to boot! So that, in spite of my weariness at the much overused spy/intrigue motifs, I really began to wish that there had been some suspense in this book just to keep things humming. However, \\"Hardly a Husband\\" is a rather well written book, and the author does touch on some of the points I've brought up. I just wish that she had gone into it a bit more. Sarah and Jarrod are rather nice individuals but I didn't really buy them as a couple mainly because it took Jarrod forever to realize that he could and was in love with Sarah. In fact I found the very small secondary romance involving Sarah's aunt and Jarrod's uncle had more warmth and was far more romantic. So that all in all I'd vote \\"Hardly a Husband\\" as a nice but somewhat bland read.	2004-10-06
500054:US	52830980	R3UIX37G2YH0HP	0312326270	53814025	A Mourning Wedding (Daisy Dalrymple Mysteries, No. 13)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	charmimg & lightheated: an all around enjoyable read	A wedding in the country, a country manor full of gossipy aristocratic relatives with scandalous secrets to hide, and murder -- it could only be the latest installment in the charming and light hearted Daisy Dalrymple mystery series. In \\"Mourning Wedding,\\" Daisy's good friend, Lucy Fotheringay, is about to be married to her patient and loving longtime beau, Gerald. The wedding is to take place at Lucy's grandfather's palatial manor in the country, and Daisy has agreed to come down ahead of the guests in order to give her friend some much needed moral support. What she finds is Lucy in two minds about whether or not she actually wants to marry Gerald, and a house full of eccentric relatives -- some nice and some rather poisonous. And while Daisy is rather troubled about Lucy's frame of mind, her worries about her friend soon fly out the window when Lucy's grandaunt Eva, a collector of family gossip, is found strangled in bed. Soon, Daisy is trying to figure which one of Lucy's relatives is guilty of murder even as she battles morning sickness. Was grandaunt Eva murdered because of her penchant for collecting scandal? Or is there some mad murderer bent on decimating the Fotheringay family? Fortunately for Daisy, her husband, Chief Inspector Alec Fletcher of Scotland Yard has been assigned to the case, and together they're bound to discover who the murderer is before (s)he can strike again...    If you're in the mood for a nice, well written, lighthearted murder mystery set in the roaring twenties, \\"A Mourning Wedding\\" will definitely please. While not a very \\"deep\\" mystery novel that is full of cunning twists and turns, \\"A Mourning Wedding\\" was such a pleasant and enjoyable read, and Daisy (the detecting heroine) was such a nice and engaging character, that one soon finds oneself deeply immersed in the goings-on in the book. Charming, engaging and thoroughly enjoyable, \\"A Mourning Wedding\\" proved to be an all around pleasing read.	2004-10-05
504366:US	52830980	R160G2QKTMTXEH	0375422986	960033606	The Sunday Philosophy Club : An Isabel Dalhousie Mystery	Books	5	23	32	N	N	beyond 5 stars and a real treat!	Some books are so well written that they're simply a treat to read. \\"The Sunday Philosophy Club\\" is such a book -- written in beautiful prose, this is a book that makes you think. Not only about the mystery at hand, but also about issues like ethics, morality, philosophy, poetry and art. Truth to tell, \\"The Sunday Philosophy Club\\" was a very philosophical read. <br /> <br />An editor for a philosophical journal, Isabel Dalhousie spends a lot of time thinking about thorny issues like truth, morality and social responsibility. And she also likes to try and solve problems, especially the problems of people she knows -- even the ones of people she barely knows. So that when Isabel has the misfortune to witness the falling death of a young man from the balcony of the Edinburgh Concert Hall, curiosity compels Isable to find out more about the young man. Was he suicidal? Or did he simply loose his head because of the height? The more she snoops, the more she discovers that disturbs her. Should Isabel go on, or leave matters well alone? <br /> <br />I really enjoyed \\"The Sunday Philosophy Club.\\" It's been a while since a novel has fully engaged me on levels other than the storyline at hand. I enjoyed Isabel's/the author's ruminations on certain issues such as honesty, truth and moral responsibility. It is true that the novel takes a while to unwind and move forward, but I rather enjoyed the manner in which the author allowed for the mystery subplot to unfold -- in a sedate yet even pace, and full of interesting segues ( like the subplot involving Isabel's niece's unfortunate involvement with an unlikable young man). What really sells this book though is the novel's heroine, Isabel Dalhousie. Intelligent, compassionate, caring and with a very strong sense of moral responsibility, Isabel Dalhousie (who reminded me so very much of Miss Marple -- a very modern, more feminist Miss Marple, that is) was a joy to meet and get to know, and I'm really looking forward eagerly to the next Isabel mystery novel.	2004-10-01
505486:US	52830980	ROT96B0PQOUWZ	0060545801	931716487	Tagged for Murder: A Molly Doyle Mystery	Books	5	11	12	N	N	an excellent read	Fans of Elaine Flinn's Molly Doyle mystery series rejoice: her latest antique-store mystery, \\"Tagged For Murder\\" was as engrossing, absorbing and enjoyable as her first book, \\"Dealing in Murder.\\" <br /> <br />Molly Doyle, a New York transplant is beginning to feel completely at home in Carmel, Ca -- she's picked up the pieces of her life, adapted completely to the more low key pace here, found some good friends, and has completely recovered from her the murder investigation she had gotten entangled with, when (wouldn't you know it) she finds herself coming face to face with another unexpected death, this time that of friend and fellow antique's dealer, Trudy Collins. Found face down on her desk at the Carmel Antiques Show, everyone initially assumes that Trudy had suffered from a heart attack at the show. But Carmel's chief of police's, Kenneth Randall, behaviour makes Molly believe that there is something more to Trudy's death. However, the unexpected appearance of her deceitful long-estranged younger sister, Carrie, soon distracts Molly from the mystery of Trudy's death. Especially when Carrie saddles Molly (permanently) with her 12 year old daughter, Emma, and disappears. Struggling to absorb the latest change in her life, and to ensure that no lasting damage has been done to her clever and sweet natured niece, Molly's composure takes a further knock when she makes the discovery that Carrie knew Trudy and that they were both involved in something shady. Should Molly share her fears with good friend police chief Randall? Or should she try to figure out exactly what Carrie and Trudy were involved in and to try cover Carrie's tracks for Emma's sake? Torn between protecting her sister and doing the right thing, Molly soon finds herself neck deep in murder once again, and dodging yet another determined killer... <br /> <br />Once I started \\"Tagged For Murder\\" I simply had to finish it in one go -- it was that engaging and absorbing. Tautly paced and with quite a few interesting plot twists, I was happily engrossed from beginning to end. The storyline was a very intriguing and interesting one, and Ms Flinn's brilliant and believable character portrayals added to the overall excellence of the novel. And adding to the overall enjoyment to the book, was the wonderful manner in which the authour painted in the quiet charms of Carmel. My advice, if you enjoy absorbing and quiet cozies, that is, is to unplug the 'phone and settle into your favourite chair, \\"Tagged For Murder\\" is a read to be savoured and enjoyed without interruption.	2004-09-30
505849:US	52830980	R6WR7HKBREEOM	0821775073	383129876	The Captain's Mermaid (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	an engaging read mainly because of the novel's heroine	Lavinia Stewart's life is not an easy one. Raised in Jamaica by a kindly uncle, she's now home in England (upon her uncle's death), forced to live with her feckless and rakish brother, raising his two motherless children, and trying to run a ramshackle house with very little money. Fortunately for Lavinia, hers is a loving and pragmatic disposition, and instead of bemoaning her lot, has thrown herself into raising her nephew and niece to the best of her abilities. That is until she meets her new neighbour, Captain William Braedon Chartwell, a brusque and autocratic gentleman, who raises her hackles even as he makes her pulses race. Soon she and the captain are trading barbs and child-rearing advice (the captain has a ward about the same age as her nephew). And then Lavinia's horrid brother returns with plans of his own for her. Rescue comes is the unexpected shape of the autocratic Captain Chartwell, who offers her his hand in marriage but not his heart. Should Lavinia accept the captain's offer, or should she carry on to stand on her own two feet? And what of her inexplicable feelings for him... <br /> <br />The latest installment in a series of Regency-era romance novels that focuses on the aristocratic Braedon family, \\"The Captain's Mermaid\\" made for compelling reading mainly because of the book's heroine, Lavinia Stewart. Capable, intelligent and possessing a very loving heart, Lavinia completely aroused my sympathy and empathy, so that, even though I was in two minds about the hero of the piece (the bitter and angry Captain William Braedon Chartwell), the fact that she wanted a happily ever-after ending with the twit, made me root for her to obtain her heart's desire. After all no one else was going to turn up. And even though the captain exasperated me no end, all in all he wasn't too awful. Just a little demented when it came to his estranged siblings (did he somehow expect for his siblings to possess the gift of telepathy, so that they would have known of his existence in spite of everything? And did he never wonder about what their lives must have been like, growing up with the cold and autocratic father who rejected him?) It was not easy to warm up to the captain: he spends about half the book lusting after Lavinia and arguing with her about everything under the sun; and when he does realise that his attraction to her might actually be something warmer, more wholesome and more long-lasting than lust, a conflict is introduced that makes him act in a very cruel and mean spirited way. So that the urge to brain the man and to wish ardently that Lavinia would just pack her bags, take the children and go, began to grow in me. Fortunately, a couple of pages later, the captain does come to his senses, and behaves appropriately to his loving wife (though I would have preferred a lot more groveling on his part). On the whole though, this was a very well written book. Mary Blayney did a superb job of presenting the difficulties of Lavinia's situation, and of depicting action aboard a naval vessel during war. Her character portrayals (both primary and secondary) were very well done. And if the captain wasn't exactly lovable, it wasn't too much of a quibble. \\"The Captain's Mermaid\\" was still a very compelling and engrossing read, and well worth a 4 star rating.	2004-09-29
512117:US	52830980	RDPJBVR491E0C	0765304007	148487668	Petty Treason: A Sarah Tolerance Mystery	Books	5	14	15	N	N	"unputdownable" -- it was that good a read	Fast paced, exciting and thrilling, this latest Sarah Tolerance (pre) Regency-era mystery novel was a treat to read from start to finish. Stuck on a 'plane for an uncomfortable 9 hours, having this wonderfully absorbing and unputdownable book to read was a godsend! Madeline E. Robbins has created a rather unique new series (only two books in the series so far) that every historical mystery lover should read. And her heroine is totally out of the ordinary too: intelligent, independent, intriguing and likable. SIT UP AND TAKE NOTICE: THIS IS NOT A SERIES TO BE MISSED! <br /> <br />All of London is shocked and agog about the brutal murder of Chevalier d'Aubigny -- somehow a murderer had gained access to the Chevalier's London house and savagely beat the man to death in his own while his entire household. How was the murderer able to get in and out of a locked house without detection? And how was he able to commit so brutal a crime without awakening any in the house? Worried that the murderer may come after his sister, the Chevalier's wife, Mr. Colcannon hires Miss Sarah Tolerance, a private inquiry agent to discover who murdered the Chevalier and to protect his sister's interests. Soon, Miss Tolerance finds herself moving about both amongst both the high and low of society as she tries to discover more about the murdered man -- what kind of man he really was and who his friends and enemies were. And what she discovers (almost at once) dismays her: for while the Chevalier was not a well liked man, the person with the biggest motive for seeing him dead was his wife, her client. But Miss Tolerance instinctively knows that her client was incapable of so brutal a murder no matter the provocation. And determined to protect the helpless widow, goes after the truth with a vengeance. <br /> <br />From the very start I was hooked. \\"Petty Treason\\" was a swiftly paced and suspenseful read, full of interesting twists and turns, and with some truly fascinating red herring suspects.The storyline was an intriguing and captivating one, and was very well crafted indeed. Also well done was the manner in which the author allowed for the level of suspense and tension to gradually build. But what really hooked my interest was the character of Robins' heroine, Sarah Tolerance. Intelligent, frighteningly capable and compassionate, Miss Tolerance engages the reader's interest on every level -- in spite of the author's tendency to refer to her heroine as \\"Miss Tolerance,\\" something that manages to distance the reader from the heroine, I thought. All in all though, if you're looking for a thrilling, exciting, action-packed novel, with a fascinating heroine, and that vividly (and accurately) portrays life in the early 19th century London, you'll want to read \\"Petty Treason.\\" A truly unputdownable book. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-09-23
512292:US	52830980	RBN9L5BZXUWU5	031231874X	438194556	A Meeting of Minds: A Superintendent Mike Yeadings Mystery	Books	3	2	2	N	N	well written British police procedural	Beattie Weyman was very excited about her new undertaking. Using her recent inheritance, Beattie has bought once elegant now almost falling apart Ashbourne House in order to convert (and renovate) the building into 6 luxurious flats which she would then rent to people she had specially vetted. Her dream, however, soon becomes a nightmare, when roughly 9 weeks after all the tenants had moved in, one of them, Sheila Winters, is found murdered in a pub parking lot. But even as Beattie and her other tenants struggle to absorb the fact that quiet, nondescript Sheila has become a fatality in a brutal crime, they little realise that Sheila's murder is only the beginning in a string of strange and savage attacks that seem to dog these new tenants... <br /> <br />\\"A Meeting of Minds\\" is a quiet, intelligent and compelling British police procedural that is bound to intrigue. Clare Curzon does a wonderful job of sketching out the characters (both primary and secondary) involved in this particular mystery, inviting our interest and making us care about them and the mystery at hand. I'll admit, however, to feeling slightly frustrated that the clues were far and between, thus not allowing the reader to solve the case along with the police officers. However, \\"A Meeting of Minds\\" was a well written mystery novel and a compelling one too, so that niggles aside, I'd vote it as a good 3 star read.	2004-09-23
525554:US	52830980	R1EETIT3ILAULK	0743477707	314943593	In the Prince's Bed (The Royal Brotherhood)	Books	4	67	68	N	N	I may be in the minority here but I liked Katherine!	The first installment in a trilogy (The Royal Brotherhood) that, in my opinion anyway is off to a good start. \\"The Prince in My Bed\\" engaged my interest primarily because I came to care, early on, for both the principal characters (Alec, the Earl of Iversley, & Katherine Merivale). Yes, the storyline is a much used one (Alec is penniless and must marry money in order to repair his estate; and while Katherine is an heiress, she's living in penury herself until she marries), and yes, Ms Jeffries doesn't exactly put a new or fresh twist on her particular version of this much used storyline, but then she does provide us with a lot of tantalising sizzle in the interactions between Alec and Katherine as she makes her case as to why these two characters should end up with each other. Nowadays, many storylines are rehashed ones, and not every authour is able to out a new or unique twist on an oft told tale. So that for me the true test as to whether or not the book is a one worth recommending sometimes boils down to the main characters: are they likable, if we care for them and if we empathise with the situations they find themselves in. Reading over the other reviews, I noticed that while everyone feels for Alec, very few have any sympathy at all for Katherine. So, I'm going to mount a defense for poor Katherine, whom I really empathised with.  <br /> <br />Here's a young heroine, up in town for her first season, and she needs to find a husband so that she can (finally) touch her inheritance that her family so desperately needs. She thought she had everything figured out since her childhood sweetheart (a sober and trustworthy gentleman) has more or less promised to marry her -- except that he keeps putting off officially asking for her hand because of his mother's \\"illness.\\" And then Alec turns up and makes a dead set at her. Now Katherine suffers from another handicap: her father was a hopeless rake who quite beggared the family. And based on her parents' tempestuous relationship, and her bedside reading material, \\"A Rake Rhetorick,\\" (a primer with instructions on how to woo and seduce a young lady), Katherine has quite a healthy distrust for handsome, rakish men. Some readers have been dismayed at Katherine's lack of trust, and how she would keep on defending Sydney (her childhood sweetheart), and keeping Alec at arm's length. But as Katherine notes over and over again, the one reason she doesn't trust him completely is because she senses that he's hiding something from her: and she's right, Alec is pretending to be a rich suitor so that Katherine will not think of his as a fortune hunter. And I'm not sure about other readers, but I'd much rather have a heroine who's awake on all suits to a foolish one who loses her head the moment a tall, dark stranger starts wooing her! And anyway, Katherine's natural doubts about Alec keeps the book humming and moving forwards. It's readily evident that in spite of her natural reservations, she's quickly falling in love with Alec. And knowing exactly what it was that Alec was keeping from her, I was curious to see how the authour would resolve everything and achieve the happily ever-after ending. And I was relieved that Ms Jeffries resolved everything very well and credibly too.  <br /> <br />I'm still not sure what all the fuss was about. Reading some of the reviews I got the impression that Katherine was a real witch. And she's anything but! And truthfully speaking my issue with \\"In the Prince's Bed\\" was the language -- it was far too modern. And I suppose I'm not too sure about the title either. But then I haven't been sure about many titles for quite a while now. So here's my take: if you're looking for a book with plenty of tempting sizzle, \\"In the Prince's Bed\\" in spite of it's much overused plot premise, is just the ticket! <br />	2004-09-11
527252:US	52830980	RV5NGDXR6R4B0	0373770065	163839408	The Butler Did It (HQN Books)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	a wonderfully entertaining frolic	After 5 years of self imposed exile, Morgan Drummond, the Marquis of Westham, has decided to leave his country estate and return to London for the season so that he can find a suitably demure and even tempered wife. By now, he's sure that 1) the scandal that he had precipitated by challenging his best friend to a duel while drunk would have been forgotten, and 2) that he is able to control his easily raised short temper. But when he arrives at his London house, he discovers that his enterprising butler, Thornley, has for the past two years, been leasing rooms to those who want to partake in the season. And currently, the marquis is (unknowingly) 'hosting' a colourful group of people from a con artist out to pull his last con, to a might be murderess, to the almost penniless Clifford family that's come to London in order to net the beautiful and fiery Emma Clifford a rich husband. When Morgan discovers what's going on, he doesn't know if he should murder his butler or throw out his 'guests' first. That is until he meets Emma who tries (and fails) to blackmail him; and grandmother Clifford (Fanny), a woman with a highly colourful past who successfully blackmails him into letting them all stay on, and into squiring Emma about town. Soon Morgan finds himself at every fashionable do with Emma on his arm, only to make the startling discovery that he's more occupied with keeping an eye on the infuriating termagant instead of finding a proper wife for himself! Could Morgan (horror of horrors) be falling in love with Emma?  <br /> <br />\\"The Butler Did It\\" definitely can be classified as a Regency-era romp, and what a fun read it was too. Kasey Michaels was one of the first authours I started off with when I discovered Regency-era romance novels -- light, funny and fast paced, her early books were a joy to me back then. And \\"The Butler Did It\\" really fits into this mold of her earlier works. I finished the book before I even knew it. Morgan and Emma were a joy to read about:their interaction was witty, humorous and fiery -- definitely a pair that was meant for each other. And I rather enjoyed Emma's mother (who tends to think in Capital Letters) and her romance with the butler, Thornley as well. However, I did think that Ms Michaels may have gone overboard with her quirky characters and funny incidents. Even though they contributed magnificently to the confusion and profusion of goings-on, I really didn't think that Cliff (Emma's idiot brother), Riley (the rascally footman), Claramae (the somewhat simpleminded housemaid with big breasts whom Riley lusts after) or Mrs. Olive Norbet (the might-be murderess) was all that essential to the story (ditto the entire subplot where grandmother Clifford, Fanny decides to join the con-artist in his con). Since I was enjoying Morgan and Emma and Daphne and Thornley, these other characters and the things they got up to were real distractions at times. However, that is just my opinion. All I'll note is that if you're looking for a funny, light read which possesses an intelligent and quick witted heroine and a plain speaking and masterful (but not stuffy) hero, and lots of hilarious goings-on, this is definitely the book for you. Also, I forgot to note: the funny introduction and the neat epilogue in themselves make for fantastic reading, and sets the tone and mood of \\"The Butler Did It\\" wonderfully.	2004-09-09
528268:US	52830980	RWD36K5MZ6421	0821776592	42597225	An Honorable Match (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	4 1/2 stars: a satisfying read on every level	Lord William Cates, the younger brother of the \\"wild\\" Duke of Cambermere, has spent a life time untangling and smoothing over every mess that his elder brother has managed to create. But even he is stumped as to what he can do about his brother's latest start. For while still engaged to one young lady (Lady Sarah Harrison), the Duke has upped and married his mistress, Harriet Partridge, a Drury Lane actress, instead. William is aghast, but his brother doesn't seem to have a care in the world, and has left it to him to break the news to Lady Sarah. A correct and proper young man, who has managed to carve out a career for himself as a diplomat, Lord William could do without the scandal; and decides that the best way to smooth things over would be for him to travel to Yorkshire to see Lady Sarah, break the news of her jilting and to offer to marry her himself. Only to find that things are in even more of a coil than he had expected. For while he knew that Lord Glenmont and his family were quite penniless, he was not prepared for just how bad things really were. Up to their eyes in debt, the only way to save things is if Lady Sarah marries money. And Lord William Cates, with his quiet and stuffy manners and who has very little money to his name, just would not do, no matter how charming she finds him. The only thing left for Lady Sarah to do is to go to London in order to find a rich husband, who would be prepared to marry her for her ancient name. What Lady Sarah finds in London however is that she has become the object of ridicule because of her jilting, and Lord William who seems to have assumed the mantle of friend and advisor. Something she finds both exasperating and thrilling. For how is she to keep her mind on finding a suitable husband when all she can think of is the modestly incomed and proper Lord William Cates?  <br /> <br />\\"An Honorable Match\\" is a very sobering read about the dire straits that an intelligent, courageous and penniless young lady (who's not a raving beauty) finds herself in and her attempts to find a rich husband admidst a scandal not of her making. Lady Sarah is very easy to empathise with and take to -- even her stubbornness and pride is understandable and condoned, thanks to Laura Paquet's skillful portrayal. The authour's sympathetic and engaging portrayal of the much tried Lord William was well done too; as was the simmering romance that developed between the two principals. \\"An Honorable Match\\" stands out as a slightly different kind of Regency-era romance novel: it's achingly sobering. I felt for both characters who realised early on the attraction they felt for each other, but who also realised that circumstances dictated that they not act on it. It was not a book that was full of whimsical and wacky episodes; nor was it a book about the pleasures of the London season. For Lady Sarah each outing is a strain and a chore as she struggles to try and fit in, say the right things and attract that right kind of attention. So that when the novel finally ends, and the happily ever-after is finally achieved, there was an overwhelming sense of relief on my part. One cannot argue about personal tastes: previous novels by Laura Paquet hadn't really struck me as being extraordinarily special; but I did like \\"An Honorable Match\\" enormously, and based on this experience, will be looking out for her next Regency-ear novel.	2004-09-08
530105:US	52830980	R2U1J7ZZPLBQ36	0451212894	466601577	The Madcap Heiress (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	a pleasant read...	Emily Hendrickson's latest offering is another tale that centers on yet another Herbert sibling -- this time the only son of the affable rector, Mr. George Herbert. For those not already in the know, Mr Herbert is a nice, scholarly and upright vicar of noble lineage but slender means; he's also the father of five daughters and one son. Previous books in the Herbert series have dealt with four of the sisters; \\"The Madcap Heiress\\" focuses on Adam Herbert, the vicar's only son.  <br /> <br />With little money and practically no prospects, the future for young Adam Herbert is looking particularly grim. Fortunately for Adam, he does have one small hope. Adam is the grand nephew of the Earl of Stanwell. And Adam rather hopes that if he makes the Earl's acquaintance, the old man just might help him find a position as an estate steward. And so Adam leaves home for Stanwell Court, where, to his pleasure, he's openly welcomed by his grand relatives. But even more pleasurable is the presence of the beauteous, impetuous and exceedingly rich Emma Lawrence (the daughter of his uncle's neighbour). Adam has never a young lady who exasperates yet who still manages to captivate him so. But no young heiress would ever consider the son of a rector who has no money or prospects a worthy match. Emma, however, has worries of her own: her father wants her to marry her loutish and loathsome cousin, Claude. So if Adam cannot aspire for her hand in marriage, perhaps he can still keep his lady free from harm... <br /> <br />\\"The Madcap Heiress\\" was a pleasant enough read -- nothing earth-shatteringly new or novel, just a quietly pleasant tale about a nice and deserving young man and the strong minded and impetuous young woman he falls in love with. Adam is not your usual Regency-era hero: he's quiet, gentle, and possesses fine manners and scruples -- scruples that actually forbid him from openly acting on his feelings for Emma given his situation. Some readers may be disappointed in Adam, butI found Adam refreshingly different and exactly how I'd expect the nicely brought up son of a rector to behave. The problem with \\"The Madcap Heiress\\" lay in the behaviour of our heroine, Emma. Now, I did develop quite a bit of sympathy for Emma. Ignored by her father most of the time, except on the issue of her prospective husband (though how any worthy father could expect his only child to marry a wastrel and a bully, esp one that his daughter openly expresses disdain and contempt, I'm not sure), I could see why she would have developed such a strong-willed and impetuous nature. But even I couldn't quite believe some of the foolish and daft things that she did. They really beggared belief! This one quibble apart, \\"The Madcap Heiress\\" was a rather enjoyable read. I esp liked how the authour showed us the strong bonds of friendship and affection that the Earl & Countess of Stanwell, Emma and her best friend, Gussie, had for each other; her vivid and luxurious portrayal of Emma's and Gussie's shopping spree in Bath; and her accurate and painful depiction of the straits that Emma finds herself in thanks to her father. So if you're looking for a nice, light and pleasant read, \\"The Madcap Heiress\\" definitely makes for a satisfying 3 star read.	2004-09-07
534834:US	52830980	RRBNENN1VBXTJ	0425197158	945464445	Murder in a Mill Town (Gilded Age Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	4	32	33	N	N	a wonderful new series to check out	For the many fans of historical mysteries in Victorian America (esp if you're a huge Victoria Thompson fan), here's another addicting and absorbing series to check out: P. B. Ryan's Gilded Age Mysteries, featuring intrepid governess and sleuth, Nell Sweeney. I haven't read \\"Still Life Under Murder\\" yet, but based on my favourable impression of \\"Murder in a Mill Town,\\" I will definitely be reading that book soon. <br /> <br />When mill worker, Bridget Fallon, fails to return home after a night out with her ex-felon boy friend, her mother is naturally frantic. By now Bridget has been missing for three days, and Mrs. Fallon cannot get anyone to take her fears seriously. Everyone, from the police to Harry Hewitt (the second son of that fabulously rich and upper-class family) who runs the mill, assumes that Bridget has run off with her beau, Virgil Hines. But Mrs. Fallon is sure that her daughter wouldn't do anything like that, and is afraid for Bridget's safety. Undeterred, Mrs. Fallon turns to Mrs. Hewitt (Harry's mother) in order to ask for her help. Being kind hearted and moved by Mrs. Fallon's obvious distress, Mrs. Hewitt in turns asks Nell Sweeney (her granddaughter's governess) to look into the matter. A child of the streets, Nell has raised herself to her current position through sheer hard work and determination. If anyone can help the Fallons, it's Nell. And because Nell has a great affection for her employer, she agrees to do a spot of investigating. Little did Nell expect, however, that this investigation would bring her face to face with a past that she had thought to be long buried -- a past, furthermore that could jeopardize the new life she has carved out for herself... <br /> <br />Swiftly paced and with quite a few cunning plot twists, \\"Murder in a Mill Town\\" was an enjoyable read from start to finish. At the heart of the series is the character of Nell Sweeney: an intelligent, intrepid and courageous woman who doesn't hesitate to do the right thing nomatter the cost. Nell, is the main reason why this series really works and is so compelling. And by throwing in Nell's complicated and darker past into the mix, \\"Murder in a Mill Town\\" became an even more engaging and poignant read. With good historical detail and a cast of well fleshed out characters, \\"Murder in a Mill Town\\" makes for great reading.	2004-09-02
534873:US	52830980	R3S8KPTF2J79LB	0060567090	31908434	The Return of the Earl (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	3 1/2 stars: good read but could have been so much better...	The good news is that Edith Layton's latest novel is a well written one with a sensible and likable hero and heroine, and a good story that promised to be a good read; the bad news is that once I had finished the book, I couldn't help feel as if that promise of a good, intriguing and absorbing read hadn't really materialize. <br /> <br />Christian Sauvage was a child of 12 when he and his father were accused and convicted of theft. And because they were related to the powerful Earl of Egremont, and because the earl didn't want too much scandal associated with his name, Christian and his father were not hanged but transported to Botany Bay instead. Now, almost fifteen years later, Christian receives news that he is the new Earl of Egremont. Determined to clear his and his father's names, Christian crosses the seas to claim the title, throwing his remaining relatives into a dither of confusion and anger. Is Christian really who he claims to be, or is he an impostor? For Sophie Wiley who is all set to marry Hammond Sauvage (the one everyone thought was the heir before Christian turned up), there can be little doubt. And with her parents' contrivance, sends for her charming and sensible cousin, Julianne Lowell, who knew Christian before he was transported, to see if Julianne can trip up the impostor. Will Julianne expose the newcomer as an impostor, or will she recognize him as her childhood playmate? And will it matter either way? For Julianne has made the distressing realization that she's very much attracted to the man who calls himself 'Christian' and that she's rather hoping that he does indeed turn out to be the new Earl of Egremont... <br /> <br />If you're in a mood for a talky kind of romance novel, then \\"The Return of the Earl\\" will be your cup of tea. For a little more than half the novel nothing much happens except for the characters talking and rehashing certain issues over and over again: Christian and Julianne getting to know each other a little more andgrowing closer to each other (something I really liked), to Sophie's constant throwing some fit or the other (which I quickly grew bored with), and trying to manipulate/blackmail Julianne to doing her bidding... I rather like talky novels, but even I was looking for something or the other to happen. Of course something does -- but so does a whole lot more talking as well! And then there was the one niggle I had with the entire premise of \\"The Return of the Earl:\\" was Christian and his father pardoned by the Crown for their supposed crimes? Did I miss that bit somewhere in my reading? Because unless they were, I rather doubt that Christian could have returned to England, much less inherit a title. On the other hand, I really enjoyed Christian and Julianne as a couple. I haven't come across such a grown-up, mature and intelligent hero and heroine in a long while (we're usually lucky if either the hero or the heroine is mature and intelligent). All in all a mixed reaction from me: I loved the romance but felt that more could have been done with the unfolding of the storyline, esp the bit that dealt with Christian's attempts to establish his and his father's innocence.	2004-09-02
544879:US	52830980	R27DW7EA9FQEHZ	0451212703	867138487	A Passionate Endeavor (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	warm, romantic and very engrossing	I'll confess: I probably numbered amongst the very few who didn't think that Sophia Nash's first Regency (\\"A Secret Passion\\") was anything out of the ordinary. On the other hand, \\"A Passionate Endeavor\\" really is something special. Beautifully written and with engaging and taking characters, \\"A Passionate Endeavor\\" would rank as a keeper on anyone's romance shelf! <br /> <br />Charlotte Knight had quite resigned herself to her fate as being firmly on the shelf; and fortunately for her, she had her work as her father's (a physician) assistant to fill her days and energies. That is until she met the eldest son of her father's latest patient, Lord Nicholas Huntington. Home from the wars, and badly wounded in the leg, Lord Nicholas is every young lady's dream come true: kind, courteous, intelligent and quite good looking. Except that Lord Nicholas has sworn never to marry -- not that so eligible gentleman would ever look at her and think of marriage anyway! And then there is the dark mood that seems to haunt and torment Lord Nicholas, as well as his family's strange behaviour... Can Charlotte help Lord Nicholas with his troubles, and in so doing win his heart and esteem? And will he let her? <br /> <br />\\"A Passionate Endeavor\\" is, I think, Sophia Nash's homage to Jane Austen. And what a homage it is too. Using quotes from Austen's novels and letters to head each chapter, Ms Nash sets the mood and tone. I thoroughly enjoyed \\"A Passionate Endeavor.\\" It had everything from an intelligent and courageous heroine to a noble honourable and tormented, who comes complete with a cold and snobbish stepmother, a spoilt younger half-brother; a simple but affecting story, and a nice prose style. It was a good and satisfying read. Except that (and this is just me being nit-picky) I really couldn't understand the behaviour of Lord Nicholas' father's, the ailing Duke of Cavendish, doltish behaviour. How could a loving and intelligent man have allowed his cold and autocratic second wifeto treat his son and daughter so? And how could he think that waiting around for Lord Nicholas to decide to stop being so high minded and self sacrificing and do the right thing, was a good idea? Did he never consider the fact that things may not go as he had hopes? Like, the fact that Lord Nicholas could have carried on being self sacrificing to the very end? However, aside from the duke's bizarre behaviour, I found \\"A Passionate Endeavor\\" to be and engrossing, touching and romantic read and well worth buying, reading and keeping.	2004-08-24
549086:US	52830980	RFX0FQ7GQ3W1H	0316735922	974258049	Deception: A Novel	Books	4	35	38	N	N	a compelling read: well worth the "sticking-out" factor	Highly acclaimed mystery novelist, Denise Mina, has, in my opinion, penned another intriguing and compelling read in \\"Deception.\\" Although, I'll have to admit, this novel may not be every reader's cup of tea. The chief protagonist, Lachlan Harriot, the husband of convicted murderess, Susie, is in turns pathetic, whinny, vindictive and unsympathetic. But, I'll have to admit, when he finally works out what has been happening, and finally took action (of a sort) I was on his side -- which probably does not speak well of me! <br /> <br />When Dr. Susie Harriot, former psychiatrist of Sunnyfields State Mental Hospital, is found guilty of the murder of Andrew Gow (a former patient and paroled serial murderer-rapist), her husband, Lachlan decides to try and discover new evidence that will help in her appeal. Lachlan firmly believes that his wife is completely incapable of having brutally murdered Gow, or having had anything to do with the disapperance of Gow's new young wife, Donna. The prosecution had contended that Susie was having an affair with Gow while he was her patient, and that she had murdered Gow (and by inference the missing Donna) out of revenge for being dumped in favour of Donna. And while Lachlan may not be sure about the supposed affair between Susie and Gow, he knows that his wife is incapable of murder. Or is she? For once Lachlan begins to nose about Susie's papers, in her own private study (one that she had locked him out off), he begins to discover all kinds of things, and comes to the conclusion that he may not know his wife all that well after all. Could Susie have had an affair with Gow after all? And is the mother of his young daughter a vicious murderess? Desperate for answers, Lachlan decides to follow all the clues to the bitter end... <br /> <br />Strangely enough, \\"Deception\\" turned out to be a very compelling read. Lachlan Harriot may not always be a very sympathetic narrator, and the urge to kick him in the seat of his pants (not because ofhis constant whining) because of his frequent non-active stance really grows as the book progresses. But Denise Mina's incisive portrait of a fractured marriage, and of one partner's total obliviousness to what was going on, and the totally unexpected (and completely chilling) plot twist at the end, made \\"Deception\\" a book well worth recommending the sticking out factor. The novel may take a while to unwind and to get into, but it is well worth it! <br /> <br />	2004-08-20
556637:US	52830980	R3MPNTCWOTWUIV	1569473714	364534756	Midnight Band of Mercy: a novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	2 1/2 stars: good story but lacking in tight focus	A stringer for the New York Herald, Max Greengrass is desperate to become a contracted employee for the newspaper. So that when he comes across the bizarre sight of four dead cats neatly lined up in a Greenwich Village sidewalk one predawn morning, something tells him that there's a big story there that just might make him a name. And so Max begins to earnestly follow the trail that takes to the very lowest (and poorest) levels of humanity as well as the very best that that society has to offer. But it was murder begins to dog his trail that Max begins to wonder exactly what it is that he has stumbled upon and to fear for his life... <br /> <br />Even though this was a very well researched novel (it is completely evident that the authour knows his material and has a good grasp of both the political and social history of the period), I didn't find this mystery novel made for very compelling reading. Perhaps it had to do with the narrative style which I found to be not very engaging (ditto the main character, Max Greengrass); or perhaps it was because I thought that the book lacked focus and tension. \\"The Midnight Band of Mercy seemed to circle around certain themes and motifs instead of focusing solely on the mystery on hand -- a factor that I found to be rather frustrating. Although things did tighten up about a two-thirds into the book. Also, I was disappointed that the levels of tensions and suspense were rather low.  <br /> <br />So, was \\"The Midnight Band of Mercy\\" a good read? While, in my opinion, the novel lacked a certain lyricism I like books to have, it was an interesting read. And, if it had been a more focused novel, it would have been a rather good read as well. All in all 2 1/2 stars.	2004-08-14
559513:US	52830980	RG6I8I88SMOGM	0385337949	843150758	Lucifer's Shadow	Books	5	16	18	N	N	tamtalising, mesmerising, and completely absorbing	Moving swiftly between tow subplots that are set three centuries apart (one subplot is set in 1700s Venice, while the other is in modern day Venice), and both focusing on the music world of both eras, David Hewson weaves another brilliantly gripping and mesmerizing tale of intrigue, deception and murder. <br /> <br />A young Oxford academic, Daniel Foster is thrilled to be in Venice, esp since he's being paid a small stipend by Signor Scacchi to catalogue his library. Scacchi desperately hopes that Daniel will find some lost treasure that will replenish the ailing old man's much depleted coffers. What Daniel finds is a lost masterpiece for violin and orchestra. Excited, Scacchi comes up with a plan to fully exploit this find, a plan that will put Daniel firmly in the center of a maelstrom of deception, intrigue and murder, and that will bring him to the notice of the sinister and powerful antiques dealer, Hugh Massiter... <br /> <br />Cut to 1733, where another young man, Lorenzo Scacchi, has come to Venice (upon the death of his parents) in order to work for his uncle, a well respected printer. It is the era of Canaletto and Vivaldi, and through his uncle, young Lorenzo finds himself rubbing elbows with the artists, the eccentric rich, and the beautiful and talented Rebecca. A musical prodigy, Rebecca (who is a Jew) is willing to break Venetian law that forbids her to play with Vivaldi (in a church) and after curfew, and the wholly smitten Lorenzo finds himself completely willing to help her escape all the social constraints placed on her in spite of the cost to the both of them (and their families) if they are found out! As both subplots of \\"Lucifer's Shadow\\" progress, it soon becomes evident both Daniel and Lorenzo are navigating the same path between treachery and honour; and as the intrigue and deception deepens ,it also becomes readily evident that the stakes are not so much survival as the price of one's soul... <br /> <br />\\"Lucifer's Shadow\\" made for a truly absorbing read. The mysteries are many (from an old murder case of a young violinist, to the Scacchis and their connection to the violin piece that Daniel finds, to the sinister Hugh Massiter and his connection with everything), so that any lover of mystery and intrigue novels will be happily absorbed throughout. The pacing was swift and the descriptions of Venice (both in the 1700s & modern day) were lyrical and vivid. As for the manner in which the authour brought both subplots together, that was brilliantly done and rather clever. All in all, \\"Lucifer's Shadow\\" was a haunting and mesmerising novel, suspenseful and completely compelling. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-11
561462:US	52830980	RYOBOLQXO3KEE	1559707135	509620722	The Verge Practice: A Kathy and Brock Mystery (Kathy and Brock Mysteries)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	a thoroughly absorbing read	When Charles Verge's young wife is found savagely murdered in their luxurious apartment, and when Verge himself seems to have gone missing, the hunt for the killer also becomes tied to the search for the missing architect. Did Verge kill his wife and then runaway? Or is Verge himself also dead, the victim of the same brutal killer who had killed his wife? After months of no progress and many mysterious Charles Verge sightings all over Europe, the case is given to Chief Inspector Brock and his team to solve. The police have always believed that Verge had murdered his wife and done a bunk, and it's a theory that Brock leans heavily towards in spite of new evidence (both forensic and financial) that seems to implicate Verge's business partner, Sandy Clarke. Is Clarke guilty of the double murder of the Verges? As Brock and his team go over all the evidence, Brock cannot escape the feeling that they are all being manipulated. But by whom and why? <br /> <br />I'm a huge fan of the Kathy and Brock mysteries, and have enjoyed all the books in the series. \\"The Verge Practice\\" is, I think, the best of the five so far. In this installment, even though D.S. Kathy Kolla does most of the leg work, we really get to see why Brock is considered, by many, to be a brilliant detective. Brock has instincts that allow him to \\"look\\" at a case in a certain way in spite of the mounting evidence. (And I really didn't understand where the reviewer from Publishers Weekly got the impression that there was very little communication going on between Brock and Kathy, or that they worked independently of each other. The only time Kathy works without Brock's sanction is at the end of the book, and you'll have to read for yourself she does this). And it was a real treat to \\"see\\" how Brock's mind works.  <br /> <br />Possessing a clever and intriguing storyline, brilliantly plotted and smoothly and evenly paced, \\"The Verge Practice\\" was a thoroughly enjoyable read, and one that I cannot recommend enough. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-09
564166:US	52830980	RARU8UHF8G8L3	0066212960	493637212	The Pearl Diver (Massey, Sujata)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	well written, totally abosrbing and wholly addicting	Rei and Hugh are finally engaged, and Rei should be frantically preparing for her upcoming wedding. Except that a strange kind of malaise seems to have infected her: she's beginning to dislike living in Washington D.C. and she's really missing living in Japan. So that when (through her well connected cousin, Kendall) Rei is presented with the opportunity of decorating a new and trendy Japanese restaurant, Bento, Rei fairly leaps at the chance to earn some money. Plus she may actually latch onto a new market for her antique goods!  <br /> <br />Working at Bento, Rei becomes acquainted with the restaurant's prickly hostess, Andrea -- a seemingly cold and standoffish individual, and not someone that Rei would want as a friend. So that when Andrea asks Rei to help her discover what happened to her mother, Rei is floored. But Andrea's story of how her Japanese mother, Sadako, broke with tradition in order to marry Andrea's father (an African American soldier) in the midst of the Vietnam war, of Sadako's subsequent disappearance almost 30 years ago, and her father's reluctance to divulge anything to Andrea that could help her understand Sadako's disappearance, moves and intrigues Rei; and she soon finds herself totally absorbed with Andrea's problem to the extent that she's even involved her wise and beloved visiting Aunt Norie in her investigation. The more Rei uncovers about Sadako and her early difficulties in trying to adapt to her life in America and as a new wife, the more Rei begins to question her the wisdom of getting married so soon. Defnitely, her love for Hugh is true and all consuming (as is his love for her) but is it enough? Can Rei give up her independence and become the perfect wife? And can she make do with life in America when she still wistfully yearns to return to Japan? <br /> <br />Like the previous reviewers, I'm a fan of Sujata Massey's Rei Shimura mystery novels. What I liked about them, other than that they're well written, totally absorbing andwholly addicting, is the manner in which the authour also makes the dilemmas that a young, not so well off, modern and independent woman would feel and go through as she tries to adjust to the many vagaries that life throws at her, an integral part of the series. The mystery of what happened to Andrea's mother (Is she alive or dead? Why did she disappear and is there some dark reason for her disappearance?) doesn't really get introduced until we're about 4 or 5 chapters into \\"The Pearl Diver;\\" however, because we are treated to an update on what's going on with Rei and Hugh, and a good and succinct description of the what's going on at the restaurant and the characters involved, the reader's interest is quickly snagged and engaged from the very first page. The mystery subplot dealing with the missing Sadako was a very intriguing and interesting one, and I rather wished that \\"The Pearl Diver\\" had dwelt solely on that mystery subplot instead of sharing it with the mysterious kidnapping subplot involving Rei's cousin, Kendall. On the whole, though, \\"The Pearl Diver\\" was a wonderful read, and one that I enjoyed completely, esp since the authour had thoughtfully included Rei's Japanese aunt, Norie (one of my favourite characters) in this installment.	2004-08-06
567719:US	52830980	R1N426PWDMQNIE	0312328516	292698992	Darkness Falls	Books	5	3	3	N	N	a well crafted thriller	Fast paced and chilling, &quot;Darkness Falls&quot; is a thriller that will definitely please even the most fastidious of readers. I certainly was hooked by the time I had finished the first chapter. And even though I (again) suffered from a lack of a proper night's sleep, it was well worth it. <br />  <br /> It's Pippa Pascal's birthday, and the nine year old wants her mother, high-flying lawyer, Clara, to take her to school. And so, even though she shouldn't, Clara makes the time in order to take Pippa to school on this important day. But outside the school gates, things go terribly wrong, when a masked man jumps out of a nondescript van and grabs Clara, bundling her into the van and driving away. Within minutes the police are on the scene; unfortunately, even though Pippa was a witness to her mother's kidnapping, the traumatized little girl is of little help. As the police try to figure out if Clara was kidnapped for ransom, or if she was snatched because of her involvement in the very high profile prosecution of a crime boss, the once totally in control Clara Pascal, imprisoned in a cellar and chained to a wall, battles for her life and sanity as she tries to figure out who kidnapped and her and why. But the more she learns, the more she realizes just how precarious her position is and how much she has to fear from this very determined man who seems to have some very firm ideas about what Clara should experience... <br />  <br /> &quot;Darkness Falls in a very superbly crafted thriller that centers wholly on the character of Clara Pascal -- who she was, what she did, and her reactions to being imprisoned and controlled by her masked jailer. Slowly we get to know Clara -- to admire her tenacity and courage, even as we dislike her (past) single-minded dedication to her profession. And even though the book focuses equally on the police investigation and the killer's sick fantasies (there is a subplot involving the serial killer), reading of Clara's attempts to connect with her kidnapper is what made &quot;Darkness Falls&quot; riveting. Swiftly and tautly paced and with mounting levels of tension, &quot;watching&quot; how Margaret Murphy brings both these subplots together is a stunning and unexpected twist, made reading &quot;Darkness Falls&quot; a pleasure and well worth not having slept enough the previous night. <br />	2004-08-03
571975:US	52830980	R2UMIZW18F4BPX	0821774174	76400770	Beyond A Wicked Kiss (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	3 1/2 stars: an absorbing read	The last installment in the Compass Club adventures, &quot;Beyond a Wicked Kiss&quot; rounds things off nicely and in a satisfactory manner. A few things, perhaps, could have done with a more in-depth look, but on the whole this installment fit in very well with the previous three books in the series, and ultimately proved to be a fun read. <br />  <br /> Evan Marchman grew up knowing that he would always be an outsider looking in: the illegitimate son of the Duke of Westphal, it was drummed into Evan, early on in life, just how much he could expect and just how much society would accept him. Fortunately for Evan, there were his old school friends -- Viscount Southerton, the Marquess of Eastlyn & the Earl of Northam -- who gave him their wholehearted friendship, support and acceptance. Now, however, Evan's life takes an unexpected turn when, with the duke's death, it is revealed that Evan is legitimately born after all, and that he, and not his half-brother, is the new Duke of Westphal. For a young man who is finally comfortable with who he is and what he does for a living (Evan is a spy for the Crown), inheriting the title, lands and monies from his much despised father is the very last thing he needs. And then his new ward, Miss Maria Ashby, comes to him with a problem which she thinks only he can help her resolve. Miss Ashby is the headmistress of a ladies academy, and one of the students at the school has disappeared without a trace. The problem is an intriguing and perplexing one, but which arouses Evan's interest, especially when he discovers that the Society of Bishops are involved with Miss Ashby's academy. Could the Society of Bishops have anything to do with the missing girl? Evan is determined to discover all, but he is also determined the discover if his growing feelings for the singular and beautiful Miss Maria Ashby is a passing fancy or if it is something much, much more... <br />  <br /> The four books in this series (&quot;Let Me Be the One,&quot; &quot;Everything I Ever Wanted&quot; & &quot;All I ever Needed&quot;) are very closely interconnected. So do you need to have read the previous three in order to understand and enjoy &quot;Beyond a Wicked Kiss?&quot; On the whole, I'd say no. Jo Goodman does a rather good job of encapsulating all the pertinent information so that you don't get that awful feeling of having wandered into a play after the first act. She also does a very good job of presenting, as succinctly as possible, the close bond of trust and fellowship that the four men share. Also well done was the manner in which she &quot;fleshed&quot; out Evan's past and his growing feelings for Ria Ashby -- indeed it was the authour's delightful portrayal of Evan that kept me glued to the pages. But a few things could have done with more depth: such as the whole bit about the Society of Bishops and their ties to the academy. Because this was a rather vital subplot in this story, I would have liked more. On the whole though, &quot;Beyond a Wicked Kiss&quot; was an absorbing and enjoyable Regency-era romance novel that kept it's promise of being a good and entertaining read.	2004-07-30
572457:US	52830980	R4LR5E4H0192W	0060513659	87860638	Yours Until Dawn (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	59	64	N	N	enjoyable and satisfying	On the basis that I've rather enjoyed the last two romance novels by Teresa Medeiros, she's almost become an &quot;I-have-to-read-her-latest&quot; with me. And halfway into the first chapter, I knew that my instincts to read &quot;Yours Until Dawn&quot; at once was sound: it was a good and worthwhile read. The plot may be a much used one, but Ms Medeiros' take on this old storyline was enjoyable, satisfying and almost unique. <br />  <br /> Handsome beyond permission, charming and exceedingly rich, Gabriel Fairchild was, once, a much sought after bachelor. But that was before he was blinded and scarred in battle, and before he was abandoned by both his family and the young woman he adored. Now, the proud and bitter young man lives in darkness and seclusion at his country estate, alone (save for his servants), and taking out his anger on harmless pieces of furniture and china. But all that changes when his father hires a new nurse to help him cope with his blindness. Prim and capable Samantha Wickersham knew that she had her work cut out for her. After all it cannot be easy for a young and vital young man, used to leading an active life, to have to cope with blindness. But she hadn't counted on the amount of anger and bitterness that Gabriel would feel. Or that he had put all good manners and civilized behaviour behind him and was now leading the life of an arrogant barbarian. But if Gabriel thought that he could chase his latest nurse away with bad manners and curses, he didn't know Samantha at all. Determined to help Gabriel cope with his blindness and to show him that he can still lead a full and vital life, Samantha vows not to allow Gabriel to get the better of her. And so the battle of wills begins. Who will win? The arrogant and bitter young lord or his patient and determined nurse?  <br />  <br /> The storyline of &quot;Yours Until Dawn&quot; is actually a much used one -- a young nurse appears to help the wounded beast-hero, and in the process tames and winshis heart. And while &quot;Yours Until Dawn&quot; doesn't depart very much from this basic format, what I liked about it, aside from Ms Meideiros' clever way of engaging my interest from the very beginning and making me care for both Gabriel and Samantha and for their happily ever-after ending, was the fact that the authour took the time and effort to map out the clash of wills between Gabriel and Samantha and to chart the developing romance between the two in a credible and believable manner. That's what made &quot;Yours Until Dawn&quot; a stellar read. Magical, passionate and touching (though not in a cringingly syrupy way) , &quot;Yours Until Dawn&quot; was a very enjoyable and satisfying read, and truly worthy of a 5 star rating.	2004-07-29
577322:US	52830980	R1W9LN02K1SMFD	0786713593	870745052	Flesh and Blood: A Novel of Crime (Frank Elder Mysteries)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	haunting, chilling and compelling	Fans of John Harvey's Charlie Resnick mystery novels rejoice: Harvey's new mystery novel, featuring retired police inspector Frank Elder, is as gripping and as chilling as the Charlie Resnick books. Dare one hope that this will be the beginning of a brand new series? I devoutly hope so. <br />  <br /> When his marriage fell apart, Detective Inspector Frank Elder handed in his notice and retired to the Cornish coast. There, haunted by nightmares and his unresolved feelings about his failed marriage, Elder maintains a day to day existence, reading novels, until an ex-colleague informs him of the early release of rapist-murderer, Shane Donald. Almost 15 years ago, Elder had been instrumental in the capture and conviction of Alan McKeirnan & Shane Donald for the murder and rape of a young sixteen year old girl. The case had been especially disturbing in its brutality and violence; but what really haunted Elder was that he had been unable to get either McKeirnan or Donald to admit to having had anything to do with the disappearance of another young sixteen, Susan Blacklock. Now, with the early release of Donald, Elder finds in himself a renewed interest in trying to find Susan. Had McKeirnan and Donald been involved in Susan's disappearance? Elder had always believed that the two had met and murdered the unfortunate girl. But if so, why had they always denied any connection to her? Had the police (after all) made a fatal mistake in trying to tie Susan's disappearance to the duo? And had they missed an important piece of evidence in their rush to connect the cases? As Elder struggles to answer these questions and go over again the old clues, Donald breaks parole and leaves his halfway house, while another sixteen year old disappears. Is history is about to repeat itself? <br />  <br /> Gritty, gripping and magnificently rendered, &quot;Flesh and Blood&quot; was truly unputdownable. The novel unfolds smoothly and swiftly, with authour successfully mounting tension upon tension, and plot twist upon plot twist with each succeeding chapter. Also brilliantly done was the authour's ability to relate in stark and realistic terms the depressing, painful and hopeless lives that some of the characters led and continue to lead. Obviously what carries &quot;Flesh and Blood&quot; through though, is Harvey's sympathetic chief character, Frank Elder -- a sensitive, decent and caring man, who hasn't quite figured out how his life has ended up the way it has. Elder may belong to the often used British police detective type, but he was totally engaging and easy to relate to and root for, and I for one, am hoping that there will be more Frank Elder books. Haunting, chilling and absolutely riveting, &quot;Flesh and Blood&quot; is a mystery novel especially recommended for readers who appreciate stark police procedurals, and good writing. <br />  <br />  <br />	2004-07-25
584833:US	52830980	R2OK6UNXWM3LVJ	0425196356	789127510	Murder Plays House (Mommy-Track Mysteries)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	a fun read	Heavily pregnant Juliet Applebaum needs to find a new home for a her expanding family and fast! Not only are their current digs not going to be big enough to accommodate three children and two adults, but the people who have bought the lot next to the place they're renting have started an extensive remodeling work, and husband, Peter, a horror screen play writer (who works at the night and sleeps during the day) is getting no sleep at all and his work is suffering. Finding a nice and affordable house in LA is no easy feat; fortunately Juliet has an ace up her sleeve: her good friend Kat is a real estate agent -- albeit a heavily pregnant and quite reluctant real estate agent. Morosely, Kat agrees to go house hunting with Juliet. And when Kat shows her the magnificently restored house that Kat's cousin (Farzad) and his gay lover (fashion designer, Felix) are planning to sell, Juliet immediately falls in love with the house. Unfortunately the house also comes with the dead body of the Felix's sister, Alice. Once again Juliet finds herself in the middle of another murder investigation. But this time, solving the murder ahead of the police may actually net Juliet her dream house. Now all Juliet has to do is successfully discover who murdered Alice and why, as well juggling childcare, and making sure she doesn't give birth in the middle of her investigation...<br />If you're looking for a mystery novel that is full of snappy dialogue and that takes a humourous look at the life of a young(ish) mother in LA, you're bound to enjoy &quot;Murder Plays House.&quot; Juliet is an engaging and taking character, and her attempts to be the perfect mother and understanding spouse, while trying to juggle a career as a private detective and her own needs, were truly funny and entertaining to read. However, mystery-wise, things were a bit of a let down. For example the mystery subplot was not all that well developed, and actually unfolded in a rather uneven manner, at the expense of the &quot;mommy-track&quot; subplot. Leads and suspects pittered out very quickly, so that when Juliet finally solved the case, it felt as if luck more than deduction was key to resolving everything. Though I will admit that because of the snappy dialogue and Juliet's engaging accounting on what it was like to be an average mom amongst the LA rich, &quot;Murder Plays House&quot; turned out to be a lively read. Also well done was the commentary on the lengths that some will go to in order to remain as young looking and as thin as possible. So that while the mystery angle left a bit to be desired, the storyline and narrative style made &quot;Murder Plays House&quot; an enjoyable yet sobering read.	2004-07-18
587431:US	52830980	R1MK9QXYP6MA3Z	0373264976	742842242	Desert Wives (Wwl Mystery, 497)	Books	3	19	20	N	N	a dark and chilling novel	In this second installment in the Lena Jones mystery series, Lena is hired by her client, desperate mother Esther Corbett, to rescue her daughter, Rebecca, from the polygamist compound of Purity at the Utah-Arizona border. The rescue goes perfectly, but on the way out of Purity, Lena and Rebecca stumble over the dead body (short-gunned) of Solomon Royal, the leader of the compound. And because a few witnesses saw (Esther's almost senile father included) Esther and Solomon arguing over Rebecca's future (sixty-something Solomon was scheduled to marry thirteen year old Rebecca) hours before Solomon was found dead, Esther is the number one suspect in that homicide. Now it's up to Lena to prove her client's innocence, clear her name and prevent Rebecca from becoming a child bride. But in order to do this, savvy and independent Lena will have to go undercover as one of the compound member's new &quot;wife.&quot; Can a thoroughly modern and strong willed Lena curb her ways in order to fit in, in spite of all the horrors and injustice she will witness? Whether she likes it or not, Lena will have to bite her tongue and pretend to be a submissive wife in order to learn all the dirty little secrets that Purity has to hide so that she can find the real killer and so reunite Esther with Rebecca...<br />&quot;Desert Wives&quot; makes for compelling reading not so much for the mystery at hand, but because of Betty Webb's stark and incisive look at the dark reality of the lives of the women in the Purity polygamist compound. Where Webb describes how insular these women's lives are, and the extent to which they are controlled, exploited and manipulated, &quot;Desert Wives&quot; makes for absorbing and chilling reading. Unfortunately, where the mystery subplot is concerned, and Lena's undercover investigation into who murdered prophet Solomon Royal, there were definite shortcomings. I think that the authour spent too much time showing us how difficult it was for Lena to adjust to theconfining life in the compound, and not enough time trying to find out what was actually going on in Purity. So that towards the end of the book, when a character (who knows that Lena has gone undercover), shortly lets Lena know that she's not &quot;listening&quot; and that the clues are there for her to discover, I was in total agreement. There are plenty of suspects, and even a plot twist or two, but Lena's final realisation as to who the murderer really was, truly came out of no where for me. Perhaps I missed a crucial bit somewhere, but I rather doubt it. So, all in all, if you're of a mind to read a dark and chilling account of what life for a woman would be like in a polygamist compound, and a book that has plenty of ambiance and atmosphere and that renders up the beauty of the Utah-Arizona desert, then you're bound to want to read &quot;Desert Wives.&quot; However, if you're looking for a really compelling and intriguing mystery novel, be forewarned that mystery-wise &quot;Desert Wives&quot; falls a little short of expectations.	2004-07-16
602680:US	52830980	RV9BEF92J1YFA	0345462114	967320701	The Drowning Tree	Books	4	0	0	N	N	an absorbing read	&quot;The Drowning Tree&quot; may not be to the average mystery reader's taste because it is very introverted and a little slow-moving. However, it is a well written novel, and if you enjoy Ovid's &quot;Metamorphoses,&quot; Pre-Raphaelite painting and a nice slowish-moving (but with lots of character development) mystery novel, you're bound to enjoy &quot;The Drowning Tree.&quot;<br />While Juno McKay may still live and work in her small hometown, she's always tried to avoid attending any social functions at Penrose College, mostly because she failed to graduate (an unplanned pernancy) with her class, and because of the stunning and dramatic manner in which her young husband, Neil Buchwald, descended into madness two years into their marriage. But when her best friend, Christine Webb, uses their fifteenth class reunion as an opportunity to deliver a lecture on the Pre-Raphaelites and the Arts &amp; Crafts movement and the impact that this movement had on the college's founders, Ambrose and Eugenie Penrose, Juno girds up her courage in order to attend. The lecture turns out to be both informative and controversial as Christine hints at the true nature of the relationship that Ambrose Penrose had with his sister-in-law, Claire (who later went mad and was confined at Briarwood, the very place that, almost 80 years later, Juno's husband, Neil, was institutionalized at), as well as delivering a different interpretation of the stained-glass window that Penrose had designed (now gracing the college's library), and which Juno's small glass company is about to repair and restore. But while the lecture may have gone down well, Juno senses that Christine is not all that happy. Something is disturbing Christine, but unfortunately the two friends don't have the time to have a real heart-to-heart before Christine has to leave to go back to the city. And a week later, Juno finds Christine's body in the sunken lake on the old, ruined Penrose estate. Because of her history with depression and substance abuse, everyone assumes that Christine has killed herself. But Juno is not so sure; and when, in the course of her research about the Penrose stained-glass window, she comes across Eugenie's diary, with entries that seem to suggest that the Penroses had one particularly big skeleton in their closet, a secret that someone may be willing to kill to protect, she begins to wonder about the connection between Christine and the Penroses...<br />Sedately paced and of a literary-bent (don't worry though, Carol Goodman is very good about not talking down to her audience), &quot;The Drowning Tree&quot; was a real treat to read. The novel is told almost exclusively from Juno's point-of-view, and in Juno, Carol Goodman has created a chief protagonist that almost anyone can relate to -- a very human woman with strengths as well as weaknesses. The authour fully immerses the reader into Juno's life and with her concerns, and this gave the novel a sense of immediacy which (fortunately) downplayed the moderate pacing quite a bit. I also enjoyed all the literary references to Ovid's &quot;Metamorphoses&quot; and the vivid descriptions of the art that portrayed in these myths. But what made this book truly amazing was the manner in which the subplots involving the Penroses in the past, Christine's murder and Briarwood Institution all get entwined into one lyrical whole, thus making &quot;The Drowning Tree&quot; both a very lyrical and memorable read indeed.	2004-07-05
605604:US	52830980	RR2KWDW52F0IK	0821776517	83858191	A Handful Of Promises (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	a nice gentle romance	The republication of an earlier work, \\"A Handful of Promises\\" was a very pleasant read about second chances at love.<br />Years ago, Secundus Alcester, a poor younger son, feel in love with shy, demure but incredibly rich Lady Helen Rotherford. But while Lady Helen returned Secundus' love, her proud and autocratic father did not approve of Secundus' suit at all. Roundly refusing to allow Secundus to court his daughter, Lord Rotherford and his son led Secundus to believe that Helen was all but engaged to another, more eligible gentleman. And so, Secundus, both his pride and heart quite shattered, left England for India in order to amass a fortune and to forget Lady Helen. Now, however, an urgent letter (two years late) has arrived informing Secundus that his elder brother is dead, leaving his children orphaned and his estate quite beggared, and requesting that Secundus return home and set matters aright. Swiftly, Secundus leaves India for England; but while his primary concern is for his nephews and nieces, a part of Secundus cannot help but wonder about Lady Helen. Is she still married? And does she still remember him fondly? And how her family would react to him now that he is a very rich man indeed...<br />\\"A Handful of Promises\\" turned out to be a nice gentle romance novel and a very pleasant read indeed. There were also two other romance subplots that revolved around Secundus' older niece and nephew, but for me the plot that really mattered was the one that dealt with Secundus and Lady Helen, and it was charmingly and delicately done. I would have, perhaps, liked it more if Jeanne Savery had spent even more time on Secundus and Lady Helen, but that is just a more personal wish/desire. And on the whole, everything had just the right touch for a nice, light Regency-era romance novel -- the story, the pacing and the characters involved. And if I had any quibbles about the book, it was that everyone was just so nice! Neither Secundus nor Lady Helen ever get angry ather brother for the part he played in separating them all those years ago. I, would conked the man hard on the head and then proceeded to make him feel as small as possible for at least week. But then, (obviously) Lady Helen is a much nicer person than me. All in all, reading \\"A Handful of Promises\\" was a very nice and pleasant way indeed to spend a lazy afternoon.	2004-07-02
606557:US	52830980	R26U7MXIUKG03H	0821776193	315631032	The Duke And Mrs. Douglas (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	okish read -- not up the usual standards though	Donna Simpson is one of the few authours who can (successfully) write a novel that almost exclusively focuses on the feelings and private thoughts of her characters and still not end up with the book that is either maudlin or awkward. It takes a real talent to write such a novel where nothing much ever happens save for the characters talking to each other and ruminating about the behaviour of others and themselves. Which is why I so enjoy reading Ms Simpson's novels. But this time around, I rather felt that Ms Simpson fell short of her usual excellence.<br />Feeling gloomy and having had his fill of the back-stabbing lot that surrounds the Prince of Wales, the widowed Duke of Alban decides to leave Brighton and repair to the North in order to visit his favourite aunt. And he takes with him his best friend, Bartholomew Norton, the Earl of Orkenay (not a very close or well liked friend) and another gentleman he knows little of, Sir John Fitzhenry. It's a trip in which he will reestablish his close link with his adored aunt (an aunt he hasn't seen in almost three years, not since he arrived broken over his wife's desertion), and spend time hunting and riding with his friends. But all his plans go out the window when he arrives to find that his aunt has hired a comely young widow, Kittie Douglas, as her companion -- a ravishing and voluptuous lady moreover who makes his pulses races with longing and desire. Can the duke, who had been seriously and publicly betrayed before trust that seemingly virtuous and tenderhearted widow is exactly what she seems? Or does the comely Mrs. Douglas have some conniving plan up her sleeve?<br />Part of the problem with &quot;The Duke and Mrs. Douglas&quot; was that the duke and Mrs. Douglas spend very little time with each other in a constructive manner at all. They both spend a lot of time thinking and obsessing about each other, but when they do converse, they are, quite frequently at daggers drawn and completely misunderstanding eachother. So that when, somewhere towards the end of the book, Kittie laments to her friends about the duke's poor treatment of her esp when she had thought they were becoming friends, I wondered how she had arrived at this conclusion? When, exactly, had they become friends? Had I missed a few chapters somewhere? Kittie, actually spends more time with the cad of the group, and allows the man more liberties than a respectable widow would have (I thought), and I really wasn't too surprised that the duke got, and maintained, a certain impression of Kittie. Also, because the duke and Kittie never really establish any kind of relationship with each other (at least none that I could see aside from lusting for each other), the book does tend to stagnate a little. On the plus side, however, is Ms Simpson's wonderful character realisations of all the individuals involved in this story. She made me want to know more about Kittie's friends (Rebecca and Hannah), Mr. Norton and Sir John Fitzhenry. Truly, no one can show the many different facets of a character (major or minor) the way that Donna Simpson can. And it was the character portrayals of the minor characters that saved this book for me, because, truth to tell, I did find Kittie and the duke and the perpetual fog of misunderstanding that they seem to revel in fairly boring.	2004-07-02
608695:US	52830980	R10GUI9FFFOVJB	0373836244	24440896	Sprig Muslin	Books	5	88	91	N	N	my opinion: the best Regency-era romance novel ever written	The second Georgette Heyer romance novel I read when I first started devouring her novels a few decades ago, (the first was &quot;Black Sheep&quot;), &quot;Sprig Muslin&quot; is, to this day, my favourite Regency-era romance novel of all time. It's novel that can proudly boast of possessing everything from a nice gently paced romance subplot, to an adventure (of a small sort), with some hysterically funny scenes, and written with just the right touch of gentle humour, so that you're left with a satisfied smile (and feeling) on your face long after you've finished the book.<br />Sir Gareth Ludlow has decided to do his duty and marry. And because he's a much sought after bachelor, and a good-looking and amiable man to boot, finding a wife shouldn't be too difficult a task. But because he is still very much affected by the death, seven years ago, of his true love (the beautiful but headstrong Clarissa) Gareth has decided to marry for suitability and convenience. Not for him some young debutante who would, no doubt, expect him to shower her with affection and dance to her tune; and Gareth has decided to ask his good friend, Lady Hester Theale, to marry him. Labeled an old maid, quiet, self effacing and practical Lady Hester surely would not look to make a love matchat this stage in her life, and would, naturally, see all the advantages of making a marriage based on mutual respect and admiration. Except that along the way to propose to Hester, Gareth meets a very young lady, all alone (no chaperone or servants) who calls herself &quot;Amanda Smith.&quot; Beautiful, willful and with a highly imaginative mind, Amanda has runaway from home because she has a PLAN (you'll have to read the book to discover what this PLAN entails). Naturally Gareth cannot leave such a young girl by herself, and he decides to rescue Amanda for her own good. But little did Gareth imagine that when he set out to rescue Amanda that she would embroil him in an adventure of a lifetime, and that it would make him look at a certain lady with new eyes and with hope in his heart...<br />I had exactly the same reaction to &quot;Sprig Muslin&quot; that I had with Austen's &quot;Pride and Prejudice&quot; -- an overwhelming sense of relief and satisfaction that it had ended in exactly the way I had wanted it to. The basic plot-line is very spare, but where Heyer's genius lies is in the manner in which she quickly engages the reader's interest in the characters portrayed, making you care for them and devoutly hoping that each and every one of them gets the resolution they deserve. For myself, I've always had a soft spot for quiet, overlooked heroines, especially when most of my friends preferred heroines with more hair than wit and who exhibited a lot of resolution but practically no common sense. So that reading &quot;Sprig Muslin&quot; was like a tonic for me -- &quot;watching&quot; the gentle romance between the hero and heroine unfold quietly, esp as this contrasted superbly with each outrageous new story that Amanda would concoct and unleash -- it was just so excellently done and such fun! To this day, I've yet to come across another novel that satisfies and entertains me as much as &quot;Sprig Muslin,&quot; and I'm beginning to doubt that I ever will. If you haven't read it yet, don't hesitate: PICK THIS BOOK UP TODAY, you won't regret it.	2004-06-30
613511:US	52830980	R2F13YGYY3ZNIZ	0821774123	572094693	Lady Scandal (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	riveting adventure/second chance at love Regency	Partly an adventure novel and partly a second chance at love story, this latest Shannon Donnelly's Regency-era romance novel proved to be a totally captivating read.<br />Alexandria, Lady Sandal, knew that she should have heeded the early warning signs and quickly seen to the removal of her seventeen year old niece, Diana, her servants and herself from France before hostilities between the two countries were declared. But who would have counted on things escalating so fast, or on Napoleon ordering the arrest of all English citizens in France? Now, she must see to it that she and her niece get to the coast as quickly and as unobtrusively as possible (and from there, safely to England). And the last thing she needs is to get caught up in the affairs of ex-lover, Paxton Marsett. An ex-lover, moreover, who's wounded and being hunted by the French army and who, obviously, is still hostile and angry towards her for the way things had ended between them. Common sense tells Alexandra that her first duty is to her niece and that she should leave Paxton to his own devices. But she is relucatant to leave Paxton alone and vulnerable, and so she decides to throw her lot (as well as Diana's) with Paxton's. With the French army nipping at their heels, and facing danger and discovery at every turn, Alexandria little thought that the greatest danger she would actually face would be a resurgence of all the feelings she had had for Paxton, feelings she had thought to have buried all those years ago...<br />Swiftly paced and peopled with characters that were complex and engaging, &quot;Lady Scandal&quot; was a hard book to put down once I had started it. The pacing was excellent, and the manner in which Ms Donnelly drew out and built on suspense where the manhunt for Paxton was concerned was brilliantly done as well. Also well done was the manner in which the authour &quot;fleshed&quot; the characters in the novel, from Alexandria to her niece, Diana, to the French captain who's hunting Paxton. All these characters were nicely and interestingly developed. However, I did think that compared to the other characters in the novel, Paxton was very much the usual angry, rakish Regency-ear hero, holding onto his anger and wanting to teach Alexandria a lesson for not putting him before all others all those years ago. That, was a little disappointing. Other than that, however, &quot;Lady Scandal&quot; was a wonderfully riveting and enjoyable read; and I'm hoping that, at some point, Ms Donnelly picks up her pen to write an equally stirring romance novel that will feature Diana and the dashing French captain.	2004-06-27
614047:US	52830980	R38LTC5D62HDS	0821776568	62311139	The Wedding Caper (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	2 1/2 stars: a bit of a bland read	Could this be the last Sir Neville Hathaway &amp; Lady Priscilla Flanders mystery-romance novel? Unfortunately, I found myself devoutly hoping that it was, because six installments into the series, and it really seemed as if the authour has run out of steam where these characters are concerned. <br />Lady Priscilla Flanders should be concentrating on her upcoming marriage to Sir Neville Hathaway and on her eldest daughter's, Daphne, London debut; instead she finds herself caught up in yet another murder investigation when a close friend, Lady Harmony Lummis, is murdered in Lummis' private theatre box at the Prince of Wales Theatre. The watch and the Bow Street Runners seem overwhelmed, and both Lady Lummis' husband and son seem totally unconcerned about ensuring that the lady's murderer is apprehended. Saddened and angry about her friend's death, Lady Priscilla is determined to see justice done. But first, Lady Priscilla must discover if Lady Lummis was murdered in a robbery gone terribly wrong, or if she was murdered because of something more personal. A task that becomes slightly more complicated when it comes to light that the murdered lady was having an affair with the principal actor (Reginald Birdwell) of the Prince of Wales Theatre. Was Lady Lummis murdered out of anger and jealousy then? And could the suspects number Lord Lummis as well as the actor, Birdwell? Fortunately for Lady Priscilla, she knows that she can count on her clever fiance Sir Neville Hathaway to help see justice done...<br />I really wanted to like this book. But I kept picking it up and putting it down -- it took me an entire week to finish &quot;The Wedding Caper&quot; and that was solely because I skimmed through a lot of it! I think that the problem was a lack of focus: was this a romance novel about how much Lady Priscilla and Sir Neville were looking forward to their wedding night, or a mystery novel about the murder-robberies at the theatre? And then there was also the small subplotinvolving Daphne's London debut and the young gentleman she'd fallen in love with -- it was all almost too much and none very satisfactorily developed. The mystery subplot really needed more &quot;meat&quot; to it, and I would have liked to read more about Daphne's season. Instead, I had to contend with Sir Neville's explosions -- I found myself gritting my teeth about the third or fourth time he exclaimed, &quot;Blast it, Pris&quot; or something along those lines, and his feelings of longing for Lady Priscilla. Perhaps I had lost all feelings of romance somewhere along the way and was just feeling bilious? But whatever the reason, I found &quot;The Wedding Caper&quot; to be a well written but bland read and totally lacking focus.	2004-06-26
616580:US	52830980	R38CEK1IAEJ6P0	0312271190	753868454	The Judgment of Caesar: A Novel of Ancient Rome (Novels of Ancient Rome)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	3 1/2 stars: fascinating but not much of a mystery novel	While, like a few other readers, I was rather dismayed that the entire mystery subplot was confined to a few chapters somewhere about two-thirds through the novel, I did think that the Saylor &quot;magic&quot; was still there. The authour's ability to tell a tale and to keep me, at least, captivated from start to finish, was evident -- esp since I felt compelled to finish the novel in one sitting. <br />It's 48 B.C. and the struggle for power between Pompey and Caesar is all but over: Pompey, defeated in Pharsalus (Greece), has retreated to Alexandria (Egypt) in order to make his last stand, with Caesar in hot pursuit. But for Gordianus, this titanic clash between the two power mad generals is of little concern. Of more importance is his wife's, Bethesda, health. Quite sick, Bethesda believes that they must travel to Alexandria so that she can bathe in the healing waters of the Nile in order to be healed. Concerned, Gordianus agrees that they must make the trip in spite of the obvious danger. However, even though Gordianus had braced himself for the likelihood that he would find himself in the middle of a battle between Pompey and Caesar, he didn't expect to find himself dragged into the vicious world of Egyptian politics, or that after so bitter a parting with his son, Meto, he would find himself fighting to save Meto's life and honour...<br />I was thoroughly fascinated my Saylor's portrayal of the young boy-king Ptolemy as a young boy who was clever, sophisticated and naive; as well as Saylor's speculation on the nature of Ptolemy's relationship with Caesar. I also found the authour's vivid description of Pompey's end and his colourful depiction of the Alexandrian court (the politics and the personalities involved) captivating. So that as a historical novel, the swift recounting of these momentous events made for compelling and riveting reading. On the other hand, I did come away with a sense that everything was conveyed rather sketchily and in as straight-forward a manner as possible. I missed the suspenseful twists and turns and complexity of plot that usually characterises a Gordianus mystery novel. I also missed the wonderfully textured manner in which the authour usually &quot;fleshes&quot; out his characters (the manner in which he made such characters as Cicero and Clodia believeable and human for example), and the intricate relationships they have with each other (I personally would have liked to have seen more interchanges between Caesar, Ptolemy and Cleopatra). Because except for Ptolemy, most of the other characters were very simply drawn. Then of course there was the total lack of a mystery subplot of any real substance. This was after all the authour who had written &quot;Roman Blood&quot; and &quot;A Murder on the Appian Way&quot; amongst others, so that the sketchy poisoning attempt that implicated Meto (the son that Godianus had previously disowned in a moment of anger and disillusionment) felt really underdone and very, very unsatisfactory. <br />On the whole though, the good points about this novel -- that it was a very well written, smoothly paced and a very fascinating read -- quite outweighed the bad (the unsatisfactory mystery subplot and some sketchy yet memorable character portrayals). It was nice to catch up with Gordianus and his family, to see if Gordianus will patch things up with Meto, and to speculate about where this series was heading -- was Bethesda alive or dead? So that if you're looking for a good, swiftly paced historical novel set in ancient Egypt, you're bound to appreciate &quot;The Judgement of Caesar.&quot;	2004-06-24
619358:US	52830980	R34YN3BRBDV3T3	0451210131	439414511	A Worthy Opponent (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	a charming 3 1/2 star read	The Shelton women have fallen on hard times and money is desperately needed to fund a London Season for the younger and beautiful Miss Sarah Shelton and for the education of young Charles Shelton. And since the head of the family, a distant relative, has seen fit not to pay any attention to the needs of Judith (the eldest sister), Sarah, Charles and their aunt, Tillie, Judith Shelton has decided to catch their neighbour, the wealthy and eligible Viscount Westfall, for a husband. But the one thing she hadn't taken into consideration was the affect that the intelligent and determined Peregrine Campion, a business partner of Westfall's, would have on her plans, or how his resolve to thwart her would both exhilarate and dismay her. Nor had she counted on much Peregrine would make her question her schemes and make her wonder which gentleman it was that she was truly a match for...<br />Once again Louise Bergin has penned a novel that is a little out of the ordinary. &quot;A Worthy Opponent&quot; starts off as many Regency-era romance novels do: a young beauty determined to snare herself a rich husband through fair means or foul because of her impoverished circumstances. But then the authour's genius steps in, and the plot is tweaked away from the usual through a set of plot devices that necessitates the heroine and the (true) hero spending more time with each other and getting to know each other's character intimately. So that halfway through the novel, we and the novel's principal characters know that they are meant for each other. What follows is a swiftly paced second half of the novel where the hero, with our Judith's help, comes to terms with his painful past and puts a few ghosts to sleep. On the whole, everything was very well done: the story development and the smooth pacing -- although, aside from Judith and hero, the other characters were a little two dimensional, however since both they were the novel's focal pair, this was not too much of a detraction. However while I did like &quot;A Worthy Opponent,&quot; I did think that the novel lacked a certain cohesiveness -- it did read like a novel with two very distinct plots, that were loosely tied together via certain plot threads. Also, I did think that this book lacked the emotional depth and intensity that the authour's first novel, &quot;The Spinster and the Wastrel&quot; possessed. On the whole though, &quot;A Worthy Opponent&quot; was a nicely done romance novel that possessed a refreshingly different slant on an old plot device. A good 3 1/2 star read.	2004-06-22
625787:US	52830980	R3T3C8EENMR366	0743233476	695751496	Monday Mourning: A Novel (Reichs, Kathy)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	an absorbing read	While not quite as well executed (I thought) as &quot;Grave Secrets,&quot; &quot;Monday Mourning&quot; was, nevertheless, an absorbing read; and once the pace picked up, about a third way into the book, an absolutely riveting read.<br />Initially forensic anthropologist, Temperance Brennan, thought that the only big thing she would have to do this trip back to Montreal would be to testify at the trial of a murderer. But that was before she got involved with the grizzly finds in the basement of a pizza parlour. The skeletal remains of three young girls have been found, and the questions are: how old are these remains, and how did they end up in the cellar? The detective in charge of the investigation, Luc Claudel, believes that because the building is quite old, that the remains are probably from the early part of the twentieth century, and as such a problem for archaeologists and historians. But Tempe disagrees: instinct (plus a feeling of antipathy for Claudel and his quick rush to judgement, together with the deep belief that proper examinations on the skeletons should be carried out before any quick decisions are made) tells her that the remains are not all that old. And then she receives a mysterious 'phone call from an old woman who claims to know something about the skeletons. Unfortunately, a bad connection prevents Tempe from learning anything concrete from this mysterious caller. Was the call a prank, or did the woman really have valueable information? Frustrated by the lack of police interest, and prodded on by her visiting friend, Anne, Tempe begins to do some investigating of her own and finds herself face to face with evil that she's never quite experienced before...<br />The story was an interesting and riveting one, and I did feel compelled to finish the book in one sitting. Fortunately the prose style was smooth, if a little spartan (and if I found the lecturer-like tones whenever Tempe or another one of the forensic team was explaining some procedure a little grating, that was just me); so that in spite of the fact that I found the whole subplot involving Tempe's friend, Anne, a bit distracting (ditto the entire subplot involving Andrew Ryan), &quot;Monday Mourning&quot; was still an absorbing read. I did however find that some things were tied up a little too neatly and not very credibly for me anyway -- why the murderer moved one set of remains for example, and why Tempe, not the police, was perceived of as an important threat from the very beginning. But perhaps this last &quot;niggle&quot; has more to do with fact that I'm not all that familiar with the series, and perhaps it is a well known fact that Tempe, not the police, is a force to be reckoned with? Whatever the case, if you're looking for a somewhat swiftly paced and interesting read, than &quot;Monday Mourning&quot; will definitely do. It may not be the best Tempe Brennan book, but it is up that with the better installments in the series.	2004-06-17
628582:US	52830980	R9QJMMRCQ8ONB	0446533475	457990569	Secret Smile (French, Nicci)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	this just may the best thriller of the year	Almost as soon as she'd slept with Brendan Block, Miranda Cotton realised that their liaison was a mistake -- too many things about Brendan annoyed and irritated her, and he had started to push their relationship along far too quickly. And then she catches him reading her old diary. For Miranda, that's just the last straw and she quickly (and irrevocably) ends things with Brendan. And when, a few weeks later, her elder sister, Kerri, breaks the news that she and Brendan have begun dating seriously, Miranda doesn't know what to think. What is Brendan up too and why is he dating Kerri? Miranda's parents like Brendan, and are over the moon with happiness that their elder and less confident daughter is in a serious relationship with so nice a young man. But Miranda has her reservations. And when Brendan begins to harass her insidiously, Miranda knows that Brendan is up to no good. The thing is that no one believes her because Brendan has told everyone that it was he who ended their relationship, and has led everyone to believe that Miranda is still feeling depressed, fragile and bitter about their falling-out. Slowly, Brendan begins to drive a wedge between Miranda and everyone she's close to; and while Miranda may have believed that she'd just have to cope with the situation, everything changes when tragedy strikes. For now Miranda understands that she's the only one who can stop Brendan before he harms anyone else...<br />It's true: nobody can write the urban thriller quite like Nicci French. Dark and spine tinglingly chilling, the basic plot premises are always deceptively simple; and if you're a fan, you can almost guess when things are going to explode violently, and where the plot twists may be -- and yet, prepared as I was for what would happen, I was still taken unawares by the tragedy and how Miranda's problem was resolved. Cleverly plotted, Nicci French does an excellent job of fleshing out the story, the characters involved and the level of tension. Swiftly paced and incredibly suspenseful, my one advice, aside from &quot;READ THIS BOOK ESP IF YOU'RE A FAN OF BRITISH THRILLERS&quot; is that &quot;Secret Smile&quot; should not be started if you're not planning to finish the book in one sitting. Because, believe you me, you'll not be able to put this book down once you've started it.	2004-06-15
633210:US	52830980	R35MM6JKI8NX3D	0345440099	317953961	The Shifting Tide	Books	5	33	35	N	N	compelling and memorable	Gather your cats/dogs/children and spouse/significant other, and firmly let them know that for the next 3 to 5 hours, YOU ARE NOT TO BE DISTURBED. And then, unplug the 'phone, pour yourself a thimble full of good port, make for your comfy chair and make your comfortable. For Anne Perry has written another gem that you simply cannot miss!! True, where the mystery subplot is concerned, things may be a little lacking; however if you look at the novel as an examination of human nature, at the unexpected strengths and hidden frailities of the characters involved, &quot;The Shifting Tide&quot; then becomes the compelling must read novel that it rightly is, whether or not you are a mystery buff.<br />William Monk has been hired by shipping magnate Clement Louvain to recover a shipment of ivory tusks stolen from his schooner, the Maude Idris. Normally, Monk would stay away from a case in which he is at such a disadvantage (Monk may know the streets of London very well, but he knows next to nothing about the river, the docks or the wharfs), but money is low and the need dire, so that in spite of his reservations, Monk agrees to take on the case. Louvain wants the stolen shipment found quickly and without the involvement of the River Police -- an especially tricky combination when murder is thrown into the mix, for the thieves had bashed in the head of one of the sailors keeping watch aboard the Maude Idris. Even stranger, Louvain is not at all interested in seeing that the murderer is apprehended and goes so far as to forbid Monk from wasting his time going down that road. Now why would he do this? Surely the murderer was one of the thieves? Monk senses that Louvain is keeping a great many things from him. A suspicion that grows when he learns that Louvain has taken a desperately ill woman (whom he claims is a friend's ex-mistress) to Hester's free clinic. But what neither Monk nor Hester anticipated was the nightmare that would soon unfold, and that would threaten their lives and happiness...<br />Mystery-wise, &quot;The Shifting Tide&quot; while intorguing was a little touch and go -- not too many cunning plot twists or sinister red herring culprits for Monk to track down. Even the usually tense courtroom scenes where Sir Oliver Rathbone is centerstage is absent; this time a healthy chunk of the novel is devoted to what Hester and her helpers go through as they battle illness, fatigue and their own inner demons. And yet what a suspenseful read &quot;The Shifting Tide&quot; was! The sense of time ticking away and of lives hanging in the balance was always there; and that together with the colourful and vivid characters that the authour created made this a very compelling read indeed. But most of all it was her portrayals of the unexpected inner strengths and nobility that the unlikeliest of characters exhibited, and her portrayal of human frailities, that made &quot;The Shifing Tide&quot; a memorable and worthwhile read.	2004-06-11
634912:US	52830980	R28NCBZKO2B5Y5	0743256182	297364336	Some Danger Involved: A Novel	Books	3	15	18	N	N	an intriguing read	&quot;Some Danger Involved&quot; is the first in a brand new series set in Victorian England, and features a duo of private enquiry agents (modeled along the lines of Holmes and Watson) as detective heroes. But the question is, is it a book and series a worth while read? Well, although I had a few reservations about &quot;Some Danger Involved,&quot; I'm going to vote that this is a book/series worth taking note of.<br />Thomas Llewelyn has his back to the wall: recently released from prison, with practically no job prospects or money, he is starving, and unless his luck changes soon, he's resolved to take the plunge off a nearby bridge. So that when he sees an advertisement for a private enquiry agent's assistant in the newspaper, he decides to try his luck one last time. And against all odds, and his wildest expectations, Thomas gets the job, as assistant and secretary to Cyrus Barker, a well known detective, and an uniquely eccentric and frighteningly intelligent individual, with a mysterious past. Almost as soon as he's hired, Barker is hired by the patriarch of the Jewish population, Sir Moses Montefiore, to investigate the brutal murder of a brilliant young scholar, Louis Pokrzywa. Was Pokrzywa's murder a hate crime, or was he murdered for more personal reasons? Barker and Llewelyn crisscross all over London questioning several anti-Semitic groups, criminal personalities and Pokrzywa's friends and peers in search of answers, all the time deeply aware that the feelings of resentment towards the Jews are being fanned and that time may be running out for them to find Pokrzywa's murderer(s) before another murder takes place...<br />It is irrefutable that Will Thomas is very knowledgeable about Victorian England and knows how to spin an intriguing yarn; and while the series and characters will bring Doyle's Holmes &amp; Watson to mind, I found myself unwittingly comparing &quot;Some Danger Involved&quot; to Anne Perry's &quot;Farrier's Lane&quot; and found that whatI really missed  in &quot;Some Danger Involved&quot; was the level of human pathos that Ms Perry seems to be able to imbue her books with, and the characters she creates that exhibit human frailties and sensitivity. Will Thomas' novel was crisp and well written, but even though the pacing was swift, I got the sense that the plot was unfolding in circles; and the murder victim, frustratingly, remained a nonetity for far too long. And like the previous reviewer, I found the sudden resolution of the mystery to be highly anti-climatic. However, I did find myself enjoying the book, esp the close working relationship that's developing between Barker and Llewelyn. so, to answer my previous question: is it a good read? In spite of my nitpicking, I'd say &quot;yes.&quot;	2004-06-10
641556:US	52830980	R6NLV75O5A43K	0425196100	265013625	Murder on Marble Row (Gaslight Mystery)	Books	5	34	36	N	N	a 5 star installment	The least dark of Victoria Thompson's Gaslight Mystery novels to date, &quot;Murder on Marble Row&quot; nevertheless still was a compelling and absorbing read.<br />Detective Sergeant Frank Malloy of the New York Police is in a bind. Police Commissioner Teddy Roosevelt has hand-picked him to investigate the murder of wealthy businessman Gregory Van Dyke (Gregory was blown up when a bomb went off in his office); the Commissioner strongly suspects that anarchists are behind the murder, but Van Dyke was also a businessman who had his share of enemies and angry rivals, and the guilty party could lie within that group. And so Malloy, once again, ventures into the world of the rich and the powerful in New York City, thinking that this time, he won't have the able assistance of midwife, Sarah Brandt, because he has resolved to have as little to do with Sarah as possible because of the strong feelings he has for her. Except that the very first person he meets at the Van Dyke house turns out to be Sarah! Sarah, the daughter of the rich and socially prominent Deckers, grew up with the Van Dyke children, and knows that family intimately; and she's determined to help Malloy whether he likes it or not. Almost at once Sarah and Malloy clash when it comes to light that the eldest Van Dyke son, Creighton, has joined the anarchist party. Malloy thinks that Creighton had a hand in his father's  death, but Sarah is equally sure that Creighton is innocent, and she manages to persuade Malloy to dig deeper. Together, Malloy and Sarah uncover every secret and scandal that the Van Dyke family have, and come face to face with a very devious and ruthless mind...<br />Unlike the previous Gaslight mysteries by Victoria Thompson, &quot;Murder on Marble Row, doesn't delve very much into the seedier aspects of New York City during the Victorian period. This installment dwells more on doings of the upper classes, and the Van Dyke family in particular. However, the book was still an engrossing andriveting read, with quite a few plot twists and turns, and enough red herring suspects to keep things humming. Furthermore, I was rather pleased that Sarah's parents were better fleshed out, and that there are hints that the mystery of Sarah's husband's murder will be cleared up soon. All in all, a very good and satisfying 5 star read.	2004-06-05
643886:US	52830980	R20EJ2UVSMT5XG	0765303043	685413312	Time's Fool: A Mystery of Shakespeare	Books	5	8	10	N	N	a thoroughly enjoyable read	About 15 years ago, I stumbled onto Leonard Tourney's Matthew and Joan Stock Elizabethan mysteries, and what a find they proved to be! Well written, with a good sense of the period, intriguing and utterly absorbing, I devoured each and every installment in this series in a matter of weeks -- and was really saddened when I discovered that there were no more Matthew and Joan Stock mysteries to enjoy. Now, after an absence of quite a few years, Leonard Tourney has written another historical mystery novel, this time one set in the early Jacobean period and during the early years of James I's reign, and featuring a much older William Shakespeare as protagonist.<br />Much older and now quite famous, William Shakespeare has reached the pinnacle of his profession. And yet a sense of melancholy seems to dog Shakespeare -- perhaps it has to do with the death of his only son, or the loss of old friends? So that when he receives a letter from an old lover (his dark lady) asking him to come to her, Shakespeare feels compelled to go, in spite of the fact that he and his ex-lover had parted on angry and bitter terms. After so many years of separation, Shakespeare is moved to see how low she has fallen and how ill she has become; but his pity for her soon turns to anger when he realises that she wants to blackmail him about his past indiscretions. In the middle of telling her to publish and be damned, a fire breaks out; Shakespeare manages to escape uninjured, but his ex-lover is not so lucky, and falls to her death. A startling realisation that the fire was deliberately set gives Shakespeare little time for grief, for it now dawns upon him that he may be the target of someone's anger or malice. Frightened, angry and confused, Shakespeare tries to figure out who may be behind all this. The stakes are high, and his unknown enemy ruthless. Will Shakespeare discover who is orchestrating his downfall, or will his impeccable enemy succeed in destroying England's most famous playwright?<br />&quot;Time's Fool&quot; was a very absorbing read. The pacing was swift and continuous, and the ambiance was just right -- you really got the sense that you were in the middle of Jacobean England, walking the London streets and the country byways with Shakespeare. And the plot was a very intriguing, puzzling and suspenseful one -- I simply couldn't put the book down until I reached the last page. And while some plot developments were no surprises, other were real revelation. I think that most mystery lovers and Shakespeare fans will enjoy this book in spite of the fact that the Shakespeare in this novel is one that few will be familiar with -- quite flawed, quick to justify his actions and slow to accept his mistakes and faults. The fact is, however, that this is a very well written and executed novel, full of colour and ambiance and very compelling. All in all a thoroughly good read.	2004-06-03
647337:US	52830980	R1CKEH4XPQPN51	0312328559	737455354	Murder on Nob Hill	Books	5	12	13	N	N	a good first installment in a brand new series	The first installment in a new series featuring the intrepid lawyer, Sarah Woolson, &quot;Murder on Nob Hill&quot; was a very satisfying and engrossing read. I enjoyed the book on every novel -- the mystery was a good and intriguing one, the detective-heroine, Sarah Woolson, was engaging and likable, and the pacing and the manner in which the novel was crafted was superbly done. All in all, the Sarah Woolson mystery series has all the hallmarks of being a really good one, and I for one, am rather excited about this.<br />Sarah Woolson, the youngest child and only daughter of a respected judge, has always wanted to practice law (like her father); but even though she's qualified, getting a respected law firm to hire her is another matter altogether because its 1880 in San Francisco, where the common wisdom is that a woman's place is at home and not in the work place. But with the help of her brother, Sarah is able to finagle an interview at Shepherd, Shepherd, McNaughton and Hall (one of the stuffier law firms); where through sheer highhandedness (Sarah actually &quot;steals&quot; a very valueable client, the newly widowed Mrs. Annjennet Hannaford whose much older husband was recently murdered in a rather brutal manner, from right under Shepherd's nose) she's able to land a job as a junior associate at the firm. One would think that things would finally be looking up for Sarah, except that her client, Annjennet Hannaford, ends up getting arrested for her husband's murder! The police and district attorney think that they have an ironclad case (motive and opportunity); and the lawyers handling Annjennet's criminal defence have all but conceded defeat, going so far as to prepare a defense based on an insanity plea. But Sarah is sure that Annjennet is innocent, and fearing that she's the only one in Annjennet's corner, is bound and determined to discover who the real murderer is, no matter the danger...<br />Obviously I shouldn't start books just before my planned bedtimebecause &quot;Murder on Nob Hill&quot; was so engrossing a read that I just had to keep on reading until I reached the last page. The plot was a very intriguing one and Shirley Tallman did a good job of ensuring that the book unfolded swiftly and smoothly. And while it is true that the prose is a bit verbose, once I got into the flow of things, this truly was something I hardly noticed after a while. I thought that the character portrayals were very good, esp that of our plain-speaking and forceful heroine, and this, together with the historical ambiance went a long way towards making this a very enjoyable and successful novel. My favourite bits, however, were the ones in which a very calm and rational sounding Sarah would (successfully) counter the somewhat hysterical and irrational arguements of her male counterparts would claim that she didn't have it in her to be a good lawyer. All in all, a fantastic first installment in what promises to be a wonderful mystery series.	2004-06-01
648922:US	52830980	R2JZ9I2R1PR8M5	031231194X	204732521	Staying Power (British Cop Kate Power, 2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	good read all-around	When Detective Sergeant Kate Power takes the call to investigate a man found hanging from a canal bridge, she's shocked to discover that she recognises the dead man as the helpful and talkative person, Alan Grafton, who had been seated next to her on the flight back from Florence. And although the autopsy strongly indicates that Grafton had committed suicide, Kate has her doubts. For even though she had been battling a cold and a congested ear, she's sure that Grafton, from the bits of conversation she could hear and remember, was the last person to take his own life. And so, with her boss's blessing, Kate starts doing a little digging, little realising the extent of human cruelty and frailty that she would unearth...<br />&quot;Staying Power&quot; was a good read in spite of the fact that 1) it took a while to pick up and 2) I spent quite a bit of time trying to piece together what had happened in the earlier installment, &quot;Power on Her Own.&quot; For other readers who, like me, haven't read &quot;Power on Her Own,&quot; Kate Power asked for a transfer from the Met (London) to Birmingham CID following the death of her lover and partner, a married policeman. And while she's proved that she's worthy of being on the fast track to promotion (&quot;Power on Her Own&quot;), Kate still has to battle a few of her colleagues' misogynistic attitudes. (Kate also got a little too addicted to drink during her period of mourning and still has to watch her alcohol intake). But to get back to &quot;Staying Power,&quot; the novel was a very absorbing and engrossing one, even if it did take a while to unfold. However, Judith Cutler's flawless execution and wonderful prose style made the book such a compelling one that I felt that I had to read every single word. Fortunately, the pace picked up about a third into the novel. The story was a good one and not very gory, and Kate Power was such an engaging, compassionate and intelligent character, that I quite understood why quite afew of the men in the book seemed to develop instant crushes on her. And if I couldn't quite figure out Kate's relationship with her boss, DCI Graham Harvey, I'm sure future installments in this excellent series will spell things out adequately. All in all, a truly worthwhile read.	2004-05-30
651494:US	52830980	R3GN6VX1K06AGO	0749006536	406704224	River Deep (A & B Crime)	Books	2	6	6	N	N	intriguing plot marred by bad pacing...	In the middle of making sure that all the inhabitants of River Terrace in the historic town of Shrewsbury have evacuated (the River Severn has burst its banks), the police make the startling discovery of a body in one of the houses. The house that the body was found in had been rented by James Humphreys, and the police, naturally, assume that the body is that of Humphreys; except that when Humphreys' wife turns up, she categorically denies that the body is that of her husband's. So if the body isn't James Humphreys', what was the dead man doing in the house that Humphreys rented? And why was he wearing Humphreys' clothes? And when the autopsy shows that the dead man was murdered in the house (the cellar actually), and then left there, Coroner Martha Gunn discovers the this particular case has captured her interest in a way that few others have. And she cannot help but want to be part of the investigation. And so, even though she shouldn't, Martha finds herself taking a hand in the investigation...<br />I had high expectations of &quot;River Deep,&quot; unfortunately, my hopes were not met. The plot was a very intriguing one, unfortunately the pacing was really off -- the flow was uneven and the story unfolded in fits and starts. And there was a scarcity of clues and suspects (red herrings or otherwise) -- this really frustrated me! Also halfway through the book, the novel's heroine, Martha Gunn, seems to have figured out what was going on before the police. Now how she was able to do this really stumped me -- perhaps I'm not as intelligent as I think I am! -- but I began to feel really sympathetic towards the blundering in the dark police officers. The other thing that frustrated me was that the authour had tagged on a small stalking subplot to the novel. This was NOT resolved at all, and Martha, the victim of this stalking simply shrugs it off!! I must be the only person to have found this development baffling and disturbing since neither the authour nor her editors were too worried about this. Ultimately however it was the poor and uneven pacing together with the scarcity of clues and suspects that made this a 2 star read for me.	2004-05-28
651680:US	52830980	R199V7EMCFLNUP	0821776525	200025057	My Lady Housekeeper (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	both heroines make this a good read	Reading &quot;My Lady Housekeeper&quot; really hammered home just how much indiviual tastes and inclinations shape one's enjoyment of a book. Having read some rather lukewarm reactions that others had had for Jeanne Savery's latest offering, &quot;My Lady Housekeeper,&quot; I really wasn't expecting much. But then I found myself stuck with two days off and nothing new to read except &quot;My Lady Housekeeper.&quot; So I thought that I'd give it a go; and I glad I did because the book turned out to be a surprisingly absorbing read. <br />Lady Sarah Staunton is livid when discovers that even in death her father is trying to run her life: in order to inherit what is her due and to carry on living in a manner that she has become accustomed to, her father has decreed that Lady Sarah must marry within a year of his death, or else she will have to make do with a pittance of an allowance. But if her father thought that he could dictate terms to her from his grave, he never truly knew his daughter. Determined to marry only for love, Lady Sarah instructs her solicitor to find a way to break her father's will, and takes off for an old estate that her father had used as a hunting box, Hedgerow Cottage, where she's decided to live in seclusion until her inheritance is freed up. All is going according to plan unti,l that is, she learns that her solicitor (who has no knowledge that she's putting up at the estate) has rented Hedgerow Cottage to the new Earl of Sherringham. Rashly, Lady Sarah decides to masquerade as the estate's housekeeper, taking on the name of Emily Walker, instead of leaving the estate. And exactly how foolish her actions are are quickly hammered home when she meets the earl and discovers that he is actually someone she had lost her heart to many years ago. Will the earl discover that her housekeeper and the missing heiress are one and the same person? Equally worrying for Lady Sarah is just how different the &quot;real&quot; Sherringham is from her idealised version. Which version does she truly prefer? Especially considering that &quot;this&quot; Sherringham seems to have thought nothing of inviting the notorious Mrs. Green with him to the hunting cottage. Little does Lady Sarah know however that the true danger may not come from being discovered by Sherringham but from a very sinister individual who has plans of his won for the new earl...<br />What I loved about &quot;My Lady Housekeeper&quot; was that it belonged to both Lady Sarah and Julie Green. The men (like Sherringham) were vital to plot developments and the romance-angle of course, but the story really belonged to the two women. Lady Sarah and Julie Green were engaging, complex and intelligent women with both admirable traits and flaws. And it made for a much &quot;deeper&quot; read to see who both women wrestled mentally with their feelings of jealously and frustration. I also enjoyed the friendship that developed between these two women and was happy that like Lady Sarah, Julie was given a happily ever-after ending. Some readers may get a bit impatient with Lady Sarah because it does take her forever to sort out her feelings for Sherringham, but this is truly a minor quibble. And truth to tell, this allowed for one to appreciate just how much Lady Sarah's character changed over the course of events. Set with a good pace and possessing some really excellent character portrayals, &quot;My Lady Housekeeper&quot; was a good 4 star read from start to finish.	2004-05-28
657006:US	52830980	R320E137Y65UIU	0373836112	568666406	Bath Tangle	Books	5	24	25	N	N	worth reading	Lady Serena Carlow is beside herself with anger when she discovers that her late father (the Earl of Spenborough) has placed her squarely under the Marquess of Rotherham's thumb. For the late earl has made Rotherham the sole trustee of his only daughter's wealth, and Lady Serena will have to gain Rotherham's approval for everything from frivolous purchases to permission to marry. For most young women of sense, such a will would be trying, but for the passionate and fiery tempered Lady Serena, the state of affairs is truly intolerable, esp since she and Rotherham were once engaged to be married before she broke off the engagement in a fit of anger. Soon, however, even the indignity of having to cope with Rotherham as a guardian is nothing compared to having to watch her cousin assume her dead father's place. Hoping to seek some relief from the fit of doldrums that she's sunk into, Lady Serena proposes that she and her young stepmother, Fanny, go to Bath. Hopefully a change of scene and new friends and divertments will restore both their flagging spirits. What neither lady counted on was how the reappearance of one lady's old beau would so entangle things...<br />Truth to tell, &quot;Bath Tangle&quot; may not be everyone's cup of tea. Lady Serena's quick and fiery temper and her high-handed ways could really set one's back up -- and Rotherham is no different! Certainly, Lady Serena is the type of heroine I usually have very little empathy for -- all that emotion and high drama! And yet, who else but Georgette Heyer could pen a romance novel about a high-handed and stubborn heroine and her equally autocratic swain, and still make us care and root for them to achieve their happily ever-after ending? And as usual, one can count on Heyer's wonderful prose style, together with her brilliant character portrayals, witty dialogue, vivid imagery and smooth pacing to be sure of a memorable and worthwhile read. All in all, a novel not to be missed!	2004-05-24
659097:US	52830980	RIEXGQH4ZBSNG	0451210050	455316000	Saving Lord Verwood (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	the delightfully charming read	The third installment in a trilogy (&quot;The Incorrigible Lady Catherine&quot; &amp; &quot;The Redwyck Charm&quot; were the other two) that revolves around the romantic ups and downs of three school friends, &quot;Saving Lord Verwood focuses on the relationship that develop and blossoms between the last unmarried friend, Miss Penelope Talcott, and the charming rogue who (had previously) figured into both her good friends escapades (and not in a good way), Lord Verwood. And of the three, &quot;Saving Lord Verwood&quot; was definitely the best and my favourite.<br />Against her will, Miss Penelope Talcott has been taken to Brighton by her uncle and aunt, in order to contract an advantageous marriage. Penelope would much rather marry the curate of her village and lead a life similar to her dead parents', doing good and caring for her family. Her uncle and aunt however, improvident spendthrifts both, want Penelope to marry a rich gentleman and thus repair the family's fortunes. But all her relatives' plans and hopes come to naught when, by chance, Penelope finds herself in the middle Lord Verwood's affairs and scandal. Now the only way to save her reputation is if she marries him. But does the virtuous and demure Penelope desire to be married to the rakish Lord Verwood? True he is sinfully handsome and charming. Can she trust her life to such a scandal ridden gentleman? And what of his past relationship with her friends? <br />In my opinion, &quot;Saving Lord Verwood&quot; was a much better written novel than &quot;The Incorrigible Lady Catherine&quot; &amp; &quot;The Redwyck Charm&quot; -- the story was a better one and the hero and heroine were more appealing and engaging. I've never had particularly strong feelings about the redeemed rake motif -- neither heartily liking nor disliking this plot device. But I must say that I liked the manner in which Elena Greene saved/redeemed Lord Verwood -- I liked that Lord Verwood had changed quite a bit before he got entangledwith Penelope, and I liked how the authour showed us that Penelope would help in &quot;saving&quot; Lord Verwood further and ensure that all these changes were permanent ones. So, if you're looking for a nice romance novel about a young lady with plenty of love and affection to give and a lord who needs all the love and approval he can get, that has a small suspense plot tagged onto it, &quot;Saving Lord Verwood&quot; is bound to satisfy. An engaging read, and a keeper.	2004-05-22
659758:US	52830980	R36JYN3KUBJKHS	1569473684	473005339	Birds of a Feather (Maisie Dobbs Mysteries)	Books	5	100	104	N	N	suspenseful and intriguing: a very good read	&quot;Birds of a Feather&quot; is Jacqueline Winspear's second Maisie Dobbs mystery novel, and it actually is a much more suspenseful and intriguing installment than the first book in the series, &quot;Maisie Dobbs.&quot;<br />Maisie Dobbs, psychologist and private investigator, has been hired by mister moneybags himself, Joseph Waite, to find his missing daughter. Apparently the wealthy and successful magnate's only daughter, Charlotte, seems to have made a habit of running off whenever she feels unhappy or ill-used. Not wanting to involve the police and hoping to circumvent the press, Waite has decided to hire Maisie because he has been suitable impressed by her accomplishments. Almost at once, Maisie senses that Waite has little patience or understanding for Charlotte. And a brief inquiry amongst the household staff elicits the knowledge that while everyone likes Joseph Waite, practically no one seems to have liked Charlotte, deeming her too cold and difficult to please. And yet Maisie (who has strong emphatic powers) senses the almost crippling despair that Charlotte felt in her home. Why would a rich and pampered young lady of leisure feel such a level of despair? And what made her run away? Hoping to get some answers from a close friend of Charlotte's, Maisie stumbles into a murder investigation instead when the friend is brutally murdered. Could Charlotte's disappearance have anything to do with the murder? Is Charlotte in danger, or is the truth something much more sinister? As Maisie digs in to find the answers, she finds herself once again delving into the past and into the painful memories of the recent world war...<br />First a word of warning: don't read all the plot info available about this novel because (again) far too much of the plot is revealed in many of these professional endorsements. But to get back to my review, &quot;Bird of a Feather&quot; was a truly absorbing read -- once I started it, I found it difficult to put down. Everything was justso well done: the character portrayals, the haunting manner in which she allows us to see that everyone is still haunted by the past war, and the vivid descriptions of London and the countryside -- all this together with the fact that the book is well written, well executed and smoothly paced made &quot;Birds of a Feather&quot; an absolute treat to read. After reading &quot;Maisie Dobbs,&quot; I had wondered at how successful Ms Winspear would be able to keep the reader guessing since one of Maisie's talents was empathy. I worried needlessly: this authour knows what she's doing. And I was kept happily engrossed until the last page. All in all, a very good read.	2004-05-21
666304:US	52830980	RBKBBE5QPPU0R	0399151745	273244523	The Paid Companion (Quick, Amanda)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	5 stars: a wonderful read	&quot;The Paid Companion&quot; heralds the return of Amanda Quick's original style of romance novels -- the ones with the intriguing plots that were threaded with high levels of simmering sexual tension and lively banter between the plucky and more imaginative heroine and the silent, stoic, and more logically minded hero. And this time around, the hero has matured a little! For in creating the Earl of St. Merryn (Arthur), Amanda Quick has also provided us with a logically minded hero who also possesses a healthy sense of humour to go with all that suppressed sexuality, and a hero who is able to admit that he may need the heroine's help and who actually listens!<br />In order to catch a murderer, the Earl of St. Merryn has to move about in society at the height of the Season. And in order to avoid being hunted by matchmaking mamas and their equally predatory daughters, St. Merryn has decided to hire a paid companion -- an impoverished lady who must work for a living -- to pretend to be his fiance. And when, at the employement agency of Goodhew &amp; Willis, he spies the vibrant, intelligent and competent Miss Elenora Lodge, he knows that he has met exactly the kind of lady he needs for his scheme. Reduced to working for a living when her stepfather lost her family estate in a failed venture, and her fiance backed out of their engagement, Elenora has always longed for adventure. And it looks as if she's finally going to have her adventure after all. The one thing she hadn't factored in, however, was the attraction she'd feel for her employer and his feelings for her. But to dream of anything more than an affair with the rich and powerful Earl of St. Merryn would be pure foolishness -- or wouldn't it?<br />I thoroughly enjoyed &quot;The Paid Companion&quot; and not because of the murder subplot -- to tell the truth I got rather annoyed with this subplot as it kept getting in the way of my enjoying the clever and lively banter between Elenora and St. Merryn. Some readers may get annoyed that Elenora trusts St. Merryn so completely; and truth to tell if he had been any other hero, I might have been too. But because St. Merryn repays the favour by also trusting Elenora completely, even going so far as to ask her for advice and to act on it, it made &quot;The Paid Companion&quot; an all the more romantic read (for me anyway). The novel developed smoothly and briskly, and with plenty of simmering and sensual exchanges to keep every romance reader happy. And if other characters were not so well developed, this really wasn't a detraction since &quot;The Paid Companion&quot; was Elenora's and St. Merryn's story, and what a story it was too.	2004-05-16
666325:US	52830980	R3K1FCQ01TIOB6	0312986211	865340851	Tempting the Heiress	Books	3	2	4	N	N	a good read	After an absence of two years, Brock Bedegrayne has returned to England and has, once again, insinuated himself into Amara Claeg's life and affairs. This time, however, Brock seems intent on courting Amara. But while Amara has always been in love with Brock for as long as she can remember, there is, unfortunately too much animosity between the two families -- esp on the Claegs' side. For Amara's parents hold the Bedegraynes responsible for the death of their son, Doran; and Brock, in particular, for the death of Amara's first fiance, the wealthy Lord Cornley. At present, Amara's father is pressuring her to marry Matteo Taldo, the Conte Prola. Will Brock's ardent and forceful courtship sway a very reserved and filially obedient Amara to follow her heart? Or will Amara be forced into another unwanted engagement -- one that may actually result in an undesired marriage?<br />To begin with, don't read the plot synopsis at the back of the book: it's inaccurate and gives far too much of the plot away. I've always wondered why the people in publishing think anyone would want to read a book when such care has been taken to spell out nearly every plot development in the synopsis! But to get back the &quot;Tempting the Heiress,&quot; while I do enjoy Barbara Pierce's Bedegrayne series, honesty compels me to admit that this installment (one that I have been eagerly looking forward to for months) was not really the best installment in the series. The authour tries to walk a fine line between trying to keep things fresh for readers who would be quite familiar with the story so far, and filling readers who have not yet read &quot;A Lady's Mischief&quot; &amp; &quot;A Gentleman at Heart&quot; with what has happened so far without giving too much away. As a result the book did not always flow very smoothly and tended to get bogged down after a while. Fortunately, in creating Amara and Brock, the authour provided us with a hero and heroine that were easy to care and root for. And ifthe novel had been all about Brock's struggle to win Amara's hand in marriage, the novel would have worked a little better. But because there was also a small intrigue subplot that was not truly realized until the last third of the novel, the uneven air of menace that threaded its way through the book was at times a little frustrating. However, &quot;Tempting the Heiress&quot; did prove to be an extremely well written and sensuous romance novel, so that on the whole I'd vote this a worthwhile read.	2004-05-16
669747:US	52830980	RHAHY7C24WSF7	045121031X	438419721	Pick Your Poison (Yellow Rose Mysteries)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	an engaging and enjoyable read	The first book in a new series, and the authour's debut novel, &quot;Pick Your Poison&quot; was an enjoyable read on several levels: it's smooth and colourful narrative style, the intriguing storyline and the series' taking and engaging heroine, Abby Rose.<br />Still recovering fromt he death of her father, Abby Rose has spent the last few months vegetating next to the pool. But she's soon shaken out of her state of listlessness when she discovers her gardener, Ben Garrison, dead in the greenhouse. The police claim that Ben was murdered, and that he was actually Ben Grayson, a man suspected of having murdered his first wife, Clovis, for insurance money. To begin with Abby cannot believe that the gentle gardener she knew was a murderer, and then there is the primary detective's attitude that is really beginning to tick her off. And so Abby decides to do a spot of investigating herself, and finds herself involved in a twenty-something year old murder case that may involve secrets about her past and her beloved father's... <br />If you're able to buy that Abby has the kind of personality that makes perfect strangers take to her and confide in her, then reading &quot;Pick Your Poison&quot; will be a fun read. The smooth and colourful narrative style also helps make reading the novel an enjoyable one as well. But I did think that the book could have done with a few more plot twists, and more in depth character development -- esp where Abby's twin sister, Kate was concerned. Otherwise, &quot;Pick Your Poison&quot; turned out to be a charming and enjoyable read.	2004-05-13
670273:US	52830980	R3MSWNX0CVQCNT	0425196127	331950599	A Regimental Murder (Mystery of Regency England)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	a superb mystery novel	Captain Gabriel Lacey, the tortured hero from &quot;The Hanover Square Affair&quot; is back again (thank goodness) in a new and dark adventure involving murder and a dead man's lost honour. <br />Unable to sleep one night, Captain Gabriel Lacey decides to go for a walk where he finds himself gallantly stepping in to rescue a lady when she's attacked by a beggar. Something about this remote and despairing beauty touches Captain Lacey, and when she finally begs his help, Lacey is only all too willing to give it. The lady turns out to be Mrs. Lydia Westin, the widow of Colonel Westin, who has been accused of murdering Captain Algernon Spenser during the rioting at Badajoz in Spain in 1812. Four years later, Colonel Westin readily confesses to the crime. But his wife doesn't believe that he did commit the murder. And when her husband is murdered in his bed (a murder that she has, for reasons of her own, covered up), Lydia Westin is sure that the real murderer had decided to tie up loose ends by killing her husband before he could change his mind and disclose what actually happened. Lydia want Lacey to discover who really murdered Captain Spenser and so to effectively clear his husband's name. And even as Lacey agrees to do all he can to help her, he cannot help but wonder what it is that Lydia is hiding from him. For it is rather apparent that there are quite a few things about this mess that she's left out in her accounting. Like why Colonel Westin would confess to a crime that he had not committed -- Lydia's reasoning for this is flimsy at best; and how the murderer was able to get into the Westins' town house in order to murder Westin. But intrigued by this puzzle and chivalrously inclined to help Lydia, Lacey once again dons his best suit and puts on his best manners in order to move amongst London's elite so that he can unmask a ruthless killer. His path will not be easy, especially when he suddenly finds himself crossing swords again with one of the underworld's more notorious and dangerous of villains...<br />In creating the Captain Gabriel Lacey mystery series, Ashley Gardner truly struck gold. Both installments in the series so far (&quot;The Hanover Square Affair&quot; &amp; &quot;A Regimental Murder&quot;) have proven to be clever, intriguing and compelling. The authour does a fantastic job of adding an atmosphere of darkness and evil to the mysteries at hand, and of maintaining that air of suspense and intrigue that keeps one glued to the book until the last page is reached. And who cannot resist a dark and anguished hero with a painful past? Will Captain Lacey ever recover his spirits and rally? Will he learn to live with his past, or will things haunt him forever? And will he ever achieve a happy and romantic ending? (For the sake of the series, let's hope that this will not happen for a while at least!) Smoothly written and briskly paced, &quot;A Regimental Murder&quot; was a pleasure and joy to read. The question is: will I be able to contain myself for an entire year before the next Captain Gabriel Lacey installment is published?	2004-05-13
675086:US	52830980	R1RIZXPDS75RWV	0060577487	491139140	Lady Whistledown Strikes Back	Books	3	15	17	N	N	a nice read	I think I may the only person on the planet that's not completely over the moon with this anthology. The stories were nice, different, and rather well written. It's just that as a whole, I found them to be an average good read (3 stars), and I truly was expecting a lot more from this anthology.<br />All four stories have Lady Neely's dinner party in which Lady Neely's jeweled bracelet is stolen as the common denominator. In Julia Quinn's &quot;The First Kiss,&quot; Tillie Howard, meets her dead brother's good friend, Peter Thompson, at the dinner party. Both Tillie and Peter form a bond over their shared grief, and fall in love with each other. But Tillie is an heiress, while Peter is quite penniless. And if that's not enough, Lady Whistledown has named Peter as one of the suspects in the theft. Will Peter be able to clear his name and win Tillie's hand in marriage? I found Ms Quinn's story to be charming and enjoyable. And if it wasn't one of the more stellar stories in the anthology, it wasn't an awful read either. Unlike Mia Ryan's &quot;The Last Temptation&quot; which started off fantastically only to degenerate into awfulness before my eyes. Miss Isabella Martin (Lady Neely's companion) is about to turn thirty, and she's never even been kissed properly yet! But who would have guessed that when Lady Neely sends her over to Lord Roxbury's town house so that Isabella can help him plan a party, that the rake would mistake her for his mistress and give her her first kiss! And what a kiss it is too! But can a paid companion afford to pin her heart and hopes on a rakish lord? I'm not sure if it was because of the language (far too many modern phrases) or the heroine (Isabella)'s tendency to giggle. Giggly heroines have always annoyed me, and Isabella certainly lived up to my expectations. The story wasn't a bad one even if it really wasn't really a story about the crossing of class lines since Isabella was a distant relative of Lady Neely. And perhaps if Isabella hadn't giggled her way from start to finish I might have been charmed too. <br />On the other hand I really enjoyed Suzanne Enoch's &quot;The Best of Both Worlds.&quot; It is true that the ending was a bit abrupt, but this is one story that rather captured my fancy, and I was really pleased when the happily ever-after for this hero &amp; heroine was achieved. Charlotte Birling's parents expect to marry the staid and respectable young man that they have chosen for her. Except that Charlotte has fallen in love with the rakish Lord Maxton, and wonder of wonders, he;s in love with her too! Can Charlotte persuade her parents to relent, or will she be doomed to marry where she doesn't love? &quot;The Best of Both Worlds&quot; had the poignancy and urgency necessary to make a story a good read. I only wished that the story could have been developed more so that the ending was not so abrupt.<br />The last story in the anthology is different from the previous three in that it features an estranged couple, Max and Sophia. In Karen Hawkins' &quot;The Only One for ME&quot; Max and Sophia had separated many years ago due a a big misunderstanding -- he had been accused of cheating at cards, and Sophia instead of believing in him, had believed the accusers. After years of separation, anger and bitterness, Sophia has finally decided to end her marriage by asking for an annulment. But does she truly want it? This is the question that confronts her when Max finally comes home to face her. And then Lady Neely's bracelet is stolen, and people being to look sideways at Max again. Except this time, Sophia is determined to prove her faith in her estranged husband by unmasking the real thief herself... The most developed character and emotion-wise, my only quibble with this story was that I was unable to understand Sophia's anger towards Max. So he left her; it would have been difficult to stay with a wife who thinks that you are a cheat. And why didn't the ninny go to her husband and ask hisforgiveness once the truth was out, for goodness sake?! On the other hand Karen Hawkins' tale, along with Suzanne Enoch's, were the only really cathartic ones in this anthology. Both stories rated about 4 stars in my opinion, and were what made reading this anthology worthwhile. <br />On the whole, &quot;Lady Whistledown Strikes Back&quot; was a good 3 star read. The stories were nice and well written. They may not have been stellar examples of the four authours' usual efforts, but put together, this anthology would definitely yeild a few hours of pleasurable reading.	2004-05-09
675538:US	52830980	R1TCVST4VDMHHU	0060581050	576689910	I Dreamed I Married Perry Mason: A Cece Caruso Mystery	Books	4	2	3	N	N	fantastic first novel	Whether or not you're an Erle Stanley Gardner or Perry Mason fan, most mystery addicts are bound to enjoy &quot;I Dreamed I Married Perry Mason.&quot; Fast paced and breezy, and with some rather witty and snappy dialogue, the novel was a pure joy to read.<br />Cece Caruso has suddenly developed a writer's bloc: with only a few chapters of her new biography of Erle Stanley Gardner written, she suddenly has no idea as to how to go on. And so she hits upon the notion of looking into Gardner's Court of Last Resorts heartbreak cases. For a while, Gardner had undertaken to represent &quot;hopeless&quot; cases, provided the plaintiffs were neither rich nor middle-class. One case in particular catches Cece's interest: that of Joseph Albacco, Jr. Albacco had been tried and convicted of killing his wife, Jean, in 1957; and he had written a very polite yet poignant letter begging for Gardner's help. The letter had been misfiled, and from the looks of things, Gardner had not taken on the case. Curious, Cece goes to the prison that Albacco is serving time in to hear his side of things. According to Albacco, he is innocent of his wife's murder, and the crime had never really been investigated properly because the police had lost all interest in the case once they zeroed in on him as the prime suspect. Albacco also claims to have had an alibi for the time that he wife was killed, an alibi he is still reluctant to use as it would destroy another's reputation. Intrigued and moved, Cece finds herself promising to investigate, and soon finds herself neck deep in a forty-seven year old murder investigation, playing both the roles of Perry Mason and Paul Drake! A game that soon becomes quite dangerous when she realizes that there is someone who would do anything to keep her from discovering the truth...<br />I was hooked from the very first page! I enjoyed Susan Kandel's breezy style of writing and her snappy dialogue; and I enjoyed all the biographical bits about Erle Stanley Gardner -- the urge to go out and borrow several Perry Mason novels as well as watch the TV series grew with every page. And while it's true that the ending is a bit rushed and sudden, this truly wasn't that bad a detraction. Especially since book flowed smoothly and seamlessly, and at a rather brisk pace. &quot;I Married Perry Mason&quot; was a fantastic first novel and read, and one that I cannot recommend highly enough. Definitely a good book to take on holiday for a nice unwinding session.	2004-05-09
678141:US	52830980	R242VGZ8CXNCD9	0451211839	152389042	Skylark (Company of Rogues)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	a bit slow, but still compelling and engrossing	There is a reason why Jo Beverly wins so many awards and accolades. For who else would be able to take a much used plot device, pair it with a heroine that took me a while to warm up to, and still come up with a compelling and absorbing read?<br />Laura Gardeyne is a very frightened young woman. With the death of her fun loving husband, Hal, her 3 year old son, Harry, is now heir to her father-in-law's title, estate and riches. And Laura is almost convinced that her brother-in-law, Jack, may have it in his mind to murder her little boy so that he (Jack) can inherit everything. All Laura has are suspicions, but they are driving her mad with paronia. What should she do? What can she do? And then two things happen that gives her the first glimmer of hope. First, she discovers a letter in her father-in-law's desk that seems to suggest that there may be another heir, one whose claim definitely supersedes Harry's; and secondly, an old suitor, Stephen Ball turns up. Many years ago, serious and studious Stephen had proposed marriage, but Laura had chosen the fun-loving and more sophisticated Hal Gardeyne instead. Both Stephen and Laura have avoided each other since. Can Laura trust Stephen to help her find the missing heir and protect Harry from Jack? Will he even agree to help her?<br />It's true, this particular Jo Beverley novel is a bit slow moving. But it truly doesn't mean that this made it a slow and boring read. To the contrary, the more sedate pacing allowed for the authour to slowly develop Laura's character. I rather enjoyed &quot;watching&quot; Laura change from the scared to death and slightly self-absorbed young woman into a more intelligent and less flighty one. This, was what made the novel a compelling read. The small suspense of trying to figure out if the two men at the inn were villains or not, was well done too. However, it is true that the much slower pacing did detract a little from the overall excellence of the novel. Halfway through, the novel almost stops moving forward as Laura and Stephen grapple with their unspoken feelings for each other, and with the mystery of the two men at the inn, over and over again. On the whole though I thought that &quot;Skylark&quot; was a rather good &quot;Rogue&quot; romance novel, engrossing and compelling, and well worth the money spent.	2004-05-06
685991:US	52830980	R36HCALSEIMXUC	0060549300	149588686	It Takes a Hero (Avon Romantic Treasure Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	3 1/2 stars: good story marred a little by prose style	Since returning from the Napoleonic wars, Rafe Danvers has made a living solving problems for the rich and titled. Currently, he's trying to solve the murder of a rich nabob. That is until the rich and powerful Countess of Tottley offers to give him the deeds to a small estate if he would take on a task for her. Lady Tottley wants Rafe to find the authour of the popular Miss Darby adventures, and persuade her to stop writing completely. Apparently in the latest Miss Darby installment, Miss Darby's faithful swain dies in battle, prompting the heroine to forswear marriage forever. Unfortunately, Miss Darby's ardent fans, the impressionable young society misses, have all decided to follow suit and have taken an oath not marry. Faced with the prospect of having their unmarried daughters on their hands forever, the ladies of the ton are at their wit's end, and hence the drastic step of hiring Rafe. Less than thrilled by his latest assignment, but wanting the prize, Rafe agrees. The trail leads him to Bramley Hollow in Kent and to the incredibly vexatious, sharp-tongued and engaging Miss Rebecca Tate. Rafe may not be completely sure as to whether or not Rebecca is the elusive authour of the Miss Darby novels, but he's rather enjoying their verbal sparring matches. That is until a few sinister incidents makes him realize that Rebecca is in danger and at the heart of a much bigger mystery...<br />Once you through the rather florid prose style, &quot;Once a Hero&quot; turned out to be a very entertaining read. The story is a good and intriguing one and Rafe and Rebecca were both likable and engaging characters. As for the romantic relationship that develops between Rafe and Rebecca, it was vibrant, exciting and fairly brimming with sexual tension. Some readers, however, may find Rebecca's desire to find and keep the stolen ruby very distasteful, but, unfortunately, her desire to find and sell the ruby, and her belief that the ruby is rightfully her's because her father had figured out where to steal it from, was in keeping with the times. My advice, if you're looking for a good and entertaining read, is to overlook the overblown prose style and the heroine's less upright tendencies and concentrate on the fast paced and exciting adventure at hand.	2004-04-30
688057:US	52830980	R19VGCHHG4GUDR	0060565144	566994604	Once a Gentleman (Ladies' Fashionable Cabinet Trilogy)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	a superbly romantic read	Not very many authours can write a quiet and elegant romance novel that revolves around a couple forced to marry and not fill it with swirling and overpowering emotion (be it anger, hate or passion) so that you rather loose sight of the original plot premise, the forced marriage. But Candice Hern succeeded admirably here, I thought. A word of warning however, if you're more in the mood for a romance novel that fairly reeks of sexual tension and passion, you might want to give &quot;Once a Gentleman&quot; a miss. If on the other hand you're in the mood for a book about a couple that are compelled to marry, where the heroine is in love with the hero, but where it takes the man a while to fully appreciate and fall in love with his admirable wife, that is written in a more restrained vein, then you definitely will enjoy &quot;Once a Gentleman.&quot;<br />Nicholas Parrish as always seen Prudence Armitage as a mousy but intelligent friend -- the good sort, but definitely not the type he would ever consider marrying. And yet, because he unintentionally ends up compromising her, that is exactly what happens. Now newly married man Nicholas Parrish has to consider the best way to go about making his marriage to shy and demure Prudence work. To start with, he'll be the very picture of a patient husband and not press her for marital intimacies until she's ready. What Nicholas didn't know, however, was that Prudence has been in love with him for quite a while now, and that she is more than willing to be &quot;true&quot; wife to him. But Prudence also realizes that she's not the type of wife Nicholas would have chosen for himself if he had had the choice. Will Nicholas and Prudence be able to make their marriage work? Or will continue to blunder about in misconception and misapprehension forever?<br />I think what I liked most about &quot;Once a Gentleman&quot; was that both the hero and heroine are nice, likable people -- it's nice to read a romance novel where you like both themain characters and where you don't spend a lot of time wanting to brain either. Another thing I really liked was that the authour didn't take the path of turning her heroine into a sudden supermodel with a few snips of the hair and a new wardrobe. Yes, Prudence does get a new hairstyle and more attractive clothes, but she suddenly doesn't become the Season's latest sensation with hordes of Regency bucks panting after her, thus making the novel another one of those where the hero learns to appreciate his wife via jealousy. Prudence remains the shy, reserved young lady that charmed me from the very beginning. And this allowed for the authour to add a little humour to the bits where Prudence tries to flirt with Nicholas only to have things go terribly wrong. It also made things seem terribly realistic. If you know nothing about flirting, and are not used to it, to suddenly acquire the prowess of a siren seems rather unrealistic, and yet you always see this in most books! Also nicely done was the gradual manner in which Nicholas grows to love and appreciate his wife (and to learn to be a little less proud and self absorbed). Nicholas has a lot of less admirable traits to get rid off, and the authour shows him coming to grips with his less admirable side in a very believable manner. &quot;Once a Gentleman&quot; doesn't have a very complicated plot. Rather, it focuses completely on the relationship between a husband and wife. It is a somewhat quiet read, but a rather romantic one at that.	2004-04-29
688402:US	52830980	RBOM71XPASENN	0804119759	887712531	Devil Takes a Bride	Books	4	8	10	N	N	a truly satisfying and romantic read	The fourth book in the Knight Miscellany series, &quot;Devil takes a Bride&quot; was a truly good and enjoyable installment that lived up to expectations. <br />Lizzie Carlyle has been in love with Lord Alec Knight ever since she was a little girl; but when the rogue finally broke her heart (&quot;Lady of Desire&quot;), Lizzie put her starry eyed dreams firmly behind her, and leaving her guardian's (the 8th duke of Hawkscliffe, and Lord Alec's eldest brother) household, took a post as the Dowager of Strathmore's companion. Here, in the quiet countryside, and far away from the gossip and intrigues of London society, she hoped to mend her heart and regain her good sense. Unfortunately the Dowager's nephew, &quot;Devil&quot; Strathmore seems to be another rogue, just like Lord Alec -- a hopeless gambler and spendthrift, a rake, and a care-for-naught, with little thought for the concern he's causing his doting aunt. And when the man finally turns up at his aunt's home (due to some unscrupulous machinations of Lizzie's part), Lizzie's not shy about letting him know just how little she thinks of him. But she cannot deny that Lord Strathmore is sinfully handsome and wholly seductive, and that he is beginning to affect the way she feels and thinks about him, especially when he begins to show his more vulnerable and caring side to her. Unfortunately, Lord Strathmore is also a man haunted by the death of his family and who is in the middle of a dangerous game of revenge. And he has no place in his life for love and Lizzie right now. Will Lizzie's love persuade Lord Strathmore to give up his plans of revenge, or will Lizzie once again have to nurse her bruised and broken heart?<br />I thoroughly enjoyed the &quot;Devil Takes a Bride.&quot; The novel was one of those sweeping historical romance novels full of angst and longing and passion. The story was a good one, and I enjoyed Ms Foley's character complex and compelling portrayals of both Lizzie and Lord Strathmore. Lizzie, especially, was a joy to read about -- principled, intelligent and yet human enough to admit to her feelings of passion and longing for Lord Strathmore. As for Lord Strathmore, I don't think that I've come across a more complex and deeply conflicted character in quite a while. I thought that the authour made a good job of developing the passion and love that blossoms between Lizzie and Lord Strathmmore; I also thought that her depiction of the pain and anger that Lizzie felt when Lord Strathmore disappointed her was well done as well. The first half of the book unfolded at a snappy pace, and made for some rather compelling reading. And my one quibble with the book (aside from some very 20th century phrases) was what happened when the romance subplot dovetailed into the revenge subplot. For a man bent on revenge, who was about to see his revenge scheme see fruition, and who was rather afraid that the men he was baiting may learn of his love for Lizzie, the bit where the authour decided to make Lord Strathmore court Lizzie before the eyes of the ton made very little sense. Surely Lord Strathmore should have been a little concerned that these men would hear of his ardent courtship, thus either putting Lizzie or his revenge scheme in danger? But perhaps I'm the only one for whom this bit didn't quite add up? Aside from this quibble however, the &quot;Devil Takes a Bride&quot; was an enjoyable and engrossing read, and one that engaged my interest on several fronts.	2004-04-28
688676:US	52830980	R2UWX51TW09U15	0312322186	857072091	The Bug Funeral (Simon Shaw Mysteries, No. 4)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	a fast and intriguing read	If word got out that respected history Professor Simon Shaw was investigating a case of supposed reincarnation, his reputation and career would be cooked. But that is exactly the situation that Simon finds himself in when in response to a plea from a good friend, he agrees to see Helen Williams. Ever since she was a child, Helen has had memories of someone else's life -- a woman (Annie Evans) who lived at the turn of the century in Raleigh, North Carolina (the very town that Simon's university is in). In an ironic twist, what Helen wants is not for Simon to prove that she really is Annie Evans reincarnated as Helen Williams, but to prove that her &quot;memories&quot; of Annie's life are completely false, especially since part of Helen's memories include Annie's involvement in the burial of a baby. Wanting absolutely noting to do with this particular case, but compelled to help, Simon begins to investigate Helen's &quot;memories&quot; and finds himself being reluctantly and deeply drawn into the case. Far too many of Helen's &quot;memories&quot; are turning out to be fact -- could Helen be a case of true reincarnation after all? <br />&quot;The Bug Funeral&quot; was a very fast and engrossing read. Simon's latest case proved to be truly intriguing and very engaging one, and I found myself drawn into the mystery from the very first page. Sarah R. Shaber definitely knows how to write and present a good Malice Domestic mystery novel that will keep you guessing and riveted till the very last page. And while Simon Shaw may not have matured much over the past few years, and while I found his rigid approach to the whole reincarnation notion a bit trying, I'd still vote this as a good read.	2004-04-28
693259:US	52830980	RV9AC00S5USC1	0312318073	279561448	Murder Is Academic: A Cambridge Mystery	Books	3	3	3	N	N	a nice if not very suspenseful read	When the head of the English department, Margaret Joplin, at St. Etheldreda's College at Cambridge University dies in a seeming accident, lecturer Cassandra James is offered the post as acting head. Her most important job is to see to it that the faculty come up to speed and publish as many articles and books within the year so that the beleaguer college will continue to exist. With so many jobs on the line, especially her's, Cassandra will have to crack the whip. So that when Margaret's husband suggests that Cassandra be Margaret's literary executor, Cassandra agrees to take on the task in the hopes that she will be able to use some of Margaret's work to bolster the department's unimpressive cv. What Cassandra finds in Margaret's papers however suggests that there was a relationship between Margaret and one of the students at the college who had died in a climbing accident a few months earlier. Cassandra begins to wonder: was Margaret's death an accident after all? Could she have been murdered? Cassandra cannot rid herself of the feeling that there is something fishy about Margaret's death, even if evidence points to the whole thing being a coincidence. And she's determined to investigate Margaret's death until she's satisfied...<br />&quot;Murder is Academic&quot; may not be a recommended read for everyone. It's not really your usual amateur sleuth fare -- it takes place over a much longer period of time (about a year), and unwinds at a more sedate and slightly more long-winded pace -- there were moments when I even began to wonder if there is actually a mystery at hand to resolve! On the other hand, there are quite a few interesting plot twists and red herring suspects, and if you enjoy an in-depth look at what running a troubled English department is like, you're bound to enjoy &quot;Murder is Academic,&quot; especially one that is well crafted and beautifully written.	2004-04-25
694021:US	52830980	R1WJ034NJV8G52	0425196569	985052754	A Lady of Distinction (Berkley Sensation)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	2 1/2 stars: lacks proper character developement, I thought	Lady Juliet Cavendish thought that she had become used to being underrated by everyone even though she was the accomplished Egyptologist in her family. So why does being dismissed by her father's latest procurer, the notorious Morgan Beauchamp, grate so much? And then to her horror, her father insists that she work with Morgan in order to catalogue the artifacts! Working side by side with Morgan however, Lady Juliet soon catches glimpse of another Morgan -- the intelligent and more seductive Morgan, a man who's beginning to haunt her thoughts and make her wish she wasn't such a straight-laced young lady after all...<br />&quot;A Lady of Distinction&quot; starts off really strong, with a confrontation between Lady Juliet and Morgan -- he thinks that she's a spoilt tonnish lady with more hair than wit, while she thinks that he's an uncouth adventurer. Of course they soon discover that they're mistaken in their initial impressions about each other, but by then each is powerfully intrigued by the other, even if they will not admit to themselves. So that if you consider the novel from the 'sexual tension' angle, the book rates about 3 stars. And the subplot dealing with the Egyptian artifacts -- the missing objects, the curse, etc -- while a little skimpy, is interesting enough to maintain this 3 stars rating. Where the book fell short for me was in the character development of Lady Juliet and Morgan. That other characters are not so well developed either, but this didn't really matter to me as the book really revolved around Lady Juliet and Morgan. I wanted to know how Lady Juliet became so interested in, captivated by and knowledgeable about ancient Egypt; why her relationship with her father was so bad; and why she was so quiet and restrained. Was it all because it had been drummed into her that a lady behaved a certain way? Or was there something else to it all? The information was frustratingly scarce. We learn a little more about how Morgan became an adventurer, but again the information was skimpy and breezily thrown in here and there. And I really wanted to know about the events that had led him to become the man he was when we're first introduced to him. This lack of proper character development made this an almost one note read for me, even though the book unfolded smoothly and at a relatively quick pace. So that on the whole, I'd vote &quot;A Lady of Distinction&quot; a 2 1/2 star read.	2004-04-24
695868:US	52830980	R17WF4LFPWVUMN	0821776266	854855022	A Slight Change Of Plans (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	a wonderful debut	Penelope Lindon was really shocked when she discovered the murdered body of her neighbour, the Marquess of Worthington one bright morning, but she never gave a thought as to how much this discovery would change her life. For the death of Edmund Pargetter meant that Edmund's rogue of a cousin, Lucas would now be the new Marquess of Worthington. A bit of a rake, Lucas had been shipped off to the navy 11 years ago when his indiscretions became too much for the family and the little community of Four Corners. Now the gentleman, who has risen to the rank of captain by his own merits, has come home to a family in shambles and an estate in disrepair. Will Lucas be able to unite his family and turn the estate around? Or will he, too, turn out to be a scoundrel just like his cousin, Edmund? Penelope is all for giving Lucas a chance to prove that he has changed and to lend a helping hand in establishing him with his wary tenants and a gossip hungry community of, but is she willing to allow the rakish, handsome and charming man access to her heart? For Lucas shows every sign of being quite the interested parti, but can Penelope who has so many responsibilities (taking care of her nephew and niece, the estate and the tenants) afford to take a chance on a one time rogue?<br />I really liked &quot;A Slight Change of Plans.&quot; The novel had two main subplots: Lucas's attempts to woo Penelope, and the murder investigation. And I thought that Glenda Garland did a rather good job of merging these two subplots so that they became one seamless whole, and for allowing both plots to develop at a more sedate speed. The more sedate pacing allowed for the authour to show readers why Penelope needed to be careful and wary about her feelings for Lucas in very credible manner, and also allowed for readers to get a wider picture of how things stood and unfolded in the small community of Four Corners where many villagers were related to each other in one way or the other. And while I did think that the resolution of the mystery subplot left a little something to be desired, I did like the quiet little romance that blossomed between Penelope and Lucas. &quot;A Slight Change of Plans&quot; may not be to everyone's taste, but I certainly enjoyed it very much.	2004-04-22
696800:US	52830980	RFMXU895HT3YC	0821776754	827602312	The General's Daughter (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a satisfying read	Miss Marian Randall was quite content with her life as an army doctor's daughter, following her father from battle to battle. So she is quite shocked, upon her father death, to discover she is not Captain Randall's daughter afterall, but rather the illegitimate daughter of General Lord Grimsby. Appalled and distressed, Marian's life is thrown further off kilter when he newly &quot;discovered&quot; father insists that she return to England, so that his wife, Lady Grimsby, can find a suitable husband for her. Alone and with very little money, there is very little that Marian can do except to fall in reluctantly with the general's wishes. <br />In London, she finds her worst fears almost realized: Lady Grimsby is most displeased about being saddled with yet another of her husband's children, and is very hostile towards her. And then there is the unpalatable fact that Marian finds herself to be totally unequipped to lead and enjoy a fashionable London life -- not that she even wants to, mind! If it wasn't for the fact that she rather likes her newly acquired half-sister, Isabelle, life in London under Lady Grimsby's thumb would be a nightmare. And there is Isabelle's fiance, Major Adam Lyonbridge. A more gallant, brave and handsome gentleman, Marian has yet to meet. And it doesn't take Marian long to realize what her true feelings for the dashing major really are. But he's destined to marry Isabelle! How will she bear with the heartbreak once these two are married, esp when she knows that Isabelle simply loathes Adam?<br />On the whole, &quot;The General's Daughter&quot; is a very well written novel that not only focused on the love that develops between Adam and Marian, but also on complex familial relationships and the problems that parents create when they try to arrange their children's lives for them. None of the characters, except perhaps for Marian, are perfect. Most of them have glaring flaws, and few redeeming qualities. Like General Grimsby, for example, who seems to have thought nothing of constantly humiliating his wife by having affair after affair, and leaving her to cope with the welfare of his illegitimate children -- no doubt the reason why his deeply unhappy wife is a bit of a harpy! The anger and disdain that some of the characters feel for each other really does leave an impression, thus making this particular novel is slightly darker than usual read for a Zebra release. So, if you're not a fan of swirling emotions, beware. On the other hand, all this emotion did make &quot;The General's Daughter a much more powerful read. And if I had any problems with this novel, it was Adam's tendency to perpetually cast Isabelle as the perpetual harridan witch of the piece, and Marian as the much put upon heroine -- this really got trying after a while, esp since I was enjoying the unexpected friendship that developed between these two sisters. <br />A much more complex and textured Regency-era romance novel than most, &quot;The General's Daughter&quot; made for enjoyable and satisfying reading, esp if you enjoy heroines who are strong, courageous and gallant.	2004-04-22
702399:US	52830980	RDM3NBWCHOSCW	0446531758	551797513	'Til Death Do Us Part (Bailey Weggins Mysteries)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	nice light read	Kate White is rather good at writing fast paced, quick reads. The premises of her mystery novels are always rather good as well. For me, though, where things fail to satisfy is in the developments of the characters (they all remain rather superficially paper thin), and the plot -- things generally start of really well but then tend to stagnate for a good chunk of the book, before taking off somewhere around the last third of the book. And with &quot;Til Death Do Us Part&quot; much of this criticism was true. But is also true that of the three Bailey Weggins mystery novels published so far, this is the one I enjoyed most.<br />Someone seems bent on offing the bridesmaids of the Cross/Slavin wedding -- or so Ashley Haines (one of the bridesmaids at the wedding) claims to Bailey Weggins, a true crime writer who has also found herself entangled in a few murder investigations of her own. And while Bailey would like nothing better than to ignore Ashley's claims (esp since rich and super snooty Ashley just rubs her up the wrong way), this is one allegation that Bailey cannot ignore since she herself was one of the Cross/Slavin bridesmaids. What Bailey learns is that two other bridesmaids who had become rather close since the wedding have died in accidents within weeks of each other. Intrigued by the coincidence of it all, Bailey decides to look into to things. But she has barely started her investigation when Ashley is found dead! The police believe that Ashley's death was accidental, but by now Bailey is convinced that someone is out to kill every single bridesmaid from the wedding. Discovering why and who is proving more difficult than usual, esp since Bailey is now spending a great deal of time looking over her shoulder. Will Bailey solve the mystery before the determined killer gets to her? Or will she too, like the bridesmaids before her, become another victim of an &quot;accidental&quot; death...<br />If you're looking for a fast and light read, esp if you're en route somewhere, this is definitely the book for you. Events unfold at a brisk pace, and the authour's narrative style is snappy and engaging. Time definitely does fly when you're reading &quot;Til Death Do Us Part.&quot; But I did think that the story and character developments left a lot to be desired. The book is a goodish read -- just not a stellar one.	2004-04-18
703124:US	52830980	R3IGT3EQ5XF9GZ	0451211766	132776432	The Rules of Love (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	a satisfying and romantic read	On the whole, I rather enjoy Amanda McCabe's Regency-era romance novels (mostly the last few ones) -- the books are not always ones with vastly original plots, but the authour has a rather unique way of telling a tale so that I quite frequently think that, &quot;this is new&quot; or &quot;what an interesting twist.&quot; The same proved to be true of &quot;The Rules of Love&quot; -- the plot was not a very original one, and the characters seemed to be the same stock type; and yet, by the time I was halfway through the novel, all I could thunk of was how the authour had, as usual, put her own unique stamp on all these much used props in order to give us this very enjoyable and satisfying new romance novel.<br />If it wasn't for her irresponsible younger brother, Mrs. Rosalind Chase (a widow) probably would have carried on happily running her conservatory for young ladies, and secretly penning her book of manners for members of the ton. But her brother's foolish and expensive antics are getting completely out of hand, and would, probably, not only land them both in the poor house, but also destroy her own good name as well. Rosalind holds Lord Michael Morley, poet and a disgraceful reprobate solely to blame for her brother's bad habits. And when she learns that Lord Morley, a great breaker of rules, may be single-handedly behind the cause for the declining sales of her etiquette book, Rosalind decides to visit London in order to do some investigating. Thrown into that gentleman's company, however, Rosalind begins to discover that there is more to Lord Morley than she had hitherto suspected -- and that there may be more to her than just the staid school mistress. For here in London, glimpses of the young carefree girl she used to be is resurfacing. Should Rosalind repress that lighthearted part of her, or embrace it? And what of the powerful feelings she has for Lord Morley? Will the attraction spell her downfall or actually bring her great happiness...<br />The nice thing about &quot;Rules of Love&quot; was that all the tension and conflict in the novel arose not because of dastardly villains out to murder the hero and heroine, but from the differing points of view that Rosalind and Lord Morley have about rules: Rosalind believes that following the rules is what keeps society civilized, whereas Lord Morley believes strongly that following petty little rules destroys the soul. There are merits (and demerits) to both points of views, and the authour uses certain plot developments to show this and to open the eyes of both her protagonists. This makes the happily ever-after ending both credible and satisfying. Another nice touch was making Lord Morley slightly younger and more exuberant than Rosalind, and making Rosalind the more mature, responsible and quieter one. This made the gradual 'unstiffening' of Rosalind pleasant to read, and the developing romance between the two principals truly satisfying. On the whole, &quot;Rules of Love&quot; was a very enjoyable and worthwhile read, and definitely worth its cover price.	2004-04-17
705255:US	52830980	RZ0W3G5JNCHA6	1590581113	108919637	Interrupted Aria (Tito Amato Series)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	an excellent debut	I enjoyed Beverle Graves Myers' debut mystery novel immensely -- lush, vivid and very, very absorbing, &quot;Interrupted Aria&quot; turned out to be the kind of mystery novel that both intrigued and entertained, and that was very good read.<br />In eighteenth century Europe, the castrati (male singers who, for the sake of their beautiful voices, were castrated as boys) occupy contradictory positions in society: on the one hand they are much sought after and feted; but on the other hand they are also, privately, often viewed with disgust and embarrassment by the very ones who prize their talents. For Tito Amato, a young castrato, having to cope with both the scorn and the adulation is taxing and confusing -- for while he enjoys singing and the effect that his amazing voice has on his listeners, he also loathes the fact that it was this mutilation to his manhood that has made him so sought after. Which makes his return to Venice all the more bittersweet. How will his family greet him? Will they embrace after so many years of separation, or will they, too like others, be repulsed and embarrassed by his condition? And on top of it all there are his suspicions about the so-called accident that resulted in his castration...<br />But most of this fades into the background as Tito finds himself emersed in the goings on at the Teatro San Stefano -- the strange accidents that are plaguing the company and the rivalry between the company's likable and talented star, Adelina Belluna (who also happens to be the mistress of the company's patron, Domenico Viviani), and Caterina Testi, her testy rival. And when on opening night, the Adelina keels over and dies just before the second act, everyone suspects poison. Was Adelina poisoned by enemies the rich and powerful Domenico Viviani, or by her jealous rival, Caterina? And when Tito's friend, a fellow castrati who disliked Adelina immensely, is arrested for the crime, Tito realizes that it will be up to him to discover who killed Adelina and why. Will Tito be able to uncover the truth in time to prevent the execution of an innocent man? Or will more powerful and corrupt forces put a halt to his investigations?<br />Smoothly paced and told in an engaging and vividly descriptive narrative style, &quot;Interrupted Aria&quot; was a treat to read. The authour's depth of knowledge and love for her subject matter was readily apparent, and made reading this mystery novel all the more fun. Also adding to the complexity of the novel is the private anguish and bitterness that Tito feels about being a castrato, and his fear that his castration didn't come about because of an accident, but because of something more venal. So that while the mystery at hand was not all that suspenseful (very few plot twists), all the intrigue and complex relationships that the characters had with each other, made &quot;Interrupted Aria&quot; a very compelling and engrossing read indeed. All in all, an excellent 4 star read.	2004-04-15
711125:US	52830980	RRC5UXMX40E2L	0312982305	372790425	The Wedding Night	Books	3	9	12	N	N	an average ok-ish read	Using several well known plot devices and gambits, authour Barbara Dawson Smith finishes her Kenyon brothers/Rosebud series with &quot;The Wedding Night.&quot; And whether or not readers think that the novel is a worthwhile buy/read is going to be strictly a matter of personal taste and inclination.<br />In a bid to start his own socially powerful dynasty (so that he can compete with his legitimately born Kenyon half brothers), rich Samuel Firth marries fifteen year old Lady Cynthia Grey. The only daughter of a gambling mad duke, Cynthia's father agrees to marry off his young daughter in return for money in order to pay off his gambling debts. A shy and scholarly girl, Lady Cynthia approaches her marriage with the notion that she's marrying some kind of romantic hero. Except that Samuel is no romantic hero: he's cold and forbidding and when he tries to consummate his marriage, his young wife breaks down into hysterical tears. Disgusted, Samuel leaves his wife and departs in order to make a trip around the world. <br />Four years pass, and Cynthia has grown into a lovely and intelligent young woman, used to leading a life without a husband. Desiring her independence, Cynthia hits on the notion of asking for a legal separation from Samuel. And when Samuel gets wind of this, he rushes home to confront his errant wife. A legal separation would not help him in his plan to throw his social success in Kenyons faces. But instead of finding a meek and biddable wife, he finds an independent and determined young lady -- a young lady that he would very much like to bed. And so Samuel comes up with a plan: if Cynthia will live with him for a while, and help him establish himself with the ton, he will sign her separation. Of course Samuel has every intention of seducing his wife into seeing things his way. But he has a lot to contend with: a wife who (apparently) has close ties to his despised Kenyon relatives and who is determined not to share a life with him; someone who is trying to kill him; and a horde of suitors who seem to be in love with his wife! Can Samuel pull off his scheme?<br />Unfortunately, there is really nothing new (plot-wise) or fresh about &quot;The Wedding Night&quot; -- yet another older man who marries a teenager, and who takes off for 4 years because she's unable to contemplate being bedded by him, but who returns when she demands a legal separation from him -- even the characters are the same stock characters we see in most romance novels: a remote and much misunderstood hero who hides a heart of gold, a heroine who is clever and beautiful and who is still in love with her undeserving spouse, etc. So that whether or not you will glean any satisfaction from reading this novel will depend on whether or not you are a fan of the series. Even there, however, you might be a little disappointed: in earlier novels, the eldest Kenyon brother (Michael) has always expressed reservations about Samuel's character, yet here, every Kenyon is eager to embrace Samuel, thus making his reluctance to have anything to do with them (while understandable) seem churlish. Whatever reservations the Kenyon brothers may have had about Samuel seems to have evaporated somewhere along the way! Even the stalking/attempted murder subplots failed to lift the book from it's average read status. <br />I found &quot;The Wedding Night&quot; to be a well written novel that rehashed several overused plot devices, and as such was a middling ok-ish read -- but there really was no compelling reason to urge anyone to rush out and buy/borrow this book.	2004-04-11
712582:US	52830980	R3SCCS3LT1ZV1G	0060560789	244897573	Your Wicked Ways (Duchess in Love)	Books	3	41	43	N	N	starts off well, but then...	In a rather strange way, &quot;Your Wicked Ways&quot; made for some rather compelling reading because of the enormous sympathy I had for the heroine, Helene, and because of the minor romance subplot involving the 'hero's' brother and his sometime mistress. However, a small word of warning: if you think that this is going to be the kind of romance novel where the heroine teaches her errant husband a much deserved lesson -- think again. Much as I found myself unable to put this novel down, I was really chagrined that far from making Rees pay for his past callousness, Helene actually apologizes quite a few times for being a quick tempered wife!<br />Helene was barely seventeen when she met and fell in love with Rees, the Earl of Godwin. They eloped. But their marriage turned out to be a disaster mainly because Rees turned out to be an insensitive brute both in and out of the bedroom. Unable to cope with Helene's anger and disappointment, Rees threw her out; and husband and wife have been living apart for the past ten years -- him a life of dissolute debauchery, and she a life of chaste good behaviour. Now, however, things have become desperate for Helene. She wants to have a child, but Rees won't give he a divorce. And so with her friend's, Esme, encouragement and support, Helene decides to shed her nun-like ways in order to snare herself a lover. But when Rees learns of what she's up to, he makes (or threatens rather) an unexpected offer: he will father the child she so desperately wants if she will come back home. After a decade to bitter humiliation at her husband's hands, can Helene trust the man to keep his word? <br />While many readers may find &quot;His Wicked Ways&quot; disappointing, I did think that Eloisa James was successful in accomplishing what she set out to do (I think). I believe that the authour wanted to show how a heroine could still be attracted to and care for the hero, even if he is an insensitive boor. It was apparent that Helene still had feelings for Rees, feelings that readily came to the fore once they were living together again and working on his opera. And I think that the authour also wanted to do something slightly different be showing us that not all romance heroes are masters of lovemaking, and I did think that it was nice to see that this second time around, Rees was much more sensitive to giving Helene pleasure. Unfortunately, these two factors were not enough to counter the things that made me cringe. Like the fact that Rees was an insensitive clod for much of the book -- and not only towards Helene, but also his 'mistress' and his brother. (By the way I rather liked the romance that developed between the mistress and the brother -- it was romantic and actually quite thrilling). His refusal to give Helene a divorce, his shameful proposal that Helene live with him and his mistress in the same house while Helene was trying to conceive, and his absolute refusal to see his faults, were a real put-off. Ms James does try to soften Rees by implying that his bad childhood was at the root of much of his insensitive behaviour; but since she didn't really go into this very much, it was hard to forgive Rees his insensitivity and root for Helene and him to have their happily ever-after ending. Also, Rees didn't really grovel enough for my liking. In fact Helene did far too much apologizing for her part in why things went wrong between them in my book. So is &quot;His Wicked Ways&quot; a worthwhile read? I found it difficult to put the book down -- full of sympathy for Helene, I had to keep on reading to see what else Rees would do/demand of her, and how it would all end. So that in that sense, the book was a compelling and well written read. But I was truly put off by the 'hero's' behaviour and by Helene's meek acquiescence to the demands he places on her. So that on the whole I'd vote it a 3 star read.	2004-04-10
713265:US	52830980	R14FFOPYA79QBU	0451211707	88486218	Under a Lucky Star (Star Trilogy)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	a gem of a read	The lovely Lady Cynthia Fitzwilliam (also known as 'Frost Fair' because of her excessive icy reserve) was only seventeen when her parents launched her on London society, with the stern admonishment that she reserve all her charms for her excessive rich suitors. In fact, Lady Cynthia's mother, Lady Ballymere, has already set upon the repulsive, but rich, Sir James Filey as a potential husband for Lady Cynthia. But one magical night, Lady Cynthia meets Derek Whittaker at the opera. Handsome, honourable and kind, Derek is everything that Sir James is not, and fits Lady Cynthia's notion of what the ideal husband should be. But Derek is also poor, and knowing full well that her parents will never countenance Derek as a potential suitor, the dutiful Lady Cynthia deliberately cuts him out of her life even though the deed costs her a lot of pain and anguish. Now, three years later, Derek and Lady Cynthia meet again at Oldham Park, the Duke of Oldham's family estate. Derek is visiting his heavily pregnant sister, Natalie (Natalie's married to Lord Malcolm, the duke's younger son), while Lady Cynthia and her mother are guests of Lady Hannah (the duke's granddaughter &amp; Lord Malcolm's niece). And while Lady Cynthia feels quite overwrought about meeting Derek again, esp after their painful parting, she's nevertheless quite surprised to find that the feelings he aroused in her is still there and as strong as ever. But her mother wants her to snare yet another rich young man. Suddenly the dutiful Lady Cynthia is filled with rebellious thoughts about fulfilling her own needs and desires. Can a young lady who has spent years bending towards her mother's will suddenly rebel? And does Derek still care for her, or has she destroyed whatever tender feelings he ever had for her? For a meek young lady used to doing whatever her mother has told her to do, Lady Cynthia is going to have to do some hard thinking about her future, and whether or not Derek and love will have any part in it...<br />&quot;Under a Lucky Star&quot; is a follow-up to &quot;Under a Wishing Star;&quot; and again Diane Farr has penned another quiet little gem of a Regency-era romance novel. While the story is a very simple one with very few frills and fancies, Ms Farr's vivid portrayal of the love and attraction that bounds Lady Cynthia and Derek together is affecting and is what makes this novel an engrossing read. Will the Lady Cynthia and Derek be successful in their quest for a happily ever-after ending or will Lady Ballymere thwart them at the very end? Even though this is a romance novel and we know that a happily ever-after ending is ensured, there were a few suspenseful moments when I really did wonder about how this sought after ending would be achieved! Another thing that made this novel a fresh and compelling read was Ms Farr's wonderful portrayal of Lady Cynthia. Lady Cynthia as a heroine may not be everyone's cup of tea. She's almost too passive and gives in to her mother's demands at almost every turn. On the other hand the authour's portrayal of the heroine is very accurate and in keeping with what she's was trying to convey: the anguish an obedient and dutiful child would have to face as she tries to balance her own needs and desires with the needs and wants of her parents. And Lady Cynthia's moments of rebellion, when they came, were most welcome. <br />While not everyone may appreciate this quiet little gem, readers who enjoy character driven novels that are smoothly paced and intelligently executed will indeed enjoy &quot;Under a Lucky Star.&quot;	2004-04-09
716033:US	52830980	R1F4UTF0SM7EQ5	0425195252	557142549	Merely the Groom (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	a nice and satisfying read	The second novel in the Free Fellows League series (a series that centers on the romantic adventures of a group of men who have sworn not to marry before their 30th birthdays and to only marry for suitability's sake and not love), &quot;Merely the Groom&quot; proved to be a very engaging and endearing read. In this installment, Rebecca Hagan Lee introduces us to Colin McElreath (Viscount Grantham) and the set of unforeseen circumstances that necessitates his quick marriage to Miss Gillian.<br />Like his fellow Free Fellow friends, Colin McElreath (Viscount Grantham) has forsworn marriage in favour of a life of adventure and duty as a spy for the Crown. In Colin's case there is another reason why he cannot contemplate marriage anytime soon: Colin's father is a hopeless gambler who has managed to almost beggar the family. And in Colin's mind, no father in his right mind would ever consider Colin as a worthy and proper son-in-law. So that Colin has single-mindedly thrown himself into his work of spying and intrigue. But all this is soon put in jeopardy when Colin and his friends discover that there is a Bow Street investigator dogging Colin's footsteps. Apparently some cad has made use of Colin's alias in order to seduce and compromise the very rich Baron Davies's only daughter, Gillian. Now the Baron is breathing fire and demanding that Colin do the right thing and marry Gillian -- or else, the Baron threatens, the search for the other &quot;Colin&quot; will continue in spite of the fact that it will jeopardize Colin's current mission. And so, Colin agrees to marry Gillian. A task that isn't proving to be all that bitter since the Baron is very rich and because Gillian happens to be a beautiful and rather taking young lady in her own right. But Colin is also determined to find this other &quot;Colin&quot; -- to discover what his game is, and to find out how exactly how Gillian figures into everything. Because Colin is convinced that Gillian was selected for a reason,and he's determined to discover why, especially when he discovers that he has fallen in love with his new bride, and that keeping her safe and protected has taken a whole new meaning for him...<br />Once again, Rebecca Hagan Lee has penned a memorable and engaging Regency-era romance novel. While some aspects of the novel do beggar belief (like why on earth didn't the secret service department Colin worked for just threaten Baron Davies with something or the other in order to get him to leave Colin alone?), the book still proved to be an engaging read, mainly because of Colin and Gillian. Once again, Ms Lee has given us a sensitive and charming hero and an intelligent and taking heroine (does this herald a new and welcome trend in historical romance novels, one wonders?), a nice and sweetly sensual story about second chances in life and love, and an added bonus -- small intrigue subplot to keep things humming. As with &quot;Barely a Bride,&quot; I found &quot;Merely the Groom&quot; to be a very satisfyingly romantic read, and have no problem recommending it as a worthwhile read.	2004-04-07
716498:US	52830980	R29IE36KB11N87	0373836066	479593594	The Masqueraders	Books	5	47	48	N	N	still makes for fun/good  rereading	Another one of my favourite Georgette Heyer romance novels -- though truth to tell I have so many favourite Georgette Heyer novels that I've begun to think that it may be actually more enlightening to list the ones that I believe only merit 3 1/2 stars! But, with a plot can (successfully) boast of possessing the elements of romance, adventure and intrigue, &quot;The Masqueraders&quot; definitely does merit a 5 star rating.<br />Prudence Merriot and her brother, Robin, are back in England again because their father (affectionately dubbed by his children as &quot;the old gentleman&quot;) has a plan to restore their fortunes. Used to a life on the run (the Merriots, or rather Robin, were involved in the most recent Jacobin uprising) and of adventure, both Prudence and Robin are beginning to find such a life chafing, esp now that they've met the elegant Sir Anthony Fanshawe and the enchanting Miss Letty Grayson. Both Sir Anthony and Letty are members of the ton, and would look for utter respectability from their potential spouses. Would either ever contemplate tying themselves to Prudence or Robin with their shady pasts and their rascally father? And on top of it all there is a further complication: Prudence is masquerading as a man, and Robin as a woman! How on earth can the Merriot siblings hope to woo and be wooed when they're both pretending to be something that they are not!<br />What I rather liked about &quot;The Masqueraders,&quot; aside from the cleverly done cross dressing subplot, was that Ms Heyer showed us that a hero and heroine could be sensible, quietish and pleasantly good looking and still be the kind of hero and heroine that most readers would thrill to -- heroes and heroines didn't always have to be devastatingly good looking or rakish. Prudence and Sir Anthony are (both) my type of hero and heroine, and are the perfect foils for Letty and Robin -- the better looking and more dramatic couple. And really liking both the hero and heroine, I've found, can go a long way to making a novel a lot more enjoyable. So that, even though the language was at times a bit dated, my whole hearted liking of Prudence, Sir Anthony, Robin and Letty, together with a very swiftly paced and exciting storyline, made &quot;The Masqueraders&quot; a thoroughly fun reread.	2004-04-07
719239:US	52830980	R2JG3Y3Q3OUFCN	0385337221	607191294	A Season for the Dead	Books	4	34	35	N	N	a good and compelling read	The first novel in a series that is to feature police detective Nic Costa, &quot;A Season for the Dead&quot; proved to be a swiftly paced, taut, police thriller that kept me happily engrossed until I reached the last page. <br />While the August heat wave bakes the city of Rome (and the few locals left in the city), university professor Sara Farenese sits coolly in the Vatican Library Reading Room perusing Apicius. But unexpected violence soon rocks her remote academic world when a colleague, Stefano Rinaldi, bursts into the room with a gun and a bag. Even as Sara watches, horrorstruck, Stefano flings the contents of the bag on her desk, announces that &quot;the blood of martyrs is the seed of the Church,&quot; and is killed by the panic stricken Swiss Guards. But this is just the first in a series of increasingly horrifically violent murders. Hampered by Vatican politics (the Vatican is treated as a separate country and as such the Roman police have no jurisdiction there and are totally dependent on whatever help -- or non-help -- that the Vatican security will give) the police are hard pressed to figure what's going on and stop the mad killer. For young police detective Nic Costa and his partner, Luca Rossi, first at the scene of Rinaldi's death due to happenstance, this is the case that will change their lives and outlooks forever. Moved by Sara's beauty, remoteness and silent anguish, Nic is further drawn to Sara (much to the dismay of Rossi) when the realization dawns that she is somehow at the center of all the madness that is going on. But Sara refuses to be more forthcoming, and Nic is loathe to push her or to believe the worst. Will he have cause to regret his reluctance? What dark secret is Sara hiding, and how will it impact the investigation?<br />For mystery buffs who enjoy tautly paced thrillers, &quot;A Season for the Dead&quot; will be a real treat. David Hewson has written an intelligent and engrossing mystery novel, that is complex, suspenseful andthat has some truly stunning plot twists. Hewson's ability to describe the city of Rome and the Vatican, and to portray all the various power plays that makes these two cities go 'round is brilliantly done as well. If I had any criticism is was that the main characters (save for Nic's father, Marco and the police pathologist, &quot;crazy&quot; Teresa) are at times very remote and that it is rather difficult to relate to them or to figure out their motivation. However, aside from this one criticism, I found &quot;A Season for the Dead&quot; to be an incredibly intelligent and suspenseful read, and head and shoulders above the other novels that dwell (in a rather fantastical manner sometimes) on Vatican shenanigans and history.	2004-04-05
735665:US	52830980	RY7LJZ6CFU1E3	0312318898	105634657	The Perfumed Sleeve: A Novel (Sano Ichiro Mystery)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	another &quot;unputdownable&quot; installment	It's November of 1694, and Japan is bracing itself for a civil war as the opposing factions headed by wily and corrupt Chamberlain Yanagisawa and Lord Matsudaira (the weak shogun's cousin) struggle for power and control. Both men are busy marshaling their forces and rallying their allies. And each man wants Sano Ichiro, the shogun's most honourable investigator, on his side. But Sano is loath to choose a side even though he realizes that he may end up being friendless and without high ranking friends at a very dangerous time by remaining neutral. And then a very strange thing happens. And old enemy of Sano's and ally of Chamberlain Yanagisawa, Senior Elder Makino, dies. But he leaves a letter for Sano, asking that Sano investigate his death just in case he died because he was assassinated. Honour bound, Sano has no choice but to investigate, and quickly comes to the conclusion that Makino died under suspicious circumstances. Was Makino murdered because of personal reasons, or was his a political murder? The suspects number not only Makino's wife and concubine, but also Chamberlain Yanagisawa and Lord Matsudaira. And even before Sano can begin his investigation, everything becomes twice as complicated when both Yanagisawa and Matsudaira try to implicate the other in the murder, and to menace Sano into carrying out the investigation to their own particular satisfaction. With the stakes so high and the lives of his family at stake, Sano, together with his wife, Reiko (who is still recovering from her horrific experience chronicled in &quot;The Dragon King's Palace&quot;), and his henchman, Hirata, will have to be more canny and resolute than ever as they follow every elusive clue in order to discover who murdered Makino and why, and hopefully, keep their heads in such a precarious and dangerous time...<br />Once again, I found myself glued to the seat, unable to put down this latest Sano Ichiro mystery installment until I had reached the last page. While the mystery was not a very perplexing one, the book still proved to be an engrossing and compelling read. The events unfolded at a swift and almost breath-neck speed, and with each new development, the tension grew. As usual, the character portrayals were vivid and believable, as was the descriptions of Edo, and the historical goings-on of the period. I thoroughly enjoyed &quot;The Perfumed Sleeve&quot; from beginning to end, and count it as a worthy installment in a simply brilliant historical mystery series. Indeed, I count Laura Joh Rowland's Sano Ichiro mystery novels as one of my top five favourite historical mystery series to be written by an American authour.	2004-03-23
740127:US	52830980	RQ9139BMJE5BS	1932112081	32060590	In Your Face (Lily Pascale Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	a riveting and engrossing read	University lecturer, Lily Pascale, hasn't heard from her old university friend, Jess Mallone, in years, so she's rather surprised when she receives a frantic 'phone call from Jess begging for help. Jess is now a freelance journalist based in London. Her latest article, (which she sold to Smile magazine) was about stalking -- about three women who were all stalked, and how they suffered, coped and survived their experiences. But on the very day that the magazine hits the streets, all three women are found murdered. Now the police are looking to Jess for answers and Jess is feeling guilty and scared. Having read about Lily's successful exploits in solving a crime that the police were unable to (&quot;Dead Clever&quot;), Jess begs Lily to come down to London and to help her sort out this mess. With the summer term having just ended, and needing space and time in order to sort out her feeling for colleague, Fenn, who's getting married soon, Lily is nothing loath to leave Devon for London. But she arrives to find Jess missing and the police's number one suspect. Feeling that the girl she knew couldn't be capable of murder, Lily sets out to discover what the three victims had in common that would have made them some madman's target, and to discover what has become of Jess. But as she tries to sort her way through all the misleading clues, lies and incongruities, Lily begins to feel as if she is being stalked herself. Could the killer be on her trial?<br />Scarlett Thomas has written an incredibly swiftly paced mystery novel, that also possess believable and credible characters and a supremely clever and intriguing plot. In fact mystery fans may be reminded of Sarah Lacey's excellent Leah Hunter novels. Like the Leah Hunter mystery series, Thomas's Lily Pascale books are fresh, vibrant, modern and loads of fun to read. In short, &quot;In Your Face&quot; is a treat not to be missed, and I'm truly indebted to the I Love a Mystery newsletter website for having turned me ontothis incredibly riveting find.	2004-03-19
742706:US	52830980	R25C0N7JBYLFZG	0060004746	955373019	Murder Walks the Plank (Death on Demand Mysteries, No. 15)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	entertaning and intriguing	Looking for a quick and light read, yet one that is still compelling and intriguing? Look no further: Carolyn Hart's latest Death on Demand mystery novel is just the ticket and is a worthy installment to this wonderful series.<br />Annie Darling is very excited about her latest project: Broward Rock's very first mystery cruise, a one evening event that will take place in the waters just off the island. She's written a mystery play, where participants will try and figure out who the culprit is, a treasure hunt (complete with maps) and provided the prizes. And with good food and a group of people dressed up as their favourite detectives, determined to have fun and enjoy themselves, the night should be a guaranteed success. But halfway through the festivities, sweet natured, kindly and local do-gooder, Pamela Potts, falls overboard. She is quickly rescued but fails to regain consciousness. Annie is sure that her friend was pushed; unfortunately, the acting chief of police does not share Annie's conviction, and writes off Pamela as a jumper. So Anne decides that it is up to her to discover who tried to kill poor, harmless Pamela,a nd why. And together with friends Emma Clyde and Henny Brawley (and of course husband, Max), Annie is determined to find out all...<br />One of the better installment in the Death on Demand mystery series, &quot;Death Walks the Plank&quot; was just what I needed to unwind with -- it was a light and swiftly paced read, intriguing and yet incredibly amusing as well. While the motive for all the deaths seemed fairly obvious, the identity of the murderer took some time to work out (which kept me happy). The plot twists were ingenious and Carolyn Hart does her bit to provide readers with enough red herring suspects to keep things humming. All in all, a very enjoyable and entertaining read.	2004-03-17
746494:US	52830980	RJFVA2HISSTIS	0385335806	14152480	Telling Lies to Alice	Books	5	2	2	N	N	a fantastic read	Whether or not you will be able to truly enjoy this novel may boil down to personal taste and inclination. Speaking for myself, I thought that &quot;Telling Lies to Alice&quot; was arguably one of the best suspenseful novels I've read so far this year.<br />For a while, Alice's and Lenny's relationship could have been described as one of love, laughter, glamour and alcohol. She was a cocktail waitress at a private club (a club very reminiscent of the Playboy Bunny club); while he was the Lenny Maxted of the Maxted and Flowers comedy team -- a much sought after and up and coming comedy team. That is until tragedy strikes: Lenny commits suicide on an earl's estate in the country, just days after he and Alice get engaged. (Alice discovers the body along with a suicide note addressed to her begging for forgiveness.) Now, six years later (and one marriage and divorce later), Lenny bursts into Alice's life again in a frightening and unexpected manner.<br />Alice is now living in the country, in the cottage that Lenny had bought and left her. She leads a very quiet and recluse-like life, and she's had practically no contact with anyone from her past with Lenny. So that she's rather surprised when Lenny's comedy partner, Jack Flowers, turns up at her doorstep asking if she can put him up for a while. Soon, however, Alice's surprise turns to unease when she discovers that Jack is not himself -- he's drinking far too much and seems to be completely on edge. And then she discovers that he's been hiding her mail and trying to keep her from reading the newspapers. What is Jack trying to hide? Alice tries to stealthily figure out what Jack is up to from memory and the bits of information at her disposal but the picture that emerges fills her with fear and horror. What should she do now? And just how safe is she with Jack? Suddenly Alice's quiet, off the beaten track haven doesn't seem so desirable after all...<br />Once I got past chapter 2, and fell in with the rhythm of the prose style and pace, I found that I really couldn't put this book down at all. The pacing was swift and smooth, and was one of the reasons that the book turned out (for me at least) to be an unputdownable one. Another reason the book was so engrossing was because of the narrative style/voice. We see things almost exclusively from Alice's point-of-view. And Alice is not your usual dectective/suspense heroine. She's an ex-bunny, a bit of a good time girl, and someone who's used to seeing things only at the surface. So that &quot;watching&quot; her connect all the dots and remembering things from the past and realizing their true connotations became very compelling indeed. So that while it's true that there aren't that many shocking plot twists, there is that &quot;on-the-edge&quot; feel about this book, which was one reason why I would classify &quot;Telling Lies to Alice&quot; as a suspenseful and thrilling read. All in all, a read not to be missed. Laura Wilson is a brilliant and skillful authour. And I do hope that &quot;Telling Lies to Alice&quot; will be remembered when the Edgar nominations come up next year.	2004-03-14
750113:US	52830980	R2CCGI5ANDWYO2	0451210344	122508865	Kiss of the Highwayman (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	a truly enjoyable and satisfying read	A follow-up to &quot;Miranda's Mistake,&quot; The Kiss of the Highwayman&quot; proved to be an entertaining and vastly romantic read -- the kind of book that leaves you with a smile on your face long after you've finished reading it, even if in order to fully appreciate this novel you may have to have read (and remembered) certain plot developments from &quot;Miranda's Mistake.&quot;<br />With the recent and accidental death of his elder brother, Brian Warren, has become the new Lord Cherrington, the Earl of Cherring. But even though he should be spending time putting the affairs of the family estate back in order, Brian is determined to bring a group of 'gentlemen' highwaymen to justice because he holds these men responsible for his brother's untimely death. Through sheer patience and perseverance, Brian manages to infiltrate the gang, and feels that he is making some small headway into discovering the identity of all the members of the gang, when the highwaymen hold up the carriage of Lady Rothwell and her stepdaughter, Artemis.<br />Lady Rothwell and Artemis are on their way to London for Artemis's London debut. And for safety's sake, have left all their money and jewelry at home; but the one thing they overlooked leaving behind was the Rothwell betrothal ring, the very item that the leader of the 'gentlemen' highwaymen tries to seize. But not before Artemis makes a brave stand that earns her both Brian's respect and esteem. Before he knows it, he has kissed the courageous young lady ardently and rashly whispered to her that the ring will be returned. Can Brian fulfill his promise to Artemis? And will he be able to maintain his charade, esp once the festivities of the London season are in full swing, and he meets the one young lady who has both piqued his interest and his heart...<br />Without fully going into plot spoilers, all I will say is that the &quot;Kiss of a Highwaymen&quot; was a thoroughly enjoyable read not only because of its interesting storyline but also because the authour makes the hero and heroine fall in love with each other not so much because of their physical attributes, but because of their character traits. This really made me believe that Artemis's and Brian's love was true and was one that would last forever. Brian was a wonderfully charming hero; while even though Artemis was molded along the lines of a more feisty minded heroine, she was NOT (thank goodness) one of those annoyingly silly, idiotic ones, and was actually intelligent and courageous. You could see why these two characters were meant for each other. The pacing of events was swift, and the character development for the most part was rather well done. In only one area did I feel shortchanged, and that was with the villain of the piece. I got the feeling that a lot of the villain's character and motives may have been better explained in &quot;Miranda's Mistake;&quot; and while I had read that novel, I don't really recollect this particular character all that well. I do think that the authour should have spent a little more time explaining this particular's character's motivation. But that may be because I'm a mystery buff and need for every knot to be untangled fully. All in all, however, &quot;Kiss of the Highwayman&quot; was a tremendously fun read that most readers should find to be immensely satisfying.	2004-03-11
751782:US	52830980	R3IMWGAF2PXDI8	0425194833	704169435	Miss Wonderful (Carsington Family Series)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	an engaging and entertaining read	For as long as he can remember, Alistair Carsington, has caused his father, the Earl of Hargate, a great deal of trouble and money. At first, it was his tendency to fall in love at the drop of a hat; but now, since his return from the Peninsula Wars, it is the tremendous amount of money that he has spent on clothes. This time, however, the earl has had enough, and has issued an ultimatum: marry an heiress in six months or else the earl will settle the money he would have left Alistair's younger brothers on Alistair himself. Fortunately for Alistair, his best friend, Gordmor has a scheme. Gormor would like to build a canal that would allow him to move the coal from his coal mines more easily. And he invites Alistair to be a partner in this venture. Alistair's part will be to persuade a few land owners as to the desirability of the scheme. And so, even though it is the middle of winter, Alistair makes for the wilds of Derbyshire, only to find that the biggest stumbling block to his plans and riches lies in the shape of a maddeningly attractive but unfashionably dressed gentlewoman, Mirabel Oldridge, who has been running her father's estate for more than a decade now. This time, Alistair is determined to keep his mind on the prize and not fall in love. But the distracting Mirabel has sneakily stolen his heart. Will Alistair be able to keep his head planted firmly on his shoulders, or will love make his forget his resolve?<br />After what seems like a very long absence, Loretta Chase is back again, and all I can say is that the wait has been well worth it. &quot;Miss Wonderful&quot; is one of the wittiest and more charming novels I've read in a long while. The storyline is a basic one (hero meets heroine, both are powerfully attracted to each other, but there is a stumbling block to their developing relationship -- they both want different things), so that what really sets &quot;Miss Wonderful&quot; head and shoulders above other Regency-era romance novels of similar stripe, are 1) the prose style (witty and humourous); and 2) her engaging character portrayals of Alistair and Mirabel. Both characters are likable and sympathetic. While Mirabel was a strong, intelligent and resolute heroine, she definitely was not one of those feisty, totty-headed and bad tempered heroines who wouldn't be able to think her way out of a paper-bag but who seem (for some reason or the other) to people this genre an awful lot! While Alistair was a gem of a hero: honest and passionate and immensely nice. Both characters want an end result that seems to be in direct opposition of each other, and the authour's even handed stand on the issue of the canal, so that you got to see both sides of this arguement, made the novel all the more compelling and interesting. All in all, &quot;Miss Wonderful&quot; proved to be an engaging, entertaining and passionate romance novel, and if you're looking for a well written and wonderfully romantic novel to unwind with, I'd urge checking &quot;Miss Wonderful&quot; out.	2004-03-10
756908:US	52830980	R157VEJ7H6SAF6	0821776185	520560218	Lord Pierson Reforms (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	nice read	When Dante Delacourt, Viscount Pierson, catches sight of the delectable Lady Rowena Revington as he is trying to make his way home after a night spent drinking heavily at the Bacchanal Club, he firmly believes that Fate has sent him a message of sorts. Then and there, Dante decides to change his ways, to eschew his hitherto rakish ways, and to become more responsible and respectable; for Dante believes that the Lady Rowena is the very embodiment of perfection and purity, and so has decided to do all he humanly can in order to be worthy of his &quot;angel.&quot; Little does Dante realize that Lady Rowena is actually a very spoilt and autocratic young lady, and a very canny flirt. Or that employed as Lady Rowena's chaperone is a sweet tempered and steadfast young lady (Miss Amy) who embodies all the qualities that Dante believes the Lady Rowena possesses; a young lady who has, furthermore, lost her heart to him! Will Dante realize that Amy is the real prize? Or will he continue to moon after Lady Rowena, thus breaking Amy's heart?<br />While &quot;Lord Pierson Reforms&quot; revolves around a much used plot-line, what lifts this novel above the usual are the bits where Amy grows a backbone and tells Lady Rowena off, the developing bond between Dante and Amy, and the portrayal of the friendship that exists between Dante and his best friend, Lord Bainbridge. While sweet natured, Amy is not a doormat, and I really liked that Amy figured out early on in the book how to deal with Lady Rowena, and that she was not shy about wielding what little power she had. I also liked that the authour allowed us to see why Dante and Amy were a perfect match; and why although Dante and Bainbridge were such polar opposites in temperament, they were still best friends. But I was disappointed that Donna Simpson did not go into why Lady Rowena and her father seemed to have no relationship with each other, and that things with Bainbridge's sister, a character I really liked, were left hanging.Perhaps there is a book or two there? (Hint, hint). On the whole, though, if you're looking for a nice, non-taxing and enjoyable book to unwind with, &quot;Lord Pierson Reforms&quot; may be just the ticket.	2004-03-06
758320:US	52830980	R1N7ETTG2D0NV5	0451208595	606864129	Wedded Bliss	Books	5	6	7	N	N	a gem of a read	Robert Rothmore, the Earl of Rockford, is a very important and successful diplomat, always busy promoting his country's interests; so that it is absolutely essential that his days not get bogged down by tedious little details concerning his estate, his tenants and his two sons. That is until he receives news that his latest steward has run off with money from the estate, a Rembrandt painting and his 40 year old sister. Rockford immediately makes for Rock Hill, where he discovers that things are in even further disarray, and that his younger son, William, is now living with the widowed Mrs. Alissa Henning and her family in a badly thatched cottage. Even though he is loath to do so, it doesn't take Rockford long to realize that what he needs is a new wife -- a capable and loving woman, who would be perfectly happy to take care of his sons, estate and tenants -- someone exactly like Mrs. Henning in other words. And so he offers Alissa a marriage of convenience: money, security and his name in exchange for her agreeing to be caretaker. With few options open to her, Alissa has no choice but to accept. But the very thought of a cold and unloving marriage to a very stiff and impeccable Rockford chills Alissa. And she begins to wonder if she can change the state of her marriage, if she can she influence her new husband enough so that he will look for love and companionship from her instead of elsewhere? <br />While not one of Barbara Metzger's laugh-a-minute Regencies, &quot;Wedded Bliss&quot; was still a gem of a read. It possessed a wonderfully grown-up story-line that dwelt on how two strangers who are both intrigued and attracted to each other, work through all their problems and issues and so manage achieve their happy ever-after ending. The heroine, Alissa, was likable, easy to relate to and empathize with; the hero, on the other hand, was so incredibly high-handed and arrogant that it really did take a while to warm up to him. Fortunately, Barbara Metzger does allowus to see glimpses of the warm hearted person Rockford could be if given the right encouragement, so that I did find myself rooting for Alissa and Rockford to work through all their various issues. Swiftly paced and thoughtfully executed, &quot;Wedded Bliss&quot; may not be a sensual read, but it was (for me) a perfect read.	2004-03-05
759078:US	52830980	R21JSWBV4Q9EVA	0060543132	135514584	England's Perfect Hero (Lessons in Love, Book 3)	Books	4	20	22	N	N	my vote for best in the trilogy	A little more than a year ago, Lucinda Barrett and her two best friends, Georgianna Halley and Evie Ruddick, drew up lists on how they thought a true gentleman should behave. Georgiana and Evie then proceeded to select two offenders in order to instruct them on good behaviour. But both Georgiana and Evie ended up marrying their &quot;pupils&quot; (&quot;The Rake&quot; &amp; &quot;London's Perfect Scoundrel&quot;). Now it's Lucinda's turn. Knowing full well that these &quot;lessons&quot; in good behaviour may well result in her marrying her &quot;pupil,&quot; Lucinda has settled on Lord Geoffrey Newcombe. Like her friends' husbands, Geoffrey is a handsome and incredibly arrogant, and much in need of instruction; but more importantly, Geoffrey is a war hero, and exactly the sort of gentleman that her father, General Augustus Barrett, could countenance as a son-in-law. But just as Lucinda is about to start her campaign, Lucinda begins an unlikely friendship with Georgiana's brother-in-law, Robert. Like Geoffrey, Robert also served in the Peninsula Wars; but he's returned a wreck of a man, prone to panic attacks, and has become quite the recluse, shunning both Society and even his family. As Robert and Lucinda begin to spend more time together, Lucinda comes to the realisation that it is Robert and not Geoffrey that occupies her thoughts and heart. But what can she do? Settle on an uncomplicated and comfortable life with Geoffrey with her father's complete blessings, or risk everything for a complicated and brooding wreck like Robert?<br />Slightly more complex and less humerous than the other two installments in the Lessons in Love trilogy, I liked &quot;England's Perfect Hero&quot; best. And that's because both the hero and heroine were likable and engaging, and because Suzanne Enoch didn't follow the pattern of the first two books and went in a completely different direction. Usually, with a series, books begin to sound like a formula after a while. But you couldn'tsay that about &quot;England's Perfect Hero.&quot; The &quot;Hero&quot; in the title doesn't even refer to the real hero of the novel! I also liked the fact that one of the obstacles to Lucinda's and Robert's happiness was Lucinda's concern that her future spouse and her father like each other and get along. Not very many romance novels ever address this issue realistically, and I thought that the authour hit just the right note here. The other thing I liked about this novel was that characters from the first two (Georgianna, Evie and their respective husbands) play an integral part in helping Lucinda and Robert achieve their happily ever-after ending. That also was a nice touch. So that even though there were a few howlingly funny editorial mistakes, and the whole theft subplot was incredibly weak, I still enjoyed this novel enough to award 4 stars.	2004-03-04
761610:US	52830980	R37N6U7BIASZ4T	0451211529	344946269	Murder Can Botch Up Your Birthday (Desiree Shapiro Mystery #11)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	a nice read	When 16 year old Vicky Pirrelli begs private detective Desiree Shapiro to help prove that her father, Victor, did not murder his mistress, Christina Trent, what can big hearted Desiree do but agree? However, proving Victor's innocence will not be easy: to begin with the murder actually occurred 10 years ago. Which means that whatever evidence there was could well be non-exsistant now, and whatever eye witnesses there were to the murder (and any other viable suspects) could either have died or else simply disappeared. And there is the fact that everyone else under the sun, and this includes Victor's own mother and brother, believes that Victor had actually murdered Christina. Desiree, however, is determined to prove Victor's innocence for Vicky's sake. But as the list of suspects begins to shrink, so too does Desiree's hopes of achieving a happy result...<br />I have long been a fan of this series, mostly because Selma Eichler's wonderful creation, Desiree Shapiro. Desiree is sharp, funny, honest and kind -- these traits are what colours, shades and propels the books in this series forwards and onwards, thus making the books swift and enjoyable reading. And &quot;Murder Can Botch Your Birthday&quot; is no exception to the rule. The mystery subplot may not be all that suspenseful, but it defnitely is intriguing, and does possess a few surprises.So that if you're looking for a nice, light mystery novel to unwind with, &quot;Murder Can Botch Your Birthday&quot; will definitely do.	2004-03-03
762904:US	52830980	R12TREC8LUBD6Q	1401301029	889024929	An Unpardonable Crime	Books	5	17	17	N	N	a fantastic read	This is all that I' going to &quot;say&quot; about the plot of &quot;An Unpardonable Crime:&quot; that it is set in 1819, and that it opens with our narrator, Thomas Shields, (a young man of education and who has managed to survive the peninsula war, but who has little money and fewer expectations), explaining how he managed to secure a job as an under usher (a sort of tutor) at the Reverend Mr. Bransby's school, and how he came to become so intimately involved in the affairs of the Wavenhoe, Frants and Carswall families, death, greed and murder. To say more, would only detract from the overall enjoyment for anyone who's not yet read this skillfully crafted novel. Enough to say that if you enjoy reading Victorian-era suspenseful novels (like those written by Wilkie Collins, for example), you're bound to enjoy &quot;An Unpardonable Crime.&quot; As with many of the novels of similar genre, Andrew Taylor has successfully coloured his novel with a dark and almost menacing atmosphere, added enough intriguing and suspenseful plot twists, and peopled it with characters that both engaged and filled me with loathing. In other words, this was a riveting read. Andrew Taylor did a fantastic job of making England of the early 19th century real and vivid. &quot;An Unpardonable Crime&quot; won the CWA Historical Dagger for 2003, and it definitely deserves the award. I picked up the book after dinner, and had to force myself to put the novel down and go to bed -- it was that &quot;unputdownable!&quot; All in all, a rousing 5 stars!	2004-03-02
765855:US	52830980	R1S7W78WG01E9O	0758201524	710174763	Fudge Cupcake Murder (Hannah Swensen Mysteries)	Books	3	4	8	N	N	an entertaining but &quot;light&quot; read	I'm a fan of the Hannah Swenson mystery novels, but I have to admit, I kept on reading &quot;Fudge Cupcake Murder&quot; because I enjoyed the interactions between the characters and because I wanted to know if Hannah had made up her mind as to which one of her beaux (handsome police detective Mike Kingston who makes her pulses race, or dependable dentist Norman Rhodes who seems to be her soul-mate in so many ways) she was going to settle on. If you're looking for an enjoyable &quot;light&quot; read that is entertaining and will keep you absorbing in what's going on, than you'll enjoy &quot;Fudge Cupcake Murder&quot; -- esp if you enjoy reading about the creation of different kinds of cookies/biscuits; if, however, you're looking for a mystery novel that will keep you glued to the edge of your seat, that's suspenseful and engrossing, than you might want to try something else.<br />In between trying to vet all the submissions for the Lake Eden cookbook; teach a class on desert making; juggle two boyfriends (even if one is currently out of town); support her sister, Andrea, who is heavily pregnant and whose policeman husband (Bill) is running for the position as sheriff in the upcoming elections, Hannah must now also fit in a murder investigation! The incumbent sheriff, who was running for reelection, has been found murdered, and Bill, is suspected of the crime because of the angry words and threats that the two men exchanged just hours before the murder. With Bill's reputation and election bid on line (and Andrea's sanity: a suspended Bill is driving Andrea 'round the bend), Hannah will have to put her detective hat on again in order to discover who murdered the sheriff and clear Bill's name even if it does upset Mike Kingston...<br />Mystery-wise, everything (the clues and suspects) only really came together in the last quarter of the book. Up until then, what really moved the novel forward was the dynamics between the characters and the snappy and breezy dialogue. &quot;Fudge Cupcake Murder&quot; was entertaining and enjoyable -- it may not be the mystery read of the year or month, but it was fun. I especially enjoyed Joanne Fluke's vivid portrayal of what life with an intelligent and stubborn cat is like. So, if you're looking for a good, light and easy read to pass the time on a trip or rainy weekend, this just might do.	2004-02-29
770499:US	52830980	R2VAWT34Q4DMO7	0743470036	899097231	A Deal With the Devil	Books	4	19	21	N	N	an intense read	While I enjoyed &quot;A Deal with the Devil&quot; quite a bit, I feel as if I should add a warning: the initial sexual encounters between the heroine (Aubrey Montford) and the hero (Lord Walrafen) do make for rather uncomfortable reading.<br />Aubrey Montford is on the run and desperate, and she needs to find a place where she and her son, Iain, can lie low and be left in peace. And so Aubrey answers an advertisement for a housekeeper at Castle Cardow in Somerset. Cardow actually belongs to Lord Walrafen, however because he hates the estate he rarely goes there, and he has installed his uncle, Major Lorimer (a veteran of the Peninsula Wars), there to oversee things. Using the Major's past relationship with her father, Aubrey secures the job for herself, and so safety for Iain and herself. But things at Cardow are truly desperate. The Major is a drunk and suffers from bouts of depression, and has allowed the castle and estate to fall into ruin. Aubrey has her work cut out for her. And slowly, over the course of three years, Aubrey is able to transform the estate into a successful income earning one. And then one day everything changes: the Major is found dead from a gunshot wound in his study, and the local JP suspects Aubrey of the crime. Even worse, Lord Walrafen turns up intent on discovering who killed his uncle, and looks to Aubrey for answers. For a young lady with a great many secrets to hide, all this attention is almost too much to bear...<br />Because of his miserable childhood, Lord Walrafen has always hated Cardow and has done his best to ignore its very existence. Of course he never dreamed that he would have to contend with an efficient, intelligent and sarcastic housekeeper who seems bent on peppering him with letters about his estate. And now said housekeeper is suspected of having had a hand in his uncle's murder. But Walrafen cannot believe that Aubrey is a murderess. Definitely she's hiding something, but a guilty conscience at having shot the Major is not one of them. Walrafen is determined to uncover all of Aubrey's secrets. But is his detetermination  because he is intent on discovering what happened to his uncle or because of the almost obsessive attraction he feels for Aubrey...<br />In spite of the fact that it almost seems as if Lord Walrafen forces himself upon Aubrey initially, I rather enjoyed &quot;A Deal with the Devil.&quot; And this completely due to the authour's obvious talent. Just when you're bracing yourself for the disappointment in realizing that the hero is another one of those &quot;I-must-have-what-I-want-when-I-want-it&quot; types, Liz Carlyle completely turns things around by making him realize (early on in the book, mind you) the error of his ways. So that in spite of the fact that &quot;A Deal with the Devil&quot; does indeed revolve round many well known plot devices, everything still seems fresh and vital. I cannot remember the last time a hero trusted a heroine implicitly enough to wait for her to confide in him. All in all, I'd vote &quot;A Deal with the Devil&quot; as a stellar 4 star read because of its memorable heroine (brave, strong and honest), likable hero and poignant love story. The attraction that Aubrey and Walrafen feel for each other is quite apparent and electric; but more striking still is the authour's stark accounting of the conflicting emotions, fear and confusion that Aubrey feels about the attraction she feels for Walrafen and what she should do about it. A good read.	2004-02-25
775080:US	52830980	R3QH8QP792F5B2	0553584901	401419305	Shady Lady	Books	3	0	0	N	N	a good if not very suspenseful read	Jo Chesney, the publisher of the Avon Journal is worried: her good friend, Lady Chloe Webberly, who also happens to pen the journal's society column as Lady Tellall, is missing. If that's not enough, Waldo Bowman, a gentleman who's sexual and romantic exploits is being broadcasted by Lady Tellall via the journal for all to read, visits the Journal to demand 1) the identity of Lady Tellall, and 2) that Jo stops publishing his affairs. Incensed at the man's effrontery and at his attempts to intimidate her, Jo sends Waldo off with a flea in his ear. And when, later that night, Jo discovers that her office at the Journal has been broken into, she cannot help but wonder if Waldo was involved. Did Waldo break into her office in order to discover who Lady Tellall is? For while Jo is doing her best to ignore the powerful feelings and sensations that Waldo arouses in her, the one thing she cannot ignore is the feeling disappointment that Waldo would have stooped so low...<br />Waldo Bowman, a war hero and man about town, never expected the publisher of the Avon Journal to be a woman, and an extremely attractive one at that. And he never expected said woman to be one of the few who would actually look her nose down at him either. But Waldo firmly intends to discover who Lady Tellall is, and to stop her from publishing further anecdotes about his doings. Waldo's plan is to sweet-talk his way into Jo's good graces. Instead he finds himself becoming deeply involved in Jo's affairs and in her attempts to find her missing friend. And in the process finds himself falling quite desperately in love with Jo. But Jo seems to be still clinging to her dead husband's memory -- and she also seems to have a truly bad opinion of him. Can Waldo impress on Jo that he's not the useless fribble she seems to think he is? And can he persuade her to let go of her husband's memory and to love him instead?<br />While there are really few surprises in &quot;Shady Lady&quot; -- the authour uses all thestock devices of the genre -- the novel still ends up being an above average read because of the authour's wonderful portrayal of the heroine and because of the compelling manner in which she charts the growing attraction that Jo and Waldo feel for each other. These two factors alone make &quot;Shady Lady&quot; a 4 star read. (Jo is clever, determined and courageous -- definitely not one of those too silly for words strong minded feisty heroines who's survival you really being to wonder about!) So, that even though for a novel with a small mystery subplot (where is Chloe and why is she being hunted?) the identity of the villain is revealed somewhere in the first few chapters, I still found myself happily engrossed with this novel. All in all, a good read.	2004-02-22
776534:US	52830980	R1UFQPKBK2EJMR	1400060737	595261029	The Birth of Venus	Books	5	8	9	N	N	beyond 5 stars...	&quot;The Birth of Venus&quot; is a complex and riveting tale about a young girl's rite of passage from childhood to adulthood during a time of great political upheaval in Renaissance Florence. It is a very well written novel, possessing a compelling and lyrical prose style, an intelligent and sympathetic heroine (Alessandra Cecchi), and is smoothly and swiftly paced -- three vital components that &quot;hooked&quot; me and ensured that I finished the book in one sitting.<br />Alessandra Cecchi is the youngest child of a very prosperous cloth merchant; and she's also the cleverest and the most precocious. Fortunately for Alessandra, she's living in a rather enlightened city (Florence) during the reign of Lorenzo de Medici. As such, learning languages like Latin, devouring texts by Aristotle and Dante and an appreciation of the arts is much encouraged, even amongst girls. Unfortunately for Alessandra convention must still be observed: conventions that mean that rather than actually learning to draw and paint from a master, Alessandra must resign herself to the fact that her fate is tied to that of a respectable marriage and children. <br />But when Alessandra is almost fifteen, her father brings back from his trip up north, a young artist of prodigious talent to decorate the family chapel. Alessandra is immediately drawn to the young man's strangeness and his talent. Just then however, Alessandra's family arranges an advantageous marriage for her to a much older and more sophisticated man. Her new husband promises her more freedom in exchange for the wifely duty of producing an heir. For a young lady who has always chafed at the constraints placed on her, such a promise is everything. But Fate (and God) seems intent on testing Alessandra, for with the death of Lorenzo de Medici, comes the end of the Medici reign over Florence and the beginning of the zealot monk Savonarola's influence over the citizens of the city. Savonorola who has his own beliefs about the corruptinfluence of art and books and a woman's place in society... For Alessandra the pursuit of art and happiness will have to take a back-seat as she tries to navigate the treacherous waters of the time in order to keep her family safe...<br />&quot;The Birth of Venus&quot; is a very riveting and absorbing read. The authour's grasp and love of the art, architecture, literature and history of the times was obvious and evident -- Renaissance Florence glitters from the pages for all to see and appreciate. As does the authour's most brilliant creation, the book's heroine, Alessandra Cecchi. Intelligent, vibrant, arrogant, quick-witted, braver and not always likable, Alessandra is like the city of Florence itself, unique and engaging, and is what make's reading this book so compelling and such a joy. You can believe all the rave reviews that this novel has garnered, &quot;The Birth of Venus&quot; deserves them. I truly believe that &quot;The Birth of Venus&quot; will turn out to be one of the best historical novels to be published this year.	2004-02-21
779481:US	52830980	R7QY7Q8JW25AD	0451210077	962596355	A Season for Love (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	20	20	N	N	an interesting read	For eight years, Lady Caroline Carlington, the daughter of the powerful Duke of Longville, lived in the country with her mother (the Duchess of Longville) in seclusion and in anonymity. But now, with her mother's death, and her father's recent marriage to the dashing Eugenia Wharton, Lady Caroline finds herself suddenly having to deal with the London social scene. For a young lady who has been brought up to scorn the frivolous ways of Society, Lady Caroline has a lot to contend with; but add to that the fact that her relationship with her new stepmother started on the wrong foot, and the fact that she seems to be strangely attracted to her stepmother's brother, Anthony Norvile, and one begins to wonder if Lady Caroline will be able to cope at all...<br />I really wanted to like &quot;A Season for Love.&quot; It seemed to contain all the ingredients necessary for a good thoughtful read: a young lady who has been brought up not to trust the men of her class (esp her father); her feelings and experiences at being suddenly thrust into Society; and her confused feelings for new stepmother -- more esp, her stepmother's brother, her new &quot;uncle.&quot; And yet there were a few &quot;niggles,&quot; that prevented me from rating &quot;A Season for Love&quot; as a truly excellent read. For starters though, don't trust the plot synopsis at the back of the book. For while Lady Caroline was one of the book's focal points, the novel really focuses on the budding relationship and romance that develops between the Duke of Longville and his new duchess. I rather the duke and duchess, and felt sympathetic for all that they were going through, but since I had bought the book on the notion that the book was going to focus on Lady Caroline, I felt a little shortchanged. But truthfully speaking this should not be classified as a &quot;niggle.&quot; So what really got to me? The entire subplot involving the disgruntled anarchists. The book already had two subplots that needed a lot ofattention: the subplot involving Lady Caroline, and the other one involving the Duke and Duchess of Longville. And the subplot involving Lady Caroline and all that she was going through as she tried to navigate her way through the ton, work out her feelings for Anthony, her father and her new stepmother, was already, in my opinion, suffering at the expense of the other subplot. So that this minor third subplot involving the three angry and dissatisfied anarchists took up far too many pages -- was this subplot even necessary, I wonder? If only the book had focused more on Lady Caroline and her feelings at having a new stepmother to contend with, the confusion she feels about her attraction to Anthony, and her feelings about her relationship with her once estranged father and being forced to endure a season ... the book then would have been a more enjoyable read for me. Nonetheless, I'd still rate &quot;A Season for Love&quot; as a truly interesting 3 star read.	2004-02-19
786314:US	52830980	R2LDLIG017JODC	0743246071	237333289	The Queen's Fool	Books	5	33	37	N	N	fantastic and worthwhile read	Philippa Gregory (authour of &quot;The Other Boleyn Girl&quot;) returns to turbulent Tudor England in her latest novel, &quot;The Queen's Fool.&quot; This time, our narrator-guide is a young Jewish girl, Hannah Green, who together with her father, has fled Spain and the Inquisition, for England. Here, they have taken great pains to live quietly and to show that they are fervent Lutherans, all the while practicing their faith in secret. That is until a chance encounter with the mysterious John Dee changes the course of their lives forever.<br />Hannah and her father have opened a bookshop, where Hannah (unlike most girls of her age) has been working at dressed as a boy and acting as her father's apprentice. One day, however, young Robert Dudley and his tutor, John Dee, come to the shop; and in the course of things, discover that Hannah has the 'sight.' Suddenly Hannah's future changes dramatically: where marriage to a distant cousin seemed to have been her fate, she's now dragooned into the service of the Dudleys, who plan to use her 'sight' for their own means. And soon Hannah finds herself torn on all sides -- strangely drawn to her new master, Robert Dudley and yet missing her father dreadfully; and not wanting to be confined to playing the role of mere wife and mother, and yet not wanting to close the door on that option either. Hannah is confused and fearful about her future. But not even in her wildest dreams would she envision the part she would play in the fortunes of the Tudors...<br />I made the mistake of picking up this book just before going to sleep. Such was the sheer brilliance of &quot;The Queens' Fool&quot; that I had to finish the book in one sitting. What a compelling and engrossing read this novel proved to be! And what a heroine Gergory has created in Hannah! The authour did a fantastic job in 'fleshing out' the many sides of Hannha's character, thus making her both complex and sympathetic. Philippa Gregory also did a simply magnificent job of bringing to life the England of the mid 16th century with all it's brutality and turbulence, as well as it's vibrancy and colour. With exquistely drawn character, easy and swift pacing, and a wonderfully lyrical prose style, &quot;The Queen's Fool&quot; proved to both a joy and a pleasure to read. And whether or not you're a fan of historical novels, &quot;The Queen's Fool&quot; is a must read.bringing to life the England of the mid 16th century with all it's brutality and turbulence, as well as it's vibrancy and colour. With exquistely drawn character, easy and swift pacing, and a wonderfully lyrical prose style, &quot;The Queen's Fool&quot; proved to both a joy and a pleasure to read. And whether or not you're a fan of historical novels, &quot;The Queen's Fool&quot; is a must read.	2004-02-13
792711:US	52830980	R2CXUCXI1T6U73	0316095648	223134214	A Question of Blood: An Inspector Rebus Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	absolutely brilliant	All of South Queensferry is in shock when Lee Herdman walks into a private school (Port Edgar Academy) one day and opens fire in the student lounge killing two boys one day. Since Herdman was an ex-army man, everyone assumes that he just snapped one day. However, the police still need to try and establish what chain of events led to the shooting. So an overworked DI Bobby Hogan who's in charge of the case decides to draft Rebus onto the team. Rebus however is being investigated because of his connection in the suspicious death of an ex-con (with a tendency for violence) who was stalking Rebus's partner DS Siobhan Clarke for a while now. Relieved to have something else on their minds aside from the impending internal investigation, both Rebus and Siobhan throw themselves completely into investigating Herdman's past and everyone he had a relationship with. But with the military police showing a sudden and profound interest in the case, Rebus begins to wonder about what's really going on, esp when he discovers the ties Herdman had with certain prominent families of South Queensferry...<br />Ian Rankin comes up trumps again! And while this latest Rebus installment is not the usual fare (as others have noted it's not much of a whodunit kind of novel), it still made for compelling and engrossing reading. Ian Rankin is an absolute wonder at creating scenes, characters and atmosphere, and coming up with a story that's unique and complex. So that even though I did begin to see which way the investigation was going, and even though the ending didn't really explain completely why the shooter did what he did, I would still rate this latest Rebus novel as a 5 star read. As usual there is Rankin's clever and witty prose/dialogue to enjoy; and I rather liked that you really got to enjoy and appreciate the good and close relationship that Rebus and Siobhan have -- a friendship that's affectionate but (thank goodness) free of sexual tensions. So yes, this is a book worth buying andrecommending as an excellent read.	2004-02-09
795042:US	52830980	RI9P0NMCZ0AJZ	0892967889	471554992	Death of a Poison Pen (Hamish Macbeth Mysteries, No. 20)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	a real treat	The villagers of Lochdubh and nearby Braikie are being plagued with a rash of poison pen letters. And while the letters seem silly (many of the claims seem to be absolutely ludicrous), Hamish Macbeth cannot help but worry about the one letter that might provoke a murder. And true enough things take a very serious turn indeed when the postmistress of Braikie, Miss Amy Beattie, is found hanging from her ceiling, an apparent suicide. But Hamish doesn't believe that it is suicide, and insists on a proper investigation. But it is only when murder claims another victim soon after Miss Beattie that Hamish begins to suspect that this could be a very complicated and dangerous case. Fortunately for Hamish (whether he likes it or not) he's going to get a lot of help in unraveling this case: first there is his friend, reporter Elspeth Grant, willing to offer her keen insights (and more if need be); and then there is also vacationing Jenny Ogilvie, a jealous friend of Hamish's ex-fiancee, Priscilla Halburton-Smythe (whom he still hasn't completely gotten over), who's come to Lochdubh with the intention of nabbing Hamish for herself. Will Hamish discover who the murderer is before (s)he strikes again? Will Jenny succeed in her plan to seduce Hamish? More importantly, will Hamish finally get over Priscilla?<br />Thank God for M. C. Beaton's latest Hamish MacBeth installment! I was in the mood for something GOOD and light and amusing, and &quot;Death of a Poison Pen&quot; fit the bill completely. Swiftly paced and cleverly constructed (and let's not forget the authour's biting humour and her intelligent character portrayals), this latest Hamish MacBeth mystery novel was just the thing to sit down and unwind with, esp after a hard day's work of house cleaning. A real treat.	2004-02-07
795587:US	52830980	R1DD1LTNOD81U3	0553586181	104605561	The Bachelor List	Books	2	15	18	N	N	novel failed to meet my expectations	Set at the beginning of the 1900s, &quot;Bachelor List&quot; is the first installment in a trilogy that focuses on the exploits of the unconventional Duncan sisters who own (secretly) a women's newspaper the &quot;Mayfair Lady.&quot; The sisters are all members of Society so that their reputations would be ruined if anyone were to ever learn about their involvement with a newspaper that is slightly radical in tone and that discusses politics and campaigns actively for women's suffrage. Busy with putting out the newspaper, running their newly formed matchmaking enterprise, and trying desperately to keep their family finances afloat, the sisters have no time for romance. But all this is about to change. First up is eldest sister, Constance Duncan's story. Constance's heart was broken when her fiance was killed in battle at Mafeking, and she thinks that she's put all thoughts of romance behind her. That is until she decides to cross verbal swords with politician Max Ensor. He, of course, views all suffragettes as troublemakers, and suspecting that Constance is a member of the Suffrage Movement, has decided to use her in order to discover what these rabble rousers are up to; while Constance has decided to see if she can manipulate Max into seeing things her way. What neither of them counted on was the instant and compelling attraction that each would feel for the other, or on how this attraction would impact on their differing political agendas...<br />Unfortunately for me, &quot;Bachelor List&quot; failed to live up to it's promise. The book was actually structured around a rather novel and interesting premises: a trio of intelligent and resourceful sisters who are passionately devoted to furthering the cause of women's suffrage and how they try to achieve their goals using cloak and dagger methods because of all the hostility that much of Society has for the suffrage movement. But the authour failed to develop this theme adequately enough for me. (Perhaps I expect toomuch?) Max behaved in a condescending manner towards Constance from start to finish, which really put me off him; and while Constance did flash her eyes at him everytime he said something stupid, she also let him get away with far too much in my book. Max didn't believe in women's suffrage at the beginning of the book, and doesn't really change his mind or stand about this issue by the time the book ends. And while this was a daring approach for a romance novel, what I had banked on was for him to realise how wrong he was and change. As it stood, I was left wondering as to whether or not Max and Constance would be able to work through their political differences. And truth to tell it wouldn't at all be difficult to forsee a not so happily ever-after ending in the future if one character doesn't have a change of heart soon. <br />But my main disappointment with the book was that I really wanted to read a ROMANTIC novel -- not one about fervent sexual and sensual need -- but one about the meeting of minds and souls. I didn't really think that this was achieved in this novel at all. But that's just my take  on things.	2004-02-07
796623:US	52830980	R2BQJSMY0FGSW3	0060526211	275186589	Kiss Me Again (Kiss Me Series, Book 2)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	nice light read	Lady Francesca Epping has been in love with Brixton Smythe-Medway ever since they were children, but right now she'd like nothing better than to brain him. Brixton has wagered with his friends that he won't marry until he's 50 at least, and that when he does that if definitely wouldn't be to her because she's plain and mousy. And now the bet has been written down in betting books at White's! Lady Francesca is hurt and outraged. How dare the cad make a laughingstock out of her! In a countermove, she wagers that she will break Brixton's heart in 6 months, and kisses him passionately in oder to seal the bet. Brixton is amused: does Lady Francesca really think that she can get the better of him? But even Brixton must admit that the &quot;new&quot; Lady Francesca with her new clothes and provocative new flirting ways gives him pause. And then of course there is that kiss that seems to haunt him... Does Brixton perhaps have feelings for Lady Francesca that he would rather not admit even to himself? Under the avid eyes of the ton, Brixton and Lady Francesca begin a game of cat and mouse that will set society on its ears...<br />The second installment in a series based on a group of good friends (all men), and all who are confirmed bachelors, &quot;Kiss Me Again&quot; dwells on the confused thoughts and feelings of Brixton Smyth-Medway who believes that he isn't ready for marriage and who has to figure what really going on when he realises that he's beginning to think about a certain young lady a little too much (esp when he actually thinking about her in a more sexual terms); and on the anger and pain that Lady Frncesca feels at having all her affection and love thrown back in her face and in such a public way. On the whole the book was a very lighthearted and fun read. The story moved along at a brisk pace and chronicled both Brixton's confused feelings about Lady Francesca and her feelings of hurt, anger and determination, very well. Perhaps the characters were not as fully developed as I would have liked but Margaret Moore conveyed her ideas of who and what both Brixton and Lady Francesca were adequately enough. So that, on the whole, I'd say that &quot;Kiss Me Again&quot; is a nice, light read.	2004-02-06
798746:US	52830980	RJTXVN4S9K8UM	0425194612	737018073	The Ghost and Mrs. McClure (Haunted Bookshop Mystery)	Books	5	61	63	N	N	enjoyable first installment	Mix in a young mystery store owner, the ghost of a private detective (circa the late 1940s and very Philip Marlowe-like), and the murder of a rather unlikable mystery novelist, and you'll get the wonderfully engaging and engrossing &quot;The Ghost and Mrs. McClure,&quot; the first installment in the Haunted Bookshop mystery series. <br />Following the death of her husband, Penelope Thornton-McClure, decides to pack up her bags and son (Spenser) and move back home to Quindicott, Rhode Island. Using the insurance money from her husband's policy, Penelope buys half ownership of her aunt's bookstore, renames it (BUY THE BOOK) and starts remodeling the whole place. But Penelope ideas don't just end with the extensions, new furniture and lighting, she's also decided to start featuring authour events at the sore. And in a coup, has actually nabbed the famous mystery novelist, Timothy Brennan, to talk about and sign his latest book. What Penelope did not count on was that Brennan would turn out to be such a rotter or that he would keel over and die in the middle of his talk, right in front of his audience, or that the police would actually start eyeing her as a viable suspect when it turns out that Brennan's death was a suspicious one. Fortunately for Penelope she has her very own private investigator working on the case: the store's own resident ghost, private detective Jack Shepard. With Jack's help, things are bound to be cleared up soon -- that is once Penelope gets used to the notion that her store is being haunted by Jack, and that she's about the only person around who can hear him...<br />Even though this was a rather straight forward read, I practically stayed up till late in order to finish the book -- it was that enjoyable a read. Alice Kimberly does such a wonderful job of bringing Penelope and Jack to &quot;life&quot; and of developing their relationship, that the uncomplicated plot was NOT a detraction at all. If you're looking for a good mystery novel to unwind with that's just pure fun, you're bound to enjoy &quot;The Ghost and Mrs. McClure.&quot; In fact I can hardly wait for the next Haunted Bookshop mystery installment.	2004-02-04
803772:US	52830980	RGCOU9GFEHUPR	0821776452	899602115	Double Deception (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	novel stagnates in one particular groove for too long	The &quot;Double Deception&quot; in the title refers to the fact that the hero of this particular romance deceives the heroine twice as to his true identity -- once when he fails to enlighten her as to his real name and the second time when he beings corresponding with the heroine (via her diary) never letting on who he really is. And if this review sounds slightly strange, please understand that I'm trying hard to give a plot synopsis without giving away too much of the plot.<br />The widowed Mrs. Lenore Andrews was badly hurt when she discovered that her marriage was not the romantic stuff of dreams that she had always thought it to be: her husband had kept a great many secrets from her! Incensed and hurt, Lenore has decided that all men are selfish beasts and has expressed her disdain and contempt for men quite freely in her diary. Imagine her horror when she looses her diary one day in a tearoom! What if someone should find it and read it? Imagine also then her relief when it is returned to her, and her fury when she discovers that some MAN has read her innermost thoughts and has seen fit to take her to task for her opinions! <br />In a strange twist, Lenore meets another aggravating and mysterious gentleman a few days later, &quot;Eric Ramsey.&quot; A handsome and cool tempered man who seems to sit on judgement of her. And yet how her pulses race whenever they spar! Lenore has never been so stimulated or engaged in her life. And then in a shocking turn of events, Lenore learns that Eric Rmasey is really Eric Ramsdell, a man who has been ostracized from Society because of a scandal that touches her family most intimately. Lenore is incensed. Again she has been betrayed by a MAN. And she resolves to come up with the evidence to put Eric behind bars once and for all. But can she overlook her real feelings for Eric?<br />Eric never expected to fall in love with someone so engaging or so taking as Lenore. Unfortunately there is the matter of clearing his name so that he can openly try and court her. And there is the othe little matter of owning up that he has read her dairy and has been secretly and anonymously corresponding with her. Will Eric be able to clear his name before it is too late? And will he be able to explain himself satisfactorily enough to a woman who places trust and truth above all else? <br />The trouble with &quot;Double Deception&quot; was that for a novel in which both the hero and heroine have resolved to discover the truth about the scandal surrounding Eric, albeit for different reasons, neither really pursues this course of action until the last third of the book. Instead we were treated to page after page and chapter after chapter of Eric more or less forcing his presence on Lenore, her losing her temper and good sense and behaving really badly (understandable bad behaviour but not fun to read nonetheless), and Lenore's elder brother breathing fire and brimstone all over the place. Eric's excuse for his behaviour seems to be that he has really fallen for Lenore and needs to be near her and for her (somehow) &quot;see&quot; that he cannot have done what everyone believes; Lenore's excuse for her anger and snappish ways is that she's fallen for Eric but will not acknowledge this (now, Lenore's behaviour was totally understandable, unfortunately in the face of Eric's patience and long suffering ways, Lenore usually came across as being truly bad tempered); while Lenore's brother's excuse for throwing a tantrum every few pages was that 1) his sister was ignoring a perfectly good candidate for marriage by hanging out all the time with that bounder, Eric. These are the strains that propelled the novel for about two-thirds of the book. And all these are perfectly valid strains. But after a while, things did get tedious, esp since the investigation into what really happened all those years ago never really materialized until the last few chapters; and I really did being to grow rather tired of Lenore's angerand posturing. Would I rate &quot;Double Deception&quot; as a good and worthwhile read? I thought that the authour did a rather good job of plotting the attraction that Eric and Lenore feel for each other, as well as the anger and confusion that Lenore feels about her attraction for Eric. However there was just too much anger and posturing in this novel, and after a while the whole thing did become a little too tedious for me. So, I'd vote it as a 2 1/4 star read.	2004-01-31
804390:US	52830980	R1YCGL0K5NFWGO	0821775391	690642327	Miss Milford's Mistake (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	a good read	Six years ago, Miss Eleanor Milford went to London in order to make her bows before Society, where she met and feel in love with Griffith Preston. Unfortunately, when Griffith asked if he could speak to her father (in other words he proposed), Eleanor rebuffed him. And everyday since that fateful night, Eleanor has regretted rejecting Griffith's proposal. Now in a strange twist, Eleanor finds herself in London again, only this time not as a debutante but as a chaperone -- her dizzy cousin Priscilla is to make her debut and the girls' autocratic grandmother, the Dowager Duchess of Branden, has decided that Eleanor will be in charge of Priscilla's debut and see to it that the flighty miss does not disgrace herself beyond redemption. The last thing Eleanor expected was to come face to face with Griffith again, to discover that he is now an eligible bachelor, or that everyone expects Griffith to make a match of it with Priscilla of all people!! But is Griffith really courting Priscilla? Something about the way Griffith is behaving makes her wonder if she may have a second chance at love after all...<br />What I liked most about this book was the Victoria Hinshaw's approach as to why Eleanor and Griffith failed to make a go of it the first time around -- no deep dark secrets here -- and how neither character bears the other any resentment -- true, Griffith does feel hurt and betrayed by Eleanor's cavalier refusal but rather than plotting revenge, Griffith's prime need is to discover why she refused him. After having plowed through far too many books where the hero plots to seduce and abandon the heroine who had &quot;wronged&quot; him all those years ago, I found this authour's take on this particular plot motif refreshingly different. I also thought that the character portrayals were (on the whole) nicely handled as well, as was the tiny subplot about education. Victoria Hinshaw not only knows how to refresh a much used plot motif, but also how to &quot;colour&quot; everything with just the right amount of social history as well. However, the previous reviewer is correct when she notes that after a while, things did tend to drag on for far too long. Eleanor's vacillating between following her own inclinations and bowing to the decrees of her autocratic grandmother while understandable, did pall. And the urge to shake her really hard grew with every succeeding page. Ultimately however, because the novel did engage on every level, and I did find myself enjoying &quot;Miss Milford's Mistake,&quot; I would vote as an overall good read.	2004-01-31
806022:US	52830980	R2WBSWUD2VFG8H	0373836023	451705644	Powder and Patch	Books	4	42	43	N	N	witty and humourous early work	This is one of my favourites, in spite of the fact that it is an early work (circa 1930) and as such lacks some of the polish and more rounded character portrayals we have all come to love and expect from Georgette Heyer. It is also a much shorter novel and is told in a very straightforward manner. However Ms Heyer's effervescent wit and obvious ability to tell a good and humourous story is already evident, thus making &quot;Powder and Patch&quot; an enjoyable and worthwhile read.<br />Much to the chagrin of his father, Maurice Jettan, and his childhood sweetheart, the beautiful Cleone Charteris, Philip Jettan, is perfectly happy being a man of the country. Not for him the perfumed manners of the London drawing rooms! Unfortunately for Philip, Cleone has spent some time in London, where her beauty and grace had been much feted, and in a much more elegant and witty manner than Philip's unvarnished and from the heart declarations. Cleone would like Philip to acquire some city polish. And in this her desires are matched by Philip's father, Maurice. And so together the pair conspire; and the upshot of which is that Philip takes off for Paris in a fit of rage. Have Cleone and Maurice done the right thing? Is a more polished Philip what they really want? Cleone is beginning to wonder if she may have made the mistake of her life in scorning Philip's honest and unvarnished outpourings of love...<br />I'll admit the first time I read this novel, I kept hoping that Philip would meet some nice and sensible young lady in Paris who would make him forget Cleone Charteris. Part of the problem was that I found myself unable to understand exactly what Cleone and Maurice found so wanting in Philip. Philip Jettan was sincere and true, unlike a great many romance heroes who (by comparison) come across as insincere women-haters. Years later I understood that &quot;Powder and Patch&quot; was actually a comedy of manners, written very much in the style of an 18th century play. Understanding this allowed me appreciate Cleone more. The joy to be gleaned from this novel is from &quot;watching&quot; Philip blossom and become more polished, watching him trying to teach Cleone a much needed lesson or two, and watching quick tempered Cleone react to everything that's unfolding before her eyes. So that the happily-ever-after few pages when it (finally) came was tender and satisfyingly well worth the wait. Witty and lighthearted, &quot;Powder and Patch&quot; is a read not to be missed.	2004-01-29
811698:US	52830980	R34IS8IJBM5LPG	0743482247	692547113	Arson and Old Lace (Far Wychwood Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	an excellent debut	This is the first installment in a brand new series by a new authour (Patricia Harwin), and what a thoroughly enjoyable read &quot;Arson and Old Lace&quot; proved to be! Set in a small little village just outside Oxford (Far Wychwood), &quot;Arson and Old Lace&quot; fits comfortably within the parameters of what an English &quot;cozy&quot; should be. Patricia Harwin obviously knows exactly what ingredients should go into an English &quot;cozy,&quot; as well as what to add/change so that &quot;Arson and Old Lace&quot; manages (and rightly so) to come across as something fresh and vibrant. I enjoyed reading this mystery novel immensely and am feeling really both disappointed and impatient since I will have to wait a whole year in order to be able to read the next Catherine Penny mystery novel.<br />Bitter, angry and saddened by her sudden divorce, sixty-something Catherine Penny has decided to leave her old life in New York City behind her and move into a charming little 17th century cottage at Far Wychwood, near Oxford. Of course Catherine won't be really all alone since her daughter, Emily, and her family lives there as well. Determined to put the memory of her failed marriage and her ex-husband, Quinn, behind her, the very notion of moving to another country definitely had its appeal. But Catherine is little prepared for the odd characters that she encountered in her new home. People like her immediate neighbour, senile old George Crocker, who seems to have been left to cope with things all by himself by both his family and the village; or the zealot-like new vicar, Ian Laribee, who seems intent on removing all signs of the village church's historical past. Fortunately most of the villagers seem to be nice and welcoming, and Catherine soon begins to feel that her decision to immigrate was the right one. <br />That is until old George Crocker is found dead in his burning cottage. Thanks to Catherine, the police quickly discover enough evidence to conclude that George was murdered. You'd think that having convinced the police that old George had been murdered would have been enough for Catherine, but Catherine finds that she has a burning urge to discover for herself who had murdered George and why. But in a village that goes back hundreds of years and where the villagers all seem to have roots that also go back as long, Catherine just might dig up more than she has bargained for...<br />I love English &quot;cozies&quot; and it was a real treat to discover &quot;Arson and Old Lace.&quot; The story was a good one, dealing evenly with how Catherine tries to cope with her hurt over the breakup of her marriage; the difficulties she faces with her daughter, Emily; how she adapts to life in Far Wychwood, and how she keeps finding herself deeply involved in trying to unmask George's murderer. The pacing was even and fairly swift -- nothing got bogged down -- and there was enough plot twists and red herring suspects so that mystery buffs shouldn't feel too shortchanged. &quot;Arson and Old Lace&quot; is wonderful first installment in a brand new series that is worth recommending that everyone buy/read and keep an eye out for future installments. This truly was an excellent buy and read.	2004-01-25
813515:US	52830980	RAZZZSB5V1NB	0765305089	539749596	Pride and Prescience: Or, A Truth Universally Acknowledged (Mr. and Mrs. Darcy Mysteries)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	a thoroughly enjoyable &quot;gothic&quot; read	For Elizabeth Bennet, her wedding day has turned out to be a wondrous day: not only has she married a gentleman she dearly loves and respects and who matches her sensibilities and temperament perfectly (Mr. Darcy), but she was also able to share the day with her beloved sister, Jane, who in a joint ceremony married her own soul mate, Mr. Bingley. And not even the poisonous presence of Bingley's jealous sister, Caroline, who has managed to grab all the attention that should have been the brides' due, by announcing her own engagement to the rich American, Mr. Parrish, can spoil things for Elizabeth. <br />The newly-wed Darcys have every intention of removing to Mr. Darcy's estate at Pemberly so that they can spend their very first Christmas together there, but the news that Caroline and her fiance have decided to marry as soon as possible in London makes them decide to postpone their trip for a while. All seems well until a series of strange episodes begins to plague Caroline soon after her marriage and arouses the concern of her new husband, family and friends. What is wrong with Caroline? Is she quickly loosing her mind? As Caroline's family and friends rally around to give their support and help, Elizabeth cannot help but wonder if something more sinister is at work...<br />If you're in the mood for a swiftly paced, gothic-like read, look no further -- &quot;Pride and Prescience&quot; is definitely the book for you. I truly enjoyed &quot;Pride and Prescience.&quot; The story was a good one and told in a refreshingly vibrant, suspenseful and (yet) playful manner. I enjoyed the authour's portrayal of Elizabeth's and Darcy's marriage -- their witty exchanges and the obvious love, affection and respect that they have for each other. And I loved the Jane Eyre/Ann Radcliff tones that Carrie Bebris incorporated to the main plot. So what if the authour's prose style sometimes did verge more on the modern! And what if the identity of the villain is rather easy to guess!Little &quot;flaws&quot; such as these were easy to overlook when the final result was that I thoroughly enjoyed myself and was once again able to recapture some of that wonderful feeling I get whenever I reread one of Jane Austen's incomparable novels. So that all in all, I'd vote &quot;Pride and Prescience&quot; as a truly worthwhile read and buy.	2004-01-24
821466:US	52830980	R37CICM2RG333G	0743246861	113447663	The Grenadillo Box: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	an excellent and riveting read	Because his good friend and fellow journeyman, John Partridge, is indisposed, cabinet maker Thomas Chippendale asks Nathaniel Hopson, to go to Cambridgeshire in order to install the new library that Lord Montfort had commissioned. And even though Nathaniel would much rather stay in London and pursue an acquaintance with the charming Miss Alice Goodchild (who is currently running her father's wood business), duty dictates that he obey Chippendale's orders. At Montfort's estate however, he finds himself at the beck and call of a petty tyrant, much given to violent displays of temper, and who's disposition has made life rather unpleasant for both his much younger second wife, as well as for his unmarried sister. Nathaniel is looking forward most heartily to finishing the job and leaving Cambridgeshire, when disaster strikes: on the very night that Lord Montfort had invited his neighbours to dinner and in order to show off his new library, he's found dead in the library. Everyone at first believes that he has killed himself, especially when it comes to light that Montfort had lost a great deal of money to his neighbour, Lord Foley. But Nathaniel observes certain things that leads him to the conclusion that Lord Montfort may have been murdered instead. Everything becomes even more complicated when the mutilated body of Nathaniel's friend, John Partridge, is found frozen in a lake on the estate. Are the two deaths connected? And if so how? Did the two men know each other? Did Montfort kill Partridge or vice versa? These are the questions that plague Nathaniel. And when Lord Foley, who for reasons of his own, decides to make use of Nathaniel in order to discover what really happened that fateful night, Nathaniel reluctantly agrees to play investigator. Because for Nathaniel, discovering who killed Partridge and why is far more important than discovering what the rich and the titled are up to. And he will use whatever pretext comes his way in order to bring Partridge's murderer to justice...<br />&quot;The Grenadillo Box&quot; made for some truly riveting reading. The authour is a rather well known art and antique expert, and her grasp for the history and social mores of the time (mid 18th century England) was fairly evident and added to the richness and texture of the novel. Also nicely one was the brilliant manner in which she captured the voice of her protagonist, Nathaniel Hopson. Nathaniel's awkwardness at mixing with those of a much higher social strata, the anger and loss he feels about Partridge's death, and the confusion he feels about his feelings for Alice is all very precisely and vividly portrayed. Indeed, it was this engaging and taking portrayal of Nathaniel that compelled me to read on. And while the plot did seem to be a little complicated (mainly because of the manner in which the story is allowed to unfold) the pacing was swift and taut, so that the book truly does make for an engrossing and suspenseful read. So that all in all, I'd vote &quot;The Grenadillo Box&quot; as a truly worthwhile and excellent read.	2004-01-18
828676:US	52830980	R2LNB3SJFJOK4X	0425194019	975956418	The Hunter's Tale (Sister Frevisse Medieval Mysteries)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	an excellent read	Once again Dame Frevisse of St. Frideswide's finds herself venturing away from the safe and peaceful confines of the nunnery and thrown into another situation involving murder, greed and family secrets. This is the thirteenth installment in the Dame Frevisse medieval mysteries, and it certainly lives up to expectations.<br />Sir Ralph Woderove was not a well liked man at all: deeply obsessed with hunting, his casual indifference and petty cruelty towards his family and retainers earned him no accolades. So that when he's found murdered one day (by a presumed poacher), no one is too surprised that his family shows almost no concern that there is little likelihood of his murderer ever being apprehended. Unfortunately even though Sir Ralph is no more, he still manages to maintain a stranglehold on his family because of the terms of his will. But it is when Sir Ralph's unfortunate widow, the Lady Anneys, finds herself being harassed by the unwanted attentions of a suitor that Dame Frevisse finds herself becoming deeply embroiled in the affairs of the Woderoves. And what she observes leads her to believe that Sir Ralph's murderer is not some unknown assailant but someone close at hand -- possibly even a family member. Unable to let things go, Dame Frevisse decides to do some investigating of her own, and finds herself becoming obsessed in her need to unmask a murderer...<br />Unlike previous Dame Frevisse mystery novels, this particular installment does not feature a cunning plot full of surprising twists and turns and intrigue. However, because Margaret Frazer is one of the few mystery novelists who treats the historical element as something more than mere wall papering, &quot;The Hunter's Tale&quot; turned out to be quite the engrossing read. The authour has a real talent for making 15th century England interesting and accessible (all those vivid imagery and details on what life in a nunnery and at the manor would have been like), and for portraying characters so thatthey were realistic and believable. I enjoyed Ms Frazer's thoughtful portrayal of Dame Frevisse -- especially the manner in which she showed us how the need to know was affecting Dame Frevisse's sense of balance and serenity -- and her portrayal of the young nun, Sister Johanne (and the interchanges between the two), who accompanies her to the Woderove manor. Also nicely done was the manner in which she imbued the Woderoves with a sense of bleakness, fear and despair at what has befallen them. So that all in all, even if &quot;The Hunter's Tale&quot; was not the kind of 'edge-of-your-seat' mystery novel that I had come to expect from Margaret Frazer, it still was an excellent 5 star read.	2004-01-13
834279:US	52830980	R3UJF4BC5X6E92	0451210123	34712745	The Spinster and the Wastrel (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	wonderful debut novel	Gerard Montfort thought that he would inherit not only his miserly uncle's title and estate, but his entire unentailed wealth as well. But when his uncle passes away and Gerard arrives at the small village of Upper Brampton in Wiltshire to hear the will, he discovers that while he has inherited what is his due (the title and entailed estate), his uncle has bequeathed all the unentailed property and wealth to Miss Annette Courtney, the prior vicar's daughter and spinster of the parish. Gerard is fit to be tied. How could his uncle do such a thing to him? And what is he to do? For Gerard has borrowed heavily from a moneylender and now has no way of repaying the loan or of taking care of the people of his estate. Should he contest his uncle's will or try and smooth talk the spinster into seeing things his way?<br />Annette has spent a lifetime trying to help the people of her village and trying to wrest much needed pennies out of the miserly Sir Nigel. And now the old man has left her a veritable fortune!  Annette has every intention of using her new fortune to help the less unfortunate members of her village, as well as finally realising her dream of opening a school for the village children. Unfortunately Sir Gerard's claims that she has inherited money that is his due sits heavily on her conscience. And while she is initially able to dismiss his claims by telling herself that he is a gambler and a wastrel, she is unable to blithely carry on with this belief once she gets to know him better. Which is the real Sir Gerard? The care for naught opportunist that Sir Nigel claimed his nephew was, or the thoughtful and fair man she's gotten to know? Not everything is black and white. And as Annette begins to wrestle with the problem of deciding just what sort of person Sir Gerard is, she also arrives at the uncomfortable realization that the staid spinster of the village of Upper Brampton may have lost her heart and good sense to a practiced charmer...<br />&quot;The Spinster and the Wastrel&quot; is a wonderful debut novel that can boast of possessing a story that is both interesting and a little out of the ordinary. Louise Bergin did a wonderful job of plotting the relationship that develops between Annette and Sir Gerard. She also does a wonderful job of portraying all the doubts and wariness that an unworldly and unsophisticated woman (Annette) would feel when trying to make up her mind about someone who is beyond her narrow scope of experience (Sir Gerard in other words), and of developing the character of Sir Gerard so that we get to fully appreciate all his frustrations and fears. The story flowed smoothly and briskly, and all the characters were fully developed and realized. Only two things kept this book from being a 5 star read and a keeper: firstly, that the romance factor was sadly lacking. I came away with the sneaking feeling that Sir Gerard wanted to marry Annette solely so that she would keep him on the straight and narrow. That he greatly admires her is never in any doubt. But I didn't really buy that he had really fallen in love with her. But then that's just my opinion, and I may have missed something somewhere. The second thing I didn't like (and it's a personal thing here) was the ending involving Sir Gerard's horse. Won't say more except to say while I understand why the authour did this, I still didn't like it. However, if you're looking for a fresh new voice and a well written novel that actually falls within the parameters of what a good Regency-era novel should be, you should definitely give &quot;The Spinster and the Wastrel&quot; a go.	2004-01-09
834689:US	52830980	R3DO3TXLA78K9M	042519390X	649389762	The Perils of Paella	Books	3	7	8	N	N	not one of the better installments but still enjoyable	This is the fourth Carolyn Blue culinary mystery. This time, Carolyn is sunny Barcelona hoping to sample more delicious Catalan food (Carolyn's been to Barcelona before), as well as enjoy the historic sights of the magnificent city, but finding herself entangled in yet another murder investigation instead. Unfortunately for me, I didn't find this particualr installment to be as enjoyable as the previous one, \\"Chocolate Quake.\\"<br />When Carolyn's scientist husband, Jason, is invited to give a few lectures in Salamanca and Barcelona, Carolyn naturally decides to tag along. This will give her a chance to sample the excellent Catalan fare to be had in Barcelona, and write a few articles about the food and history of the city. And when Carolyn learns that her good friend, Roberta Hecht is in Barcelona, having accepted a 3 month stint at the Espirit de Gaudi i Miro, Carolyn decides to go ahead to Barcelona in order to spend some time with her friend before Jason joins her. The last thing that Carolyn expected when she turns up at the museum feeling extremely jet-lagged and rumpled, is to make the unsettling discovery that there is a dead body in the performance art piece being performed at the museum. And not just any dead body, but that of a young woman who bears an uncanny resemblance to her friend, Roberta. Is someone after Roberta? But why would anyone want to murder Roberta? Carolyn soon learns, however, that in the small and stifling world of the Espirit de Gaudi i Miro, where absurd jealousies and pettiness seems part of the course, everyone seems to believe that Roberta is guilty of the crime. Knowing full well that Roberta is incapable of murdering anyone, Carolyn is determined to help her friend prove her innocence even if it means getting entangled in a murder investigation once again...<br />While on the whole \\"The Perils of Paella\\" was not a bad read, it was not one of Nancy Fairbanks better efforts either. Unlike the previous books in this series, this novel was really quite short on any interesting historical tit-bits, although I rather enjoyed her descriptions of the Gaudi architecture to be seen throughout the city. And the book also seemed to lack that slightly lighthearted and humorous touch that characterized previous installments. Poor Carolyn didn't seem to have all that much fun in Barcelona at all -- but perhaps a lack of real sleep and only frequenting absolute dives might have had something to do with this. Or could it have been the effect of Carolyn's demanding and high maintenance friend, Roberta? I'll admit that Roberta was just got on my nerves, and I really wanted Carolyn to grow a backbone and tell Roberta off more often! Alas this didn't happen frequently enough for me. And aside from Carolyn, the only other main character that was interesting and engaging was the Spanish police inspector in charge of the case, Inspector Pujol. Inspector Pujol's sardonic narratives alone made this book an enjoyable read, and I found myself wishing fervently that the entire novel had been written from Pujol's point of view. So that even though the mystery subplot was so-so and the clues were scarce (although there was a healthy number of suspects -- too bad Nancy Fairbanks didn't do enough with them), I will say that this was an entertaining read because of Carolyn's and Pujol's engaging and entertaining narratives.	2004-01-09
836438:US	52830980	RERA5XHC9FFHQ	0451210913	241176148	Secrets	Books	3	2	2	N	N	nice romantic follow-up to SCANDAL	&quot;Secrets&quot; is the second in a trilogy penned by Heather Cullman (the first was &quot;Scandal&quot;), and I'll admit, I do think that it is the better novel of the two. (By the way, it's not necessary to read first &quot;Scandal&quot; in order to figure out what's going on).<br />Christian English has a lot to be grateful for: once he was a slave, but after having been rescued by his benefactor, Gideon Harwood, Christian is now not only a freed man but also a relatively rich one. Only the fact that he still has no memory as to his real identity and as to how he ended up on a slave block in Algiers still frustrates and haunts him. Christian would dearly like to know who he truly is, if he has any family, and more importantly if he is married or not, because Christian has fallen in love with Gideon's sister, Bethany, but has resolved to say nothing about his true feelings because of his uncertain status. That is until a chance encounter at the Harwoods' Christmas ball gives Christian an inkling as to who he might be. Christian is overjoyed: not only does he have a real identity now, but he can also court Bethany properly as is her due. But for Bethany, this new knowledge spells the end of all her hopes and dreams. For Bethany, unfortunately, has a few skeletons rattling in her closet, and she knows only all to well that she is no match for the 'real' Christian. Will Christian's and Bethany's love prevail, or will the dictates of society tear the two apart?<br />What I really liked about &quot;Secrets&quot; was that the love that Christian and Bethany feel is readily evident from the very beginning. It made for a refreshing change. The novel was nicely paced, even if things did drag a bit for a while after Christian had discovered who he really was. The characters were all rather well developed; and I especially liked the manner in which the authour showed us how much Christian had changed, and how he was (still) intrinsically the same. However I did think thatsome characters (like Christian's parents) could have been developed more. The same could be said for the villain of the piece. While it was fairly easy to figure out who had betrayed Christian, it would have been nice if this character had been developed more. On the whole though, if you're looking for a romantic and sweeping historical novel, you won't regret picking up &quot;Secrets.&quot;	2004-01-07
836588:US	52830980	R3B8WF4NJJT5ZI	0451210409	50407963	A Perfect Scoundrel (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	a light and charming read: 3 1/2 stars	Ever since they were children, Major Alexander Portman has been following his older twin, Anthony (the future sixth Baron Bevin), into mischief. But maturity, years in the army and the Peninsula war has matured Alexander. The same, unfortunately, cannot be said for Anthony who has spent the past few years charming his way through the ton. Now, Anthony wants Alexander to impersonate him. The twins' grandfather is hosting a house-party and wants Anthony to be there to welcome a few old family friends. Anthony, however, would much rather attend a 'mill' with a few of his friends than spend his time evading matrimonial traps. Alexander is, at first, determined not to be swayed by his brother; but a good friend's need for a hiding place finds him agreeing to Anthony's scheme. Devoutly hoping that he will not live to rue the day, Alexander makes for Portman Park with his friend. If all goes well no one will ever know of this latest prank. What Alexander didn't count on was the presence of his childhood friend, Juliet Moseby -- the only person who could ever tell the twins apart -- or how the mere sight of this charming lady would make him realize just how much he has always cared for her. But Juliet, in spite of her charm, intelligence and beauty seems intent on keeping him at an arm's length solely because of her illegitimate birth. Can Alexander persuade Juliet to put aside her wary feelings and believe in his love and good intentions? And how will Alexander's grandfather take these new developments?<br />If you're looking for a light and charming read, you can't go very wrong with &quot;A Perfect Scoundrel&quot; -- though I wasn't exactly sure as to who the scoundrel was in this story. The two main characters, Juliet and Alexander, were both likable characters and one could find oneself believing the love and affection that they had for each other. Martha Kirkland did a wonderful job of portraying Juliet's situation -- the insults that are thrown at her daily because of her illegitimate birth, and her uncertainty about Alexander's true feelings. The other subplot involving the current baron's guests (the Quicks) and Mrs. Quick's attempts to push her daughters at both Alexander and Anthony was well done too, as was the third subplot involving Juliet's search for her natural father. Unfortunately this embarrassment of richness meant that all three subplots were stretched thin and not developed nearly enough. Still, &quot;A Perfect Scoundrel&quot; did make for an entertaining read and a pleasant way to spend a rainy afternoon.	2004-01-07
845159:US	52830980	RY3UHPR2WFXWR	0440241065	475697120	Slightly Tempted (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	3	14	17	N	N	an enjoyable read, although a tad predictable	&quot;Slightly Tempted&quot; is the fourth book in the Mary Balogh's Bedwyn series, and with two more books to go, the question is: is &quot;Slightly Tempted&quot; a worthwhile buy? Well, that depends: story and plot-wise, it's nothing startlingly new under the sun as the novel's central motif is that of the much used revenge-plot; on the other hand Mary Balogh has done a rather good job of depicting her heroine (Morgan Bedwyn) and the attraction that simmers between Morgan and the hero, Gervase Ashford, the Earl of Rosthorn. So, if you're looking for a book that's much more memorable and doesn't hinge completely on the interaction between the hero and heroine, than this may not be the book for you. But if you're looking for a swiftly paced 3-star read and you are a fan of the series, than &quot;Slightly Tempted&quot; certainly will do.<br />For the past nine years, Gervase Ashford, the Earl of Rosthorn, has lived in exile on the Continent because a rather nasty scandal. And the one person he's constantly blamed for his humiliating situation is the Duke of Bewcastle. Thirsting for revenge for the wrongs done to him, it finally looks as if things are beginning to look his way when he spies the duke's beautiful and willful younger sister, Morgan, in Brussels. Thinking of using Morgan in order to create a scandal that would shame and embarrass the duke, Gervase begins a determined pursuit of Morgan. But Morgan, he realizes, is more than just the duke's younger sister. She's also a beautiful, wise and intelligent young lady, and one that he's beginning to like immensely. What should Gervase do? Carry on with his plans for revenge or give up his plans completely? <br />While the story was a familiar and much used one, I did find myself totally engrossed with what was going on for the first half of the book at least. Mary Balogh did a truly good job of portraying both Morgan and Gervase and making them both seem real and likable. Even the attraction between the two passedmuster. Unfortunately, once the scene of action moved from Belgium to England, the book became a bit of a bland read. Things became just a tad too predictable -- you could practically tell that something would happen to force Morgan and Gervase to become engaged and that they would be at daggers drawn until they have the TALK that they perhaps should have had somewherein the middle of the book before things got so predictably out of hand. The other thing that irritated was the manner in which the Bedwyn siblings treated their brother, the duke. After three books in which Aidan, Rannulf and Freya have all come to understand and appreciate their brother a little better, you'd think that this would have translated into a better understanding of their brother and a trust that if he dislikes someone then there must be a really good reason why this is so. (Also, Gervase's habit of always addressing Morgan as 'cherie' got really irritating after a while.) But these were really just minor irritations, and the truth is if you enjoyed the previous Bedwyn novels, you're bound to enjoy &quot;Slightly Tempted.&quot; However if you're looking for something different from the usual fare and that is truly a riveting read, then &quot;Slightly Tempted&quot; may not be the book for you.	2004-01-02
846528:US	52830980	R2HVV1OJ4Y2I1T	0525947671	7966085	The Lady and the Unicorn	Books	5	5	5	N	N	a truly compelling read	A subtle blend of fact and fiction, &quot;The Lady and the Unicorn&quot; is an exquisitely written and cleverly plotted book about the creation of the six bewitching and fascinating Le Viste tapestries. And although &quot;The Lady and the Unicorn&quot; may not be quite as lyrical as &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot; nor anywhere as dark as &quot;The Virgin Blue,&quot; &quot;The Lady and the Unicorn&quot; still does make for compelling and engrossing reading -- I simply had to finish it in one sitting.<br />In 1490, Jean Le Viste, a powerful and rich man who has the King of France's confidence but who more or less bought his way into the aristocracy with money and a good marriage, has decided to commission a set of tapestries in order to proclaim his wealth and power. Nicholas des Innocents, a talented, arrogant and rakish young man, is the artist that has been chosen to do the paintings upon which the tapestries would be based. Jean le Viste would like them to be of battle scenes from the Battle of Nancy. A quiet talk with the lady of the house, Genevieve de Nanterre, however gives Nicholas the idea of making the tapestries tell, instead, the story of the Lady and the unicorn. What follows is how Nicholas and the weavers in Belgium work together on the details that will make these tapestries a magical work of art; how Nicholas affects the lives of the men (and in particular) the women around him (like Genevieve de Nanterre, her beautiful and lively daughter, Claude; Christine du Sablon, the weaver's wife and her daughter, Alienor); and how the drive to realize the full magic of these tapestries will affect them all...<br />Tracy Chevalier is one of those rare authours who is able to tell a tale in a rich and vivid manner and yet not use a prose style that is either overly florid or flamboyant. Her prose style is actually quite sparse and stark, and yet, in spite of this, she is able to capture completely how busy and colourful life and the cities of Paris and Brussels must have been in the late fifteenth century. The plot for &quot;The Lady and the Unicorn&quot; was well paced and carefully constructed; but one of the high points of this novel (for me anyway) was the brilliant manner in which she was able to bring the various characters in her book to life in spite of the fact that much of her character portrayals were merely thumbnail sketches at times. But best of all was &quot;watching&quot; how the legend of the lady and the unicorn was being played out again in the interactions between Nicholas and his various ladies, and &quot;seeing&quot; how the six tapestry portrayals of the lady corresponded with what was going on in actuality. Intriguing and enthralling, &quot;The Lady and the Unicorn&quot; is a read not to be missed.	2003-12-31
850218:US	52830980	R3MIGV4LX3COPI	0060525355	427906915	The Canterbury Papers: A Novel of Suspense	Books	5	13	15	N	N	a compelling first novel	Whether or not your familiar with the history of France and England during the twelfth century and all the power plays and intrigue that went on then, and the Plantagenets and the Capets, you have to read Judith Koll Healey's thrilling and engaging novel, &quot;The Canterbury Papers.&quot; Cleverly mixing fact with fiction, Ms Healey gives a compelling new novel about Princess Alais Capet, once destined to be Richard the Lionheart's wife, but who instead returned to France unwed, and who spent many years of her life in obscurity.<br />Bitter and angry about her current status in life -- unmarried and gossiped about -- Princess Alais Capet is in no mood to feel festive about her nephew's upcoming marriage. So that when her stepmother, Queen Eleanor of Acquitaine, writes to Alais, asking her to retrieve a few letters hidden in the cathedral at Canterbury, Alais is in the mood to entertain Eleanor's proposition. More important to Alais though is Eleanor's promise to divulge all that she knows about a child that was born in secrecy many years ago if Alais agrees to help her. Desperate to be away from the court and to learn all that Eleanor knows, Alais agrees to help Eleanor, little expecting that the journey would be fraught with so much memories and danger. For not only is journey to England bringing back many memories, both happy and sad, and reuniting Alais with many friends from her past, but people seem to be following her. But are they following her intending to harm or protect...<br />&quot;The Canterbury Papers&quot; were a terrifically engrossing and engaging read. Judith Koll Healey is a brilliant storyteller, and her grasp on the history of the period and the personalities concerned is evident for all to see. Although I was fairly familiar with the history of the period, Ms Healey told her tale in such a winning manner and created such a wonderfully vibrant and taking heroine in Alais Capet, that I had to finish the book in one go. Thrilling from start to finish, &quot;The Canterbury Papers&quot; is one novel that should not be missed!	2003-12-29
853858:US	52830980	R31A8LPI86K32V	0821776355	57453142	Miss Lindel's Love (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a satisfying 4 star read in spite of the rushed ending	Lively and pretty young Maris Lindel has long nursed a tendre for her landlord and neighbour, the dashing Lord Kenton Danesby. And while she's had all kinds of day dreams about Danesby falling in love with her and marrying her, sensible Maris realizes this will never really come to pass. But when Maris goes to London for her debut, she finds herself constantly crossing paths with Danesby. Why is Danesby paying her any attention at all? Maris's heart leaps at the thought that Danesby may actually be interested romantically in her, but perhaps it's only wishful thinking on her part and he's only being polite? Little does Maris realise that Danesby is actually much taken by her liveliness and innocence, and that while he fully realizes that she's quite smitten with him, he intends to gently rebuff her...<br />If you enjoy quiet romance novels that remind you of the works of Maria Edgeworth and Fanny Burney, then you will enjoy &quot;Miss Lindel's Love.&quot; (Though the plot synopsis at the back of the book is actually a little inaccurate and gives away far too much of what's going to happen in the book.) &quot;Miss Lindel's Love&quot; is actually a nice little novel about a young girl's rite of passage from the naive teenage-hood to adulthood and maturity, and as such it is a good read. Cynthia Pratt does a good job of fleshing out her heroine and making her engaging, likable and easy to relate to. She does a good job with the hero, Danesby, as well although he was not as easy to relate to as Maris. The story was a good one even if the pacing was not always even. Which leads to the few complaints had with the book: 1) the ending was a little rushed -- Maris and Danesby are in Bath, when Danesby suddenly realizes his true feelings for Maris and acts on them -- but all this took place within the last 60 pages or so; and 2) that the novel was not long enough -- it would have been nice if more time had been given to developing a &quot;real&quot; relationship between Marisand Danesby and if a few other characters (like Maris's best friend Lucy) had been developed more and been given some kind of resolution. I really wanted to know what would become of Lucy, and felt truly frustrated that things had been left hanging.<br />To reiterate then, if you enjoy quiet coming of age stories written in an almost Fanny Burney/Maria Edgeworth manner, give &quot;Miss Lindel's Love&quot; a go.	2003-12-25
853860:US	52830980	R3MF191USPQUSD	0060097973	92131723	Bell, Book, and Scandal (Jane Jeffry Mysteries, No. 14)	Books	3	12	17	N	N	a light read although not vintage Churchill	Strangely enough I wasn't too terribly disappointed with Jill Churchill's &quot;Bell, Book, and Scandal.&quot; Perhaps it's because after having suffered through &quot;Mulch Ado About Nothing&quot; and &quot;The House of the Seven Mabels&quot; my expectations were not too high. True enough, while this latest Jill Jeffry mystery novel is nothing compared to the earlier ones (&quot;Grime and Punishment,&quot; &quot;Farewell to Yarns,&quot; etc), it was not a terrible read either (and it was definitely on a higher level than anything on TV right now). Light and breezy, &quot;Bell, Book and Scandal&quot; kept me happily entertained until the last page. However, enjoyable though the book was, there were certain points about the book that did irk. For example, I really did think that the first few chapters that dealt with Jane's buying a new car was totally out of place in this novel. It really didn't contribute to the plot at all. And then there was the fact that as a mystery novel it really wasn't much of one -- there was no suspense or tension. And unlike Ms Churchill's earlier works where she more or less invites the reader to sleuth along with Jane and Shelley, the clues and suspects were in short supply so that any sleuthing was truly impossible. (It was also easy to figure out where one particular subplot was heading.) On the other hand, I did enjoy the bits about what goes on at a mystery conference, and what to expect if you're trying to get your book published. All in all, an entertaining 3 star read.	2003-12-25
854246:US	52830980	R1ZZM4RG2Y84W8	0821775928	799917786	Miss Seton's Sonata (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	3 stars -- a bit disappointing though	Can a sweet natured but socially timid young lady (Miss Teresa Seton) who also happens to be a very talented musician, persuade the widowed gentleman (the Marquis of Merrick) she's in love with to cease mourning for his beloved dead wife, and find love and happiness with her? This is the theme of \\"Miss Seton's Sonata.\\" Unfortunately for me, reading \\"Miss Seton's Sonata\\" was a bit like eating a piece of cake and finding that it had been made with too much cream and not enough substance. The book had a lot of promise, but somewhere along the way it seemed to lose momentum and became a bit of a bland read. This is going to be tricky because I absolutely don't want to reveal too much of the plot and spoil things for readers who have yet to pick up the book. So here goes: I liked the first half of the novel quite a bit -- the story was a good one (up until that point at least), Meredith Bond's hero and heroine were both engaging and really nice characters, and the authour's inspired notion of making Teresa's mother a vital part of the story -- all made \\"Miss Seton's Sonata\\" appear to have the hallmarks of a 4 star read. However, halfway through the novel everything petered out. Meredith Bond allows her plot and characters to stagnate as old issues are rehashed (the Marquis's guilt over his attraction for Teresa and his fear that Teresa may not survive the sharp scrutiny of the ton without his support) over and over again. And the most promising bit in this novel, namely Teresa's relationship with her beautiful mother, was not examined thoroughly enough (for me anyway). Many readers will likely not share in my disappointment with \\"Miss Seton's Sonata\\" because it really is NOT one of those terribly written books with weak plots and characters that make you long to be able to hurl objects, but since I was expecting a book with a little more substance to it, the discovery that it was a great to do about very little, was a severe disappointment. Nonetheless I'd still rate itas a 3 star read.	2003-12-25
856604:US	52830980	R1UG1KQ89DF87M	0451210816	1841120	Murder Between the Covers (Dead-End Job Mysteries, Book 2)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	an engaging read in spite of the few &quot;niggles&quot; I had...	Once Helen Hawthorne was the very picture of success: she led a chic and trendy life, was married and had a brilliant career. But all that came to a crashing halt one day, and now Helen is on the run, all alone, almost penniless and moving from one dead-end job to another, valiantly trying to stay as many steps ahead of her past (and the law) as possible. Helen's latest job is as a cashier at Page Turners, a bookstore in Fort Lauderdale. The store is owned and managed by Page Turner III, a mean spirited drunk, who knows practically next to nothing about the book business (or books for that matter), and who is loathed by his wife and employees. But when he's found dead, and Helen's friend and neighbour, Peggy, is arrested for the crime, Helen realizes that she will have to put her personal feelings about her employer and her fears about being discovered by the police behind her in order to help Peggy by discovering who really murdered the much detested Page...<br />While the previous reviewer is correct in saying that Helen stumbles about quite a bit while trying to figure who may have murdered the unlamented Page Turner III, what one has got to keep in mind is that Helen is not really a private detective, and that she's not even all that sophisticated. She's just a capable woman of above average intelligence. And once you come to grips with that mental image of Helen, then reading &quot;Murder Between the Covers&quot; becomes a much more enjoyable read. I liked the fact that because Helen wasn't exactly sure of how to go about proving that Peggy hadn't committed the murder, trying to discover who the actual murderer was wasn't all that easy. I also enjoyed Elaine Viets's accurate description of what being a book salesperson is actually like. However, while the novel was engaging and enjoyable, I did have a few problems with the book. 1) Because I hadn't read the first book in the series, I started assuming that Helen was on the run from the law because she had committed a much more serious crime (like murder), the truth was a little anticlimactic (it was revealed about two-thirds through the novel). Personally, I would have preferred it if the authour had clarified everything at the beginning of the book. And 2) I do think that the mystery subplot could have been a little tighter. As it was, Helen managed to solve the mystery due to luck and happenstance. And while there were a lot of potential suspects, clues were in short supply. On the other hand, the authour's character portrayals were quite good and her style of writing engaging. So that I'd vote &quot;Murder Between the Covers&quot; as a good read.	2003-12-22
862422:US	52830980	R3756RO3NL53UO	0060545798	675878947	Dealing in Murder: A Molly Doyle Mystery	Books	4	8	8	N	N	brilliant debut novel	&quot;Dealing in Murder&quot; is Elaine Flinn's first mystery novel, and what a debut novel this book has proved to be! From the very first page, Elaine Flinn successfully drew me in, and ensnared me with the events that were unfolding, so that I literally could not put this book down until I reached the final page.<br />Still reeling from some rather unfortunate and scandalous events from her recent past, Molly Doyle has packed her bags and relocated to Carmel, California in order to manage an antique store for an old friend. But Molly has barely settled into her new life when she finds herself entangled in a murder investigation because she has had the ill luck to discover the dying victim. Now, afraid that the police will conveniently settle on her as the handiest suspect available because of her past, Molly is determined to discover who murdered the unlikable victim (and why) before it's too late...<br />What I liked about &quot;Dealing in Murder&quot; aside from it's wonderfully intriguing plot premise, was the manner in which the authour depicted and portrayed Carmel in all it's wonderfully rainy, atmospheric glory. Elaine Flinn's character portrayals for the most part were quite good too -- although I personally did find Molly's tendency to fly off the handle a bit trying. However, if you're looking for a good, new &quot;cozy&quot; to curl up with, that's full of atmosphere and if you're into antiques, you're bound to be satisfied with Elaine Flinn's &quot;Dealing in Murder&quot;	2003-12-17
867256:US	52830980	RTQ13YMZVT0WV	0451209974	250700082	AN Encounter With Venus (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	an interesting 3 1/2 star read	George Frobisher (the current Earl of Chadleigh) was seventeen when he accidentally caught sight of Olivia Henshaw as she was stepping out of her bath. Struck with the very picture of perfection that she presented, George knew had to make the young lady's acquaintance. Unfortunately circumstances kept him from meeting her. And now, ten years later, it looks as if George will finally meet his IDEAL. His married sister, Felicia, is having a house party, and she's invited Olivia as well as several other young ladies (and gentlemen) in order to do a spot of matchmaking -- Felicia wants to set George up with one of current Season's beauties, while she's rather hoping to match Olivia with gentlemen she's invited. But when George finally comes face to face with Olivia, he's shocked to discover how the years have changed Olivia. However, while Olivia may lack the vibrancy of youth and beauty, she more than makes up for it with her intelligence and wit, so that he rather enjoys conversing with her. Unfortunately Olivia seems to dislike him immensely. Can George get Olivia to change her mind about him. For, much to his surprise, obtaining Olivia's good opinion seems to be a matter of great important to George...<br />While the plot premise of &quot;An Encounter with Venus&quot; was a very good one, and Elizabeth Mansfield's character portrayals were very good, I found myself not really being able to lose myself in the novel. Part of the problem was that Elizabeth Mansfield took a little too long to explain why Olivia constantly kept George at an arm's length. As such Olivia's curtness to George and her habit of getting angry with him at the drop of a hat made me wonder why on earth the man tried so hard to win her approval in the face of such hostility. The other problem with the book was that for me, the romance between George and Olivia was really convincing enough. And then there was the fact that everyone was running about addressing each other by their first names. The authour does a credible job of explaining this away but the fact is that it still jarred. Nicely done though was Elizabeth Mansfield's portrayal of the friendship between George and his best friend, Bernard. Also nicely done was the subplot that focused on Bernard and the lady he was smitten with. So that I'd say that in spite of these few &quot;niggles&quot; that I had with the novel, &quot;An Encounter With Venus&quot; was an interesting 3 1/2star read.	2003-12-12
872406:US	52830980	RSMLHB9AQCA7S	0821775510	682309566	My Lord Immortality (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	a good end to the trilogy	Because of her brother's (William) mental condition (he's a strapping young man with the mind of a child), Miss Amelia Hadwell has turned her back on Society and is currently living quietly in a poorer neighbourhood on a meager allowance from her parents, with William, and their devoted servant, Mrs. Benson. Amelia had quite resigned herself to a lifetime of loneliness and isolation when a series of horrific murders begins to plague the neighbourhood. Because of William's condition, Amelia lives in daily fear that someone will try to pin the murders on William. And her fears are confirmed when an anonymous tip links a young man fitting William's description to the latest murder. Fortunately for Amelia, her neighbour, the mysterious and enigmatic Sebastian St. Ives, is at hand willing to offer assistance and comfort. But Sebastian also awakens in Amelia heady feelings that she had thought she had buried. Will her feelings for Sebastian get in the way of her resolve to protect her brother?<br />Chosen by the Great Counsel of Vampires to protect Amelia (one of the maidens whom Nefri had given part of the Medallion to), Sebastian St.Ives had thought that his task would be rather simple: keep an eye on Amelia, and to make sure that she came to no harm. What the scholarly Sebastian had not counted on was Amelia's valour, her determination to protect her brother at all cost, and the strong attraction he would feel for her. Now, faced with a cunning foe who has figured out exactly how to bring Amelia down, Sebastian will have to be twice and clever and twice as ruthless. But can he do this feeling as he does for Amelia?<br />&quot;My Lord Immortality&quot; finishes the vampire trilogy that revolves around the three vampires who had been ordered by the Great Counsel to protect the three maidens who each possessed one-third of a powerful medallion. The Medallion had been used by the powerful and wise vampire Nefri to create a reality -- called the Veil -- where all the vampires had retired to in order to spend their time in study and at peace. Now, however, a few renegade vampires have left the Veil, hell-bent on retrieving the Medallion thirds in order to destroy the Veil and to make themselves all powerful. On the whole, the trilogy ended on a good and satisfying note. The authour does a rather good job of depicting the attraction that simmers between Sebastian and Amelia, as well as of the frustration that the scholarly Sebastian feels over the unexpected twists that his mission has taken thanks to his feelings for Amelia. I especially enjoyed Debbie Raleigh's strong character portrayal of Amelia's courage and loyalty, and that she made Amelia intelligent as well -- a feisty heroine with more hair than wit would have been too much to bear! And if I didn't exactly have much patience for Sebastian's lack of subtlety and patience, the swift pace of the novel made this cross easy to bear. Rather nicely done though was the unexpected plot twist (even if it didn't actually amount to very much) that the authour provided us with so the &quot;My Lord Immortality&quot; didn't become the totally expected and unsurprising read it might otherwise have been. So that all in all, I'd rate &quot;My Lord Immortality&quot; as an enjoyable 3 star read.	2003-12-08
874353:US	52830980	RG50VSCRF98LO	0821774115	654677245	Barely Proper (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	a satisfying read	Here's what I enjoy most about Regency romances written by Shannon Donnelly: she always takes the time to develop her characters, their relationships and the various settings. And with &quot;Barely Proper&quot; these three strengths melds together to give a somewhat much used plot premise a wonderful new lease on life.<br />Terence Winslow has always been a scapegrace, in and out of trouble either because of his gambling or his womanizing. So it should have come as no surprise to him that he's now been challenged to a duel by Lord Dunscombe for his affair with Lady Dunscombe. Except that when he arrives at the agreed upon spot, he finds that Dunscombe's been shot in the back. The next thing he knows, Terence is facing a charge of murder. Unable to believe his infernal luck, Terence knows that he has to somehow discover who really murdered Dunscombe before charges are formally placed against him. Fortunately for him, his neighbour and friend, Sylvain, is at hand, willing to help. Sylvain knows full well exactly what Terence is capable of, and shooting someone in the back is definitely not one of them. And she's determined to help Terence clear his name. But Sylvain has also long nursed a secret love for her neighbour. And she cannot help but fear what will happen if Terence guesses her secret...<br />&quot;Barely Proper&quot; rounds off the trilogy that focuses on the Harwood sisters and the Winslow brothers. All three novels feature stories that are not really startlingly new; on the other hand all three novels make for worthwhile reading because of the manner in which Shannon Donnelly tells her tales. In &quot;Proper Conduct&quot; the manner in which the authour draws into the shabby genteel world of the three Harwood sisters who are on the verge of spinsterhood because of their father's folly -- the relationship between the sisters and how each sister's character has been shaped by their circumstances -- was what made reading &quot;Proper Conduct&quot; such fun. Ms Donnelly did the same with &quot;Proper Mistress&quot; -- only this time she drew us into the world of the Winslow brothers, showing us how life with a perpetually angry and judgemental father had made the two brothers rather wild, and how the younger Winslow brother (Theo) is able to change thanks to love and acceptance of his &quot;improper&quot; fiancee. With &quot;Barely Proper&quot; she does for Terence what she did for Theo in &quot;Proper Mistress&quot; -- allowing for Terence to redeem his character and to become to individual he was meant to be. Discovering who the actual murderer was and exonerating himself of the murder charge was only incidental to the main focus of this novel which was all about how Sylvain and Terence act on the feelings they have for each other and how Terence changes most of his scapegrace ways. <br />With an intelligent story, engaging characters and a good prose style, &quot;Barely Proper&quot; turned out to be a truly enjoyable read.	2003-12-07
875990:US	52830980	R1GEJ3OGR8O9X5	0425194396	451049971	Midnight Angel	Books	2	2	5	N	N	a bit of a let down	Lydia Parker and Lord Hugh Montgomery share a past of pain and shattered dreams. Now Lydia is the wife of the Earl of Beaumont, and she must put all the anger and distrust she feels for Hugh behind her in order to find her husband's kidnapped illegitimate daughter, for Hugh has become one of England's topnotch criminal investigators, and if anyone can help them find the missing girl, it's Hugh. But while putting aside her feelings of anger and injury may not be as difficult as she had foreseen, can Lydia also sweep aside the treacherous feeling of passion and tenderness she seems to still harbour for Hugh? <br />It's not an easy thing to do -- writing a novel, that is. And it is even more difficult to write an evenly paced and balanced novel that has two subplots that have to share equal prominence. And unfortunately, in spite of the many promising plot premises, ultimately, Julie Beard's &quot;Midnight Angel&quot; proved to be a bit of a bland read for me. Part of the problem, I felt, was that things were stretched out too thin. Where the kidnapping subplot was concerned there was no sense of urgency. Lydia and Hugh had only a few days to find the missing girl, and yet because of the poor pacing there was no sense of urgency or tension(or if there was, I definitely did not sense this). Clues fell conveniently into their laps with very little investigating on their parts, and given that the authour had gone through the trouble of setting up a rather interesting alter-ego for Lydia, the very fact that this entire plot gambit was very poorly featured throughout the novel was rather frustrating. Also, as the book reached it's finale, the entire kidnapping/mysterious deaths subplot took on elements of the farcical that almost beggared belief mainly because that entire subplot had not (in my opinion) been properly developed.<br />The other problem with this novel was the supposed romance subplot. For me, this subplot lacked energy. We know about the painful history thatlies between Hugh and Lydia, and that Lydia feels a lot of anger towards Hugh. No matter if this anger was justified or not, if Lydia had held onto this anger for at least half the book, it might have made for a more exciting read. As it was, one had to settle for Hugh languishing looks of longing and tenderness for Lydia, and her alternately melting and pushing him away. <br />Unfortunately, in spite of the rather promising subplot premises, &quot;Midnight Angel&quot; didn't exactly take off. The entire novel lacked focus, proper character development and energy. And this was a shame because the book could have been a rather engrossing read.	2003-12-05
882098:US	52830980	R1DQV1Z5JYA01Z	0373292848	166102296	The Earl's Prize	Books	5	7	7	N	N	how I wish more romance novels read like this one did...	&quot;The Earl's Prize&quot; is a nice, unassuming romance novel about a rakish earl and the ordinary and well bred young lady who captures his fancy.<br />Miss Amy Bainbridge knows precisely what means to have a gambler in the family. Her father was a gambler and quite frequently that meant living in less than desirable neighbourhoods, going without enough food or coal -- in short living a life of shabby gentility. Now her brother has grown up to become a gambler as well, and it's beginning to look as if a life of never ending scrimping and scraping is looming in front of Amy when an unexpected piece of good fortune lands at her feet. Amy finds a lottery ticket. And not just any lottery ticket, but a winning one at that. At first Amy thinks that the ticket belongs to her brother, Richard. But when it turns out not to be Richard's ticket, Amy realises that she will have to shed her quiet ways and go into Society in order to find the ticket's rightful owner. But this is a move that fills her with both excitement and dread, for this will bring her all the more into contact with the dreadful Earl of Tallant, a sinfully good-looking gentleman who is a gambler and rake, and who, for some reason or the other, seems bent on pursuing an acquaintance! Can Amy keep her good sense while she searches for the rightful owner of the lottery ticket, or will the Earl turn her head completely and make her forget all propriety... <br />&quot;The Earl's Prize&quot; is a rather typical Regency-era romance novel that revolves around an earl who is not as black as he's been painted, and a young lady who's not as straight-laced as she thought she was -- in other words nothing new under the sun. What makes this novel so very enjoyable then was the manner in which Nicola Cornick allowed for her story to unfold and the two main characters she created. Both Amy and the earl are characters that most readers will be able to take to their hearts and root for them to find their hapily-ever-after ending. As I noted at the very beginning, this is a very nice and unassuming novel that will (unwittingly) steal your heart. A good read.	2003-12-01
890240:US	52830980	R6Z0U9IHQW5QF	0553803484	307659188	The Murder Stone	Books	5	1	2	N	N	an enthralling and gripping read	From the authour that has given us the immensely popular Inspector Ian Rutledge mystery series, comes a deliciously dark and almost Victorian (in tone only) story about murder and revenge. And in spite of the somewhat negative review from Publishers Weekly, all I can say is that I ENJOYED this novel completely, and am recommending it as a must read.<br />Set in the waning years of WWI, and mostly in a small isolated and self contained Devon village, &quot;The Murder Stone&quot; centers on Francesca Hatton's attempts to come to grips with the fact that because of the recent deaths of her grandfather and all her cousins, she has inherited the family's ancestral home and is really all alone. An orphan, Francesca was brought up by her grandfather, Francis, along with her five male cousins who were also orphans. The war has claimed all her cousins, and now a stroke has claimed the life of her beloved grandfather as well. Still reeling from all these fairly recent deaths, Francesca's world is further tilted when a stranger appears a few days before her grandfather's funeral, claiming that Francis Hatton was responsible for his mother's mysterious disappearance.<br />Richard Leighton was a child of eight when his mother inexplicably disappeared one day. The suspicion on the Leighton family's side has always been that Francis Hatton either knew something that could either explain her disappearance, or else that he had a hand in her disappearance. Having just returned from the wars, Richard immediately makes for River's End (the Hatton estate in Devon) when he hears of Francis's death, in hopes that there might be something amongst Francis's papers that may explain what happened to his mother all those years ago. Except that not only is there nothing new to learn, he also has to contend with a furious and hostile Francesca who is naturally outraged that this stranger is accusing her grandfather of having murdered his mother. Unfortunately for Francesca's peace of mind, she has also recently discovered that her grandfather had had secrets that he kept from his family. Frightened at what Richard may uncover about her grandfather, Francesca begins to do some investigating herself, only to discover that there are some secrets she would have been happier never knowing anything about and that some sinister person seems to be watching her from the shadows...<br />What I really enjoyed about &quot;The murder Room&quot; was the tone and mood of the novel. Charles Todd does a wonderful job of imbuing the book with just the right dark tone that encapsulates everything from the unhappiness and grief that Francesca feels about being all alone, the grief of loss, the fear that she feels at what she may discover about the past and the terrible waste that war entails. The sinister menace that Francesca feels at being watched and stalked is also successfully conveyed. For me the book was a bit of a suspenseful read. I made the mistake of starting to read the book at midnight and found that I couldn't put it down until I finished the book, even though I had to go to work the next morning. In my opinion, &quot;The Murder Stone&quot; makes for a compelling and chilling read, and one that should not be missed.	2003-11-24
891700:US	52830980	RCQWA05JGHAZ1	1400041414	10533115	The Murder Room (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #12)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	an excellent read	Not everyone can write a thoughtful and sedately paced mystery novel and still make it a compelling and absorbing read. For that matter, not many mystery writers can get way with devoting about a third of their book to developing the characters of the suspects and murder victim, setting the stage, and imbuing the novel with the right mood and tone before killing off the primary victim. P. D. James, however, is able to pull all of this off and do so brilliantly. For readers more interested in flashier storylines, &quot;The Murder Room&quot; may not be the mystery novel for them; but if you enjoy a quiet, intelligent and sensitive mystery novel, than you'll be in for a treat.<br />The Dupayne Museum, founded by Max Dupayne, is a private and small one dedicated to social and political history between the years of 1919 and 1939. Now, the issue of whether or not to keep the museum running has come up, and the board of trustees (made up of Max's adult children Marcus, Neville and Caroline) must decide whether or not to renew the lease. Neville is all for not renewing the lease and for closing the museum, much to the consternation of all those who work there. And because all three siblings must be unanimous in their decision to keep the museum going, it rather looks as if the Dupayne will soon close its doors. That is until Neville is murdered in a rather horrific manner. Called in to investigate the case, Commander Adam Daglish has a rather small pool of suspects to work with -- Neville's brother and sister, and the staff and volunteers -- all who, in one way or the other, were threatened by Neville's refusal to sign the new lease. Which one of the suspects decided to murder Neville in order to ensure the continued existence of the museum? If solving a perplexing murder isn't enough, Daglish must also face the unhappy truth that his job is getting in the way of his relationship with Emma Lavenham (whom we were first introduced to in &quot;Death in Holy Orders&quot;)...<br/>I enjoyed &quot;The Murder Room&quot; immensely. I liked the manner in which P. D. James constructed her story, taking the time to set the stage, introduce all the characters (so that we knew them all rather intimately), before offing her first victim. I also enjoyed her prose style and the lyrical descriptions of London. The mystery at hand was an intriguing one that was intelligently told, so that if you pay close attention, the identity of the murderer becomes apparent after a while. Some reviewers feel that &quot;The Murder Room&quot; is not one of P. D. James's better efforts --I, however, don't think so. And having read a whole slew of substandard mysteries lately, I can ensure you that &quot;The Murder Room&quot; stands head and shoulders above all those books and is a thoroughly good and worthwhile read. And if I had one complaint, it was at the rather immature attitudes of Daglish's two sidekicks, DS Kate Miskin &amp; DS Piers Tarrant. How these two will ever fare without Daglish's wisdom and compassion I shudder to think.	2003-11-22
894880:US	52830980	R2KL7WPUG8WFB	034546673X	829769989	A Christmas Journey	Books	4	1	2	N	N	a good short story	While &quot;A Christmas Journey&quot; proved to be a wonderfully affecting and poignant short story about forgiveness and the expiation of sins and a wonderful read for a short train journey home from work, honesty does compel me to admit that it is a bit of an expensive read -- $15.95 plus tax for an hour's enjoyment. If you can afford it well and good, otherwise borrow the book from the library. For while &quot;A Christmas Journey&quot; was a well written short story, it does lack the depth and intensity one has come to expect from a really good Anne Perry novel.<br />It's the Christmas season, and Lady Vespasia Cumming-Gould has been invited to spend it at a house party at Omegus Jones's estate (Applecross) in Berkshire. The atmosphere at Applecross is, at first, one of good cheer, hope and romance; until a jealous and cruel remark by one of the guests, Mrs. Isobel Alvie, courses another guest, Gwendoline Kilmuir, to commit suicide. Everyone is upset and angry, and all seem to hold Isobel responsible for Gwendoline's death. Hoping to avert a scandal, Omegus Jones comes up with the notion of having Isobel journey to Scotland in order to inform Gwendoline's mother of her death, deliver a letter that Gwendoline had written to her mother just before she killed herself, and also to explain the part that Isobel herself played in driving the unfortunate woman to her death -- in other words to undertake a journey of expiation for sins committed. And while Isobel is reluctant at first to do this, the dawning realization that she will be ostracized by everyone she knows in society, forces Isobel to agree to undertake the journey. Deeply affected by Gwendoline's death and Isobel's plight (and wanting to get the better of a few malicious members of the house party who would like nothing better than to socially shred Isobel's reputation) Lady Vespasia impulsively offers to accompany Isobel on her journey. But as the two women travel into the heart of Scotland in the middle ofa harsh winter, Lady Vespasia cannot help but wonder about Gwendoline's death and her character. Why had such a meaningless and malicious remark caused such a tragedy? What's in the letter that they are carrying to Scotland? Will it explain why Gwendoline killed herself? And more importantly, will her friend Isobel be able to carry out her task and face a mother's wrath and anguish?<br />I enjoyed reading &quot;A Christmas Journey.&quot; It had all the poignancy and pathos that one would expect from an Anne Perry novel. The short story unfolded smoothly and briskly -- even if it did harp on one particular motif over and over again (Lady Vespasia's Roman interlude) -- and even if the characters were not as well developed as they usually are. However Ms Perry did such an excellent job of providing us with such vivid thumbnail sketches of all involved that the lack of any deeply developed characters was not felt by this reader at all! <br />If I had any quibbles about this book it was that Omegus Jones had such little difficulty with sweeping Gwendoline's death under a rug -- the Justice of the Peace did not make an appearance and there was no inquest. Gwendoline was quickly and quietly buried, while Isoble and Lady Vespasia left for Scotland without any hindrance from the law. So that while the whole idea of a journey of expiation was an interesting plot device, I think that I would have liked to see how Jones would have got the JP to go along with his plan. The other thing was that &quot;A Christmas Journey&quot; was not really very a suspenseful at all. However, because the book was not really a mystery so much as it was a study of people, manners and psychology, the lack of suspense wasn't that much of a factor at all. And indeed Ms Perry's sublime descriptions of the Scottish wilderness in the midst of winter more than made up for this lack. So that on the whole, I'd rate &quot;A Christmas Journey&quot; as a good 4 star read.	2003-11-19
899475:US	52830980	R17EMI0G8864Y3	0345465199	135464941	Full Cry	Books	2	1	2	N	N	takes too long to unfold...	As the other reviewers have already pointed out, the plot synopsis on the dustjacket flap is totally inaccurate, and the mystery subplot of &quot;Full Cry&quot; actually centers on the strange murders of a two homeless alcoholics in Jefferson County, Virginia. <br />The all important New Year's Hunt is about to commence, and in the midst of seeing to it that the hunt takes place without a hitch, mediating between sparring neigbours, and making the all important decision as to who she will chose to be joint-master (and the new president) of the Jefferson Hunt, &quot;Sister&quot; Jane Arnold is resolved to discover who has murdered two drunk vagabonds (one of them being an old childhood friend) no matter what it takes... <br />The problem with &quot;Full Cry?&quot; It just took too long to unfold and get started. &quot;Hotspur&quot; (the previous &quot;Sister&quot; Jane Arnold novel) also took a while to get started; but when it finally did, that book really took off. Whereas I found myself putting down &quot;Full Cry&quot; many times in order to get a few very mundane but necessary chores done. Much of the novel read like a nice long dinner chat between Sister and various other characters as they ruminated over the differences between the generations, genders, the North and the South (of the US), etc. And of course we were treated to pages on end of Sister (or Rita Mae Brown)'s notions on what was wrong with the world. I, probably, was not in the right frame of mind for &quot;Full Cry.&quot; I wanted to unwind by reading an interesting mystery novel. What I got instead was pages and pages of chit-chat -- I mean I was halfway through the book and &quot;Sister&quot; hadn't even begun to initiate any kind of inquiry into the strange deaths! While character development and the description of the Virginian countryside were excellent (as usual), this did not amke up for the slow pace and lack of a tight plot. Fortunately for me this was a borrowed book, so I didn't have the added disappointment of having spent hard earned money on a so-so 2 1/2 star read.	2003-11-16
907636:US	52830980	RKUGVYYZMA1NC	0312983123	361218286	The Heartbreaker	Books	2	3	3	N	N	starts out well, but then...	The Heartbreaker is yet another installment in the &quot;maker&quot; series (&quot;The Matchmaker,&quot; &quot;The Troublemaker&quot; &amp; &quot;The Bridemaker&quot;) that loosely follows the lives and adventures of the Lindford family and friends. And for me, this novel was an exercise is frustration.<br />In an unprecedented move, James Lindford, Viscount Farley, has decided to acknowledge two of his illegitimate children and to take them into his home. Unfortunately, because of his actions, James's fiance breaks off their engagement, and James is forced to leave London for his country estate, where he discovers that it's not all that easy thrying to raise two daughters -- Clarissa, his eldest daughter is both wild and resentful and is causing no end of an uproar; while the baby is finding it difficult to settle in. Help (and salvation) comes in the shape of the prickly Miss Phoebe Churchill. Phoebe is raising her own niece (also illegitimate) by herself, and seems to know just how to handle Clarissa. James wants to hire Phoebe to be his daughters' new governess, but Phoebe demurs partly out of pride and partly because she's seems horrifyingly susceptible to James's good looks and virility. But James is used to having his own way with women, and he knows that given time he will be able to wear down Phoebe's resistance. Will Phoebe's good sense persevere, or will she give in to James's blandishments? <br />I liked the manner in which the authour initially developed the characters of both James and Phoebe. She showed us how much James wanted to do what was best for his daughters and to create a stable and caring environment for them. I also liked how she showed us that there was more to Phoebe than the almost stern and disapproving young lady we first meet, and how the effect of her mother's thwarted desires and her elder sister's loose reputation had influenced how Phoebe acts and thinks. I even liked how Rexanne Becnel portrayed James's eldest daughter, Clarissa,showing us all the uncertainty, anxiety and anger that the little girl felt at being uprooted and forced to live with her aristocratic father in the country. So that when the novel suddenly devolved into the standard &quot;I must bed you because I desire you as much as you desire me, but that there can really be nothing more than sex between us because I'm sort of engaged to another&quot; loop, I felt really cheated. What happened to the caring gentleman who had resolved to change his ways in the earlier chapters? Did he really want another illegitimate child to contend with? Was he perhaps planning to starting his own merchant empire and thought that the best way to do this was to people it with his children? Or perhaps his great desire was to found a musical society, providing all his children were properly talented, of course? In my opinion, &quot;The Heartbreaker&quot; could have been so much more if James and Phoebe had not consummated their relationship. That way, a more romantic courtship could have been developed, and when the young lady that James is 'sort of engaged to' appears, the whole thing could have had a bit more angst to it. And I wouldn't have had to deal with the giant urge I had to brain James with each subsequent page! But that's just me. Other readers may actually not have minded James's very selfish and uncaring behavior.	2003-11-09
907796:US	52830980	R35NWSJKAYKQIS	0451209966	430191594	A Stroke Of Luck (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	an enjoyabel read	Zara Greeley has a mission: to get her two younger brothers safely to England, and to see to it that the brother next to her in age inherits the title and estate that should (rightfully) be his. But things are not so easy: Zara and her brothers have been living overseas (in Crete), and when her father died, Zara had to struggle all by her herself to ensure their safety. Fellow Englishmen (and women) abroad proved no help, and in fact, quite frequently proved to be a detriment. As such, Zara has a rather poor opinion of aristocrats, deeming them all to be rich and useless parasites. Also factoring into her poor opinion of aristocrats is that she has an uphill battle on her hands trying to prove the validity of her brother's rights. Zara's father was estranged from his family because he chose to go his own way, and now an unscrupulous cousin who wants the title and estate for himself is claiming that her brother has no right to anything at all!<br />The Duke of Prestwick is on his way to a remote estate in order to sort out the affairs of one of his cousins. The man claims that he is the rightful heir but fears that an adventuress bent to mischief will hold up things by making a counter claim. Now the duke is very much a London man -- with polished but reserved manners, a bit of an intellectual, and not at all outdoorsy in any way. So that one cannot but help but wonder why he readily falls in with his valet's (Stump) notion that they should sail to the estate in question.The novel itself opens with Stump falling into the sea, and the duke diving in to save him. The pair are saved by Zara and her brothers who fish them out of the sea. Zara, of course, immediate jumps to the conclusion that the duke was drunk and that the plucky Stump had jumped in to save him. The duke's and Zara's relationship steadily go downhill from there-- she thinks he's too arrogant and useless, while he thinks that she's too bossy and unrefined. After a couple of adventures in which both Zaraand the duke learn to grudgingly admire each other, Zara and the duke make it to the estate where Zara learns to her dismay the duke will be mostly responsible for discovering who the rightful heir is. Can she trust the duke, an aristocrat after all, to do the right thing? Zara is torn, for she cannot help but distrust the man that she's become unfathomably attracted to...<br />I rather enjoy the romance novels that Andrea Pickens pens because her primary characters are intelligent, strong and developed with care (even her minor stock characters, like the unscrupulous cousin and aunt, are well developed); and her stories are always interesting and have a lot more going for it than the usual 'a gentleman and lady meeting at a ball/house party and falling in love.' &quot;A Stroke of Luck&quot; fell into the usual Pickens's parameters, and was actually quite an interesting read. Both the duke and Zara have pasts that have coloured and shaped who they have become, and the authour lets us see and appreciate this fully. Unfortunately, I did think that the romance angle could have been developed better -- somehow I came away with the impression that the duke's feelings for Zara were part frustration, part desire, and that love figured into the equation (for at least three quarters of the book) not at all. Other than this one quibble though I'd still vote &quot;A Stroke of Luck,&quot; as a good and worthwhile read.	2003-11-09
917767:US	52830980	R8U3L9WY15KI9	0060502185	73675837	To Tempt a Bride	Books	3	0	2	N	N	secondary character makes the novel more interesting	&quot;To Tempt a Bride&quot; is a follow-up to &quot;To Wed a Stranger&quot; and while it is not as compelling a read as &quot;To Wed a Stranger,&quot; it was still a rather enjoyable read.<br />From the very first time she met him, Camille Croft has been in love with the dashing Eric Ford. And how she wishes that he would reciprocate her feelings. But Camille, while she realizes that she's attractive enough, knows that she's no beauty. And then there is also the insurmountable fact that Camille is too brisk, honest, forthright and outdoorsy to be considered as one of the season's reigning originals (the type of young lady she believes that Eric admires). So that while Eric may stand a friend, Camille really has little hope that he will see her as anything other than the younger sister of a good friend. But as the season progresses Camille begins to hope that Eric may be starting to see her in her whole new light. That is until fate throws an intriguing new obstacle in her path in the shape of Nell Baynes, a beautiful young damsel that Eric rescues from danger. Will Eric fall in love with the elegant and bewitching Nell? And how will Camille cope if he does?<br />While both Camille and Eric were nice enough characters (esp Camille -- how could anyone fail to take Camille with all her fears and unrequited feelings to heart, especially when she's always trying to do the right thing?), what really made this novel interesting was Nell Baynes. Nell is a bit of a mystery for about a quarter of the book, after which who she is and what she is is revealed for the reader's edification. The relationship that develops between Nell and Camille was a rather interesting one, and I thought that Edith Layton did a rather good job of contrasting these two young women who were of similar ages but who were so different in temperament and who had such different dreams and expectations. This made the few 'real' conversations that Nell and Camille had really interesting and compelling. So that while the story of how Camille and Eric finally work their way to each other and happiness was a sweet one, honesty forces me to admit that if were not for Nell, &quot;To Tempt a Bride&quot; may have been a bit of a bland read.	2003-11-01
921855:US	52830980	RAYEZHHH6RGS4	0060092661	982289135	One Kiss From You: Switching Places #2 (Switching Places Series)	Books	3	12	12	N	N	a good read	\\"One Kiss From You\\" is a sequel to \\"Scandalous Again,\\" and faithfully chronicles the adventures of Miss Eleanor de Lacy as she reluctantly agrees to impersonate her cousin, Madeline, the Duchess of Magnus.<br />In a fit of madness, the Duke of Magnus had wagered his daughter's (Madeline, the future Duchess of Magnus) hand in marriage as a stake while gambling. He lost, and subsequently, Madeline found herself engaged to be married to Remington Knight, a rich American. Magdeline, however, was not someone to sit idly by while others decide her fate. And she persuades her gentle cousin, Eleanor (who also acts as her companion), to pretend to be her and to go to London in order to meet Remington Knight, while she tries to figure a way out of her predicament. <br />While Eleanor is reluctant to take part in so foolhardy an enterprise, loyalty to her cousin who took her in when she so desperately needed a home and a friend, makes her agree to the risky plan. But Eleanor is not at all sure if she can pull off this masquerade: Magdeline is flamboyant, autocratic and incredibly courageous -- everything Eleanor is not. And when she finds that she's perilously attracted to this brash and commanding American, Eleanor knows that she's sunk. For all she think about is what it would be like if Remington were really her's. But Remington seems obsessed with the notion of being married to the future duchess. And what Remington's reaction will be when he discovers that he's been wooing the wrong woman, Eleanor dare not contemplate...<br />On the whole I found \\"One Kiss From You\\" to be a slightly more interesting read that \\"Scandalous Again.\\" The story was a compelling one about revenge and murder, with two rather interesting characters at the center of it all. Remington Knight proved to be the rather typical Dodd romance hero -- likable but annoyingly arrogant and sure of himself (and reading about how him becomes fascinated and enthralled by Eleanor was a lot of fun); while in Eleanor we were provided with a heroine that was not quite the usual fare -- Eleanor initially seemed to quiet, timid yet courageous and honourable. But as the novel progressed, so too did Eleanor's character blossom, and she became more sure of herself and her capabilities -- and watching this happen was incredibly satisfying. The plot, however, did not unfold all that quickly but the somewhat sedate pacing did allow for the attraction that develops between Remington and Eleanor to establish \\"legs\\" (in fact some of the interaction between Remington and Eleanor were fairly scotching!). If I had one criticism (aside from my usual complaint about the usuage of twentieth century phrases and terms), it was that for a novel that centered around one man's need for revenge, that part of the plot was never really properly developed. All in all, \\"One Kiss From You\\" was a rather enjoyable read.	2003-10-29
929578:US	52830980	R1P9WULCMZEP2I	140004930X	596030198	The Babes in the Wood: A Chief Inspector Wexford Mystery	Books	5	2	3	N	N	a must read	I remember my first Inspector Wexford mystery novel: &quot;Some Lie and Some Die.&quot; Up till then I had been living on a strict diet of Agatha Christies. Through the Wexford books, a whole new modern world of crime opened up before me, and I was hooked. And I've been a fan ever since. Ruth Rendell's Wexford mystery novels are not like most police procedurals in that they're a lot more character driven then the others, and that Wexford and his team spend a great deal of time trying to establish exactly what kind of people the victims and suspects are/were -- who they are, their past, their involvement with others and what they're capable of. If you're the kind of reader that finds such things fascinating, then &quot;Babes in the Wood&quot; will be a treat to read. But if you prefer constant action and an extremely fast paced kind of book, then you might want to borrow this book from the library instead.<br />It's been raining cats and dogs for weeks, the River Brede has burst its banks, and the people of Kingsmarkham are hunkering down in order to deal with the flooding. And in the midst of all this, a mother 'phones up claiming that her two children are missing and that she thinks that they've drowned. Mr. &amp; Mrs. Dade had decided to go away to Paris for a weekend, leaving their 16 year old son Giles, and their 13 year old daughter, Sophie, in the charge of friend, Joanna Troy. But when the parents returned from their trip, they found their house empty with so sign of Joanna or the teens. A hysterical Mrs. Dade believes that her children have drowned in the river. And while Chief Inspector Wexford doesn't believe that that theory holds any water, (it's too shallow and both the Dade children were, apparently, excellent swimmers), he does get the Subaqua Task Force to check out the woman's fears. The Task Force finds no bodies: wherever the trio are, they're definitely not in the river. As the days pass, and the police are still unable to locate either Joanna or the Dade teens, Wexford begins to fear for the teenagers and to wonder about the people involved in this case, from the very angry Mr. Dade, his very hysterical wife, the missing Giles who has just recently joined a new Christian group, and in the center of it all the elusive Joanna who seems to have few friends and was a bit of a loner...<br />&quot;The Babes in the Wood&quot; is the kind of unassuming book that manages to ensnare so that before you know, you've spent the entire day being enthralled by all that was unfolding before your eyes. Ruth Rendell is a magnificent story teller. The prose style is elegant yet uncomplicated, and the twists and turns in the plot was continuous, unexpected and intriguing. What I especially like about the Wexford books is the manner in which the authour goes into the whys and wherefores of the crime as well of all the characters involved in the story. But this is done so unobtrusively and is incorporated into the story as a whole. With fully realised character portrayals, an interesting storyline, and well paced unfolding of the plot, &quot;The Babes in the Wood&quot; was a truly satisfying read.the Dade teens, Wexford begins to fear for the teenagers and to wonder about the people involved in this case, from the very angry Mr. Dade, his very hysterical wife, the missing Giles who has just recently joined a new Christian group, and in the center of it all the elusive Joanna who seems to have few friends and was a bit of a loner...<br />&quot;The Babes in the Wood&quot; is the kind of unassuming book that manages to ensnare so that before you know, you've spent the entire day being enthralled by all that was unfolding before your eyes. Ruth Rendell is a magnificent story teller. The prose style is elegant yet uncomplicated, and the twists and turns in the plot was continuous, unexpected and intriguing. What I especially like about the Wexford books is the manner in which the authour goes into the whys and wherefores of the crime as well of all the characters involved in the story. But this is done so unobtrusively and is incorporated into the story as a whole. With fully realised character portrayals, an interesting storyline, and well paced unfolding of the plot, &quot;The Babes in the Wood&quot; was a truly satisfying read.	2003-10-23
932467:US	52830980	R2G4239U8MI55W	0312984863	950430890	The Impostor (The Liars Club, Book 2)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	a brilliant follow up to THE PRETENDER	Sir Thorogood, the lampoonist, has been ruffling the feathers of the corrupt and the powerful (even as he's been entertaining everyone else) for quite a while now. So that Dalton Montmorency, Lord Etheridge, is rather surprised when Lord Liverpool, the Prime Minister, 'requests' that the Liars discover who Lord Thorogood is and arrest him. Because there is really no one else he can send out on this particular mission, Montmorency decides to undertake the mission himself. And in order to do so, he decides to pretend to be Lord Thorogood (albeit a very foppish Lord Thorogood) in order to flush the lampoonist out. Instead of which he finds himself being hunted by one particularly foolish and brainless widow...<br />Mrs. Clara Simpson knows that Dalton Montmorency cannot be Lord Thorogood because she's Lord Thorogood! How dare the foolish fribble try to steal her thunder. Clara has been secretly drawing cartoons as Lord Thorogood in order to expose the rich and powerful for the corrupt monsters that they are, and also because she wanted to earn enough money so that she needn't live as a poor relation with her in-laws any more. All was going well until this false Lord Thorogood turned up and starting receiving the accolades that were her due. Now Clara is determined to unmask the rogue -- except that in order to do so she'll have to shed her quiet widow's weeds and her refined manners and pursue the man. Is Clara up to the job? Dalton Montmorency is about to discover that dodging assassins is nothing compared to trying to elude a single-minded and angry young lady resolved to have her pound of flesh...<br />While &quot;The Impostor&quot; is in many ways a worthy sequel to &quot;The Pretender,&quot; I did think that in this novel the spy/intrigue subplot did take a bit of a back seat to the romance subplot. However, Celeste Bradley did such a magnificent job of developing the romance that blossoms between Clara and Dalton, that this slight 'flaw' didn't really matter allthat much. As usual the character portrayals were really good, as was the storyline and the manner in which the authour allowed for the story to unfold. If I had any criticism, it was the that things took unnecessarily long for Dalton and Clara to achieve their happily ever-after ending (a whole extra chapter in fact). But (again) this is a very minor quibble, not worth mentioning. All in all, a magnificent 4 star read.	2003-10-21
935228:US	52830980	RABBJ3WNTIU19	0312984855	462073235	The Pretender (Liars Club, Book 1)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	an excellent beginning to a brilliant new series	I've just finished &quot;The Pretender&quot; &amp; &quot;The Impostor&quot; (the first two books in Celeste Bradley's The Liar's Club series), and all I can say that Regency romance readers are in for a treat! Finally, we readers are being treated as intelligent people with taste and discrimination. No heroes that make your hands itch for a frying pan, no foolish yet feisty heroines, and no storylines that beggar belief! Instead, we have an interesting and compelling storyline, revolving around a hero who deserves the appellation of 'hero' and a heroine who's intelligent, determined and brave. <br />Miss Agatha Cunnington is in a pickle. Her brother, James, is missing and her greedy neighbour (who also happens to be the executor to her dead father's will) is trying to pressure her into marrying his repulsive son. So, Agatha escapes to London in order to find James. Disguising herself as a married woman (Mrs. Agatha Applequist), Agatha hopes to infiltrate society in order to find the &quot;Griffin,&quot; a master spy, whom she suspects knows what has become of James. But her plan hits a snag when because of the suspicions of one particular society matron, she must produce Mr. Applequist and quickly. Fortunately for her, Fate steps in in the shape of a chimney-sweep, Simon Rains. Tall and sinfully handsome, Agatha is sure that if she can pass Simon off as Mr. Applequist, all her troubles will be over. But can she persuade the rough cockney chimney-sweep to cooperate with her plans?<br />Someone is killing off the members of the Liar's Club (a group of rogues and thieves who work as intelligence gatherers for the Crown). And Simon Montague Raines is sure that it is James Cunnington. James has since disappeared, and Simon is sure that Mrs. Applequist (whom he assumes is James's mistress) holds the key to James's whereabouts. All Simon needs to do is to find some way to infiltrate the Applequist household. And what better way than by pretending to be Mr. Applequist? Allseems to be proceeding according to plan, that is, until Simon realizes that Agatha is unlike any other lady he's ever met. Never has met so intelligent, devious and determined a lady -- and she's also kind and compassionate to boot. And it doesn't take Simon long to realize just how deep and inappropriate his feelings for Agatha really are. For Simon fully intends to arrest James on the charge of treason as soon as he finds him. And just how this will affect Agatha is something he dares not contemplate...<br />If you like big Regency romance novels -- the ones with sweeping plot-lines that possess a few twists and turns and moments of poignancy, humour and tenderness, with good character development, and a sizzling attraction between the hero and heroine (where neither of them is in denial about their attraction to each other), than you'll really be pleased with &quot;The Pretender.&quot; Celeste Bradley is a gem of a writer. Somehow she's managed to incorporate all the elements of what makes a book a good romantic read without letting any one element taking over -- the spy subplot is not told at the expense of the romance subplot (or vice versa) and neither subplot is hampered by overblown sex scenes or a prose style that will make you hoot with laughter. Indeed, &quot;The Pretender&quot; is an all around excellent read, that should not to be missed.	2003-10-18
938411:US	52830980	R3UU14BWJQKIB9	0399150781	811489127	The Price of Murder (Sir John Fielding Mysteries)	Books	3	17	18	N	N	enjoyable but lacks suspense	Even though I didn't think that the last few Sir John Fielding mystery novels have been as good as the first four mysteries in the series (&quot;Blind Justice,&quot; &quot;Murder in Grub Street,&quot; Watery Grave&quot; &amp; &quot;Person or Persons Unknown&quot;), I will admit that this latest installment in the series was an enjoyable read -- especially if you enjoy books that are full of historical detail and that are character driven.<br />The discovery of a body of a little six year old girl (Maggie Plummer) pulled from the Thames introduces Sir John and his trusted assistant, Jeremy Proctor to a new kind of criminal horror: the sexual abuse of children. Both Sir John and Jeremy are determined to discover and apprehend those responsible for the Maggie's death -- from the mother who sold her, to the people who brokered the deal, to the monster responsible for violating and murdering Maggie. But their mission is confounded with the mysterious disappearance of the Maggie's mother and the murder of a the Plummer's nosy neighbour. What did the neighbour know? Was she somehow involved in the selling and murder of Maggie? The murderer seems constantly to be one step ahead of Sir John and Jeremy, but both are determined to see justice done, no matter the cost...<br />The problem with &quot;The Price of Murder&quot; was that in spite of the promising plot premise, there was actually very little of it. The focus of the novel was more on the mysterious disappearance of a serving maid, horse racing and Jeremy's relationship with Clarissa (a series regular), and whether or not they would be able to marry soon. The search for the probable child selling ring in the underbelly of London never really materialized, to my disappointment, nor were there any surprising plot twists and turns (essential to a good mystery novel) or red herring suspects. However Bruce Alexander did a wonderful job of bringing seventeenth century England to life, especially that of the horse racing circuit. And I did enjoy the subplot dealing with the missing servant and how Sir John and Jeremy resolved that matter.<br />On the whole, I do think that if you're a fan of the series then &quot;The Price of Murder&quot; should prove to be enjoyable reading (though you might want to get your copy from the library); but if you're new to this series and are looking for a gripping read, try the first few books in this series instead.	2003-10-16
943161:US	52830980	RHBI3QTY6D6BX	0060521902	332291627	A Path of Shadows	Books	5	18	18	N	N	an exciting and suspensful read	Another exciting installment in the Lieutenant Bak of the Medjay police mystery novels. And like previous mysteries in this series, &quot;A Path of Shadows&quot; is intriguing, suspenseful and clever.<br />Lieutenant Bak and his unit are getting ready to leave Waset in order to take up their posts at Mennufer when Bak's commander, Commandant Thuty, asks Bak to take on an investigation into the disappearance of an explorer, Minnakht. Minnakht is the son of Commandant Inebny, the ranking officer at the garrison at Waset, and a friend of Thuty's; and when Minnakht fails to return from his latest trip across the Eastern Desert, his father is naturally quite anxious. According to Minnakht's guide, Senna, Minnakht vanished in the desert somewhere between Kaine and the turquoise mines on the far side of the sea. Apparently Senna had become ill during the trip and Minnakht had decided to proceed without him; but both had agreed to meet at a specific spot later. And when Minnakht failed to make the rendezvous, Senna tried to retrace Minnakht's trail, hoping to find him. But to no avail. Now, both Thuty and Inebny want Bak to make that same fateful trip that Minnakht had across the desert in order to discover what has happened to the young man. Bak on the other hand is quite horrified at the thought of setting out into so hostile a land. But he is curious to discover what became of Minnakht, especially when rumours that Minnakht was looking for gold begin to surface. As Bak, Senna and a few other Medjay officers make their way across the desert, it soon dawns on Bak that the stark and harsh desert is the least of their worries, for someone seems to be keeping an eye on them; and when murder raises its ugly head, Bak cannot help but wonder if there is more to the disappearance of Minnakht than meets the eye...<br />I absolutely love this series. Lauren Haney does a wonderful job of bringing the Egypt of Lieutenant Bak with all it's noise and colour to life. Perfectly depictedalso is the prejudice that of the city dwellers had for the nomads of the desert. As for the mystery in this particular installment, it was clever, intriguing and so carefully paced that the level of suspense became more and more heightened as the book progressed. The Lieutenant Bak mysteries is one of my favourite's -- actually it probably is my favourite. The mysteries are always carefully and meticulously plotted, the historical details are brilliant, and the plots are always clever and suspenseful. And &quot;A Path of Shadows&quot; proved to be no exception to this rule.	2003-10-12
944319:US	52830980	R1RZD4CQZ4Y7IM	0821775529	5463724	A Viscount For Christmas (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	a satisfying read	While &quot;A Viscount For Christmas&quot; is a little more somber and angst-ridden than is the usual Zebra Christmas fare, it still proved to be an interesting and compelling read -- even if things became a tad too complicated towards the end.<br />Miss Olivia Faraday is near the end of her tether: her father's mental health seems to be slipping faster than ever, they practically have no money left, and now her widowed elder sister, Susanna, and her two sons are about to turn up. How is Olivia to stretch the budget in order to house and feed three extra people, especially when Christmas is around the corner? But the crowning worry comes in the shape of Lord Jack Harrow. Olivia's father used to be the consulting agriculturist for Lord Harrow's now deceased uncle. Now Lord Harrow has inherited Littleton Park, and Olivia cannot help but fear that Lord Harrow will retire her father. What would the practically penniless Faradays do then? And where would they go? The very thought that the fate of her family lies in the hands of a care-for-naught fribble like Lord Harrow is enough to make even the most optimistic of women feel bilious! But Olivia has a plan. She will make the useless man see that her father still has a lot to contribute and that he is on the road to recovery. So what if it will mean that she will have to spend an inordinate amount of time with the man? But when Lord Harrow proves to be kind, generous, intelligent and self-effacing, Olivia cannot but fear that in her zeal to prove her father's worth, she has left herself open to a different kind of threat...<br />What makes this novel good is the manner in which the authour allows us to see the changes in Lord Harrow -- from the careless fellow in the first few chapters, to the more responsible landlord at the end of the book. Ms Blair also does a wonderful job of depicting all the worries and angst that Olivia feels and experiences. It is true that Olivia is a bit sour and harsh for most of the book, butfactor in all that she's coping with and going through, and I do think that most readers will forgive her her less than sunny nature. The subplot involving Olivia's sister, Susanna, was rather interesting too. And if I had one complaint, it was that things got a little too complicated towards the end of the book, with Lord Harrow and Olivia talking at cross purposes and the whole missing money bit. On the whole though, &quot;A Viscount for Christmas&quot; was a thoroughly satisfying and enjoyable read, with believable and engaging characters facing real problems. Definitely recommended reading.	2003-10-11
946415:US	52830980	R1V49HP0IMSALD	0425191796	801219005	Letter From Home (Hart, Carolyn G)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	an engrossing read	Even though Carolyn Hart is a well known mystery novelist (authour of the Henrie O. & Death on Demand mystery novels), and even though the shocking murder of Faye Tatum is the central focus of \\"Letter From Home,\\" this particular novel is not really a 'straight' mystery novel. If you're expecting a plethora of perplexing clues, red herring suspects and a few intriguing plot twist and turns, be forewarned, \\"Letter From Home\\" has very few of these stock plot props. What \\"Letter From Home\\" does possess, however, is a gripping story about how the particular events of the summer of 1944 changed the lives of two particular young girls: 14 year old Gretchen Gilman and 16 year old Barbara Tatum.<br />More than 50 years later, journalist Gretchen Gilman receives a letter from her old home town in Oklahoma, reminding her of the shocking events from the summer of 1944. The war was in full swing, the young men were constantly leaving in order to join up, and many of the women have left to work in the factories at other towns; which is precisely why Gretchen is able to land a summer job as the Gazette's newest cub reporter. Gretchen is happy and proud -- she desperately wants to become a real reporter after she graduates, and this is her first real step towards achieving that goal. And then Gretchen's world is rocked when a friend's mother is brutally murdered.<br />Faye Tatum was a bit unconventional for the small town she lived in -- she was an artist, more concerned about her art than maintaining a showroom house and garden. Faye also spoke her mind and didn't suffer fools gladly, much to the fury of the town's preacher, the Reverend Byars. And then Faye is found brutally strangled in her living room. Almost at once scandalous stories about how Faye went out dancing at the Blue Light (a place respectable married women just didn't go) even though her husband was away at a training camp, and of a man seen going into and coming from the Tatum residence late at night, begin to circulate. And when it becomes known that Clyde (Faye's husband, home of furlough) has disappeared, and that he and Faye had quarreled bitterly the night before she was murdered about her frequenting the Blue Light, everyone is sure that Clyde had strangled Faye in anger. Only Barbara refuses to believe that her father had anything to do with her mother's death. But as the hours slip by and political pressure mounts on the police to find Clyde and to quickly resolve Faye's murder, Gretchen cannot help but fear that no one really shares in Barbara's belief in her father's innocence, and that the real killer just may get away with murder...<br />\\"Letter From Home\\" proved to be a gripping read, even if it wasn't a 'straight' mystery novel. From the very first page, when Gretchen starts remembering what happened that fateful summer to the very last page when she finally learns who really killed Faye Tatum, I was enthralled. Carolyn Hart did a magnificent job in evoking the atmosphere and feel of what it was like to live in a small town in the war torn 1940s -- the fears, the giddy need to feel alive, the emptiness of lost dreams, the rigid need to control smaller aspects of one's life, and to have everyone around you conform -- the authour captures all this wonderfully. Her character portrayals were brilliant too, esp her character portrayal of the murdered woman, Faye Tatum. Given that we don't actually 'meet' Faye until after she's been murdered, the very fact that Faye's vivid character seems so alive, manages to holds \\"Letter From Home\\" together, propels the story forward, is a testament of Ms Hart's excellence as a storyteller. Briskly paced, \\"Letter From Home\\" was an absorbing and engrossing read not to be missed.	2003-10-09
951817:US	52830980	R1LJ2SL5NPTRI3	0451209621	334191052	Miss Prestwick's Crusade (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	a good 3 1/2 star read	Miss Prestwick has a mission: to ensure that her nephew is properly recognized as the twelfth Earl of Camberwell. Of course her task is not as simple as it seems: there already is a twelfth Earl of Camberwell -- Edward Beresford, a cousin to the deceased heir, Christopher Beresford; plus the unpalatable truth that she has no physical proof that her sister was actually married Christopher. Add to that the fact she knows (based on bits of information that Christopher has seen fit to divulge) that the present earl, Edward, has always been jealous of Christopher and has always coveted the title. Such a man will no doubt make things really difficult for Helen!<br />However, when Helen confronts Edward, she is surprised and relieved to discover that while he doesn't totally believe her story, he is willing to investigate her claims and to house her nephew, William, her duena, Miss Horatia Barnstable and her, until they discover how exactly things stand. Helen is floored -- she never expected for things to go so smoothly even though she is resolved to see things through and baby William restored to his rightful position -- but grateful for Edward forbearance. But why exactly is Edward so accommodating? Is he not quite so black as Christopher painted? Or does he have some sinister plan up his sleeve? As the days pass and Helen begins to see just how much in tune with Edward she actually is, and how much she actually likes and respects him, she cannot help but wonder about Christopher's claims. Unfortunately, Helen has a few skeletons rattling in her own closet, and as the days pass, and as Edward's agents fail to turn up any evidence of Christopher's marriage and William's legitimacy, Helen cannot help but fear that her secrets will be revealed and that the impact of those secrets will cost William and her dearly...<br />What I liked about \\"Miss Preswick's Crusade\\" was the fact that both Edward and Helen acted in a manner that reflected their ages, maturity and life experiences -- in other words if you rather enjoy Regencies where either the heroine or hero indulges in massive hysterical bouts of infantile behaviour, give this book a miss! However while the romance that developed between Edward and Helen was quite nicely paced, it was also true that it took Helen a long time to reconcile the evidence before her eyes (as to Edward's character) with Christopher's tales -- in fact it took her so long that I sometimes wanted to shake her. However, when one factors in what Helen's past experiences were and what she went through (plus the betrayal that she suffered at the hands of those that should have stood up for her), you can totally understand her hesitation to trust Edward outright. And because Helen kept waffling on whether or not she could trust Edward, the pacing of the storyline was not always smooth -- in fact things really slowed down after the first quarter of the book. On the whole though, if you're in the mood for a good grown-up romance novel, complete with a believable hero and heroine, then definitely \\"Miss Preswick's Crusade\\" will completely satisfy.	2003-10-05
952748:US	52830980	R2Q0SL30C4OZXR	0821775502	909168460	My Lord Eternity (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	27	28	N	N	hero, heroine &amp; villain make this a compelling read	&quot;My Lord Eternity&quot; is the second installment in Debbie Raleigh's vampire trilogy, and while much of it was 'a-bit-of-the-same' especially if you've only recently read &quot;My Lord Vampire,&quot; this second Immortal Rogues book still makes for absorbing reading because of the authour's character portrayals.<br />To recapitulate: all the vampires have been living peacefully behind the Veil (a reality that was created by the most powerful and wisest of vampires, Nefri, with the help of a powerful Medallion), for the past 200 years. Now, certain renegade vampires have left the Veil and have ventured back into the mortal world in order to find the Medallion. These renegades want to force the vampires back into the mortal world, and they also want to wield the enormous power that would come to them if they possessed the Medallion. Obtaining the Medallion however will not be so easy. For Nefri, sensing their evil intent, had divided the Medallion into three and had given the three pieces to three different mortal maidens. She has bound these maidens to the Medallions so that the Medallions can never be forcibly taken from them. Only the women have the power to give their amulets freely to whomsoever they chose. Now that ladies are being threatened by these renegade vampires, it is up to the three champion vampires, chosen by the Great Council, to protect these ladies and the Medallions. &quot;My Lord Eternity&quot; focuses on the vampire Lucien Valin, and his struggle to keep safe the lady he's been assigned to protect, the vulnerable yet fiercely independent Jocelyn Kingly.<br />Miss Jocelyn Kingly spends much of her time and money trying to help those less fortunate than her. A sudden hole in her pocketbook however forces Jocelyn to do the unthinkable: take in a lodger. Her lodger just happens to be Lucien Valin, an incredibly handsome but aggravating and arrogant man who keeps insisting on insinuating himself into her life. But when a mad killer, loose on the London streets starts stalking her, Jocelyn cannot deny just how thankful she is to have Lucien in her corner, even if he has slipped through the careful armour she has protected herself with. And having suffered pain and betrayal once before, Jocelyn cannot help but fear what this fascination and dependence on Lucien will cost her...<br />Even though Lucien knows that other vampires see him s a careless and frippery sort of fellow, he never doubted his ability to protect the lady he had been assigned and the Medallion in her keeping. That is until he met Jocelyn Kingly and fell for her beauty, intelligence and integrity. Now he fears that his feelings for Jocelyn will get in the way of his mission, even as he fears what will happen when Jocelyn learns that he is a vampire. Will Jocelyn and Lucien overcome their fears and confide in each other? Will Jocelyn turn from him in disgust? Or will she understand that in spite of what and who he is, that his love for her is true and eternal?<br />As I noted before what makes &quot;My Lord Vampire&quot; a truly compelling read is the manner in which Debbie Raleigh fleshes out the characters of Jocelyn and Lucien. Both characters have doubts about their capabilities, the authour shows us this as well as how both characters are actually strong and true in their own right. The attraction that both Lucien and Jocelyn feel for each other is fairly palpable and if it wasn't for my own particular inclination to dislike Lucien's arrogant overpowering ways (and his rather idiotic habit of referring to Jocelyn as 'my dove'), I might have found the book to be a more romantic read. However, also brilliantly done was the authour's vivid portrayal of the villainous vampire who's hunting Jocelyn. So that on the whole, I'd have to say that &quot;My Lord Eternity&quot; was a good and compelling read that should not be overlooked, esp if you're a fan of the vampire genre.	2003-10-04
954088:US	52830980	R1R0U3PGA8UO11	082177493X	839860887	His Lordship's Holiday Surprise (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	a charming &amp; enjoyable read	It's that time of year again, when bookstores are flooded with Christmas titles (even if it is early Oct). This year, I made the happy choice of reading Kate Huntington's &quot;His Lordship's Holiday Surprise&quot; first. It turned out to be a good decision on my part because the novel was a truly satisfying read -- romantic, whimsical and full of Christmassy good cheer.<br />Miss Augusta Oglethrope is literally at her wit's end: her nit-witted younger sister (Clarissa) has suddenly decamped London (in order to 'think'), and has left Augusta in sole charge of her three rambunctious children. Determined to find her sister, Augusta grimly makes for the Marquess of Ardath's hunting lodge, sure that her sister has abandoned her children in order to romp with the rakish Ardath. But her hopes are completely dashed when she finds a morose and dejected Ardath and no sign of Clarissa at all (Ardath had proposed marriage to Clarissa, but instead of accepting his offer with all alacrity, the merry widow had rejected Ardath, and he has been comforting himself with alcohol). <br />Augusta is tired and scared and not at all sure what to do next, when Ardath chivalrously steps forward and offers her his help -- he will get the Bow Street Runners to begin searching for Clarissa, and help Augusta care for her niece and nephews. As the days pass with no news from Clarissa, and as Augusta, Ardath and the children try to cope with Clarissa's bewildering absense, something unexpected develops between the no nonsense bluestocking and the rakish Ardath: friendship and mutual respect. In fact their relationship is on the threshold of developing into something warmer and a lot more satisfying. But at the back of both their minds is the worry about Clarissa's fate and whereabouts. Where is Clarissa? Is she all right? And what will Augusta and Ardath do when Clarissa returns and decides that she wants to marry Ardath afterall?<br />&quot;His Lordship's Holiday Surprise&quot; was a very satisfying read. The story was a good one, and the manner in which Kate Huntington fleshed out her characters and the romance between Ardath and Augusta -- tentative and flirtatious in parts, and yet with that romantic sizzle we all would like our romantic heroes and heroines to have -- absolutely brilliant. I also thought that the authour had done a good job in conveying Augusta's panic when she realizes just how much the children have (and will) changed her life (esp if Clarissa never returns). And the manner in which Kate Huntington gradually revealed the full scope of Ardath's character -- from rakish and seemingly a care-for-naught at the beginning of the book, to a responsible and caring gentleman in subsequent chapters -- was really well done. The only character I wasn't partial to was Augusta's niece, Cynthia. I know the child was only supposed to be four, but I had rather hoped that Augusta would have dealt with some of Cynthia's less than desirable characteristics. But then you can't have everything!<br />All in all, &quot;His Lordship's Holiday Surprise&quot; was a terrific read. And if you're looking for an enjoyable and charming Christmassy read, you can't go very wrong with this latest Kate Huntington offering.	2003-10-03
960589:US	52830980	R2B6ETANE016JH	0821775499	537975656	My Lord Vampire (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	30	33	N	N	a good read	This is a new Regency-era trilogy from Debbie Raleigh that focuses on three vampires and the ladies who hold the their futures as well as that of their kind in their hands.<br />For almost two hundred years, most vampires have forsaken the mortal world, to live in peace and serenity behind the Veil. The greatest of all vampires, Nefri, had used a powerful Medallion to create the Veil. But when Nefri had sensed some impending threat, she took the Medallion, divided it into three, and gave it to three maidens to keep and protect. Now three vampires hungry for power have slipped through the Veil and have ventured into the human world in order to find these three Medallions. And it is up to Gideon Ravel and his cousins Lucien and Sebastian to find these maidens first and to protect them and the Medallions form these renegades. And in &quot;My Lord Vampire&quot; we're offered Gideon's and Simone's (the lady he's been selected to protect) story.<br />Simone Gilbert has spent a lot of time and effort establishing herself as one of London's premier drawing room hostesses. And she's used her startling beauty, intelligence and wits to maintain her position and to keep her court of admirers dancing to her tune. The entry of two men into her life however, soon turns her world upside down -- one of the gentlemen in Tristan Soltern, a smooth mannered and cold man who makes her feel threatened and uncomfortable; the other gentleman is Gideon Ravel, an arrogant and incredibly handsome man who refuses to bend his will to her's but who makes her pulses race wildly. He says that he's there to protect her, but she suspects that he only wants to claim her as a conquest. That is until Simone is threatened, and a past that she has long kept secret might be revealed. Can she trust Gideon to help her? And will he help her or turn from her in disgust? <br />My one advice to anyone to who hasn't read this book yet and who enjoys novels featuring vampires is not to read the blurb at the back of the book. Far too much of the plot is given away there so that it becomes almost pointless to consider buying and reading &quot;My Lord Vampire&quot; -- this is not a mystery novel after all, and we already know that the hero and heroine will vanquish the villain and live happily-ever-after. The authour has taken time and effort to establish a small plot twist in order to keep things interesting, so one can only wonder why the people and Zebra saw fit to reveal much of the plot twist at the back of the book!<br />Aside from this plot twist, the other factor that makes this novel worth reading is the character of the heroine. Simone is not always likable. In fact there is an element of coldness and arrogance in her that is almost off-putting. However, somewhere in the middle of the book, her courage and resilience is revealed. Simone is a fighter and one cannot help but admire this character, esp after all the secrets of her past are revealed and you come to understand her past actions. The story flowed smoothly and evenly. Ms Raleigh spends an equal amount of time establishing the attraction that flows between Gideon and Simone, as well developing the subplot that focuses on the threat to the vampires that live behind the Veil. So, all in all, I'd rate &quot;My Lord Vampire&quot; as a good read.	2003-09-27
961566:US	52830980	RH0ABA3G8WHM1	0821775642	566146404	Cupid's Dart (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	this Regency romp needed a little more froth	With three interconnecting subplots/romances and a few funny episodes all involving a dog named Lump, \\"Cupid's Dart\\" may be safely categorized as a lighthearted Regency romp. But did it make for enjoyable and compelling reading? I've actually read better Regency romps (by inimitable Georgette Heyer for example); on the other hand, \\"Cupid's Dart\\" did have its entertaining moments, even if was a little bewildering at times.<br />Miss Georgina Halliday is leading the quiet life in Brighton (with her aunt and convalescing brother, Andrew), when two old friends (separately) descend on her, each bringing confusion and chaos in their wake. First, a gentleman she's long been in love with but whom she's not seen for years, Lord Garth Warwick, mistakes her for a lightskirt, and kisses her passionately on a deserted Brighton Beach strip; and then an old school friend, the beautiful but incredibly flighty Marigold, turns up at her doorstep demanding that Georgina help her out of the latest fix she's gotten herself into. Soon, Georgina doesn't know if she's coming or going as she tries to juggle account books, her reawakened feelings for Garth, and her attempts to figure out just exactly what kind of trouble Marigold is in (esp since Marigold seems incapable of telling a straight and coherent story)!<br />\\"Cupid's Dart\\" was not a bad read. It was actually quite entertaining. The trouble was that it was also sometimes a little confusing. Garth's story for example, and why he's lived so isolated from Society for so long (and why he was so hesitant to court Georgina more openly) comes out in fits and starts throughout the novel. (Likewise the reason why Georgina is living in straightened circumstances in Brighton and why she quarreled with most of her family.) Since \\"Cupid's Dart\\" wasn't a mystery novel, I personally don't think that it would have detracted from anyone's enjoyment of the book if the details of Garth's and Georgina's story (what they were to each other in the past and where they stood right now) had been clearly laid out from the very beginning. Especially since the other two subplots involving the birdbrained Marigold, and Andrew's involvement in the romantic affairs of a plain heiress, were entertaining in their own right. And speaking of the plain heiress, I couldn't quite figure her out. She seemed to be a little poor spirited for most of the book, but suddenly in the last few chapters grew to be astute, self aware and extremely plucky. Did the change come about because she had finally grown as a character? It was difficult to say because nothing about her actions prior to what happens in last 50 pages would have prepared you for the suddenly capable heiress. Another confusing issue: Georgina is 'Miss Georgina Halliday' in the first half of the book, and 'Lady Georgina' in the second half -- did I miss something somewhere, or was it just an editing mistake?<br />So, to go back to my original question: was \\"Cupid's Dart\\" a worthwhile buy/read? I enjoyed much of the book -- the stories were good ones, and the character portrayals weren't bad either. But for me, the trouble lay in that there could have been a smoother and less confusing telling of Garth and Georgina's story (also I badly wanted to know more of that had happened to Garth and Georgina prior to what takes place in the book). And because Garth and Georgina were the featured hero & heroine, and the focal point of \\"Cupid's Dart,\\" I'd have to say that the book wasn't a standout example of what a Regency romp should be.	2003-09-26
963448:US	52830980	R2AUKT4R03KU5Q	0451209648	17270103	A Lady in Disguise (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	a good read in spite of the hurried and sudden ending	All in all, &quot;Lady in Disguise&quot; was a rather satisfying and magical read; and it definitely would have received a 5 star rating from me even it wasn't for the fact that it did suffer from poor pacing towards the end of the book.<br />Tired of being hemmed in by protocol and proper behaviour, Lady Emma Weston, the niece of the visiting Russian diplomat, Count Suravov, has escaped from the Pulteney Hotel, disguised as a maid, in order to enjoy the London sights. Much as Lady Emma loves her aunt and uncle, and much as she's been grateful to them for having taken her in when her parents died, she has found her life at Tsar Alexander's court to be rather stifling. Lady Emma had rather hoped that being back in England again would mean a little relaxing of all the rules about protocol and proper behaviour. Unfortunately, she's found life in London, so far, to be as stifling as life in St. Petersburg. And so, she's  decided to slip out, in order to enjoy a few hours respite. And she was enjoying herself quite a bit until she was accosted by a lout. Fortunately, she's rescued by a very dashing and handsome Englishman whom she promptly (and unwisely) looses her heart to.<br />Except that her Englishman is no ordinary Englishman, he's actually Jack Howard, the Viscount St. Albans, and he's a spy in His Majesty's secret service. And it is while he's out (dressed as an underpaid secretary) delivering secret papers to Count Suvarov, that he runs into the Count's lovely niece, Lady Emma. Now Jack recognizes Lady Emma (he'd been introduced to her a few nights before); but it soon becomes clear to him that she does not recollect having met him at all. Half in love with Lady Emma because of her dazzling looks and her dreamy eyes, Jack decides to play along, little dreaming that he would find himself totally in love with the bewitching Lady Emma by the time their day together is over. To be able to meet Lady Emma again and spend more time with her is all Jack can think of. And yet what will Lady Emma say when she discovers his charade (as she will sooner or later), and can he persuade her to overlook his deceit and to carry on looking at him with her heart in her eyes?<br />I don't know if this has ever happened to you, but here's what happened to me: I was enjoying the book enormously -- the nice and sedate pace at which things were unfolding between Jack and Emma, the manner in which the authour had fleshed out Jack's and Emma's characters (as well as a few others -- Madame Ana, Bertie Stonwich, Sir Jeremy Ashbey, Emma's aunt, Lady Lydia, and Jack's mother, Jane), as well as the slightly darker subplot that was developing in tandem to the main plot involving the Jack and Emma's romance, when suddenly everything moved at lightening speed (in the last 15 odd pages), to a shocking climax, with several issues still left hanging (in my opinion) in midair. And since this is supposed to be a Signet SUPER Regency romance (which I took to mean a little longer than the usual 200 odd pages format), I had rather expected everything to be resolved a little more satisfactorily and a lot more smoothly. For example, how does Lady Emma take the news that she's married to a spy? Will Jack give up spying in favour of a quiet life with Emma? Was there something even more sinister to the villain's fixation on Lady Emma than was indicated with the hurried ending? I wanted these questions answered, and was rather disappointed when they weren't.<br />On the whole though, &quot;Lady in Disguise&quot; is a rather magical and satisfying story of two lonely people who find love and fulfillment in each other -- and if that's not a good enough recommendation, I really don't know what is.d yet what will Lady Emma say when she discovers his charade (as she will sooner or later), and can he persuade her to overlook his deceit and to carry on looking at him with her heart in her eyes?<br />I don't know if this has ever happened to you, but here's what happened to me: I was enjoying the book enormously -- the nice and sedate pace at which things were unfolding between Jack and Emma, the manner in which the authour had fleshed out Jack's and Emma's characters (as well as a few others -- Madame Ana, Bertie Stonwich, Sir Jeremy Ashbey, Emma's aunt, Lady Lydia, and Jack's mother, Jane), as well as the slightly darker subplot that was developing in tandem to the main plot involving the Jack and Emma's romance, when suddenly everything moved at lightening speed (in the last 15 odd pages), to a shocking climax, with several issues still left hanging (in my opinion) in midair. And since this is supposed to be a Signet SUPER Regency romance (which I took to mean a little longer than the usual 200 odd pages format), I had rather expected everything to be resolved a little more satisfactorily and a lot more smoothly. For example, how does Lady Emma take the news that she's married to a spy? Will Jack give up spying in favour of a quiet life with Emma? Was there something even more sinister to the villain's fixation on Lady Emma than was indicated with the hurried ending? I wanted these questions answered, and was rather disappointed when they weren't. <br />On the whole though, &quot;Lady in Disguise&quot; is a rather magical and satisfying story of two lonely people who find love and fulfillment in each other -- and if that's not a good enough recommendation, I really don't know what is.	2003-09-25
964907:US	52830980	R1923YZUMP06JN	1575668297	60371667	Intent To Harm (Kali O'Brien Mysteries)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	a page turner	Kali O' Brien has a rather intriguing new client: a mysterious woman who will not say who she is or why she wants to hire Kali, and who insists that they meet for the first time at a remote park near Lake Tahoe (rather than at Kali offices in San Francisco) in order to decide whether or not she will hire Kali. But Kali interests are engaged, and she agrees to meet her potential new client at the park. Unfortunately, almost as soon as Kali makes contact with the woman, and before the woman can reveal who she is and why she wants to retain Kali, both Kali and the woman are attacked -- the woman dies, and Kali herself suffers a rather serious gun shot wound to her shoulder. <br />From the police investigation of the shooting, Kali learns that her potential client was Betty Arnold, a quiet middle-aged woman who seems to have led an uneventful and blameless life. And when the police quickly arrest a young Hispanic male, known for his quick temper, and who had apparently had a traffic altercation with Betty earlier that day, many are convinced that shooter has been apprehended. But Kali is not so sure -- esp since the alleged shooter just happens to be someone Kali's cousin knows (and somone Kali's cousin is convinced couldn't have committed the crime). Determined to discover why Betty was murdered, Kali starts digging into Betty's background, and finds herself in the middle of a decade's old murder/disapperance case, and entangled with a ruthless murderer who's determined to stop Kali at any cost...<br />Personally speaking, I rather enjoyed this latest Kali O' Brien mystery novel in spite of the few problems I had with the book. For example, there is an element of coincidence that almost beggared belief (I won't go into this anymore so as not to venture into the realm of plot spoilers); and I did find it rather difficult to take the character of the murderer seriously -- he seemed almost like a caricature of what a cold blooded hired murderer would be like. However, Jonnie Jacobs's crisp narrative style, and the brisk rate at which she allowed the plot to unfold, together with her strong female character portrayals, made &quot;Intent to Harm&quot; quite the engaging page turner, and a rather fast and compelling read. All in all, the perfect relaxing weekend read.	2003-09-24
965906:US	52830980	R6B9BP7A79RCQ	0451209370	392949360	A Twist of Fate (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	mixed feelings about this book...	&quot;Twist of Fate&quot; sounded like my kind of book: a hero who is sensitive and who's not an over-sexed woman hater with an enormous ego, paired with a heroine who's not overwhelmingly beautiful and high spirited, in a grown-up romance novel all about true love and second chances at happiness (no spy or jealous ex-girlfriends lurking in the bushes, in other words); and yet it took me  week to finish this book! And that was because, unfortunately, in spite of all these promising premises, &quot;Twist of Fate&quot; got stuck in one particular groove (Madeline's feelings of unworthiness) and just never really came unglued enough to become interesting.<br />Lord David Winterbrook is riding hard through the wintery Berkshire landscape when he comes across a lady stranded in a gig. Being the gentleman that he is, he at once offers to help, only to fall in love with this charming stranger as soon as he claps eyes on her -- apparently there is a legend about Winterbrook men being able to recognize their true loves at first sight. And Lord David is sure that he has met his destiny. But how to proceed? <br />A series of circumstances sees to it that Lord David spends some time at Madeline Graves's (the lady he assissted) cottage. And everything he learns about her convinces him of her nobility, compassion and sweetness of nature. But Madeline is a lady who has been treated badly both by her father and her dead husband, and she's also partially deaf and suffers from low self-esteem. Can a lord who was sure that he was doomed to spend the rest of his life alone, persuade a skittish lady to grasp for that second chance at love with him?<br />There were two reasons why I persevered with &quot;A Twist of Fate&quot; -- 1) because two reviewers I rather admire have touted Susannah Carleton's previous novels as worthwhile reads, and 2) because, at first glance, both the principal characters and the plot premise really appealed to me. However, without getting into the realm of plot spoilers, because there was very little plot-conflict to be overcome, there was practically nothing to anticipate. This is a romance novel and we all know how things will eventually end, but reading about the many (or few) obstacles in the paths of the hero and heroine is what makes reading romance novels so irresistible and compelling (take Austen's &quot;Sense and Sensibility&quot; for example). Whatever obstacles that lay in Lord David's and Madeline's paths were quickly and summarily dealt with, and this left me with mixed feelings -- I liked the adult approach to the novel but felt that things could have been slightly 'meatier'. <br />So, was the novel a worthwhile read? Character-wise, yes; story-wise, perhaps --  depending totally on what your expectations are. I felt that there could have been a little more plot conflict. But that's just my conclusion. Your reaction may be quite different.	2003-09-23
969077:US	52830980	RQFG00K64ISVR	0765300206	342706508	Lucrezia Borgia and the Mother of Poisons	Books	4	5	5	N	N	an enjoyable and riveting read	Lucrezia has but recently returned to court from the Convent of Corpus Domini when her husband, Alfonso d'Este, publicly accuses her of having had a hand in poisoning Bianca Tedaldo -- one of the unwanted ladies that her father-in-law, the Duke, had installed as her ladies-in-waiting, and Alfonso's (or so he claims) latest mistress. At first, Lucrezia is devastated at the accusation; but then she begins to reflect: Bianca was hardly the type of lady that Alfonso would ever be attracted to, even if she was rather pretty -- Alfonso prefers his women coarser and cleverer, and Bianca wasn't exactly bright. So why was Alfonso accusing her of murder? Realizing that people were going to start whispering about her all over again (because of who she is and all the scandal attached to her name) and suspecting her of murder (and worse), Lucrezia is determined to discover who murdered Bianca and why. And if she can discover exactly what her enigmatic husband (who she has began to develop unexpected feelings for) is up to, so much the better...<br />&quot;Lucrezia Borgia and the Mother of Poisons&quot; proved to be a fascinating read. With vivid descriptions and well chosen phrases, Roberta Gellis brings to life the vivid colour and pageantry of the d'Este court at Ferrara. Ms Gellis's grasp of what was going on (both historically and politically) was very evident as well. And these were the bits of the book that I really enjoyed and what made reading this book such a pleasure. However, while the pacing was fairly tight and the suspense level rather high, mystery-wise, things only really picked up about three-quarter way through the book. But this is definitely something that will not trouble too many people, unless,  that is, you're someone who tries to solve the mystery at hand before the authour reveals all. However, &quot;Lucrezia and the Mother of Poisons&quot; was an engrossing and riveting read, worth touting as a worthwhile read.	2003-09-20
969332:US	52830980	RGN0FH2H69ZUU	0312207697	367982095	Agatha Raisin and the Haunted House (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 14)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	an enjoyable, light mystery	After having wasted so much time and effort on men, Agatha Raisin has had enough. She's going to swear off men, and spend her time peacefully pottering about her garden and house, and playing with her cats. Even the realization that she has a new and good looking neighbour, Paul Chatterton, barely raises her pulse. That is until Paul turns up at her doorstep, oozing charm and suggesting that they team up together in order to solve the mystery of who's haunting old and rich Mrs. Witherspoon from the neighbouring village of Hebberdon. Suddenly all of Agatha's repressed feelings are surging to the fore again as she begins to fantasize about solving the mystery single-handedly and winning Paul's love and approval. But Paul is married and Mrs. Witherspoon ends up dead under highly suspicious circumstances. Why would anyone have wanted to end the old lady's life? Agatha is determined to solve this perplexing mystery (hopefully with Paul's help), especially after the nasty and hostile Detective Inspector Runcorn warns her off interfering with his case...<br />If you're looking for a fast, light read, then this latest Agatha Raisin mystery novel should do amply. This particular installment is a lot less dark -- Agatha has matured some, is slowly coming out of her obsession with the now absent James Lacey, and is learning (somewhat) to cope with her feelings of pain, anger and rejection. Of course, hope still springs eternal and Agatha, while she may tell herself she's given up on men, still has hopes that she'll find someone wonderful who will love and accept her as she is -- hence the hopes that center on her new neighbour Paul. However, while this latest Agatha Raisin novel is a little more upbeat, the old Agatha with all her old insecurities, bluntness and single-minded drive is back in full strength, and that is something worth celebrating.<br />The book unfolded briskly if not always smoothly, but M. C. Beaton's brilliance at fleshing out scenes and characters more than made up for this not always smooth unfolding of the plot. I'm a big Agatha Raisin fan and I'll admit to some biasness where the Agatha Raisin books are concerned, so you'll have to bear this in mind when reading my review; anyway, here's my final say on &quot;Agatha Raisin and the Haunted House&quot;: if you're partial to LIGHT mysteries set in small English villages, that are fast and NOT particularly deep reads, read this book. Otherwise, try something else.	2003-09-20
979260:US	52830980	R3A4PVZEM7IUO4	0821775685	576150315	Seducing Sybilla (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	0	1	N	N	supposedly sensible heroine too emotional for my tastes	For me, &quot;Seducing Sybilla&quot; turned out to be a disappointing read. And that was because I couldn't understand how any romantic hero could fall for so hysterical, immature and hot-tempered a heroine as Sybilla Smethwick.<br />After so many years of being ignored by her in-laws, the long widowed Lady Honoria Ampthill is greeted with the news that her brother-in-law, Augustus Swaffam, the ninth Earl of Ampthill, wants to reestablish ties with her and her son, George. Both Honoria and Sybilla, Honoria's younger sister, are natural wary about Augustus's sudden interest in them, but because George is Augustus's heir, Honoria decides to concede to Augustus's expectations. Sybilla however is determined not to be won over easily and to protect her sister and her nephew from the high-handed Ampthills. That is until a string of almost fatal accidents begin to dog George's footsteps. Now Sybilla must put aside her reservations about Augustus and work with him in order to protect George. And the more time she spends with Augustus, the more she comes to like and esteem him. But Sybilla has privately resolved that her happiness and that of Honoria's and George's can only be assured if the Ampthills keep their distance. How then is she to reconcile her growing attraction for Augustus with her need to remove her family from the Ampthills's sphere?<br />From the blurb at the back of the dustjacket, I was led to believe that Sybilla was the more sensible, practical and intelligent of the Smethwick sisters, and that she spent a lot of her time taking care of her sister and her nephew. This, proved not to be not completely true. Honoria is actually the more sensible, intelligent and practical sister. And both sisters are suspicious and wary about the Swaffhams sudden interest in Honoria and George -- not just Sybilla. Sybilla in reality was quick to judge, fly of the handle and blame the hero, Augutus Swaffham, for every unfortunate incident that befell her, Honoria and her nephew George. Her apologies, once she had realized just how much she had erred left a lot to be desired as well. I suspect that the blurb at the back of the book was the reason why I was so disappointed with Sybilla. Whether the fault was mine for misinterpreting the plot synopsis, or how the plot synopsis was written, I was just unable to cope with the very often angry, suspicious and hysterical Sybilla. Which brings me to the other thing I found sadly lacking in &quot;Seducing Sybilla&quot; -- the utter lack of any kind of romantic spark between Sybilla and Augustus. Very quickly we come to realize that Augustus is drawn to Sybilla's beauty and her intelligence. I was never quite sure what Sybilla found attractive about Augustus save that he was, like her, interested in engineering. I probably missed something somewhere since I spent a lot of time wondering why Augustus persisted in his pursuit of this tiresome heroine! <br />Storywise, however, &quot;Seducing Sybilla&quot; is a rather good one even if you can guess the identity of the villain from the very beginning. And I thought that Madeline Conway did a really good job of establishing the characters of Honoria, Sybilla, Augustus and the Dowager Lady Ampthill. Although, I know that I would have liked it better if Ms Conway had spent more time on reestablishing the relationship between Augustus and his mother than on the who-is-out-to-murder-George subplot. But that is just a personal observation on my part. All in all, if I had had more sympathy for Sybilla, &quot;Seducing Sybilla&quot; would have rated a good 3 star read; but because I truly had no patience for this overly emotional heroine, I've had to reluctantly give &quot;Seducing Sybilla&quot; a 2 star rating.	2003-09-11
987204:US	52830980	R1R5AOZZUC10KB	0312982291	964390652	One Wild Night (Kenyon Family Novels)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	an engaging read inspite of certain plot &quot;niggles&quot;	When Lady Charlotte Quinton receives news that her grandmother and her grandmother's two closest friends (affectionately known as the Rosebuds) were involved in a near fatal carriage accident, she immediately leaves her secluded Yorkshire home and makes for London -- or more exactly for Brand Villers, the fifth Earl of Faversham (and her bete noire)'s London house. (Readers familiar with the Kenyon brother/Rosebud series may remember Charlotte as the spoilt anti-heroine from &quot;Romancing the Rogue&quot;). But if being in the same room as Brand is enough to threaten Charlotte with a fit of the megrims, the knowledge that someone is out to harm the Rosebuds will definitely do it. Which according to Brand, is exactly what may have happened.<br />Someone has been killing off the notorious members of now disbanded Lucifer League over the past couple of months. And Brand, once a member of that club, has been trying to discover who may be behind the murders. His fear is that someone may have struck out at the Rosebuds because of his investigation and because the Rosebud themselves had a hand in causing the Lucifer League to disband. It is Brand's contention that one of the members of the League is trying to bury his past association with the league. <br />Charlotte of course wants to help Brand discover the identity of the murderer and help protect the Rosebuds. But Brand is still suspicious of Charlotte. He doesn't think that she's changed at all and still sees her as the bitter and troublesome young lady she used to be. Never mind that Charlotte seems to inspire a lot of lustful thoughts in him! (Obviously that just proves that she's trouble!) But Charlotte refuses to standby and wait for someone to try and get to the Rosebuds again, and she determined to help Brand with his investigation. (Hence her decision to agree to pose as Brand's mistress. Now why would a young woman who wants to marry and have children decide to do the one thing that would put an end to her dreams of a respectable marriage?) Will Charlotte be able to persuade Brand to accept her help and will she be able to cope with the reawakening of her desire (so long repressed) for him? Especially since he seems to feel nothing but contempt for her?<br />The plot premise of &quot;One Wild Night&quot; was a rather good one -- the interweaving of a romance subplot between two people who are reluctantly attracted to each other and who are constantly at daggers drawn, with a hunt for an elusive and dangerous murderer. I also found the heroine of the novel, Lady Charlotte Quinton really engaging, and thought that the authour had done a wonderful job of redeeming the previously unlikable Lady Charlotte, and showing us just how much this character had changed for the better. The hero, Brand Villers, unfortunately, left a lot to be desired. Unlike Charlotte, Brand had not matured with time, and he came across as being completely immature, spoilt and a little too obsessed with his desires and needs. Yes, he's had his share of hard knocks, but unlike Charlotte, he also seems to have chosen to sink rather than to turn his life around and do some good. He also spent for too much time thinking about how it would feel to bed Charlotte, in spite of her shrewish ways, and not a lot time following up investigative leads. Which leads me to my other &quot;niggle&quot; -- for someone determined to discover who the murderer actually was, Brand was a really poor detective. Getting Charlotte alone in some dark corner and keeping her away from other gentlemen seemed to be his main objective. And because the investigative subplot was not that well developed, the sense of suspense and urgency was not always there, thus making &quot;One Wild Night&quot; not that exciting a read.<br />On the other hand, if you're a fan of the Rosebud series and enjoy the interconnecting story arcs, then &quot;One Wild Night&quot; will prove to be an enjoyable read -- just perhaps not a 5 star one.	2003-09-05
989730:US	52830980	R329L8AU5BHDY5	0451210239	724501138	Under the Wishing Star (Star Trilogy)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	another charming and delightful tale from Diane Farr	Diane Farr's latest Regency romance, &quot;Under the Wishing Star&quot; proved to be a real treat. The kind of sophisticated and elegant romance novel about real people with problems (not a tale about an alpha-male hero and unrealistically feisty heroine running after murderers and spies in the dark London streets) that most readers would be able to relate to, well written and engagingly told -- the book just made me sigh with satisfaction when I finally reached the last page.<br />Natalie Whittaker's life has taken a turn for the worse. From being undisputed chatelaine of her father's house (Crosby Hall), Natalie must now relinquish the reins to her unpleasant half-brother, Hector, and his equally unpleasant wife, Mabel. Almost a poor relation, Natalie is finding life at Crosby completely intolerable; and then she makes the acquittance little Sarah Chase and her father Lord Malcolm Chase. <br />Sarah is under the care of a somewhat harsh and unimaginative governess, and meeting Natalie allows Lord Malcolm to realize something that he has suspected for quite a while: that the severe governess just will not do. And so he fires the governess and offers Natalie the position. Except that convention dictates that a young lady of Natalie's position cannot accept such a position; and so she declines, albeit reluctantly. But Lord Malcolm is determined that Natalie become part of Sarah's life. The obvious solution is that he marry his charming neighbour. Unfortunately, Natalie wants a love match, and Lord Malcolm doesn't believe in love. Can Lord Malcolm persuade Natalie to agree to a marriage based on friendship and respect? Or will Natalie open Lord Malcolm's eyes to the possibilities of love and passion? <br />I enjoyed this grownup romance novel even though there were really very few frills and fancies. &quot;Under the Wishing Star&quot; was a 'straight' romance novel about two likable people who have a wonderful friendship and who are fortunate in that their relationship was able to deepen into love. How the authour allows for this to occur at a brisk but unhurried pace, was what made the novel all the more satisfying and delightful. And if it wasn't for the unwanted (in my opinion anyway) plot twist near the end of the novel (but I suppose this was done so as to facilitate Farr's next novel which will feature Natalie's younger brother, Derek, as hero), &quot;Under the Wishing Star&quot; would have been an unreserved 6 star recommended read.	2003-09-03
996123:US	52830980	R28VU0OURNWNS0	067003259X	688507671	Foul Matter	Books	4	7	11	N	N	sharp, witty, funny ... an all around good read	Rumour has it that if you know the publishing world really, really well, you'll be able to recognize the characters (editors, agents, authours, etc) and publishing houses that Martha Grimes has caricatured in &quot;Foul Matter.&quot; If you fall into that happy category, than this book is a definite must read -- however, even if you don't fall into that grouping, &quot;Foul Matter&quot; is still a must read for it purely entertaining and engrossing plot.<br />Best selling suspense authour Paul Giverney is looking for a new publishing house. However not just any publishing house will do; he's looking for one that is so unscrupulous that it'll stoop to fulfilling certain conditions: 1) that said publishing house will terminate it's contract with one of it's best (literary quality wise, not necessarily sales-wise) authours, and 2) that he gets that authour's editor for his books. If those two conditions are met, then Paul Giverney will sign a three book deal with the publishing house. And the house that he's chosen to deal with is Mackenzie-Haack (a ruthless but not necessarily top notch publishing house); the authour he wants them to drop is Ned Islay, and the editor he wants for his books is Tom Kidd.<br />When Giverney tells Clive Esterhaus (one of Mackenzie-Haack's more ambitious editors) his terms, Clive is appalled. Fulfilling Giverney's conditions could mean the end of Mackenzie-Haack because Tom Kidd is a rarity in the present-day publishing world -- and editor who believes in what he's doing. And Tom believes in Ned Islay, and appreciates the quality of Islay's novels. So that he'll probably leave Mackenzie-Haack if they drop Islay and try and force Giverney on him. And if Tom walks out on Mackenzie-Haack, several authours will probably leave with him as well. Clive can see no way to meet Giverney's conditions at all; but his boss Bobby Mackenzie thinks that he has hit on a plan that will ensure that they can be rid of Islay and still keep Tom. Will Bobby's ruthless plan work? And will Clive merely stand by and watch? Or will an unexpected twist throw a spanner in the works?<br />After the disappointment of &quot;A Grave Maurice,&quot; &quot;Foul Matter&quot; was like a breath of fresh air. The main plot (Bobby's plan to be rid of Islay) was interesting, engrossing, sharp and (at times) rather funny. The subplots were more like character studies of certain secondary characters -- but where, in the Richard Jury series, similar subplots used to bore me, here the subplots worked really well, filling us in on certain character motivations, their feelings and desires -- thus making them more rounded and more realistic characters. And although while I was reading the novel I felt as if the bits that dealt with Islay dragged a little, on the whole my impression after I had finished the book was that the pacing was excellently done. Sharp, funny and riveting, &quot;Foul Matter&quot; was a truly satisfying read. (By the way, &quot;Foul Matter&quot; is NOT a mystery novel, just in case you're expecting another Richard Jury like mystery novel.)	2003-08-28
1002485:US	52830980	RVFFXSA4HKK80	0670031917	967448146	The 6th Lamentation	Books	5	8	9	N	N	a mesmerizing and engrossing read	Usually I start my reviews by giving a brief synopsis of the novel's plot. I'm going to leave off doing so in this case as the plot to &quot;The Sixth Lamentation&quot; can be summed up by noting that it's about what happened in France during WWII, secrets and the quest for truth and justice. What I will do in this brief review is to urge everyone to READ this book! You won't regret it (borrow it from the library if you're leery about spending $24.95 plus tax), because &quot;The Sixth Lamentation is a truly mesmerizing and engrossing read -- it was really hard for me to stop reading and put the book down. As a result, another morning in which I literally had to force myself to wake up and drag myself to work because I had stayed up reading till the early morning hours. Word of warning though: William Broderick's prose style can be a little dense at times. On the other hand, it's a really clever and thoughtful book, masterfully told and dealing with ideas and concepts such as the nature of true heroism and sacrifice, and the difference between myth and actuality. <br />The pacing was brisk and taut so that you really felt the tension and suspense mount as each new revelation opened up some new facet to the &quot;truth&quot; of how Schwermann managed to escape apprehension and prosecution in 1944. And the manner in which the authour brings all his characters to life -- from the terminally ill Agnes Embleton, who has hidden the truth of her life prior to 1944 from her family, to Father Anselm who thinks he's up on every trick in the book, but who's belatedly realizing that he just may not be as clever as he thought he was, to the mysterious Salomon Lachaise who has been following the events that have unfolded at Larkwood Priory with deep interest -- is also noteworthy. How Broderick has woven in each character's different story/history into the events that are presently unfolding in the book, how this impacts on the story at hand (Anselm's unraveling of the truth and the criminal trial of Schwermann), and how everything comes together in a neat and satisfying manner in the final few chapters, is just breathtaking (can you say that about a book, I wonder?).<br />&quot;The Sixth Lamentation&quot; is a remarkable debut novel. I know that there has been a lot of positive reviews from many newsletters and websites, and it's nice to be able to wholeheartedly agree that &quot;The Sixth Lamentation&quot; is definitely a book worth taking note off and recommending as an excellent read. So, if you like books that make you pause and think, books about secrets and truth and if you don't mind that the only 'action' involves the travels of one monk from city to city in search of an elusive truth, you're bound to be satisfied with &quot;The Sixth Lamentation.&quot;	2003-08-22
1010744:US	52830980	R1BB1LCCRUD09U	1569473250	691814896	A Dark Devotion: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	an excellent read	Surprisingly enough, &quot;A Dark Devotion&quot; turned out to be a very fast and suspenseful read -- this, in spite of the fact that (if you're an avid mystery reader) you can almost see certain plot twists and turns coming a mile off! Claire Francis is definitely a mistress at spinning a suspenseful yarn.<br />The plot for &quot;A Dark Devotion&quot; is a fairly simple and much used one: Alex O' Neill receives a frantic 'phone call from an old childhood friend, Will Dearden, one day, asking for her help -- Will's beautiful wife, Grace, has suddenly gone missing; the police investigation into her disappearance seems to have come to a standstill; and Will is slowly going to pieces not knowing what to do or whom to turn to. Of course Alex drops everything in order to return to her childhood haunt at Deepwell (in Norfolk) in order to give Will whatever moral support and professional help he may need (Alex is also a lawyer). What Alex finds at Deepwell is a nightmare scenario where the police seem to suspect Will of having done away with his beautiful and popular wife, in spite of Will's obvious overwrought state. Could the police be right? Could her childhood friend be capable of murder? The more Alex discovers about Grace and the Dearden's marriage, the more Alex begins to reconsider her idea of who and what Grace; but it also makes her take a closer look at her friend, and to wonder if Will had a hand at Grace's disappearance after all...<br />Told against the backdrop of the Norfolk dunes and it's bad weather, &quot;A Dark Devotion&quot; proved to be a tale that was full of swirling emotions and atmosphere. Claire Francis did a fantastic job of weaving in the weather, landscape, the darker (and weaker) of the human frailties into the story of Grace Dearden's disappearance and the repercussions her disappearance had on those around her. Also wonderfully done was how she juterposed Alex's failing marriage, the ethical problems she was facing at work and at home, andher relationship with her brother (who still lives at Deepwell and who seems to have a bee in his bonnet where the Deardens are concerned), with the story of Grace's disappearance. And this is why &quot;A Dark Devotion&quot; turned out to be such a wonderful and rewarding read. As I noted before, if you're a mystery buff, you'll probably see some of the plot twists and resolutions coming a mile off, but the manner in which the authour tells her story, the manner in which she fleshes out her chief protagonist -- the plucky and extremely likable Alex O' Neill, the excellent pacing and the clever juxtaposition of subplots, is what makes &quot;A Dark Devotion&quot; an excellent read, and well worth the high hardcover purchase price.	2003-08-15
1018565:US	52830980	R1H3XJWAUBAQ9T	0060513640	301232992	One Night of Scandal (Fairleigh Sisters)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	a wonderful follow up to &quot;A Kiss To Remember&quot;	&quot;One Night of Scandal&quot; turned out to be a very pleasant surprise. When I read the first two chapters, my reaction was &quot;oh wonderful, I've wasted my money on a novel about another immature, hoydenish heroine who manages to snare another unsuspecting hero by embroiling him in a scandal.&quot; But then I found myself spending the next few hours eagerly turning the pages and being really entertained -- &quot;One Night of Scandal&quot; had turned out to be a fortuitous buy.<br />Miss Carlotta (Lottie) Anne Fairleigh is about to attend her debut ball when she learns that the Murderous Marquess -- Hayden St. Clair, the Marquess of Oakleigh -- has been living next door for the past few days. (Oakleigh is supposed to have killed both his wife and his best friend when he found them in bed together). Surely slipping out before her ball starts in order to catch a glimpse of the man shouldn't land her in too much trouble? Except that it does. Before she can fully comprehend how things had gotten so dreadfully beyond her control, Lottie loses her &quot;virginal&quot; reputation when she's spied in the marquess's study and in his arms. Only marriage to Oakleigh can redeem her in Society's eyes, and so Lottie soon finds herself married to Oakleigh and bound for his estate in Cornwall (which is reputed to be haunted by Oakleigh's dead wife's ghost). It doesn't take Lottie very long to realise exactly what her true feelings for her remote and tortured husband are; unfortunately Lottie also realises that Oakleigh is still very much in love with his dead wife. Now Lottie must decide if she can compete with the memories of dead woman and get her husband to see her as a fully grown woman, eager for her husband's love and attention?<br />This is what I liked about &quot;One Night of Scandal&quot; -- Teresa Medeiros saves the novel from the usual fare about a feisty and somewhat immature heroine who finally wins her dour husband's love and devotion, by allowing Lottie to mature by increments (the Lottie at the beginning of the novel and the Lottie at the end of the novel are almost two different people); and by allowing for Lottie's hoydenish ways and her free and easy manners to actually help her overcome some of the problems she faces at her new home (as when she has to deal with her stepdaughter, Allegra). Something else I liked about this novel was the manner in which she portrayed Oakleigh by not making him into the usual dour, bad tempered autocratic male, but by literally portraying him as a man who is somewhat out of his depth, and who doesn't quite know how to handle his attention starved daughter, his new young wife, or his tortured memories of his dead wife. <br />Overall, the story was a rather good one that seemed at first to be part gothic novel, part ghost story, but which actually proved to be a slightly humourous and entertaining tale about a young woman who manages to heal the emotional wounds that her new family is suffering from, and who manages, ultimately, to find the love of a lifetime where she least expected to. All in all, &quot;One Night of Scandal&quot; proved to be a good 4 star read.	2003-08-08
1018730:US	52830980	R3DWU8RK0AYJMK	006050563X	630357889	Once a Scoundrel (Ladies' Fashionable Cabinet Trilogy)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	interesting character portrayals saves this book	&quot;Once a Scoundrel&quot; was not a bad read. To the contrary, it was well written and had several interesting (and captivating) characters that the authour successfully made you care about. And yet, on the whole, the novel did not totally satisfy. And that was because the story line was an often used one, with few interesting or surprising plot twists.<br />Anthony Morehouse is a typical gentleman of the ton: he spends his time drinking and gambling with his friends, and gadding about from one social do to another. So that when he wins the ownership of a ladies' magazine at the gambling tables, he's not too sure what to do about it. A visit to the editor's home gives him the first of many shocks: 1) the magazine he now owns is not some ladies' fashion concern but actually one that writes on political issues, reforms as well as matters about fashion and housekeeping; and 2) the magazine's editor just happens to be Miss Edwina Parrish, his childhood nemesis, who bested him in everything. Suddenly, the opportunity to pay Edwina for all those years of humiliation has been presented to him on a silver platter, and in the mood of mischief, Anthony wagers Edwina that if she can double the subscription level in two months, he will sign the magazine over to her. And in the meantime, Anthony has every intention of spending as much time as possible with Edwina, who has grown up to become a rather delectable young lady...<br />Edwina has spent the last few years making the magazine over into something that she's rather proud of, only to discover that the ownership of her magazine has changed hands. Edwina's is afraid that the new owner (Anthony) might want to take a more active role at running the magazine, and discover how she has been using the profits from the magazine to run certain charities. Now Anthony has challenged her to a wager for the ownership of the magazine. Should she accept this mad wager? For while she has every intention of wining the wager, working underAnthony's close scrutiny could mean the discovery of all her secrets. And then there is that rather unnerving manner in which Anthony looks at her that's awakening all sorts of feeling that she'd thought she had buried...<br />I truly enjoyed the manner in which Candice Hern allowed for Edwina's character to blossom from a serious minded editor and reformer to a young woman ready to let a little bit of fun and frivolity into her life. Also well done was the manner in which the authour fleshed out the secondary characters in the novel -- from Prudence, Edwina's mousy assistant editor who happens to have a severe crush on Edwina's brother (I do hope that there's a novel that features Prudence as heroine at some point), to Flora, a woman with a scandalous past whom Anthony and Edwina hire to be the fashion editor, to Anthony raffish friends -- these characters added colour and depth to this otherwise rather ordinary story. Where the novel failed to raise itself above the expected level was in the predictable storyline -- you could almost predict the exact chapter in which Edwina and Anthony would first indulge in a bit of dalliance, to the chapter in they would fall out because of Edwina's political sympathies. I was also disappointed that Anthony's growth as a character was not as detailed as Edwina's was -- we're told about his growth, but not shown. On the other hand, the novel did unfold smoothly and at an even pace.<br />On the whole though &quot;Once a Scoundrel&quot; was a pleasant enough read, even if the storyline and the hero &amp; heroine were pretty much run of the mill.	2003-08-08
1021386:US	52830980	R2PVKD4UCA8021	0425191249	399531140	Barely A Bride (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	54	55	N	N	a charming &amp; heart-warming romance novel	The first in a new series that revolves around a few titled gentlemen (the Free Fellows League) who have all taken an oath to put off marrying as long as possible, not fall in love and to never, ever be at the beck and call of any woman, &quot;Barely a Bride&quot; proved to be a surprisingly enjoyable read. I cannot tell you why -- the storyline was a rather plain one with few frills (no jealous ex-mistresses vowing revenge, no murder/spy subplot, no secondary romantic subplot) and with no unexpected twists -- but I found myself being rather charmed with this simple little romance novel and have no problem with recommending it as a worthwhile read.<br />Griffin Abernathy (the seventeenth Viscount Abernathy) needs to find a wife as soon as possible: he's about to the posted to the Peninsula, however when his father (the Earl of Weymouth) discovers that his only son and heir is about to risk life and limb (and the family name), he issues an ultimatum -- get married at once and try to beget an heir or give up the commission. And so Griffin has taken to haunting London's drawing rooms in hope of finding a lady he can tolerate being married to. And he thinks he's found just the lady when he spies the Season's reigning Incomparable, Lady Alyssa Carrollton. Fortunately for Griffin, in Lady Allysa he's struck gold. Lady Alyssa is a clever and serious-minded young lady who wants nothing to do with husband-hunting; she'd rather garden. But Lady Alyssa's mother has other plans -- she wants Alyssa to make THE MATCH of the Season. So that when Griffin tracks Alyssa down and proposes that they marry each other so that they each may achieve what they desire, Alyssa agrees to his scheme. But neither counted on the passion (and love) that would spring between them during their brief time together. Will these tender emotions survive their inevitable separation when Griffin rides off to join his regiment? Alyssa knows how she feels about Griffin, but she's not so sure about her husband...<br />&quot;Barely a Bride&quot; may not be to everyone's taste. The authour has chosen to tell her story in as straightforward a manner as possible. And while I do like this novel, I have to own that the book could have been a little more evenly paced. More than half the novel is taken up how Griffin manages to win Alyssa's heart and approval, their wedding and their very brief and passionate honeymoon; a healthy segment is also spent on how the pair copes with their separation. The last quarter of the novel deals with how a battle weary and emotionally scarred Griffin returns home, his attempts to cope and his realization of his true feelings for Alyssa. The trouble with &quot;Barely a Bride&quot; was that the last bit had a rather rushed feeling to it -- suddenly all is resolved. Given the somewhat sedate pace at which the novel was unfolding until then, this sudden picking up of pace gave things a rather unbalanced feel.<br />On the plus side however, &quot;Barely a Bride&quot; proved to be a rather intelligent and sweet love story about two likable people (Griffin, unlike most run-of-the-mill romance heroes, was NOT a quick to judge woman-hating jerk; and Alyssa was intelligent, compassionate and really, really nice), who marry for convenience but who discover something rather precious in their union. I'm still at a loss to explain why I liked it so very, very much ... perhaps I was just in the right mood to appreciate this gem of a romance novel.	2003-08-06
1026034:US	52830980	RLRCWJ5VXM3OX	0553801309	768428518	A Place of Hiding	Books	2	52	55	N	N	a disappointing 2 1/2 star read	I have to confess I was rather disappointed with &quot;A Place of Hiding.&quot; Perhaps it was because Barbara Havers (my favourite character in the series that Elizabeth George has created) did not make even one appearance in this installment; or perhaps it was because the novel seem to completely lack any kind of suspense (esp in comparison to Ms George's first Lynely/Havers outing, &quot;A Great Deliverance&quot; -- a truly superb mystery novel, that); or because it took forever for the novel to unwind and move forward. For whatever reason, &quot;A Place of Hiding&quot; just did not live up to my expectations.<br />When an old friend (Cherokee Rivers) from Deborah St. James's past turns up at the St. James' doorstep begging for help, Deborah (and Simon, her husband and a forensic scientist) can hardly turn the poor man away. It turns out that Cherokee's sister, China, has been accused of murdering Guy Brouard on an isolated beach at Guersey (an island in the English Channel). Deborah is sure that her old friend is incapable of murder and is all for rushing off to prove her friend's innocence. But Simon is not so sure about the Rivers siblings, or about just what he and Deborah can really accomplish. And when it turns out that there are actually witnesses who saw China following Guy that fateful morning, both Simon and Deborah realize that its not going to be all that easy a task proving China's innocence. Finding a motive for this seemingly motiveless murder would be the first obvious step. And when the St. Jameses discover that Guy was not that well liked and that he had his fair share of enemies (two ex-wives, three estranged children, and a host of people he seems to have let down in one way or another), it looks as if the first steps have been taken to establishing that there may have been other suspects besides China. But Simon cannot let go of the notion that either one or both the Rivers siblings were involved in the murder, and his suspicions are beginning to take a toll on his relationship with Deborah. Will Simon be able to deal with his suspicions about the Rivers siblings (as well as his jealousy about Deborah's bond with them)? Or will his feelings get in the way of the investigation?<br />The main problem with &quot;A Place of Hiding&quot; (for me anyway) was that it took too long to unwind. The actual motive for the murder was not revealed until a little less than three quarters way through the novel (true there were a few other probable motives strewn about, but the authour, in my opinion, failed to focus on them concretely enough that it was hard to take these 'motives' seriously). And then there was the fact that the book seemed to be absolutely full of characters, whose every action was observed, dissected, picked through and presented for the readers pleasure. And some of these characters weren't even all that essential to the plot! After a while I just started skimming in order to get to the 'meat' of the mystery!!<br />So, if you like your mystery novels dense, where every shift in shadow and where every shade of a particular character's motivation is described, then &quot;A Place of Hiding&quot; should indeed satisfy. But is you're looking for a clever and suspenseful mystery novel, then you might want to give this latest Elizabeth George offering a miss.	2003-08-02
1036208:US	52830980	R2E50E4IHR097A	0821774778	430626046	Mr. Jeffries and the Jilt (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	prose style makes this a truly worthwhile read	All of Shelton-on-Sea is agog when it becomes known that the scandalous Miss Caroline Sedgewick, noted for having heartlessly jilted three gentlemen, has come to the fashionable seaside town for the summer. Even Mr. Raymond Jeffries, a much sought after bachelor, known for his impeccable manners, elegance and wit is curious to meet the notorious young lady. But when he does finally meet Caroline, he is surprised to find that Caroline is charming, intelligent and rather modest. And he begins to suspect that the rumours about Caroline are not true and that she is much maligned young woman. <br />As the the two young people begin to spend more time together, it doesn't take Raymond very long to realize that he has fallen rather hard for Caroline; but she insists on treating him as a good friend and at keeping him at a distance. What should Raymond do in order to get Caroline to let down her guard and see him as a desirable suitor? And then the gentleman whom Caroline was last engaged to comes to Salton-on-Sea, determined to win back her regard. Will Caroline succumb to that gentleman's pleas? Or will she realize that in Raymond she may have found her perfect match?<br />Storywise, &quot;Mr. Jeffries and the Jilt&quot; is a rather ordinary one; and in Raymond and Caroline, Joy Reed has provided us with a rather run-of-the-mill (though likable) hero and heroine pairing. What makes &quot;Mr. Jeffries and the Jilt&quot; so very readable and enjoyable though is the authour's prose style. Much of the novel was written in a rather elegant manner (though there were a few typographical/printing mistakes), and I found myself savouring the manner in which Ms Reed told her tale and the nice and sedate pace at which she allowed for the story and romance to unfold. &quot;Mr. Jeffries and the Jilt&quot; may not be to everyone taste in that the pacing is a little slow and that there is a lot of (private) rumination and not a lot of 'action' but I rather enjoyed this elegant little novel, and have no problem recommending it as a worthwhile read.	2003-07-25
1062963:US	52830980	R3PDNDQC13T4D4	0425190927	622422263	The Wife Test	Books	4	3	3	N	N	an enjoyable and charming read	&quot;The Wife Test&quot; is a follow up of sorts to &quot;The Husband Test,&quot; and is, for some reason, being marketed as a rollicking, laugh a minute kind of novel. While, &quot;The Wife Test&quot; is not a dour book, it is not a romp either (perhaps I don't have the same 'rollicking' sense of humour that the publishers have?). On the other hand, &quot;The Wife Test&quot; proved to be really enjoyable read, boasting of a clever and well written plot, and an engaging and courageous heroine, and one that (esp if you're a historical romance fan) should not be missed.<br />Having been taken prisoner after the French had lost the Battle of Crecy to the English, the Duke of Avalon (or more accurately his family) is now expected to pay a huge ransom before he will be allowed to go free. Except that the duke has already been stripped of nearly everything by the Edward III, and has little left to offer. A chance remark by his jailer gives the duke an idea. He is the patron of the Convent of the Brides of Virtue -- a convent that takes in and educates young ladies from noble familles in order to prepare them for marriage. The duke's plan is to legally adopt four such young ladies and pretend that they are his illegitimate daughters and to present them to Edward III as potential brides for his nobles. <br />And so he immediately sends word to the abbess to select four young ladies to pass off as his daughters. The abbess on the other hand is livid. Not only does the duke expect her to be party to his fraud, but he also expects her to provide the dowry for his 'daughters!' Reluctantly, the abbess decides to play along and she selects four young ladies of impeccable background to become brides to these English lords. What the abbess doesn't know is that Chloe, a young foundling who is being trained to become the abbess's right hand, has overheard everything. Chloe longs to be married and to have a family, and she also desperately wants to find out who she really is and whoher parents were. And so Chloe concocts a daring plan that will allow her to accompany the young brides to England. A natural leader, Chloe doesn't anticipate too much trouble with maintaining her pretense of being the abbess's liaison between the young brides-to-be and the English. What Chloe didn't reckon on was the infuriating Sir Hugh Sennet, who has been specially hand-picked by his king to see to the ladies' safety. If ever there was a man put on earth to torment her, it was Sir Hugh! And for a young woman who has her own mission to accomplish and may secrets to hide, Sir Hugh with his eagle eyes, suspicious mind and irritating bad humour is exactly the sort of person she should avoid...<br />I liked &quot;The Wife Test&quot; for its story and for its heroine. True, it is the kind of novel where it takes the hero FOREVER to come to terms with his true feelings for the heroine, but it was (also) the kind of book that helps you while away the hours and relax without making you feel as if you've wasted an afternoon on overindulgences. Chloe was a wonderful heroine, and I thoroughly enjoyed it when she stood her ground and triumphed over the bad tempered but (clearly) tantalised Sir Hugh over and over again. In fact reading about how Chloe coped with everything, from trying to find the right husbands for her friends, to dealing with the maddening Sir Hugh and his various humours, as well as other threats to her well-being is what &quot;The Bride's Test&quot; a truly worthwhile and enjoyable 4 star read.	2003-07-03
1063185:US	52830980	R3R80TIXI174P9	0821774832	636872349	A Daring Courtship (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	a very good story	Once upon a time Miss Madeline Piper would have rather walked on glass than go to Sir Roger Mathieson for help. But a change in her family's financial circumstances has forced the proud beauty to rethink her stance and to ask (gulp) Sir Roger Mathieson to marry her. Does Madeline have what it takes to put her feelings of disdain towards Sir Roger behind her, and put up with being married to Sir Roger for a lifetime?<br />Sir Roger Matheison (on his part) is stunned beyond anything when the haughty Miss Madeline Piper comes to him and proposes marriage, especially when he knows just how much disdain she has for him because he is a Scotsman. In fact when he had proposed to her, she had thrown a clock at him for his effrontery! But now it would seem that the lady needs his money and is willing to overlook his unfortunate heritage for her family's sake. A proud man, Sir Roger would like nothing better than to tell Madeline to go to the devil, but he cannot deny that he is still in love with Madeline (the first time Sir Roger saw Madeline, he fell in love with her sweet smile), and so he comes up with a plan: hoping to teach Madeline a lesson, Sir Roger decrees that if Madeline wants to marry him that she will have to see to it that the leading families of Chilchester accept him socially (the poor man has been ostracised ever since he set foot in Chilchester). Madeline is appalled but has little choice except to agree to Sir Roger's terms, little realising that the real challenge will lie not with her ingenuity in getting everyone to accept Sir Roger, but in how her new relationship with Sir Roger will cause her to question many of the beliefs she was raised with... <br />&quot;A Daring Courtship&quot; may not be everyone's cup of tea, esp because the heroine's snobbish behaviour can be a little hard to like and accept. However, you do have to admire the authour for her brilliant and on the mark depiction of said heroine, Madeline Piper. Many of the young ladies (of allclasses) of the period would have shared in Madeline's pride and prejudices completely. Valerie King did a first rate job in her portrayal of the proud and reserved young lady. And while it is true that Madeline's change of heart took a while to be achieved, I thought that the manner in which the authour handled things was realistic and probable -- after all a lifetime of prejudices cannot be overcome all at once! The hero, Sir Roger, was a gem; and I couldn't help but admire the man for his patience and forbearance in his dealings with both Madeline and the people fo Chilchester. Another nice detail was how Valerie King brought the narrow townspeople, with all their absurd prejudices and narrow views, to life. Certain plot contrivances, however, may niggle (such as why the older gentlemen of the town seem to have given up all their social powers to their wives, and why it take the heroine's father so long to act); also novel does unfold at a slightly sedate rate -- although it was smooth unwinding without any glaring jolts and starts. But all in all, I'd vote &quot;A Daring Courtship&quot; as a novel worth recommending as an enjoyable 3 1/2 star read.	2003-07-03
1070505:US	52830980	R1452WRRI2701U	0758201605	110059972	Last Writes (Jaine Austen Mystery)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	a fun summer read	Thanks to the efforts of her best friend, Kandi Tobolowski, free lance writer Jaine Austen has finally landed a gig as a sitcom writer -- or at least as a writer for one episode of &quot;Muffy n' Me&quot;. Of course it is true that as far as sitcoms go Muffy n' Me isn't exactly top notch -- ditto the studio (Miracle Studios), the acting cast and the head writers, Audrey and Stan Miller -- but Jaine isn't about to allow such considerations to get her down. She finally has her first real professional tinsel town job!! The atmosphere at the set however soon extinguishes the stars from Jaine's eyes: everyone from the actors to the stage crew is out for number one; and the star, Vanessa Dennis (affectionately known as VD) who plays the teenage Muffy, turns out to be truly obnoxious; add to that the fact that half of the head writing team, Audrey, seems to be an Ice Queen, while the other half, hubby Stan, is an ineffectual  alcoholic -- and you have some idea of what the atmosphere at the set of &quot;Muffy n' Me&quot; is like. <br />But it is when one of the cast members, Quinn Kirkland , is discovered in fragante delicto with the teenage Vanessa, that things really begin bubble. Quinn, it turns out is a bit of a slimy Romeo, who has been spreading his favours evenly and indiscriminately around all the women on the set (a list that unfortunately includes Kandi and Audrey). Now the women are all breathing fire and swearing revenge, and when Quinn dies during the shooting of a scene (apparently from nibbling on piece of poisoned doughnut), the police zero in on Kandi as prime suspect! Now it is up to Jaine to figure out who really killed Quinn and to get her friend off the hook...<br />This is the second Jaine Austen mystery novel, and while I really do love these novels, honesty compels me to warn that although &quot;Last Rites&quot; proved to be an amusing and enjoyable read, if you're looking for a mystery novel that will really engage the detective in you, you might want to give &quot;Last Rites&quot; a miss. On the other hand, if you're looking for something light, entertaining and funny as can be, I'd recommend this book in a heartbeat! The thing is, &quot;Last Rites&quot; unfolds a little slowly. Jaine has a small group of suspects to work with (all who don't really trust her all that much because she's a bit of an outsider); add to that the fact that much of the 'action' really is confined to the sets and offices at Miracle Studios, and you will understand why the book is not really a page turner. Fortunately one can always fall back on Laura Levine's bright and breezy narrative prose style. And something else worthy of mention, the authour's precise and cleverly drawn character and scene descriptions. All in all, &quot;Last Rites&quot; proved to be a truly humourous and charming read. I enjoyed all of Jaine's witty asides, her deprecating humour and her wacky interactions with her parents and her cat, Prozac (who bears an uncanny resemblance to my own cats). So that if you're looking for a nice summer read to while away the time while sunning yourself on a deck (or whatever scenario grabs your fancy), I'd recommend &quot;Last Rites&quot; as a book worthy of consideration.	2003-06-27
1080009:US	52830980	R3CYK8KZB80LRY	0553802224	477231489	Jane and the Ghosts of Netley	Books	5	10	14	N	N	a riveting read	It should have been a time of mourning and private grief for Jane Austen as she contemplates the recent death of her beloved sister-in-law, Elizabeth. But it can hardly be that, not when Sir Henry Towbridge, one of England's most trusted of advisors and her own Gentleman Rogue, bursts in on her life again with a tale of betrayal, treachery and intrigue. <br />Sir Harold has but recently returned from Oporto (in Portugal), where he made the acquittance of (and became quite smitten with) a beautiful, rich widow, Sophia Challoner. Sir Harold now firmly believes that Sophia is actually a French agent and that she has some evil and dastardly plan up her sleeve that she means to carry out now that she's installed herself at Netley Lodge in Southampton. Because he's well known to the lady, Sir Harold wants Jane to keep an eye Sophia, to note all her comings and goings as well as who all her visitors are. Fortunately for Jane, a fortuitous turn of events brings her to Sophia's notice, and the two strike up a friendship. But the more time Jane spends with Sophia, the more she begins to wonder about Sir Harold's allegations against Sophia. Is she the treacherous and heartless spy Sir Harold believes her to be? Or could Sir Harold be wrong about Sophia? As acts of sabotage and murder begin to mount, Jane finds herself torn between her two friends and not at all sure what she should do...<br />While a lot of the novel did focus on the question as to whether or not Sophia Challoner was a treacherous French spy, the authour did take great care to pepper her mystery-intrigue plot with plenty of other suspects, several likely scenarios as to what was really going on, as well as a few rather interesting plot twists, in order to keep things humming and the reader guessing. Told with plenty of interesting historical facts and gossipy tidbits, and in a prose style that managed to be authentic without seeming anachronistic, I thoroughly enjoyed \\"Jane and the Ghosts of Netley\\" and had tofinish it in one sitting. \\"Jane and the Ghosts of Netley\\" proved to be truly riveting reading.	2003-06-21
1082588:US	52830980	R2HCO5OCYUKEJI	0060522259	132584057	Elegance: A Novel	Books	3	31	35	N	N	a 3 1/2 star read	When I first read the blurb on the dustjacket, I thought that &quot;Elegance&quot; read like a &quot;Bridget Jones&quot; type of novel except that it revolved around an unhappy and unsatisfied married woman (Louise Canova). And then I wondered if we really needed another &quot;Bridget Jones&quot; type of book. Well, while I was a little wrong about the novel being a &quot;Bridget Jones&quot; clone (there are similarities but there are a lot of differences as well), my feelings about this novel are mixed -- there were some things I really liked (like how the heroine manages to take action, make changes and so achieve happiness), there were some things that really irritated as well (like the fact that for a 32 year old woman, Louise has the appalling habit of pouting and sulking whenever things don't really go as she would like them to).<br />The storyline is a very basic one: Louise Canova, a married 32 year old, suddenly wakes up to the fact that she's deeply unhappy, unsatisfied with the turn that her life has taken, and that she has become very frumpish. She has an elegant ex-model mother-in-law she really dislikes (even as she craves her approval and attention), and her husband (who remains nameless throughout the novel) seems more interested in housekeeping than in her. And then Louise, a used bookstore junkie (at least for the first few chapters of &quot;Elegance&quot;) finds a copy of a book (circa 1950s/1960s?) that promises to teach plain Janes how to become the very epitome of elegance. Louise begins to take the lessons that the book offers very much to heart, hoping to become the elegant swan she craves to be, little expecting the actual impact the book will actually have on her life. For suddenly, Louise is confronted with some uncomfortable truths about her past, present and the possible future that is in store for her if she doesn't change things soon...<br />If you're looking for a laugh-a-minute, witty romp of a novel a-la &quot;Bridget Jones,&quot; think twice before picking up &quot;Elegance.&quot; &quot;Elegance&quot; is a little darker, sometimes rather sad and somber novel. There are, it is true, moments of great humour and warmth, and you cannot help but root for Louise to become the elegant swan, get the job, the man and happiness that is her due. But there were also the moments when I wanted to shake our heroine really hard for all her sulking and pouting when things didn't play out as she would have wanted them to.<br />So was &quot;Elegance&quot; a worthwhile read? For me, certain passages/descriptions (like where the authour describes used bookstores and the fascination that some of us have for them and when she describes that feeling of delicious exhilaration when you're not so much with the man as in love with his fascination/attraction with/to you) that really made this book for me. Storywise, you can more or less guess in which direction the novel (and Louise) is going after the first few chapters. But the prose style, the painful lessons that Louise learns, and watching her become the 'swan' she was meant to be, all made the book a somewhat worthwhile read. Though I'd advise either borrowing a copy of &quot;Elegance&quot; from the library, hinting like mad that a friend lend (or give you) her copy, or else waiting a year for the book to come out in tradepaper, as it is a bit difficult to justify spending the hardcover price for this book.hink twice before picking up &quot;Elegance.&quot; &quot;Elegance&quot; is a little darker, sometimes rather sad and somber novel. There are, it is true, moments of great humour and warmth, and you cannot help but root for Louise to become the elegant swan, get the job, the man and happiness that is her due. But there were also the moments when I wanted to shake our heroine really hard for all her sulking and pouting when things didn't play out as she would have wanted them to. <br />So was &quot;Elegance&quot; a worthwhile read? For me, certain passages/descriptions (like where the authour describes used bookstores and the fascination that some of us have for them and when she describes that feeling of delicious exhilaration when you're not so much with the man as in love with his fascination/attraction with/to you) that really made this book for me. Storywise, you can more or less guess in which direction the novel (and Louise) is going after the first few chapters. But the prose style, the painful lessons that Louise learns, and watching her become the 'swan' she was meant to be, all made the book a somewhat worthwhile read. Though I'd advise either borrowing a copy of &quot;Elegance&quot; from the library, hinting like mad that a friend lend (or give you) her copy, or else waiting a year for the book to come out in tradepaper, as it is a bit difficult to justify spending the hardcover price for this book.	2003-06-19
1089038:US	52830980	R3VNZDU0B0YWRV	0451209362	669628321	One Touch of Magic (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	thoroughly enjoyable	&quot;One Touch of Magic&quot; is definitely my favourite Amanda McCabe Regency-era romance novel, and is also, I believe, a really good example of how an authour can successfully pen a romance novel with a mystical subplot, and make everything seem believable and probable.<br />When Lady Sarah Iverson's husband, the renowned antiquarian scholar Sir John Iverson, passed away while in the middle excavating a Viking village in York, everyone expected Sarah to leave the project in the hands of Sir John's capable assistant and for her to retire to Bath (or Brighton) and live off her inheritance. Sarah, however, is no ordinary young widow. As passionately committed to history and to the excavating project that Sir John had started, Sarah has vowed to carry on Sir John's work. And for a while it looked as if Sarah would actually be able to finish his work. But then the landowner whose land she was excavating on dies and now there is a new owner -- someone who may have other plans for the land she's painstakingly sifting through, someone who has the right to demand that she pack up and go before she's finished her work...<br />Major Miles Rutledge returned from the wars carrying with the guilt of having survived along with a healthy dose of anger for the manner in which the ex-soldiers (esp the poor foot soldiers) were being treated now that the war was over. The frustration of not being able to do enough only compounded his feelings of guilt and anger. Now, however, he has the chance to make a difference. For Miles has inherited his uncle's title and estate in York, and he has plans to use the land to create new farms that would provide new jobs for some of these men. But Mile's plans suffer a setback when he discovers that there is an excavation going on at the most fertile part of his estate. While dismayed at this setback, Miles cannot deny how intrigued he is by what the scholarly Sarah is doing, or just how entrancing he finds the young widow. But how to reconcile Sarah's work with what he strongly believes he must do? <br />Romance-wise some readers may find &quot;One Touch of Magic&quot; a little disappointing. Sarah and Miles more or less fall in love with each other at first sight, and as the story progresses, each begins to see qualities in each other that justifies the admiration and regard they feel for each other. But there is very little courtship or flirtation between the two. Everything is all very refined and restrained. On the other hand, &quot;One Touch of Magic&quot; is about a whole lot more than romance and the almost metaphysical bond that seems to exsist between Sarah and Miles -- it's also about the sisterly bond between Sarah and her 16 year old sister, Mary Ann, and Mary Ann's infatuation for a married man; and then there is the subplot about a badly matched married couple; and the subplot dealing with Sarah's work and the anxiety she feels about getting it done quickly and properly and the conflict she feels about how her project may hamper Miles's dream; not to mention the subplot dealing with the supernatural... How Amanda McCabe ties all these strands together so that you feel as if you're reading one cohesive story is something worth applauding (not to mention the superbly drawn characters and the smooth manner in which she allows the story to unfold), and something I'm really in awe of: the authour actually allows for Sarah to mourn for her dead husband for an entire year before supplying her with a new love interest! Finally, a romance authour who realises that heroines and heroes need time to grieve for their spouses, esp if they felt some love and affection for them! <br />I thoroughly enjoyed &quot;One Touch of Magic&quot; and I would recommend it as a worthwhile read, esp since it will be going on my keeper shelf.	2003-06-14
1089689:US	52830980	R3MAO9DZOMTB04	0440241111	729777684	Slightly Scandalous	Books	4	0	0	N	N	best of the "Bedwyn" novels so far	Of all the Bedwyn Siblings \\"Slightly\\" novels published so far, \\"Slightly Scandalous\\" is easily the best, and that is mainly because of the two complex leading characters -- Lady Freya Bedwyn and the Marquess of Hallmere, Joshua Moore-- as well as the slightly more attention holding storyline that \\"Slightly Scandalous\\" possesses.<br />The very first time that Lady Freya Bedwyn and the Marquess of Hallmere (Joshua Moore) met, sparks flew -- he stole into her room in order to avoid being compromised into marriage, she punched him in the nose. Lady Freya found the marquess's audacity and devil may care attitude too much to bear; on the other hand, the marquess found Lady Freya's quick temper and high handed attitude far too amusing for words. And yet, when the confining Bath society practically forces the pair to cross paths over and over again, neither can deny the attraction that each feels for the other. So that when the marquess proposes that Lady Freya pretend to be his fiancee in order to avoid the matrimonial plans that his aunt has for him, Lady Freya finds herself agreeing to the scheme. After all it will cause her nothing to extract herself from this pretend engagement with a gentleman she considers to be a care-for-naught fribble, and in the meantime she would really enjoying thwarting the marquess's aunt's schemes! The last thing she expected was for her brother, the Duke of Bewcastle, to hear about her 'engagement' or for her to learn that there was a lot more to the Marquess of Hallmere than meets the eye -- things that would make him a lot more appealing and lovable to Lady Freya. But Lady Freya has already decide that she has no intention of falling in love with the marques or of marrying him. Will the marquess change Lady Freya's mind, or will Lady Freya stubbornly cling to course that she has decided on?<br />What made this novel really readable (aside from the compelling storyline) was the manner in which both Lady Freya's and the marquess's characters were 'fleshed out.' From the previous few books (as well as the first few chapters of this one) you get an impression of Lady Freya's character that is not always admirable -- or at the very least you could say that Lady Freya is not the typical romance heroine. And yet as the book progresses and Lady Freya's character is laid out for us to see and appreciate, we get to appreciate the humour, courage, steadfastness and strong moral center that this character possesses. So that in spite of her quick temper, pride and autocratic behaviour, one comes to root for Lady Freya to find the happiness and contentment that is her due. Similarly with the marquess, who first comes across as a rakish fribble but whom we come to realise is a lot more honourable and noble than we had been originally been led to believe. <br />Storywise \\"Slightly Scandalous\\" is a little more complex than the previous to books in the series -- but I won't go into this so as not to spoil things. True, things do get bogged down a little towards the end, esp since of Lady Freya's insistence on holding the marquess at arm's length makes very little sense. On the whole though, \\"Slightly Scandalous\\" proved to be a really worthwhile and enjoyable read, and definitely one that should not to be missed.	2003-06-13
1089810:US	52830980	R16MPQDW57R46E	1569473307	121676715	Maisie Dobbs	Books	4	216	230	N	N	an engrossing read	While \\"Maisie Dobbs\\" has been categorized as a novel/mystery, the book actually reads more like a novel (even though there is a mystery at hand, and our heroine is a detective) than it does a 'straight' mystery novel. But this did not stop me from enjoying the book at all.<br />Once Maisie Dobbs was a domestic servant with little expectation of anything else aside from rising within the ranks. However, thanks to the sponsorship of her employer, Lady Rowan Compton, who quickly realised that there was something really special about the thirteen year old, Maisie was given an education. Now, Maisie is a young woman and eager to make her mark; and thanks to the tutorship of Lady Rowan's good friend, Maurice Blanche (a renowned detective himself), Maisie is ready to embark on her first case. Unfortunately, it looks as if her first case is going to be a case of marital infidelity: Mr. Davenham suspects that his much younger wife, Celia, is having an affair; and he wants Maisie to either confirm his worst fears or else refute them. Little does Mr. Davenham realise, however, that Maisie is no ordinary detective. A highly intuitive and empathic young woman, Maisie senses Mr. Davenham's anguish over his wife's alleged infidelity and is resolved to help the Davenhams repair their strained marital bond. Her investigation however leads her to a graveyard, and to a grave marked only with a simple tombstone and a name -- Vincent. A casual search turns up other graves -- all memorialized with tombstones and first names only. Something about the whole thing awakens Maisie's misgivings, and trusting her instincts she decides to widen her investigation, never dreaming just how much this investigation will affect her...<br />\\"Maisie Dobbs\\" is divided into three sections: the first section deals with Maisie's initial investigation of Celia and what she's up to, and this section does read very much like a mystery novel; the second section deals with how Maisie came to be noticed by Lady Rowan, her education, and her war experiences -- this third of the book however reads more like a novel; the last section of the book again deals with the mystery of the mysterious tombstones, and the resolution of this mystery. While \\"Maisie Dobbs\\" proved to be a good and easy read, complete with an intriguing storyline and an intelligent and likable heroine, I must admit that the book was not that much of a suspenseful read. Because the novel does rely a little heavily on Maisie's intuitive powers, there are practically no unexpected plot twists or red herring suspects. (And truly, \\"Maisie Dobbs\\" was more about how, even almost an entire decade after the war, people were still coming to terms with the horror and grief that war entails). So that while I'm not exactly sure just how successful this plot device of having an empathic detecting heroine will be, I will admit that \\"Maisie Dobbs\\" proved to be a very enjoyable read.	2003-06-13
1097899:US	52830980	R2I35XIU558646	0451208986	228216419	The Reluctant Rogue (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	a good read	A follow-up to &quot;A Reckless Bargain&quot; (where Viscount Langley turns up about three-quarter way through the book), &quot;The Reluctant Rogue&quot; deals with the viscount's search for a beautiful and rich wife, and of the unexpected turn that his search takes.<BR> <BR>Sebastian Carr, the Viscount Langley, needs to marry soon, and she must be an heiress! Tired of his son's reckless and dissolute ways, Sebastian's father, the Earl of Stanhope, has decreed that unless Sebastian marries before his 25th birthday (in 2 months time), he will be cut off without a penny. Tired of always being tied to his father's pocketbook, Sebastian has decided to use the current London Season to find himself a rich wife. And when Sebastian spies the Season's Incomparable, Penelope Rutledge, he's sure that his quest for a rich wife is over, for Penelope is both beautiful and rich -- and rumour has it that she's hunting for a title! Could Fortune finally be smiling on him?<br />While the Rutledge sisters (Penelope and Jane) may be in London so that Penelope can find a husband, their agenda is not quite what Sebastian thinks it is. The sisters are keeping an eye out for a gentleman that meets Penelope's criteria for a good husband: kind, witty, warn hearted and honourable. The sister's mother on the other hand, the cold and beautiful Lady Portia Rutledge, is definitely on the lookout for any suitable title for her ravishing elder daughter. And when Sebastian begins his courtship of Penelope, Lady Portia is over the moon. The only hiccup to both Sebastian and Lady Portia's plans is that it is not gentle Penelope who falls for Sebastian, but her slightly plainer and younger sister, Jane! How will things pan out? Will Sebastian win the fair Penelope's hand or will serious Jane, who arouses his protective instincts, win the day?<br />I rather liked &quot;The Reluctant Rogue.&quot; (In fact I liked it a lot better than I did &quot;A Reckless Bargain&quot;). With this novel, Elizabeth Powell has taken a much used motif and made it uniquely hers by sheer virtue of the complex primary characters that she has created. Sebastian, for example, is very much the spoilt, reckless hero-type (quick to anger and to fling insults), and yet the authour has also given him a more thoughtful and empathic side as well as an agst-filled past, so that redemption, when it comes feels, right and is welcomed. Jane, on the other hand, is very much the sensible and intelligent heroine, and yet the authour has also made her plucky and vulnerable, so that one's sympathies are quickly aroused on Jane's behalf and that is really easy to root for her to have her romantic and happily-ever-after ending. Also nicely done was how Ms Powell contrived for the couple to move past the obstacles (almost completely of Sebastian's making) and achieve happiness, unity and contentment. All in all, &quot;The Reluctant Rogue&quot; proved to be a truly worthwhile read.	2003-06-06
1099239:US	52830980	R2XG09H2GFGB24	0440240840	740486327	The Emperor's Assassin: Memoirs of a Bow Street Runner (Dell Mystery)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	an immensely riveting and enjoyable read	Set in the summer of 1815, this second Henry Morton murder mystery focuses on the deadly goings-on amongst the French refugees in England whilst their own personal demon (on hero, depending on which faction you were talking to), Napoleon Bonaparte, was being held (by the British) on HMS Bellerophon just off the Plymouth Sound.<br />The novel opens with the discovery of the body of a young woman that had (seemingly) been washed up on shore. The initial view is that she committed suicide. But when Skelton, the surgeon, examines the body, he discovers that the woman had been bound and tortured before her death. The death of this unknown woman is beginning to smell like murder to Henry Morton, one of Bow Street's most reputable Runners. And in trying to discover the identity of this unfortunate unknown, Morton discovers that she was French (Madame Angelique Desmarches) and that she was the mistress of a very important French aristocrat. Was Angelique murdered by Bonapartist agents eager to know what the Royalist were about to do with their fallen emperor? As the investigation begins to take some rather unexpected twists and the body count begins to mount, Morton cannot help but become perturbed about this pat theory and to wonder what, exactly, is going on... <br />\\"The Emperor's Assassin\\" proved to be quite a read. Fast paced and with quite a few clever plot-twists, I spent a very happy afternoon being totally absorbed and engrossed with this book. Having enjoyed the previous Henry Morton murder mystery novel immensely, I was happy to discover that this second installment in the series lived up to my expectations. True, you almost being to expect and suspect what will happen next, but the authours did such a good job in telling their story and in letting things unfold smoothly, that you don't actually feel shortchanged just because you can guess what will happen next. (And some of the scenes were so vividly depicted that you could almost swear you'd been watching things unfold in front of the TV, instead of having imagined what it would have been like from a book). I thoroughly enjoyed \\"The Emperor's Assassin\\" -- but I do wish that the publishers would make up their minds if a book is going to come out in hardcover or mass market first: my mystery collection is beginning to look a little strange!	2003-06-05
1105282:US	52830980	R1M3KPYDOBIP90	0446531480	987364760	A Body to Die For	Books	3	9	9	N	N	not bad but book took a bit too long to unfold...	Although \\"A Body to Die For\\" did possess a rather intriguing storyline, ultimately the book did prove to a bit of a bland read for me.<br />Bailey Weggins is in dire need of some rest and relaxation -- her workload is beginning to get to her and her promising romance with Jack Herlihy (a professor of psychology) seems to have mysteriously fizzled. So that when close family friend, Danny Hubner, who owns and runs a health spa and inn (Cedar Inn) in Warren, Massachusetts invites Bailey to spend the weekend there, it seemed to be just the ticket. Except that Bailey discovers the dead body of one of the massage therapists in one of the treatment rooms. A quick talk with Danny reveals that things have been rather strained lately, and that Danny has been at a lose to figure out what's been going on. And so Bailey volunteers to help out her friend by snooping around. But the clues are few and leads hard to come by. However Bailey is determined to discover what's going on at Cedar Inn as well as unmask the killer, esp after the killer sends Bailey an ominous message warning her to stop her investigation...<br />If you're stuck somewhere over the weekend with nothing to do and no where to go (like an airport, or a hotel room) then you really won't feel too shortchanged if you invest your time (and money) on this book. The trouble with \\"A Body to Die For\\" was that it was 1) a bit of a bland read; 2) the mystery took too long to unfold; 3) the clues and suspects were really scarce; 4) there were very few clever twists and turns; and 5)for a seasoned professional crime columnist, Bailey seemed unbelievably naive. On the plus side, some of the dialogue was snappy and humourous and Bailey Weggins was easy to relate to and empathise -- in fact was what really saved the book for me and made it readable (even if I found it really amusing that Bailey's rolodex was full of 'phone numbers of people whom she had never met but who were willing to help her figure out what was going on atCedar Inn). So, if you're looking for a book to while away the time and that is entertaining as well, \\"A Body to Die For\\" will do; but if you're looking for a good mystery novel that will keep you riveted by the events that are unfolding between the pages, then you might want to try something else.	2003-05-31
1107770:US	52830980	RDN4CADMIZP3N	0821775626	164312658	To Marry An Heiress (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	an enjoyable light read	\\"To Marry an Heiress\\" is the first in a trilogy of books (I'm guessing) featuring the Darby brothers and their quest to find rich wives. And while \\"To Marry an Heiress\\" proved to be a rather readable and enjoyable, it did suffer from one defect -- the 'too-much-happens-in-one-book' flaw -- so that character development, the gradual and smooth unfolding of the novel and the progress of the 'real' romance sometimes suffered.<br />When the Viscount Tavistoke looses more money than he can afford at the gambling table, he comes up with the notion of getting his sons to marry heiresses as a way to alleviate all their cash flow problems. To that end he's decided that all his sons -- Montgomery (the heir), Max (Montgomery's twin) and Tristram -- should go to London for the Season. The viscount has even managed to persuade an old gambling friend, the Marquess of Cravenwell, to fund their stay and to help them navigate London's treacherous social waters. All that's needed now is for the Darby boys to agree to go to London and to snare three rich and amiable wives. And after an initial show of anger and hesitation, the brothers agree to go along with their father's latest scheme.<br />And almost as soon as the brothers arrive in London, Montgomery falls for the Season's reigning beauty, the rich Miss Adele Landis. But how to get close enough to her and to engage her interest? And that's where Adele's sensible cousin Clarissa Starnes steps in. Clarissa herself has fallen in love (at first sight) with Montgomery, and she finds herself volunteering to help bring Montgomery to Adele's notice. Operating partly on the desire to help the gentleman she's so smitten with achieve what he wants, Clarissa is also secretly hoping that if Montgomery is exposed to Adele's selfish and spoilt ways, he may turn away from Adele and perhaps notice her. Will Clarissa's hopes come to pass? What then of Montgomery's goal to marry an amiable heiress? For while beautiful and spoilt Adele is very rich,sensible and likable Clarissa is definitely a poor relation...<br />I liked \\"To Marry an Heiress\\" because the characters were all very engaging and likable. The trouble was that Julia Parks had so much material to cover -- like setting up the premise and setting up things for the next two books in the series; making the romance that unfolded between Montgomery and Clarissa seem probable and romantic and yet keeping in mind the fact that Montgomery was not only courting Adele but that he had actually fallen for her in the beginning; and then there was the mysterious Marquess of Cravenwell (also known in Society as the 'Dirty Marquess' -- what was his game and why had he really agreed to sponsor the brothers to a London Season?) -- that sometimes things got rushed along so that she could tie things up nicely enough for the happily-ever-after ending. And while Julia Parks does a rather good job of juggling all these subplots but I couldn't help feeling that by including so much material this novel suffered from not having enough depth -- for example, I felt that the story of how the romance develops and grows between Clarissa and Montgomery suffers because too much time was spent on other characters (like Max and Tristram who will have their own stories anyway).  <br />On the whole though, in spite of these few nitpickings on my part, I did think that \\"To Marry an Heiress\\" was a nice enough read, well worth the time spent reading it, and that based on how much I enjoyed this installment, I would definitely be reading the other two installments in the Darby Brothers series.	2003-05-29
1122130:US	52830980	R1PIRBTFJQJLH6	082177395X	407235331	Rachel's Change Of Heart (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	a pleasant 3 star read	&quot;Rachel's Change of Heart&quot; starts off where &quot;Pamela's Second Season&quot; ends, with Pamela marrying Lord Strongwycke and the realisation on Rachel's part that her engagement to the fastidious and cool Lord Yarnell may not be in her best interests after all. While I rather liked &quot;Rachel's Change of Heart,&quot; I have to concede that what made this book readable was the secondary plot involving Rachel's renewed friendship with her neighbour, Andromenda Varens, (Colin's eccentric sister) and Andromeda's slow and sedate romance with another male character in the book. <br />For as along as she can remember, both Rachel and her mother have schemed for her to have a London Season so that she could secure an advantageous marriage. The very thought that Rachel should marry for love had never really entered either lady's mind. And yet, now that Rachel has finally achieved her life's goal, she's having second thoughts. Lord Yarnell is everything that Rachel and her mother could have wished for -- a pillar of society, he's both rich and good looking. But there are drawbacks to this union as well. Lord Yarnell seems to be a bit of a cold fish, and then there is also his mother, a snobbish and interfering lady who has made it only all too clear that she intends to live with the couple after they have married and that she intends to rule the roost. <br />As Rachel beings to question the very wisdom of remaining engaged to Yarnell, she starts to reexamine her relationships with her friends and her family as well, and begins to realise just how much she has allowed to slip out of her life because of her mad pursuit of a 'suitable' marriage partner. Suddenly her old relationship with Colin Varens (a neighbour from Yorkshire who has been in love with her forever) seems to be more important than ever. But Colin has hinted that he has given up on his pursuit of her and wants only to be friends. Can Rachel be satisfied with this? While Rachel may not be sure of what she wants (or who), she realises only all to well that time is running out and that she will have to decide soon as to which path she should pursue... <br />I think I would have personally preferred it if there had been much more interaction between Rachel and the gentleman she ultimately chose for a husband and if the entire boxing-subplot had been so prominent. This may have, perhaps, allowed for the romance subplot to be a little more in the fore than it actually was in this novel. However, I did like that the novel focused on how Rachel becomes a better friend towards Andromeda -- in fact when the novel focuses on how these two women become better and closer friends, the book is a 4 star read (though a little more focus and time spent on Andromeda's romance would not have been amiss either). Unfortunately, given that the romance factor was sadly lacking for much of the book, and that in order to fully appreciate this novel, and Rachel's epiphany, you probably should read &quot;A Country Courtship&quot; &amp; &quot;Pamela's Second Season&quot; first, &quot;Rachel's Change of Heart&quot; becomes more of a 3 star read, and one with a few caveats.	2003-05-16
1122714:US	52830980	R319D240LRMERN	0385508409	860702312	The White Russian: A Novel	Books	5	10	12	N	N	compelling and haunting	Set in St. Petersburg (mainly) in 1917, while WWI is still raging and the threat of a popular revolution is ever looming, Tom Bradby has successfully penned another tautly paced and perplexing murder mystery/thriller for us to enjoy. <br />Three years ago, Chief Investigator Sandro Rusky took the responsibility when a callous landlord was killed while in police custody. For his negligence, Rusky was banished to Tobolsk in Siberia. Now, his exile is over and he's back in St. Petersburg and almost at once he's involved in a very grisly murder investigation. <br />The bodies of a man and woman have been found on the ice of the frozen River Neva just outside the Winter Palace. The woman has been stabbed once but the man has been stabbed several times and viciously at that. Almost from the first several things about this violent crime perplex Rusky. For example, the location -- why was so public a site chosen for the murders? And then there is the evidence that seems to support the fact that the murderer had carefully stepped in the tracks of the couple before and after the crime, only stepping out of them before he struck. And finally the savagery with which (s)he had stabbed the man over and over again, together with the murderer's strange abandonment of the murder weapon... Even more intriguing is the fact that the Tsar's secret police, the Okhrana, seem to be inordinately interested in this crime. But if these little bits of facts are perplexing in themselves, it is nothing compared to Rusky's colleagues's attitude towards the crime. None of them seem anxious to solve these grisly murders -- esp when all avenues in this investigation seem to lead to the Imperial family. Are they wary because they fear that their involvement will net them a fate similar to Rusky's three years ago? Or are they just fearful because a bloody revolution seems inevitable right now? Not sure of whom he can rely on, and with his own load of crippling emotional baggage, Rusky is determined nonetheless to solve these murders no matter where it leads, whom it involves and what it costs him...<br />My best bit of advice (aside from reading this book that is) is to avoid reading reviews that really deal with too much of the plot synopsis or plot development. It's enough to note that this is a really excellent novel and a worthwhile read and buy. Tom Bradby does a truly good job of drawing out the suspense factor via a few really good plot twists, as well as keeping the pacing taut and not allowing things to become too bogged down. Also nicely done was the manner in which he conveys the feel of doom and panic as the characters in the book come to grips with the fact that a way of life is over, and that change -- violent change -- is in the air, and that no one is at all sure which way to jump. You get the notion, when reading \\"White Russian\\" that Tom Bradby really knows what he's writing about. <br />Rich, dark and atmospheric, \\"White Russian\\" is one mystery novel that should not be missed (and I'm not going to get into which of Bradby's books is better -- they're both equally excellent reads in my opinion). It's compelling and haunting, and is should be on the short-list for Best Mystery Novel of the Year.	2003-05-16
1129125:US	52830980	R2Z6W33B5XD48T	0451208374	266715703	The Fleeing Heiress (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	a wonderful read	If you're looking for a somewhat lighthearted and humourous Regency-era romance novel reminiscent of Georgette Heyer's wonderful books, you have to take a look at Gayle Buck's latest offering, &quot;The Fleeing Heiress.&quot; <br />Recently home from the wars, and fresh from attending a house party where he successfully apprehended a French spy (&quot;The Chester Charade&quot;), Lord David Cardiff was on his way home when he decides to break his journey at a small inn. At the inn, he overhears enough of a conversation to realise that a young lady, Thea Strafford, has been abducted against her will and that her abductor is intemt on carrying her off to Gretna Green in order to force into marriage. A honourable and chivalrous gentleman, Cardiff steps in and rescues Thea from her tormentor. A happy ending all around, one would think. Except that the following morning brings Thea's father and her twin brothers -- three incredibly stubborn and thickheaded men -- who then decide that Cardiff must now marry Thea in order to restore her sullied reputation. What follows is a humourous and somewhat witty romp as Thea and Cardiff endeavour to cajole and divert these gentlemen from their purpose Will Thea and Cardiff succeed? And what of the feelings of warmth and admiration that each is beginning to feel for the other?<br />There was so much to enjoy in &quot;The Fleeing Heiress&quot;. The plot, the characters (from the sensible and much put upon heroine, to the intelligent and gentlemanly hero, to the brick-brained Stafford men, not to mention athe eccentric cat loving grand aunt), the humourous episodes -- this was a really well thought out and brillaintly penned romance novel. And while many things about this novel was quite a la Georgette Heyer, this did not mean that &quot;The Fleeing Heiress&quot; lacked an original voice. To the contrary, &quot;The Fleeing Heiress&quot; had a fresh feel to it. There was nothing recycled or stale or incongruous about it. And I do think that Gayle Buck succeeded in both paying homage to Georgette Heyer (if this was indeed what she was setting out to do) as well as putting her own personal stamp to the book. Smoothly told, and in an engaging and humourous manner, this is a book to be savoured and enjoyed. Definitely a 5 star read.	2003-05-10
1130384:US	52830980	R39ULN1WXF2SBI	0451209001	244306309	Prospero's Daughter (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	a thoroughly worthwhile and wonderful read	Usually, Regency-era romance novels fall into certain cateogories -- one category includes the types of plots on which the hero and heroine have previously parted ways because on a BIG MISUNDERSTANDING and the entire book deals with how they work through this misunderstanding when they finally meet up; or else there is the category that includes either the hero or heroine going up to London for a Season and meeting with all kinds of adventures while falling in love along the way; and then there is the category that involves the heroine becoming involved with either a murder or spy investigation that the hero in conducting; also the couple who marry for convenience and then discover love with each other category -- but there are also novels that don't fall into easily defined categories, and Nancy Butler's \\"Prospero's Daughter\\" is one of those. Actually, I rather think that it was a storyline that I've never come across before in a 'light' Regency-era romance, and it was a gem of a read.<br />Three years ago, a disastrous carriage accident had left Miranda Runyon an orphan, scarred and without the use of her arms and legs. Feeling alone, numb and completely hopeless, Miranda has led the life of a complete invalid, staying in bed all day accept for a brief sojourn to the garden for some fresh air. Her relatives' (the father's cousins, the Palfrys) habit of isolating and ignoring her existence hasn't helped matters either. Indeed, it has only reinforced her feelings of alienation and bitterness. And then, one day, she meets a strange young man in the garden. But instead of reeling away from her in disgust and revulsion, this young man proceeds to engage her in conversation. Angry that he has broken in on her solitude, Miranda rebuffs this friendly stranger, but he seems intent on ignoring her rudeness. Who is this strange gentleman and why does he want to spend time with a scarred cripple like her when her beautiful (and whole) cousins are at hand to entertain and charm?<br />Morgan Pearce had bowed to his friend's (Ronald) persuasion to go to Ronald's father's estate and to help the older gentleman with his memoirs. On the surface, everything at Palfry Park seems to be delightful -- the beauty of the estate to his genial host and his host's beautiful daughters. That is, until he comes across ignored cousin Miranda in the garden. Morgan is appalled at how the Palfrys have treated Miranda, and is determined to help the stubborn woman in spite of herself. But how to make her accept his help? In the clash of wills that follows, an unexpected friendship and bond develops between the two. But where will this bond take them? And are either Miranda or Morgan ready to explore this unexpected development?<br />Nancy Butler has penned another gem! True, there is very little of the unexpected in this novel -- you know who will pair off with whom and you more or less know that at some point the bottom is going to fall out of Miranda's and Morgan's world -- and yet, I found myself eagerly turning the pages, reading to see what will happen next. And while main plot did revolve around the friendship and gentle blossoming of a romance between Morgan and Miranda, there were also two other subplots involving Morgan's sister, Kitty, and another involving Morgan's uneasy relationship with this father. All these get resolved nicely and smoothly, so that you actually get the sense of reading a much, much longer book. All the characters (secondary and primary) were well developed and realised. I thought that the authour had done a really good job in developing Miranda's character -- we get to see her blossom from a sullen and bitter woman to a much stronger, more self assured and more hopeful young lady. The other thing that I really liked about this novel was that it was a really beautiful love story that hadn't been spoilt with nay really silly plot contrivances. If I had any complaints it was that a thoroughly nice young man was being threatened with a match with a rather unpleasant young lady. (You'll have to read the book to find out who!) All in all, a thoroughly worthwhile and wonderful read.	2003-05-09
1135413:US	52830980	RIZCL4J16DR3A	0553802712	307510881	Late for the Wedding	Books	4	8	9	N	N	an enjoyable read	Of the three Lavinia Lake-Tobias March Romance-Mystery novels out so far, I liked \\"Late for the Wedding\\" best. Not only was the story was a lot more intriguing and interesting this time around, but also this novel showcased the working relationship that Lavinia and March share a great deal better, presenting each individual's strengths and weaknesses thus allowing us to understand why they make such a good team.<br />Tobias and Lavinia hoped that by attending the Beaumont Castle house party, they would get the chance to spend some intimate and romantic time together without fear of being interrupted by anyone or anything. Unfortunately for them, this does not come to pass. First, an old acquittance from Tobias's past, the hauntingly beautiful Aspasia Gray, begs his help. She's being threatened because of her past relationship with the assassin, the Momento Mori Man. Fearing for her life, she begs Tobias (and Lavinia) to investigate and to discover who is threatening her and why. But the investigation takes a more ominous tone when just hours after Aspasia approaches him, a guest dies under suspicious circumstances. A quick look at the man's room reveals that the Momento Mori Man may have had something to do with the unfortunate man's death. Now, Tobias and Lavinia must pool their talents and resources in order to unmask this new Momento Mori Man and put an end to his murderous career, and time is of the essence. For who can tell exactly when the assassin will decide that this battle of wits and wills is too hazardous to his own safety and decide to put an end to Tobias and Lavinia?<br />What I esp liked about this book was that it really showcased Lavinia's strengths as a detective. I may be remembering wrong but I don't think that the other two books in the series did this. \\"Late for the Wedding\\" on the other hand focused on the value of feminine knowledge, and I for one, really enjoyed this. Fast paced, cleverly plotted and with some really splendid scene desciptions, \\"Late for the Wedding\\" proved to be an exciting read that I was glad I had not missed.	2003-05-04
1138660:US	52830980	R19BIECSRCQ9YW	0440241057	429766150	Slightly Wicked (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	4	21	21	N	N	a good read	&quot;Slightly Wicked&quot; is the second in the Bedwyn series. And while it was a pleasant enough read, it wasn't vintage Mary Balogh either. <br />Miss Judith Law is on her way to her aunt's house where she will begin her life as a poor (and I'm assuming unpaid) relation, when the stagecoach she's traveling in meets with an accident. Along comes a dashing gentleman on a horse. He introduces himself as Mr. Bedard, and offers to take Judith to the next town; and she, sensing that this will be her last chance to have one daring and grand adventure before her life of unending drudgery begins, agrees to go with him. Judith passes herself off as out of work actress, Claire Campell, and succumbing to Mr. Bedard's charms, agrees to spend the night with him. But the next morning, she leaves in order to resume her life as poor relation, Judith Law. At worst, in Judith's mind, she will find herself pregnant; at best, she will have one precious memory to hold for the rest of her life. The last thing she expected was that her dashing gentleman would turn up in the neighbourhood, that he would turn out not to be plain Mr. Bedard, but Lord Rannulf Bedwyn, the Duke of Bewcastle's younger brother, and that he is expected to make a match of it with her spoilt and self-centered cousin, Julianne.<br />What should Judith do? Learn to grit her teeth and bear the sight of Lord Rannulf courting her cousin? Or should she give into Lord Rannulf's demands that she marry him? For a woman who wants love and passion from her marriage, the very thought of marrying someone because he feels obliged to is an anathema! What Judith discovers however is that she has far more resolve, courage and honour than she herself had ever expected, and that holding true to her heart may bring the greatest reward after all... <br />As with &quot;A Summer to Remember&quot; &amp; &quot;Slightly Married&quot; there was nothing terribly new about the plot of &quot;Slightly Wicked&quot; -- not even an invigorating plot twist or two. And except for the principle two characters, the rest of the cast wasn't exactly memorable either. However, it is the characters of the heroine (Judith), the hero (Rannulf) and how they cope with the situation they find themselves in that makes this book so very readable and engrossing. Judith is, I think, a heroine that most readers will definitely take to their hearts and root for. A fast paced plot that unfolded smoothly and seamlessly, &quot;Slightly Wicked&quot; a well written romance novel not to be missed.	2003-05-01
1142438:US	52830980	RGVAS2QF556KN	0821773534	658723905	Frost Fair Fiance (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	not exactly the usual, but a pleasant read nonetheless	Here's what I hope will be two helpful hints that might increase your reading pleasure: 1) don't read the plot synopsis at the back of the book as it gives far too much of the plot away; and 2) don't expect to read the everyday Regency-era romance novel either because \\"Frost Fair Fiance\\" reads more like Fanny Burney's \\"Evelina\\" in that it is an accounting of a young lady's sojourn in London and how her stay changes and affects her future.<br />Miss Elsie MacGregor has agreed to marry her neighbour, Robert Westbrook. So what if he's a little older and a rather dour individual? At least her future is assured and she's managed to please her father. In fact her father is so happy about the match that he's decided that Elsie (and her younger sister, Olivia) should go to London so that Elsie can purchase her bridal clothes. The sisters will stay with their paternal aunt, Mrs. Ravinia Longfellow and her family. With their aunt as chaperon, the MacGregor sisters soon begin to enjoy dizzy round of shopping, balls and entertainments. And it doesn't take Elsie too long to realise that she may have been a little too hasty about her decision to marry a man she doesn't love and who she knows does not love her. Especially when the delightful Mr. James Gray is at hand to pay her handsome compliments. Has she fallen for the debanoir and polished James Gray? Why then does the irritating Walter Belvedere so fill her thoughts then?<br />\\"Frost Fair Fiance\\" is a follow-up to \\"An Icy Affair\\" and was a rather pleasant read. I thought that Mona Gedney did a really good job showing us how Elsie comes to waiver in her decision to marry Robert Westbrook, and in developing Elsie's character as well. However I did have two little 'niggles' about the book -- 1) I felt somewhat at sea because the authour doesn't really explain why an attractive, intelligent and well to do young lady would decide to marry her neighbour without even considering a London Season. Perhaps this was explained in \\"An IcyAffair.\\" But because I haven't read that book yet, Elsie's motivations left me feeling quite bewildered! And 2) I thought that the romance that developed between Elsie and the hero was rather hastily done. Suddenly it was there, and everything then proceeded to gallop towards the happily-ever-after ending at a really fast pace. Other than these two issues, I thought that \\"Frost Fair Fiance\\" was a rather good read, and one worth recommending for it's a-little-out-of-the-ordinary quality.	2003-04-28
1144731:US	52830980	R1HMWKD9CBCV3A	0821775235	159845606	The Ashcroft Curse (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	interesting plot marred by not very likeable heroine	This is another Regency-era romance novel in which the amount of enjoyment you get is going to be a matter of personal taste. I found myself not liking either the heroine or the hero very much -- I actually liked the \\"other\\" woman a lot better and found myself wishing that Maria Greene had spent a great deal more time on her and her (potential) romance! <br />Miss Jillian Ashecroft is determined to end the curse that has dogged her family for centuries. Apparently hundreds of years ago, a powerful witch, Lucinda Endicott, cursed the Ashecrofts for all time, and the family has floundered ever since. Now Jillian is afraid that she is next in line to suffer from the curse and she has decided to do something about it. Using the research that her father had done before his death, Jillian comes to the conclusion that the only way to break the curse is to obtain a magical stone in the possession of the last of the Endicotts, Miss Laura Endicott. Laura, however, seems to be a bit of a recluse, never leaving her Cornwall estate. And so Jillian decides to blackmail Laura's fiance, Sir Richard Blackwood, into obtaining the magical stone for her. <br />Sir Richard is, of course, furious. But while he refuses to do Jillian's dirty work for her, he does agree to get Jillian and her aunt invited to Endicott Keep. It will be up to Jillian to get the stone by fair means of foul. Once there, however, Jillian finds her plans are in jeopardy of coming undone. To begin with she finds her hostess, Laura Endicott, to be not quite what she was expecting. And there is her reaction to the maddening but extremely attractive Sir Richard. He seems to despise her, but Jillian cannot deny how he makes her heart race. What's a beleaguered young lady with a curse hanging over her head to do?<br />My main problem with \\"The Ashecroft Curse\\" (and I freely admit I'm biased here) was that I really took against the heroine, Jillian Ashecroft. She was pushy and rude -- and I really don't like people who resort to blackmail even if the ends seem to justify the means. I think she was supposed to come across as determined, intelligent and practical -- unfortunately the authour forgot to make her heroine courteous, warmhearted and kind as well. This lack shows through especially when one is able to compare Jillian's character with that of Laura's. Some readers may find Laura to be a bit insipid, but I found myself warming to this character and wishing that Ms Greene had spent more time and effort on Laura. And there was the problem of Sir Richard, who came across as stiff, bad humoured and totally lacking in any kind of integrity. Well, I suppose that it is difficult to be upright and sunny natured when you're being blackmailed by someone you're attracted to. But I was glad that Maria Greene paired off Jillian and Sir Richard -- they did deserve each other.<br />On the other hand \\"The Ashecroft Curse\\" did possess a rather interesting storyline, and one that I felt compelled to read all the way through even when Jillian's actions exasperated me no end. The prose style was good -- no glaring lapses into 20th century Americanisms, and the story did unfold smoothly. So, all in all, a solid 3 star read.	2003-04-26
1145087:US	52830980	RZF4IBP1KZ9L1	0446531510	765311385	Land of the Living (French, Nicci)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	an excellent read	Out of all the Nicci French novels that I've read so far, \\"Land of the Living\\" is definitely my favourite. Suspenseful and fast paced, I stayed up all night in order to finish it -- it was definitely a book that was hard to put down.<br />I'm not going to summarise the plot too much because the story is a really a rather basic one and also because going into it too much may take away from the overall enjoyment of this really excellent book if you haven't read it yet. The novel opens with our heroine, Abbie Deveraux, coming to consciousness, only to realise that she's being held captive. Quickly she realises that her kidnapper is mad and that he will probably kill her once he's finished with her. But she is determined to survive. And when an opportunity presents itself, Abbie escapes. Her ordeal is now over. Or is it? She's lost her immediate short term memory, and has no idea as to what occurred in the days leading up to her kidnapping. On top of it all, she discovers to her shock and anger, that because that is no physical evidence to support her story, no one -- not the police, her NHS psychiatrist or her friends -- believes her story. Alone, Abbie is determined to piece together the past she has forgotten, and to find out why the kidnapper chose her. She also comes to the realisation that she needs to find the kidnapper before he finds her. Because she knows that he will come after her and that she has only herself to rely on...<br />\\"Land of a Living\\" was a really fantastic read. Brilliantly plotted, with some rather surprising plot twists and possessing a really compelling storyline, this really is a book that had me sitting at the edge of my seat -- metaphorically anyway. The 'action' unfolded smoothly and seamlessly and at a rather swift pace. I really cannot praise this book too much, and my recommendation is that if you're a mystery-suspense buff, then you really should read what is probably going to be the best suspenseful novel of the year.	2003-04-26
1156885:US	52830980	RKO1TB9T92O2N	0821772929	909462950	When The Slipper Fits (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	a charming fairy tale-like romance	&quot;When the Slipper Fits&quot; finishes the fairy-tale trilogy by Lynn Collum that centers on three very good friends Sara, Ella and Rosamund. &quot;When the Slipper Fits&quot; is Ella's story and is, as the title suggests, modeled on the fairy tale CINDERELLA. And of the three (&quot;Miss Whiting and the Seven Wards&quot; &amp; &quot;A Kiss At Midnight&quot; being the other two books in the trilogy), I actually liked this one best. (Which of course totally messes up my previous ratings of the other two books in the series, but then that's life.)<br />Gabriel Crowe, the Earl of Shalford, has unintentionally put himself in an untenable position. In order to save his younger brother, Daniel, from their father's wrath, Gabriel has taken the blame for Daniel's latest scrape. The last thing that Gabriel expected, however, was for their furious father to decree that Gabriel must find a suitable bride (of wealth and acceptable connections) within a month and in the country. Gabriel is appalled but has little choice but to comply. Once in the country, however, Gabriel meets Ella Sanderson, whom he first mistakes for a maid, and is immediately drawn to this beautiful, intelligent and kind young lady. Unfortunately Ella doesn't meet his parents' standards as a suitable wife -- she's a poor relation in spite of the fact that she's a viscount's daughter. On top of it all, Gabriel's mother has made up her mind as to whom Gabriel should marry and is hell bent on pushing the match down his throat! What will Gabriel do? Give up the young lady who has stolen his heart? Or stand his ground and face his parents' anger?<br />What made this novel really memorable was the slightly complex family relationship that Gabriel and his siblings had with their parents. Lynn Collum does a wonderful job here of developing that theme. She also does a really good job with 'fleshing ' out the different characters in the book -- esp those of Ella and Gabriel. As with the other two books however, the romance that developed between Ella and Gabriel was a little sketchy. You know that they're both attracted to each to each other, but the developing romance was, I felt, a little sketchy. However, the authour does maintain that fairy tale-like air splendidly, and I found this book to be a rather charming and pleasing one, so that I'm going to vote it as a book to be read if you're looking for something lighthearted to enjoy.	2003-04-16
1158250:US	52830980	R308E0SJUVZBBS	0425189465	725787494	Chocolate Quake (Culinary Food Writer)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	a good 'light' mystery	The Carolyn Blue culinary-travelogue mysteries are, I'll admit, one of my favourites. And while the multiple point-of view narratives were unnecessary, in my opinion, and a bit distracting, (in \\"Chocolate Quake\\" we're not only privy to Carolyn's and her husband, Jason's, thoughts but also those of San Francisco private detective, Sam Flamboise's thoughts as well), the mystery was so interesting and intriguing that it captured my attention completely.<br />Carolyn and Jason are in San Francisco -- he to attend a conference, while Carolyn has tagged along so that she can sample (and write about) the sights and foods of that unique city. But first business before pleasure: San Francisco is also the current home of Carolyn's critical feminist mother-in-law, Vera. But when Carolyn makes the curtesy call to Vera to inform her of their arrival, the last thing she expects is to be greeted with the news that Vera has been arrested for murder. Vera, who has been working at the Union Street Women's Center, has been accused of stabbing to death Denise Faulks, the center's accountant. The evidence against Vera is circumstantial at best, unfortunately the police believing that they have their murderer have stopped investigating the crime completely; while neither Vera, nor Jason for that matter, seem to be taking this crisis seriously. And it's beginning to dawn upon Carolyn that she will have to discover who the real murderer is and solve this crime herself! Now, if she can also figure out how to cope with all the tremors as well as fit in a couple of restaurant stopovers and some sight-seeing as well...<br />What made this book a fun read was Nancy Fairbanks's descriptions and sights and foods of San Francisco. Her character portrayals were very well done as well. And while I didn't really think all those multiple narratives were all that essential, they didn't in any way interfere with the smooth unfolding of the plot. Mystery-wise, however, I'll have to admit it was fairly easy to figure out who the culprit(s) actually was/were. Still, \\"Chocolate Quake\\" was a rather fun read and one that was well worth the money spent.	2003-04-15
1161108:US	52830980	RFM2UFL01O3R6	0451208366	579062685	The Diamond Key (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	11	13	N	N	2 1/2 star read	I'd like to preface my comments by stating that I've always been a huge Barbara Metzger fan. I've found nearly every one of her books to be witty, intelligent and well written ones that have always given me hours of pleasurable reading. Which was why I was rather dismayed when I discovered that \\"The Diamond Key\\" just failed to entertain and satisfy on any level.<br />After several seasons, beautiful and much sought after Lady Victoria Keyes has yet to find the one gentleman that she could pledge her heart and hand in marriage to. Which is why when she finds herself trapped in a deadly blaze at her modiste's, she rashly vows to marry the very next man who askes her no matter who (or what) he is. Fortunately for Lady Victoria she's rescued -- but by Viscount Ingall, a social outcast whom rumour has it murdered his mistress's husband! Of course Lady Victoria (who has fallen for the good-looking viscount) decides that she will marry the handsome and intriguing gentleman. But he will have none of it -- afterall he as some honour (even if society has decided that has none) even if he is drawn to the delectable Lady Victoria. Who will win this battle of wills? The viscount will soon learns that no gentleman can nay say a determined young lady...<br />\\"The Diamond Key\\" is not a badly written book. To the contrary. It's just a matter of personal taste. And I was not quite in the mood for a romance novel in which the heroine basically sets her cap on the hero and goes out of her way to get him! Along the way were several supposedly amusing interludes involving the viscount and several other ladies he's trying to help and who all decid that he has to marry them for one reason or the other. Perhaps if I had been a better frame of mind these interludes may have been amusing, as it so happened I just found these episodes tired and overdone. However, while the pacing was a little erratic, the character portrayals were rather good, as was the prose style. Overall however I'd have to say that there have been better Barbara Metzger Regency novels (like \\"An Enchanted Affair,\\" \\"Miss Tredwell's Talent\\" & \\"The Painted Lady\\") and my advice is that readers who have not had the pleasure of enjoying any of her works yet give those a try first.	2003-04-12
1161713:US	52830980	R1DX8U55INLTAQ	0451208382	195419447	Miranda's Mistake (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	a good read	Seven years ago, Miranda Hemsley jilted Evan Langley so that she could marry the very rich (and much older) Earl of Crandle. Miranda, of course, did this in order to save her family from destitution. Now, she's a sophisticated widow of the ton and spends her time in London partaking in all the many diversions and social amusements that her position and wealth entitles her to. But she's never forgotten her first love nor has she ceased to regret her very abrupt jilting of Evan. The last thing she expected, however, when she accepted her good friend (and former governess), Lady Beatrice Rothwell's invitation to attend a house party at Beatrice's country estate was to find Evan there as one of the guests, and as a suitor for Beatrice's stepdaughter's, Artemis, hand in marriage!<br />Evan Langley thought that he had managed to put all thoughts (save bitter and angry ones) of Miranda behind him. Yet, he cannot ignore just how much the sight of her still manages to stir and ignite him after all this time. Evan is determined to ignore this resurgence of feeling and concentrate on courting Artemis instead. But he has to contend with a very determined Miranda however who has decided that Evan will just not do for her very young friend. Who will win this battle of wills? Will Evan and Miranda be able to overlook their strong feelings for each other? And what of Artemis who has decided that Evan would suit her as a husband admirably?<br />\\"Miranda's Mistake\\" while it does center on a much used plot device proved to be rather pleasant read. Miranda and Evan were quite the typical stock hero and heroine type, likable but with flaws a plenty and a tendency (on Evan's part in particular) not to forgive past wrongs easily. What I liked about this novel in particular was Jenna Mindel's portrayal of Artemis Rothwell and all the insecurities she felt and dealt with since she was not the typical ingenue type we're all familiar with. And while I was a little disappointed that very little of her story was resolved, I'm hoping that the authour has planned a sequel to \\"Miranda's Mistake\\" which would feature Artemis as heroine. On the whole though, if you're in the mood for a well written novel that focuses on the second chance at love gambit, \\"Miranda's Mistake\\" would do amply.	2003-04-12
1163189:US	52830980	R20VL5FWUN3LFL	0440241049	880815333	Slightly Married	Books	4	1	2	N	N	a touching and grwon up romance novel	\\"Slightly Married\\" is the first installment in a new series of books by Mary Balogh featuring the Bedwyn siblings (first introduced to readers in \\"A Summer To Remember\\"). And while, as other reviewers have already noted, the storyline hinges on a not entirely original plot-premise, the authour's thoughtful and skillfully storytelling skills makes \\"Slightly Married\\" a very compelling read, and well worth recommending as a worthwhile read.<br />Once Captain Percy Morris saved his commanding officer's (Colonel Lord Aidan Bedwyn) life in the heat of battle, and now, as Morris lies dying, he begs Aidan repay that debt by seeking out Morris's sister, Eve, out in and by promising to take care and protect her no matter what the personal cost. An honourable and dependable gentleman, Aidan makes for Ringwood Manor in Oxfordshire as soon as he's able in order to break the news of Morris's death to Eve, and to give Eve whatever aid she may need. There, he discovers that there was indeed a reason for Morris's heartfelt plea.<br />According to their father's will, while Ringwood Manor belongs to Eve, she'll loose everything to her nasty cousin Cecil unless she's married by the time her father's one year death anniversary comes around. That date is just a few weeks away, and Eve has yet to marry, nor is there a prospective suitor in sight. And because Cecil has threatened to turn out all of Eve's faithful and dependent servants as well as the pair of orphans that she's taking care of, as well as her penniless aunt, Eve is in a real bind. So that when Aidan proposes a paper marriage -- he will give her the security of his name while they will live apart and make no claims on her wealth or property -- Eve finds herself accepting this strange proposal of marriage. However the couple contends without the intervention of the proud and autocratic Duke of Bewcastle (Aidan's elder brother). Concerned about the reputation of his family, he's not about to allow Aidan's hole-in-the-corner marriage make the Bedwyns the season's latest bit of gossip, and he persuades Eve to allow the family to introduce her into society. Suddenly this paper marriage is beginning to feel and seem like a real one as Aidan and Eve struggle with the realties of their situation -- like the fact that they come from two very different social milieux, how exactly each will fit into the other's world, and how exactly to deal with the feelings that each is developing for the other, esp when they're not sure what the other wants or expects from this marriage...<br />\\"Slightly Married\\" may not read like a grand love story, and indeed some readers may feel a little dissatisfied about the manner in which this story unfolds -- sexual tension doesn't exactly sizzle between Eve and Aidan. And yet, I found \\"Slightly Married\\" to be a totally compelling read. This is an almost entirely character driven novel. And what makes this book work are the characters of Aidan and Eve, and the gradual manner in which the authour allowed for both Eve and Aidan to gradually discover each other's strengths, vulnerabilites and loveable qualities -- it made me believe that this marriage would definitely stand the test of time and circumstances. (And reading about how Eve deals with these autocratic Bedwyns was definitely satisfying as well.) So, if you're looking for a well written and intelligently crafted book, with central characters that will win you over completely, \\"Slightly Married\\" is definitely the book for you. It may not be a BIG and GRAND romance novel, but is nevertheless quite a nice, quiet gem of a read.rriage make the Bedwyns the season's latest bit of gossip, and he persuades Eve to allow the family to introduce her into society. Suddenly this paper marriage is beginning to feel and seem like a real one as Aidan and Eve struggle with the realties of their situation -- like the fact that they come from two very different social milieux, how exactly each will fit into the other's world, and how exactly to deal with the feelings that each is developing for the other, esp when they're not sure what the other wants or expects from this marriage...<br />\\"Slightly Married\\" may not read like a grand love story, and indeed some readers may feel a little dissatisfied about the manner in which this story unfolds -- sexual tension doesn't exactly sizzle between Eve and Aidan. And yet, I found \\"Slightly Married\\" to be a totally compelling read. This is an almost entirely character driven novel. And what makes this book work are the characters of Aidan and Eve, and the gradual manner in which the authour allowed for both Eve and Aidan to gradually discover each other's strengths, vulnerabilites and loveable qualities -- it made me believe that this marriage would definitely stand the test of time and circumstances. (And reading about how Eve deals with these autocratic Bedwyns was definitely satisfying as well.) So, if you're looking for a well written and intelligently crafted book, with central characters that will win you over completely, \\"Slightly Married\\" is definitely the book for you. It may not be a BIG and GRAND romance novel, but is nevertheless quite a nice, quiet gem of a read.	2003-04-10
1163807:US	52830980	R2MK58WAXK0CFX	0312282664	607662132	The Dragon King's Palace: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	fast paced and exciting -- an enjoyable read	Another exciting and fast paced Sano Ichiro mystery novel! And truthfully speaking, if you're looking for a good historical mystery novel that will keep you at the edge of your seat, you need not look any further than this latest Sano Ichiro installment, &quot;The Dragon King's Palace.&quot;<br />It's June of 1694, and the city of Edo seems to be suffering from the effects of a particularly bad heat wave. In order to escape this stiflingly bad weather, Lady Keisho-in, shogun Tokugawa Tsunayoshi (Japan's supreme military leader)'s mother has decided to mount a 'small' trip to Mount Fuji. And she's decided that Reiko (the wife of Sano Ichiro who also happens to be the shogun's Most Honourable Investigator of Events, Situations and People), Reiko's heavily pregnant good friend, Midori (who is also the wife of Sano's most trusted aide, Hirata), and Lady Yanagisawa (the wife of Chamberlain Yanagiswa, the shogun's second-in-command and Sano's arch enemy) should accompany her on this trip. But en route to Mount Fuji, the party is attacked; the ladies are kidnapped and Lady Keisho-in's entire entourage of servants and guards slaughtered. Who could have mounted such an outrageous attack, and why? Was it some power hungry daimyo trying to show just how weak and powerless the shogun actually is? Or could it be some enemy of the Chamberlain's retaliating for some past wrong? Or could it be as Sano fears, that the Black Lotus sect trying to seek revenge on Sano for having caused the downfall of their once powerful and wealthy sect? Thrown together because of circumstances, Sano and the Chamberlain must put their past distrust and dislike of each other behind them so that they can discover who actually is responsible for the kidnapping as well as mount a rescue of the ladies before it's too late. But even as the two men face the danger and treachery around them, neither is quite ready for the strange and amazing twists that this case will take, or the personal cost that each willsuffer...<br />I finished &quot;The Dragon King's Palace&quot; in one sitting. Fortunately, I had the day off -- a day I had planned to do a lot of weeding! Instead of which I found that I had spent the entire afternoon breathlessly turning the pages, reading along as Sano tried to discover who was behind this outrageous kidnapping and hoping that Reiko did not come up a cropper! What an exciting and suspenseful read this was. Laura Joh Rowland has written a cleverly plotted book that is full of wonderful and rich detail, and that fits in (comfortably) with the past books in this series. I particularly liked that this book really focused on the courage, intelligence and resourcefulness of Reiko. The novel unfolded smoothly, seamlessly and at an incredibly swift pace. All in all, a really good installment in the Sano Ichiro mystery series, and one not to be missed.	2003-04-10
1177837:US	52830980	R23GK7VEJKC29Y	0741413892	21618571	Canceled Courtship	Books	3	4	4	N	N	a good 3 1/2 star read	\\"Canceled Courtship\\" has a great many good points -- a really fantastic and interesting storyline, some really intriguing characters and a rather brilliant portrayal of pure evil. Unfortunately, it also suffers from some drawbacks like a somewhat choppy writing style, a few inconstancies in character, and some careless editing. On the whole though the positives far outweigh the negatives, so that the novel turned out to be quite the read.<br />Since her mother's death and her father's, Sir Geoffrey, collapse, Cecilia Sentenell has been running the estate and taking care of her father. Some of this changes when her mother's old friend, Lady Rolande, comes for a visit. Lady Rolande's good cheer and herbal remedies seem to be exactly what Sir Geoffrey needs, so that when Lady Rolande suggests that Sir Geoffrey and Cecilia accompany her and her daughter, Hedra, to London for the Season, father and daughter are only too happy to comply. But once in London, Cecilia finds her life becoming complicated in unexpected ways. To begin with Cecilia attracts the attentions of a rather notorious and much sought after rake, the Earl of Arandale -- someone that Hedra had earmarked for herself. Not caring much for the stiff and rakish earl, Cecilia does her best to let him see just how much she holds him in contempt (even if he does awaken some rather thrilling sensations within her), but to no avail. It seems that the earl is intent in courting her in spite of her disapproval! And then Cecilia also begins to notice that there's something a little shady about Lady Rolande, but she's hard-pressed to say exactly what it is about Lady Rolande that's making her uneasy. How will the efficient and independent Cecilia handle all her fears and concerns?<br />Story-wise, \\"Canceled Courtship\\" is brilliant. I liked how Gloria Gay gradually brought Cecilia and the earl together, and how she made the earl realize how shabbily he had been behaving. And her characterization of the two evil characters in the book was fantastic. A better portrayal of pure evil, I have seldom come across. The trouble is that, for me, the novel suffered from not being long enough. Certain subplots and characters (like the one involving Sadie and Violet, for example), could have done with more development and several added chapters. Also, there were certain character inconstancies where Cecilia was concerned that almost made me wonder about her -- she'd be curious and concerned about certain inconstancies in Lady Rolande's confidences in some chapters, and not care a hoot about them in others. I began to feel a little dizzy about this after a while. This, coupled with the somewhat modern language did detract a little. But on the whole, I'd say that \\"Canceled Courtship\\" was a good 3 1/2 star read.	2003-03-29
1178876:US	52830980	R38KA1JAJA5I95	0060001453	686738756	Love With the Proper Husband	Books	3	3	5	N	N	good read in spite of heroine's exasperating behaviour	Worried about the current trend amongst the younger (and single) ladies and gentlemen of the ton not to marry soon enough to please their respective mothers, the matriarchs of the ton have banded together to form THE LADIES' SOCIETY FOR THE BETTERMENT OF THE FUTURE OF BRITAIN -- the main objective being to marry of these stubborn children as soon as possible but to do so in so subtle and devious a manner that they will not realize just how skillfully they have been manipulated into marriage. The very first \\"victims?\\" Miss Gwendolyn Townsend (the younger daughter of profligate nobleman) and Marcus, the Earl of Pennington.<br />When her father died leaving her penniless, alone and without a home, Miss Gwendolyn Townsend fended for herself by taking off for America in order to become a governess. The decision proved to be a disastrous one as Gwendolyn seemed to possess neither the inclination nor temperament to be a truly successful governess. So that when (some years later) she receives a letter from her father's solicitor summoning her home, she eagerly complies, hoping but never really expecting the news awaiting her. For there is a small bequest for her as well as a marriage proposal -- apparently her father and the previous Earl of Pennington had agreed to a match between Gwendolyn and the earl's son and heir, Marcus. <br />But if Gwendolyn is stunned by the turn of events, her reaction is nothing compared to Marcus's who is told that unless he marries Gwendolyn before his thirtieth birthday (in a few months), he will loose all his fortune and estate. For a responsible landlord such as Marcus, such news is horrific. Especially so when he meets Gwendolyn and discovers that she has no intention of honouring the arrangement that their fathers' had wrought. A lifetime spent feeling unloved by her father because she was not the much awaited male heir, coupled with her sad experience as a governess has given Gwendolyn a complete distrust of men, and a reluctance to place herself under any male thumb. But then Gwendolyn discovers that her elder sister is dead and that she has three nieces to care for. (No big plot spoiler here, this info is readily available in the first chapter.) And that in order to secure their future, it would help if she was married. Now Gwendolyn has a dilemma on her hands. How to get Marcus to agree to marry her, after she had already rebuffed him, and to get him to agree to let her nieces live with them, when a casual remark he made has led her to believe that he doesn't hold girls in very high esteem?<br />\\"Love with the Proper Husband\\" is the very first Victoria Alexander novel that I've been able to read from beginning to end. On the whole, while I was not too enamoured with the heroine's behaviour, I'd still vote \\"Love with the Proper Husband\\" as a pleasant read. There were many things to like about this novel: some of the dialogue is really humourous and witty; the hero, Marcus, is quite a gem; and I loved the three nieces. Unfortunately, Gwendolyn, while I understood why she had so many hang-ups, and why she was so leery to trust Marcus, ultimately proved not to be a heroine worthy of the hero. Marcus is patient, understanding and very loving towards his prickly wife, who unfortunately, keeps refusing to trust him fully, and who keeps compounding her mistakes by making one bad decision after another. Yet, in spite of my disappointment in Gwendolyn, I did rather enjoy \\"Love with the Proper Husband\\" and would still rate it as a worthy read.	2003-03-28
1183382:US	52830980	R17WHIA0VZZEW3	0312301766	860151221	The Thorne Maze (Elizabeth I Mysteries, Book 5)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	a good read	Forget the improbability of Elizabeth I and William Cecil (Elizabeth's chief advisor) actually having the time and inclination to play detective, and surrender yourself to enjoying a historical mystery novel is packed with intrigue, suspense and wonderful historical detail, for \\"The Thorne Maze\\" is definitely not a treat to be missed!<br />It's the summer of 1564, and in order to escape the threat of the plague, Elizabeth has moved her court (which currently also includes Templar Sutton, a famed lawyer, and his half-Italian wife, Bettina; Mary Sidney, the Countess of Pembrooke and the queen's closest friend and Robert Dudley, a gentleman that Elizabeth is drawn to even if she doesn't totally trust him) to Hampton. Of course there a variety of entertainments to amuse and pass the time, but when Elizabeth uses the cover of a masque to slip out in order to meet Dudley, little does she expect to be attacked either. Fortunately, the arrival of Bettina Sutton on the scene stops the attacker from completing his attack. Elizabeth quickly summons her Privy Plot Council in order to ferret out the would-be murderer. But are they looking for a 'plain' murderer who had mistaken the queen for someone else, or are they in the middle of yet another treasonous plot? Before long, Elizabeth and investigators are in the middle of another perplexing mystery, and one that yields some unexpected suspects... <br />What made this novel so very enjoyable for me to read was the manner in which the authour managed to keep the level of suspense relatively high. The pacing was truly brilliant. There were enough red herring suspects together with some rather nifty plot twists -- enough anyway to keep to me engrossed. And, best of all, there was also enough historical and biographical detail to make the book interesting and fascinating. All in all, \\"The Thorne Maze\\" proved to be a truly worthwhile read. And although I'm not a Tudor fan and that I rather wished that Karen Harper had been a tad morecritical of Elizabeth I, I have to admit that \\"The Thorne Maze\\" was a truly good mystery novel and that the entire series is worth becoming addicted to.	2003-03-24
1184950:US	52830980	R1YGLNWL80TVB2	0553801589	854651635	The Tail of the Tip-Off: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	3	14	15	N	N	not bad but not vintage Mrs. Murphy either	It looks as if I'm in the minority here but I was not overly impressed with \\"The Tail of the Tip-Off.\\" This latest Mrs. Murphy mystery novel is not a terrible read, but it is not vintage Rita Mae Brown either. For me, this book lacked focus. The mystery was an interesting one with plenty of promise, with lots of really interesting character realizations, and the usual humourous antics of Mrs. Murphy, Tucker and Pewter (plus their assorted friends) -- but I still finished the book feeling fairly unsatisfied.<br />The town of Crozet, Virginia is currently in the grip of both winter and basketball mania. And while tempers are running a little high, no one expected murder to work its way into the latest University of Virginia's women's basketball game. But that's exactly what happens when building contractor H. H. Donaldson suddenly collapses and dies after a game, and an autopsy soon reveals that he was mysteriously poisoned during the game. Bored and restless, Mary Minor \\"Harry\\" Haristeen (post mistress of Crozet, amateur sleuth and owner of Mrs. Murphy, Tucker and Pewter) is eager to figure out the who, why and how of the murder. (Anything is better than trying to decide once and for all if she should allow her ex-husband, Fair, to work his way back into her life on a more intimate footing.) Was H. H. murdered because of some past project and because he crossed someone in business? Or was he murdered because of his extracurricular marital affairs? How did the murderer manage to poison him in the full view of everyone at the stadium? Was his murderer his long suffering wife, Anne? Or a spurned lover? Harry and her furry friends, Mrs. Murphy, Tucker and Pewter are determined to get to the bottom of this latest murder...<br />There were loads of things I liked about this novel -- like the descriptions of the Virginian countryside in all its glory; the conversations that the animals had with each other; the (hopefully) new characters that Ms Brown has added to the series; and the murder plot premise. But, there were also (for me at least) things that detracted -- like the fact the plot was not quite tight enough, and the pacing a little off, and the fact even to the very end, the motives and actions of some characters (like the H. H. & the murderer) were never really clearly explained/realised. And there was the fact that the authour doesn't really deal with the fact that the second murder victim might have been saved. Oh, Tucker feels the guilt and the remorse, but the humans never really talk about this. I found this very baffling, and a little disconcerting.<br />All in all, while \\"The Tale of the Tip-Off\\" was not a bad read, it was not one of the better Mrs. Murphy mystery novels either (at least no where near \\"Rest in Pieces\\" & \\"Wish You Were Here\\"), and as a fan, I was a tad disappointed with this book.	2003-03-22
1186965:US	52830980	R3VUR4C4GY8RER	0373835485	46722381	The Grand Sophy	Books	5	17	18	N	N	if only there were more novels like this out there...	The very first romance novel I ever read (and I'm not including Jane Austen in this category) was &quot;Black Sheep&quot; by Georgette Heyer. I enjoyed the book so much that I immediately began haunting used book stores, hunting for as many of her novels as I could get at a time. That was more than two decades ago, and Georgette Heyer has remained a firm favourite ever since (in spite of her rather dated opinions about the merchant middle class, etc). &quot;The Grand Sophy&quot; ranks up there with other of my all time favourite Heyer novels (the ones that I rate about 10 stars) like &quot;Sylvester,&quot; &quot;Sprig Muslin,&quot; &quot;The Foundling&quot; &amp; &quot;These Old Shades,&quot; -- they're all excellent reads that every Regency-era romance novel addict should read at least once! <br />Other reviewers have done excellent jobs in giving plot synopsis, so I'll leave off doing the same except to note that the novel deals with the humourous and outrageous efforts of a visiting cousin, Sophy Stanton-Lacy, to sort out the myriad of problems that all those around her have (mainly her Rivenhall cousins like Herbert and Cecilia) become entangled in. What makes this novel 'work' is not only the clever plotting and the numerous escapades that Heyer has Sophy pull, but also the brilliant manner in which Heyer draws her characters. In Sophy Stanton-Lacy, for example, Heyer has created a young heroine who while incredibly managing, bossy, independent and very determined, and yet who is so utterly charming that you cannot help but root for her to come out on top -- this in spite of the fact that your sympathies may lie elsewhere. And I did have sympathies elsewhere! The first time I read the book, I felt quite sympathetic towards stuffy cousin Charles. Here was a young man, the only sensible person in a rather flighty family, who had had to contend with some crisis or another for goodness knows how long, all he gets for his efforts is abuse from his family! Yes, he isstuffy and easily angered, but his family was enough to give even me the megrims (and all I was doing was reading about them!)<br />&quot;The Grand Sophy&quot; is a riot of a read. Heyer sketches Sophy's escapades in such a humourous and entertaining manner that we cannot help but be charmed. Cleverly plotted, possessing elegant prose and characters that are just so alive and real &quot;The Grand Sophy&quot; proved to be the kind of book I wish I could find and read everyday.	2003-03-20
1187515:US	52830980	R14P8WT4OPALNS	0821773763	768313207	A Scandalous Marriage (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	a brilliant end to a charming trilogy	When the rakish Lord Claredon is found in Miss Victoria Mallory's bedroom (he had made his way into the room thinking that it was her cousin's), they are forced to marry in order to avert a scandal. It result is not a happy one. Victoria had made up her mind to marry the gentle and romantic Thomas Stice, and angry and bitter about her thwarted dreams has been taking her resentment out on her new husband. The situation is hardly any better for Clarendon either. Although something of a rake, Claredon had always believed that he would one day marry the lady of his dreams and lead a happy and contented life as a faithful and worthy husband. But while he is not at all happy about being forced into marriage, neither can he deny that the fiery and strong-minded Victoria does fascinate him quite a lot. But how to get his prickly and angry wife to lower her guard and give their marriage a chance? Help, unexpectedly comes from two different fronts. First, Victoria's old parish priest, Vicar Humbly, comes for a visit, and gently (and subtly) begins to counsel the couple; and secondly, the physical threat from a masked villain pushes Victoria and Claredon to reexamine their relationship, and come to some rather startling conclusions...<br />This is the third and final installment in the Marriage trilogy, and really fits right in with the other two novels in the series. Like \\"A Proper Marriage\\" & \\"A Convenient Marriage,\\" \\"A Scandalous Marriage\\" is a thoughtful novel that focuses on an unhappy marriage, but, thanks largely to the authour's light touch, the book is not heavy going at all. Debbie Raleigh does a first rate job of fleshing out the characters of both principal  characters and of showing us both Victoria's and Claredon's anger and frustration about the state they find themselves in. I liked that she had Claredon realize first that theirs was a marriage that was meant to be, and that if Victoria were to give things a chance, that they might actually achieve the happiness and contentment that each was looking for. Also nicely done was how the authour paced things so that Victoria's change of heart towards Claredon didn't feel forced or hurried. \\"A Scandalous Marriage\\" tied the trilogy up nicely, and lived up to the expectations raised in the first two. Definitely a novel worth the read.	2003-03-20
1192470:US	52830980	R2LUF774BHP5RQ	0451208269	360398732	A Foreign Affair (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	bit of a slow read but nice	The Congress of Vienna is in full swing as diplomats, politicians and heads of state flock to the city in order to reestablish order after years of upheaval and war. Of course social butterflies have also swooped down to enjoy the dizzy round of balls and entertainments that are bound to ensue once dusk has fallen. But the city is also humming with a different sort of energy, that of political intrigues and secret machinations...<br />Tired of the dreary isolation that the war had forced upon her, the beautiful Princess von Hohenbachen has decided to sample the giddy pleasures that Vienna has, currently, to offer. And she has insisted that her elder daughter by her first marriage, the quiet and serious Miss Helena Deveraux, accompany her. No mother and daughter pair could be more unlike -- for while the princess enjoys flirting and flitting from one social function to the other, her daughter, Helena, prefers political discussions, reading and riding. But all that changes when Major Brett Stanford catches both the eyes of both the princess and her daughter...<br />While Major Brett Stanford has been given a diplomatic assignment to assist Lord Castlereagh, his main brief (given to him by Wellington) is to keep an eye on the ladies -- like the Princess Bagration, the Duchess of Sagan and the Countess Edmond de Talleyrand-Perigord -- social hostesses of power and with an eye for political intrigue. A handsome and dashing lady's man like Brett Stanford would be the ideal candidate for what Wellington has in mind. And when Brett first meets the beautiful Princess von Hohenbachen and realises that the lady has a delicious flirtation in mind, he decides that he has been given the ideal opportunity to mix some pleasure with business. That is until he meets the princess's enigmatic daughter, who bewilders and intrigues the young soldier. Suddenly the urbane and sophisticated lady's man finds himself involved with two ladies from the same family! How to extricate himself fromsuch an embarrassing situation? And how to indicate to one lady that he wishes to pursue a relationship with her without angering and alienating the feelings of the other? <br />For me, &quot;A Foreign Affair&quot; suffered from poor pacing. Evelyn Richardson did a fantastic job of developing the relationship and attraction that was growing between Brett and Helena, and she does a rather good job of showing why these two are a perfect match as well. Where things feel apart for me was when the authour suddenly remembered that there was supposed to be a spy-intrigue plot too, and when Brett began to wonder if Helena and her mother were actually very clever and devious spies. Up until that point, even though the plot was a very basic one that was moving at a somewhat sedate pace, the authour's natural storytelling skills and her brilliantly sketched in historical and descriptive tidbits, made this book rather good reading. I really didn't think that the story needed a boost from the spy/intirgue subplot and felt that it was a mild distraction for no good reason. Fortunately, it only went on for about a chapter or two, but it did spoil the smooth flow of the story for me.<br />On the whole, however, &quot;A Foreign Affair&quot; was a rather nice story about a serious minded wallflower and the dashing major who captures her heart.	2003-03-15
1194484:US	52830980	R3KPJJ7LV4C1ZH	045120803X	380190316	Pursuing Priscilla (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	a 2 1/2 star read	Lord Latimer has spent a great many years trying to live down his family's scandalous behaviour by being as circumspect as possible. And up until recently, he has had reason to believe that he had been fairly successful. But when he asks for the hand in marriage of Miss Anne Bolsolver (the Season's latest diamond), her father roundly informs him that because of his ramshackle family he is not suitable marriage material for the fair Anne. Latimer is, of course, angry beyond words; and swiftly decides to marry the first respectable young lady who will have him (and whom he can tolerate) as soon as possible. That would show the Bolsolvers and all those that dared to think that he was beneath their touch! And when Lord Latimer meets his neighbour (Miss Mercy Herbert)'s niece and goddaughter, Miss Priscilla Herbert (a vicar's daughter from the country), he' sure that he has met his future wife. But how to woo and court a young lady at the height of the London Season, without her ever discovering just how disreputable his family connections really are?<br />Miss Priscilla Herbert is quite gratified that her aunt and godmother has offered to give her a London Season. Perhaps she will actually meet and fall in love with some dashing and respectable gentleman who would return her regard and offer her marriage? And when she meets her aunt's dashing neighbour, Lord Latimer, Priscilla quickly realises that Latimer is the epitome of all her dreams and desires. But then she discovers to her horror that all he is looking for in a wife is respectability -- not love, and she's not sure what to do. Should she give up Lord Latimer as a lost cause? Or give up all her dreams of making a love match? Or perhaps for a strong-minded and determined young lady there lies a third option?<br />&quot;Pursuing Priscilla&quot; is the fourth book in a slightly interconnected series that includes &quot;Lord Huntingdon's Legacy,&quot; &quot;The Ivory Dragon&quot; &amp; &quot;Lord Nick's Folly.&quot;And of the four, it is actually the weakest. Very little really happens: Priscilla parades in one gorgeous dress after another and tries to figure out what Lord Latimer is thinking, feeling and why he behaves the way he does. About two-thirds through the novel, she discovers that Latimer has had very little to do with many members of his family; but instead of asking him about why he has decided to cut himself off from so many people, she decides to meet them on her own and to decide for herself if Latimer's stance has any merit. (Mind, she hasn't yet asked him to explain his side of things.) Then, she decides to 'fix' Latimer's relationship with his family and to more or less force him to accept them without even consulting him first. True, Latimer's family turns out not to be as bad as he had decided they were, but I did find myself feeling quite sorry for Latimer because of Priscilla's casual dismissal of his feelings and her supreme belief that she knew best. <br />The other issue I had with &quot;Pursuing Priscilla&quot; was the rather hurried ending. After almost an entire book in which Latimer and Priscilla somehow managed to avoid any conflicts, in spite of the potential for some really good blowups, they finally fallout about 6 pages from the ending -- but everything is miraculously resolved with a happily ever-after ending on the second last page! The whole thing felt rushed and left me feeling fairly unsatisfied, esp since the real issue between them, namely her tendency to try and force him to behave as she wants him to, is never really addressed! <br />All in all, I'd say that if you like romance novels that are full of scrumptious fashion detail, than this fairly straightforward book, with it's uncomplicated heroine should satisfy. I, however, was looking for something a little more weighty. A good 2 1/2 star read.	2003-03-14
1196438:US	52830980	RDUBLOC0ZFYMY	0892966777	486661480	Death of a Village (Hamish Macbeth Mysteries, No. 19)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	an easy and enjoyable read.	If you're looking for a quick but good and light mystery novel to indulge in, this latest Hamish Macbeth installment, \\"Death of a Village,\\" just might do.<br />Hamish is again being threatened with promotion and a move away from Lochdubh. Of course our canny policeman isn't having any of this. Of course persuading his superiors to leave him where he is at his current rank is going to take some very quick and devious thinking. But can he pull it off? For in between trying to ensure that he is not transferred from Lochdubh, Hamish also gets entangled with a number of perplexing cases that deal with everything from a suspected domestic abuse to murder at a retirement home. And there is the mystery of the atmosphere at Stoyre, a fishing village on Hamish's patch. Even for the normally unfriendly and dour Highland villagers, the closed and cagey behaviour of the people of Stoyre has Hamish suspecting that something untoward is up. But what? No matter what, Hamish is determined to get to the bottom of what's going on at Stoyre...<br />Not every Hamish MacBeth mystery novel makes for a completely enjoyable and worthwhile read. But I thought that \\"Death of a Village\\" was a particularly good installment in the series. M. C. Beaton's dry humour and gentle irony was evident, and was what made this book so very very readable and fun. Filled with quirky and eccentric characters that are not always likeable, beautiful and atmospheric descriptions of the Highlands and more than a few humourous episodes, this light, fast paced mystery novel was just what I needed to help me unwind at the day's end.	2003-03-12
1202605:US	52830980	R1SAF5BPWWXXO7	0066212901	53355540	The Samurai's Daughter	Books	5	3	3	N	N	a wonderful reading experince	On the whole, Rei Shimura should be walking on air right now. Rei and her the love of her life, lawyer Hugh Glendinning, have finally worked past all their issues and differences, and it looks as if their relationship is (finally) progressing along the right lines (Hugh's even been given a posting by his firm to work in Japan for a while). True, Rei's father seems a little less overjoyed by all this. Especially when it comes to light that Hugh has become involved in a class action suit on behalf of those who had been forced into slave labour for Japanese companies during World War II. Rei herself is torn between wanting to see justice done and being terribly afraid at what secret wounds would be reopened if this case ever came to trial. Rei is also desperately afraid that Hugh may be in over his head, a feeling that grows once she meets the other lawyers involved in the case. And when one of Hugh's clients is murdered and another war victim is savagely beaten, Rei realises that she will have to do some hard investigating of her own in order to discover who is trying to keep the survivors silent as well as protect Hugh's interests...<br />The Rei Shimura mysteries have always been a favourite of mine. They're clever, absorbing and really well done. I especially enjoy the little bits of information that Sujata Massey peppers the book with on the Japanese culture, manners and history. And after sighing with relief at the end of the previous Rei Shimura installment (\\"The Bride's Kimono\\") where Rei and Hugh finally reunited, I was glad that things didn't fall apart for them in this installment. Though I am a little saddened to discover that Rei and Hugh will be living in the US for a while. One of the joys about this series is that it is set in Japan. Sujata Massey has to send Rei and Hugh back to Japan soon! But to get back to \\"The Samurai's Daughter,\\" I found it to be a truly engrossing and intriguing read. I read it in one go -- it was so very, very readable. And while some aspects were easy to guess, other aspects of the mystery kept me guessing for quite a while. Poignant, suspenseful and humourous in turns, \\"The Samurai's Daughter\\" is a read not to be missed.	2003-03-07
1202841:US	52830980	R1K96T3AB2WHVZ	0060092653	963454545	Scandalous Again: Switching Places #1 (Switching Places Series)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	a good read in spite of some &quot;niggles&quot;	Thank goodness that the entire Governess series is over at last. I was never really a big fan of that series, and since I rather enjoyed Christina Dodd's earlier works, I was rather looking forward to her writing something along the lines of &quot;That Scandalous Evening&quot; &amp; &quot;A Well Pleasured Lady.&quot; With &quot;Scandalous Again,&quot; Christina Dodd proves that she is indeed a capable and creative storyteller. And truth to tell, in spite of the fact that the book was peppered with a great many 20th century American phrases (something that usually annoys me), I rather enjoyed &quot;Scandalous Again.&quot; Ms Dodd does a wonderful job of bringing to life the attraction, the passion and clash of wills that exists between the future Duchess of Magnus, Madeline de Lacy and the gentleman Madeline's desperately in love with (even if she doesn't trust him fully) Gabriel Ansell, the Earl of Campion. How the authour brings these two forces of nature together (at a gambler's house party no less), makes use of the whole masquerading gambit in order to put Madeline at a slight disadvantage, and interweaves the various subplots that deal with the relationship between Madeline and Gabriel, the mysterious Mr. Rumbelow and the young Lady Thomasin Charlford who is being practically forced to consider Rumbelow as a suitor, was really nicely done. And for almost two thirds of the book I was really enjoying myself until the last six chapters of the book. Without giving anything away, I couldn't help but think that there might have been a better way for Ms Dodd to tie up the subplots and deal with the whole trust issue between Madeline and Gabriel. Perhaps I'm in the minority here, but it was a real turn off -- even though, apparently Gabriel did have a plan and Madeline had guessed part of what was going on, I don't think I really did get over what Gabriel did to Madeline. <br />Those two issues aside however, I found &quot;Scandalous Again&quot; to be a worthwhile andengaging read.	2003-03-07
1203079:US	52830980	R279EUAT7375E2	0821774212	207526336	Just In Time (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	an engaging read	I must confess that I'm a real fan of Judith A. Lansdowne's, so that my feelings about her novels will always be somewhat biased. What I particularly like about her novels is that she doesn't really write about the usual kind of heroes and heroines. Her heroes are not always incredibly handsome or rakish, and her heroines not always beautiful and feisty. And while it is true that sometimes she does tend to have so many subplots going that it's not always really easy to keep track of what's going on, I'll also confess that once having sorted out all the different plot-lines, I've usually enjoyed her novels immensely. For those readers however who've found the multiple subplots and romances to be a bit of a pain, news that \\"Just In Time\\" actually deals with only one romance and possesses a much tighter storyline should be welcome. Everyone should note however that the romance here does focus on a much older 40-something couple -- the widowed Duchess of Berinwick and the new vicar of St. Milburga's of the Wood, the Reverend Richard Dempsey.<br />The Reverend Richard Dempsey has arrived at his new parish only to discover that the Duke of Berinwick who had offered him the living is now dead, and the new Duke of Berinwick has no idea as to why his dead father had chosen Dempsey in particular for the position. (There's a bit of a mystery there and a reason why Dempsey, more a scholar than a priest, was chosen for this particular living.) Adding to the awkwardness of the situation is the fact that the parish seems to be haunted by the ghost of Owain Glyndwr (the Welsh royal prince who fought for freedom from the English in the late 1500s), and the fact that there may be some question as to how the late duke may have met with his death. And then Dempsey discovers that the widowed Duchess of Berinwick just happens to be the very person he fell in love with many years ago, and with whom he still is in love! Now Dempsey has his hands full with trying to figure out what is goingon at St. Milburga at the Wood, as well as try to keep his ardent feelings for the obviously grieving widow in check!<br />Once I got past the slightly confusing (at least to me) opening chapter, \\"Just In Time\\" proved to be quite the read. I thought that it was truly refreshing that Judith Lansdowne had written a romance novel that featured a much older couple -- given that the norm is to feature either teenagers or else twenty-somethings. The entire subplot that dealt with how the duchess, once a pampered and somewhat spoilt beauty, but who now strove to become something more with the help of the new vicar, was really nicely done. Also nicely done was how the authour fleshed out the character of the somewhat dour and cantankerous young Duke of Berinwick (some readers may remember him from a previous Lansdowne novel, \\"Shall We Dance\\") -- it looks as if there may actually be a book in the offing featuring the duke, and I'm really looking forward to it! <br />All in all \\"Just In Time\\" proved to be a rather satisfying read, although I must admit that the mystery subplot in this case was almost window dressing at times. However, I did think that this was not too important a niggle since the novel was primarily about the romance that develops between the Duchess and the vicar, and about the Duchess's strained relationship with her son. And that's what made \\"Just In Time\\" a truly memorable read -- the fantastic manner in which Ms Lansdowne developed those two storylines, as well as certain characters, such as the duke and his younger sister, Hannah. A book well worth the purchase price.	2003-03-07
1209352:US	52830980	R3FLLVZZEC3N9Y	0446610852	581545043	The Kissing Game	Books	2	10	11	N	N	an entertaining 2 1/2 star read	I think that you have to be in the right frame of mind to enjoy \\"The Kissing Game\\" so that you can overlook the heroine's (Lady Allegra) tendency to talk nonstop, actually enjoy the pranks that her father, Oxie, the Earl of Sunderland plays, and overlook certain plot niggles -- like fairly modern language and Lady Allegra's tendency to behave as if she were living in the 21st century. Otherwise, I'm fairly certain that most readers would find \\"The Kissing Game\\" be a fairly entertaining read.<br />Lady Allegra Nesbitt is fit to be tied! Her practical joker of a father has decided to take the family to London (along with her pill of a cousin, Elizabeth) so that Lady Allegra can make her bows and catch herself a husband. And Lady Allegra is not happy at all. She wants to return to the country post haste. No, wait: she wants to have fun and adventure after adventure -- not marry a stuffy husband who will no doubt turn up his nose at her father's odd ways and her mother's shy country manners. (Also, she fairly certain that the London ton will turn their backs on the Nesbitts and she'd like to spare her mother that humiliation.) Except that the ton doesn't exactly turn their backs on the Nesbitts, esp after their mysterious and enigmatic neighbour, Armand Gauthier (who has fallen for Lady Allegra's good looks and lively ways) decides to sponsor Lady Allegra into Society. Will the Nesbitt girls actually 'take' because of Gauthier's sponsorship? Will the eligible bachelors of the ton line up to press for Lady Allegra's hand in marriage? Not if Lady Allegra can help it! And she comes up with a plan: she will get Gauthier to agree to a pretend courtship so that she can keep her parents happy for a while and extricate herself from the relationship with ease at the Season's end. But all good plans usually have some hiccup or the other, and Lady Allegra's seems to be that she suddenly finds herself being perilously attracted to the mysterious and secretive Gauthier. What shouldshe do? Stick to her original plan or see if she can actually nab this maddening gentleman for herself?<br />As I noted, you really have to be in the right frame of mind to totally surrender yourself to enjoying and accepting what occur and unfolds in this novel. I obviously was not. I, kept wanting to have a 'real' conversation with Lady Allegra where I'd get her to explain how she expected to find a gentleman she'd fall passionately in love with, who would allow her to have adventures, and who wouldn't turn up his nose at her parents, deep in the countryside? I also wanted to know why someone who deplored but accepted her father's love of playing tricks on everyone (even his long-suffering wife) at the beginning of the book would feel the need to do likewise a few chapters later? And why she was always bemoaning her cousin's tendency to talk all the time when she obviously suffered from the same trait?<br />And then there was Lady Allegra's incredibly 21st century bahaviour. Why is it that so few people see that there is a difference between spirited 19th century manners and a very feisty 21st century attitude? I don't think I'm being unreasonably difficult here. I just want the HISTORICAL romance novel I'm reading to have a little more historical accuracy to it than clothing. And then there was the epilogue. Without giving too much away I will say that I was rather turned off by the Earl of Sunderland's decision to emigrate to New Orleans. The whole notion of being a responsible landlord and actually using his seat at the House of Lords to do some good never really occurs to him. There's a whole lot more to having a title than just attending balls and using your status to getting things your way. Unfortunately, the earl didn't seem to understand this. (Yes, I know that this is a romance novel and that's supposed to be part fantasy and that I shouldn't find fault with EVERYTHING under the sun) On the plus side, however, the novel did unfold smoothly and was a fairly entertaining read. My opinion: enjoy this novel for it's entertainment value; but if you're looking for something with a little substance to it, try something else.	2003-03-02
1212084:US	52830980	R337IBNCLIQORP	0758201508	206177949	Lemon Meringue Pie Murder (Hannah Swensen Mysteries)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	entertaining and delightful	It's hot and muggy right now in Lake Eden, Minnesota; but even though the weather is less than ideal, things have just turned up a notch for Hannah Swenson, owner of THE COOKIE JAR, when she finds herself, once again enmeshed in a murder investigation, but this time at her mother's behest!<br />Norman Rhodes, one of the two men that Hannah casually dates, has just bought Rhonda Scharf's great-aunt's house with plans to tear it down and in order to build the dream house that he and Hannah had designed together for a home design competition (they had won first prize at the competition with that design) in its stead. And while Hannah is thrown that he had been planning such a move with nary a word to her and no hints that he wanted to move their relationship to the next level, she cannot help but he thrilled for him. Especially when as a peace offering to both their matchmaking mothers, Norman gives the mothers first dibs at all the antiques left in the house before he has it demolished. Wouldn't you know that along with some valueable pieces of china, Hannah's mother would also discover a body in the basement. And not just any body but that of Rhonda Scharf's herself -- the town's biggest gossip and flirt. And in a turn around from her usual stance, Hannah's mother is now insisting that Hannah investigate and discover who murdered Rhonda and why! The clues are practically scarce, and include two potions of osso buco, an empty Chianti bottle and one of Hannah's own barely eaten lemon meringue pies. Not much to go on but seemingly indicative that Rhonda may have had company for her last meal. Was Rhonda murdered because she had flirted with the wrong man, or because she was privy to some bit of gossip? In between waking up and dawn in order to open her incredibly popular dessert store, inventing new and scrumptious desserts and juggling not one but two beaux (Norman and Mike, the handsome policeman), Hannah is determined to come up with the answer...<br />While the \\"Lemon Meringue Pie Murder\\" proved to be an incredibly fun read, I have to admit that the mystery subplot did take a while to unwind. Hannah spent a lot of time trying to come up with new recipes, juggling her beaux and dishing out advice to her two sisters. But all this, far from detracting, actually did add to the charm of the book. The characters were all well developed and the mystery at hand was a perplexing one that intrigued no end. And once the pace picked up, about half way through the book, the \\"Lemon Meringue Pie Murder\\" turned out to be quite the read. Now, if only the authour would allow Hannah to decide which man she wants (I'm rooting for Norman), the series would be a near perfect one for me!	2003-02-28
1213962:US	52830980	R20G98RUKLPIXM	0060502177	152570605	To Wed a Stranger (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	a satisfying and terrific read	I've been dying to read Lady Annabelle Wylde's story ever since I read \\"The Chance.\\" Somehow, even though Lady Annabelle was an incredibly spoilt flirt in that story and very obviously the character we were all supposed to dislike and despise, she still managed to capture all my attention and my sympathy. So that I was quite ecstatic to realise that \\"To Wed A Stranger\\" featured Lady Annabelle as a heroine. Was it worth the wait? I, definitely thought so.<br />After having literally thrown herself at three different men over the past few London Seasons only to have them marry elsewhere, Lady Annabelle Wylde has become the focal point of some rather unpleasant gossip. So that when her father arranges a marriage for her with Miles Croft, Viscount Pelham, she reluctantly agrees to the union. Having given up on the notion that she'll ever marry for love, what else can she do save agree to an arranged marriage?<br />Miles Croft needs a socially prominent and accepted wife to help him repair his family's reputation which his scoundrel of a stepfather had destroyed quite thoroughly before he died. And after having noticed how Lady Annabelle carried herself and dealt with the ton in spite of all the unkind gossip, he's sure that she is the one who can help him do this. Of course there is the added bonus that Lady Annabelle also happens to be incredibly beautiful as well. And Miles is sure that this arrangement will work very well. Until everything goes terribly wrong during their wedding journey, when Lady Annabelle falls dangerously ill and looses most of her spectacular looks. Now, Miles is irrevocably tied to stranger he barely knows and has little in common with. Can he still look to Lady Annabelle to help him with his family now that she has lost her looks? And can this marriage really work given that he's not in love with his wife and is no longer attracted to her?<br />Ever since she was old enough to attend social functions, Lady Annabelle has used her beauty to propherself up and to get what she wants. But now that she's no longer to spectacular Lady Annabelle, she's had to readjust her idea of who and what she is, and how Miles fits into everything. And the one thing she's come to realise is that there is a lot more to her than just her beauty. But can she get Miles to see this? For Lady Annabelle is beginning to realise that she may be falling in love with her kind and patient husband. But what of his feelings for her? Has Lady Annabelle lost her heart again to someone who doesn't return her feelings? <br />If you're looking for something that has nothing to do with the usual -- heroine at risk of her life subplot, or the spies and murderers that lurk in the bushes and drawing rooms subplot, or even the rakish hero pursuing/seducing innocent feisty heroine subplot -- then \\"To Wed A Stranger\\" would definitely do. It's a romance novel all about the relationship and love that develops and blossoms between two strangers who just happen to be married to each other. It's also about how a young woman who has always used her beauty to get her own way, now adjusts to the knowledge that she has, temporarily as least lost some of those looks, and resolves to be more than just a pretty face. This book is a really good example of Edith Layton's writing at her best, and gives one an inkling as to why so many consider her to be one of the best Regency-era romance novelists around. I liked how she developed the characters in this book, and how she allowed the novel to unfold in a smooth and even pace. True the ending was a bit rushed. I would have preferred a little bit more of a resolution to the subplot dealing with Miles' mother. And it would have been nice if Lady Annabelle's mother had been featured a lot more -- that would have made it a 10 star book for me! On the whole though, if you're looking for a good read that is a little more character driven and that is not the usual, \\"To Wed A Stranger\\" should definitely satisfy.	2003-02-26
1217797:US	52830980	RS9LHJ19VORV4	0060521899	603728430	Flesh of the God (Mystery of Ancient Egypt)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	a treat for historical mystery fans...	For those of us who always wondered what it was that Lieutenant Bak had done to anger Maatkare Hatshepsut so very, very much that she had him sent into virtual exile in Wawat (Lower Nubia),\\"Flesh of the God\\" answers that question in spades. It reads like the first installment in the Lieutenant Bak mystery series, and is (no surprise) a truly exciting and compelling read, dealing with murder, theft and corruption.<br />Once a proud officer and a trained warrior, Bak has been stripped of his rank and sent from Kemet (Egypt) to the Buhen fortress in Wawat (Lower Wawat) as punishment for having raided a house of pleasure much frequented by powerful Egyptian men. Now, instead of leading his charioteers into battle, Bak has been placed in charge of the Medjays (a police force of sorts) under Commandant Nakht. The situation at Buhen is a bit tense and complex. While many men and women from Kemet live within Buhen, it is still in the heart of Wawat, a land brutally conquered by the Egyptians many years ago. The Egyptains still do not fully trust the Nubians, esp given that the rebels still attack the caravans. But the really sticky point is that the Medjays are made up mainly of Nubians who have trained and grown up in Kemet, men with a foot in each camp and distrusted by both the Egyptians and the Nubians. It is up to Bak to make the people of Buhen realise that the Medjays are here to enforce the law and that they can be trusted. Not an easy task at all. But Bak's job becomes even more difficult when on his very first night on the job, the Commandant of Buhen (Nakht) is murdered and all the evidence seems to point to the Nakht's beautiful foreign wife, Azzia, as having committed the murder. In spite of all the circumstantial evidence however Bak is not so sure of Azzia's guilt. Pressured by the Chief Steward of Buhen to bring charges against Azzia, Bak is not sure what to do. Is Azzia guilty of murder? Or is Bak reacting to his attraction for her when he refuses to believe that she is guilty of Nakht's murder, by believing in the hunch that's telling him that there is more to all this than meets to eye? With only three days to unmask the real killer Bak must use all his intelligence and wits so that his lack of experience will not jeopardize an innocent lady's life...<br />\\"Flesh of the God\\" proved to be a fantastic read. And it answered all the questions that had nagged at me while I was reading the other mysteries in this series. At some point someone has to explain why books in a series are not always published in sequence. The storyline was a thrilling and exciting one, with quite a few twists and turns, as we follow Bak trying to solve the mystery at hand, bump into new ones and deal with his lack of experience and expertise. Character development was superb (esp that of Azzia and Imsiba, Bak's right hand man), and the plot unfolded smoothly and flawlessly. \\"Flesh of the God\\" was a real treat, and one that historical mystery fans (esp those who like mysteries with ancient Egypt as a setting) should not miss.	2003-02-23
1220124:US	52830980	R1R07JQ4GDUXNU	0821773941	772786942	Pamela's Second Season (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	a enjoyable and satisfying read	From the title I thought that this novel was going to be all about balls and gowns and lessons on how to get a husband. I couldn't have been more wrong. &quot;Pamela's Second Season&quot; is a sequel to &quot;A Country Courtship&quot; and while it does focus on Pamela Neville (the younger of Gerriant Neville's, the hero of &quot;A Country Courtship,&quot; two sisters) second attempt at a London Season, the novel also deals with a whole lot more.<br />High-spirited and plucky Pamela Neville believes herself to be in love with her neighbour and close family friend, Colin Varens. Unfortunately, Colin's in love with her more beautiful and much more ladylike elder sister, Rachel; and he still treats Pamela like a favourite younger sister instead of the eligible young lady she believes herself to be. Of course part of the problem may be that Pamela seems to possess hardly any &quot;refined&quot; ladylike qualities at all, and that she is quite the hoyden. And that's where her grandmother steps in. The Dowager Lady Haven agrees to tutor Pamela in the fine art of being an accomplished young lady of the ton if Pamela will agree to go to London with the rest of the family. The last thing that Pamela expected was that this London trip would cause her to question her ambition to bring Colin up to scratch. For she soon meets the handsome and compelling Earl of Strongwycke, Malcolm Bercombe, who makes her wonder about her feelings about Colin. Is she in love with Colin or isn't she? For surely she wouldn't be feeling the way she does about Malcolm if she's in love with Colin, would she? <br />What I liked most about this novel was that it dealt with other issues aside from the 'what/who does Pamela want' storyline. The novel also dealt with certain tensions in Gerriant's relationship with his fiancee, Jane Dresden (the hero &amp; heroine of &quot;A Country Courtship&quot;), and even dealt with the tentative reformation of Rachel's character and outlook (she was a rather unlikeable character in &quot;A Country Courtship&quot; and is to be the heroine in the upcoming novel &quot;Rachel's Change of Heart&quot;). And while I'm not much of an advocate of books that deal with certain ideas/storylines tentatively, and that hint that you should want to read the next book to see how things turn out, I'll freely admit that I'm eagerly looking forward to Rachel's story. <br />But to get back to &quot;Pamela's Second Season,&quot; I really liked the manner in which Donna Simpson handled the different subplots here -- from showing us how Pamela matures during the Season so that she's more than ready for a mature and adult relationship with the gentleman of her choice (also nicely done was the manner in which the authour portrayed Pamela's confused feelings for both Colin and Malcolm); to showing us how Gerraint finally realises that keeping his fiancee happy was really more important than having his own way; to showing us that there is a lot more to Rachel than meets the eye -- the authour does a wonderful job of melding all these storylines together so that you get an amalgamous whole about the trials and tribulations of one family during a London Season. So that for me, &quot;Pamela's Second Season&quot; was quite the prefect read.	2003-02-21
1220329:US	52830980	R2YY30MXFUVC2L	0451208013	692160552	A Loving Spirit (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	a fun 3 1/2 star read	I was in the mood for something lighthearted and charming, and fortunately I latched onto Amanda McCabe's \\"A Loving Spirit\\" -- it was just the ticket, and is, (I think) quite the best Regency-ear romance novel that she's written (note: I HAVEN'T read \\"A Golden Feather\\" yet) to date.<br />After having spent most of her life in Jamaica, Miss Cassandra (Cassie) Richards has finally returned to England now that her parents are dead. And although her aunt, Lady Willowby, has been all that's kind and welcoming, Cassie is still feels homesick for Jamaica. Fortunately, for her, her best friend (Jamaican born and a freed woman) Antoinette has agreed to make her home with her in England. Further, Lady Willowby has also arranged for them to spend a pleasant few weeks in Cornwall at the haunted estate of her good friend Lady Royce. <br />And Royce Castle certainly lives up to both Cassie and Antoinette's expectations: it's 500 years old and full of secret rooms and underground tunnels and friendly ghosts that Cassie and Antoinette quickly befriend. But Castle Royce is also home to lady Royce's son, the bookish and reserved Earl of Royce, Phillip. But while the two are quickly drawn to each other, each also realises that their temperaments may not suit: for Phillip believes firmly in order and logic -- there is no place for ghosts and frivolous fancies in his world -- while Cassie is completely open to the notion of ghosts and hauntings. Fortunately, there're a couple of ghosts with a notion to give things a helping hand...<br />\\"A Loving Spirit\\" proved to be a really fun read, and just the tonic I needed. Amanda McCabe does a good job of bringing Phillip out of his reserved self, and of showing us the sensitive and kindly gentleman that hides behind all that scholarly learning. She also did a rather good job of developing the romance between Cassie and Phillip. And while I did rather enjoy her portrayal of the villain(s) of the piece, I did think that these characters were notentirely necessary to the plot -- they came across as being a little superfluous. Similarly, I didn't think that the epilogue was all that necessary either -- unless the authour is hinting that there is another book in the works, which I wouldn't mind, esp if it featured Antoinette as a heroine!<br />All in all, \\"A Loving Spirit\\" proved to be a delightful read that should not be missed!	2003-02-21
1227258:US	52830980	R1607LSKNSLPJ5	0060505710	815745466	The Perfect Lover	Books	3	26	31	N	N	lots of sexual scenes + murder in the library...	\\"The Perfect Lover\\" turned out to be a rather interesting read -- once I had skimmed through all those pages that dealt with the ... antics of Simon and Portia, that is. Nothing against [explicit] scenes, but there is a limit to how many such scenes I want to plod through, and when these scenes didn't really advance the plot in any way (in my opinion) and actually begin to detract from my reading pleasure -- well then what's the point of having them? And a further word of warning: if you're a mystery buff, don't expect too much from the mystery subplot. While the murder of the flighty, malicious and naive young Kitty Glossup takes place in the middle of the book, discovering who the murderer is, esp since the murderer seems to have set his/her sights on Portia, still takes back-seat to the sexual situations between Portia and Simon.<br />On the whole, there weren't too many things that niggled about this novel. But one thing that really puzzled was how Simon and Portia were able to disappear for hours on end and no one remark on it. (And how it is that no one notices their crumpled clothing or mussed hair also beggared belief. Ms Laurens doesn't really go into this either. Perhaps that why Simon is the 'perfect lover' in that he's able to do all those things to Portia and for her to still remain in relatively neat and pristine condition?). Portia is even able to spend several nights in Simon's bed without any servant remarking on this, and any gossip making the rounds. If anyone's looking for the perfect country house to have a tryst, Glossup Hall is definitely the place to consider! (And am I the only one to think that Portia's and Simon's sneaking around to [make love] while a murderer is stalking her odd?<br />The other thing that niggled was Portia's incredibly modern attitude about having an illegitimate child. About halfway through the book, while she's pondering whether or not to surrender her virginity to Simon, she suddenly decides that the whole concept about an unmarried woman being a virgin was an outdated thing and that having a child out of wedlock would not be a problem because she came from a loving and supportive family that would not turn their backs on her. And anyway who cares what Society thinks? Not she! The fact that the unfortunate child would face taunts and some ostracism at school and later on in life never even crosses the silly twit's mind. To clarify: there's nothing wrong about Portia's attitude if this were a modern day romance novel, but in 1830? No matter how forward thinking, no sensitive woman would have wanted to burden any child with the stigma of illegitimacy.<br />On the whole, though, except for these two issues, I rather enjoyed \\"The Perfect Lover.\\" Stephanie Laurens did a rather good job of melding together the murder at a country house subplot with that of a sensual ... romp. I also liked the little character sketches she provided in the first chapter of all the guests at the house party, as well as how she managed to imbue the novel with an atmosphere of impending doom and disaster. Also nicely done was how Ms Laurens explored the whole issue of marriage, what it entails and means, by juxtaposing the unhappily married Kitty Glossup's antics with Portia's serious ruminations. I even enjoyed the pairing of Simon and Portia and rather wished that Ms Laurens had spent more time exploring their friendship and blossoming love instead of concentrating on bedroom gymnastics. I also rather wished that she had spent a little more time dwelling on how and why Kitty had ended the way she had, and in fleshing out a couple more characters, like Winifred Archer (Kitty's elder sister), (more esp) Drusilla Calvin, a mousy and frumpy spinster who seems to have little or no interest in any of the eligible men at the house party, and the Bow Street investigator, Stokes.<br />Given that I don't generally expect much from a Cynster novel, \\"The Perfect Lover\\" was a pleasant surprise. However, I do think that this is a novel that fans of the Cynsters will enjoy more fully, as I was definitely left with the feeling that while this was a pleasant enough read, the novel could have been so much more if certain aspects, characters and the murder subplot had been more developed.	2003-02-15
1235086:US	52830980	RSJT7BP0K0H83	0451208072	896317720	St. Raven	Books	4	5	6	N	N	quite a romantic	For starters, I didn't think that Jo Beverly's \\"St. Raven\\" was lackluster romance novel at all. I found it to be a compelling and lightly steamy book. True, there are some things that some readers may find exasperating, but if you're looking for a romance novel that is a little bit more than what you'd usually expect, and one where the sensual-rating is slightly higher than usual (note: no heavy x-rated scenes though), than this is just the novel that may satisfy.<br />Tristan Tregallows, the Duke of St. Raven, is masquerading as the highwayman Le Corbeau (for reasons of his own), when he comes across Cressida Mandeville and Lord Crofton. That Cressida is a respectable lady is fairly obvious -- why she is with the loathsome and villainous Lord Crofton, however, is another matter. And in a fit of chivalry, Tristan decides to rescue Cressida for Crofton's clutches. However, the lady is anything but grateful. It so happens that Crofton has won a fortune off Cressida's father at cards. Facing near penury, Cressida and Crofton have struck a deal: she will be Crofton's mistress for the duration of a few nights in exchange for some of the Indian artifacts that her father had wagered and lost. Unbeknownst to Crofton is that one of the artifacts hides a small fortune in jewels, and that Cressida actually has a plan to retrieve the treasure as well as hold on to her virginity. But all goes horribly wrong when Tristan decides to rescue her. Upon hearing her tale however, Tristan finds himself volunteering to help Cressida retrieve her treasure. But what starts out as a deed in knight-errantry becomes something more when Tristan finds himself becoming totally enamored with the incredibly ordinary but courageous Cressida Mandeville, while Cressida discovers that falling in love with a rakish duke is one thing but expecting that love to lead to something more is an exercise in folly. For who would expect a duke of the realm to fall in love with and marry an ordinary miss of no particular birth or distinction...<br />I'll admit that while I did find \\"St. Raven\\" to be a rather romantic read, Cressida as a heroine sometimes had me rubbing my brow with frustration. Her vacillations and her frequent verbal jabs at Tristan because she thought that he was an unrepentant rake got rather old fast. Also, given that he had never really caused to doubt his sincerity and honour, her ability to believe the worse and jump to conclusions made me long to shake some sense into her. But every good novel needs obstacles and I suppose Cressida's whole trust problem was as good as any! <br />What makes \\"St. Raven\\" unique is that Jo Beverly has decided to write a romance novel that actually focuses on how two people from different strata of society fall in love and the problems that they face. Cressida Mandeville is a young lady who exists on the fringes of Society, and is someone with little money and  no connections, while Tristan is a duke of the realm. She values the quiet life, while Tristan's duchess would always be Society's focal point. This is not a match made in heaven, nor would it be one that Society would actually sanction happily. And Jo Beverly focuses on the anguish that both Tristan and Cressida feel over their situation. It is the stuff of romance -- the love that they feel for each other, all the while knowing that it can come to nothing, and the eventual finding of happiness and the much longed for happily-ever-after ending. Along the way, one does become mildly irritated with Cressida (but not for long, thank goodness). But Tristan as a hero was a dream come true -- no neanthethal male here, but a take-charge, honest and rakishly charming man. (Also, for a rake, he didn't really behave all that rakishly at all -- there were actually instances where he left off a forceful seduction and left the decision on whether or not to give into temptation completely in Cressida's hands.)<br />Much of the novel flowed smoothly, though the whole finding-the-treasure subplot did meander a little. I would have been happy if the authour had spent the entire novel deciding how to get Tristan and Cressida together and how they would surmount all those odds without having them become even more entangled in the treasure subplot. But that's just me. My vote: this is a truly romantic novel, and just the thing for Valentine's Day.	2003-02-09
1236936:US	52830980	R2QE8OSHVY9EJ5	0821774921	265695178	Town Bronze (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	an amusing and enjoyable read	With \\"Town Bronze,\\" Kate Huntington (again) shows how adept she is in taking a much used and very basic storyline and turning it into a very amusing and charming Regency-era romance novel.<br />Ever since they were children, everyone has expected Christopher Warrender and Cassandra Davies to make a match of it. At least that has always been Lord Adderly, Christopher's grandfather's, plan. (Lord Adderly is also Cassandra's guardian.) And the very fact that both Christopher and Cassandra get on like oil and water, has not caused the old man to rethink his grand plan one bit over the years. Nor has he ever considered the notion that either Christopher or Cassandra may have dreams or desires of their own. So that even when Christopher was taken prisoner by the French while he was on the Grand Tour and was thought to be died in one of their prisons, the old man kept Cassandra (who had always cherished dreams of having a London Season and living in the city) firmly ensconced in the country. <br />Now, however, it looks as if news of Christopher's death may have been premature. For with Bonaparte's final defeat has come the realization that Christopher has spent the past 11 years being moved from one French jail to another. Lord Adderly is ecstatic: at last his dreams of marrying Christopher and Cassandra off to each other are coming true. But Cassandra is livid: now she will have to marry spotty, chubby and fatuous Christopher after all. What neither expected was that Christopher would put his foot down and refuse to marry Cassandra, and that he would take off for London in order to have some fun and acquire some \\"town bronze.\\" And the last thing Christopher expected was for Lord Adderly (with Cassandra in tow) to give chase after him. <br />It is still Lord Adderly's hope that the pair will make a match of it, even if it is fast becoming a dwindling one. For Christopher and Cassandra are soon happily sampling the many entertainments and diversions that the city has to offer and making new friends. It doesn't take Christopher long, however, to realise that he is actually very much in love with Cassandra. Unfortunately Cassandra has other ideas, and seems to have fallen for a handsome titled lord. What will Christopher do? Try to win Cassandra's heart? Or try to help her achieve exactly what (and who) she desires? <br />\\"Town Bronze\\" was a rather fun read. Christopher Warrender was my kind of romance hero -- intelligent, charming, funny and masculine without being the type of alpha-male that many sensible women would just long to hurl bricks at! Cassandra, on the other hand, took a little longer to warm to. But this was mainly because she did not come across very well in the first few chapters -- ranting (and sulking) at a man who had just come home from hell as if it was all his fault that she had to marry him! Fortunately, the authour rehabilitates Cassandra fairly early on in the novel so that I was able to settle into liking this romantic pair and rooting for their happily-ever-after ending. I liked the manner in which Kate Huntington depicted the relationship that Christopher and Cassandra have, as well how she portrayed the deepening of this friendship, and how it blossomed into love. And I liked all the different kinds of gambits/obstacles that she threw at the pair so that I actually began to question if and when Christopher and Cassandra would find their way to each other. Also nicely done were the characterisations of the \\"other\\" woman and gentleman in this story: Mrs. Caroline Bellingham, a beautiful and fast widow that Christopher finds himself attracted to, and Lord Whitby, the handsome gentleman-about-town that Cassandra falls for. All in all, even though much of this novel was quite formulaic, there was much to appreciate and enjoy in \\"Town Bronze.\\" A truly fun read.	2003-02-07
1238839:US	52830980	R2OXP391W8LA8U	0060198788	582619016	Close to Home: A Novel of Suspense (Inspector Banks Novels)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	absolutely brilliant...	Two incidents scarred a 14 year old Alan Banks in 1965: the first was a near assault at the hands a derelict (and possible pedophile/murderer), and the second was the disappearance of his good friend, Graham Marshall. Banks, has always feared that his failure to report the attempted assault may have resulted in Graham's disappearance and death. Now, when Banks reads in the newspapers some 40 odd years later, that Graham's remains have been found in a field, he immediately returns to his childhood home in Petersborough in order to offer whatever help the police officer currently in charge of Graham's case (the fetching DI Michelle Hart) is willing to accept, and to hopefully discover what happened to Graham and, finally, to close one of the more painful chapters of his life. And while a seasoned policeman like Alan Banks knows full well that all kinds of dark and painful secrets are likely to be uncovered and aired while a murder investigation is being conducted, not even he is fully prepared for the level of corruption that he and Michelle soon find themselves in the middle of...<br />This is, I think, the best British police procedural that I've read in the past 4 months at least. I liked the manner in which Peter Robinson juxtaposed the investigation into the long ago murder of Graham Marshall with the more current one of Luke Armitage (another teenage boy with secrets) so seamlessly. And I thought that the manner in which Robinson handled the various motifs -- Banks' memories of what was going on that fateful year, Banks' difficult realtionship with his working-class parents, the fact that parents (no matter how loving) actually have very little idea of what's going on in their children's lives, Annie Cabbot's initial handling of the Luke Armitage case, etc -- was really well done. I also liked the manner in which the authour drew things out, all the while slowly building on the level of suspense/tension (as each new plot development is revealed) so that you really had that on-the-edge-of-your-seat feeling. <br />\\"Close to Home\\" proved to be a totally engrossing mystery novel that was incredibly hard to put down -- the characters were well drawn and fully developed; the subplots were intriguing, full of rich detail, atmospheric and vivid imagery; and the narrative style was subtle and nicely nuanced. My vote: \\"Close to Home\\" is definitely one of the early contenders for best mystery novel of the year.	2003-02-06
1239222:US	52830980	R3LRCIQ66VT8X9	0821774190	366819482	Lord Logic And The Wedding Wish (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	a fun light read	Even though \\"Lord Logic and the Wedding Wish\\" actually possessed a very 'plain' storyline, with very few frills and fancies, it turned out to be so a very readable and enjoyable, that I just had to tout it as a really fun and worthwhile read. The plot was a very charming one and the characters were all very engaging and sympathetic.<br />Because of a series of innocent blunders and misapprehensions, the London ton is led to believe that Miss Artemis Rose is Orion Chase's, the Earl of Lindenshire, mistress. Now, in order to salvage his childhood playmate's reputation (and his own, for that matter), Orion and Artemis must pretend to engaged to be married. But while Orion has only a sham engagement in mind, Artemis (part gypsy on her mother's side, and who believes firmly in signs and reading tea leaves) believes that they are destined for each other. For Orion, who has spent the past few years cultivating his reputation so that he is now one of society's leaders as well as one its most eligible of bachelors, the very idea of even pretending to be engaged to an unspohisticated gypsy, who is unschooled in the ways of the ton, is an anathema. But what is a very scientifically minded and logical earl to do when confronted with a stubborn young lady who is sure that the 'signs' are signaling that they are meant for each other? Especially when Orion cannot deny the attraction and his feelings for Artemis? Fortunately Mrs. Ophelia Robertson (from \\"The Blue Devil\\" & \\"Miss Grantham's One True Sin\\") is at hand to give matters just the right push...<br />From the very moment I 'met' Orion and Artemis, I was hooked. Both were truly engaging and sympathetic characters -- even though Orion does behave in a slightly less than likable manner sometimes. Orion, whom some may remember from \\"Miss Grantham's One True Sin,\\" is someone who thinks of himself as a very rational and logical person; he has also managed to remodel himself in order to fit in with society's expectations. Having been badly scarred by love once already (\\"Miss Grantham's One True Sin\\") -- or so he thinks -- he has no intention of succumbing to the attraction he feels for Artemis, esp since he doesn't think that she would be the 'right' kind of wife for him anyway. Unfortunately, he vents these feelings of panic at being slowly coerced into doing something he has little desire to by being as mean and as rude as possible to Artemis (both publically and privately). That she never ever really told him off once qualified her for sainthood in my book. On the other hand, I had no trouble in appreciating Artemis Rose. True, her belief in signs and destiny was a little hard to take at times but her sunny disposition, coupled with her charming personality, put me firmly on her side. And I had no trouble rooting for her to prove Orion wrong so that she could realise her fondest wish. <br />While the plot was a rather basic one -- young lady who is finally able to get the gentleman concerned to see things her way -- Melynda Beth Skinner told her story is such a refreshingly unique and entertaining way that I finished the book in one go -- little realising that I had sat up till the early morning hours in order to do so! Both Orion and Artemis are unique characters and their story, a memorable one. All in all, if you're looking for a good light read where the plot doesn't stretch the bounds of probability too much, where the language is not too modern, and where the hero and heroine truly do capture one's fancy and concern, may I recommend \\"Lord Logic and the Wedding Wish\\" as a worthwhile read?	2003-02-05
1243588:US	52830980	R2FLXP2DMRJXOE	0425187144	417889802	Hanging by a Thread (Needlecraft Mystery)	Books	3	26	27	N	N	a good puzzler...	I'll admit that for the first few chapters &quot;Hanging By a Thread&quot; proved to be a bit of a frustrating read as it did take a while to unwind. But, by about a quarter way into the book, I suddenly found that I was quite firmly absorbed with the goings-on that was unfolding before my eyes, and that I really did begrudge any distractions that kept me from finishing the book. <br />For the past few years, Foster Johns has been living under a cloud. Everyone in the small town of Excelsior, Minnesota, believes that he murdered his mistress, Angela, and her husband, Paul, in a fit and jealousy and rage (even though the police have never really found any evidence to connect him to the murders). Now, however, he's pinned his hopes of finally being able to establish his innocence on Betsy Devonshire, owner of Crewel World (a needlecraft store owner) and an amateur sleuth. Betsy is intrigued by the mystery and Foster's plight; and because she cannot really see Foster as the cold-blooded murdering type, she agrees to look into the case for him. But Betsy soon finds this case proving to be quite perplexing as she tries to sort out alibis and motives and how these perfect murders were committed...<br />I rather thought this latest Betsy Devonshire mystery novel to be a rather good one (and at least quite a bit better than the last few). Although, truth to tell, it was more in the nature of a brain teaser than it was a mystery novel -- the clues are strewn all over the place (some even towards the end of the book), so that the challenge is to see if you can solve the mystery before Betsy does. I'll admit I couldn't. I was able to correctly deduce who had committed the murders and why, but not how these murders were accomplished. <br />&quot;Hanging By A Thread&quot; was a rather fun read. Some bits were unnecessary (like Goodwin's campier than usual behavior -- is it my imagination or is Goodwin becoming a bit of a caricature?); but if you like puzzles and the small town mystery feel, than &quot;Hanging By A Thread&quot; is just the book for you.	2003-02-02
1245358:US	52830980	R14O664B0HD74	0345428226	560505699	Hotspur	Books	3	13	15	N	N	enjoyable, but not quite what I was expecting...	Fortunately for me, I'd borrowed \\"Hotspur\\" from the library. The trouble was not that the book was poorly written or that it was terribly uninteresting and banal. The trouble was that I was expecting a mystery novel along the lines of Rita Mae Brown's \\"Wish You Were Here\\" & \\"Rest in Pieces;\\" the trouble was that the mystery plot kept getting sidelined by the ruminations of the animals (foxes, horses, owls, etc) and the politics of the Jefferson Hunt club. Another problem was that I couldn't for the life of me figure out how the title fitted into the novel. Indications seem to suggest that one of the characters had a Hotspur-like personality, except that I couldn't quite see it. But perhaps that fault lies with me.<br />\\"Hotspur\\" centers on the murder of Nola Bancroft. Nola, was the beautiful and capricious younger daughter of the well heeled Bancrofts, Edward and Tedi. And about twenty-one years ago, she disappeared. Since she was dating the sheriff's dashing son, Guy, and her parents openly disapproved of that relationship, everyone assumed when the couple suddenly disappeared that Nola and Guy had eloped. But as the years passed and nothing was heard of the pair, local gossip also included the speculation that Guy had murdered Nola in a fit of anger and left town in order to avoid arrest. The recent discovery of Nola's body now bolsters the latter theory. But \\"Sister\\" Jane Arnold, Master of the Jefferson Hunt Club doesn't believe that Guy murdered Nola, and she's determined to discover what really happened even if it means reopening old wounds and stirring things up -- even a murderer's ire...<br />While I rather enjoyed Brown's descriptions of the Virginian countryside, the ins and outs of what goes on in a hunt club, and her character-descriptions of both the animals and humans (and what makes certain individuals tick), I still felt that a lot could have been left out since \\"Hotspur\\" was supposed to be (primarily) a murder mystery novel. For example, Nola's bodyis discovered at the end of chapter 1, and yet it is not until somewhere around chapter 15 that Brown delves into the mystery subplot again. And since I had checked out the book on the strength that it was supposed to be a mystery novel, this really left me feeling a little frustrated.<br />\\"Hotspur\\" is not a bad read. If you enjoy books about small towns, with well developed characters, and bits about nature and animals and our (human) relationship with animals (and theirs with us), and don't really mind that the mystery subplot takes a long while to get underway, than you will probably not be disappointed with \\"Hotspur.\\" But be advised, Brown does take a while to get into the mystery of who murdered Nola and why.	2003-01-31
1248601:US	52830980	R3881894U32937	0060511508	264413309	The Further Observations of Lady Whistledown	Books	4	24	28	N	N	just the pick-me-up for a dreary day...	Just the thing for a gray, dull weekend: four delightful short stories, all interrelated via Lady Whistledown's column in the SOCIETY PAPERS, a few characters, and three events -- a night at the theatre, a skating party and a Valentine's Day Ball -- and all quite engaging and charming!<br />The anthology opens with Suzanne Enoch's &quot;One True Love.&quot; Maximilian, the Marquis of Halfurst, and Lady Anne Bishop have been betrothed to each other since infancy. But the pair have scarcely spent any time with each other at all, esp since Maximilian has spent the last few years ensconced in Yorkshire, taking care of his estate and fulfilling his responsibilities as landlord and chief magistrate. But when he reads Lady Whistledown's column and realises that Lady Anne is not behaving in a circumspect manner at all, he rushes up to London in order to confront his errant fiancee. What follows is a rousing tale in which both Maximilian and Anne must decide if they want to spend the rest of their lives together or if they should go their separate ways in spite of the attraction that they feel for each other...<br />With Karen Hawkins's offering (&quot;Two Hearts&quot;), you can almost hear that old standard playing in background: the one where Ella Fitzgerald sings about making two lovers of friends. When Sir Royce Pemberly (a hardened flirt and rogue) learns that his best friend (who is also 'almost-like-a-sister') Elizabeth Pritchard is seriously considering marriage, Sir Royce must reexamine the exact nature of his friendship with Elizabeth and decide once and for all exactly what kind of relationship he wants to have with her...<br />In Mia Ryans's offering, &quot;A Dozen Hearts,&quot; Lady Caroline Starling realises to her horror that she has fallen for the very man who is at the root of all her troubles -- her distant cousin, Terrance Grayson, who had inherited her father's title and estate and who had summarily evicted both her mother and her from the family home assoon as he had inherited everything! Can Lady Caroline overlook all the heartache that Terrance has caused her? And what of her mother's plans to marry her off to the rich but elderly Earl of Pellering?<br />The last thing that Miss Susannah Ballister expected, in Julia Quinn's short story &quot;Thirty-Six Valentines,&quot; was for the 'staid' and enigmatic Earl of Renminster to pay court to her after the very public rejection that she had suffered at his younger brother's (Clive Formsby-Mann) hands. And yet that is exactly what happens! But while, to Susannah's surprise, being courted by the earl is exactly what she craves, she cannot help but wonder if she can afford to trust another member of the Mann-Formsby family?<br />All four stories were charming and enjoyable light reads, and exactly the kind of thing to indulge in while on a 'plane, train, etc. Julia Quinn's short story, however, was my favourite and was (I thought) the best of the bunch. And while Mia Ryan's offering was good, I did think that it needed some elaboration and elucidation. The one I was least enamoured with was Suzanne Enoch's short story as Lady Anne rather exasperated me. For goodness sake, Yorkshire was hardly the moon for all her whinnings about the place and Max's occupation as a sheep farmer. (You'd have thought that he was a serial killer the way she kept on carping about his source of income!) Another niggle was the order in which the stories were presented could have been better. For example, some information presented in Karen Hawkins's short story gives away what will happen in Julia Quinn's offering. However, all the stories unfolded smoothly and were engagingly enough, even if the language was a tad modern in all four. But, while this was at times a little jarring, it did not detract too much. All in all, &quot;The Further Observations of Lady Whistledown&quot; was a fun read.	2003-01-29
1253859:US	52830980	R2CTN8W2DMFF8B	0316766844	640308649	Resurrection Men: An Inspector Rebus Novel	Books	5	37	38	N	N	a truly wonderful reading experience	In a moment of pure frustration, DI Rebus throws a mug of tea at his superior DCS Gill Templer. This action causes him to be removed from the Marber murder inquiry (Edward Marber was a successful Edinburgh art dealer who was brutally murdered outside his residence), and sent to Tulliallan Police College for counseling and a refresher's course on how to be a better police officer. There, he meets other officers who have all been sent up for the same reasons -- an inability to deal with authority and proper police procedure -- the Resurrection Men (or the Wild Men depending on who you're talking to) who have all been given this one last chance to pull up their socks and rescue what's left of their careers. <br />As part of their rehabilitation, the Resurrection Men have been given a cold case to investigate -- the murder of Eric Lomax, a vicious small time crook who was beaten to death sometime in 1995. The point of this exercise is to go over (again) the previous inquiry and to understand where that initial investigation had gone wrong, see if any new leads can be further developed, and to see if they can all work together as a team and actually get a result. Hindering this current investigation however are secrets that some of the Resurrection Men have pertaining to the original investigation -- Rebus included. Will these secrets come back to haunt these officers? Will the secrets actually affect the current investigation? More worrying for Rebus however is the sinking feeling that any time now someone will discover his particular secret, and that he will really have to face the music for having crossed the line that fateful day in 1995...<br />\\"The Resurrection Men\\" proved to be quite to read. Ian Rankin does a wonderful job of painting in Rebus's feeling of paranoia and loneliness as he tries to do his job as well as make sure that no one ever discovers what he did back then. Also nicely done was the manner in which Rankin seamlessly sews together the three subplots -- the subplot involving the Resurrection Men's reexamination of the Lomax murder; DS Siobhan Clark's investigation of the Marber murder; and a third subplot involving Rebus that I will not go into so as to enter into the realm of plot spoilers. And even though I expected that all these subplots would suddenly come together with a bang, waiting to see how Rankin would actually achieve this was still a treat. Some resolutions I expected but some still surprised me (in a good way, that is).<br />Well written, with strong character developments and a plot that unfolded smoothly and with nice tight pacing, \\"The Resurrection Men\\" was fun to read and should not be missed.	2003-01-25
1262057:US	52830980	R2GLBTKKGSES7R	0151008353	76080055	The Blind Man of Seville	Books	4	3	3	N	N	a compelling read although not always suspenseful	Although things unfold a little slowly and in a rather sedate manner in \\"The Blind Man of Seville\\" -- this, in spite of the fact that  the book is supposed to be a murder mystery that focuses on the attempts of the police to apprehend a clever, methodical but seemingly crazed murderer -- this latest Robert Wilson offering turned out to be a truly compelling read. Some books just make you smell, taste and 'see' the things that are being described: like the smell of marble and wood polish in old buildings, shadow and light in corridors, the music from cafes and the smell and taste of coffee ... and \\"The Blind Man of Seville turned out to be one of those books.<br />When Chief Inspector Javier Falcon of the Seville Homicide Dept. is called in to investigate the brutal murder of famed restaurateur Raul Jimenez, he is thrown by the horrific and savage manner in which the man was brutally murdered. And when a preliminary search of the scene of the crime reveals how meticulous and methodical the murderer was -- even to the extent of stalking and filming his subject/victim and carefully leaving evidence of his diligence for the police to find, Falcon realises that he is dealing with an intelligent and but deranged personality with an agenda of his/her own. But it is when the investigations begin to infringe on his own past and memories, and hints at a relationship between the Jimenez and his own dead artist father, that things begin to take a toll on his own personal mental health. For now Falcon must not only battle internal petty official politics (his second in command is after his job) but also dig into a past that might reveal even more horrors than has already come to light and that might also include some rather uncomfortable truths about his own family...<br />What makes this novel so very compelling is the manner in which Robert Wilson tells his tale. He draws things out but in such a manner that I was forced to read along eagerly, even though I was (at the same time) growing a little frustrated at the slow manner in which the novel was unfolding. And the sheer brilliance in which he was able to allow me to 'see' things unravel -- like the disorientation Falcon experiences as he tries to come to grips with what he remembers of his childhood, and what has been suppressed, and how all this is taking a toll on his work. I suppose what I really appreciated about \\"The Blind Man of Seville\\" was the tone and the artful storytelling. Mystery-wise, there have been better ones. The lack of concrete suspects and a tangible motive together with the not always there air of suspense and tension, were a little off putting, but I still found \\"The Blind Man of Seville\\" to be a very compelling and engrossing read.	2003-01-18
1265247:US	52830980	R34BYWD3R2B4XF	0451207726	59813245	Valentine's Change of Heart (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	quite Jane Eyre-ish, and as memorable...	I rather enjoyed &quot;Valentine's Change of Heart.&quot; True, it is a little more brooding in tone and has a little more than the usual quota of angst-filled moments, but if you're looking for something really quite different from the usual Signet fare, and you enjoy novels that celebrate the beauty of nature, than you might want to give &quot;Valentine's Change of Heart&quot; a go. Though I have to admit that if you haven't yet read &quot;Captain Cupid Calls the Shots,&quot; you may want to do so first -- it's not really essential, but it does help explain the dark and slightly despondent tone of this novel, and why certain characters are important to each other -- not everything is explained fully in &quot;Valentine's Change of Heart.&quot;<br />Having conquered his addiction to alcohol, Valentine Wharton now sets off to reclaim his daughter, Felicity, from Gatehouse, the boarding school to which he had sent her. Valentine is hoping to be able to build a relationship with this daughter he barely knows (Valentine discovered that he had fathered a child just before he set off for war in &quot;Captain Cupid Calls the Shots&quot;) by taking her to St. David's in Wales -- a place that he has very fond childhood memories of, and where he's rather hoping to be able to create new and happier ones with Felicity. Of course he also needs a governess for Felicity while they are in Wales, and it looks as if fortune may finally be smiling on Valentine when he is able to hire Felicity's favourite teacher to be her governess. <br />Miss Elaine Deering never thought that she would be grateful to secure a post with such a notorious employer as Valentine Wharton. But beggars, she discovers, cannot be choosers; and when an unscrupulous ex-employer causes her to loose her current teaching position at the Gatehouse, she finds an unlikely knight errant in Valentine Wharton. But while she is a little cautious and leery about deciding to throw in her lot with such a notorious rake (andalcoholic) as Valentine, she finds herself being totally disarmed by Valentine's attempts to win Felicity's trust and affections. But, she also finds to her dismay, that she's not all that immune to Valentine's charming ways either. Can she afford to trust a reformed alcoholic and rake not to take advantage of her heart and affections? (Add to that Elaine's belief that Valentine has never gotten over his first love, Penny Shelbourne). And then there is the whole issue of the disparity of their positions -- can a governess of no particular distinction hope for any kind of honourable relationship with a gentleman of wealth and connections?<br />Be forewarned: &quot;Valentine's Change of Heart&quot; is quite contemplative in nature. Both Valentine and Elaine spend a lot of time thinking about and going over past actions. So that if you prefer books with a lot less rumination and a lot more action, this may not be the ideal romance novel for you. I rather liked this book though. I had mixed feeling about &quot;Captain Cupid Calls the Shots&quot; -- Valentine's character (to me) seemed a little over the top in that book -- but really had very few reservations here. I enjoyed the slightly melancholy tone that the book seemed to be imbued with, the description of the towns (the castles, the towers, the moats, the streets) and the nature scenes, I liked that Valentine's attempts to connect with Felicity took time and patience and a lot of effort on his part, and I particularly enjoyed the pairing of Valentine with Elaine. (I liked that Elisabeth Fairchild allowed for the romance between these two to build slowly and believably.) If I had one disappointment with the book it was the rushed ending, and that it took the interference of another to bring these two together. But that is a minor quibble, and on the whole, I'm recommending this as a must read.	2003-01-16
1271214:US	52830980	R1SQK6GR6010IS	0060505621	263805357	Once a Dreamer	Books	3	3	4	N	N	3 1/2 starts: heroine's behaviour not always palatable	I started out Candice Hern's &quot;Once a Dreamer&quot; being firmly on the heroine's, Eleanor Tennant, side. But a little less than halfway through the book, I was ready for some other heroine to turn up and win the hero's, Simon Westover, heart! <br />Eleanor is a practical and sensible widow who is currently shepherding her flighty neice, Belinda, though this, her first Season. What Eleanor had rather hoped would happen was that Belinda would allow herself to be guided by Eleanor's wiser counsel when it came to the matter of choosing a husband and settling down.  Instead, Belinda has fallen in love with a profligate gambler and wants to marry him, and refuses to listen to reason. In fact Belinda has gone so far as to write to an agony aunt, the Busybody, at THE LADIES' FASHIONABLE CABINET, begging for advice on her plight. And while Eleanor is appalled at Belinda's indiscreet behaviour, she's even more furious when she discovers that the Busybody has advised Belinda to stand her ground and to follow the dictates of her heart. And so Eleanor sets out to discover who this busybody is and to demand that the demented twit put things right before disaster strikes. Imagine Eleanor's surprise then when she discovers that the Busybody is not some fatuous and romantic minded middle-aged woman but is actually a young gentleman with a a pair of striking blue eyes and a distracting set of dimples!<br />Simon Westover is a rather romantic minded young man who writes poetry (bad) and who believes in true love and a woman's right to marry where her heart is. Simon's father, however, is a very conservative politician who would be deeply embarrassed if word of his elder son's activities ever got out. So that when Eleanor marches into the Westover residence and demands that the Busybody/Simon put things right, Simon allows himself to be blackmailed into doing the &quot;right &quot; thing. However, when Eleanor and Simon return to Eleanor's residence it is to be greeted with the news that Belinda has eloped. Now, Eleanor and Simon must put their differences behind them in order to seek out the eloping pair and hopely save Belinda from a lifetime of pain and heartache. Will Eleanor and Simon find Belinda before it's too late? And will they be able to keep their differing beliefs and opinions from making an already difficult trip even more acrimonious? Or will opposites attract afterall? For Eleanor has to keep reminding herself that aside from a pair of striking blue eyes and a distracting set of dimples, Simon Westover is a rather useless and romantic fool, while Simon is beginning to find that Eleanor's fiery temper and flashing green eyes can be an intoxicating mix...<br />As I noted earlier, I started out the novel being totally on Eleanor's side. Unfortunately, Eleanor turned out to be quite the shrew, and took to constantly belittling and haranguing Simon, for quite a bit of the book. So that, while I totally understood both Eleanor's anger at Simon's reckless behaviour in giving advice and not really thinking about the consequences of his advice, as well as her reluctance to give him any quarter given what she had suffered in the past because of a betrayal that she herself had suffered, her rude and horrid behaviour was still a turn off. On the other hand, I really enjoyed Simon as a hero. What a wonderful change of pace -- a hero that believes in romance, who is bookish, who writes bad poetry, and who blushes when he's embarrassed. Simon was a joy to read, and I really wished that Eleanor had been portrayed in a more balanced manner.<br />Storywise, I liked &quot;Once a Dreamer&quot; a whole better than I did &quot;The Bride Sale.&quot; The plot unfolded smoothly and evenly; and the both Simon and Eleanor's characters were properly and sympathetically 'fleshed' out. Something else about &quot;Once a Dreamer&quot; that I really liked were the conversations that Simon and Eleanor shared while they were on the road chasing Belinda. Candice Hern did a truly wonderful job of stating both Simon's and Eleanor's differing points of view, without taking sides, as well as showing us how these conversations were instrumental in changing Eleanor's opinion about Simon. And if only Eleanor had held on to this new opinion about Simon, what a different novel this would have been! And how much more I would have enjoyed this book! My final comment is to note that while, on the whole, &quot;Once a Dreamer&quot; turned out to be a truly enjoyable and fun read, be fully aware that the heroine's behaviour and actions may be a turn off!	2003-01-11
1275569:US	52830980	RJD8J1E7ALR4X	0451207718	822638423	AN Inconvenient Heir (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	an immensely enjoyable read	I have always rather enjoyed Martha Kirkland's Regency romances even when I've taken issue with some plot points. Now, again, with \\"An Inconvenient Heir,\\" Ms Kirkland has penned (I believe) another winning Regency romance novel that most readers will find to be both enjoyable and rewarding.<br />Cordelia (Delia) Barrington is terrified. She has witnessed the murder of her friend, William Halcomb, and is terribly afraid that the murderer will now come after her and William's infant son, Robbie. And so, Delia flees to Em Regis, in Sussex, to seek refuge with Robbie's maternal gypsy great-grandmother. Although William was the heir to a small estate and baronetcy, his marriage had estranged him from his father, Sir Allistair Halcomb -- William's choice of bride was not quite blue-blooded enough. Now, however, Delia has no choice but to turn to Sir Allistair for help. And so she writes to him, informing him of his grandson existence, and begging him to come for Robbie. You see, Delia is afraid that William's cousin, Mitchell, who happens to be an officer in His Majesty's Army, and who would have ended up as Sir Allistair's heir if William had died before he fathered a son, may have been responsible for William's death, and who may now be out to put an end to Robbie's life. (Where Delia got this notion from and why, is never really discussed or gone into, and I'll freely admit, is the plot point I had problems with). What Delia doesn't expect is for Sir Allistair's lawyer to intercept her letter and for him to ask Mitchell to investigate Delia's claims.<br />For his part, Mitchell Halcomb (late of His Majesty's Army) is incensed that such a heartless jade as Delia is trying to extort money from a grieving old man by suggesting that William had been married and that he had an heir. And he sets out for Em Regis, determined to prove that Delia is a fraud and a criminal. What he finds in Em Regis, however, isn't the nefarious Delia Barrington but two gypsies instead -- in particular the fetching and enchanting Dee. (You guessed it, Dee is actually Delia in disguise).<br />However, before Mitchell can settle into discovering what is going on -- who the gypsies actually are, where Delia Barrington actually is, and why the gypsies are residing at the very cottage he expected to find Delia -- villainous thugs attack. Now, Mitchell and Dee must join forces in order to evade the villains and find out who is after them and why. But can they rely on each other? For while Mitchell is sure that Dee is hiding vital information from him (such as where Delia Barrington actually is, and why villainous killers are trying to kill them), Delia/Dee is still wondering if Mitchell is the mastermind behind William's death, and if he means to harm Robbie...<br />\\"An Inconvenient Heir\\" had three subplots working in tandem with each other. There is the subplot involving the developing romance between Mitchell and Delia; an adventure subplot in which Mitchell and Delia try to evade the murderous (if slightly ineffectual) thugs; and the murder-mystery subplot revolving around the murder to William Holcomb. And while the romance and adventure subplots were really nicely developed -- a smooth unfolding of these plots at a nice and even pace -- I thought that the resolution of the murder-mystery plot was rather rushed. Everything was suddenly presented to you -- clues, suspects, etc -- in a few chapters, and the solution was presented fait accompli. Being a bit of a mystery buff, I'd preferred it if the mystery plot had been a little more developed, but I suppose one cannot have everything! And anyway, Martha Kirkland does a really good job of tying these three rather different and disparate subplots together.<br />One thing really niggled at me however: I couldn't understand why William never talked about his family to Delia. I can see why he wouldn't have wanted to talk much about his father. But you'd have thought that, at some point, he would have talked abouthis favourite older cousin and his situation. It certainly would have helped Delia to know that she didn't have to fear what Mitchell's intentions really were, and this reticence on William's part made no sense to me.<br />On the whole though, \\"An Inconvenient Heir\\" proved to be a truly enjoyable read. It had almost everything -- murder, adventure, intrigue, a dashing hero, a courageous and intelligent heroine and a rather electric romance. Martha Kirkland does a brilliant job of developing the romance between Delia and Mitchell, bringing to the fore the tension that Delia feels about her attraction to a man she doesn't exactly trust, as well as her fear as to what her masquerade will do their relationship once everyone realises that the gypsy Dee and Delia Barrington are one and the same. Also nicely done was the manner in which Kirkland sketches in Mitchell's growing attraction to and appreciation of Dee and his determination to treat her with honour in spite of the fact that he believes her to be a gypsy. Because this is a Signet imprint, the scenes between Mitchell and Dee are fairly innocent, but they still sizzle. All in all, an immensely satisfying and enjoyable read.	2003-01-08
1281589:US	52830980	R1IJNFOHDGIQ50	0821775200	188489189	Grave Intentions (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	a fun 3 1/2 star read	\\"Grave Intentions\\" is the second book in the Lady Priscilla Flanders/Sir Neville Hathaway romance-mystery adventures, and follows closely on the heels of first installment, \\"A Rather Necessary End.\\" In this episode, Lady Priscilla has succumbed to the pleas of her eldest daughter, and has taken her family to London in order to enjoy a bit of the London Season. The last thing she expected was to find herself in the middle of another baffling and dangerous murder investigation!<br />Someone seems to be killing the servants at Bedford Square. The body count is up to three, with the latest victim being that of Mr. Lampman's coachee has upset Lady Priscilla servants no end. And so, in order to try and alleviate some of their anxiety, Lady Priscilla decides to try and discover what's going on. Her attempts at gleaning any new information comes to naught, except to serve to introduce to the very odd and insufferable Cecil Burtrum, who manages to anger Lady Priscilla with his total lack of concern about the murderous goings-on at the square. Little does Lady Priscilla expect, however, that the next time she sees Cecil, he will be dead -- also murdered, like the others before him. Now, Lady Priscilla, along with her good friend, Sir Neville Hathaway, are determined to get to the bottom of what's going on at Bedford Square...<br />\\"Grave Intentions\\" proved to be an entertaining read. The mystery was interesting and intriguing one, even if it did take a while to unwind, and one was left a little in the dark as to what was really going on and why. (Also, there was a dearth of viable suspects). This time around, however, the potential romance that was bubbling between Lady Priscilla and Sir Neville was much more in the fore, than it was in \\"A Rather Necessary End.\\" However, while, on the whole \\"Grave Intentions\\" proved to make for good lighthearted reading, I did find myself feeling a little troubled with the relative ease with which Lady Priscilla and her children seem to haverecovered from the their grief over Lazarus Flanders's (Lady Priscilla husband) death. The man's been dead for barely a year, but except for a mention here and there to show how binding the ties are between Sir Neville and the Flanders family are, hardly anyone talks about missing him! I also found it troubling that Sir Neville, who was supposed to be Flanders's best friend would attempt to start a flirtation-romance so soon after his friend's death. I think I would have preferred it if all these mystery-adventures had taken place a few years after Flanders's death. But that's just me -- and not everyone is going to find this particular plot development troubling.<br />On the whole though, \\"Grave Intentions\\" proved to be a rather good Regency romance (Jo Ann Ferguson does a truly good job of keeping the romance between Lady Priscilla and Sir Neville humming at a tentative sizzle) novel with an interesting mystery plot.	2003-01-04
1289674:US	52830980	R2Y9WIDJ4K6485	0821774883	789671924	The Black Mask (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	a fun read	Here's what I hope will be a helpful hint for readers who would like to read and enjoy (fully) this very diverting book: don't read the plot synopsis at the back cover of the book. When you buy/borrow this book, start reading at once! The plot synopsis gives far too much of the plot away. And while this doesn't really detract too much from allowing one to enjoy the novel, it does (more or less) spell out what's going to happen, thus leaving very little in doubt.<br />All of London is agog with the deeds of the daring Black Mask, a notorious jewel thief who also seems to have something of a social conscience. For, because of the Black Mask's daring deeds, a well known and rich member of society who was guilty of terrible crimes was exposed and forced to leave the country. Is the Black Mask some sort of Robin Hood? Or a mere thief who just happened to help expose one terrible man? That is the question that is being heatedly debated in the London drawing rooms. Rose Spenser, however has other matters on her mind. Finally in London in order to enjoy her Season, and to (hopefully) find a husband that her family will approve of and she can respect and admire (even though she's secretly hoping that she will find a husband that she will be passionately in love with), much of Rose's enjoyment of the London swirl of balls and entertainments is being dimmed by her discontented brother's (Rupert) rash behaviour. <br />Rupert wants to join the army. But their father, afraid that his only son will be killed in battle, has forbidden Rupert to do so. So that while the young man will not go against his father's wishes, his deep unhappiness about his situation has caused him to join a slightly wild set of young men who gamble for high stakes. And now, Rupert is deeply in debt to Sir Niles Alardyce, a much sought after bachelor who has a reputation for being rather supercilious, and whom Rose rather dislikes. <br />Of late, however, Rose's and Sir Niles's paths have began to cross a lot, and Rose keeps seeing flashes of a somewhat different kind of gentleman behind Sir Nile's reserved and stiff ways. Is it just wishful thinking on her part? Or is there something more to Sir Niles? And is there any hope of her being able to approach him about Rupert's debts? And what is it about this very annoying man that has her constantly thinking about him anyway? For there is no denying it Sir Niles is beginning to cut up her peace alarmingly for a gentleman that she proports to despise...<br />I rather enjoyed this book. It had everything -- an interesting storyline, taking characters, evenly placed plot developments and language that was not too modern. But what I really liked was the conversations that Rose and her Aunt Paige had -- they discussed issues such as marriage and love and Sir Niles -- and in a realistic and pragmatic manner. Some readers however may be a little dissatisfied with the interaction between Sir Niles and Rose because there is a slight barbed edge to most of their encounters until the very end when Rose makes a startling discovery. On the whole, however, I found &quot;The Black Mask&quot; to be rather enjoyable and entertaining read, and I do think that most readers would find it to be the same.<br />(P.S. What is up with the very modern dustcover illustration though?)	2002-12-29
1292291:US	52830980	R1928T419DGJTU	0312290977	36294990	The Riddle of the Deplorable Dandy: A Novel of Georgian England	Books	5	3	4	N	N	a little short on romance but a good swashbuckling read	While I rather enjoyed \\"The Riddle of the Deplorable Dandy\\" -- Patricia Veryan is one of my favourite Georgian/Regency romance authours, and I've loved most of her novels -- honesty compels to admit that with this latest \\"Riddle\\" installment, the adventure-intrigue subplot has been developed at the expense of the romance subplot. <br />The novel begins, excitingly enough, with the capture of Vance Clayton, a soldier of fortune and a courier, by the French authorities. Because of his family's reduced financial circumstances, Vance has been forced to become a soldier of fortune (so that he can support his mother and sister), and his current assignment is to act as courier to Madame de Pompadour (the French king's mistress). Madame has a penchant for interring in matters of state, and her enemies at court and the government would give anything in order to obtain proof of her interference. And because the English government is reluctant to interfere in this matter, it is beginning to look as if Vance will be executed as a foreign spy. Not however if his sister, Elspeth and his friend, Nicholas Evans, have anything to do with it. Together, they begin to plan a rescue operation in order to liberate Vance from the French. However things go spectacularly wrong when first, Nicholas is injured thus rendering useless for the rescue mission, and when Elspeth has another disasterous run-in with Gervaise Valerian that almost curtails her rescue attempt!<br />Elspeth and Gervaise have already met and run afoul of each other, and neither have a really good impression (nor are they too keen) of each other (in fact it is Elspeth who labels Gervaise as the 'Deplorable Dandy'). Imagine their shock then when each discovers that their reasons for making the trip to France are actually tied together, and that they actually need each other in order to ensure the success of their missions. Readers who are fans of the \\"Riddle\\" series will remember Gervaise from \\"The Riddle of the ShipwreckedSpinster\\" and know why Gervaise is so keen to get to France. However, for the sake of maintaining the suspense, I'll leave out what Gervaise's mission is so that readers who have not yet read that installment will still be able to enjoy this novel -- all is explained after a couple of chapters anyway. Now, Gervaise and Elspeth must put aside their private opinions of each other and join forces in order to ensure the success of their missions. Will they be able to do so? Or will the Deplorable Dandy's autocratic actions prove too much for Elspeth?<br />Story-wise, \\"The Riddle of the Deplorable Dandy\\" was quite the read -- esp if you enjoy swashbuckling Georgian novels. Patricia Veryan did her usual masterful job in allowing for the 'action' and the story to develop at an even and swift pace, mainataining the supsense, and in allowing for her characters to evolve and come to life. Only two things marred the overall pleasure my enjoyment of this novel. 1) that the romance subplot did indeed suffer because of the adventure subplot. From not thinking very much of each other, Gervaise and Elspeth were suddenly quite taken with each other, exchanging many surreptitious glances and always concerned for each other's welfare. Not that I wanted any heavy scenes. To the contrary. But I would have liked it if the romance subplot had been more developed. And 2) that Elspeth suddenly behaves in a naive and foolish way towards the end of the book, trusting a couple of people who suddenly turn up in France, even when every instinct in her body should have been screaming at her to be more careful! (I cannot explain in more detail without giving away things!)<br />On the whole though, I'd say that this latest \\"Riddle\\" novel is a winner, and one that anyone (romance addict or not) would enjoy immensely.	2002-12-27
1297582:US	52830980	R3FRMR02GLV9IF	0515134147	673235532	The Girl with the Persian Shawl	Books	5	14	15	N	N	an utterly charming read	I loved \\"The Girl with the Persian Shawl.\\" It's the kind of book you want to hug to yourself and read quietly away from the hustle and bustle of day to day life. And while the previous reviewers are quite correct in saying it's all about misapprehensions and miscommunications, the novel is also (in my opinion) an example of how a very plain and basic storyline can be enlivened and made engaging by an enchanting and lively prose style.<br />Harry Gerard, Lord Ainsworth, has been hunting for a painting that one of his ancestors had done about 100 years ago and which has gone missing since then. And when he reads that there is a painting at Rendell Hall (The Girl with the Persian Shawl) that seems to (descriptively) match the one he is after, he sets out to investigate. Unfortunately for Harry, he runs afoul of the painting's owner, Kate Rendell, a beautiful young lady who is incensed at the suggestion that her family heirloom might have been illegally obtained. Proud and impetuous, Kate immediately begins to try and give Harry the rough edge of her tongue, and is quite stunned to discover that it is he that gets the better of her when he subtly points out how rude and disagreeable she's being.<br />The incident preys on her mind, and makes Kate question much of her behavior -- her need to always manage things, her reluctance to back down and acknowledge when she's wrong, and her pride -- and the result makes her feel completely blue- deviled. So that when an invitation to uncle's estate arrives, requesting the need for Kate's and her mother's presence in order to celebrate a special occasion, Kate eagerly leaps at the opportunity for a change of scene, hoping that the festivities and congenial company will help get rid of her fit of dismals as well her latest tendency to think about Harry Gerard all the time. Imagine her shock and surprise when one of the guests turns out to be Harry! Now, Kate has to decide how she will get through this house party with equanimity when she doesn't know how to deal with Harry or her attraction for him...<br />If you like reading about alpha-male heroes and feisty heroines, then \\"The Girl with the Persian Shawl\\" may not be the romance novel for you. True, Kate is stubborn and managing, but she's no amazon. Also, because Kate begins to question much of her behaviour and the manner in which she handles things after the first few chapters, there is a certain and texture and tone to this novel that makes it so very compelling and readable. The story unfolds smoothly and the romance that develops between Harry and Kate, while a little sedate and brief (the trials and tribulations of Kate's youthful and flighty cousin, Deirdre, tended to kidnap much of the novel), was a joy to read.<br />\\"The Girl with the Persian Shawl\\" was a truly fun read, with splendidly drawn characters (esp Kate's mother, who's character simply blossoms as the novel progresses), and is one I have no hesitation in recommending, esp if you like quiet books that focus on character and gentle romance.hen she doesn't know how to deal with Harry or her attraction for him...<br />If you like reading about alpha-male heroes and feisty heroines, then \\"The Girl with the Persian Shawl\\" may not be the romance novel for you. True, Kate is stubborn and managing, but she's no amazon. Also, because Kate begins to question much of her behaviour and the manner in which she handles things after the first few chapters, there is a certain and texture and tone to this novel that makes it so very compelling and readable. The story unfolds smoothly and the romance that develops between Harry and Kate, while a little sedate and brief (the trials and tribulations of Kate's youthful and flighty cousin, Deirdre, tended to kidnap much of the novel), was a joy to read. <br />\\"The Girl with the Persian Shawl\\" was a truly fun read, with splendidly drawn characters (esp Kate's mother, who's character simply blossoms as the novel progresses), and is one I have no hesitation in recommending, esp if you like quiet books that focus on character and gentle romance.	2002-12-21
1298402:US	52830980	R2HA299YZK7S9N	0060508108	371901411	Duchess in Love	Books	3	25	29	N	N	a nice 3 1/2 star romp of a read	\\"Duchess in Love\\" seems, on the surface to be a lighthearted and witty historical 'romp,' with a rather novel focal point: the book deals with the lives and loves of three society hostesses, who, for some reason or the other, are all currently living apart from their husbands. However, do take note: there is also a slight dark underside to this fluffy confection.<br />Many years ago, in order to avert a scandal, a teenage Camden Serrard married his 11 year old cousin Gina, and then left the country in order to pursue his studies as a sculptor in Greece. And all through the years he remained in Greece, Cam and Gina have maintained a cordial and friendly relationship via letters. Now, however, the youthful and beautiful Duchess of Girton (Gina) has decided that she would like to marry a gentleman she's fallen in love with, Sebastian, Marquess Bonnington. But she can only to do this if Cam agrees to grant her an annulment. This, Cam is only too willing to do for Gina's sake. Imagine the couple's shock then when they meet for the first time after so many years, and discover that they are actually attracted to each other! Gina never expected to find that her husband would grow from a gangly teenager to become the charismatic and thrilling young man who actually excites her in a way that her handsome and stiff 'fiance' doesn't, nor does Cam anticipate that he'd find his wife to be a beautiful and enchanting young woman. Neither are really sure if they still want the annulment to go through. But it will take another threat to Gina's reputation and one of Lady Troubridge's scandalous house parties to make both Cam and Gina decide once and for all what it they really want...<br />On the whole I rather enjoyed the novel. And I didn't really mind the secondary plots that involved Gina's friends -- Carola, Lady Perwinkle, who abandoned her husband the day after their marriage because he did not live up to her romantic expectations, and who has regretted her hasty actions ever since; and Esme, Lady Rawlings, a scandalous society matron who's living apart from her husband and who seems to be the object of Gina's fiance (Sebastian)'s disapproval. And while the conversations that the women have about men are actually a little run of the mill (they've all been tackled many, many times before), I'll admit that Eliosa James does add her own special light touch to these conversations. My reservations about this novel, however, stem from the strange and abrupt and almost shocking manner in which the authour tied things together and ended the book. Perhaps it is because there will be future books in this series that will feature some of the other female characters? But I'll admit that I did feel a little shortchanged at the manner in which things were left for one pair of characters at least. (Can't say more without giving things away). <br />The novel unfolded smoothly enough and a steady pace until the last few chapters when things suddenly took an unexpected and shocking turn. Which gave a rather jarring and somewhat uncomfortable effect to the book, I thought. And character-wise, while Carola and Esme do come across as being slightly shallow, both Gina and Cam were splendidly 'fleshed out' -- both are vulnerable and hardened, esp because of Cam's father's influence in their lives, and the authour depicts this brilliantly. And the romance/attraction that develops between Cam and Gina was very nicely done as well. On the whole, I'd say that this was an engaging 3 1/2 star romp of a read.	2002-12-20
1304776:US	52830980	R6V2SHY5Y4QE3	082177459X	526218353	Lord St. Leger's Find (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	4	7	N	N	hero crotchets quite spoilt this novel for me	&quot;Lord St. Leger's Find&quot; proved to be a truly frustrating read. Part of the reason was because I kept itching to hit the hero of the novel, Miles Kennestone, Lord St. Ledger, really hard; another reason was because the language was alarmingly modern; and the third was because the heroine would, at times, revert to pouting like an overwrought teen whenever things didn't quite go her way.<br />Miles Kennestone, Lord St. Leger, fancies himself to be a scholar and a serious archeologist. And the novel begins with Miles's and his close friend's (Ben Romney) arrival at Lowery Park, home to Sir William Lowery, a noted scholar himself. Sir William has has invited both Miles and Ben to Lowery Park in order to excavate a Roman villa on his grounds. And while Miles is excited about being part of this project, he's a bit leery about being at Lowery Park. You see, Miles is a much sought after bachelor, and the last time he was at Lowery Park, two of Sir William's daughters tried desperately to snare his interest. Only the knowledge that Lowery Park will be sans daughters has persuaded Miles to set foot on the estate again. Unknown the Miles, however, is the fact that the youngest Lowery daughter, Melpomene, still lives at home. Not only that, but Melpomene also happens share her father's interest in archeology and has forsworn her London Season in order to take part in the excavation that's going on. And when the pair first meet, sparks just fly. Miles is appalled that there is another Lowery chit who seems to have set her marital sights on him (even to the extent of pretending to be a scholar) and treats her with icy disdain. As for Melpomene, being an intelligent and dedicated archeologist herself, she sees no good reason why she should have to put up with his lordship's crotchets. That is until Sir William asks Miles to work with Melpomene. The more time he spends with her, the more Miles comes to appreciate Melpomene's beauty and intelligence (and vice versa). But he's still unsure if she's using her feminine wiles in order to snare him or if she's the genuine article...<br />I'll admit freely, Miles irritated the heck out of me. He spends passage after passage lusting after Melpomene, but rather than realising that he, and not she, was sending out signals of interest, decided that she was the one trying to reel him in now that she's snared his interest! This was one romance hero who was just too full of himself. And I truly began to wish for some sensible and dashing hero to turn up and sweep Melpomene off her feet. Unfortunately, this never happened. Another thing that peeved was Melpomene's tendency to become slightly overwrought whenever her father paid more attention to her older, visiting sister than to her latest archeological find, and when he forced her to go to London for her Season instead of allowing her to carry on excavating. Fortunately, at some point, towards the end of the book, Melpomene suddenly gains some maturity and actually begins to realise that both her father and her sister had her best interests at heart when they decided that Melpomene needed to have a London Season. Unfortunately, all this happened a little too late.<br />Truth to tell, I found both Miles and Melpomene to be a little tiresome, and had a lot more sympathy for Melpomene's much maligned older sister (she also seemed a much more interesting character in my estimation). Anyway, that's how the book struck me. I leave it to other readers to decide for themselves what to think.	2002-12-14
1306137:US	52830980	R2KWS2CL4MAFKO	0451207610	287108145	A Spinster's Luck (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	7	9	N	N	2 1/2 stars -- plot didn't quite hold my interest	Book reviewing is a highly subjective thing. What it boils down to is your (the reviewer's) own personal reaction to the book -- the characters, the language and plot development. It also (fairly or unfairly) depends on what the reviewer has been reading along with the book under discussion. Having owned to all that, I'll admit that &quot;The Spinster's Luck&quot; did not impress me very much. But not because it was badly written, or because it was full of plot developments that beggared belief or that its character had me wanting to spit nails, but because the plot really had very little tension/conflict.<br />Celia Langston was 16 when her parents (the vicar and his wife) died and left her all alone in the world. Fortunately for Celia, Imogene, the youthful Duchess of Harbrooke (a recent widow) decides to take her in and make her a governess to her children. However, the duchess's brother (the Duke of Severly) is not so sure about this plan. In his mind, Celia is just too young for such a responsibility (and who would have thought I'd find myself agreeing with an autocratic duke?). The duchess however holds her own ground, and insists on keeping Celia on. Unknown to the duke and duchess however, Celia had overheard every single damning word of that fateful interview, and the duke has coalesced in Celia's mind ever since as a hard and overbearing man.<br />Ten years pass, and Celia is now a very beautiful young woman. Something that the duke notices when he comes over for a visit. Celia, however, still thinks of the duke as a despicable man, and takes great pains to avoid him. And for a duke who has been at the receiving end of a lot of female adulation, Celia's behaviour is a conundrum, and one he is determined to get to the bottom of...<br />The thing is that for me, no matter how much Rhonda Woodward tried to dress up, both the heroine and the plot proved to be little uninteresting to me. Celia Langston proved to be a very sweet natured heroine with a heart of gold, and if the storyline had been a little more compelling than this novel probably would have worked for me. As it is, &quot;The Spinster's Luck turned out to be a bit of a bland read for me. Also, the romance that develops between Celia and the duke seems to be based solely (on his part) on her beauty and her kind nature, and on her's because he's good looking, dashing and behaves in a totally unexpected kindly fashion towards her. (Remember that she thinks of him as a hardhearted ogre.) The couple never really talk or exchange ideas, and I found myself wondering about how their marriage would turn out in the years to come once Celia had shed some of her dewy-eyed naivety. Also for a 26 year old, Celia behaved and acted more like an unsure 18 year old most of the time -- I think that this was supposed to show how very unsophisticated her character was. Except that her lack of maturity/self-possession sometimes grated. There was also the fact that the romance between Celia and the duke lacked sizzle. <br />&quot;The Spinster's Luck&quot; read like a Cinderella novel without the stepmothers and stepsisters and whole cruelty bit -- in other words (as I noted before) no tension or friction. The only friction seemed to stem from Celia's bad opinion of the duke which jarred with her blossoming attraction to him, and the fact he may or may not be in love with his mistress. This, however was not quite enough for me. The characters were, on the whole, rather well 'fleshed out.' And truth be told, this is rather well written novel. But the romance and storyline just didn't do it for me -- even the secondary romance involving Imogene, the Duchess of Harbrooke and an old admirer, failed to snare my interest. What I'd like to add though is that even though this novel failed to capture my interest, it doesn't follow that others may not enjoy &quot;The Spinster's Luck&quot; themselves. And what I'd advise is that you decide for yourselves whether or not &quot;The Spinster's Luck&quot; is a worthwhile read.	2002-12-13
1309316:US	52830980	RS98JHJ47ONV0	0060004541	734531658	Adele: Jane Eyre's Hidden Story	Books	5	5	16	N	N	beyond 5 stars: a simply fantastic and riveting read	I was 14 when I first read \\"Jane Eyre,\\" and even though (as time passed) certain things about Bronte's novel did bother me a little (esp after I had read Jean Rhy's \\"Wide Sargasso Sea\\" -- another firm favourite, and a really magnificent novel), \\"Jane Eyre\\" remained a treasured favourite. There was something about Jane, the quiet, courageous, morally strong and most unlikely of gothic heroines, that struck my fancy. So that it was with some apprehension that I first picked up Emma Tennant's \\"Adele.\\" I hadn't really liked her sequel to \\"Pride and Prejudice\\" (\\"Pemberly\\"), and I was a little nervous with what she might have done with \\"Jane Eyre.\\"  What a joy then to discover that with \\"Adele,\\" Tennant has combined elements that I really liked from both \\"Jane Eyre\\" and \\"Wide Sargasso Sea,\\" added her own little twist to the story of Jane/Rochester/Adele and what took place at Thornfield, and came with this really superb novel. No mistake about it, Emma Tennant's \\"Adele\\" is a novel to be read and savoured whether or not you are a Bronte or English lit fan.<br />Even though there are five narrative voices in \\"Adele\\" -- Adele's, Rochester's, Jane's Mrs. Fairfax's, and Grace Poole's -- we see things mostly through Adele's eyes. When we first her, she's a young child (of about 8) living in Paris, and reveling in the knowledge that she is the child of the celebrated performance artist, Celine Verans, also one of the most beautiful and most sort after of women. But Adele's world comes crashing down upon her when her mother suddenly decamps with a lover to Italy, leaving her daughter behind. With no one willing to take on the guardianship of a young child, Adele is shipped off to her father's estate (Thornfield) in England, and to live with a man that Adele is somewhat afraid of and distrusts.<br />At Thornfield, however, Adele is no longer treated as the pampered and treasured little girl, but as a hindrance, and is both neglected and ignored. As such she soon stumbles onto thesecret of Thornfield: her father's deranged and much abused wife, Antoinette/Bertha. She also learns that her father means to marry the haughty heiress, Blanche Ingram, even as she watches her father romancing her plain and (in her own words) banal governess, Jane Eyre. But for Adele, who yearns to be loved and accepted wholeheartedly, her father should marry no one but her mother. And so she plots to bring her parents together, never dreaming that her actions would set off a course of reactions both unexpected and explosive...<br />\\"Adele\\" was a real joy to read. The authour successfully captures the voices of each of her narrators -- Adele, who is very young and alone, who craves security and love; the mercurial Rochester who is in turns angry, bitter and remorseful (esp of his treatment of Antoinette/Berta); and, of course Jane, the moral center of the entire novel, and who tries to bridge the gap between Adele and Rochester without much initial success. Each voice adds a dimension and complexity to the basic Bronte plot-line and makes the Tennant novel a completely new and engrossing experience. Which voice/narrative, for example, are we to rely on as a reliable source? What is the truth? This is the questions that haunt as one reads \\"Adele.\\" And although with so many narrative voices, all clamouring for attention, one would expect the smooth flow of the story line to have become bogged down, this never ever happened. Under Emma Tennant's skillful hand however, the plot of \\"Adele\\" unfolded seamlessly and effortlessly -- you can tell, I was really drawn into the events that were unfolding before my eyes!<br />For readers that may be quite familiar with Bronte's \\"Jane Eyre\\" & Rhys's \\"Wide Sargasso Sea,\\" and who may feel that there is very little novel or new that anyone can add to this plot-line, I'd really urge them to read this new Emma Tennant novel. \\"Adele\\" proved to be a moving and engrossing read, and one that I was happy to have indulged in.	2002-12-11
1313719:US	52830980	R2E41MYC43HIZD	0451206959	19020224	The Wedding Journey (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	not the usual fare -- but what a read!!	This latest Carla Kelly Regency romance is not the usual kind of novel that one would expect from a Signet imprint. It's a gutsy novel that deals with the impact of war, and it centers on the bravery and fortitude of ordinary people (no lords and ladies of the English ton here), who somehow find the courage within themselves to soldier on in spite of the obstacles put in their path, and about the pluck of one particular couple who manage to forge a deep and enduring love admist all the mayhem and danger around them.<br />Nell Mason has spent her entire life following the drum and trying to care for her family -- her father is an officer who is unfortunately a hardened gambler, and her mother has long since given up trying to cope her husband's fecklessness and the family's obvious poverty. Now, however Nell faces a threat that even she is at loss as to how she will cope: her father owes a very large sum of money to a lecherous fellow officer, Major Bones, who has indicated that he would be only all too willing to have Nell in exchange for canceling the debt. Nell has no idea as to how she can save herself when Captain Jesse Randall, assistant surgeon of Marching Hospital Number Eight steps in. Jesse has long admired Nell for her courage and fortitude, and has been in love for the past few years as well. But being a shy and unassuming sort, has not made his feelings known to Nell. Now, he offers to marry her in order to save from Bone's lecherous intentions, even promising to give her annulment if she should so wish once the campaign is over. And in spite of all the death and hardship all around him, Jesse has hopes of winning his new wife's affections and esteem, and making their marriage a real one. What he didn't count on was having to contend with Bone's thirst for revenge as well...<br />If you prefer your Regencies feature sighing heroines and frustrated heroes, that either take place within the context of the London Season, or within the confines of some palatial estate or the other, this may not be the book for you. \\"The Wedding Journey\\" is quite sombre in tone. The novel, after all, deals with war and all the death and treachery that comes with it, as well as the unexpected acts of kindness and heroism from surprising quarters. (And Carla Kelly does a fantastic job of bringing the realities of the Spanish-Portugal campaign to life.) Also, character development, rather than storyline, is the focal point here -- and not only Jesse's and Nell's but also the rascally privates who had been seconded to help Unit Eight, and the Frenchman they pick up along the way. And while the romance between Jesse and Nell is somewhat muted at times, I thought it actually fitted in rather well within the context of this particular book -- the book is after all about a 'wedding journey' in which the newly wedded couple would get to know each other a little more intimately. It was wonderful to 'watch' how both Jesse's and Nell's character unfolded as each discovered untold reservoirs of courage and compassion within themselves. And it was wonderful to 'see' their romance gently blossoming admidst all the death and danger.<br />\\"The Wedding Journey\\" is so much more than a mere romance novel. While there was practically nothing 'fluffy' or lighthearted about this book, it still turned out to be a very engrossing, captivating and endearing read. Definitely a book that should not be missed.<BR>v	2002-12-07
1314593:US	52830980	R3UHAVIU70UPUL	0821773755	550519229	A Convenient Marriage (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	and engaging and delightful read	Plain and intelligent heiress Beatrice Chaswell could hardly believe her luck when the incredibly handsome and kindly Earl of Faulconer, Gabriel Baxtor, actually began to court her. And in no time at all, the dashing earl had won Beatrice's heart. But Beatrice's joy soon turns to ashes when she discovers on her wedding day that Gabriel is actually a fortune hunter, and that he has married her solely for her fortune. Angry and bitter, Beatrice turns against Gabriel, treating him with a coldness and disdain totally foreign to her warm nature. As for Gabriel, while he regrets having misrepresented himself so woefully to Beatrice, he's at loss to figure out how he can make things right with Beatrice, and so see the warm hearted and generous woman he fell in love with in the London drawing rooms. And just as Gabriel is beginning to despair about the state of his marriage, Beatrice's old parish priest, Vicar Humbly, descends on them unexpectedly for a visit. <br />It doesn't take too long for Vicar Humbly to realise the miserable state of affairs at Falcon Park. And as he did with Addy and Adam (&quot;A Proper Marriage&quot;) the gentle vicar is determined to take a hand at mending things between Beatrice and Gabriel. This time around however, the vicar's task is complicated by the presence of Gabriel's marriage minded aunt who is determined to nab the vicar for herself!<br />I liked this particular installment of the &quot;Marriage&quot; series very much. Perhaps it's because the characters of both Beatrice and Gabriel &quot;spoke&quot; to me. At any rate, it was really easy to empathise with both principals -- even when I became (at times) a little impatient with Beatrice over her intransigence -- and to root for the couple to work through their problem of broken trust, and so achieve their happily ever-after ending. Debbie Raleigh did a first rate job of putting forward both Beatrice's and Gabriel's points-of-view and feelings. And I loved Gabriel's renewed courtship of his wife -- it was both romantic and steamy. As for the scenes between Vicar Humbly and Mrs. Quarry (Gabriel's aunt) their were a treat to read.<br />Storywise, &quot;A Convenient Marriage&quot; almost (but not quite) breaks new ground. It did (in parts) remind a little of Georgette Heyer's masterpiece &quot;A Civil Contract.&quot; I liked that this was a story about the rebuilding of fractured ties, that the heroine was not a fashion plate (and that her husband did not try to turn into one) and that the hero, realising the role he played in making his marriage a mess, was patient and actually persevered in trying to mend what he destroyed. All in all, definitely a romance novel worth recommending.	2002-12-06
1321072:US	52830980	RJ8RWQ0P40Z3V	0312306555	899312246	A Restless Evil: A Mitchell and Markby Mystery	Books	5	3	4	N	N	one of the best "cozy"/police procedurals I've read all year	This is, I think, one of the better Alan Markby & Meredith Mitchell murder mysteries. <br />Detective Superintendent Alan Markby and his fiancee, Meredith Mitchell, are house hunting at Lower Stovey, when news of a grisly discovery at Stovey Woods filters through. Apparently a hiker had stumbled over some human bones. For Alan Markby however, the find and the woods bring to mind a case that he considers one of his more spectacular failures -- the case of a serial rapist, known as the Potato Man, who operated at Stovey Woods about 20 years ago, and who was never caught. Could the bones be the remains of the Potato Man? And was the reason why he suddenly stopped assaulting women be because he was killed all those years ago? These are the questions Markby that haunt Markby as he begins the investigation into discovering whose bones these could be. And then a church warden is found murdered in the church at Lower Stovey. And even as Markby initiates the investigation into this murder, he cannot help but wander if this new murder is connected in any way to the rapes at Stovey Woods all those years ago? Or if the two cases are totally unconnected? Unfortunately for Markby and his team, the villagers have their own fair share of secrets that they'd rather never saw the light of day, and they soon close ranks against the police. But Markby is determined that this time around (at least) he will get a result at Lower Stovey.<br />The previous reviewer hit nail on the head. This mystery novel was a completely enjoyable and engrossing read. And \\"A Restless Evil\\" turned out to be one of the best cozy/police procedurals that I've read all year. Ann Granger does a wonderfully job of skillfully guiding the reader through each new development, and each new development added a new dimension to this richly nuanced mystery novel, thus making this mystery in particular a truly brilliant read. The mystery unfolded smoothly and seamlessly, and Granger did a magnificent job of maintainingthe level of tension throughout the book. <br />With the cooler and greyer weather, and shorter daylight hours, \\"A Restless Evil\\" is just the thing to curl up with one of these winter nights. Definitely a worthwhile read.	2002-12-02
1323920:US	52830980	R28JFJ6LZ0963N	0312287755	600311154	Mistletoe and Murder (Daisy Dalrymple Mysteries, No. 11)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	and excellent "cozy" read -- just the thing to curl up with	A semi-deserted family estate in the middle of a region rich in smuggler lore, that also boasts of having it's own fair share of ghosts and secret passages, stories of missing treasure, and that is currently home to a family of poor relations -- these are just some of the ingredients that Carola Dunn has used to whip up the latest Daisy Dalrymple murder mystery. Does she deliver? I thought so. \\"Mistletoe and Murder\\" turned out to be a rather charming and entertaining read. And while the mystery plot did take a while to get under way, I did not feel shortchanged at all since the authour wisely spent half the book setting the stage -- filling us in on the past and present histories of the Norvilles (both the richer and the poor relations), and fleshing out the various characters that were about to become suspects of the for murder mystery that was about to take place.<br />It's December of 1923, and Daisy and Alec are about to spend their very first Christmas as a married couple together (barring Alec getting called up to investigate another criminal case, of course). But first, Daisy has to go away for a few days in order to write an article on a distant cousin's estate, Brockdene, for her magazine, 'Town and Country.' Unfortunately for Daisy, when her mother, the Dowager Viscountess Dalrymple, gets wind of Daisy's plans, she comes up with a counter-plan of her own. The Dowager has decided that her entire family will spend Christmas together at Brockdene as guests of Lord Westmoor (the owner of Brockdene). Unbeknownst to the Dowager (who envisions some sort of elegant Christmas do peopled by the \\"right\\" sort of people) however, her plans are destined not to be realised: to begin with Westmoor and his family no longer spend Christmas at Brockdene and Brockdene is currently home to Westmoor's uncle's children -- scandal-ridden, poorer relations that have never really been acknowledged; also Daisy's sister has fallen ill, and so neither she nor her husband will be ableto attend the Christmas festivities. All in all, not the kind of family gathering the Dowager had in mind. <br />In attendance however is an ex-missionary priest who has some connection to these scandalous Norville relations, and who seems to have been invited to Brockdene for a particular reason. What this reason is, Daisy isn't exactly sure (though she is dying to know), but she is sure that the reverend's presence is putting a strain on the Norville family, and that the tension and resentment is taking a toll on everyone. Esp since the reverend proves to be a rather stiff-rumped disapproving sort who soon puts a damper on the entire gathering. And then the reverend is found murdered in chapel. The obvious suspects are (of course) the poor Norville relations, but new information soon puts other Norville relations (Westmoor as well) in the running for prime suspect. Why was the reverend murdered and by whom? And as much as Daisy may like most of the poor relations, she cannot deny that one of them may have had the best reason for killing the reverend...<br />I really enjoyed reading this latest Daisy Dalrymple murder mystery. True, the mystery plot did take a while to unwind. But Carola Dunn told her story in such a charming, elegant and clever manner that I didn't feel impatient at all that the mystery proper took a while to get started. And then there was the poignant subplot involving the 'scandal'-ridden poorer Norville relations. I was truly involved with their plight and was really rooting for them to come out on top. There were, on the whole, very few plot twists, but there were suspects in the plenty. And the novel was rich in atmosphere and period charm, with a good storyline and a telling indictment on prejudice. For me, \\"Mistletoe and Murder\\" was a truly excellent read.	2002-11-29
1329925:US	52830980	RQZU0EISOC95C	0451207270	70440411	The Rake's Mistake (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	a goodish read although main plot lacked originality	&quot;The Rake's Mistake&quot; revolves around the much used subplot involving the blossoming romance between a not quite so reformed rake (Lord Ramsdale) and a young lady with a very undeserved notorious reputation and his attempts to salvage her reputation and win her love.<br />Archer Everett Drake, Lord Ramsdale, has just returned from a three year exile (caused by his wild behavior) in order to take up his responsibilities to his estate and family, when he spies the incredibly beautiful but quite notorious Lady Daphne Wetherill. It is reputed that the lady is little better than a courtesan, and Ramsdale can think of no good reason why he should not number as the lady's latest conquest. And so striking up a friendship with Lady Wetherill's stepson, Ramsdale manages to insinuate himself into the lady's life. However, instead of finding a hardened but beautiful lady, eager for a liaison, Ramsdale finds Daphne to be not at all as he expected -- not only is she intelligent but she is also completely circumspect in her behavior towards him. And how he longs to protect from the sharp and censorious tongues of the ton! Does Ramsdale (who has fallen completely under her spell) still intend to seduce Daphne into an affair or does he have something else in mind for the lady? <br />By now, even though it still hurts, Daphne is quite used to people (esp men) thinking the worst of her. Her father was a talented artist, and she quite often posed for his paintings (and for his students). And somehow everyone just assumed that her reputation of being a lady of fast and loose morals was well deserved. Esp after her marriage to the aging Lord Wetherill. And so, for her stepson's sake (as well for her own peace of mind), Daphne has taken great care to live in seclusion. But the gossip mill about her supposed affairs still grinds. And now, here's Lord Ramsdale, who looks and acts like every young girl's dream come true, constantly at her doorstep, offering friendship, and perhaps abit more? Daphne knows she has to be very careful or else loose what little reputation she has left. And then a scandal involving her father suddenly surfaces, and Daphne knows not what to do. Ramsdale is promising to help her resolve the issue. But can she trust him? Or will he use the situation in order to force her into something she doesn't want?<br />While &quot;The Rake's Mistake&quot; is quite a good read, I finished the book feeling rather frustrated that Gail Eastwood shied away from having Daphne and Ramsdale discuss his original expectation that she would succumb to having an affair with him. Halfway through the novel, they actually begin to have this conversation. Unfortunately, after an initial stab at standing up for herself and pointing out Ramsdale selfishness, Daphne allowed Ramsdale to get the upper hand in this discussion. And after that, the entire subplot involving Daphne's father and his painting got in the way, and this issue was never really broached again. I suppose I wanted something along the lines of Diane Farr's &quot;Fair Game&quot; where the hero realised the error of his ways (while the heroine never gave an inch) and made good. The other problem I had with this novel was that in spite of the fact that I rather liked Daphne (and Ramsdale was not too bad either), for me anyway, the whole romance between Daphne and Ramsdale somehow lacked sizzle. On the other hand, I thought that the author did a rather wonderful job of painting Daphne's untenable position in the ton, as well showing us her courage and resilience. If ever a heroine deserved a worthy hero, it was Daphne. I also thought that the author had done a rather good job of showing us how conflicted Ramsdale felt about Daphne -- his feeling for her and his conflicting intentions. <br />As you can see, I had conflicting feeling about this novel: on the whole it was a rather good read. But some things about this book still niggled, leaving me a little frustrated.	2002-11-23
1331341:US	52830980	R75PUTEZ2KS1I	0821773615	827655094	The Incorrigible Sophia (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	a good second installment in the Sophia Bancroft series	\\"The Incorrigible Sophia\\" is the second in the Sophia Bancroft mystery series (the first was \\"The Impertinent Miss Bancroft). Sophia is now engaged to her employer, the diplomat Lucian, Viscount Northrop, but she's still under his employ as a governess (this is to thwart Sophia's cousin and guardian, Jonathan, who is still trying to stop the upcoming nuptials). Right now however, Sophia is busy trying to 'find' her place in Society as Lucian's fiancee, and squabbling with Lucian as to when their wedding date should be, when murder finds it's way into Sophia's life again!<br />It looks as if there was a very cunning traitor operating at the Admiralty: papers have gone missing -- more importantly missives that would reveal to Bonaparte that the British know full well that plans to invade England are about to be carried out. With things in such a delicate and precarious state, the Prime Minister, Mr. Pitt, has ordered that the Horse Guards, the Admiralty, the Foreign Office and the War Office to work together in order to figure out who this traitor is and to put a stop to his activities. And even though Lucian and his brother, Andrew, are in the thick of this investigation, it is the murder of a young naval officer that Sophia rather liked, Peter Marston, that propels her into trying to discover who Marston's murderer could be, and so the identity of the traitor. A dangerous undertaking indeed, but Sophia's task becomes even more complicated when she discovers that the authorities suspect Marston of being a traitor himself. Unable to believe that the likable young man could have been doing anything wrong, Sophia decides to investigate in spite of Lucian's disapproval. A task that proves even more difficult when Andrew (Lucian's brother) himself is accused of being Marston's murderer and Sophia's despicable cousin, Jonathan, turns up in London, determined to put an end to Sophia's engagement to Lucian...<br />I rather liked \\"The Incorrigible Sophia\\" -- but not because it was a romance novel par excellence, or because it boasted of a rather intriguing spy subplot, but (mostly) because it dealt with how an engaged couple coped with a few issues in their otherwise smooth-running relationship. For example, Sophia really chafes at Lucian tendency to want to wrap her in cotton-wool and protect her from certain evils in life; while Sophia's stubbornness, independence and tendency to want to investigate every mystery she stumbles across truly alarms Lucian. But instead of having both characters pout and rant at each other, Karla Hocker has opted for the couple to take the high road instead. Both Lucian and Sophia realise that these traits that they find irksome in each other are not about to go away but they also realise that these are the very qualities that made them fall for each other in the first place, and that they'd rather prefer it if neither of them changed who they were in order to please each other. A refreshingly mature and adult view that bodes well (I think) for this couple's happily ever-after ending! Another thing I also liked about this novel was the portrayal of the women in the book. They were ALL (from Sophia onwards) depicted as intelligent and courageous women. Another refreshing change! <br />Story-wise, while it was fairly easy to figure out who the villain(s) of the piece was/were, the book still make for engrossing reading (there were quite a few plot twists), esp since I was dying to see how Sophia would unravel this Gorgon's knot and resolve everything before the 'official' investigators did. And Sophia and Lucian are so perfect for each other that I couldn't help but root for them to overcome these few tiresome niggles in their relationship. I would, however, advise reading \\"The Impertinent Miss Bancroft\\" first so that you really get to appreciate the romance between Lucian and Sophia (and certain things about their engagement and Sophia's past and family background). On the whole, other than to warn that theromance subplot was a little muted this time around, I'd recommend \\"The Incorrigible Sophia\\" as a truly enjoyable read.	2002-11-22
1335277:US	52830980	R15BY6SRK186RU	0312266804	146463999	Out on a Limb: A Claire Malloy Mystery	Books	5	8	9	N	N	a humourous and engaging read	You could say that it all started about a month ago, when Claire Malloy, owner of Faberville's only bookstore, part-time amateur sleuth, and mother to sixteen year old Caron, helped deliver the baby of an (apparently) abused teenager living on the streets. But after having seen that the girl and her newborn son made it to the shelter for abused women, Claire never thought to see either them again. And yet here's the baby boy, left (literally) at her doorstep with a note from the mother begging Claire to look after her son while she tries to sort a few things out, extolling Claire NOT to contact the authorities and promising to retrieve the child in a few days. Unfortunately, the next thing Claire knows is that she's watching a newsclip on her TV of the baby's mother being arrested for murder! <br />It turns out that the baby's mother is Daphne Armstrong, the only daughter of Faberville's own shady land developer, Anthony Armstrong. Daphne had runaway from home the previous year when she realised that she was pregnant and when her father had demanded that she have an abortion. Now Anthony Armstrong has been found murdered in his own study, and witnesses (who include Armstrong's trophy wife and her sister) claim to have seen Daphne fleeing the scene minutes after shots were fired, gun in hand. It looks like an open-and-shut case, but Claire is sure that Daphne is innocent of the crime. And so decides to investigate. (It's either that or risk being lumbered with caring for the baby for the next 16 years). But this soon proves to be a case with quite a few 'legs.' Many people had a reason to dislike Armstrong immensely -- like the members of Faberville's Green Party, who claim that Armstrong is bribing the planning commission in order to build at sites that should be preserved. Claire's good (and slightly eccentric) friend, retired school teacher Emily Parchester, has even decided (to Claire's dismay) to 'sit' in a tree until the planning commission rethinks it's decision to allow Armstrong to destroy a valueable corpse of trees. And then there is Armstrong's first wife and Daphne's mother, Sheila, whom he divorced and who received a very shabby divorce settlement. And of course one must not forget Daphne herself who had reasons of her own to resent her father... Soon, Claire is busy hanging out with Faberville's rich and trendy set as she tries to discover if anyone else in Armstrong's set could have had a strong enough motive to kill him and pin the murder on Daphne. But she also has to keep an eye on Emily Parchester, and make sure that she doesn't come to harm. As well as make sure that Peter, the police detective she's dating, doesn't get wind of what she's up to (they have a very complicated relationship)! And then there is Caron's (Claire's 16 year old daughter) strained and tempestuous reaction to what's going on... Perhaps Claire is juggling a bit more than she can take on?<br />Joan Hess's Claire Malloy mystery series has always been a firm favourite. And I'm really thrilled that I can report with all honesty that this latest installment is as funny and as whimsical as the other books in the series. The mystery may take a little longer than necessary to unfold, and one really has to wonder about Claire and Peter's relationship, esp since she spends a lot of time hiding things from him and he spends an equal amount of time disapproving of her tendency to get involved in murder investigations, but most of the joy that one gleans from this series is in the characters -- old favourites that any reader cannot help but be engaged by, eccentric and funny (all of them) -- and in Joan Hess's wonderful and witty manner of telling a story. I loved all the sarcastic asides and ironic humour in the book. And I loved that Caron still speaks in capitol letters -- she's such a riot, and really adds colour to the plot. All in all, \\"Out on a Limb\\" was a wonderfully engaging and fun read that is bound to please (and amuse).	2002-11-19
1346357:US	52830980	R2FMUT7D5EYLX8	0451207432	999967856	Kindred Spirits (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	a riveting read	A word of warning: while I really did enjoy reading \\"Kindred Spirits,\\" quite a bit, I must confess that the novel did drag a bit halfway through the book, and that while (for the most part) I did find myself sympathising with the heroine, Marianne Barnett, I did also find myself growing mildly exasperated with her inability to come to grips with her fears -- and perhaps this was because Allison Lane dwelt a little bit too long (and too often) on this subplot!<br />Colonel Jack Caldwell, haunted by what happened at Waterloo, and afraid that he had finally succumbed to his family legacy of brutality and cowardice, has decide to try and end his life. However when he finds the spot from which he will hurl his body off, he's interrupted by Miss Marianne Barnett, a young lady he rescued from the horrors of the French Revolution twelve years ago. It appears that Marianne owns and has been living on the estate next to the one he has recently inherited. Now, Marianne has her own share of demons. Twelve years ago, Marianne watched her family die at the hands of a French mob. That, together with the unkindness she experienced at the hands of her remaining family has given her a fear of strangers, and she's spent the past twelve years living in seclusion at her family estate. Now, however, with her trust about to end, Marianne will have full control of her inheritance, and she realises that she will have to learn how to overcome her fears. How she wishes that there was someone she could turn to and confide her fears. And then she sees Jack and recognises him as her valiant rescuer from the past. Realising that she had interrupted a suicide attempt, Marianne quickly decides to confide her fears to Jack, hoping that she will turn his mind from thoughts of death, and that he will, somehow, rescue her again. Will Marianne diversionary tactics work? But little do Jack and Marianne realise that danger comes not from their pasts but from a desperate and unscrupulous relative out to steal Marianne's inheritance, and who will stop at nothing in order to obtain this desired result...<br />On the whole, \\"Kindred Spirits\\" was really good read. Allison Lane has real knack for spinning a good yarn and for providing with us with sympathetic and engaging primary characters. However, while the story did unfold seamlessly for most of the book, once the scene of action changed from the country to London, I did think that things began to lag a bit. I didn't think that there was any good reason why it took until the third chapter from the end for Marianne to confront her detractors and successfully defend her right to run her own estate. Also, while I truly did sympathise with Marianne for all that she gone through (and believe me, she has survived and experienced a great deal of cruelty, brutality and grief), I found myself growing a little impatient with our heroine's reluctance to face her fears. Perhaps it is because this coincided with the sudden bogging down of the storyline? Whatever the reason, I did wish that Marianne had started showing a little more backbone and grit earliar than she did.<br />On the whole, \\"Kindred Spirits\\" was a wonderful read, and one (despite the few niggles) that I would have no trouble recommending.	2002-11-09
1346819:US	52830980	R1Z3LYWSB5Z1RJ	0821771817	203264618	His Last Lover (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	a must read!	With this second installment in the Braedon family chronicles, Mary Blayney (the authour) completely lived up to my expectations and delivered an interesting and engaging novel that is (spectacularly) well written to boot. This time around, the hero of the piece is the eldest (and much despised) son, James Braedon, Viscount Crandall.<br />The novel opens with James returning to Braemoor (the family estate) only to find it in flames. It is believed that his father, the Marquis of Straeford, may have started the estate on fire during one of his deranged episodes. Now, James is faced with trying to rebuild the house, maintain the estate as well as care for a cold and uncaring father whose bad humours are going from bad to worse. On top of it all, half the staff seems to have decamped, refusing to work anymore for the evil and mad marquis. Desperate to hire a housekeeper in order to alleviate some of the burdens of maintaining the household, James (reluctantly) hires a young Frenchwoman, Marguerite Voisson to the post. The last thing he expected was that Marguerite, who has experienced more than her fair share of trouble and heartache, but, who nevertheless seems to have maintained a rather optimistic and pragmatic way of looking at things, would affect him so, and pierce through the careful armour of indifference that he had erected to keep the world at bay. Or that her charm and warm nature would awaken a yearning in him. But James had always vowed that he would never allow an emotion such as love to affect him. What then of his feelings for Marguerite? Will James open his heart to her? Or will he decide that he has suffered enough heartache in his life and rebuff the love that Marguerite is offering?<br />This is a romance novel to be read and savoured. A lot of the novel deals with both how Marguerite settles into her job and wins the approval and affection of all those around her, and how her relationship with James progresses from sympathy and empathy to love. Quite a bit of the novel also deals with James's background and why his father hates him so. As such, if you're looking for an 'easy' read all about tea parties and flirtations, this may not be the book for you. The storyline for \\"His Last Lover\\" is much more serious in nature, and the tone is also much more sombre. But it was written in a sensitive and intelligent manner that it made for compelling and riveting reading. I loved \\"His Last Lover.\\" You really get to appreciate what a wonderful storyteller Mary Blayney is with this novel. And other than to note that the story unfolds seamlessly (though at a moderate pace), and that the characters were all brilliantly and vividly painted, all I'm going to do is recommend that you go out and buy or borrow this book.te a bit of the novel also deals with James's background and why his father hates him so. As such, if you're looking for an 'easy' read all about tea parties and flirtations, this may not be the book for you. The storyline for \\"His Last Lover\\" is much more serious in nature, and the tone is also much more sombre. But it was written in a sensitive and intelligent manner that it made for compelling and riveting reading. I loved \\"His Last Lover.\\" You really get to appreciate what a wonderful storyteller Mary Blayney is with this novel. And other than to note that the story unfolds seamlessly (though at a moderate pace), and that the characters were all brilliantly and vividly painted, all I'm going to do is recommend that you go out and buy or borrow this book.	2002-11-09
1347498:US	52830980	R741OYRBHSPWF	0425187411	431075071	An Improper Death (Dr. Alexandra Gladstone Mysteries)	Books	2	5	8	N	N	a not very intriguing read	The little village of Newton-Upon-Sea is bubbling with rumour and conjecture. One of the village's most respected of residents, Admiral George Orkwright, is found dead on the beach, wearing nothing but his wife's underclothes. The village constable, Mr. Snow, believes that the admiral donned his wife's undergarments while under the influence of a lot of alcohol, ventured out into the night, fell into the sea and drowned. Of course the lady doctor of Newton-Upon-Sea, Alexandra Gladstone finds such an explanation ludicrous, and she would like to perform an autopsy so as to be sure about the cause of death. To her surprise, Snow blocks her request. Determined to discover how the admiral died and why he was in his wife's undergarments, Alexandra, together with her trusty housekeeper (and sidekick in investigations), Nancy, begins to discreetly investigate the circumstances surrounding the admiral's death, and soon finds that things are a whole lot more complicated than she anticipated. For example, there are some rather unpleasant rumours about the admiral's estranged stepson, John, who has since taken to a life of crime. And then there is Snow's baffling behaviour. Why is he blocking an investigation into the admiral's death? And why is he so protective of the widow and her family? No matter the personal cost, Alexandra is bound and determined to get to the bottom of the admiral's death...<br />The trouble with \\"An Improper Death\\" was that it was just not written in a very exciting, gripping or tantalizing manner. (Characters were not very well developed, and some of the characters behave in such strange manner that their reasons for doing so just beggar belief. Unfortunately I cannot really go into this without revealing plot spoilers). When I read Anne Perry's mystery novels with similar themes, I become so engrossed with the plot and the characters, that I find it really hard to put down the book and do the day-to-day tasks that must be tackled. With 'An Improper Death,\\" I started flipping after a while. After the initial intriguing and promising start, things just meandered on and on while Alexandra, Nancy and Nicholas Forsythe (Nicholas has been hired to defend John on charges of burglary) try to sift fact from gossip, and try to make sense of all the evidence that Alexandra has collected to date regarding the admiral's death. What I really liked about the novel were the bits of historical detail and the bits that dealt with Alexandra's work as a village doctor. The mystery, however, left me cold. I also found Alexandra Gladstone's character to be as uninteresting as ever; so too her potential romantic interest, Nicholas Forsythe. He was as vapid as he was in the first Dr. Alexandra Gladstone mystery novel. This time around however, I was dismayed to realise that I even found Alexandra's detecting sidekick and servant, Nancy, to be as irritating as well. (Perhaps I'm feeling slightly unwell and things are not as bleak as they seem?) Only Constable Snow remained as interesting, engaging and as mysterious as ever. What is his story? And why does he go to such pains to hide his intelligence and his quick wittedness? And I will probably read further installment of this series for this character (and fortunately, I'm currently working at a bookshop, and so will be able to flip through future books without having to buy them!)<br />If you want to read a truly gripping English mystery novel set in the Victorian period, try any one of the Thomas and Charlotte Pitt novels by Anne Perry, or one of the early William Monk mysteries (also by Anne Perry). Because, aside from the character of Constable Snow, there is very little to recommend this Dr. Alexandra Gladstone mystery series.	2002-11-08
1349377:US	52830980	R2T8SVNJLU5EVN	0451206754	793577851	Must Be Magic	Books	4	8	8	N	N	a 'magical' read	In my opinion, Patricia Rice's \\"Must Be Magic\\" is a must read. The story is a charming one and whimsical one that is bound to engage. However, it is, I must own, not a perfect book, and has it's share of what I call 'plot niggles.' <br />For example, it takes forever for Dunstan to acknowledge that he needs help in trying to discover who actually murdered his faithless wife and to establish his innocence. His pigheadedness on this issue was a little trying. And I also found it very hard to believe that it took him so long to figure out that Leila and Lily were one and the same woman -- this was one plot gambit that did not really work for me. I think it would have made for far more interesting reading if both Dunstan and the reader got to see the 'two' different Leilas from the very beginning, so that we could all enjoy the contrast between the intelligent and vibrant Leila who was willing to work in the fields in order to realise her dreams, and the sultry drawing room Leila, who used her feminine charms to manipulate people and keep them at a distance. <br />I was also curious about certain circumstances surrounding the Malcolm family.  The Malcolms are an old Scottish family, renowned for producing female children who happen to be gifted with certain magical abilities. The Malcolms are also renowned for making advantageous marriages that further the family's fortunes. And yet, while the inference is that nearly every single marriage seems to have been a happy one, none of the Malcolm women seem to have married for love -- save the heroine of \\"Merely Magic,\\" Nininan. I really wished that Patricia Rice had gone into (a little) what these other Malcolm women must have felt or thought about the whole concept of love, and marriage without love. She does do this with the heroine of \\"Must Be Magic,\\" Leila. But even then what we know is that Leila married in order to promote her family's interests, that her mother has some feeling of love and affection for her father, and that even she (Leila) feels leery about counseling her younger sisters to seek only love matches. I suppose what I'm trying to say is that I was curious as to why a family women with magical gifts would place advantageous marriages over love matches, and would have liked the authour to have delved into this matter a little more.<br />On the other hand, however, \\"Must Be Magic\\" does indeed boast of possessing two very strong, memorable and engaging characters: Leila and Dunstan. When Leila's character was first introduced, I will admit that while I did feel for her because she felt so alienated and had such a low self esteem problem, I did not really take to her -- she was a little too manipulative for my taste. And while I understood why she used her beauty and her feminine allure to get things, I did not admire this trait in her at all. But as the novel progressed, so too did my sympathies for her grow. And in no time at all, I found myself rooting for her to find her hidden talents/magical gift, and to nab the man she believed was her soul mate. Leila, is the kind of full bodied multifaceted heroines that one wishes were more the norm rather than the exception.  As for Dunstan, once I got past his foolish stubbornness and his tendency to glower all the time, there was much to admire and feel empathetic for. It's not every romance hero who as to deal with an alienated son, a murder rap and a strong-minded woman who's out to help you whether you want it or not!<br />Story-wise, things moved along smoothly enough while Leila and Dunstan were in the country, busy with their planting schemes and trying to thwart the machinations of Leila's nephew-in-law and his cohorts. Once the story moved to London, however, the book did loose its focus. There was a sudden addition in the cast as all sorts of Ives and Malcolm relatives came out of the woodwork in order to help Dunstan clear his name, and there even was a small subplot involving a certain Malcolm-Ives potential pairing -- probably the hinting of future Magic book at a later date. I, however, just wanted the mystery of who killed Duncan's wife to be cleared up --I already had my suspicions and wanted to know if I was right!<br />On the whole, \\"Must be Magic\\" was a truly fun read. It's not a book without flaws, but it was an enjoyable read nonetheless. and if you're looking for something little different, this should definitely satisfy.	2002-11-06
1349416:US	52830980	R39XZTRHA0AIWC	0821773925	106348705	Miss Seldon's Suitors (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	a charming and delightful read	I almost didn't buy this book since I hadn't really enjoyed the last few Jeanne Savery Regency novels. But in the end, I'm glad that I did as &quot;Miss Seldon's Suitors&quot; turned out to be a truly charming and delightful read, and is, I think, one of the authour's best efforts yet.<br />Miss Matilda 'Matty' Seldon finds herself in dire straits indeed when an unscrupulous person pretending to be her cousin, steals her meager inheritance and leaves her penniless and stranded in a village where she knows virtually no one. Fortunately for Matty, the vicar of the village comes to her rescue and brings her plight to the attention of Lady Wilmington and a Miss Abigail Abernathy. It is the vicar's hope that the very respectable Lady Wilmington will take pity on Matty and offer her employment and a refuge. Unfortunately (for the vicar) it is not Lady Wilmington who is moved by Matty's circumstances but the very eccentric Miss Abernathy, and she offers Matty a temporary home. Miss Abernathyhas a plan: to try and untangle Matty's affairs and to also promote a match between Matty and a good friend of hers, Charles North. But even the best of plans go slightly awry when unexpected elements come into play. Two of Miss Abernathy's nephews come for a visit, and both seem to have fallen under Matty's spell. Suddenly, kind and sensible Matty Seldon has not one but four suitors, when even the shallow and toadying vicar begins to court her. For any young woman who had thought to remain a spinster all her life, such a surfeit of suitors would be enough to turn anyone's head. But for Matty, there can be only one man for her -- if only she were more worthy of such an excellent and worthy gentleman...<br />I really enjoyed this novel even though things did get a little bogged down in the middle romance wise. Used to thinking of herself as a village vicar's sensible daughter, and not really rating her worth very high, Matty finds it difficult indeed to believe that the gentleman she's fallen for (I'm not going to say which one so as to not spoil things) would actually return her feelings. And since the gentleman concerned has decided that a long and slow courtship where both parties would get to know each other intimately (character-wise) would be best, that whole bit of the novel does take a while to unwind and get resolved. Fortunately, there are other plot gambits to keep things humming, like the episodes that involve the Mr. Collins (from Austen's &quot;Pride and Prejudice&quot;)-like vicar -- Jeanne Savery's splendid portrayal of this character will definitely amuse -- and the subplot involving Miss Abernathy's nephews. Also brilliantly done was the portrayal of the intriguing Miss Abernathy. Who is this woman, and what is her story? We learn some of her history but since there are going to be a few more books in this series, I'm sure that there is still a lot more to learn, and I'm really looking forward to that! Best of all however was the portrayal of Matty and her young man and their romance. Matty Seldon is not one of those feisty and headstrong beauties we've been reading a lot about lately (they're all right, but I'm rather tired of reading about such heroines all the time), but a kind, sensible, intelligent and attractive young woman, and it was a real treat to read about (and empathise with) such a heroine and root for her to have her 'happily ever-after' ending. And I liked the young man that Matty fell in love with matched her so perfectly in character and spirit. No growling and glowering alpha-male here -- I'm a little tired of those as well. So, thank you, Jeanne Savery for this wonderful and heart-warming read.	2002-11-06
1351020:US	52830980	RZQADRGVIPFLG	0821772910	362439045	A Kiss At Midnight (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	a good read	\\"A Kiss at Midnight\\" is the second installment in the fairy tale trilogy by Lynn Collum, and while I believe (from the title) that it is supposed to be based on Sleeping Beauty, it is so loosely based on this fairy tale that you'd be forgiven if you began to wonder if perhaps \\"A Kiss at Midnight\\" was based on some other fairy tale! And while it is a rather sweet little story of how a much threatened young lady is able to escape the threatening clutches of her family thanks to her courage, sense of honour and the efforts of the dashing hero, there are also a few problems with the book.<br />The sudden closing of Mrs. Parson's Academy for Girls coincides with Marquess of Denham's decision to use his beautiful daughter, Rosamund, to dig himself out of debt. For it is the marquess's plan to marry his daughter off to the highest bidder -- in this case the much older and very distasteful Earl of Cherrington. What the marquess had not counted on was his daughter's stubborn nature. Determined to thwart her father's evil scheme, she makes full use of an accident to pretend to be in a deep coma. Only her old nurse, and the handsome new butler, Sterling are in on her pretense. But will this be enough to put a stop to her father's plans to marry her off? In the meantime a very bored Rose is beginning to appreciate and take note of all the care and concern that her handsome butler is showing for her. But even a virtually penniless daughter of a marquess cannot throw her hat at a butler no matter how wonderful he is. Or can she? What Rose doesn't know is that Sterling is actually Garth Sterling Fenton, the eldest son of Viscount Buckleigh, who has been sent (in disguise) to Denham Hall in order to retrieve a family heirloom, the Chalice of Naples. The chalice was stolen from the viscount's London home, and it is believed that the thief was probably Rose's elder brother. Sterling has been dispatched by his family to find the chalice and to liberate it without any fuss and bother.What Sterling did not anticipate was how his feelings for Rose would complicate things. For now he has to add keeping an eye on Rose and trying to help her thwart her father schemes to finding the chalice. And as the days pass, it's beginning to dawn on Sterling that he may have to chose which task lies closest to his heart: Rose or the chalice...<br />The trouble I had with \\"A Kiss at Midnight\\" was that Lynn Collum took such care to develop the background histories and characters of Rose and Sterling, that there really wasn't enough time for Collum to dwell on the supposed romance that was developing between Rose and Sterling. The pacing was also somewhat off towards the end: things were moving about at a moderate pace when things suddenly pick up about three or four chapters from the end -- everything happens almost at once, and several subplots are tied up with remarkable speed in the space of a few pages. Having noted that, I will own that there is an almost fairy tale-like quality to this story, and Rose and Sterling are exactly the kind of hero and heroine that any reader would find easy to take to heart and root for. \\"A Kiss at Midnight\\" may not have been a very 'deep' read, but it did indeed make for a somewhat pleasant one.	2002-11-05
1359721:US	52830980	R8Z60VLTJ0KI3	0743419154	759611923	The Fire Inside	Books	3	2	3	N	N	a good read once you get past the heroine's foolishness	\\"The Fire Inside\\" turned out to be one of those romance novels that managed to both pull me in (and so engage my interest), as well as making me sigh with exasperation. What I liked about the novel was the first two-thirds of the novel which dealt with Clayton's pursuit of Kitt, as well how their relationship developed after their marriage. What exasperated me was Kitt's reckless and foolish behavior throughout the novel. <br />Kassandra 'Kitt' Wentworth, our heroine is supposed to be one of those rebellious free spirit heroines that seem to be all the rage in Regency England right now -- you know the ones that gamble, and dress up as young men in order to be able to do the kinds of things that 'proper' young ladies don't. Part of the reason for her wild and reckless behavior happens to be her hurt at being pushed out of her niche within her own family by her father's much younger and much pampered second wife; another reason is that Kitt suffered from a traumatic experience (which is revealed third way into the book) that has really scarred her. But mostly it's because Kitt is headstrong, stubborn and believes in her right to act as she chooses. As such, Kitt is a rather complex character, with quite a few sides to her. So, it should have been easy to take to her and to see things from her point of view. Unfortunately, for the first third of the book, she comes across as a sniveling reckless brat instead. ... And foolish heroines are not admirable at all, no matter what anyone says. And that she never ever actually got into any kind of real trouble (save being discovered by both her father and Clay) just beggared belief! <br />And then, just as I was about to give up on \\"The Fire Inside\\" completely, Kitt changed. With her marriage to Clay, and his easy acceptance of her concerns and his care for her safety and well being, Kitt became a the mature and engaging heroine that she was obviously meant to be -- until that it she started obsessing about the probability ofClay's being unfaithful to her. Where this notion came from and why she was so sure that he would betray her bewildered me. I mean, here was a historical romance hero who, contrary to alpha-male mold, is patient and understanding about his wife's fear of sexual relations, and actually waits for her to indicate she is ready to embark on a sexual relationship with him. This was when I became really sure that Clay, who turned out to be a rather decent Regency romance hero, deserved better. And that feeling never went away, even with the 'all's well that ends well' ending.<br />Another thing that niggled was the entire matter of Clay's inheritance. Without giving anything away, I'll only note that I'm fairly sure that what happens could not have taken place in actuality in early 19th century England -- aristocratic titles cannot be willed off willy-nilly at someone's whim, and not within a two week period anyway. <br />On the whole, \\"The Fire Inside\\" was saved from being a total loss because of Clay Harcourt. Kitt's behavior was consistently illogical, but since I've come to associate illogical behavior with feisty heroines, I didn't feel too shortchanged. An engaging 3 star read.	2002-10-29
1363808:US	52830980	R3JOC4XI7ZDU2I	0821773852	496637974	Tender the Storm (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	2	20	27	N	N	not a very romantic read at all	Sometimes my family teases me unmercifully because I happen to be a feminist who enjoys reading Regency romance novels. Well, even feminists need to (sometimes) escape into a realm full of romantic make-believe, where the heroine (in spite of the odds) wins the heart of the dashing hero, and where romance hero not only leaves you weak at the knees but also doesn't inspire you to commit acts of violence. Unfortunately, the hero of \\"Tender the Storm\\" (Rolfe Brockford, the Marquis of Rivard) turned to be exactly the kind of hero that inspires a headache, and leaves you wishing he'd fallen into a hole somewhere and was never rescued.<br />\\"Tender the Storm\\" was first published in the early 1990s, and is the first novel in a trilogy that follows the adventures and fortunes of three French aristocratic siblings during the French Revolution. This first installment deals with Zoe, the youngest of the Deveraux siblings, who flees France, in the company of our hero (who is part of a network that rescues innocents from the guillotine) disguised as a school girl. From the very beginning Rolfe is attracted Zoe, but deciding that she is a young unsullied innocent and not for him, tries to put her from his mind. A couple of months later, however, Rolfe runs across Zoe in London, and makes it point to reacquaint himself with her. Unfortunately, because of his attentions Zoe becomes the object of the betting books when everyone starts betting on how long it will be before she ends up becoming Rolfe's mistress: Rolfe, you see, happens to have the reputation of a shameless rake. Angry, and determined to salvage Zoe's honour, Rolfe proposes marriage to Zoe. And she, because she's totally in love with her dashing rescuer, accepts happily. Unfortunately, instead of the happily ever-after ending Zoe was looking for, she has put up with being an abandoned and ignored bride, who is left in the country with an incredibly hostile mother-in-law, while her husband cavorts in town. (Rolfe's thinks that his wife is too young for marital relationships and has decided to keep his mistress until Zoe is 'ready' to be his wife.) How will Zoe cope? Well, what Zoe does next definitely sets the cats among the pigeons as Rolfe discovers that he will have to fight to regain his wife's trust and affections...<BR> <BR>Whether or not you enjoy this novel is going to depend on just how sympathetic you find Rolfe. Actually, he's starts off rather well, and is portrayed as being intelligent, daring and terribly efficient. It's only after he's married to Zoe that he suddenly becomes an incredibly selfish and autocratic oaf. I was not surprised by Zoe's actions at all. I only wondered why it took her so long! But if Rolfe made me feel bilious for much of the book, he made me nauseous in the manner in which he dealt with his (errant) wife once he caught up with her. I mean to actually bed her in spite of her protests to the contrary (all right she did succumb in the end, but it still made for uncomfortable reading, and did read like marital rape to me) in order to assert his authority over her? Either you must bend to my will or I will break you -- Rolfe warns Zoe. This is supposed to be romantic? Either my understanding of romance and love is in error, or else someone somewhere finds such scenes to be really erotically titillating! Our hero (or the authour) obviously never read Chaucer's \\"The Wife of Bath's Tale\\" or else the lesson never hit home. As for the heroine of this (very dated piece), Zoe Deveraux, while I rather liked her, I did long to shake some sense into the woman when she kept forgiving the caveman she had married and allowed him to run rough shod over her feeling and good sense.<br />In my opinion, a romance hero shouldn't behave like Rolfe at all. And I know that I'm not alone in this since I've come across a great many books where the hero is not only debonair and dashing but also displays a level of sensitivity that I've found to be rather attractive and very romantic. And I rather wished that along with the decision to republish this novel, an editor somewhere had suggested that bits of the novel be rewritten as well. In my opinion, \\"Tender the Storm,\\" is not a very romantic read at all.	2002-10-25
1371427:US	52830980	R2TIA2TJ954W96	0892967714	206344772	A Body in the Bathhouse	Books	4	7	10	N	N	an entertaining read	I really cannot fathom why there are so many negative reactions to Lindsey Davis's latest Falco mystery novel. I read for amusement. And all I demand from a mystery novel (or any other kind of novel for that matter) is that it possess a plot-line that snares my interest (good story line with a few twists and turns, excellent plot development, a few well depicted red herring suspects, and a protagonist that I can take to). Failing that, I'll settle for a novel that entertains and that charms and piques my interest. And as far as I'm concerned, this latest Falco adventure, \\"A Body in the Bathhouse,\\" does both in spades. Harriet Klausner has already written a rather good plot synopsis, so I'm going to stick to making my case for why I liked this book very much, and why I think it is a good read. <br />It is true that there is that whole chunk in the middle of the novel that deals with the building project of the Briton High King's palace, but I did not find these bits to be tedious or tiresome at all. After all, Falco had been asked by Vespasian to sniff around and see if the builders were trying to defraud the Empire by padding costs and stealing building material. And I thought that Davis did a rather excellent job of bringing to life the colourful characters involved with this project. So, I saw these bits as a kind of setting of the stage and tone for plot -- for giving the book a kind of 'feel' and atmosphere so to speak. As such, I didn't see these chapters as a distracting and tiresome, but necessary to the development of certain plot themes. Another example of what some may consider as trivial distractions, but which I rather enjoy, is the personal stories of certain series regulars that Davis has been developing over the past few books. Characters such as Falco's sister, the fetching widow Maia, and her relationship with Petro, Falco's best friend. What will happen there? Will their relationship move forward or will it deteriorate because of the part Petro paid in getting her out of Rome and out of Anacrites (her vindictive stalker)'s way? I also wanted to know how things would pan out between Aelianus and Justinus. (By the way, a previous reviewer got it wrong. Aelianus and Justinus are Helena's, Falco's wife, younger brothers, and not his cousins). Both young men have tagged along to Britain in order to 'help' Falco with his twin tasks of investigating the case of possible graft, and of locating Glaucuc and Cotta. The relationship between the two brothers however is practically nonexistent, esp since Justinus had eloped earliar with Aelianus's fiance (chronicled in two previous Falco adventures, \\"Three Hands in a Fountain\\" & \\"Two for the Lions.\\") Currently however Justinus, his wife and Aelianus, are all living with Helena's parents, and both young men are working for Falco as his assistants -- a very volatile situation indeed. Will the brothers cry pax and become friends again? What impact would Justinus's spell away from his new wife have on his marriage? And will Aelianus ever find his niche in the scheme of things? (I'll admit to having developed a sneaking affection for Helena's least liked brother). So that while the mystery at hand may not have been one of Davis's more stellar efforts, the need to know how things would pan out for all these characters had me fairly devouring the book in one go.<br />As I've already stated, I read for entertainment. And \\"A Body in the Bathhouse\\" definitely entertained. The author maintained her sharp, witty and droll prose style from beginning to end, expertly and with ease. I wish I could write so well. Truthfully speaking, I may not be the best person to give an unbiased review of Lindsey Davis's work since I firmly believe her to be a rather phenomenal writer. But, I really did enjoy this mystery novel very much. It may not be a very complex and clever murder mystery, and it may not have kept me guessing about the outcome of things to the very end, but it definitely engaged myinterest. I also didn't find Davis's style to have become studied, trite or tiresome. And she certainly doesn't need lessons from anyone on how to write a good story. My final opinion: the book is a good read; and if you're leery about spending so much on a book that may or may not live up to your expectations, well, there is always the library. Because, truth to tell, I really do think that this is a book that no one should miss.	2002-10-19
1380031:US	52830980	R4UYLO7HTHRCC	0451207114	528394630	The Captain's Secret (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	a good 3 1/2 star read	Generally speaking, Jenna Mindel's &quot;The Captain's Secret&quot; is not the kind of Regency romance I'd usually pick up to read. I prefer reading about older romance heroines as I'm currently at the stage where I find it a little difficult to fully enter into all the emotional angst that a teenage heroine would (usually) experience/feel. However, since I'd had rather enjoyed &quot;Labour of Love,&quot; the prequel of sorts to &quot;The Captain's Secret,&quot; I thought I'd give this novel a go. And, on the whole, I found it to be a rather enjoyable and engaging read.<br />Three years ago, Susannah Lacey met and fell in love with Captain Winston Jeffries while he was home for a brief respite from the war. And even though the captain had extracted a promise from her not to wait for him to return, and for her to have her London season and to meet other eligible matrimonial prospects, Susannah was certain that she had met her soul mate and the love of her life in Winston Jeffries. She was 16 years old then. Now she's 19, finally having her season, and has firmly resolved to put Winston Jeffries behind her, esp since she's heard nothing from him in almost two years. Imagine her shock then when she sees him at theatre, in good and sound health the very night she's decided to get on with her life!<br />Ever since he had been convalesced out of active duty, Winston Jeffries has been working for Lord Castlereagh at the Foreign Office; and he has put aside all his dreams and desires of romance and Susannah behind him. All he wants now is to do a good enough job for Castlereagh so that he will recommend Winston favourably for a posting to India. Winston's latest mission is to court the season's current Incomparable, Miss Caroline Dunsford, so that he will be able to discover if her father, a politician of some note, is a traitor. A seemingly simple enough task. Except that Winston never expected to do his pretend courting under Susannah's nose. Or to find that the enchanting young girl he had left behind had grown into a very beautiful and compelling young lady. However, no matter his own private inclinations or the pain that he would undoubtedly cause Susannah, Winston is determined to do his duty by King and country. But Susannah has other ideas. And with the help of her rival for Winston's attention and affections (Caroline Dunsford, who hopes to net the affections of quite another gentleman), Susannah has every hope of finally bagging her man -- if he will cooperate, that is.<br />&quot;The Captain's Secret&quot; proved to be quite the engrossing read. I thought that Jenna Mindel did an excellent job in conveying all of Susannah's feelings of despair, hope and frustration. Especially well done were the chapters in which Susannah had to face the fact that Winston was quite serious about leaving England, and how this clashes completely with her desire to remain in England and close to her sister forever. Also nicely done were the bits where Susannah and Caroline Dunsford join forces and try to help each other with their respective courtships. This plot device contrived to give the novel a slightly more lighthearted tone as well as to give refreshingly different slant to the book -- not too many authours make potential romantic rivals friends, and I rather enjoyed this twist. Also nicely done was the second half of the book which dealt with things from Winston's perspective. Here is where we learn why and how he became an agent for the Crown, and of the things he's had to do -- deeds that still haunt him and makes him feel unworthy of Susannah. Jenna Mindel really shows her mettle here, and especially so in the manner in which she forces Susannah to come to grips with this aspect of Winston's life and how she would fit into the scheme of things if she still decides to tie her fate with his.<br />On the whole, &quot;The Captain's Secret&quot; was a really good read. There is an absence of girlish high-jinks and drawing room romps -- but then this novel was not that kind of book at all. Rather, &quot;The Captain's Secret&quot; dwelt more on how two young ladies, who were sure of what they wanted, and who were willing to stick out the course, did what they needed to do in order to obtain the men of their dreams. And if you like romance novels about decisive heroines, than this is definitely the book for you. A good 3 1/2 star read.	2002-10-11
1380107:US	52830980	R2INJ0TTB1GHC6	0425185028	717738797	The Torso in the Town (Fethering Mysteries)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	the best of the series, so far...	Of the three Feathering mysteries so far, I liked &quot;The Torso in the Town&quot; best. And not because the mystery at hand was a more complex or intriguing one that had me breathlessly turning the pages until I reached the denouncement at the end of the book, but rather because of the three, this was the one in which we get to really appreciate the differing personalities of Carole Seldon and Jude, as well as to appreciate the friendship that has sprung up between them. <br />Carole Seldon is suffering from the after effects of the end of her love affair with pub owner, Ted Crisp, and she's depressed. And she's also begun to slide back to her former reclusive and reserved ways; enough so that her friend and neighbour, Jude, is quite concerned about her. So that when at a dinner party at Pelling House (in Fedborough, a neighbouring town to Feathering), the discovery of a mummified torso is made in the basement of the house, Jude naturally feels that the solving of this latest mystery is exactly what Carole needs in order to work her way out of her depression. Trying to figure the identity of the torso, when the body was secreted in the basement, and who the possible murderer could be is a sure fire way to get anyone out of the doldrums. And thanks to Jude's relationship with the current owners of Pelling House, and Carole's tenuous one with one of the previous owners, the pair are sure that they will make some headway in figuring out who killed whom and why...<br />&quot;The Torso in the Town&quot; proved to be a really enjoyable read. The joy to be gleaned from this novel, however, was not from the mystery at hand. On the whole, the mystery took quite a while to unfold, and Jude and Carole did spend a lot of time circling around the same few points over and over again. No, the joy to be gleaned form this novel came from the manner in which Simon Brett brought the character and flavour of these two small river towns, and all the colourful characters that inhabitedthem to life. I especially enjoyed Brett's social commentary on the changing times and the petty preoccupations and foibles of several characters. But what I enjoyed most (and what really pulled this novel together) was watching Jude's and Carole's friendship deepen and grow stronger, and watching Carole &quot;thaw&quot; out of her rigid mold. <br />For mystery buffs who enjoy samll town cozies, &quot;The Torso in the Town&quot; is a read that should not be missed.	2002-10-11
1385367:US	52830980	RK6B06AP4XZI3	0451207319	480985351	The Storybook Hero (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	a 5 star read in spite of the lapses in modernisms	I never thought that I could like anything written by Andrea Pickens more than I did &quot;A Lady of Letters&quot; or &quot;A Code of Honor,&quot; but it's beginning to look as if my favourite Andrea Pickens Regency romance novel is going to be &quot;The Storybook Hero.&quot; <br />When Miss Octavia Hadley first meets Alexander Sheffield, while on board a ship bound for Russia, his behaviour is such that she puts him down as being a rogue and a drunk. Because of a rather nasty episode involving her cousin's husband, Octavia has been forced to take up the post of governess to the ward of a British diplomat (12 year old Emma) currently stationed in Moscow. And in spite of the danger of an impending war, as France shifts her focus to Russia, such are Octavia's circumstances that this is a post she cannot afford to ignore or loose (for that matter). And the last thing that Octavia has time for is a drunken rake. Who would have thought that a few weeks after she had formed so unfavourable an impression of Alexander that she would be dependent on him to help her get Emma out of Russia? <br />Alexander Sheffield, on the other hand, is on his way to Russia in order to rescue his young cousin, Nicholas, from the machinations of an unscrupulous uncle. And while he fully expected for his venture to be fraught with hardship and danger (what with trying to evade a murderous uncle and the French army), the last thing he expected was to have to include Octavia and Emma in his plans. But no gentleman would leave two friendless ladies to fend for themselves in such hostile conditions. And Alexander finds that, rogue that he is, he is esp reluctant to allow the redoubtable and plucky Octavia to face everything by herself. Thus begins the adventure that will change four lives forever as Octavia, Emma, Alexander and Nicholas face the bleak Russian countryside in winter, unfriendly natives, murderous thugs and the French army, in their bid to make it to the St. Petersburg ports. However, while both Octavia and Alexander are fairly sanguine about the dangers that they will face, neither of them is quite sure with what to do about the attraction that seems to have flared up between them. Can a care-for-all rake find happiness with an independent-minded and intelligent governess? And will the foursome make it to safety for that matter? Or will Nicholas's uncle's thugs stop them before they reach St. Petersburg?<br />Once in a while, you come across a romance novel that satisfies on nearly every level. And &quot;The Storybook Hero&quot; does just that. The story was a wonderful, exciting and poignant one; and the characters were brilliant. Who could not care for intelligent, courageous and compassionate Octavia? I rather liked Andrea Pickens's portrayal of Alexander as well -- he was a good mix of the angst-ridden hero (with his own inner demons) and the charming and clever flirt. Octavia's and Alexander's romance was allowed to unfold rather well also -- with each coming to recognise and understand the many facets of the other's character and to appreciate them fully. This, was what made the novel all the more satisfying to read. I did however have one quibble: and that was that at times the language used became very, very modern. Why did no one (the editors) catch this? It really is a shame that such an excellent novel was not edited properly.<br />On the whole however, in spite of the modern phrases here and there, &quot;The Storybook Hero&quot; turned out to be a really excellent read -- it's a wonderful mix of adventure and romance, well worth the 5 star rating, and is a read that definitely should not be missed.v	2002-10-07
1387464:US	52830980	R10FX1DIOPZS5X	0451207203	488790082	Duel of Hearts	Books	5	8	8	N	N	an amusing and fun read	\\"Duel of Hearts\\" is one of the most amusing romance novels I've read in a long time. In fact the plot and the characters found in the, \\"Duel of Hearts\\" reminded me strongly of similar novels written by one of my favourite Regency romance authours, Marion Chesney. <br />When Delilah Chadwick, the only daughter of Sir Horace Chadwick, receives news that her father is about to marry, the dismayed young lady immediately jumps the conclusion that her father is being manipulated into marriage by an unscrupulous harpy. (Being a tad spoilt and headstrong young lady, and being totally used to running the lives of all those around her, thinking of her father as a used dupe is the only way in which she can currently cope with the notion that her father would choose to marry again after so many years of being a widower.) And so, Lilah decides to immediately make for London, in order to stop her father from making the mistake of his life.<br />Rich, autocratic and used-to-always-having-things-his-own-way Adam Harlestone, the ninth Earl of Drakesley, had always assumed that he would marry his plain and unassuming cousin, Eugenia, when the time was right. The last thing he expected was to receive intelligence that Eugenia (who is in London for the Season) is being pursued by a gentleman old enough to be her father. Sure that his cousin is need of his protection, he decides to make for London in order to salvage her honour. Unexpectedly, however, Drakesley runs into Eugenia's supposed seducer's daughter on the road. And after the initial barbed exchanges (which are truly quite amusing), the pair discover that they have a goal in common -- extracting their loved ones from the predicament they seem currently find themselves in. And so these two incredibly forceful and spoilt individuals come to an agreement: to put an end to this engagement between Sir Horace and Eugenia that neither Lilah or Drakesley approve of. What happens next is something neither Lilah nor Drakesley anticipated. For Lilah finds to her dismay that the incredibly high-handed and autocratic Drakesley would suit her down to a tee! And while Drakesley finds Lilah very spoilt and stubborn, he also finds her to be very enchanting and tantalising. Will Drakesley and Lilah give up on their plans to break up Sir Horace and Eugenia? And will they decide to pursue the volatile attraction that seems to be growing between them? And then of course there is Eugenia -- an extremely intelligent young lady who sees and understands a lot more than she lets on...<br />I don't think I've smiled so much while reading one book. \\"Duel of Hearts\\" was definitely a fun read. The plot, while a rather well known one with few deviations, thanks to Diane Farr's brilliant handling still seemed fresh and interesting. I loved the manner in which she developed both the plot (the bits where both Lilah and Drakesley try to 'talk' sense to Eugenia) and the romance that was simmering between Drakesley and Lilah. Especially brilliant, however, was the manner in which she brought the characters of Drakesley, Lilah, Eugenia, and a few other minor characters to life -- the changes to Lilah's character, the manner in which her character in particular begins to change and mature, was esp satisfying. If I have any quibbles with this novel, it's that there wasn't enough of Sir Horace and Eugenia. Seeing their story unfold as a backdrop to Drakesley and Lilah's would have been really nice. And I suppose I would have preferred it if Diane Farr had been a little more ironic about Drakesley and Lilah -- a la Marion Chesney. But these are just minor quibbles, not at all to be taken too seriously.<br />All in all, \\"Duel of Hearts\\" is a superb read, and deserves both a lot of rave reviews and a 5 star rating.	2002-10-05
1388405:US	52830980	R30OISCGZTLWIU	0821772384	487026985	A Christmas Blessing (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	a Regency Christmas Carol	Whether or not \\"A Christmas Blessing\\" strikes a chord with you is going to depend heavily on just how attached you are to Charles Dickens's \\"A Christmas Carol.\\" <br />The death of his faithless wife has turned Lucas Chandler, the Earl of Lyons, into a cold and reclusive being. And even though it's been a year since her death, the earl still leads a solitary life, forsaking friends and family, and literally ignoring his young daughter, Annabelle. But things are about to change for the earl, and the catalyst for this change comes in the form of a young war widow, Elinor Browning. Feeling that Annabelle needs the guiding hand of a woman, the earl's family inveigles him to hire Elinor as Annabelle's governess. Little does the earl expect how much Elinor will shake up and change his life forever.<br />Left penniless by her husband's death, and with a young 4 year old son to raise, Elinor is determined to earn enough money so that she can provide for her son instead on relying on her richer relations. And the post of being governess to the earls' daughter could mean the end of all her monetary woes. But the situation at the earl's London home fills her with unease. The house is like a tomb -- cold and cheerless. And the earl seems to have no interest whatsoever for his affection starved daughter. And with Christmas just around the corner, and the staff about to mutiny unless the Christmas festivities are observed this year, Elinor realises just how much her work is cut out for her! In spite of the stubborn earl, Elinor is determined to get him to notice his daughter, to shed his gloomy ways and to take joy in life again. Who will succeed in this clash of wills? Will Elinor get the earl to see the error of his ways? Stir in a couple of ghosts and a few well meaning relatives, and perhaps a frozen and resentful heart will actually thaw thanks to the love and acceptance of a warm and understanding young woman...<br />Maria Greene does an excellent job of taking a familiar plot (\\"A Christmas Carol\\") and making it uniquely hers. I liked the manner in which she slowly allowed for the earl's character to gradually change and to let go of all his old grievances and hurts. It made the transformation all the more believable. I also liked the slow manner in which the romance between the earl and Elinor unfolded as well. Elinor and the earl were perfect foils for each other. True, all this took place over a few weeks, but the pacing was such that all these developments and changes were credible and made sense. And while I did find myself agreeing with the earl about the unnecessary hysteria that the Christmas season seems to engender, I will admit that \\"A Christmas Blessing\\" did make for a cheery and festive read.	2002-10-04
1388471:US	52830980	R2OAMBV42AMK2Y	0821771760	345513720	A Rather Necessary End	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Finally: a Regency mystery-romance worth raving about	\\"A Rather Necessary End\\" is the first in a projected series featuring the detecting adventures of Lady Priscilla Flanders and her friend, Sir Neville Hathaway. And if the future novels in this series turn out to be as good as this one, mystery fans who also happen to be aficionados to the Regency period can look forward to intriguing and engrossing reads down the road.<br />Lady Priscilla Flanders (the widow of the universally loved vicar of Stonehall-on-Sea)'s well ordered world suffers a severe tilting when, early one evening, she finds the Duke of Meresden dead in her garden, his head bashed in. But if that was not horrifying enough, the knowledge that the village constable considers her to be the prime suspect in the duke's murder would be enough to send most women scurrying to their beds for solace. Fortunately, Lady Priscilla is made of sterner stuff. And she's determined to clear her name, protect her children and discover the identity of the real murderer. And together with her good friend, Sir Neville Hathaway, she sets out to do this. Unfortunately the clues are short on the ground. And save for the slightly suspicious behaviour of the late duke's son and heir, suspects are in short supply as well. Add to that the headache of having her meddlesome aunt descend on her, threatening to remove her children from her 'scandalous' household, and things look truly bleak indeed. And then another worthy villager is attacked. and finally Lady Priscilla begins to see a glimmer at what may be at the heart of the murder and threats...<br />\\"A Rather Necessary End\\" was a real treat for me to read. Finally a good mystery novel that also possesses an intelligent, engaging and grown up heroine! Thank you, Jo Ann Ferguson. \\"A Rather Necessary End\\" possesses a rather interesting and intriguing storyline. And the authour tells the story in such a tantalising way that I just had to finish the book in one go. While there are a few twists and turns in the mystery plot, this bookis not one of those mystery novels where clues are strewn all over the place so that the reader can try to solve the mystery as the novel unfolds. (But I found that I didn't mind this very much). And while the identity of the murderer became fairly obvious after a while, the motive behind the murder and assaults remained a tantalising mystery till the very end.<br />Romance-wise, some readers may be a little disappointed that the romance between Lady Priscilla and Sir Neville Hathaway remains a rather muted motif even to the very end. However, since this is to be a series, I do think that everyone can take heart that the romance between these two will come to the fore as the series progresses. <br />\\"A Rather Necessary End\\" turned out to be a truly brilliant and enjoyable read, and one that should not be missed.	2002-10-04
1390113:US	52830980	R2DVEWHF9K63RZ	0373292309	634064065	The Blanchland Secret	Books	3	7	8	N	N	'hero' made me feel bilious	For me, &quot;The Blanchland Secret&quot; proved to be a rather frustrating read. On the one hand, the plot was a truly nifty one -- the hunt for a missing young girl who was last seen walking up the avenue to Blanchland, an estate that has a very notorious reputation -- and I even liked quite a few of the characters in the novel, most esp Miss Sarah Sheridan, the heroine of this romance novel. But the 'hero' of the novel was, unfortunately, a real piece of work -- I don't think I've ever ground my teeth so much while reading one book!<br />Because Sarah's family lost all their money, and because her elder brother is dead, Miss Sarah Sheridan is now a poor relation. Fortunately for her, however, she has been taken in by her richer and slightly older cousin, Lady Amelia Fenton. And both ladies now live in Bath, leading comfortable and somewhat quiet lives. All this changes when two things almost simultaneously occur. The first is that Sarah receives a posthumous letter from her dead brother, asking her to help his illegitimate daughter if she should ever need it. And it would seem that the young lady (Miss Olivia Meredith) concerned definitely needs help. (Though we're not told why she needs help at this point.) And in spite of the fact that Sarah will have to return to Blanchland, once her home and which has (unfortunately) just recently gained a very scandalous reputation for debauchery, Sarah is determined to do whatever possible to help this niece she never knew she had, despite the public censure she's bound to receive for going to Blanchland.<br />In the meantime Sarah has also become reacquainted with an old neighbour, her godfather's son Viscount Renshaw. And while Renshaw has a reputation of being a hardened flirt, Sarah cannot help the attraction she feels for him. But when Renshaw discovers that she means to go to Blanchland, he immediately jumps to the conclusion that she's a lady with some extremely light morals and treats her accordingly. Heartbroken and angry, Sarah decides to put the painful episode behind her and concentrate on helping Olivia. What she didn't expect was for a remorseful Renshaw to pursue her and force her to accept his help. And while Sarah is willing to accept Renshaw's help, she cannot help but sense that she shouldn't trust him completely. Why is Renshaw looking for Olivia, and what are his intention towards her niece? These are the questions that haunt Sarah even as she realises, to her dismay, that she has fallen in love with Renshaw...<br />As I've already stated, the story is a rather interesting one; and Nicola Cornick does a really good job of 'fleshing' out both the primary characters (like Sarah) and secondary characters (like Lady Amelia and Sir Ralph Covell, Sarah's notorious cousin). There were even a few humourous incidents that are bound to elicit a chuckle or two. So, all in all, I should have loved this book. Alas, the 'hero' gave me a headache. He spent a great deal of time berating Sarah for not being open and honest with him, and yet he keeps from her the real reason why he's searching for Olivia. Obviously no one ever talked to him about double standards! Another thing that irritated was Renshaw's treatment of Sarah. After the entirely painful incident in which he insults her and then has to ask for her forgiveness, he beings to act as if nothing terrible ever occurred, and reverts to teasing her and flirting with her, and forcibly kissing her every now and then. Very little remorse from this gentleman, and obviously the thought that he should try to earn her esteem and trust (after having bungled things so very badly) never occurs to him! Renshaw is the kind of single-minded, imperious, autocratic lord that one just wishes would fall into a deep hole somewhere. Though I'll admit that by making Renshaw so very high-handed, the authour was able to depict with great skill the confusion that Sarah feels over being so very attracted to a man she does no fully trust. And that aspect of the novel made &quot;The Blanchland Secret&quot; a very compelling read indeed.<br />I had very mixed feeling about this book. I liked many aspects of it, but the 'hero' was so flawed that I just couldn't enter into the 'thank-goodness-they-worked-everything-out' feeling. On the whole: a good story even if the romance left something to be desired.	2002-10-02
1393187:US	52830980	R1QXRNNGS3F4IQ	1590580109	439852412	Black Gold (Anne Cartier Mysteries)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a brillant and exciting read	I loved \\"Black Gold.\\" The storyline was an engrossing and interesting one, and the pacing was excellent. And best of all, the novel took place in late 18th century Bath -- one of my favourite cities!<br />There were many apsects of this novel that I really liked. For example, even though we know from the very beginning who the villain(s) of the piece is, Captain Fritzroy (wanted for the assault and rape of Paul's cousin, Sophie), the authour tells the story in such a way that really keeps you guessing about how things will pan out. And the manner in which the authour paced things was truly brilliant -- the tension just never let up. Events unfolded at a swift and breathneck pace -- from the very moment Anne enters the Rogers's home, and we come to realise (almost at once) that there's something terribly wrong going on at the Rogers's home, through all the twists and turns in the plot, to the very denouncement -- I was so engrossed with what was going on that I stayed up all night to finish the book! <br />The development of the characters -- from the seemingly bluff and hearty Sir Harry Rogers to his beautiful and cunning wife (who also happens to be full of secrets) to the kindly and much used black servant, Jeff -- was very well done too. And they really came to life (with all their foibles and strengths) before my eyes. And I also rather liked the authour's depiction of 18th century Bath, from its architecture to its many social conventions. These descriptions served as a wonderful backdrop to the unfolding story at hand. And while I did think that Charles O' Brien had done a rather good job of painting both the inequities and the inhumanity of the slave trade, as well as giving us a thumbnail idea of what the people of 18th century England/Bath felt about the slave trade, the efforts of the Quakers to put a stop to this trade (or at best thwart the schemes of the slave owners), as well as going a little into the hopes as desires of the black people concerned (Jeff and his lady friend, Sarah), I did wish that he had gone into this matter a little more. This was a rather painful and important bit of history, not much discussed in English history, and it would have been nice if there had been more exposition. Central to all this, of course, is the developing romance between Paul and Anne. Both characters are evenly matched in courage, intelligence and inner strength and are perfect foils for each other. And you can just tell that theirs will be a relationship that will stand the tests of time and events.<br />All in all, \\"Black Gold\\" is a wonderfully engrossing and exciting read that should not be missed.	2002-09-30
1394244:US	52830980	R1NLW3114P3Z62	0821772899	453126867	A Matchmaker's Christmas (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	a poignant and memorable read	When her beloved husband died 20 years ago, a heartbroken Lady Elizabeth Bournard retired to Yorkshire to live the rest of her life in retirement. Now, however, as she finally faces her mortality, she chafes at her noninvolvement with life, and firmly resolves to do something commendable before she finally passes on. And what Lady Elizabeth has decided to do is to host a Christmas party so that she can play matchmaker and promote a few matches. For example, a little worried about the future of her companion, Beatrice Copland, Lady Elizabeth has decided to promote a match between her godson, the distinguished politician Sir David Chappell, and Beatrice; and Lady Elizabeth just knows that Mark Rowland, the great-nephew of her oldest friend would make an excellent match for Verity Allen, a cousin from Canada. <br />What Lady Elizabeth has not counted on however, is that her victims would have their own desires, needs, fears and resolutions. Verity Allen for example, has no desire to marry an Englishman, and wants desperately to return to Canada. While Mark Rowland, a vicar, finds Verity and her free and easy ways not at all to his taste, and only has eyes for another young lady. And as for Beatrice Copland, well she shares a rather dark secret that involves the dashing politician, and she'd rather not deal with either her painful past or Sir David Chappell if she can help it! Whith all this swirling emotions, does the Christmas house party have any hope of being a success? Will Lady Elizabeth's machinations bear fruit? Or will the independently minded younger people prevail?<br />Story-wise this is a really interesting and engrossing read. Donna Simpson does a wonderful job of bringing all the characters of \\"A Christmas Matchmaker\\" to life. And the book is a really good example of how one does not need an evil or unlikeable character to keep things humming. On the other hand, if you're looking for a really romantic read, full the does-(s)he-dosen't-(s)he-motif, you should be aware that there is actually not that much of this, as \\"A Matchmaker's Christmas\\" is a character driven novel, that focuses more on how each character develops and grows before our eyes. Not that I minded at all! To the contrary, reading \\"A Matchmaker's Christmas\\" was (for me anyway) very much like indulging in a tasteful and elegant romance novel for adults (without all the sighing and tears). The characters were all real and engaging with all their little strengths and foibles, the story was a truly nifty and compelling one, and the plot unfolded smoothly and flawlessly, and was really evocative of the period. All in all, \\"A Matchmaker's Christmas\\" turned out to be a poignant and memorable read not to be missed.	2002-09-29
1394998:US	52830980	RO8E0FJVSJL6M	0821773747	4975068	A Proper Marriage (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	a good 3 1/2 star read	This latest Debbie Raleigh trilogy is certainly something out if the ordinary in that it deals with troubled marriages. Regency romance novels are usually about the finding of a husband or a wife, and very rarely do they deal with the trials and tribulations of a young and unhappily married couple. But that's what this trilogy is all about and that's what makes this Marriage trilogy something really special, and worth reading.<br />Adam and Adele (Addy) Drake are deeply unhappy in their marriage. Both from the same small village; though because of their circumstances, it looks as if both rarely came into contact with the other prior to their marriage. Adam happens to come from a very distinguished and proper family, while Addy (unfortunately) comes from a rather ramshackle and scandalous one. And when Addy's father looses most of his money gambling, everyone decides that it would be best if Adam and Addy make a match of it, esp since theirs was a match already arranged by both their grandfathers many years ago. Unfortunately, Adam, who works at the War Office and shudders at the very thought of scandal, saw fit to begin his marriage with a lecture to his wife on the kind of behaviour he expected from her! <br />Already bitterly unhappy that she has been forced to marry where she had no inclination, Addy's anger and resentment knows no bounds at Adam's attempts to bind and restrict her. And the gall of the man to actually lecture her as if she's some kind of recalcitrant child that needs supervision all the time! The up short to all this is that a rather icy atmosphere has descended onto the household, with Addy trying to avoid Adam as much as possible. And Adam who thought he was doing the right thing by giving Addy a hint of his expectations of her, now realises that he's beginning to miss the vibrant and lively Addy he used to know. But it's too late to undo the damage already done. Or is it? Fortunately for both Adam and Addy, their village vicar has decided to interfere. And with the help of this gentle, wise and whimsical man, there may be hope that both the Drakes discover that theirs is a marriage that was meant to be and worth treasuring...<br />I think that what Debbie Raleigh is really good at is giving us characters we really come to care about. She did this with the Rose trilogy and the Creswell Sisters trilogy, and she does this again with \\"A Proper Marriage.\\" Both Adam and Addy are easily recognisable types and are easy to identify with. Neither character is totally blameless about the straits they find themselves in, and the authour does a really good job of showing us this as well as the grievances that both parties justifiably (and unjustifiably for that matter) feel. At the same time, Debbie Raleigh also manages to make both Adam and Addy sympathetic enough that it is easy to root for them to work out their problems and find happiness with each other. However, while Adam and Addy are undoubtedly the hero and heroin of this novel, the star of \\"A Proper Marriage\\" is very definitely the very gentle, wise and wily vicar, Vicar Humbly. And I'm really looking forward to the other books in this trilogy so that I can reacquaint myself with this delightful character.<br />\\"A Proper Marriage\\" is a rather enjoyable 3 1/2 star read (the plot is a rather basic and straight forward one with few surprises), that most would definitely appreciate.	2002-09-28
1401839:US	52830980	R2NSWXY8R64THD	1582342695	304564263	How to Cook a Tart	Books	3	3	5	N	N	sensual food descriptions make this a must read book	The scrumptious manner in which the authour describes the food/dishes and ingredients in itself is enough to make this book a worthwhile read.<br />The plot is a rather basic one. Jasmine March, a cookbook authour of Rubenesque proportions loves food: eating, creating, cooking -- she even dreams about food. And even though her life is far from ideal -- her only daughter has decided to go on strike and to eat as little as possible, and her acting teacher husband has more or less stopped really talking and sharing with her, her love for food and creating new and delectable dishes (full of butter and cream) has kept her going all this while. But her world is about to fall apart. She discovers that she's about to be dropped by her publishers -- apparently low calorie diets are the in thing and nobody is buying Jasmine's cook books. Jasmine, however, is not about to take things lying down. She's come up with an audacious plan of attack that will (perhaps) get her career back on track. And she's determined to see the plan through. After all, what has she to loose? Will Jasmine succeed in putting her career back on track? And what of her anorexic daughter? How will Jasmine get through to her? And what will happen when she realises that her husband has decided to deal with his mid-life crisis by having an affair with one of his pencil-thin, low calorie diet fanatic acting students?<br />I don't usually read modern fiction, and I actually picked up this book because I thought it was a mystery novel. \\"How to Cook a Tart\\" isn't a mystery novel at all. But I wasn't really disappointed. Jasmine March captured my fancy and sympathies completely; also, I really loved the almost sensual manner in which Nina Killham described the food that Jasmine either ate or created. I also thought that Jasmine's one-woman crusade against the food critics who spend an awful lot of time telling everyone what they should and shouldn't eat was hilarious, and I'll admit, it did strike a cord with me.<br />The only problem I actually had with the novel was the ending. It was really over the top. I suppose that it did fit in with the overall tone of the book, in a strange and bizarre kind of way -- though I'm still not sure about this...I didn't have that much of a problem with the overall tone of the book. I didn't think that Nina Killham was writing a romance novel, so that I wasn't too dismayed by the slightly wry and ironic tone (mixed with flashes of humour) that permeated the book. I do however share Ms Dederer's feelings about the manner in which the book ended. And like Ms Dedere, I do think that the novel's strongest point was the descriptions of the foods in Jasmine's kitchen. All in all, a good 3 1/2 star read.	2002-09-21
1402683:US	52830980	R1VFTA83U0FLS5	0380812878	102582241	A Cruel Deceit	Books	5	6	6	N	N	brilliant as usual	It seems as if it's suddenly raining bodies at Waset, and as usual, Lt. Bak of the Medjay police is in the thick of it!<br />Lt. Bak and his company are enjoying a brief stopover in Waset before they move on to assume their new posting in Mennufer. Coincidentally, the people of Waset are celebrating the Beautiful Feast of Opet -- an opulent eleven day celebration, at which people from all over Kemet (Egypt) gather to commemorate and give thanks. It is a time of great festivity and rejoicing -- definitely not for hunting murderers and rooting out foul and monstrous deeds! And yet that is exactly the situation that Lt. Bak finds himself in (not that he's complaining though).<br />While walking about with his fellow Medjay officers at the busy Waset harbor, Lt. Bak stumbles onto the vicious murder of a Hittite horse trader. And while Lt. Bak would dearly love to look into the murder of this man, he (unfortunately) has no authority to act while he is in Waset. That is until the auditor Worserhet, is found murdered at one of the sacred warehouses of Lord Amon, in a manner similar to the Hittite's. Now, it so happens that Worserhet had been conducting an audit of the warehouses, making sure that the records tallied with the inventory. The Chief priest of Lord Amon himself, Hapuseneb, had given Worserhet this special assignment. But because Hapuseneb is currently busy with the many duties that overseeing the Beautiful Feast of Opet, Lt. Bak will be unable to question him as to why Worserhet had been working on the audit, and so discover the motive behind his murder. Instinct tells Bak that Worserhet had discovered some form theft at the warehouses. But User, the Overseer of Overseers of the storehouses of Amon, stoutly denies that any such hanky-panky could be going on without his knowing about it. Instinct also tells Bak that Worserhet's murder and that of the Hittite horse trader's are somehow linked. But exactly how, is a question that perplexes him. Given that task ofunraveling what's going on by Amonked (the storekeeper of Amon, and cousin to Queen Hatshepsut), Bak is determined to get to the bottom of what's going on, and to discover what links Worserhet's murder to the trader's. But as the investigation progresses, so does the body count mount. And Bak soon makes a very chilling discovery -- just as he is hunting a dangerous killer, so too is the killer hunting him! Searching for this ruthless and intelligent killer could prove to be Bak's most dangerous case yet.<br />I've found that I can always count on Lauren Haney to provide me with a mystery novel that is always clever, intricate and provides hours of fun reading. As usual, the plot was a rather brilliant one that was beautifully set out, complete with plot twists and red herring suspects to keep you guessing to the very end. The level of suspense was skillfully maintained throughout, and the authour had peopled the novel with characters that were both colourful and multi-faceted, thus making \\"A Cruel Deceit\\" a much more satisfying read. All in all, \\"A Cruel Deceit\\" made for some truly riveting reading, and is one historical mystery novel that should not be given a miss.	2002-09-20
1405187:US	52830980	R3MQUNR6I38NRF	0312982208	967561070	With All My Heart	Books	4	6	6	N	N	a good read	\\"With All My Heart\\" is part of the Kenyon brothers-Rosebud series (other books in the series include \\"Romancing a Rogue\\" & \\"Tempt Me Twice\\"), and I think is probably the best of the bunch so far.<br />Seven years ago Lord Joshua Kenyon abandoned his bride-to-be on their wedding day and returned to the Peninsula to carry on fighting Napoleon (Joshua was a captain at that point). His fiancee, the incredibly beautiful and vivacious Lily Pankhurst, went into decline because of his desertion and died soon after. And Joshua has been reviled ever since as a scoundrel and a cad. The wars are now over, and Joshua has returned to England to pick up the pieces of his life. But barely has he set foot on the island when Lily's brother, David, seeks him out and challenges him to a duel. Except it is not David that Joshua faces that fateful morning, but rather Miss Anne Neville, a good friend and neighbour to David Pankhurst.<br />The only daughter of an incredibly large family (Anne has 9 brothers), Anne is used to taking care of everyone around her. And knowing that David is not at all proficient with guns (while she is actually quite a skilled shot), Anne decides to take David's place at the duel. What Anne hadn't counted on was that someone else would be at the site, and that that person would shoot her, thus putting and end to the duel and unmasking her masquerade to Joshua. And while Joshua is understandably furious at Anne, he also resolves to uncover what is going on. Why would anyone would seek to kill universally liked Anne Neville? Or was David Pankhurst the real target?<br />Anne is equally determined to discover who tried to kill her, and so although she despises Joshua almost as much s David does, Anne is determined to work with him in order to get to the bottom of what is going on. But the more time she spends with him, the more she realises that there is more to Lord Joshua Kenyon than meets the eye. The Joshua she is getting to know may be a tad dictatorial and reserved, but he is also kind and compassionate. How could this Joshua be the same man who jilted Lily so callously? On top of it all, this sober and thoughtful Joshua is beginning to affect her in a way that no man has ever done before! Could spinsterish and firmly-on-th-shelf Anne be falling for the silver-tongued cad?<br />A word of warning: while the bulk of the book does not revolve around the should-she trust-him-even-though-he-is-a-cad motif, there is a fair amount of this going on as Anne tries to reconcile the Joshua of the scandal with the Joshua she knows. So, if you really hate those kinds of plot devices you might want to take note of this. However, because this plot device is actually an integral part of the novel, and because Barbara Dawson Smith handled the whole thing rather well, this plot device did not become quite so tiresome as it might have. Another small detraction was that the language was a tad too modern for my taste. But again this was a minor enough annoyance. <br />On the plus side however, the authour has created two rather memorable principal characters who did engage my concern and fancy. When I first met Anne Neville, she came across as being incredibly rude, bossy and confrontational. But as the story progressed, and I got to see all the different sides of her personality and character, I couldn't help but grow to like and approve of her wholeheartedly. Joshua is pretty much the usual run-of-the-mill angst-driven hero -- but a likable one at that! What I esp liked about this novel was that you get the sense that while Joshua is totally appreciative of Anne's charms, that it is her character and personality that captures and holds his interest. As such, the romance that develops between Joshua and Anne turns out to be a touching and poignant one as well, and one that one cannot help but root for.<br />I rather liked \\"With All My Heart.\\" It was a satisfying read. The first two books in this series weren't exactly memorable, but this one definitely was. The book ends with the hint that there are two more books (at least) in the series. And on the strength of \\"With All My Heart,\\" I will be checking out these forthcoming two.	2002-09-18
1406053:US	52830980	R2PBYAU9AEOINW	1559706147	825396386	Silvermeadow: A Kathy and Brock Mystery (Kathy and Brock Mysteries)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	absolutely riveting	\\"Silvermeadow\\" is a must read, esp for anyone who's ever been stuck at or who works at a shopping center/mall.<br />It looks as if DCI Brock is finally going to be able to nab his bte noire, the amphetamine juiced killer, 'Upper' North (whom readers may remember from \\"The Marx Sisters\\"), who has been recently sighted at the Silvermeadow shopping center in Essex. Eager to finally close the chapter on this violent but elusive criminal, Brock and his team (which also includes DS Kathy Kolla) use the investigation into the murder of a young girl as a cover for their being in Essex. <br />Everyone had more or less assumed that teenage school girl Kerri Vlasich (who also happened to work part-time at the food court at Silvermeadow) had runaway from home to be with her father (Mr. Vlasich works in Germany) -- that is until her compacted body is found at a waste disposal site. Who wanted Kerri dead, and why? And when the preliminary investigations seem to suggest that she had been abducted from (and was probably murdered at) Silvermeadow, the local superintendent suggests that Brock and his team take on the investigation into Kerri's murder while they keep an eye out for North. And even though they are committed to discovering who Kerri's murderer is, both Brock and Kathy cannot help but hope for a quick resolution to Kerri's case -- they're main objective for being in Essex is to collar 'Upper' North after all! But there are certain aspects about this case that are rather troubling, esp to Kathy. To begin with there is the whole issue of exactly what sort of crime it is they are investigating. Was Kerri's murder a one off? Or is there a predator at work at Silvermeadow? And is there any truth to the rumours that there have been other mysterious disappearances? Or are they just rumours? Both the local police and the people who manage Silvermeadow shy away from the notion that there is a predator at work, but Kathy cannot shake the uneasy feeling that there is something completely creepy about Silvermeadow. With time decidedly against them (the shopping center people are pressuring for a quick resolution) and the machinations of an overly ambitious local DS, Brock and Kathy will have to pull out all the stops in order to resolve Kerri's murder, even as they keep an eye on the main prize -- 'Upper' North...<br />Barry Maitland can congratulate himself for writing another exciting and riveting Brock and Kathy mystery novel. What a truly engrossing and compelling read \\"Silvermeadow\\" turned out to be! The plot was an intriguing and chilling one; and there were some really clever plot twists and enough red herring suspects to keep most mystery buffs happy. And Brock and Kathy are such and engaging team. I like the manner in which they complement each other (work wise and personality wise). The Brock and Kathy mystery series is probably one of the best in police procedural genre, and I'm always on the look out for the latest Brock & Kathy installation. \\"Silvermeadow\\" fulfilled all my expectations. A truly brilliant read.	2002-09-17
1406582:US	52830980	R2L8HSYPAN2NM0	0821772406	660670106	Strictly Forbidden (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	a captivating read	With &quot;Strictly Forbidden,&quot; Shelley Bradley has written an early Victorian romance novel that is truly captivating. From the very first page, I was hooked -- but not because &quot;Strictly Forbidden&quot; boasts of possessing a sizzling and romantic love story, but because this was one of the most angst-driven plots I've ever come across, and because &quot;Strictly Forbidden&quot; possesses one of the most courageous and engaging heroines I've ever come across.<br />The previous reviewer has done a really good job of encapsulating the basic plot premise, so I won't bore you with another recap. But basically the story revolves around the engagement of an unfortunately notorious young lady (Kira Melbourne) of mixed parentage to a young clergymen of a noble family (James Howland) , and his family's efforts (his mother and his cousin, Gavin Daggett, the Duke of Cropthorne) to separate the two. From the very first moment Kira appeared on the scene, she engaged both my interest and sympathies -- Shelley Bradley did a fantastic job of 'fleshing out' this character, showing us all facets of her character and personality. Ms Bradley also did a really good job in depicting the kinds of difficulties a person of mixed parentage would face -- the easy manner in which people are quick to assume the worse and to condemn just because someone is slightly different. <br />However, on the negative side, I have to admit that I really hated the duke for much of the novel. Much of his behaviour was deplorable and (at times) really appalling. But I will own that Ms Bradley did a really good job of depicting the conflict that he feels about his attraction for Kira and his determination to end Kira's engagement to James, no matter the pain he may cause; and the confusion he feels as he tries to make his mind if Kira is a heartless wanton or a severely wronged young lady.<br />Ultimately however, what I really liked about this novel was not the 'romance' that develops between the duke and Kira (the duke tends to rhapsodize too much about Kira's body and mouth and not enough on her character and personality for me to believe that he was truly in love with her and not in 'lust' with her), but the fact that this was the story of a young woman who had the courage and heart to face down her detractors, who armed with only prejudice, rumour and innuendo thought nothing to destroying her reputation and making her life quite hellish. Kira behaves throughout the novel with a kind of grace and dignity that is completely admirable -- rooting for Kira to attain all that she desired was not a problem at all! At the same time she is no doormat -- I really enjoyed the scenes where she tells the duke off! Another aspect of the novel that I rather liked was that Ms Bradley provided Kira with a younger brother (probably the hero of the next 'Strictly' installation, though I wouldn't at all mind reading a future 'Strictly' book that featured James as the romantic hero) who cared enough to fight for her honour and to clear her name. The last couple of chapters when the duke finally comes to his senses made for satisfying reading as well, though I would have preferred it if there had been a lot more groveling on his part. Kira was too softhearted! But than she was a woman in love, who had finally attained her heart's desire. <br />All in all, in spite of my frustration at the duke's shoddy behaviour, I have to admit that &quot;Strictly Forbidden&quot; was an enthralling and captivating read, not to be missed.	2002-09-17
1411072:US	52830980	R2VVA6RDJUBFP3	0060092645	979727315	My Favorite Bride (Governess Brides, Book 6)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	spy subplot saves this otherwise rather formulaic plot	&quot;My Favorite Bride&quot; does read like Catherine Dodd's salute to &quot;The Sound of Music&quot; -- with a few obvious differences of course. To begin with, she's transplanted everything (era and locale) to Victorian England Lake District. Another variation is that &quot;My Favorite Bride&quot; has a rather predominant subplot involving foreign and traitorous English spies. This is a subplot that has more or less linked two previous Dodd's novels to this one. In the other two books, &quot;In My Wildest Dreams&quot; &amp; &quot;Lost in Your Arms,&quot; the spy subplot was a rather muted one. However, this subplot is featured more dominantly in this novel, and I for one am glad as this saved the book from being an otherwise rather bland and unsurprising read. That's the trouble with refittings: everyone is rather familiar with the plot, and in order for a reader's interest to be piqued and held, either the characters have to be really special, or else the take on the well known plot has to be different enough to be engrossing. And unfortunately, I found that Christina Dodd's Victorian take on &quot;The Sound of Music&quot; was not quite different enough to make it a completely engrossing read for me. <br />The Colonel, while an almost carbon copy of the Captain from the Sound of Music, was a lot less of a romantic a hero (I thought) and seemed to be a lot more lust driven. And I couldn't really make up my mind if he was truly in love with Samantha (the Maria-clone and our heroine) or if it was a case of his libido at work. And while I liked the character of Samantha Pendregast quite a bit, and rather enjoyed Dodd's twist of making her a reformed pickpocket, I found her obsession with the notion that wild animals lurk in the Lake District, ready to devour her, to be quite irritating. I did not find it credible at all that she would not have realised that wolves and bears were practically nonexistent in the Victorian England Lake District. Surely as a governess, she would have come across this nugget of information somewhere in her training/reading? What saved this novel for me was the character of the other woman -- the 'suitable' bride that the Colonel had initially decided to marry, Teresa, the Countess of Marchant. From the very moment she entered the plot, I was captivated. What a refreshing and intelligent character (in fact she was the only intelligent character in the entire book) the countess turned out to be. I was so glad that she did not end up with the Colonel. She was too good for him! <br />My opinion on &quot;My Favorite Bride?&quot; It depends on whether or not you're a Christina Dodd's fan. The book is not a bad one, esp since the spy subplot and the countess really do make reading &quot;My Favorite Bride&quot; a much more entertaining read than it otherwise might have been. However, if you're looking for a good romance novel that takes a more in-depth look at how a governess wins over her charges and actually helps them cope with grief and loss, take a look at Karen Hawkins's &quot;An Affair to Remember.&quot;	2002-09-12
1412981:US	52830980	R2A0R3D4Z1TDPP	0451206940	791210809	Cupid's Choice (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	a refreshing change of pace	Gayle Buck's latest Regency romance novel is a rather old fashioned one that may not to everyone's taste, as the heroine of the piece, Miss Guineveve Holland, while she is extremely beautiful, and is slightly older than the usual teenage debutante, also happens to be a very shy and retiring young woman, totally lacking in self confidence.<br />Guinenvere Holland has always known that she was not her mother's favourite. And indeed Mrs. Holland seems to have reserved all her love and approval for her son (and Guineveve twin), Percival, the new Earl of Holybrooke. And Guineveve has grown used to putting the interests of both her brother and mother before her own, as well as fading into the background until she is needed to perform some task or the other. Now however, the Holland are in town for the Season, and Mrs. Holland has decided to concentrate on seeing that Guin is credibly launched into society, and to seeing that Guin makes a suitable match. The trouble is that Guin's expectations about her future does not match that of her mother's at all: Mrs. Holland, once a much sought after beauty but who (because of her own pettiness) somehow failed to make the advantageous match she so eagerly sought, has decided that Guin will fulfill her own thwarted ambitions; while Guin is not sure if she would like to be married at all. She would like nothing better than to return to the country and to spend her time riding about her brother's newly inherited estate. And then Guin meets the diplomat, Sir Frederick Hawkesworth, who kindly decides to take the shy young lady under his wing and to smooth her way in society. And suddenly London becomes a more magical place for Guin; who comes to the conclusion that she might like to be married, esp to someone as kind and as witty and as handsome as Sir Frederick. But does the kindly Sir Frederick return her regard? Or does he just view her as an object of pity, to be helped and then forgotten? Guin soon comes to the conclusion that shemight have to armor her hopeful heart against Sir Frederick's charms, esp since Sir Frederick does not at all fulfill her mother's idea of a suitable parti...<br />I rather enjoyed &quot;Cupid's Choice.&quot; The novel concentrates mostly on showing us how much under her mother's thumb Guin is, and on how retiring and unsure Guin is as a result of this. And because the authour does such an excellent job of arousing our sympathies on Guin's behalf, this novel really works. The authour also does a rather wonderful job of portraying exactly how selfish, unpleasant and pushing Mrs. Holland truly is, and just how little regard she has for her only daughter. The novel also focuses on how, with the help of a few good people, Guin gradually gains self confidence and poise, so that she is finally able to take her life in her own hands and act assertively on her own behalf. As such, Guin's romance with Sir Frederick does get relegated very much into the background. But this was not, in my mind, too great a detraction, as the novel was really about how Guin comes into her own. And anyway, the bits that dealt with Sir Frederick and Guin's romance were rather good and conveyed that tantalizing air of romance that the authour was aiming for.<br />The novel unfolded smoothly and briskly, though there were a couple of chapters toward in the end where things did bog down a little. Gayle Buck also did a wonderful job of depicting all the characters in this novel -- her portrayal of Mrs. Holland was magnificent. And while I have a suspicion that not too many readers may appreciate our heroine, Guineveve Holland, deeming her too insipid and mousy (the trend lately seems to have been for Regency heroines to be really assertive and feisty), I found Guin to be a rather refreshing change of pace. All in all, a rather fun read.	2002-09-10
1413877:US	52830980	R3A63XES9CXUJA	0451206967	180432093	Lord Nick's Folly (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	a truly romantic read	Of the (so far) three interconnected books (\\"Lord Huntington's Legacy,\\" \\"The Ivory Dragon\\" & \\"Lord Nick's Folly\\"), I liked \\"Lord Nick's Folly\\" best. Somehow the characters and romance featured in this novel captured my fancy in a way that the pervious two books, excellent reading though they were, were quite unable to. Nympha Herbert, the vicar's eldest daughter, was the character I liked best in \\"The Ivory Dragon,\\" so that I was really pleased when I discovered that she was the featured heroine in \\"Lord Nick's Folly.\\" Definitely, this book is going on my keeper shelf.<br />When Nympha Herbert receives summons from her rich grandaunt bidding her to visit her at her Nottinghamshire estate near the town of Mansfield, her mother decrees that Nympha will have to go, whether she likes it or not. But truth to tell, Nympha is not at all loath to shake the dust of her shoes and go on a visit -- Lord Philip Stanhope, the gentleman she had felt a decided partiality for has married someone else (events chronicled in \\"The Ivory Dragon\\"), and the happy couple are now expecting a baby. No, it would definitely be good to be away from home and the sight of so much domestic bliss. But her journey meets with an unexpected twist when the carriage she's traveling in meets with an accident and she's rescued by Lord Nicholas Stanhope -- someone she considers to be the most aggravating gentleman in the world, and who also happens to be the younger brother of Lord Philip!<br />Lord Nicholas Stanhope had been in the middle of seeing to the final bits of renovation to his house when his head gardener informs of the presence of a body on his newly constructed golf links. Upon investigating the scene, Lord Nicholas discovers that not only was the unknown man murdered but that he was also murdered with one of his own clubs. The only clue to man's identity is a receipt from a haberdasher's at Mansfield. And in spite of the fact that no one suspects him of the murder, or holds him responsible inany way, Lord Nicholas has decided to make for Mansfield in order to discover who the murdered man was, and perhaps who murdered him. Rescuing Nympha Herbert was the last thing he expected to have to do. But, brought up to do the right thing, Lord Nicholas decides to personally escort Nympha to her aunt's home, even if he does consider her to be an incredibly exasperating young woman. How will this trip progress?Will Lord Nicholas and Nympha be able to put their biased feelings towards each other aside and so make amiable traveling companions? Or will their mutual antipathy prove too much for them?<br />Well, it's a romance novel, so no surprises as to what will happen here. I have, however, only dealt with part of the storyline. Quite a bit more goes on in the book, so that there is a lot more for readers to discover and enjoy. I think that this is one of Emily Hendrickson's better efforts. I liked that even though there was a murder subplot, the novel focused mainly on the developing romance between Lord Nicholas and Nympha. I loved that she allowed for this romance to unfold at a slow and steady rate, thus showing us how both Nympha and Lord Nicholas come to change their minds about each other, as well as how this very delicate and tantalizing romance progresses. <br />On the whole the novel unfolded smoothly and evenly; and most of the characters, even the secondary ones, were well depicted and portrayed. All except Jared Milburn (a somewhat mysterious character) whose motivations remained murky to the very end. In spite of this, I still found \\"Lord Nick's Folly\\" to be a terrifically fun and memorable read.	2002-09-10
1417247:US	52830980	R1HT9QLSQIZ99K	0670030457	304194385	The Grave Maurice	Books	2	13	15	N	N	hardly vintage Grimes	I find myself agreeing with the first few reviewers about \\"The Grave Maurice\\" -- it was not a very engrossing or compelling a read. The first few chapters were very well done. Martha Grimes sets up the premise for the mystery-plot beautifully: Richard Jury is in hospital (The London Royal Hospital) recovering from having been seriously shot in \\"The Blue Last.\\" Bored and restless, his interest is somewhat piqued when his friend, Melrose Plant, tells him of a conversation he overheard at the Grave Maurice (a pub near the hospital). Apparently Jury's surgeon, Roger Ryder, suffered a tremendous loss a couple of years ago when his fifteen year old daughter, Nell, went missing. Coincidentally, Ryder decides to confide in Jury as well, and to ask for his help in resolving the issue of his missing daughter. It turns out that Ryder's father owns a very prestigious stud farm in Cambridgeshire, and Nell, who was completely horse mad as well as possessing a rather magical empathy with horses, was living with her grandfather when she was abducted. The strange thing was that there was no demand for a ransom. And in spite of the fact that it's been almost two years, none of the Ryders have ever given up hope that Nell will return to them one day. And what Roger Ryder wants from Jury to take a fresh look at Nell's case and to see if there are any new avenues that the investigation could take. And with some alacrity Jury agrees. But the discovery of the body of a mysterious murdered woman on the Ryder Stud Farm soon throws a spanner in the works. Who was she? Why was she at the farm? And could her murder have anything to do with Nell's kidnapping? These are the questions Jury has to find answers to if he is unlock the secrets that the Ryder farm holds.<br />As I noted earlier, the novel opens well, but after the first few chapters, the book suddenly seems to loose focus. There is plenty of atmosphere. Though I'm still not sure about the bits where we read what the horses actually think/feel -- it didn't really advance the mystery plot and just seemed to get in the way of plot development even though it did (I suppose) lend itself to the feel and mood of the plot. And there is a lot of character development. And again I wondered about this -- some of the characters just didn't need to be fully developed as secondary characters at all as they were not at all essential to the plot. Grimes, however, spared nothing in fleshing them out properly. And again I felt as if this did get in the way of the smooth flow of the mystery plot. I did a lot of FLIPPING and SKIMMING while reading this novel.<br />And again we have the usual characters (Vivianne, Aunt Agatha, Trueblood, Carole-anne, etc) that put in an appearance even though they have very little to do with the main plot, as well as episodes that had nothing at all to do with the mystery proper -- like the bits that dealt with fox hunting. How exactly it contributed to the storyline at hand still puzzles me. I found all these extra bits to be distracting and really irritating. And while I did appreciate Martha Grimes's salute to Josephine Tey, this novel did not at all compare well to \\"The Daughter of Time\\" in that that book was a totally engrossing read that really sucked you into the mystery at hand. Sad to say, \\"The Grave Maurice\\" was not a very satisfying Richard Jury/Melrose Plant murder mystery. There have been better Richard Jury/Melrose Plant mystery novels, and might I suggest that time would be better spent rereading any one of them?	2002-09-06
1419351:US	52830980	R1RXW0X3L2KQI2	0688176844	842930783	The Rival Queens: A Novel of Artifice, Gunpowder and Murder in Eighteenth-Century London	Books	5	2	2	N	N	a rollicking good read	If you're in the mood for a wildly entertaining historical mystery novel, Fidelis Morgan's latest Countess Ashby de la Zouche/Alpiew adventure should more than satisfy. The book possesses a really interesting and engrossing storyline, colourful characters, and is written with a great deal of wit, elegance, and humour.<br />While chasing down what they hope will be the latest society scandal involving the only daughter of a rich City alderman, the Countess and Alpiew, (the 'scandal' column reporters for the \\"London Trumpet\\"), make the acquittance of Colley Cibber (a playwright and actor currently working at Drury Lane). Always on the lookout for publicity for himself, Cibber invites the Countess and Alpiew to a lecture on the Passions. And because the Countess is (again) trying to evade the bailiffs for nonpayment of the Poor Rate (and because Alpiew is truly interested in attending the lecture) the ladies accept Cribber's invitation with some alacrity. The lecture, however, turns out to be instructional in a manner in that neither the Countess nor Alpiew anticipated as they are treated to a very public and bitter squabble between two of Drury Lane's leading actresses: the even tempered and universally adored Anne Lucas and the fiery tempered Rebecca Montagu. <br />But it is the morning following the lecture that turns out to be the really momentous one for both the Countess and Alpiew. First, they are greeted with the grim news that Anne Lucas has been murdered. Secondly, the Countess gets arrested by the bailiffs for nonpayment of the Poor Rate. And finally, Rebecca Montagu turns up at the Countess's doorstep, intent on hiring both the Countess and Alpiew to discover who Anne Lucas's murderer is and to protect her from her more ardent fans (the 'phanatiques'). Desperate for the money so that she can spring the Countess, Alpiew accepts the case with some reluctance, for she cannot rid herself of the feeling that Rebecca Montagu is not to be trusted. Soon, with the Countess at her side, the duo begins what could be their most frustrating of cases as the most obvious suspect in Anne Lucas's murder seems to be their client (Rebecca Montagu), who seems to be playing a deep game of her own, and who seems intent on making a may game of them. The more they dig, the more evidence they come up with that seems to imply Rebecca's guilt. What are they to do? And more importantly, what will it say of their reputations as private inquiry agents if they come up with the evidence that will send their own client to jail for murder?<br />\\"The Rival Queens\\" proved to be a rollicking fun read. The action never let up, and the plot unfolded at a brisk and smooth pace that had me fairly devouring the bok until I reached the last page! The storyline was a totally engrossing one, and there were enough cunning plot twists and red herring suspects to keep most mystery buffs happy. Best of all was Fidelis Morgan's prose style, which turned out to be witty, hilarious (I esp liked the bits where the Countess would purposely misremember Cibber's name, and address him by a fishy name instead) and very graceful. I really enjoy mystery novels that allows me to appreciate the history and the culture of the period, and \\"The Rival Queens\\" fulfilled this requirement admirably. Here's to future Countess Ashby de la Zouch & Alpiew mystery novels!	2002-09-04
1423053:US	52830980	R2SMHPJ7ZXNZI7	0312272952	226953498	Our Lady of Darkness: A Celtic Mystery	Books	5	15	16	N	N	a fantastically suspenseful read	\\"Our Lady of Darkness\\" takes place on the heels of the previous Sister Fidelma mystery novel, \\"Act of Mercy.\\" \\"Our Lady of Darkness\\" opens with Fidelma's breath-neck journey to the kingdom of Laigin, in order to meet with King Fianamail (the boorish young King of Laigin) in order to get him to allow her to investigate the charges against her good and close friend, Brother Eadulf. For those of you not yet familiar with this series, Sister Fidelma is not just any religieuse -- she also happens to be the younger sister of the King of Cashel, as well as an advocate of the courts (a dalaigh). And in spite of the somewhat hostile relationship that seems to flourish between Cashel and Laigin, Fidelma is fairly confident that she can clear up the mess Eadulf seems to have gotten himself into fairly quickly. So that she is both shocked and angry to discover that 1) Eadulf has been accused of raping and murdering a twelve year old novice from the Abbey at Fearna (the Abbey of the Blessed Maedoc); and that 2) the usual (and proper) Irish laws of investigation and passing judegement were not observed, and that Eadulf was judged according to the Roman Rule of Penitentials -- laws that are not yet accepted or observed by the Irish courts. (Not only that, but the Brehon also seems to have conducted a very shoddy investigation and to have bent many laws in order to convict Eadulf of the crime).<br />Using her legal expertise, Fidelma is able to persuade Fianamail to give her 24 hours to investigate things. With time decidedly against her, Fidelma makes for the Abbey; where she finds that not only does the uneasy relationship between Cashel and Laigin work against her, but also the clash between the Roman Rule of the Penitentials (which the Abbess stringently champions) and the Irish Rule of Colmcille. Add to that the fact that the Brehon of Ferna, Bishop Fossbach, happens to be an old adversary of Fidelma's, who would dearly love to see her fall from grace, and who seems to be completely in the thrall of the Abbess. But Fidelma is nothing if not determined. And in spite of the fact that there happens to be a witness to Eadulf's guilt, Fidelma is determined to get to the bottom of everything, and to clear Eadulf of all charges. Obviously, Eadulf was set up. But by whom, and why? As her investigation progresses, Fidelma comes across a great deal of evidence to support her suspicion that the case against Eadulf was very meticulously arranged, and that there is something truly evil and unwholesome at work at the Abbey. As the hours pass, so too does Fidelma's determination grow to both vindicate Eadulf and to root out the evil at the Abbey.<br />This is one of Peter Tremayne's more suspenseful efforts. The entire novel unfolded at a swift and brisk pace, though I will admit that things did bog down a little somewhere in the middle of the book. Other than that, I can safely report that this is a rather clever and intriguing plot, complete with a good number of red herring suspects and unexpected plot twists. And the final scene, where Fidelma, like Christie's Hercule Poirot, gathers all the suspects and untangles the mystery for all to see, was a real gem. \\"Our Lady of Darkness\\" turned out to be a truly fantastic read.	2002-09-01
1425560:US	52830980	R16L7OSKQE7SRY	0786710594	34739288	The Last Kashmiri Rose: Murder and Mystery in the Final Days of the Raj (Joe Sandilands Murder Mysteries)	Books	3	15	21	N	N	good mystery plot, though a little lacking in depth	Commander Joseph Sandilands of the Metropolitan Police (who had been seconded to the Bengal police for six months) is happily counting the hours to his departure from India (he didn't take to the country or the climate) when he receives an urgent missive from Sir George Jardine, the Acting Governor of Bengal, asking him to reinvestigate a few mysterious deaths. Apparently the officers of the Bengal Greys have been experiencing some rather rotten luck: over the years, the wives of at least five officers have died of accidents. And now with the suicide of Peggy Somersham, rumours are flying about the ill fated unit. Especially as someone keeps putting roses on the graves of the dead women on the anniversary of their deaths. Nancy Drummond, Sir George's married niece, and a good friend of Peggy Somersham's however believes that Peggy was murdered. And she wants someone to reinvestigate all the deaths of the officers' wives. And while Sandilands agrees that there is something very fishy about all these deaths, he is not too sanguine about getting any kind of result. A look at the files reveals that the previous police investigation into the past deaths was shoddy at best, and he knows the futility of trying to look into a cold case. But, ably assisted by a young Indian police officer, Naurung Singh, and the delectable but very married Nancy Drummond, Sandilands is determined to discover who may be killing off the wives of the Bengal Greys and why.<br />The mystery turned out to be an interesting and engrossing one; it also unfolded at a smooth and brisk pace. There were even a few plot twists and some red herring suspects. So that, on the whole, I should have been over the moon with this book. But I wasn't. And that was mainly because the principal characters (Sandilands and Nancy) really failed to capture my interest and concern. They seemed a little dated (esp their conversations). I'm big on historical accuracy, but I'll admit this was one instance when I'd been really happy if Nancy hadn't sounded as if she stepped out of a school girls' annual. Another thing I found disappointing was that the authour had not gone very much into the social history of 1920s India. I rather think that if she had, the novel would have been slightly more evocative and atmospheric. Sometimes I felt (while I read this book) as if all the Indians had been shipped off to Jupiter, while the English cavorted about the country side to their heart's content. <br />I suppose that part of the reason why \\"The Last Kashmiri Rose\\" failed totally to satisfy was that I had just finished (re)watching a couple of episodes of that excellent PBS' mystery series, \\"Heat of the Sun.\\" And compared to that (even though \\"Heat of the Sun\\" takes place in 1920s Kenya), \\"The Last Kashmiri Rose\\" lacks a certain depth, as well as a charismatic and engaging detecting duo. All in all, I'd say that \\"The Last Kashmiri Rose\\" deserves a 3 1/2 star rating for possessing a really good mystery plot.	2002-08-29
1428976:US	52830980	R20WYG94WCJJCM	0843950382	583409210	Dangerous	Books	3	11	11	N	N	on the whole: a good read	I don't think that I'm a very difficult person to please. All I want in a historical romance novel is that be as accurate as possible (with an eye for proper language, reliable historical detail, etc), that it possesses an engrossing story line with a hero and heroine that engages my interest (and concern), and that it be written with elegance and grace. Which is why I found Debra Dier's \\"Dangerous\\" to be so very frustrating. The novel had a really interesting and gripping storyline (the search for a young lady who had been kidnapped from her own bedroom), it was actually rather well written, and it even possessed a hero (Sebastian St. Clair, the Marquess of Andover) who was not manipulative, self centered and controlling (in other words not someone I longed to throw a book at) -- all wonderful plus points until one considers the heroine. Emma Wakefield was a rather engaging heroine who also happened to be courageous and good hearted. One could even say that she was rather intelligent. Unfortunately, she was also rather short on common sense. And this was, I thought, a really big flaw in the novel. <br />Emma Wakefield is an unmarried young lady who has more or less eschewed the social swirl that most members of her class partake in (not only because she's relatively poor but also because she has a rather poor opinion of aristocrats). And it is Emma who has been more or less held her family together (the aunt who took her in when her parents died, and her aunt's daughters); so that when her cousin, Charlotte, is kidnapped, Emma naturally feels the need to investigate and bring her home. Through the course of her investigations, she arrives at the conclusion that it is the Marquess of Andover who has kidnapped her cousin. Now everyone believes that the marquess is a murderer (he is supposed to have killed his fiance because she was about to jilt him for someone else). Believing firmly in this rumour, and terribly taken with the vision of behaving like one of the heroines she's always reading about in gothic romances, Emma decides to single-handedly confront the marquess and force him to tell her where her cousin is. Here's where the plot fell apart for me. If the marquess is really someone who got away with murder, and he is indeed responsible for Charlotte's disappearance, what on earth does Emma think that facing such a dangerous man with a small gun (and no backup) will accomplish? Emma, clearly belongs to the 'too foolish for her own good' category. Much of the novel is full of situations in which Emma sallies forth into danger (esp after the marquess tells her not to), the marquess rescuing her and then scolding her, and the two squabbling even as sparks fly between the two. Case in point the episode at the brothel -- I'm not going to go into it, but this was the point at which I thought a good shaking may do Emma some good. I'm never in favour of male brute strength, and I do believe strongly that an intelligent heroine should be equal to anything. But there are situations where, no matter how courageous and intelligent you are, where it is better to go forth only if you have an army behind you, or at least a martial arts background equal to Zena. Emma had neither, but this did not deter her. And the fact that she did not really get into any kind of trouble at all despite her lack of care was just too unbelievable for words. If it wasn't for the fact that I rather liked Emma (in spite of my feelings of exasperation), and enjoyed the chemistry that flowed between the marquess and Emma, I would probably have stopped reading \\"Dangerous\\" the third time I came across our head strong heroine behaving foolishly.<br />In case I've not made myself very clear, I do think that \\"Dangerous\\" is worth reading. The novel was a rather gripping one (that also possessed a rather sizzling romance to boot), and you could palpably feel the tension mount as Emma and the marquess followed the clues to their inevitable conclusion. The resolution,however, (the restoring of Charlotte to her family) was incredibly rushed, and came out of no where. Either there is a novel in the works chronicling Charlotte's adventures, or \\"Dangerous\\" is a sequel to a previous Debra Dier novel. I do hope however that, just in case Charlotte's story hasn't been written yet, that Debra Dier makes her behave a little more sensibly than Emma did in \\"Dangerous.\\"	2002-08-26
1430083:US	52830980	R1SJMJIHXJA6DH	0007122934	390106233	Murder by Suicide (Ellie Quicke Mystery Series #2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	an engrossing read	Ellie Quicke (the recently widowed detecting heroine from \\"Murder By the Altar\\") returns to her pleasant suburban neighbourhood (after having spent a stressful few weeks taking care of her demanding daughter, Diana, and her grandson) to find that everyone is still reeling from the 'sex' scandal that caused their beloved vicar (the Rev. Gilbert Adams) to be transferred out of the parish. Apparently someone has been sending poison pen letters to parishioners accusing the vicar of having an affair with the church's mousy organist, Nora. Now everyone is angry with Nora, the letters are still pouring in furiously, and Nora is beginning to fall apart at the seams.<br />And then Nora commits suicide, leaving Ellie feeling both guilty for not having done enough to help help her, and angry at the letter writer for all the misery (s)he has caused. Imagine Ellie's shock then when she becomes the poison pen writer's latest target! But while Ellie is appalled at this turn of events, she's decided that she's not going to take things lying down. And in spite of certain familial complications (both Diana and her aunt-in-law, Drusilla, seem to think that Ellie will jump and do their bidding whenever they open their mouths), and suddenly being courted by not one but two suitors, Elllie is determined to discover who is behind these letters and to put a stop to this campaign of poison before someone else is hurt.<br />This second installment in the Ellie Quicke mystery series takes place about 4 months after the first one, \\"Murder at the Altar.\\" As such, a lot of old ground -- Ellie's tendency to cave in the face of a stronger personality (esp where her daughter's, Diana, needs are concerned), and her grief at her husband's recent and sudden death -- still figures prominently into the plot. However, since Ellie is still learning to become her own person, this is something that can be easily overlooked. Though I do hope that this will no longer be an issue in future Ellie Quicke books.Mystery-wise, while a lot of side issues did get in the way of Ellie's investigation into the identity of the poison pen writer, because this series hinges so strongly on the character of Ellie, these issues became an integral part of the novel and did not leave me feeling frustrated at all that investigative bit took a while to unfold. \\"Murder by Suicide\\" was a wonderfully riveting read that boasts of possessing a likable heroine that everyone will find easy to identify with. The plot may not be an incredibly complex one but it was an engrossing and entertaining one nevertheless, and is one that is worth recommending as an enjoyable read.	2002-08-25
1432393:US	52830980	R5S20TRHOQQ1M	0312290209	293095254	Day of Wrath: A Mystery	Books	3	1	1	N	N	unfortunately, this well written novel lacks suspense	I'm not a fan of the Tudors, and I've always taken strong exception to writers who whitewash the Tudors. Not that Iris Collier does this at all. This is, I think, one of the most even handed and well researched mystery novels I've ever come across, (no surprises there of course, after all the authour did read history at Cambridge) -- the authour manages to balance a realistic view of a ruthless and capricious king with the overwhelming praise and approval that he garnered from his subjects at the time of his reign. \\"Day of Wrath\\" also accurately captures the vibrancy and pageantry of Henry's court, and juxtaposes this nicely with the prosperous and somewhat idyllic lives of the people in Dean Peverell. The book also captures the perils of the period as well -- the fears that intelligent people had about the course that Henry VIII and his piggy friends were set on (the dissolution of the monasteries and the swift execution of all those who opposed their will); the religious dilemma (was England going to remain a Catholic country, or was Henry about to adopt some strain of Lutherism?); and if all this change would lead to more civil unrest (i.e. another civil war). There was only one problem I had with this book, and that was that the mystery at the core of the novel was not a very intriguing or suspenseful one at all.<br />Lord Nicholas Peverell, one of King Henry VIII's advisors at court, hurriedly makes for his manor house in Sussex. The King is about to sign into law an act dissolving all the monasteries, and Nicholas is anxious to warn Prior Thomas, prior of the priory that Nicholas's family have been patrons of ever since they founded it almost 500 years ago, of this latest development. Especially since the King's Commissioners are about to land en masse upon the Priory in order to access it's wealth and decide how to stripe it bear for their King. However, Nicholas is soon sidetracked by the mysterious murder of his steward, Matthew. The evidence suggests thatMatthew had been killed as a result of an interrupted robbery. Nicholas however is puzzled as to why the robbers chose to strangle Matthew instead of merely bashing him on the head in order to make a quick getaway. And then his comely neighbour, Jane Warrener, discloses that Matthew and his betrothed (Bess Knowles) had overheard a plot against the King. Jane thinks that Matthew was killed by the conspirators in order to prevent him from warning anyone of their scheme. Nicholas is aghast. Could another civil war be in the offing? For although Nicholas does not agree with the King on the issue of the dissolution of the monasteries, neither does he want a civil war. Resolute, Nicholas decides to look into things, and in this he is ably aided by Jane (even though he'd rather that she didn't involve herself in such dangerous matters). Unfortunately, other distractions keep getting in the way of his investigation: the King who seems to constantly require for Nicholas to attend him at court; and Prior Thomas who has decided not to take the King's Commissioners seriously and who seems to have a Nero-fiddling-while-Rome-burnt attitude towards things! Will Nicholas discover who murdered Matthew and why? And will he be able to stop the conspirators before their Day of Wrath unfolds?<br />While the plot is an interesting one, and one that moves forward at an almost dizzy speed, the plotting left a lot to be desired. There was very little mounting of tensions or clever plot twists to keep you guessing or red herring clues/suspects that would have made \\"Day of Wrath\\" a truly exciting and intriguing read. On the other hand, the characters found in this novel were all very well developed, esp those of the conspirators, so that you really understood the motivations of those who plotted against the King. I would describe \\"Day of Wrath\\" as a wonderfully engrossing historical novel that has elements of intrigue with a murder mystery attached to it, rather than as a 'straight' historical mystery novel. Described that way the book rates a strong 4 stars; however as mystery novel, it rates somewhere around 3 1/2 stars	2002-08-23
1433510:US	52830980	R3FQDT1OEMG2MK	0312276834	961764043	The Saint John's Fern: A Roger the Chapman Medieval Mystery (Roger the Chapman Medieval Mysteries)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	a chilling and haunting tale	For me, \\"The Saint John's Fern\\" turned out to be one of better Roger the Chapman mystery novels. The atmosphere was chilling and haunting and the murder mystery a gripping and intriguing one. However, I will own that I'm biased as Kate Sedley's Roger the Chapman mystery series is one of my all time favourites, and is always an auto-buy for me (I actually fork out for the expensive British Hardcovers).<br />Newly married to Adela (his first wife's cousin) and basking in the glow of his newly merged family (that includes Adela's young son, his own daughter, and his mother-in-law from his first marriage), one would think that Roger the Chapman would be content never to leave his new home at Lewin's Mead in Bristol. However it isn't too long before Roger feels the pull to travel (much to his mother-in-law's disappointment and chagrin). Fortunately for Roger, Adela understands her husband completely, and refuses to stand in his way. For Roger has one talent: the ability to solve knotty problems (i.e. apparently unsolvable murders). And Roger (who happens to be an ex-Benedictine novitiate) feels strongly that it is God who directs him to travel to wherever there is a wrong that needs to be put right, or a murderer brought to justice. And this time God (and his feet) sends him to Plymouth, where happenstance takes him to Bilbury Street, where Roger learns a particularly vicious murder took place a few months ago.<br />Five months ago, retired and wealthy fisherman, Oliver Capstick was brutally bludgeoned to death (while he slept) by his young grandnephew, Beric Gifford. Beric (and his older sister Berenice) happen to be Master Capstick's only surviving relatives, as well as his heirs. But they are also quite poor and quite dependent on the old man. And when Master Capstick tries to arrange a match for Beric with a glassmaking heiress, all hell breaks loose. For Beric happens to be in love with his sister's lady's maid, Katherine Glover, and he refuses to countenance the match his granduncle is proposing. The two have an angry and ugly falling out, with Master Capstick threatening to make Berenice his sole heir. And on the morning following this altercation, it is alleged that Beric rode over to his uncle's house and beat him to death while he slept. That Beric is guilty of the crime is not the issue -- far too many people saw him leaving the house mere minutes before the hue and cry was raised. No, the chilling bit deals with the posse's inability to apprehend Beric, and his quick disappearance from the scene of the crime. Many people believe that Beric ate an herb known as Saint John's Fern, and herb that is able (or so people claim) to render the consumer invisible. Roger, however refuses to believe in this supernatural explanation, and is sure that there is a logical explanation as to why Beric has not been found yet. And confident that that is the reason why he is in Plymouth, Roger begins his investigation, gently questioning witnesses, trying to figure out where Beric Gifford is hiding and uncover the secrets that the Gifford family is hiding.<br />This latest Roger the Chapman installment turned out to be a rather chilling and haunting one. (Esp haunting were the bits where Roger was sure that he was being stalked by the murderous and seemingly invisible Beric). And while it did take a while for the mystery to unfold, the story proved to be such a perplexing and intriguing one that I didn't really notice this 'flaw.' Adding to the ambiance of the novel is Kate Sedley's excellent depiction of the everyday life of the common folk in the fiftenth century -- their hardships, they generosity and their clannishness. \\"The Saint John's Fern\\" proved to be an excellent and entirely engrossing read. Not only was the mystery a puzzling and involving one, but Kate Sedley had also strewn clues all over the place so that the reader will also be able to solve the mystery along with Roger. And that made reading \\"The Saint John's Fern\\" a lot offun as well.	2002-08-22
1433728:US	52830980	R1NI91SUSU323Q	082177378X	686666128	Miss Scott Meets Her Match (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	a good three and half star read	Miss Elizabeth Scott is an heiress as well as the sole proprietor of her deceased father's thriving import business. But with both her parents dead, and no living siblings, Elizabeth is quite alone in the world, save for her two maternal aunts that she lives and cares for and a dirty dish of a cousin, Victor Newfield. And Victor, who happens to be facing ruin and prison because of his gambling debts, is now attempting to force Elizabeth to marry him. Escaping from Victor's nefarious clutches, Elizabeth flees through the streets of London, and literally lands at Spencer Willoughby's feet. <br />Elizabeth's breathless explanation of her plight immediately arouses Spencer's interest and concern, and he persuades Elizabeth to allow him to help her. He suggests that she accompany him (and his mother) to one of his family's many estates, and that she stay there incognito while his lawyer, working in concert with her's, arranges her affairs so that Victor (or any fortune hunter for that matter) will never be able to get his hands on her considerable fortune or her business. Used to solving her own problems (and that of others), Elizabeth demurs at first at the thought of involving outsiders in her family's affairs. But Willoughby is nothing if not masterful in his arguements, and Elizabeth soon finds herself setting off for Linden Park. <br />Soon her days fall into a routine of walking about and reading and doing a great deal of nothing. Not what someone used to running a hectic business is used to at all! And she soon finds her thoughts centering obsessively on the enigma that is Spencer Willoughby. Outwardly, he seems the kind of indolent blue blood that she has very little time for. Certainly his family tends to be a little dismissive of him. And yet this is the man who has managed to persuade her to put her life and security in his hands. And because Elizabeth is attracted to Spencer, she isn't sure if her sense that there is more to Spencer than meets the eye is merewishful thinking on her part, or reality. But she is determined to find out once and for all!<br />As for Spencer, while he finds Miss Scott entrancing beyond words, he knows that she is not for him. What woman would want to tie her life with a penniless younger son? And yet there is an attraction and empathy between them that fairly sizzles! What is a poor man to do when he finds himself falling in love with an independently minded heiress? Perhaps slaying all her dragons will render him more attractive in her eyes?<br />\\"Miss Scott Meets Her Match\\" is a pleasant enough read. The novel unfolds a little slowly, and the plot doesn't really pick up pace until about halfway through the book. But once this point was passed the novel did pick up, and became a little more exciting and intriguing. Both the principal characters were likable and interesting. And I liked the twist that Laura Paquet put on this novel -- giving the heroine the position of responsibility and power, while it is the hero who is still trying to find his niche and to prove himself. It made for a refreshing change. Plot-wise, \\"Miss Scott Meets Her Match\\" is not a really stellar read. But what saves this novel and lifts it out of the ho-hum realm is the interaction between Elizabeth and Spencer, the somewhat honest and frank manner in which they relate to each other, as well as the romance that develops between them. A good three and half star read.	2002-08-21
1434715:US	52830980	R2292K2UGNKDM	0821774042	242345778	The Fontainebleau Fan (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	three wonderful charactersin search of a more exciting plot	\\"The Fontainebleau Fan\\" suffers from having three fairly interesting characters who unfortunately, happen to be stuck in a rather bland plot. <br />Miss Meg Haywood and her family have had the misfortune of falling on some rather hard times indeed. And it has been Meg's artistic talent that has more or less kept poverty at bay. Now, however, she has unwittingly gotten herself involved in an antique's swindling scheme. Meg and her sister, Olivia, have been stitching and hand-painting fans, little realising that their fans were being sold as antiques by their unscrupulous friend. Upon discovering that their copy of the Fontainebleau Fan (supposedly once a prized possession of Madame de Pompadour), was sold to the Earl of Wakefield as the real thing, both Meg and Olivia make for London in order to rectify the error. The earl however turns out to be an arrogant and supercilious beast, who believing that the sister are swindlers, takes them to Berkshire, in order to meet his grandmother (for whom he had bought the fan) so that the sisters can retrieve the false fan and exchange for the real one. (Not that he really believes that this is what the sisters actually mean to do.)<br />Once at Berkshire, the sisters meet the earl's grandmother, who takes to the sisters immediately. And taken by Meg's obvious talent, the countess offers Meg the commission of redecorating her conservatory. Needing the money desperately, Meg agrees to undertake the redecorating of the room. But she also privately resolves to stay out of the high and mighty earl's way. Likewise the earl also resolves to stay out of the way of the pretty young artist who so obviously holds him in disdain. What neither the earl or Meg bargain for is a marriage minded old woman who has decided that they would be perfect for each other, and who goes out of her way to throw the pair together. What will happen? Will the earl and Meg succumb to the attraction that fairly hums between them? Or will they stick to their separate (and private) resolves to avoid each other as much as possible? <br />The trouble with \\"The Fontainebleau Fan\\" is that there is very little conflict in the storyline. As such there is very little tension. The plot unfolded in such a 'straight' manner that the ultimate outcome was never in doubt at all! It's true Victoria Hishaw does introduce the fact that Meg, being the daughter of impoverished gentry, as well as an artist who works for her living, is not considered to be the ideal mate for the rich and eligible Earl of Wakefield. She also introduces to the plot the fact that the ability to enjoy life has been bred out of the earl because of all the responsibilities that he has had to assume. Still, all these factors figured into the plot is such a muted manner that one did not really feel the angst Meg must have gone through when she first realises her feelings for the earl and decides that nothing can come of her feelings for the earl; likewise the earl's conflicted feelings about his attraction for Meg for that matter. On the other hand, while the plot was a little boring, three of the characters Victoria Hinshaw created, Meg, Olivia and the countess, were pure joys to read about, and were (I felt) quite wasted on the novel. I liked the manner in which the authour depicted the countess's verve for life, her elegance and her charm. I also liked that Victoria Hinshaw gave both Meg and Olivia quiet dignity, inner strength and humour. And it was a real shame, I felt, that the story was not exciting enough for these wonderful characters.	2002-08-21
1443275:US	52830980	R1I18R24DLPLCA	0451205510	705895903	A Reckless Bargain (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	a well written novel, even though it was not my cup of tea	The Dowager Duchess of Wexcombe has just made the unpleasant discovery that her nearest and dearest are out to curtail as much of her independence as possible. They claim that a lady of her years should be ensconced in her dower house, looking forward to the daily visits of her great grandchildren, and being taken care of by those who care for her -- not racketing about all over the world with little thought to her health or consequence. The dowager however has other ideas: after years of being tied to a man she didn't love and didn't like, the time has come, the dowager feels, to spread her wings and to do the kinds of things she's always longed to do. And fearing that she will be ambushed by everyone when she goes to visit her grandson (the current duke) at his country estate, she asks her good friend, Kit Mallory (a young widow she had met on the voyage back from India), to accompany her. <br />The dowager's family, however, are under the impression that Kit is an adventuress. And fearing that Kit is out to worm her way into the older woman's will, the dowager's relatives have come up with a plan to discredit Kit. They have decided to get the family rake, Nicholas Darcy, the Marquess of Bainbridge, to seduce Kit, and so to reveal her 'true' colours for all to see. Bored to death with nothing to do (obviously attending the House of Lords and taking care of his estates doesn't figure into Nicholas's scheme of things) Nicholas is fairly chomping at the bit to get his hands on the delectable widow. Afterall EVERYONE knows what widows are actually like! And Kit, suffering from the twin evils of being the only daughter of a spendthrift roue and the widow of a cit, must be, in the dowager's family's collective minds, the quintessence of a hard-eyed adventuress!! <br />Kit, however, turns out to be something other than what Nicholas expected her to be: a nice, intelligent and entirely beguiling young woman, who obviously cares for the dowager very much. But he is at thehouse party in order to 'free' the dowager from the clutches of an adventuress. And so he goes about his task of seduction. And when Kit turns to Nicholas for help in smoothing things between the duke and the dowager, Nicholas blackmails Kit into agreeing to be his mistress in exchange for his help. Appalled but intrigued (never had kit met a man who makes her feel so alive as Nicholas does), Kit agrees to the terms. But the more time he spends with her, the more Nicholas comes to the conclusion that Kit is someone really special, and someone that may want to spend the rest of his life with. But his relatives expect him to carryout the PLAN. What should Nicholas do? Please his family? Or confess all to Kit? But at the back of Nicholas's mind lies the fear of what Kit will do once she learns of the NEFARIOUS PLAN...<br />Although I've been a little dismissive about the plot, honesty compels me to admit that Elizabeth Powell is a brilliant authour. Even though I didn't care for the manner in which the plot was unfolding, I did find myself totally engrossed in what was happening between the pages of this novel. And I was totally engaged by Kit Mallory, the heroine of \\"A Reckless Bargain.\\" Kit turned out to be the kind of intelligent, charming and forthright character that we all like out heroines to be. I just didn't take to the hero (Nicholas) very much -- he wasn't her equal in any way (certainly not in character, inner strength or intelligence). And when he begs her to give him a week to prove that he has changed? It was all I could do not to throw the book away in disgust. How, on earth, can anyone credibly gauge if someone has changed or not in a week? <br />If you don't mind the I'll-only-help-you-if-you-agree-to-sleep-with-me gambit, than this novel will definitely satisfy. Because it is a really well written book. Elizabeth Powell does a fantastic job of showing us why Kit finds Nicholas so vital that she's willing to give up her self respect in order to experience some of the sensual pleasures he's offering. I may not like this book, but it's well written and really rather good.	2002-08-13
1444862:US	52830980	R22PSBSZLH83B2	0821772309	742072653	A Scholarly Gentleman (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	a bit of a somber read...	\\"A Scholarly Gentleman\\" makes full use of the BIG MISUNDERSTANDING plot; and normally, I'm not a really big fan of this device. Perhaps it's because it's not that easy to make this plot device work in an interesting and gripping manner. But I'll admit, I thought about this novel long after I'd finished it. Catherine Blair did a fairly good job of sustaining my interest even though I did grow rather tired of all the misunderstandings that Phoebe (the heroine) and Jordan (the hero) fairly reveled in.<br />Seven years ago, beautiful Phoebe Granville threw over Jordan Blakley DeVaux in order to marry his richer and titled cousin, Arthur. Now, however Arthur is dead (he was killed in a duel) and Jordan, an astronomy professor at Cambridge University, has now inherited the title, all the entailed properties ... and all the unpaid debts that Arthur and Phoebe had run up during their stay in London. In order to prevent Phoebe from running up more bills, Jordan forces her to leave London and to take up residence with his sister, Hilary, and her family in Cambridge (and so that he can keep an eye on her. For while Jordan is still angry and bitter at the manner in which he was jilted, he still happens to be as much in love with as he was all those years ago.)<br />Saddened by the death of her husband (even though they had not been dealing very well with each other of late), Phoebe is furious with Jordan for forcing her leave London and come to such a backwater town. But when she learns about the debts, she firmly resolves to try and repay Jordan the money, and to learn to manage her limited income more efficiently so that she can move back to London as soon as possible. For Phoebe cannot bear to live so near Jordan, to see him everyday and to be reminded of what might have been. And all that churning emotion (anger, resentment, confusion and love) is making her feel quite bilious. Unfortunately, associating with each other is the one thing that neither Phoebe nor Jordan can avoid. The past keeps intruding in all their dealings with each other. Can Phoebe and Jordan learn to deal with each other without allowing for all that accumulated hurt and pain to affect them more? The past must definitely be dealt with. But will it bring them closer together or tear them apart? And what of the love they still feel for each other?<br />\\"A Gentlemanly Scholar\\" is a much more angst driven and somber book than what one would expect from Zebra. And truth to tell, I did grow a little tired of all the anger and misunderstandings that Phoebe and Jordan seem to enjoy indulging in. At the same time I grew to really care for both characters and was fairly anxious for both Phoebe and Jordan to work out all their misunderstandings and get down to living happily ever after! The book, however, is a little slow moving, and the relationship between Phoebe and Jordan seemed to operate a lot on the one-step-forward-two-steps-backward school of thought. There is a lot of anger and pain in this novel, and it did (at times) get in the way of a brisk and tight unfolding of the novel -- esp since Blair does not really go into why both characters are so angry with each other, but rather doled out bits of information judiciously throughout the book. However, I'd encourage all readers to stick it out, as the effort pays off. \\"A Scholarly Gentleman\\" is not quite the usual Regency fare. But what a read. And the relief when Phoebe and Jordan finally work everything out! <br />On the whole I'd say that while I did like this novel quite a bit, I was a tad disappointed. Because from the plot synopsis at the back of the book, I was expecting quite another kind of romance novel -- not one full of tragic misunderstandings and the general white-washing of the principal characters's motives and actions. Still \\"A Scholarly Gentleman\\" was quite the read, and should not be missed. A strong 3 1/2 stars.	2002-08-11
1445719:US	52830980	R1HHEA70UICCCG	0821773607	399218586	The Impertinent Miss Bancroft (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	an engaging read	After having been turned off from no fewer than six positions in the past two years, Miss Sophia Bancroft realises that this latest post as governess to Viscount Lucian Northrop's young nephews and niece, could well be her last chance to make good. And with two younger sisters to provide for, this situation is not something she can take lightly. And so she resolves firmly to be the ideal employee, and not to let anything get in her way. But that is before she realises that there is something nefarious going on at Number Nine, Clarges Street (the viscount's London home), and that this is something that Sophy, with her lively sense of curiosity and her strong sense of justice, can help put right. If only the viscount would let her do so!<br />Someone in the Northrop household is a petty thief. And when evidence points to his beloved Aunt Addie, Viscount Northrop knows that he has to do something in order to restore her good name. The thing is that he wasn't bargaining for a mere slip of a girl interfering in his plans to bring the miscreant to justice, no matter her claims to having had a lot of experience is solving petty crimes! But Northrop cannot deny that Sophy, with her lively sense of humour and her sharp mind, is having an effect on him. And when things take a very sinister turn indeed it all Northrop can do to keep Sophy from carrying on with her quest to unmask the wrongdoer, as well as vindicate his aunt's good name.<br />\\"The Impertinent Miss Bancroft\\" was first published about 10 years ago, and in some ways, this Regency does show its age. For example, Sophy is just a little too spirited and pushy for a twenty-one year old governess, to be very credible. Add to that her unhappy circumstances -- having been fired once too often, and needing this post so as to be able to pay for her sister's tuition, and you really begin to wonder at her pushy behaviour! However, because Sophy is a charming and taking heroine, who does put the welfare of others (well, the members of the Northrop family at any rate) before her own, and one is able to overlook all these improbable flaws. Another factor that dates this book is the manner in which Sophy's and Northrop's romance unfolds. Given what's published today, you'd be forgiven if you somehow missed the fact that there was a romance simmering between the two! Both Sophy and Northrop go in for some heavy flirtation, but very little else. Well, with theft and other crimes going on in the Northrop household, it may have been a little difficult for the two principal characters to have conducted a very satisfactory courtship afterall.<br />I read this novel many years ago, as well as the second book in the series, but somehow missed the third installment. So, I'm really pleased that Zebra has undertaken to reprint these books. Finally I'll get to see what happens to Sophy's sisters -- there's something going on there, only hinted at but I'm dying to discover what it is. So here's to hoping that the following books in the Sophy Bancroft series gets republished soon. But to get back to \\"The Impertinent Miss Bancroft,\\" on the whole, I found this novel to be a very charming and lighthearted read, and one that I would not hesitate to recommend.	2002-08-10
1447848:US	52830980	R1B1UMV1H34D3B	0380977362	604572911	The House of Seven Mabels (Jane Jeffry Mysteries, No. 13)	Books	2	16	20	N	N	there have been better Jane Jeffry mysteries...	Sadly, what I felt when I finished this latest Jane Jeffry mystery novel was frustration and confusion. Whatever is going on with Jill Churchill? The Jane Jeffry mystery books used to be one of my favourites (as well as an automatic buy for me). But not anymore. I found it very hard to believe that the authour who wrote \\"Grime and Punishment,\\" \\"A Quiche Before Dying\\" and \\"The Class Menagerie\\" also wrote this very sad and unsatisfactory work.<br />Feeling bored and restless (Jane is suddenly confronted with the fact that soon her house will be empty of children and that she has yet to accomplish anything noteworthy besides being a good mother), Jane Jeffry reluctantly agrees to help her best friend and neighbour Shelley tackle the redecorating of an old Victorian house in their neighbourhood. The house is an eyesore and should have been torn down long ago. But now, incredibly rich and recently divorced Bitsy Burnside (a woman who usually gives Jane heartburn) has decided to restore and renovate the house and use it for business purposes. And she wants Shelley and Jane to do the redecorating. Jane is leery but Shelley is excited at the prospect of shopping at someone else's expense. And so Jane soon finds herself a reluctant partner in this latest enterprise. But too many things about this project cause both Jane and Shelley to wonder if it would be wiser to pull out fast -- for example, gung-ho about certain \\"feminist\\" ideas that she has picked up, Bitsy has decided to hire an all female crew of workers (Jane and Shelley are not at all certain about the wisdom of that particular move); the contractor, Sandra Anderson, strikes them as being both incompetent and strange; and someone has been playing a series of dangerous pranks on the workers. And the pranks result in a death...<br />The saddest thing about this book was that it mirrored Jane's feelings of restlessness and boredom -- that spark of lively humour that characterised previous Jane Jeffry novels was completely absent. Add to that the fact that Shelley's character has somehow gone beyond ordinary bossiness into the realm of almost unpleasant, and I began to wonder if Jill Churchill had actually written this book! The mystery went no where for much of the book: Jane and Shelley would take a stab at 'interviewing' the suspects, and then do other things (shop, eat, garden, etc) and then look at the mystery from different angles before giving up for a good night's sleep.And when they finally crack the case, it is because Jane stumbles onto the answer by accident -- no taxing of the 'little grey cells.' But my biggest criticism was that Jill Churchill stereotyped the so-called 'feminists' in this novel. They were the usual short-haired, strident, angry male haters who may be lesbians, that the main stream media usually portrays all feminists to be. <br />Unfortunately \\"The House of Seven Mabels,\\" does not compare well, esp when you consider the previous Jane Jeffrey mystery novels (those were real gems). And that is a real shame.	2002-08-08
1449871:US	52830980	R3RRV6POEW3ABL	0312285019	272203908	The Bawdy Basket: An Elizabethan Theater Mystery Featuring Nicholas Bracewell (Elizabethan Theater Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	an engrossing and entertaining read	It should have been one of their more glorious summer seasons. Instead, the Westerfield players are now facing near annihilation! When the players first learn that Frank Quilter's father (Gerard) has been executed for murder, the superstitious actors, sure that Frank's father was guilty of the crime, and worried that the notoriety of the Quilter name will rub off on them, are anxious that Frank be asked to leave the company. Only the threat from their much valued stage manager and problem solver, Nicholas Bracewell, prevents this turn of events. Sure that Gerard was innocent of the accusation of murder, and eager to help Frank clear his father's name, Nicholas threatens to leave the company unless Frank is allowed to remain, and he (Nicholas) be allowed to investigate the case brought against Gerard. <br />The company also faces another threat to their well being: their faithful and brilliant playwright, Edmund Hoode, has fallen in love (again) with a rich and beautiful widow, and who seems to have her own plans for Hoode -- none of which includes his remaining with the company! Threatened on all sides, the players cannot help but wonder if all this spells the end of the company... Unless, of course, Nicholas manages to clear Gerard Quilter's name as well as come up with a plan to detach Hoode from his rich inamorata! <br />But will Nicholas be able to successfully clear Gerard Quilter's name? There are, to begin with, many vexing questions that have to be answered. For instance, why did two seemingly respectable merchants testify that they saw Gerard commit the murder? Why was Gerard fitted up for the charge in the first place? And who was the powerful enemy that set all this in motion? Before long Nicholas has managed to discover the answers to all these questions -- but not before more murders are committed and an attempt is made on his life...<br />Brisk, breezy and totally engrossing, \\"The Bawdy Basket\\" unfolded at an incredibly breathneck pace. I finished thebook before I even realised it -- I was that absorbed with the novel. However, I must own that the mystery at hand is not a very complicated one, nor are there any red herring suspects or cunning turns in the plot that will keep you guessing to the very end. Nevertheless, it was still an intriguing and interesting mystery novel and a definite pager turner. With so many Elizabethan theatre mystery novels being published almost everyday, ( and most of them being quite good), I was relieved to note that Edward Marston has not lost his entertaining and witty touch, and that the Nicholas Bracewell mystery series still remains one of the best (as well as one of my favourites) around. A fantastically good read.	2002-08-06
1450188:US	52830980	R2SCZN08D6Q74U	0451206789	653598974	Lady Sparrow (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	19	20	N	N	not the usual Barbara Metzger fare, but still enjoyable	\\"Lady Sparrow\\" is not the usual laugh-a-minute Barbara Metzger Regency romance novel that I've come to expect from her. It is much darker in tone (esp when one compares it to earlier works such as \\"The Painted Lady\\" & \\"Miss Westlake's Windfall\\"); nevertheless the book was still an engaging and engrossing read, and one that is definitely worth recommending.<br />Minerva Caldwell was barely eighteen when her father, shipyard magnate Malachy Caldwell, married her off to aging roue, Harold Sparr, the Earl of Sparrowdale. After five years of ill use and neglect, Minerva is now a very rich widow (esp since her father had seem fit to pass on within weeks of her husband's death), and Minerva could not be happier. To be rich and independent with nary a male relation to tell her what she can or cannot do! And then Minerva stumbles onto one of her dead husband's many secrets. It seems that the old man had fathered quite a few illegitimate children, all of whom he was caring for in a rather haphazard fashion. Determined to do right by these children (esp since she knows that the new earl will not), Minerva decides to track down the children and to offer them a home with her, and monetary assistance. But how is she to go about doing this without risking being taken advantage of by charlatans? That's when Minerva decides to hire Lord Lowell, a private inquiry agent, to help her. But when she does meet Lord Lowell, she is a little put off by the fact that he is quite young, the younger son of a duke and rather good looking. However, Lord Lowell's intelligence, kindness and good humour soon wins her over, as does his agreement to take on her case, and to allow her to take an active part in the investigation. Soon, Lord Lowell and Minerva are scurrying about London, going from one private adoption home to another, looking for the missing Sparr by-blows. The task is not an easy one, esp when Minerva comes to realise that someone is hell-bent on thwarting their efforts and that she isin danger of losing her heart to her reserved and quite above her touch Lord Lowell.<br />\\"Lady Sparrow\\" is quite a taking and engaging novel, even if it is not a very lighthearted one. Both Minerva's and Lord Lowell's characters are rather well developed (esp Minerva), as was their romance. And they were such nice and likable characters (without coming across as pushovers) that it would have been really difficult not to take them completely. But what I particularly liked about this novel was that both characters first developed an admiration and liking for each other's characters before they fell, inevitably, in love with each other. It made for a nice change of pace -- for character to come before lust, instead of the other way around. All in all, a rather enjoyable read	2002-08-06
1450818:US	52830980	R1XSIQPMJNZGDS	0451206797	472935232	The Discarded Duke (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	a brilliant read	&quot;The Discarded Duke&quot; is not the typical Regency fare that one usually gets -- it's not a dark gothicky romance, nor is it a light comedy of manners featuring tea parties and beaux. Rather, it is a deeply character driven romance that focuses on a group of characters, all with emotional baggage of their own, and a few secrets that they'd rather not face. I rather enjoyed this romance novel, and fairly devoured it. However I do think that this book would have benefited immensely if it had been a much longer one, as the character development, as well as the story development, would have really benefited from more exposition.<br />William Ridd has spent a great many years cross breeding and developing the best wool bearing sheep for the Duke of Ardsley at one of the duke's lesser Devon properties, Myrmion. And because of his hard work and enterprising ways, he's also been responsible for the prosperity of the estate and of Stratton Valley. Now however, everything is about to change for the duke has decided to sell the sheep and to turn Myrmion into a horse breeding farm instead. Will is aghast and angry -- all his hard work and his dreams for Myrmion and the people of Stratton are about to go up in smoke. He tries to reason with the duke, but it would seem as if the duke only has eyes and ears for the beautiful Irish widow, Lady Ursula Roarke, who put the insane idea in his head in the first place! And while Will cannot deny that the lady's beauty and guile has affected him as well, he senses that this engaging widow has plans of her own where the duke is concerned and that they're not all centered around horse breeding.<br />Ursula is badly in need of funds. Her reckless husband is dead, and she has to come up with quite a lot of money in order to settle his numerous debts. Facing a life of penury, Ursula has decided to marry for money this time, instead of love. And when she meets the Duke of Ardsley, she decides that he will do for a second husband. Using his interest in starting his own breeding stable and her horses as bait, Ursula hopes to entice the duke into proposing marriage. But now her hopes have hit a snag in the form of Will Ridd. But the more she sees of all that Will has accomplished, the more guilty she feels about what harm her mercenary plans will bring about. And than there is the unpalatable fact that she's growing more and more attracted to Ridd as the days pass. What should she do? Carry on with her original plans? Or give up and move on? And what of her reluctant attraction to the boorish and bumbling Will Ridd? <br />I've only detailed part of the plot of &quot;The Discarded Duke.&quot; There is a lot more that goes on in the novel. Each character has a past and secrets that haunts and dictates how they behave and go about things. And it is this aspect that makes this romance novel a much richer read than it might have otherwise been. This novel is entirely character driven, which is a little unfortunate in that many characters were not as fully developed as they should have been, and remained a little two-dimensional. This was really unfortunate, because otherwise &quot;The Discarded Duke&quot; would definitely been a 5 star read. Otherwise, the novel unfolded smoothly and at a brisk enough pace. There was an element of coincidence about this novel, but Nancy Butler handled this aspect in such a manner as to make it quite believable and probable. All in all, a jolly good read.	2002-08-06
1450983:US	52830980	RY9OYNUKTDIGC	0385335350	230297888	A Summer to Remember	Books	4	27	31	N	N	an enjoyable 3 1/2 star read	While I don't exactly share the first reviewer's sentiments about \\"A Summer to Remember\\" honesty compels to agree that while this was a rather agreeable and enjoyable read, there was really nothing incredibly earth-shatteringly new or fresh about this latest Mary Balogh Regency romance. Everything depends on one's personal taste: compared to \\"No Man's Mistress (too improbable a plot -- supposedly 'honourable' heroes don't force their presence on the households of respectable young ladies, no matter the circumstances) and \\"More Than a Mistress\\" (the last few chapters of that book made me quite ill), \\"A Summer to Remember,\\" was a welcome relief. It seemed to herald (for me anyway) the return of the Mary Balogh who knew how to make her characters engaging and sympathetic.  <br />For all of us who wondered whatever would happen to Miss Lynn Edgeworth after \\"One Night of Love\\" this novel answers those all questions in spades. And while it is not exactly essential to have read that book before embarking on this one, being familiar with some of the finer workings of that plot does help. It's been almost a year since Lauren was left at the altar because of the return from the dead of her intended's previous wife. Outwardly, the very cool, calm and collected Lauren gives the impression that she's recovered from the humiliation of losing Neville (her intended and her greatest love) but inwardly, the pain of the rejection has never left. Now, she's in London for some time away from painful memories. Unfortunately, her family and friends seems to have plans to introduce her to as many eligible bachelors as possible. And for a young lady who has decided never to marry, such a situation is well neigh intolerable! <br />In the meantime, Kit Butler, the Earl of Ravensberg, receives news that his father is planning to marry him off the his dead brother's fiance. Kit is both angry and bitter about his family's highhandedness; and desperate to thwart his father's plans, he concocts ascheme to find his own bride. However, which respectable young lady would marry an infamous rake such as he? And when he notices Lauren and learns of her reputation, he decides that Lauren just might be the bride for him. Lauren however has other plans -- she has no wish to marry. And so she poses a counter scheme: she will pose as his fiance, and Kit will give her a summer of fun (her previous life has suddenly struck her as being rather unadventurous and dull), but at the end of the summer, she will disengage herself from him and they will each go their separate ways. Kit is intrigued and nothing loath, agrees to Lauren's scheme. But as the summer progresses, Kit comes to see that Lauren just might be the ideal wife for him, and he discovers that he is in danger of losing his heart to her. But not only is Lauren (he thinks) still in love with Neville, she has no intention of marrying at all. Can a rake who used to pride himself on his ability to seduce any woman persuade a respectable and decorous young lady to give up her plans and settle on him?<br />The plot is a much used and rather basic one. What makes this novel incredibly engrossing and enjoyable was the manner in which the authour brings Lauren to life --  the pain she suffers when her hopes were dashed, her dissatisfaction with her life, the joy she takes from the simple pleasures that Kit introduces her to (like swimming) and the manner in which she handles a few sticky situations. This is a tale of a young woman coming into her own, and what a joy it was to read those bits of the novel. Kit's and Lauren's romance however had me in two minds -- Balogh does show how well they deal with each other, but while their romance was quite sensuous, it was also at times a little ho-hum. As for Kit, well he's the usual self-centered hero, with some redeeming characters. I, personally enjoyed the scene in which his younger brother finally told him off. I probably would have broken his nose as well, but if you onlyhave one arm (as Kit's brother has) breaking other people's noses could be a problem.<br />On the whole, I'd say that this novel was quite an enjoyable read and rates somewhere in the 3 1/2 stars realm. It even hints that there may be more novels featuring a few characters from this novel. I do hope so, for I'm dying to see how things turn out between Gwen and Ralf Bedwyn! A good read.	2002-08-05
1452132:US	52830980	RUYS4QCIZF6QW	0821772902	23821080	Miss Whiting And the Seven Wards (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	great fun	If you're in the mood for some fairy tale-like escapist fun, you really can't go very wrong with this first installment in Lynn Collum's latest trilogy, \\"Miss Whiting and the Seven Wards.\\" Based (quite heavily) on the Snow White fairy tale, this sweet natured and charming story was fun to read. However a small word of warning: \\"Miss Whiting and the Seven Wards\\" really does read like fairy tale. The hero and heroine more or less fall in love at first sight, and while there is quite a bit of interaction between the two, never really 'talk' to each other. (In other words, this is not a very 'deep' or multi-layered book). However, if you can overlook this one niggling factor, the novel becomes quite the fun read, and is a good a way as any to have a couple of hours of escapist fun.<br />When Mrs. Parsons Academy for Girls closes down, Miss Sarah Whiting realises that she will now have to go home to a stepmother who not only doesn't want her but who actively dislikes her as well. Sarah soon finds that her fears are well founded. Jealous of Sarah's beauty, Lucinda, the Dowager Lady Whitefield, keeps Sarah in complete seclusion, while she (Lucinda) does her level best to snare herself another rich husband. And then the ladies receive news that Sarah is now an heiress. Anxious that she should inherit Sarah's new found wealth, Lucinda sets in motion a murderous plan to rid herself of Sarah permanently. Fortunately, Sarah doesn't die, and is rescued by Ward brothers instead.<br />Elsewhere Sir Evan Beaumont has allowed being badly scarred and the jilting of his erstwhile fiance to give him full permission to sink into a fit of dismals. Alarmed at the state he finds Sir Evan in, his friend Titus Lindon, the new Earl of Longmire, inveigles Sir Evan to take care of a small problem for him. Apparently the previous earl had given one of the Longmire estate's more desirable tenancies, rent free to a young widow with seven sons for the duration of her lifetime. Now Titus has just gotten married. And his new wife wants the cottage for her own mother and invalid sister. Sure that Mrs. Ward was once the previous earl's mistress, Titus wants Sir Evan to get the \\"widow\\" to vacate the cottage. Sir Evan agrees to undertake the task. But upon reaching the cottage and making the acquittance of Mrs. Ward and her seven sons, finds himself becoming quite charmed and enamoured with the family. How on earth can he participate in a plan to put this enchanting family out on the streets? However, Sir Evan also senses that the Wards are hiding something. And he is determined to get to the bottom of it even as he finds himself in danger of losing his bruised heart irrevocably to the mysterious Mrs. Ward.<br />As for Sarah, she has agreed (albeit reluctantly) to pretend to be the boys' mother so that they will not loose the cottage and be put into the workhouse. But that was before the complication of Sir Evan and her feelings for him intruded. Add to that her fear that Lucinda will discover that she is still alive and come after her, and you have one extremely skittish and nervous young lady. Can Sarah afford to trust Sir Evan with truth? But what if he betrays them and the boys end up in a work house? Suddenly, life for Sarah has become a lot more complicated and perilous than she ever thought it could be...<br />This latest Lynn Collum offering was a pure joy to read. The plot is not very deep, and the characters were all stock character types. But that didn't detract from the enjoyment I gleaned from reading this novel one bit. If anything it's made me all the more eager to read her next installment in this fairy tale trilogy.	2002-08-05
1454072:US	52830980	R14EJ9XGKZ14CK	072785707X	737816251	Red Herring (Chief Inspector Woodend Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	another brilliant installment in a really splendid series	It's 1962 -- the United States of America and the Soviet Union are flexing their respective muscles regarding the missiles in Cuba, as the entire world holds its collective breath, waiting for World War III to break. But in the small town of Whitebridge, the villagers are soon caught up in another game -- that of the murder of a young school mistress, and the kidnapping of a young girl...<br />When the body of Verity Beale (a school mistress at the extremely exclusive King Edward VI Grammar School) is found in a pigsty (the back of her head bashed in) DCI Charlie Woodend and his sidekicks DI Rutter and DS Monika Paniatowski are called in to investigate. But almost from the first something about the very personal manner in which Verity Beale's body was disposed of, coupled with the strange manner in which news of her death affects the people who knew her in Whitebridge, warns Woodend that something out of the ordinary is up. For a school teacher at a very posh school which guards it's reputation jealously, Verity seems to have had the reputation of a good-time girl. Certainly her colleagues seem to have had a not too high opinion of her. Trying to form an idea of what kind of person Verity was, Woodend institutes a search into her background, but comes up with very vague and unsatisfactory answers. It's almost as if Verity Beale didn't exist before she came to Whitebridge! However, before Woodend and company have even started their investigations properly, one of the pupils at the grammar school, Helen Dunn, goes missing. Fearing that she may have been kidnapped by a pedophile, Woodend is ordered to abandon his investigation into Verity's murder in favour of trying to rescue Helen before it's too late. With the memory of another case in which he failed to rescue a kidnapped girl, Woodend is nothing loath to take on the kidnapping case. But it isn't too long before our canny detective is wondering if the two cases are connected in some way. Was Helen kidnapped becauseshe knew something about Verity's murder? Or was Verity murdered because she had stumbled onto a plot to kidnap Helen? With the life of a young girl in the balance, Woodend puts his career on the line one more time, esp when it becomes clear to him that someone with a lot of power is muddying the waters and blocking both investigations...<br />I think that Sally Spencer's DCI Woodend seires is probably the best in police procedural books around. Not only is each mystery novel steeped in the feel and culture of the period, but each book has been a page turner. Cleverly paced, and with really interesting and gripping plots, each novel has been a gem to read. And a personal plus for me, each novel has (so far) not become terribly entwined with the personal lives of the police officers featured. Nothing against getting to know more about the detectives and their personal lives, but of late I've come away with the feeling that (sometimes) the personal aspect has more or less kidnapped the mystery plot so that you're not always reading a murder mystery that is really stellar.<br />On the other hand, \\"The Red Herring\\" was a brilliant read that will keep you guessing for quite a while. Some aspects of the mystery at hand was (I'll admit) easy to guess, but denouncement of the chilling whole, quite took my breath away. Why this authour is not winning award after award for sheer and consistent brilliance, is a mystery to me.	2002-08-02
1458605:US	52830980	R2YN6I8NQ21HUA	0312282648	751287852	The Slayers of Seth: A Story of Intrigue and Murder Set in Ancient Egypt (Ancient Egypt Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	an intriguing read	Truth to tell I've not exactly been a fan of Paul Doherty's Lord Amerotke mystery novels. I rather prefer Lynda Robinson's Lord Meren and Lauren Haney's Lieutenant Bak books to the Amerotke ones. (Also, I find Shufoy, Amerotke's manservant and sidekick, to be really irritating character.) However, I must own that this latest Amerotke's installment was a really interesting and compelling one. I was well and truly glued to the pages; and based on the strength of how much I really liked \\"The Slayers of Seth,\\" I've decided to spend this coming weekend rereading the previous books in this series, to see if a second reading of these novels will turn me into a fan of the series.<br />Superstitious dread fills the city of Thebes when General Balet is found murdered in the Temple of Seth. Balet was once part of an elite regiment, the Slayers of Seth (also known as the Panthers of the South), who were responsible for a great victory that the Egyptians had over one of their most vicious of enemies, the Hykos, a few decades ago. Mindful of the debt that her family and all of Egypt owes Balet, Pharaoh Hatusu decides to take a personal interest in the unmasking of Balet's murderer. <br />The manner in which Balet was ritualistically slain -- his eyes were removed from their sockets and his hands and feet bound by a piece of read cord -- suggests that someone is out to settle some old scores. But who and why? Was Balet murdered so that a private grudge could be settled? Or could his death have anything to do with the defeat of the Hykos all those years ago? Because Balet and remaining members of the Slayers of Seth had all received threatening gifts within the past few weeks, Pharaoh Hatusu is convinced that someone is avenging the Hykos defeat and that the surviving members of the regiment are in danger. And she orders Amerotke to get to the bottom of the matter swiftly. The mystery, however, becomes even more bewildering when the body of a young temple dancer is pulled from theNile, her eyes similarly removed and her hands and feet also bound with red cord. Did Balet's murderer also kill the dancer? If so, why? And what on earth could a much venerated and famous general and a mere temple dancer have in common? What threat did they pose?<br />The mystery was a really intriguing and interesting one -- the plot not only flowed smoothly but also unfolded at a brisk pace. There was (also) another murder subplot that entwined the subplot I have outlined above (I'm not going to say what so that readers who have yet to read this book can enjoy all the subtleties of the mystery at hand), and how Paul Doherty entwines the two makes for some really engrossing reading. One note of caution however, readers used to alot of fast paced action may be a little put out with this particular mystery novel. There is a lot more conversation in this book than is per usual. So that if you enjoy long exchanges between characters, the minute cross-examining of witnesses and private ruminations of characters involved in the investigation, than this book will be a treat. I, definitely enjoyed reading \\"The Slayers of Seth.\\"	2002-07-30
1460316:US	52830980	R3PEKP7RCKEOJS	0786234008	732758337	Seducing Mr. Heywood: A Regency Romance (Five Star First Edition Romance Series)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	a fantastic read	Lady Sophia Rowley, Sir Isaac Reblow's jaded and sophisticated mistress from \\"The Reluctant Guardian\\" is the heroine in this tale of redemption and love, \\"Seducing Mr. Heywood.\\" Though you might be forgiven in thinking that this romance novel about a young woman who has been more sinned against than sinning, and who finds her way back from the brink of self destruction,  should actually have been entitled \\"The Reforming of Lady Sophia.\\"<br />Thrice married, and now thrice widowed Lady Sophia Rowley has returned to Rowley Hall, in a high temper. Her ex-lover, Sir Isaac Reblow, whom she had hoped to marry upon her aged husband's death has married another, and she (Lady Sophia) is now the laughingstock of London. Unable to face the gossipmongers there, Lady Sophia has returned to Yorkshire for the duration of her period of mourning, but she is not happy at all. She finds the country side boring, her neighbours boorish, and she is not looking forward to reacquainting herself with the two young sons, John and William, she abandoned in favour of a good time in London. Furthermore, she has to contend with the village vicar, Mr. Charles Heywood, whom her husband had named as guardian of John and William. No, all in all Lady Sophia is not in a good humour at all.<br />And when she finally meets Heywood, she finds to her surprise that he is rather young and extremely good looking. Feeling rather bored, Lady Sophia sets out to seduce him into having a discreet affair with her. But to her surprise, anger and mortification, she finds that while Heywood is very susceptible to her charms, he refuses to fall in with her desires. And yet, something about the morally upright and deeply smitten young man (as well as the easy affection and acceptance of both her sons) inspires in Lady Sophia the wish to change from being the hard and brittle London socialite into something else -- to become the young lady she should have been before her father had started selling her off in marriage torich dissolute older men. But can the once notorious Lady Sophia, whose affairs were a byword of polite Society, change? And then Lady Sophia's despicable father, the Earl of Dunhaven, arrives at Rowley Hall, with a plan to marry her off to his latest protege. Will the earl succeed in his evil plan? And will the introduction of a gentleman from Lady Sophia's milieu spell the end of all of Heywood's hopes where the lady is concerned?<br />The plot is a rather sophisticated one in the sense that it deals with a heroine who has led a far from exemplary life. Rich, beautiful and somewhat rakish, Lady Sophia had (hitherto her husband's death) led a rather jaded and carefree existence -- having affairs with whomsoever she pleased, going from one social gathering to another with little thought of her ailing husband or the sons she left behind. The death of her almost too-saintly-for-words husband, her reconciliation with her sons, and her friendship with Charles Heywood, allows for Lady Sophia to see that there is another path open to her -- one would allows her to some self-respect and feelings of self-worth, as well as the promise of a deep and abiding love. However, as with all good stories, the path to redemption is not so easy. Lady Sophia has to contend with her uncertain temper, her father's evil machinations and the fact that her relationship with Heywood may actually harm his reputation and prospects. This plot is not a very original one, and is one that has been used over and over again. What I liked most about it was that it was the heroine who was a bit of a rake, and the hero who stuck to his guns about propriety. Far too often, in plots such as this one, the hero would have given in to the heroine's lures before the denouncement is reached and everything ends as it should. For the hero to remain firm and strong no matter the temptations Lady Sophia threw at him, was a refreshing change. And one that I welcomed.<br />The novel unfolded smoothly, if a bit slowly. But this allowed for the change in Lady Sophia's character to be believable and credible. As I noted before there is really nothing terribly new or different about this particular story. The difference lies in the manner in which Jo Manning tells her tale, and the clever way in which she manages to make one care about the characters and the manner in which the novel developed. A very engaging and elegant read.	2002-07-28
1461153:US	52830980	R2FXC600ND83AG	1929085079	976375421	The Reluctant Guardian	Books	4	5	6	N	N	one of the better romance novels I've read so far	Based on a series of letters that Jo Manning (the authour) came across many years ago, this (completely) fictitious accounting of the real romance between Mary Martin and Isaac Rebow, had me devoutly wishing that this authour had written a lot more Regency romances than she actually has. What a find this novel (and authour) was! &quot;The Reluctant Guardian&quot; is definitely one of the better romance novels that I have read so far, and I'm really puzzled as to why Jo Manning is not being more loudly touted as one of the better authours in this genre.<br />When Sir Isaac Reblow receives a missive from his dragon of a mother demanding that he see to his two abandoned cousins, he is quite irked. Apparently his loose crew of an uncle (Matthew Martin) had left his London house in the middle of the night, without leaving his daughters, Mary and Sally, any kind of missive at all. Isaac realises that what his mother wants is for him to pack the two girls home so that they can play nursemaid to her crochets. However, upon seeing his two cousins, and realising that they are two rather pretty and accomplished young ladies, Isaac decides to sponsor them to a Season instead, while he searches for their father. What Isaac refuses to do is to admit to himself that he has fallen violently in love (at first sight) with the delectable but strong minded Mary. For Isaac has suffered from being the only child of a deeply unhappy marriage, and doesn't believe that there is such an emotion love at all. <br />Mary, on the other hand, has been in love with her cousin Isaac for as long as she can remember. And now here he is, summarily ordering her about and insisting in running her life! Who would have thought that her beloved Isaac could be so cold and autocratic? But as the days pass, Mary finds that her childish adoration for Isaac has blossomed into a more adult love of a young woman for her soul mate. But how can she get Isaac to see that she is no longer a little girl, and that sheis a worthy mate for him? And what of Isaac's rumoured affair with the very beautiful and married socialite, Lady Sophia Rowley?<br />On paper, this romance novel reads like a great many other romance novels with similar plots. The difference lies in the excellent manner in which Jo Manning allows her plot to unfold. Completely character driven, and with a great eye for detail (whether it was for fashion, architecture or scenery) Jo Manning skillfully held my interest. So that even though there was nothing terribly new or different in &quot;The Reluctant Guardian,&quot; I felt as if I was reading something rare and precious. <br />The novel unfolded briskly and smoothly; and the characters were all brilliantly depicted -- esp those of Isaac's mother (a character so poisonous that one can dislike her heartily with ease), and Mary. I thought that the authour had captured Mary's tumultuous and confused feeling for Isaac beautifully. There are a couple of other minor subplots concerning Mary's and Sally's missing father, Isaac's entanglement with Lady Sophia, and Isaac's dealing with his harpy of a mother. And while the resolutions to these subplots were sometimes rushed, it was not too much of a detraction. On the whole, &quot;The Reluctant Guardian&quot; was a wonderfully engaging read. And I'll definitely be ordering a copy for my own collection!	2002-07-27
1462278:US	52830980	R2UW9JZLHIA4SN	0312278217	158956394	Inspector Anders and the Ship of Fools (Inspector Anders Mysteries Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	a fantastic read -- I was completely hooked!	This second Inspector Anders mystery novel is as intriguing and as compelling a read as the first book in this series. As with \\"The Wooden Leg of Inspector Anders\\" this novel also starts off a little slowly at first, and seems to move between countries and cities with very little ceremony. For readers used to a more opulent style of plotting, where everything is mapped out and revealed to the littlest detail, such a restrained and sparse style (even if it is a very lyrical one) can be a little off-putting. However, I'd encourage everyone to stick it out. Not only does the effort is pay off, but the novel does pick up speed and unfolds rather briskly about a quarter way into it. And in the end, the reader is rewarded with an incredibly memorable and luscious read.  <br />Seconded to Interpol after his Sicilian adventure, Inspector Anders and his sidekick, Matucci, find themselves behind the desk pushing paper-clips and files until a terrorist cell, the Judgement Day group, opposed to globalisation takes out a room full of executives in Frankfurt. Bloody and efficient, the whole thing leaves everyone flabbergasted -- how did the terrorists get through the topnotch security in order to plant the bomb? And why are they using verses from a fifteenth century work -- THE SHIP OF FOOLS -- to frame their manifesto? Are they trying to show off their intellectual prowess? Or do they verses hint at something more sinister? As the number of murderous assaults against the business community both in Germany and France mounts, and the German and French police chase after a terrorist they are sure is behind the whole thing, Inspector Anders senses that the actual perpetrator of this atrocity has been playing the authorities completely. Following his own instincts, he goes to Strasbourg, to the birth place of Sebastian Brant (the authour of THE SHIP OF FOOLS). Beginning their own investigation, Anders and Matucci follow the clues that pits them against a very methodical and committedintelligence and that pushes them almost to the brink of insanity...<br />Courteous, reserved, intelligent, and with his own fair share of inner demons, Inspector Anders (who describes himself as a 'rusty knight with a creaky leg) is the kind of charismatic detective that engages the imagination completely. Much of the enjoyment to be gleaned from this novel is from watching Anders grapple with inner workings of the intelligence he is up against. I enjoyed this novel completely. The mystery was a somewhat complex and intriguing one that had me glued to the pages. And I loved Marshall Browne's prose style, and the manner in which he juxtaposed the medieval histories of the European cities featured in this particular mystery with the workings of the modern world of high finance and big business. \\"Inspector Anders and the Ship of Fools\\" makes for a deeply absorbing read. And if you're a bit tired of the usual fare in police procedurals or who can do with a break from the 'cozies' should definitely give this series (and this particular installment) a go. You won't be disappointed.	2002-07-26
1470173:US	52830980	R1H7GITEG7K5CH	0373292171	923550417	A Wild Justice	Books	4	11	11	N	N	plot premise a tad implausible, but still a fun read	The premise of this historical romance novel is a little implausible (I don't think young ladies could have gone scurrying about all over London proper without some male family member noticing something and putting his foot down), but I rather enjoyed reading this book. The novel revolves around two subplots that are interconnected -- the first subplot involves a group of ladies hell bent on avenging wronged women; while the second subplot revolves around the pursuit of one of these young ladies by a very marriage minded gentleman. The second subplot is a rather predictable one -- you can almost guess what's going happen with each chapter as it does follow the usual formulae very closely. However, what really lifts \\"A Wild Justice\\" out of the realm of the ordinary, and makes it refreshingly different and worth reading, is the subplot involving ladies' pursuit of some much needed but rather 'wild' justice.<br />Lady Annica Sayles is a bit of a hellion: she smokes, gambles, flirts (but discreetly, of course) and has absolutely no intention of marrying. What Lady Annica is absolutely passionate about however, is meting out some much needed justice on the behalf of wronged women, on certain cads in society. In this, she is ably assisted by her friends: Charity Wadlow, Constance Bennington, Grace Forbrush and Lady Sarah Hunter. Currently, the ladies are pursuing the 'gentlemen' who raped Lady Sarah. However, another case has also caught their attention: that of the mysterious disappearance of a governess. Unanimously, the ladies agree to investigate the woman's disappearance, esp since it seems to the third such disappearance in a matter of weeks. <br />Elsewhere, Tristan Sinclair, the Earl of Auberville, has decided to throw his hat into the matrimonial ring. Bu he doesn't want just any wife. No, he needs a wife who would be able to be a successful society hostess, but who is trustworthy and honourable, and who has no desire to have a husband constantly hanging about her elbow. For the earl actually works for the Foreign Office, and is constantly undertaking some investigation or the other. The last thing he needs is a clingy wife who will interfere with his work. And when a friend brings Lady Annica to his notice, the earl decides that she is exactly the wife for him. (The fact that he finds her very desirable doesn't really come into it.) But how to convince a lady who is vehemently against marriage to change her mind?<br />The novel follows the earl's determined pursuit of Lady Annica, as she tries to juggle her confused feelings about him and marriage, with her determination to bring certain wrongdoers to justice. As I've already noted, that bit is rather formulaic. The bits I really liked dealt with Lady Annica and her friends as they wrestled with the task at hand. This was really nicely done, and showed how women too could be organised, competent and intelligent. And that's what made reading this novel such a joy for me -- the friendship that these women shared and their commitment to their 'cause.' <br />The novel unfolded at a brisk and smooth pace, and the characters were all rather nicely drawn. Although, I'll admit it took me a while to warm up to the earl. He was just a tad too autocratic and smug and manipulative for my taste. And his high-handed manner towards Lady Annica -- I won't even touch that!(Also it took him the entire book to admit his feelings for Lady Annica.) I'll also admit to being a tad disappointed with the manner in which Lady Annica's character shifted from being really in control of everything in the first few chapters to being someone who couldn't think her way out a paperbag. However, \\"A Wild Justice\\" has that something that lifts it from the usual fare. So that while much of it was the same old thing, I really enjoyed the book immensely. And I do hope that there will be future books that will feature the other intrepid women in this novel.	2002-07-19
1476748:US	52830980	RRJIY9WADGJ2L	078671008X	281239572	The Pale Companion: A Shakespearean Murder Mystery	Books	4	2	3	N	N	a 4 1/2 star read: clever and amusing	Philip Gooden is, in my opinion, one of the most creative historical mystery writers around. Not only has he been able to fit his mysteries around Shakespeare's plays (successfully and in an interesting manner at that), but he has also written (three so far) vastly different kinds of murder mysteries, and all within the same series. The first Nick Revill book for example (\\"Sleep of Death\\"), was a psychological murder mystery of sorts, while the next one (\\"Death of Kings\\") was more of a novel of murder and political intrigue. This latest Nick Revill installment again is slightly different from the first two in that it is almost a 'cozy' murder mystery. \\"The Pale Companion\\" takes place in the country, at Instede House (the country estate of Lord and Lady Elcombe) -- an estate that is quite the architectural gem, even if there seems to be an atmosphere of gloom and menace all over the place!<br />The Chamberlain's Men have been asked to journey to the country in order to perform at the wedding nuptials of the heir to Instede House. They are to perform William Shakespeare's \\"A Midsummer Night's Dream.\\" And for Nick Revill, one of the younger actors in the company, this performance also heralds his ascent through the ranks to playing more significant roles. Only a portion of the Chamberlain's Men are to make this journey across the Wiltshire Downs, and some of the parts are to augmented by members of the house party itself (indeed the part of Demetrius is to be played by the groom's brother). As such, Nick has been promoted from playing much smaller and more insignificant parts to that of Lysander, one of the star-crossed lovers, in this production. However, Nick's excitement over his new role (and over the prospect of a new love) soon suffers a set back. In spite of the fact that there is an air of festivity at Instede House, there also seems to be a sense that there is something menacing and evil lurking under everything. Could the unhappy truth that Lord Elcombe's elder son has no desire to marry his chosen bride be colouring the atmosphere at Instede House? Or the fact that both Lord Elcombe and his steward, Oswald Eden, seem to be rather unpleasant individuals? Or could Nick's feelings of unease stem from the enigmatic utterances of the wild man (who lives in the woods adjoining Instede House), who claims that Instede House has its fair share of dark and dangerous secrets? Whatever the case, the grim atmosphere is definitely getting to Nick! And then the wild man is found hanged in the woods. Everyone assumes suicide. But Nick discovers evidence that points to the contrary. With the help of the local magistrate, Nick sets out to discover why the wild man was murdered, and exactly what dark secrets Instede House holds...<br />\\"The Pale Companion\\" is a deeply atmospheric book. Not in the sense that it is a gothicky read, but rather that there is a dreamlike quality that quite colours the mood of the book. Everything that happens, everything Nick sees and observes, has that otherworldly quality, so that (along with Nick) one is sometimes unsure as to whether or not what we see our detecting hero observing is fact or fiction. This sets the tone, and makes reading \\"The Pale Companion\\" very compelling. It can be argued, however, that mystery-wise, this novel is not quite that exciting a read. The plot is not a deeply complex one that is full of cunning twists and turns, nor is it full of read herring suspects for the reader to ponder over. Indeed, Philip Gooden takes quite a while to set the stage, and the first murder doesn't even take place till halfway through the book. But, if you're looking for a book with an interesting storyline, good historical detail, complete with compelling characters, and a narrative that will keep you amused and glued to the pages, than you can't go very wrong with \\"The Pale Companion.\\" All in all, this latest Nick Revill adventure makes for some truly brilliant reading.	2002-07-13
1481825:US	52830980	R33ZDE9B2WABNA	0553109359	756452714	Wet Grave (Benjamin January, Book 6)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	brilliant, as usual	When it comes to historical mysteries, I'm pretty much an Anglophile. However, Barbara Hambly's Benjamin January series is definitely one of my favourites. Every single book in the seires has been like a poem -- haunting, lyrical, and beautifully written -- and \\"Wet Grave\\" is no exception to this rule.<br />The opens with the discovery of a brutal murder. Hellfire Hessy, a raddled drunk who lived in a rather lawless shanty on the fringes of New Orleans, is found slashed to death. Because the police are a no show (there is a more socially prominent case that they've been called in on), Benjamin's sister, Olympe, calls upon Benjamin to do something about Hessy's murder. Benjamin recognises the dead woman as being Hesione LeGros, once the mistress of one of Jean Lafitte's corsair captains. And even as Benjamin is marveling at Hesione's fall from grace -- to go from being a courtesan of some renown to a drunken hag in a matter of a few decades -- he notices that there are indications that Hesione's murder, far from being some sort of random act of violence was actually a premeditated one. For Hesione's murderer, had not only waited for her to return to her shack, but (s)he had also carried out a methodical search of the room and of all of Hesione's belongings. Who would have wanted to kill Hesione? Why was she killed now, when she has become one of the flotsam's of life? And what was the murderer looking for? Saddened and angered (because the police are doing nothing) by Hesione's murder, Benjamin decides to do some digging of his own, little expecting the strange twists that this investigation will take, and how it will impact on his life...<br />I know some reviewer somewhere decided that this novel started too slowly for his/her taste. I can only speculate that this reviewer has not read other Benjamin January mystery novels. And anyway, quite to the contray, \\"Wet Grave\\" did not start out slowly at all. Barbara Hambly always takes great care to create just the righttone and ambiance for her Benjamin January books. Some may decide that this care takes up too much time, preferring that the authour got to the nitty-gritty of mystery with little fanfare. All I can say is that I'm personally glad that Barbara Hambly cares about 'setting the stage' right. Because the care she takes always pays off in spades, and we benefit by getting a book that is fairly reeking with rich detail and atmosphere. I also like that all the books in this series (\\"Wet Grave\\") included unfolds in a lyrical and smooth manner, and that she always peppers her novels with (usually) little discussed historical bits about what life was like for the free men and women colour, esp the placees. This entire series makes for avid reading, and \\"Wet Grave\\" is as brilliant and absorbing a read as the other books in the series.	2002-07-09
1485728:US	52830980	R4YTFGAN4OHA0	0821773208	28236462	His Saving Grace (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	hero's &amp; heroine's interaction lacked romance	If you like romance novels where the hero and the heroine are constantly misunderstanding each other and are at loggerheads, look no further, &quot;His Saving Grace&quot; is bound to satisfy. However, if you're looking for something more, like a tender romance, a hero and heroine that possess some charisma  and that will have you rooting for them to get that happily ever-after fairy tale ending -- well, save your money for another book. <br />Adam Havenhurst, the younger brother of the Earl of Foxworth, has decided to turn over a new leaf. Where once he was a rakish fribble, he has turned to religion, determined to make up for his past dissipations. And he has just been appointed as the new vicar of Pixley, a small village parish. Adam is determined to do his best in his new job as spiritual leader of his new flock. <br />Almost the first person Adam meets as soon as he arrives at Pixley is the delectable Grace Edgewood, a schoolmistress at a local seminary for young girls. Adam finds that he is entirely susceptible to the charms of this beautiful school teacher. So that it is a shock when he realises that Grace teaches at a rather progressive seminary that teaches subjects like Latin, mathematics, geography and (gasp) swimming and fencing. Adam is aghast, and tries to warn Grace against embarking on such a curriculum. <br />Grace, on the other hand, is naturally incensed. Who exactly does this stiff, disapproving, supercilious vicar think he is? And what right does he have to disapprove of the school's curriculum for the girls? A battle of will ensues between the two combatants. Each sure that the other is wrong, with each secretly attracted to the other. And then Adam's rakish brother turns up and makes a play for Grace. Will Adam loose Grace to the earl? And will Grace and Adam be able see their way through the fog of misapprehensions in which they seem to fairly revel, in order to realise their feelings for each other?<br />The novel started out promisingly enough, and actually had a central theme I hold dear: the education of young girls. The trouble, for me, was with the manner in which the two principal characters interacted with each other. Except that each was drawn to the other's looks, I couldn't for the life of me see what they each saw in the other. They clearly did not share any ideas or beliefs. And they spent an awful lot of time snipping at and disapproving of each other. Also they were each really quick to believe the worst in the other. How romantic can that be? Adam was entirely too stiff, supercilious and unforgiving. Someone should have clued him into the fact that a vicar doesn't always have to disapprove of everything under the sun, and that an open minded and understanding man of the cloth is what everyone really needs. As for Grace, she frequently behaved in a very shrewish and shrill manner. How anyone can be expected to carry on caring for someone who is always railing and having tantrums at him, flabbergasted me. <br />I'm not sure what happened with &quot;His Saving Grace.&quot; The plot premise was an interesting and promising one. And truth to tell some of the misunderstandings and situations that Adam and Grace found themselves in were mildly amusing. But for me the success of the novel finally boiled down to the chemistry between Grace and Adam. and I couldn't get past his disapproving stiffness and her shrewishness. Sad to say, in spite of its initial promise, this novel just didn't 'work' for me. And that is a shame.	2002-07-06
1486606:US	52830980	R97AIYHL0Y3VO	0821770977	556415717	The Merchant Prince	Books	4	5	6	N	N	an engaging read	When I first saw this book, I thought that (judging from its title) it would be either about a romance that develops between a society beauty and a cit, or else about a romance that develops between a tonnish miss and a nobleman who has taken to trade. The last thing I expected was an engaging novel that all about a rather complicated romance that grows between a young English beauty and a nationalist nobleman. The title still makes very little sense to me; but barring that niggle, Kate Huntington's latest Regency romance is one not to be missed. It's a poignant and intriguing novel that takes place mostly in Venice. The romance plot is an interesting and memorable one, and some of the characters (esp the hero and heroine) are both delightful and appealing.<br />It's spring of 1816, and seventeen year old Amelia Coomb is in Paris to visit the grave of her slain fiance, Lieutenant Quentin Lowell. Already in deep pain over her loss, the last thing Amelia needs to deal with is the imbecilic and brutish behaviour of her French coachman. And so she is quite relieved when a sympathetic priest comes to her rescue. His empathy and kindness touches her in a way that the sympathy of her friends and family has been unable to. And in a very short while, Amelia finds to her horror, that she has fallen in love with her kind and saintly Roman Catholic priest. Knowing that nothing good can come from her affections, Amelia leaves Paris, bitterly realising that for one so young, she has loved twice and lost twice, and that her life will never ever be as she dreamed that it.<br />What Amelia doesn't know is that her priest is actually the Venetian freedom fighter, Count Andreas Bricceti. The count never realised until too late that Amelia had mistaken him for a man of the cloth. Not wanting to embarrass her, he maintained this charade even as he wished that he could tell her the truth. Now, four years later, Amelia's and the count's paths are about to cross again. For Amelia, along with her friends Robert and Lady Madelyn Langtry, are about to travel to Venice for a little holiday. The count had once courted Lady Madelyn before she chose to marry Robert; and now, Lady Madelyn has decided that it would be nice to pair the count with Amelia. What will happen when the two meet? Will Amelia listen to the count's excuses and forgive all? And what impact will the count's dangerous politics have on their relationship?<br />&quot;The Merchant Prince&quot; is a fantastically entertaining read. It was nice to see familiar characters like the Langtrys again (characters that crop up regularly in Huntington's previous novels). And while the romance plot involving Amelia and the count was a good one, what I really liked about the novel was the manner in which Amelia's character came to life before my eyes. There was a kind of maturity and kindness and spirit about this character that made this novel readable and entirely compelling. She's the kind of heroine that most will find easy to empathise with and root for. I also liked this novel takes place almost exclusively outside England. It made for a really nice change of pace. Another thing I liked about this novel was subplot that dealt with the intrigue of Venetian politics. I think that the authour captured the atmospheric feel of this subplot beautifully. <br />On the whole, &quot;The Merchant Prince&quot; is a fantastic read that will definitely entertain.	2002-07-05
1487695:US	52830980	R2JDRE2VNQULPN	0821771027	132205236	A Spirited Romance (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	a pleasing and delightful read	Miss Vanessa Grayson is not your typical Regency heroine. She's able to see and converse with ghosts. And given that she is a young lady of extremely slender means, and has to fend not only for herself but also her younger sister, Melanie, and Melanie's infant son, it is indeed a fortunate circumstance that she is so singularly gifted. For Vanessa has come up with a rather nifty scheme in order to make ends meet: she hires herself out as a sort of ghost hunter. Currently, she is all the rage, and members of the ton are falling all over themselves in order to buy her services. <br />Lord Trent does not particularly believe in ghosts and thinks that Vanessa is a gross charlatan. He even suspects her of nefarious doings and of being party to his younger brother's disappearance. Trent's brother, Phillip, has decided to single-handedly unmask all those who are involved in a revival of the Hell Fire Club -- he wants to put an end to the club once and for all. The trouble is that Phillip has since disappeared, and Trent fears for his brother's life. Ferreting about, Trent has come to suspect that another aristocrat, Lord Corbin, may have something to do with this notorious club and Philip's disappearance. And when he discovers that Vanessa is a childhood friend of Corbin's, he adds two and two and comes up with five. Sure that Vanessa is involved with this nefarious goings-on and that she is the key to everything, Trent goes out of his way to charm her. But Vanessa keeps rebuffing his efforts. Stumped for the first time in his life (never before has he had to work so hard in order to win his way into a lady's good graces), Trent redoubles his efforts. And to his dismay finds that it is he who is in danger of losing his heart to the redoubtable Vanessa. What sort of man, he wonders, finds the woman whom he thinks is involved in his brother's disappearance, attractive and compelling? And what of the obviously close and affectionate relationship that Vanessa shares with Corbin? Is it an innocent one?  As for Vanessa, try as she might to remember that Trent is all but engaged to another lady, she cannot deny the attraction she feels for him. But men like Trent don't marry social nobodies, no matter the attraction. And then Vanessa receives news that Melanie's missing. And it is all she can do to juggle ghost hunting, her search for Melanie, and her feelings for Trent... -- how it will all end?<br />\\"A Spirited Romance\\" is an extremely delightful read. On the face of it, it seems as if almost too much is going on in this novel. However, Alana Clayton maintains a light but tight rein over everything, making the novel easy and engrossing reading. The one thing I really liked about the book was her portrayal of the hero, Lord Trent. Here is a man who keeps jumping from one erroneous conclusion to another, and who is spoilt and used to getting his own way far too often. As such, it would be quite easy to dislike Trent. However, because of the manner in which the authour tells the story, and because other characters keeps warning him about these failings, I didn't feel so much irritated with Trent as I was amused, as I read along and wondered what other wrong conclusions he would leap at. As for Vanessa, she the typically intelligent and courageous heroine that all readers will find easy to emapthise with and root for.<br />The novel unfolded smoothly and quickly. And all the characters were well drawn and depicted. So all in all, I'd say that this was a rather pleasing read that is bound to engage.	2002-07-04
1488160:US	52830980	R6B5VAZ3ZQLWI	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	5	77	80	N	N	the best in the series so far, I thought	Sometimes, when an authour gets tied to a series, the later books become formulaic and a little boring. Fortunately, this was not the case with Julia Quinn's latest romance novel, \\"Romancing Mr. Bridgerton.\\" This latest installment about the Bridgerton siblings was well worth the wait (I think that it took slightly more than a year for this novel to be published), and is, I think, the best book in the series so far. This novel is a wonderful mixture of romance, poignancy and whimsy. I fairly devoured the book, and was quite saddened to have finished it so quickly. I was also left with the fervent wish that there were more novels like this one out there for me to read.<br />Miss Penelope Featherington has been in love with her best friend's elder brother, Colin Bridgerton, ever since she was sixteen. Unfortunately, Penelope is not a raving beauty, or a gregarious, charming wit. Somewhat quiet and shy (and a little plump), Penelope is the sort of young lady that fades into the woodwork, and not at all the type to cause Colin's senses to swim. The years pass (about 12 to be exact) and Penelope has resigned herself to both remaining a spinster and having her love remain unrequited, when Colin Bridgerton, who has taken to traveling extensively in order to escape his managing mother's attempts to marry him off, returns from Cyprus. Now, Penelope sees Colin almost everyday, and at every social do. She discovers that she is as deeply in love with him now as she was all those years ago, and wishes fervently that she was the kind of woman who could ensnare his affections. However the Colin who came back is also slightly different -- restless, bored and a little discontented with the manner in which his life in unfolding. And while Penelope enjoys the time that they spend together, she cannot help but wonder how long she will be able to continue hiding her love for him? <br />After having spent so many years abroad, Colin Bridgerton returns to England, hoping to find somethingthat will chase this ennui away. Who would have believed that his thoughts would be full of shy, quiet Penelope Featherington?  And that he would enjoy her intelligence and dry wit to such an extent? Somehow, Penelope touches him in a manner that no other woman has before. And he finds himself wanting to protect her from the cruel and careless ways of the ton. His deep affection for Penelope, however soon begins to disturb him. Could he be falling in love with his sister's best friend? And does he even want to be in love?<br />Reading \\"Romancing Mr. Bridgerton\\" made me understand why so many other readers rave about Julia Quinn's talents. This was an entirely delightful and appealing read. I loved the manner in the authour made this novel to unfold. Julia Quinn took great pains to first allow for Penelope's and Colin's friendship to be reestablished by allowing them to have some really meaningful conversations, where they actually discuss things (like his boredom and her unhappiness over always being on the fringes of things), before she eased them into a romance. Ever so often, the hero and heroine barely share a thought before they begin their rather erotic encounters. So that it was a treat to have Penelope and Colin talk, and not about politics and social issues either. I also liked that although Penelope has loved Colin forever, she doesn't simply nod her head and agree with him on everything under the sun. Penelope has her own opinions. And even when she senses that her thoughts may not be the ones that Colin wants to hear, she doesn't shirk from sharing them with him. This is one romance that is, I think, really going to stand the test of time. <br />\\"Romancing Mr. Bridgerton\\" was a truly wonderful read about unspoken dreams and love. Mostly, however, eventhough this is a Bridgerton novel, this is a book that is actually all about Penelope -- about what life is like for a spinster who never 'took' and about the dreams and desires she never expected to be fulfilled. I found this novel to be an outstanding one, and one that was definitely worth treasuring.	2002-07-03
1489597:US	52830980	R1OHXLYXW8KJ5L	0451205898	359119946	Second Thoughts (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	an engrossing read	Sandra Heath seems to be becoming rather well known for incorporating myth and magic into her romance subplots. With &quot;Second Thoughts&quot; Ms Heath carries on with this practice by making the fantastical again a vital part of her storyline -- this time complete with magical sparks of light and both a talking cuckoo and leopard.<br />Two years ago, Lord Gerant Carismont lost his beautiful wife, Selena, in a drowning accident. His young daughter, Genevra, has never fully recovered from almost drowning along with her mother, and has lived isolated on Carismont Island (just off the Cornish shore) ever since. Now, however, because he feels that Genevra needs the special guidance of a lady, Lord Carismont has decided to hire a governess for Genevra. But when he meets Kate Kingsley (the lady he is about to hire to be Genevra's governess), a young widow with a young son of her own, he impulsively proposes marriage to her instead.<br />Because her financial situation is a precarious one, Mrs. Kate Kingsley desperately needs to find a job at once. And she is thrown when, instead of offering the position of governess, Carismont asks her to marry him instead. Of course it will be a marriage of convenience. What Carismont needs is a warm and caring woman who will hold the care and interests of Genevra close to her heart. And he feels that Kate is exactly the woman for the job. Kate is hesitant at first, but ultimately agrees to marry Carismont. It soon becomes evident to Kate however that there are supernatural forces at work that are bent on keeping Kate and Carismont apart. She even begins to have dreams/visions that suggest that Carismont is in deep danger. Added to all this is the dawning realisation that she has fallen in love with her new husband. But Carismont seems determined to keep Kate at arm's length. Kate, however, is determined to both win her husband's heart and to protect his from whatever forces that out to harm him. But does she have a hope of succeedingin either task?<br />&quot;Second Thoughts&quot; is a very well thought out and written romance novel, that cleverly incorporates elements of the Arthurian myths and elements of the fantastical (like the talking cuckoo and leopard). The bits that deal with the malevolent force that is bent or wreaking all kinds of hell on Kate, Carismont and Genevra, were well done too. I only had two real quibbles with this novel. The first one was that the authour doesn't really show us the romance that develops between Carismont and Kate. Or rather we're not shown how Kate's feelings for Carismont progresses from attraction to love. In the first chapter, she notices how sinfully good-looking Carismont is, and how attractive she finds him. However, a couple of chapters later she has a dream-vision of the future in which she's deeply in love with him and fears for his safety. And hey presto, from that point on, Kate's deeply in love with Carismont and starts to fret about his inability to reciprocate her feelings (when she's not worried about all the supernatural goings on and her husband's continued safety, that is). On the other hand, we do get to see Carismont's feeling shift from gratitude to love, so that there is an element of a love story in &quot;Second Thoughts.&quot; And I couldn't really see why, when Kate finally pins him down in order to question him about all the strange goings-on, he puts her off, asking her to be patient and wait for him to feel more comfortable with telling all. What was the man's problem? They were all in grave danger and their lives seemded to be at stake. So what on earth was he waiting for?<br />Quibbles aside however, I have to say that &quot;Second Thoughts&quot; was an enjoyable and charming read, that boasts of possessing a rather intriguing plot and a very courageous heroine. The novel unfolded smoothly and both Kate and Carismont proved to be the kind of adult protagonists (no tantrums, no high drama or shrewish behaviour) that make for arewarding and engaging reading experience. Definitely good reading.	2002-07-02
1489690:US	52830980	R1J5F7JDBGOI0K	0451203992	206018944	Daphne's Diary (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	14	15	N	N	she saw something nasty in the folly...	\\"Daphne's Diary\\" has, I think, the distinction of being one of the worst books I've ever read. The heroine (Miss Daphne Hightower) is a melodramatic twit, and the hero (Lord Alexander Heathercott) is a silly fribble -- there was nothing redeeming or likable about either of these two characters -- while the main plot is one of the weakest I've ever come across. Truth to tell I found it hard to believe that the same novelist that wrote \\"An Unsuitable Match\\" & \\"An Inconvenient Wife\\" (two novels I really loved) also wrote this really trite piece.<br />Daphne was a starry eyed fifteen year old when she saw something nasty in the folly. Shaken (and terribly stirred), she decamps from her sister's house (she had, up until that point been living with her heavily pregnant sister, Sophia), and makes for her grandfather's home, firmly determined never to marry. Men, Daphne's decided, are all brutes and cads and have unspeakable lusts. The novel than moves ten years forward. Daphne is now twenty-five, and considers herself to be an intelligent and sensible young lady. But she still has two particular bees in her bonnet -- 1) that she was 'damaged' by her youthful experience, and 2) that all men, except her grandfather, are beasts. Now however, her beloved grandfather, whom she had always considered her rock, is making noises that she must get married. Daphne is aghast, but her grandfather seems adamant. Will she be able to sway him to her way of thinking?<br />And this is where our 'hero' enters the picture. The younger son of a duke, Lord Alexander Heathercott spends his time moving from conquest to conquest. And one day while he is in the park, and on the lookout for his next mistress, he spies Daphne with her dog, and falls promptly in love with this mysterious but aloof beauty, and that she will be his next conquest. (What a gem, this man is!) What follows then is rather predictable storyline that follows Lord Alexander's attempts to woo Daphne, and her attempts to freeze him out. Will Lord Alexander succeed in his plans to seduce Daphne? Will Daphne overcome her fears of men and their lusts and give in to the handsome and intriguing Lord Alexander? And what will happen when Lord Alexander finally realises that Daphne is not some young lady who lives on the fringes of society but is actually an heiress in her own right?<br />Do we even care? I certainly didn't. I just didn't take to either Daphne or Lord Alexander at all. Take Daphne for example. She saw something shocking. I understand that as a gently nurtured young girl, what she saw really distressed her. But what follows is high melodrama at it's worst. Suddenly she has to flee from Sophia's home before she's 'damaged' more. She departs without leaving a note for Sophia (remember that Sophia is about to give birth at any minute), and flees as if the hounds of hell are after her. Never a thought of how this disappearance would have affected Sophia, because Daphne feels that Sophia is at fault for not having protected her from such sights and knowledge! (And why Daphne's abigail and her grandfather keep indulging the nitwit in her tantrums also flabbergasted me.) Daphne is so bitter at Sophia that she refuses to write or see her for ten years! Talk about holding a grudge. And then there are her diary entries: for a 25 year old, these ramblings are really juvenile, and were written in a mock-gothic manner. At least I hope they were mock-gothic. That Patricia Oliver may have meant for Daphne's musings to be taken seriously is almost too much to bear. As for Lord Alexander, he's just the typical rakish hero I have very little time for -- the kind of [guy] who assumes that every woman not of his social class must be open for some kind of liaison. And his sudden ascent into likeability and responsibility, towards the end of the book, cut no ice with me.<br />\\"Daphne's Diary\\" also had several other minor plot thread involving Daphne's inheritance, the return of a dirty dish of an uncle,and Patricia Oliver's attempts to make Daphne more grown up and likable, and to justify Daphne's behavior towards Sophia. But none of these threads made me change my original opinion of the book or characters. My advice: if you must read it, find a library copy, and save your hard earned money for some other Regency novel.	2002-07-02
1490384:US	52830980	R2AK6VLRIN7HN3	0451206622	773021166	The Former Fiance (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	great reading	Lady Madeline Donbeigh and Robinson Hollister, the sixth Earl of Rosegoode, have what could be described as a really twisted and entangled past history. Once upon a time, both Lady Madeline's father and Robinson's father thought it would be a good idea to promote a match between the two. Unfortunately a misunderstanding developed between both Lady Madeline and Hollister (each blaming the other for what happened), and the proposed match came to nothing. About a year following this episode, said fathers tipsily decide that it would be wonderful to promote a match between Lady Madeline and Robinson's elder brother, Elliott. This time there is an engagement, but for some reason or the other, Lady Madeline breaks off the engagement. Soon after this debacle, both brothers sign up to fight Bonarparte. Unfortunately, Elliott is killed in battle. And now, Robinson who never thought he would inherit his father's titles and lands, finds himself (following the death of his father) the uneasy new Earl of Rosegoode. Unwilling to become the typical English aristocrat, and wanting to retain some autonomy on his life, Robinson has used his new found wealth to start a protection agency. The last thing he ever expected was that Lady Madeline would walk into his office one day, asking for help. <br />The very last person Lady Madeline would have expected to have turned to for help was Robinson Hollister. She still is bitter about his past behaviour towards her. Unfortunately beggars cannot be choosers. And Lady Madeline is in a very precarious and dangerous situation indeed: she's being harassed by a determined lunatic. For some reason or the other, Baldwin Carmichael has decided that he wants to marry Lady Madeline, and will not take 'no' for an answer. Things have gotten to such a state that Lady Madeline is afraid for her life. Unfortunately, no one seems to share her fears. And so she's decides to take her fate into her own hands and hire Robinson to protect her. In spite of his poor opinion of Lady Madeline, Robinson agrees to take on her case, and decides to personally see to her protection. Together, the pair take off for the country, hoping to elude Carmichael. What follows in an adventure in which two people who have preconceived (and bad) opinions of each other, begin to see that everything is not a case of black and white. And that there is much to admire (and love) in each other. But will either be willing to let down his or her guard again? And what of the madman that is after Lady Madeline? Will they successfully thwart his plans once and for all?<br />\\"The Former Fiance\\" is an example of Teresa DesJadien's work at its best -- the story an exciting and engrossing one, and the main characters were engaging and interesting as well. I liked the manner in which the primary storyline -- the developing romance between Robinson and Lady Madeline -- was mapped out. It wasn't rushed, but progressed at a slow and steady rate, allowing for both principals to see that there was more to each other than they had hitherto suspected. It made the blossoming romance believable and a joy to read. I also liked the manner in which both characters were developed, esp Lady Madeline. In spite of the fact that she initially finds Robinson's highhandedness grating, she's also intelligent enough realise that she needs his expertise. And that if she hopes to survive Carmichael's madness, she'll probably have to toe the line. Lady Madeline's adult and sensible attitude was a welcome change. I had begin to doubt if historical romance heroines could behave sensibly at all!<br />All in all, I'd say that this was a wonderful read that everyone will be bound to find enjoyable.	2002-07-02
1496231:US	52830980	REMHFQHH1HNKZ	0451206282	631028646	The Disdainful Marquis, and The Abandoned Bride (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	absolutely brilliant!	Both &quot;The Disdainful Marquis&quot; &amp; &quot;The Abandoned Bride&quot; were published sometime in the 1980s, and both novels are examples as to why Edith Layton is considered by many to be a really good novelist. Riveting, absorbing and totally engaging, both these novels easily stand the test of time, and are as engrossing now as they were when they were first published. They also reminded me of the reason why I became so addicted to Regency romances in the first place: because the heroines that were usually featured in this genre were all mainly strong and resilient. The heroes were not always likable, but the heroines, whether they were beautiful beyond all description, or plain and ordinary, were all usually intelligent, responsible and courageous. <br />In &quot;The Disdainful Marquis,&quot; our young and determined to make-her-own-way-in-the-world heroine, Catherine Robins, is hired by the Dowager Duchess of Crewe, to be her companion. Outwardly, it seems as if Catherine has landed onto a cushy job; for the Duchess doesn't seem to require for Catherine to do anything except wear pretty but daring clothes, look decorative and 'be nice' to her gentleman friends. What Catherine doesn't know is that the Duchess has made herself the byword of society, and is known for hiring beautiful courtesans to act as her companions. It takes a while for Catherine to work out what's going on but by that time everyone assumes that she is a courtesan as well. The Marquess of Bessacarr in particular. And he spend an awful lot of time being cruel and mean to Catherine. And while Catherine loathes and distrusts Bessacarr, she finds, to her distress that she is not as immune to his 'charms' as she would like to be. What is Catherine to do? Give in to Bessacarr's vile advances or remain strong and inviolate no matter how tempted she is by his love making?<br />In &quot;The Abandoned Bride,&quot; Julia Hawkins is kidnapped by her erstwhile husband's uncle, Nicholas Daventry. A few years ago, Julia had eloped with the dashing Robin Marlowe. But for some reason, Robin abandoned her on their wedding night, leaving Julia ruined in the eyes of her little country village. Since then, Julia has been trying to put the whole episode behind her and to live her notoriety down. What Julia doesn't know is that Robin has been spinning a yarn about her cruelty and rejection to Nicholas, using her as the reason why he lives on the Continent, and why he refuses to assume his responsibilities. Nicholas is determined to reunite Julia with Robin in spite of his poor opinion of Julia. Julia, however, is unwilling, and so he kidnaps her. What follows is a tale of how two people who initially despise each other begin to realise that they are ideally suited to each other. However there is the complication of Julia's previous marriage. What will happen when Julia and Robin are finally reunited? And why did Robin leave Julia anyway? (It's easy to guess why and one wonders why Edith Layton made such a heavy going of it, but then it was the '80s.) And will Julia and Nicholas be allowed to find happiness together? <br />While the men in both stories left a lot to be desired, the women were pure gems. Both Catherine and Julia are the kind of strong, resilient heroines that we all wish we came across more often. And they weren't shrill or peevish either. I cannot tell you how much I enjoyed the competent manner in which both women dealt with the men in their lives, or how much joy I took in the intelligent way in which they told them off either. No hysterics, no tantrums, and no high drama that may have shifted one's sympathies towards the men. Both men behave terribly, and the women are not shy about registering their anger and disapproval. <br />Both these novel are great reads, and are an excellent showcase for Edith Layton's talent. (Unfortunately, you will not be able to appreciate the original cover art for both books. These older dustjacket illustrations really captured that male aristocratic essence better then than they do now. For some reason the men on the dustjackets nowadays look more like farmers than they do jaded lords). So, if you're looking for two really full bodies heroines (character-wise, not size), look no further. Both Catherine and Julia will definitely engage and endear themselves to you.	2002-06-27
1497356:US	52830980	RGI1M5P8JBBXM	084394997X	573918028	For the Love of Lila (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	2	3	6	N	N	hero's & heroine's careless behavior wasn't very credible	The previous reviewer has already done a rather good job of detailing the plot synopsis of \\"For the Love of Lila,\\" so I'll leave off doing the same. And truth to tell I was in two minds about this novel. On the plus side, I thought that Jennifer Malin did a fantastic job of letting us see things from Lila's point-of-view. Lila Covington wants to break the trust that her seemingly liberal father had set up for her, so that she can stop living with her narrow-minded relatives, move to Paris and take up writing full time. Her stance is understandable: after all it is her money. She should be allowed to use her inheritance to live as she wishes and to pursue her dreams. Lila's frustration with the fact that she is subject to the whims and laws of a conservative society is also understandable. Unfortunately, from that point on, the story lost credibility for me. Because I don't want to spoil things for those who may not share my feelings, I'll leave out all the things that made me wince. Usually however, either the hero or the heroine behaves in a manner that is too foolish for words. In \\"For the Love of Lila\\" however, both Lila and Tristan Wyndam (the hero) keep making one foolish mistake after the other, so that you actually begin to wonder how 1) Lila could be considered an intelligent young woman? and 2) how Tristan had managed to build up a law practice of some repute?<br />For example, Tristan is about to throw his hat into the political arena. So naturally his solution to helping Lila travel to Paris is to suggest that she travel with him as his 'pretend' wife. Just the thing for any budding politician -- a sex scandal in the making. Of course Lila has her own ideas: she wants to make the voyage by masquerading as a boy. I won't go into what happens next except to wonder why, if Mary Wollstonecraft (Lila's idol) was able to travel to Paris just as the French Revolution was heating up, in the company of a married couple without the aid of a disguise, Lila Covingtoncouldn't do the same thing? The list goes on, chapter after chapter both Lila and Tristan behave in either one reckless and careless manner or the other. So that you actually begin to wonder if an intellectual prowess and basic common sense are mutually exclusive of each other?<br />On the other hand, the authour really does a rather brilliant job of portraying the contrary desires of our confused heroine. She wants to experience life without the usual conservative restraints, but she also wants to have a lasting and meaningful relationship with Tristan. And she is frustrated that these two desires seem mutually exclusive. And in spite of my rising irritation with both Lila and Tristan, Jennifer Malin did a fairly good job of engaging my curiosity to see how this novel would end. So, all in all I would say if you're able to put up with the sometimes foolish behavior of both the hero and the heroine, than this novel should entertain.	2002-06-26
1498129:US	52830980	R3IDVUXA30EYSU	0312207670	943670599	Agatha Raisin and the Day the Floods Came (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 12)	Books	4	15	18	N	N	made for compulsive reading	Like \\"Agatha Raisin and the Love from Hell,\\" the manner in which this latest Agatha Raisin installment unfolds pretty much mirrors Agatha's frame of mind and feelings. The ending of her short-lived but ill fated marriage to her great love, James Lacey, has left Agatha feeling empty, lonely and utterly diminished in the self confidence department. As such, the novel moves between Agatha's feelings of inadequacy and her determination to get a handle on things and so move forward and onward. This could be slightly off putting if you're not an Agatha Raisin fan, and if you're not prepared to fall in with whatever master plan M. C. Beaton has mapped out for Agatha. I enjoyed the book very much. It was well written, cleverly executed and completely engrossing.<br />Saddened and weary -- first James ends their marriage in order to join a monastery, then Sir Charles Fraith (someone she thought she could count as a friend) gets married to a French society beauty and never bothers inviting her to his wedding -- Agatha decides that what she needs in a holiday far away from everyone she knows. A week at a small isolated South Pacific island seems just the ticket. And to her surprise Agatha finds herself enjoying her vacation. The other vacationers are incredibly friendly and take great pains to include Agatha in their activities. Only the honeymooning couple remains aloof. And although something about the newly wed husband strikes Agatha being slightly 'off,' she manages to keep her opinions to herself, and refrains from interfering. <br />Back again in England, Agatha comes across a young local couple (Zak Jensen & Kylie Stokes) that reminds her of the vacationing honeymooners. Something about Zak Jensen seems slightly 'off' as well. A couple of weeks later, Agatha watches in horror, as the body of Kylie Stokes, dressed in her wedding dress and clutching a bridal bouquet, floats down the river during a storm. And while the police are strangely reticent about classifying Kylie's death (her body was pumped with heroin and frozen before it ended up in the river); Agatha is sure that Kylie was murdered and that Zak had something to do with Kylie's death. And she is determined to prove it. Disguising herself as a researcher for a TV station, Agatha begins making the rounds, interviewing Kylie's friends and coworkers, hoping to discover something that would lead her to Kylie's killer.<br />I like this series immensely -- it is poignant, humourous and completely appealing. And this particular installment, \\"Agatha Raisin and the Day the Floods Came,\\" proved to be as compulsive a read as the other books in the series. Part romance novel (will Agatha ever over her love for James?), part mystery novel, I've been an enthusiastic fan of this series from the very beginning. And while the tone has changed a little -- the first few mystery novels were a little more quirky and humourous than the later ones which have been more poignant in tone -- this novel still made for enjoyable reading. I thought that the novel unwound in a smooth manner even if the denouncement was a bit rushed. There were quite a few red herring suspects to keep readers guessing, even if the plot was not a terribly complex or complicated one. All in all, great reading.	2002-06-25
1498610:US	52830980	R2VEI0M3DHDN7P	0843950226	329411937	A Rogue's Promise	Books	3	8	9	N	N	a good read even though prose style was a bit modern	\\"A Rogue's Promise\\" has two very strong points in its favour: 1) it possesses a really appealing heroine, and 2) the romance subplot (which actually is the primary storyline) is a really strong and endearing one. However, it also suffered from one huge flaw that might make some avid Regency romance buffs wince -- Peggy Waide's prose style (unfortunately) does need some polishing -- it was a bit too modern and Americanized, and after a while this really jarred. However, if you're not too much of a stickler, I can assure you with some certainty that this novel will chain and entertain.<br />Lady Joanna Fenton is in a bind. Her feckless brother, Randolph is missing along with a priceless Chinese statue. Because of Fentons precarious financial situation (Randolph seems to have a gambling habit, and their mother is busy spending money they don't have on a Season for younger sister, Penelope), Joanna has decided to auction off the statue. With the date of the auction drawing closer, and with Randolph and the statue missing, Joanna doesn't know which way to turn or what to do. (On top of it all Joanna has begun receiving threatening messages on Randolph's behalf.) So that when a friend recommends that she hire adventurer MacDonald Archer to help her locate the missing statue, Joanna eagerly seeks the man out. What she didn't count on was that Archer would revive in her all her old dreams of love, desire, marriage and children. And unbelievably, Archer seems to find her (plain, ordinary Joanna) fascinating and desirable too. Should she believe this adventurer's sweet words? But with time running out and the Fentons' fortunes on the line, Joanna has no time for daydreams and dalliance. Or does she?<br />The mystery subplot was pretty much the usual fare -- so don't expect too much from it. What really made this novel memorable was that the romance subplot dominated. Far too often novels such as \\"A Rogue's Promise\\" focuses more on the mystery/spy subplot. The romance subplotthan degenerates to some really graphic sex scenes in which the romantic element is either totally absent or lacking. Fortunately, this was not the case with this novel. Peggy Waide made the effort to paint a romance plot that was both sensual and romantic and her effort is paid off in spades! Another thing that I really liked about this novel was Waide's portrayal of the book's heroine, Lady Joanna Fenton. Joanna is the kind of heroine that most will find easy to empathise with and approve of. In spite of the fact that she's been reduced to being her family's unpaid housekeeper and accountant, that her family quite frequently takes her for granted, and that her dreams of falling in love and marrying have been shattered, Joanna is not someone who sits about the place feeling maudlin and sorry for herself. She's not someone who acts and behaves like a martyr either. (There is a wonderful scene a few chapters from the end between Joanna and her brother. I won't reveal the details of this scene so as not to spoil it but I mentally cheered). Indeed, she's a wonderful mix of sense and vulnerability. And I couldn't help but root for her to have it all!<br />I rather liked \\"A Rogues' Promise\\" in spite of its prose style. It niggled, but I managed to overlook it (more or less). And if you can do the same, well then I cannot recommend this novel heartily enough.	2002-06-25
1505267:US	52830980	R3O6GV45L9X64I	0821773577	123155414	Cheek To Cheek (Golden Door)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	enjoyable read	\\"Cheek to Cheek\\" is a rather captivating story about a young English woman's bid for independence and romance in New York City of the 1890s. The characters are all mostly charming and endearing and the romantic relationship that develops between Lady Olivia Marlowe and her employer, businessman Adam Porterfield, is an engaging one as well. However, \\"Cheek to Cheek\\" is primarily a feel good romantic novel. So, if you're looking for a historical romance that also takes a hard and gritty look at the early experiences of immigrants, look else where. Nearly everyone is unremittingly cheerful in this novel. The exploitation of the immigrants, the racism and sexism that many faced is only very casually mentioned, as everyone exhalts in the notion that things are definitely better in the 'new country' as opposed to harshness of Europe. <br />Lady Olivia Marlowe's stepfather has arranged a marriage for her with his old friend, Sir Dudley Cochran. And while Olivia isn't exactly over the moon with this engagement, she's quite resigned to her fate as well. That is until her stepbrother, Jeremy, waves the intoxicating idea that there may be a way out for Olivia. Jeremy is eager to shake the dust of England from his shoes so that he can be his own man and build something of his own. To that end, he has decided to go into business with an American business man, Adam Porterfield. However, Jeremy needs money to invest in this business, and he wants Olivia to sell her valueable jewelry collection, and stake him the money he needs to go into business with Adam. The second part of Jeremy's plan involves Olivia pretending to be in service, so that he can hire her on Adam's behalf to be a companion to Adam's mother. (This is so that Olivia can slip out of England surreptitiously, without her stepfather knowing anything of their plans.) Ever since Adam's father's death, his mother has slipped into a kind of melancholy and has quite lost her zest for life. Adam hopes that an English companion will encourage his mother to take an interest in life again. <br />Adam is attracted to Olivia almost as soon as he lays eyes on her. However, while Olivia finds that she is also attracted to Adam, she makes it very clear that theirs is to be strictly professional relationship of employer and employee. In the mean time, Olivia is discovering that it is quite an adjustment going from one who is used to being served to being the one that does the serving. But she gallantly makes it stab at it, earning the respect of Adam and the other servants in the Porterfield household. Unfortunately, Adam's mother proves to be a not so easy nut to crack. And it will take all of Olivia's ingenuity and patience to get Mrs. Porterfield to accept her. Can Olivia pull this off? And what of the dangerous attraction that is building up between Olivia and Adam? Should she give in to her desires or maintain her air of reserve and propriety? Also, what will happen when the Porterfields realise that the young woman their have hired to be a companion has a title?<br />As a novel that details how Olivia comes to realise that she is actually a lot more capable than she had hitherto thought herself to be, and how much she enjoys this new luxury of being her own woman, this book is a standout read. The romance that develops between Olivia and Adam is a rather standard one, even though well done. The ending, however, was really rushed. However, this novel is primarily one about Olivia and how she becomes something quite a bit more than the bored society lady she used to be in England. All in all, a satisfying read.	2002-06-18
1506858:US	52830980	R2Q774EV35AHMS	0425185249	606095522	Death A L'Orange (A Culinary Mystery with Recipes)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	vastly entertaining	I liked \\"Death a l' Orange\\" the best of all the books (so far) in the Culinary Mystery series. The best way I can think to describe this novel is to say that is both whimsical and surreal at the same time. The descriptions of the foods and sights of France were fantastic and made me wish I was about to embark on my own holiday of France. I also loved Nancy Fairbanks's vivid portrayals of the different bickering academics, and their wives, in the tour group -- it brought back memories of being in grad school all over again! <br />Because her husband has to undergo bypass surgery, Mrs. Atwater, a friend of the Blues, offers them their tour tickets to Normandy and the Loire Valley at a cheaper than usual price. Of course the Blues enthusiastically accept. A chance to partake in the sights and foods of Normandy is not something any amateur historian and budding food critic would willingly pass up! Another bonus is that the tour group will comprise of academics (and their better halves) from the university that Jason had been previously lecturing at. So that there would quite a few people that they actually know. The only caveat to all this is that Carolyn and Jason would also have to keep an eye on the Atwater teenage daughter, Edie. However Carolyn is sure that everything will be a breeze -- that is until she realises that 1) the tour group seems to be made up of bickering lecturers (and their equally quarrelsome spouses), three of whom are involved in a race for the deanship of the College of Arts and Sciences; 2) she notices that Edie Atwater is a budding mantrap who has attached herself firmly to the Blues' son; and 3) that a series of rather troublesome accidents seem to be dogging the group, and Professor Childeric, a medieval historian, in particular. <br />When the first accident befalls Childeric (he falls onto the luggage carousel at the airport), Carolyn thinks little of the accident despite Childeric's claims of having been maliciously pushed. But Childericis soon the victim of another 'accident' and Carolyn begins to seriously wonder if someone is actually out to get the professor, as he insists. As the days pass, the 'accidents' take on a more sinister aspect, and Jason soon begins to worry about Carolyn's safety as Childeric seems to have attached himself firmly to her elbow...<br />As with the second book in this series, \\"Truffled Feathers,\\" this latest Carolyn Blue mystery novel is also divided into two narratives -- Carolyn's at times humourous one that includes some rather entertaining sidebars of historical and gastronomical fact, is nicely juxtaposed with her husband's, Jason, more factual and matter-of-fact account of what's going on. In spite of the dual narrative plot device, the novel unfolded smoothly and at a brisk pace. Before I even knew it, I had devoured the novel and was lefty with that 'I wish there was more' feeling. \\"Death a l' Orange\\" is truly enjoyable read. Carolyn and Jason's tongue-in-cheek observations of the foibles of those around them (the French natives and the American tour group members) are bound to entertain. But in spite of all this light whimsy, Nancy Fairbanks also successfully imbues the novel with an air of sinister surrealism as the number of accidents mount and they begin to take on a darker hue. Thus lending a rather suspenseful tone to the book as you wonder what will happen next! Be warned however, charming and enjoyable though \\"Death a l' Orange\\" was, there is actually very little of the hunt-for-the-dangerous-prank-player aspect in this novel. Carolyn does try to tabulate what's going on and to figure out who the likely suspects are; but unfortunately is easily side tracked by the sights and foods and the private lives of the group members. Still, this is an entertaining and engaging novel that should not be missed.	2002-06-17
1510843:US	52830980	R2NVEP1NNNOC8C	031226237X	81690218	The Tavern in the Morning (Hawkenlye Mystery Trilogy)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	an absolutely brilliant read	This medieval mystery series set during the reign of an absent Richard I (the English king that was too busy glory seeking in the Middle East to really care about what was going on in the lands under his rule), is steadily becoming a firm favourite. And is a wonderful example of how a lively writing style, together with an ability to breath life into scenes and characters, is enough to keep any avid mystery addict reverted to his/her seat. You don't always need a cunning plot that is full of twists and turns, and that is full of red herring suspects to keep readers happy. An ability to tell a story, and tell it well, is all that is needed. As with previous mysteries in this Hawkenlye series, the mystery here is a rather straight forward one. And as with the other books in this series I was hooked -- I simply couldn't put the book down until I had finished it.<br />Once, Goody Anne was known for the bodily comforts that she provided. Now however Anne is known as the owner of a Tonridge tavern that provides tasty ale and good food. One harsh February market day however, Anne's good reputation takes a nose dive when one of her guests dies of food poisoning. At the instigation of his quiet cook, Josse d' Acquin (a frequent customer and admirer of Anne's cooking) sets off to investigate. The first thing that strikes him is that, if indeed the unfortunate guest had died of food poisoning, the dead man seems to have been the only one to have suffered the effects of the bad food. And after digging deeper, and uncovering some bits of evidence, Josse realises that the food the man had eaten been deliberately poisoned. Why would anyone want to poison a poor farmer? Determined to get to the bottom of things, Josse (with the help of Abbess Helewise of Hawkenlye Abbey) begins his investigation into this intriguing murder. And it isn't very long before he stumbles onto another perplexing mystery, and another brutal murder...<br />\\"The Tavern in the Morning\\" proved to be an enthralling read even if it didn't possess one of those complex storylines that keeps you guessing to the very end. This entire series deserves awards of excellence. And if I were sitting on one of those many mystery novel award boards, I'd be nominating every single one of the Hawkenlye novels for excellence. Alys Clare is an absolute wizard at setting up a scene and in bringing characters to life. Truly a brilliant read.	2002-06-13
1511473:US	52830980	R2RIRQ87J8KU01	0821771949	16260802	A Country Courtship (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	sympathetic hero &amp; heroine make this a worthwhile read	He thinks that the woman he's enchanted with is a servant; while she thinks that the rugged farmer she's fallen for is a farm manager. Of course neither of them is who they claim to be, and they both have far more in common with each other than they would have thought possible. But will they be able to look past all the lies and evasions in order to realise this once the truth is out?<br />Miss Jane Dresden is being pressured by her mother and aunt to accept a proposal of marriage from Lord Geraint Haven, the Viscount Haven. Now Jane is not your typical Regency miss: her dearest dream is to live quietly in the country, far from the maddening fashionable fribbles that make up 'good' society. Unfortunately, both her mother and her aunt are bent on marrying her off credibly. And they want Jane to make a journey into the wilds of Yorkshire, in order to meet this viscount. Jane is aghast at the thought of having to marry a man whom rumour has it, is a cold and bumbling clod, and who appears too high in the instep to find a wife for himself. Desperate but determined, Jane manages to wring a promise from her mother that if after a few weeks of getting to know the viscount, if Jane is still of a mind to refuse the gentleman, she will be allowed to come home unengaged. However, she never makes it to the viscount's estate...<br />In the meantime, Gerry, Viscount Haven, is having his fair share of the blues. He is a rather serious minded and gruff gentleman, who is happiest when he is walking about and managing his estate and farms. He would like to marry for love, but despairs of ever finding a young lady who would share his love for the country, and who is not a superficial phony either. The constant nagging of his mother and grandmother has made him agree to meet Jane Dresden, but he has no real hopes of anything materialising there. And now the silly twit has disappeared! However, while Gerry is trying to discover what could have happened to Jane, he meets Jennie, a servant from London, who is visiting relatives in the area. Gerry is struck dumb. Here, is the very embodiment of all he ever hoped his future wife would be. Desiring to spend more time with Jennie, Gerry passes himself off as his own farm manager, and soon finds himself falling hopelessly in love with Jennie. But what a coil: the woman of his dreams is a servant! Add to that the headache that he has still not found Jane Dresden! <br />Things are no better at Jane's end either. Because of a series of misadventures, Jane finds herself at the viscount's backdoor, where she manages to pass herself off as the visiting Jennie (we know this from the synopsis at the back of the book). Jane soon finds herself falling in love with Gerry. But he is just a humble farm manager (or so she thinks) and whether she likes it or not, she will have to revert back to being Miss Jane Dresden again soon, and face the music. What then will happen then to her romance with Gerry? <br />With all these lies and evasions, I fully expected to be clicking my tongue in exasperation through out the novel. And so was rather agreeably surprised to find myself being pulled into this saga of masquerades and prevarication instead. Donna Simpson has written a tale in with two exceptionally sympathetic characters, so that it was easy to empathise and understand why Jane and Gerry behave as they do (the manner in which Jane allows the viscount to assume almost ogreish proportions in her imagination, was really nicely done). I esp liked the brilliant manner in which the authour slowly makes Jane realise how her dream of a quiet, simple country life was a pipe dream at best. There were a couple of things though that made this novel not such smooth reading. 1) the reasons why Jane behaves the way she does (running away, pretending to be a servant) is staggered out over a few chapters. I think that it would have made much smoother reading if the authour had revealed all in one go. 2) the fate of some characters areleft up in the air. In particular the triangle involving Gerry's two sisters and his neighbour. And 3) Jane's initial refusal to listen to Gerry once she realises who he is. It felt almost petty, as if she was punishing him because HE discovered who she was before she learned everything herself. I'll admit to being a tad disappointed with Jane over this issue.<br />All in all however, &quot;A Country Courtship&quot; was a rather fun read. Both Gerry and Jane are not your usual type of Regency hero &amp; heroine -- loving the country and disliking tonnish society as much as they did. And that made for a really nice change of pace. A really good read.	2002-06-12
1512120:US	52830980	R2G6PXH5PT5QVI	0786239344	167392250	An Unmourned Death (Five Star First Edition Mystery Series)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	a pleasant read even if the mystery bit was a lightweight	While I rather enjoyed reading \\"An Unmourned Death,\\" I must own that mystery-wise, it was not that much of a spectacular read. Indeed, the manner in which Jasmine Malloy, our detecting heroine, finally solved the mystery and arrived at the truth, had me flabbergasted. Also, some of the plot resolutions felt incredibly rushed as well -- in particular the subplot resolution involving Robert Renstone and Julia Beaumont. On the other hand, if you're looking for a historical novel that deals with the challenges that women face daily (whether it is professionally or socially) and how much women are dependent on the good will of the men in their lives (whether it be fathers, brothers, husbands or employers) than \\"An Unmourned Death\\" should definitely satisfy.<br />The plot is pretty much what has already been outlined in the book synopsis: Jasmine Malloy, one of the Selkirk Detective Agency's more resourceful operatives, is sent to Renstone Hall to look into the disappearance of Lord and Lady Renstone's 16 year old daughter, Phoebe. The inhabitants of the Hall prove to be a rather peculiar bunch: there is Lord Renstone, who turns out to be a rather uncouth and loathsome individual and who doesn't seem to be too concerned about his only daughter's disappearance; his subdued and colourless wife who seems to have acted out of character in hiring a detective agency to look for her daughter; Phoebe's two brothers -- rakishly handsome Alistair and bookish Robert; and Alistair's rich fiance, Julia, whom younger brother Robert seems to be hopelessly in love with. Jasmine does her best, but is soon frustrated. Phoebe seems to have had few real friends (save a maid who left because she was pregnant) and no one in her family can shed any light as to her frame of mind or why she would have run away. And then Lord Renstone is murdered. Could Lord Renstone's death have anything to do with Phoebe's disappearance? Or are the two incidents mutually independent of each other? Jasmine is determined to discover the truth.<br />\\"An Unmourned Death\\" was an agreeable enough read so long as you're not expecting a murder mystery along the lines of an Anne Perry novel. Personally, I would preferred a slightly more complex murder mystery with more pages that dealt with the investigation into Phoebe's disappearance and Renstone's murder, and a little less of Jasmine's potential romance (which took up far more room than it should have, I thought). However I couldn't help but be charmed by Jasmine Malloy who turned out to be intelligent and engaging. So, I definitely would read another Jasmine Malloy mystery novel. As far as this particular novel goes, it was a rather agreeable read in that it accurately portrayed certain social issues. As a mystery novel however, it was a bit of a lightweight.	2002-06-12
1516795:US	52830980	R35TGNL8B0MTEQ	0451206304	300902518	Miss Tibbles Interferes (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	strictly for Miss Tibbles' fans	\\"Miss Tibbles Interferes\\" is definitely a novel for fans -- fans of April Kihlstrom's Miss Tibbles series that is. Because while the novel is billed as a Regency romance with a murder-mystery attached to it, the romance and the mystery subplots are more or less a backdrop to a novel that is actually all about Miss Tibbles's (or rather Mrs. Merriweather) capable and managing ways. I'm a Miss Tibbles fan, so that \\"Miss Tibbles Interferes\\" was a rather agreeable read for me. However, if you're looking for the traditional Regency romance novel, you might want to try some other novel, as this particular one may indeed disappoint.<br />When Colonel Merriweather receives a letter from an old school friend (Mr. Hawthorne) asking him to come to London because he needs his help and advice, the Colonel and his wife (the former Miss Tibbles) set off for London with all speed. Hawthorne happens to be a curator of sorts of the British Museum, and he is currently cataloguing the artifacts that Wellington brought back from the Peninsula. However upon making contact with Hawthorne, the Colonel discovers to his bewilderment that for some reason or the other, Hawthorne is hesitant to confide in him completely, claiming that he has to do some serious thinking before he can decide what he can divulge and what he should keep to himself. He promises to be more forthcoming and asks for a couple of days to think things over. Unfortunately Hawthorne is murdered soon after this. And now the Colonel decides that that it is up to him to uncover what is going on at the museum and to discover who murdered his friend. Could it have been the work of some art theft ring? Or someone closer to home? Like Captain William Stanfield, who has been helping Hawthorne catalogue Wellington's contributions, but who is extremely cagey as to why exactly he was assigned to help Hawthorne, and who also seems to be very protective of Hawthorne's scholarly daughter, Ariel...<br />I've only outlined the mystery subplot; however, as I've already noted, \\"Miss Tibbles Interferes\\" is not that much of a mystery novel as the authour does not go very much into the hunt for the wrongdoers aspect of this novel. And if you're looking for a really romantic subplot, you might be disappointed there as well. The romance between Ariel and Captain Stanfield was a rather superficial one, I thought. Both seem to be drawn to each other mostly because of their looks; they seldom seem to talk about common interests or issues, so that you might wonder (a little) about the depth of their feelings for each other. Ariel spends a lot of time thinking about the handsome captain, and wondering if he's thinking about her; while Stanfield spends a lot of time thinking of Ariel as a complication to his assignment, even as he admires her for her compassion and courage! Not very romantic that. Mostly, however, this novel is about how capable and intelligent the women (Miss Tibbles/Mrs. Merriweather and Ariel) actually are. Both the Colonel and the Captain spend a lot of time remonstrating and trying to keep the 'little women' out of harm's way but to little effect, as the women seem really bent on solving the mysteries at hand. This novel is also about how Ariel metamorphoses from a shy and diffident young woman who acted mainly as her father's dogsbody, to a young woman fully capable to handling her own affairs and future. Form that standpoint, \\"Miss Tibbles Interferes\\" was a rather worthwhile read. <br />On the whole, while I found this novel to be an enjoyable one, I must warn that unless you are a Miss Tibbles fan, this book may be a bit of a disappointment.	2002-06-07
1522935:US	52830980	RNITH9CLSAFMU	0758201583	964110623	This Pen For Hire: A Jaine Austen Mystery	Books	5	5	6	N	N	wonderful first book in projected series	This is definitely the book for summer vac reading! Laura Levine's lightly ironic, tongue-in-cheek and witty prose style had me chuckling put loud and completely riveted to the pages. I am definitely keeping this book!<br />When insurance adjuster, Howard Murdoch, turns up at Jaine Austen's doorstep, hoping to hire her to write a love letter to his aerobics instructor for him, Jaine little expects to find her self entangled in a murder investigation as a result of her letter writing skills! Thirty-something, ex-advertising writer and once married (currently happily divorced) Jaine Austen makes a living writing personal ads and resumes freelance. Her home based business enterprise is actually called THIS PEN FOR HIRE.  With some misgivings (but she does have bills to pay after all) Jaine writes Howard's letter for him. She doesn't expect her letter to garner any success, so she's quite surprised when Howard excitedly leaves her a message that the aerobics instructor has agreed to go out with him. Unfortunately everything goes downhill form then on: Howard turns up for his date and finds the woman dead. The police arrest Howard for the crime. But Jaine doesn't believe that Howard killed her. And feeling guilty for the part she played in this mess, Jaine starts digging around, hoping to find evidence of Howard's innocence, and clues as to the real murderer's identity. Unexpectedly, Jaine discovers that she is actually having the time of her life playing detective -- that is until someone begins to find her sleuthing not at all to his/her liking and starts taking steps to discourage her from carrying on with her quest to free Howard...<br />I liked \\"This Pen for Hire\\" for so many reasons, not least of which was that Jaine's (the detecting heroine of this book) cat, Prozac, bore a starling resemblance to both my cats in its ability to inhale food all the time. But I suppose what I liked best about this novel, aside from it's totally engaging and amusing prose style, wasLaura Levine's realistic take at how an amateur sleuth might go about trying to uncover the truth. It's not easy being a detective, and the authour shows this. The mystery novel unfolded at a brisk, easy and smooth pace, making this a truly fun and enjoyable read. I enjoyed her descriptions of L.A. and the breezy manner with which she gently poked fun at the lifestyles that some people in L.A. lead. As for the series heroine, Jaine Austen, I found her to be a completely appealing and charming character. Take my word for it: \\"This Pen for Hire\\" is the first book in a series that promises to be amusing and interesting. Either buy or borrow this book from you local library at once. You won't regret it.<br />(One caveat though: for some reason the cover jacket portrays Jaine as a svelte young woman. With this picture in mind, I was rather thrown when I came across a description of Jaine somewhere in chapter 7. She's not large, but she's not a dress size 2 either. And I wondered why the dustjacket portrayed her as such? Perhaps it was artistic license or some kind of art style that makes everyone look like stick figures. But I would have preferred it if the Jaine described in the book had been portrayed on the dustjacket instead.)	2002-06-02
1524263:US	52830980	R2S02GG6GPN0B9	0821771787	817218035	A Rogue's Deception (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	the disdainful earl learns his lesson	For the past 10 years, the Earl of Bradenstoke has been peppered with letters from Miss Alice Cherville, taking him to task for not having taken on his father's promise to be a guardian to the Cherville siblings. However, because the late earl never communicated to his son his agreement to accept this obligation, and because the late earl had left things so badly for his son, the current earl felt little compunction about declining to accept the responsibilities of guardianship for six children he had never met and knew nothing about. This of course did not sit well with Alice, and she has carried a grudge against the earl close to her heart ever since.<br />Presently, the Chervilles are in London: Alice (an heiress in her own right) has decided that she and her sisters should enjoy a London season. And hopefully the sisters will be able to find prospective husbands that they will love and respect before the Season is done. The earl however has no idea that the Chervilles are in London. So that when he spies a stunning beauty at a masquerade at Vauxhall Gardens, he is surprised to be told that this beguiling young woman is the very same termagant who has been tormenting him with missives! The earl had long decided that Alice and her siblings were encroaching mushrooms eager to take advantage of all the social cachet that the earl could offer them. And so, in the spirit of devilry, the earl decides to masquerade as his half-brother, Mr. Pinfrith, in order to play a trick on Alice. He spins her a tale of woe, and steals a couple of kisses. The laugh however, the earl discovers to his chagrin, is on him. For unexpectedly, he finds that he has lost his heart to the enchanting Alice. Alice, however makes it only all to clear that she prefers the Mr. Pinfrith (or the man whom she thinks is Pinfrith) to the disdainful earl. Can the earl persuade Alice to change her mind about him, and so give him a chance to win her heart?<br />\\"A Rogue's Deception\\" was a rather light hearted Regency that takes place in London, and that uses the hustle and bustle of the London season as it's backdrop. While the main storyline follows the earl's courtship of Alice, there are also several other minor subplots involving the other Cherville women as they themselves seek out their perfect mate. Valerie King has written a very tight, smoothly paced and incredibly warm hearted romance novel. The pages fairly exudes all the affection and love that the Cherville siblings have for each other. King also does a very neat job of depicting the earl's tumultuous feelings for Alice -- feeling powerfully drawn to Alice, and yet not really wanting to acknowledge the depth of his feelings for her. However I couldn't get over his refusal to act as guardian to the Cherville children all those years ago. And that is partly because King doesn't go into that issue very much. For example, who ended up being the their legal guardian of the Chervilles? Surely not their woolly minded aunt? Given that Alice, the eldest Cherville child, was only 15 at the time of their parents' death, the earl's refusal to act for them could have been a very serious issue indeed. How did the Chervilles manage to go on all those years as one happy family in spite of their lack of a legal guardian? These questions kind of niggled at me, even as I surrendered myself of enjoying this warm and (at times) rather funny novel.<br />All in all \\"A Rogue's Deception\\" was a rather enjoyable and warm hearted read. There were several rather funny bits in the novel, lots of romance and a sword fighting scene that was definitely out of the ordinary. Great fun.arted Regency that takes place in London, and that uses the hustle and bustle of the London season as it's backdrop. While the main storyline follows the earl's courtship of Alice, there are also several other minor subplots involving the other Cherville women as they themselves seek out their perfect mate. Valerie King has written a very tight, smoothly paced and incredibly warm hearted romance novel. The pages fairly exudes all the affection and love that the Cherville siblings have for each other. King also does a very neat job of depicting the earl's tumultuous feelings for Alice -- feeling powerfully drawn to Alice, and yet not really wanting to acknowledge the depth of his feelings for her. However I couldn't get over his refusal to act as guardian to the Cherville children all those years ago. And that is partly because King doesn't go into that issue very much. For example, who ended up being the their legal guardian of the Chervilles? Surely not their woolly minded aunt? Given that Alice, the eldest Cherville child, was only 15 at the time of their parents' death, the earl's refusal to act for them could have been a very serious issue indeed. How did the Chervilles manage to go on all those years as one happy family in spite of their lack of a legal guardian? These questions kind of niggled at me, even as I surrendered myself of enjoying this warm and (at times) rather funny novel.<br />All in all \\"A Rogue's Deception\\" was a rather enjoyable and warm hearted read. There were several rather funny bits in the novel, lots of romance and a sword fighting scene that was definitely out of the ordinary. Great fun.	2002-06-01
1527854:US	52830980	R1G8MQCTV9ADDK	0821771752	621170939	His Unexpected Bride (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	hero's remoteness a bit off-putting, but still a good read	\\"His Unexpected Bride\\" by Jo Ann Ferguson is a rather well written novel that makes full use of the marriage of inconvenience plot. Lord Cameron Hawksmoor drunkenly stumbles into Miss Tess Masterson's bedroom, mistaking it for his own. But before he can rectify his error, Tess's father turns up. Apparently Cameron has married Tess (by proxy) with her father's blessing. Both Tess and Cameron are appalled: Tess, because her father has married her off so summarily without giving any thought as to her wishes and feelings; and Cameron because he's so drunk, he cannot remember having even obtained a special license in order to marry Tess. However married the two irrevocably are unless there is some legal way out of this bumblebroth. Unhappy, both Cameron and Tess leave for London in order to get some legal advice about their predicament. The trouble however is that while Tess feels quite resentful towards Cameron for the part he played in this mess, and while Cameron cannot help but feel that there is something terribly wrong about the manner in which he came to be married, both Tess and Cameron are powerfully attracted towards each other. The question then is if both Tess and Cameron should give up their hopes of putting and end to their marriage and give into their feelings for each other or not?<br />The novel unfolds a little slowly for the first half of the book. Jo Ann Ferguson spent a lot of time circling around the frustrations that both Cameron and Tess feel about the state they find themselves in -- being married and yet not wanting to remain so because of the manner in which their marriage was contracted; stir in the powerful attraction that they feel for each other and the fact that neither party really trusts the other completely, and you have a royal mess in the making! On Tess's side of grievances lies also the unpalatable truth that she doesn't know what to make of Cameron's tendency to blow hot and cold towards her, of his ability to suppress all his emotions, to say one thing but mean the other, and his tendency to blame her and throw tantrums whenever things go wrong. (I mentally cheered when she finally tells him to grow up and face things like an adult.) However, halfway through the novel, there is a major plot development (and I'm not saying what so as not to spoil things for everyone). From this point on, the novel unwinds at a faster and at a more interesting pace, as Cameron finally begins to take a hard look at who is trying to harm and manipulate his family. <br />All in all, I'd say that \\"His Unexpected Bride\\" is a pretty good read. I did think that Cameron's and Tess's obsession with putting a quiet end to their marriage was unrealistic. This was early 19th century England afterall: no such thing (save an annulment) existed. Also, I wished that Jo Ann Ferguson had developed Cameron's character more -- what had turned him into such a control freak? And why he felt the need to suppress all his emotions? As it is we're left with a frequently grumpy and short tempered grouse, albeit an intelligent one. I also thought that introducing Cameron's good hearted ex-mistress into the mix was unnecessary, as she served no real purpose except to advise Tess to stick out her unconventional marriage and to trust in Cameron. She only added to the mess of there being (at times) too many characters for such a plot. A good read however in spite of my caveats.	2002-05-29
1530145:US	52830980	R1N4YWLZCZYX2W	0821772848	927082060	Marrying Miss Bumblebroth	Books	5	12	13	N	N	a real treat -- beyond 5 stars!!	I know that I have given a lot of 5 star rating to quite a few Regencies of late, and that's because they have all been entertaining and well written novels with characters that engaged my interest. However, \\"Marrying Miss Bumblebroth\\" by Mary Kingsley is definitely the best Regency romance novel I've read so far all year, and it is definitely going on my reading-table bookshelf by my bed. What a fantastic book. This is, in my humble opinion, a romance novel for grown ups -- no juvenile heroines, no explicit sexual situations (nothing against them but there is a time and place for all of them, and a light Regency novel is, I feel NOT the place for them), a believable and probable storyline, and a hero I DIDN'T want to conk on the head! Rather, it's a book about two people who marry for convenience and who discover love, acceptance and happiness within their marriage.<br />After a particularly disastrous London season in which she was dubbed 'Miss Bumblebroth' because of her clumsiness, Miss Chloe Russell was certain that she was destined to remain a spinster. However, circumstance (her sister-in-law's expensive spendthrift ways) has caused her brother to broker a marriage for Chloe. (Chloe is rich, and the marriage settlements would send some of the money her brother's way.) Chloe, of course, is aghast. The gentleman her brother has in mind is the much sought after Corinthian (but quite penniless) Lord Michael Lyndon, heir to the earldom of Grantham. The Corinthian and Miss Bumblebroth -- Chloe is sure that they will be the laughingstocks of society if anyone ever learns that such a match is being promoted. However, when Chloe and Lord Michael finally meet, they discover that this marriage proposal may actually have some merit. Chloe is relieved to find that Michael is intelligent and kindly, and that his chief aim is to repair his much neglected his country estate. While Michael is surprised to discover that there is something completely endearing about Chloe thatmakes him want to take on all her burdens and fears. And so the two decide to make a match of it. But just as things are beginning to come together for Chloe and Michael, Chloe's malicious cousin starts a campaign to drive the pair apart. Will he succeed? Or will Chloe and Michael successfully meet this threat to their well-being?<br />\\"Marrying Miss Bumblebroth\\" has no mystery or spy subplot, and no distracting secondary romance subplot involving other characters either. It is just a straight romance about how two people with their own private fears and pain, learn to trust in the love and acceptance that the other is willing to offer, and in the process discover something truly precious and rewarding: love. Both Chloe and Michael are likable and grown up characters that never (thank God) revert to sulks and tantrums when things don't go exactly as they would like it to. I found this aspect (adult characters that actually behaved liked adults) wonderfully refreshing. Some romance readers may not appreciate novels with such characters, deeming them as dull and bland, lacking sizzle. However, for someone like me, novels like \\"Marrying Miss Bumblebroth\\" are a real treat, and worth treasuring. This novel was a truly fantastic read. And it made my weekend all the brighter for having indulged in such a wonderful read.	2002-05-27
1534174:US	52830980	R3LB9REA3XXNOW	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	5	552	604	N	N	a fascinating and enthralling read	I had more or less given up reading historical novels when I ran out of books by Jean Plaidy to read. For me, she was one of the truly rare authours (saving Sharon Kay Penman of course) who got the feel, tone and character of her subject matter right. So that I had more or less stopped looking out for new books in this genre to read. And then I saw \\"The Other Boleyn Girl\\" at my local bookstore, and after sampling the first chapter, I realized that I had to buy this book. And I'm awfully glad that I did. What a simply wonderful read!! Phillipa Gregory did a really splendid job of evoking the splendor and turbulence of Henry VIII's court. I also thought that her choice of narrator, Mary Boleyn (the elder of the Boleyn sisters) was an inspired as well. Most historians (and perhaps I've only read the those that espoused this majority view) tend to dismiss Mary as an empty headed good time girl because she was used and cast aside with very little ceremony; and because she never rose as high as her sister, Anne. But you have to wonder: Mary was also the only Boleyn sibling to survive the vicissitudes of Henry VIII's reign, and the fall of the Howard-Boleyn fortunes; she also managed to marry for love (and a happy and lasting marriage it proved to be too) the second time around. So perhaps there was a lot more to the 'other Boleyn girl' than everyone credits?<br />Gregory's novel opens and closes with two executions -- it begins with the execution of the Duke of Buckingham in 1521, and ends with the execution of Anne Boleyn in 1536. With this rather grim events framing her book, the novel proper starts in 1522, with Anne arrival at the Tudor court, where her elder sister, Mary, is already lady-in-waiting to Henry's wife, Queen Katherine. From the very beginning we see that while there is a bond that ties the Boleyn sisters together, there is also a deep rooted rivalry between them. It is a tense time at court: the queen (already quite a few years older than her husband) has yet to produce a male heir to the throne, and people are beginning to question if the aging queen will ever be able to bear children again. Some of Henry's advisers are even began to gently hint that he should put his Spanish wife aside and look for a younger more fecund wife. In the midst of all this intrigue, Mary soon catches the king's roving eye. Although she is married and still quite loyal to the queen, her family (her ruthless parents as well as her uncle, the powerful and equally ruthless Duke of Howard) decrees that she put her marriage and loyalties aside and cater to the whims of her king. Bedazzled, it doesn't take Mary very long to fall in love with both her golden king and her role as the his 'unofficial' wife. A few years and two royal by-blows later however, Mary is shunted aside when the king begins to loose interest in their relationship and her ambitious family fearful that they will loose all the power that they have gained, throws the more ruthless and seductive sister, Anne at the king's head. From then on Mary, her eyes finally wide open as to how low her family will stoop in order to gain power, watches from the sidelines as her family, led by Anne, begins their high stakes play for the queen's crown. Finally realizing that she can only depend on herself for her own future, Mary is inspired to take a few risks herself in order to gain some measure of happiness and security. <br />The sheer scope of this novel is gigantic -- there were so many things that were going on both on and off stage and the number of people that were involved in all these shenanigans! So that it was a treat to find that the novel unfolded smoothly and effortlessly, and that Gregory did not drop the ball once. She kept each chapter short and succinct, and yet still managed to give the reader an enthralling and exciting account of what was going on. I also liked the manner in which she depicted all the characters in this novel. From Queen Katherine who was portrayed not only as a loyal and loving wife, but also as an intelligent woman who saw and understood what was going on around her, even as she clung to the hope that the king would recover from his obsession with Anne; to the authour's chilling portrayal of the Boleyn family (father, mother, Anne and George). With a few well chosen words and phrases, she's paints them as wildly ambitious, ruthless and pettily cruel individuals, willing to use each other in order to achieve a particular goal. But the authour's characterization of Mary Boleyn was probably the best thing in the novel. Here we see a young and intelligent woman with a heart and a sense of morality that is constantly at war with her feeling of familial obligations. How Mary struggles with this dueling feelings and the decisions she makes -- sometimes good, sometimes bad -- is what makes this novel worth reading. <br />All in all, I'd say \\"The Other Boleyn Girl\\" is a rich and rewarding read.	2002-05-23
1537223:US	52830980	R3W3WDW7O5LPPX	1573229334	378825763	Losing Gemma	Books	5	4	4	N	N	a fantastically enthralling read!	What I liked most of all about \\"Losing Gemma\\" was that it was not so much a mystery novel about the incomprehensible and tragic death of Gemma Harding (though this was a prominent motif), as it was an incisive and telling look at friendship. Esther (the narrator) and Gemma have been best friends and confidants since primary school. And, in Esther's mind anyway, their friendship, characters, the roles each play -- Esther, the beautiful and clever one, and Gemma, the awkward, naive one that needs looking after and guidance -- seems set in stone. So that when Esther and Gemma set off for their holiday trip to India, Esther little expects the experience to have such a telling impact on their lives (her's especially). We're allowed to know from the very first page some of what happens: somehow, tragically Gemma dies during their holiday, and Esther carries with her the guilt that she had somehow allowed this to happen by not taking proper care of Gemma. The entire tragedy colours Esther's life completely, and she is never really able to let go of her guilt. So much so that years later, Esther again makes the trip to India to find the answers she is looking for: why Gemma died, and if indeed she (Esther) played a crucial role in Gemma's death.<br />\\"Losing Gemma\\" is a truly rich and engrossing read. As I noted it is not so much a mystery novel, as it is a book about friendship. And Katy Gardner's light handed and accessible prose style makes this novel easy reading as well. I almost finished the book in one go, and really begrudged the hours I had to spend doing other things instead of finishing this intriguing novel. This is a book that makes you think. From the very beginning, Gardner sets us up to accept certain 'truths' about Esther and Gemma's characters. She then quietly and subtly deconstructs all our preconceptions by interspersing Esther's narrative here and there with Gemma's own thoughts and feelings. This allows us to see that while Esther is almost an omniscient narrator, she is not all knowing. And she certainly was not at all privy to Gemma's inner most thoughts and desires. This juxtaposition of what Esther perceives is occurring and what Gemma believes is going on adds texture and depth to the novel. And the backdrop to all this, India, with all it's exotic and alien othernes that Esther believes she has a handle on, but who actually hasn't, added nuances to the mystery of what happens to both Esther and Gemma, and the events that lead up to Gemma's death. (Another thing I rather liked was the manner in which Gardner ended the novel. Without giving anything away, I'll only say that I think that the manner in which things were left added a certain reality to the novel.)<br />\\"Losing Gemma\\" is a 'gem' of a novel. It is also a novel that will make you wonder about the close friendships in your own life as well -- if you have an inkling as to what you friends really think and feel about you. So, sit back and be prepared to read a truly enthralling novel.	2002-05-20
1537447:US	52830980	RSQOQX9C2OOD	0425185397	292260088	The Bloodied Cravat (Beau Brummell Mysteries)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	good light reading	Beau Brummell, London's premier arbiter of fashion, has been invited to Oatlands (the country estate of the Duke and Duchess of York) in order to celebrate the duchess's birthday. And while Brummell arrives promptly enough, his baggage, his valet, along with his present for the duchess, seems aggravatingly enough to have gone missing. It is almost too much for Brummell -- first, to have to share the duchess with other lesser toadying individuals instead of having her all to himself, and now for his valet and bags to have gone missing! And if all that was not enough, the guest list would be sure to inspire a severe case of indigestion, for the duchess seems to have invited not a few dirty dishes to her birthday celebrations. And they include the new Lord Kendrick, a rather loutish individual with an exaggerated view of his attractions, and who seems to treat his young cousin, Lady Ariana, rather brutally. Brummell, however, discovers that he has little time to spend thinking about Kendrick and his bad behaviour, for his valet soon arrives with dire news. Robinson had been held up by a highwayman who operates in the neighbourhood, and the thief has made off with some of Brummell's baggage. In particular a valise that held Brummell's scrapbook, which also contained a despairing yet ardent letter from the duchess that could bring social ruin to both Brummell and the duchess.<br />Horrified and worried about the danger that he has placed his beloved duchess in, Brummell resolves to retrieve the letter before some blackmailer can make full use of it. And he has some suspicion that the highwayman may not be a common felon afterall, but may actually be one of the guests at the house party. And then a guest is found murdered, and the weapon of choice appears to be one of the duchess's hair ornaments. Now, Brumell must work not only to retrieve the missing letter, but also discover who murdered the guest before more scandal is heaped on the duchess's head.<br />What I liked most about \\"The Bloodied Cravat\\" was not so much the murder-blackmail plot, but rather the care that Rosemary Stevens took to get certain nuances about the Regency period right. I liked that she painted the precariousness of Brummell's social position so accurately -- how a small misstep, however slight, and the loss of the good opinion of the powerful members of the aristocracy, could ruin him. Rosemary Stevens's on the mark depiction on just how much the women of the period were dependent on the whims and good will of the men in their life, was neatly done as well. Women had very few privileges, and Ms Stevens uses this unpalatable truth to colour her mystery novel to great effect. And while the novel unfolded smoothly and effortlessly, the main plot-line (the theft of the duchess's letter, and the murder) was actually rather light weight. It was the fate of a few characters that interested me that had me glued to the pages. So all in all I'd say that of you are a fan of the Regency period this novel will be real treat; and if you're looking for a light murder-mystery novel, \\"The Bloodied Cravat should do as well. But if you're looking for something more substantial, you might want to try something else.	2002-05-20
1548664:US	52830980	R1VRHQO8R0PLV7	0312271212	747433278	A Mist of Prophecies:  A Novel of Ancient Rome	Books	5	2	2	N	N	a fantastic read	This latest Gordianus the Finder murder mystery novel is far more somber in tone, slighty slower in pace, and is a little convoluted in the telling than previous ones. So if you're looking for a Gordianus installment that is in keeping with \\"Roman Blood\\" and \\"Murder on the Appian Way,\\" you might be in for a disappointment. I'm a staunch fan and am a real addict for the series, so that my lauding of this latest Gordianus novel can be seen as a personal bias. I liked this book quite a bit. The mood and the tone reflects Gordianus's state of mind completely -- his fears for what the current political upheaval could mean for Rome and her people; his anxiousness over his wife's ill health and their financial woes, and his apprehension over his estrangement with his son, Meto. Tying all these emotions together is his fascination for the mysterious young seeress, Cassandra, and his guilt over his feelings for her. The backdrop to all this emotional angst is the power struggle that is going on between Julius Caesar and Pompey, and the anxiety that everyone feel as they anxiously await the results of this conflict.<br />\\"A Mist of Prophecies\\" opens with the funeral of the mysterious, Cassandra, a young woman who had the uncanny ability to foresee the future. But who exactly Cassandra is and where she hails from is a mystery, for Cassandra seems to have suffered from a form of amnesia. And one day, while Gordianus is shopping at the market with Bathsheba (his wife) and Diana (his daughter), Cassandra bursts upon them much agitated. She collapses in Gordianus's arms and dies after claiming that she has been poisoned by a woman. Because Cassandra has no family (and because, it is hinted here, of his relationship with her) Gordianus decides to foot the bill for her funeral. He also privately resolves to investigate her death. And at her funeral, Gordianus gets his first intimation of just how high Cassandra flew, for seven of Rome's most prominent women from rather important andpowerful families attend her funeral. And they include Terentia (Cicero's wife) and her sister, Fabia (a Vestal Virgin); Antonia (Mark Anthony's wife); Fausta (the tyrant Sulla's daughter, who is also the wife of Milo, leader of the rabble); Calpurnia (Caesar's wife); and Clodia (the disgraced sister of Publius Clodius). Perhaps the mysterious 'she' that Cassandra referred to is one of these seven women? Grappling with his grief and anxiety, Gordianus begins his determined search for Cassandra's murderess, an investigation that is steeped in a danger all of its own as Gordianus begins poking and prying into the affairs of these rich and powerful women...<br />As I noted this mystery unfolds at a more sedate pace than previous Gordianus mysteries and in a more circular manner as well, as chapters dealing with the investigation are juxtaposed with Gordianus's memories of when he first saw Cassandra and how they met. I suppose that one could describe this novel as a tender elegiac to Cassandra -- an old man's tender memories of the young woman he cared for. I liked the book for it's poignancy and it's tenderness. I also liked this novel because I thought that it belonged to the female characters of this mystery -- to Cassandra and Diana (who seems to understand what it is her father is going through even if she does not approve), and to the seven patrician women who may hold the key to the mystery of who murdered Cassandra and why. Of course we're only really treated to a thumbnail sketch of these women, but it did make for fascinating reading to read of the wives and daughters of the men who made Rome tremble and shake. I loved \\"A Mist of Prophecies\\" and fairly devoured it in one go. Steven Saylor did a fantastic job of getting the feel and mood of Rome (at that particualr time) right, as well as informing and relating to us the political realities of the period. \\"A Mist of Prophecies\\" is a wonderful read, and one that (in my opinion) should not be missed.	2002-05-10
1549653:US	52830980	R1ZUVHQ9Y8J9QW	0451205863	686774515	A Debt to Delia (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	a splendid read	The last couple of Barbara Metzger Regencies have been rather droll ones, full of wit and laughter. And if you're expecting the same from this latest Metzger offering, than you may be a little disappointed. The laughter is quite absent in &quot;A Debt to Delia.&quot; However I rather enjoyed the book, once I got over Delia's perplexing behavoir. Because I didn't mind that this novel was not full of a laugh-a-minute goings-on. I was just a little flabbergasted as to why (for at least 12 chapters) Delia refused to consider Lord Tyverne's offer of marriage. All was explained (though I had already come to suspect something of what was actually going on by then) in chapter 12; and from that point on the novel became a really splendid read about honour, sacrifice, doing the right thing, and love. (Though I do wish that Ms Metzger had not kept me in the dark for so long!)<br />Because George Croft gallantly saves Major Lord Tyverne's life during some rather fierce fighting, Tyverne feels that he owes Croft his life. Unfortunately, Croft was later killed, leaving Tyverne with a debt unpaid, and a heavy conscience for having survived while Croft died. Going through Croft's things, Tyverne finds a bunch of letters form Croft's family. And upon reading them, Tyverne discovers that things are a shambles at Croft's home: his unmarried sister, Delia, is pregnant and it looks as if the guilty man who seduced her has since taken to his heels, and the gentleman who was courting Delia, has since withdrawn his offer of marriage. Furthermore the relative into whose charge Croft had placed things is withholding some much needed funds, so that things are really tight at Faircroft House. To Tyverne, it looks as if Delia in need of rescuing. Seeing this as a way to repay the debt he owes Croft, Tyverne immediately makes for Faircroft House as soon as he lands in England. <br />Things however don't pan out the way he expects it to. To begin with, Delia Croft, instead of falling into his arms with gratitude, refuses his offer of marriage, because she wants a marriage based on love, not obligation. Tyverne is flabbergasted: how on earth could a woman who is about to have a child out of wedlock still cling to romantic nonsensical notions when she's about to face a life of social censure and near poverty? (On top of it all she also seems to be responsible for the well-being of an impoverished aunt as well as Croft's fiance, and Croft's heir has made it clear that he has no intention of taking care of so many dependents.) On the other hand, Tyverne finds that he is quite drawn to Delia's strength, courage and quiet good looks. However, being a rather gruff army man, he senses that he has blown things quite irrevocably with Miss Croft. Can Tyverne mend things so that he can convince Delia that he is capable of giving her the kind of marriage she craves for? Or has he blown things beyond all mending?<br />If you're looking for a book with a hero that is almost too noble for words, and a heroine that matches the hero for high minded behavoir, than &quot;A Debt to Delia&quot; will definitely satisfy. And while I did wonder at Delia's perverse behavoir in turning down Tavern's offer of marriage, once all is explained in chapter 12, I was able to settle back and enjoy this novel immensely as Tyverne clears up the mess that Croft left behind him and begins in earnest his campaign to win Delia's heart and approval. I couldn't help but approve of Major Lord Tyverne, and really rooted for him to succeed with Delia. And while Delia is a worthy and likable heroine, this novel, I felt really belonged to it's gruff and capable hero. Major Lord Tyverne is in a class of his own, and makes reading this novel a real treat!	2002-05-09
1550418:US	52830980	RJ6KVKFXB34C0	0451205804	923981954	Hazard	Books	5	14	16	N	N	a wonderful read	If you're looking for a romance novel that is rather racy and that is a bit heavy on the X-rating, than \\"Hazard\\" by Jo Beverly, will NOT be the romance novel for you. On the other hand if you're looking for a rather romantic novel about how a somewhat sheltered and reserved young lady learns to spread her wings and fly because of a specific set of circumstances, than this is definitely one romance novel that you will enjoy.<br />Lady Anne Peckworth has been rejected twice in the marriage stakes. And although there never was any real legal understanding between Anne and the two gentlemen concerned, Anne did feel the sting of rejection when they both married other ladies more outwardly beautiful and outgoing than she. Now however Lady Anne finds that she must marry and soon, for her younger sister, Marianne, has fallen in love with a neighbour (who happens to be a younger son and so has very little material expectations), and their mother (the Duchess of Aaran) has decreed that Marianne will be allowed to marry only after Anne has. And so Anne, while dreading the whole venture, has more or less girded herself to face another London Season, when her elder brother, Uffham, brings home that well known scapegrace Race De Vere to Lea Park. Race, while ostensibly acting as Uffham's secretary, manages to tease, beguile and tantalize Anne to the extent that she begins to wonder if he may the man for her afterall. But Race is a well known flirt, and after having been burnt twice, Anne is a little dubious about her ability to attract such a man. And than there is also the fact that Race's pedigree is murky at best and not at all what her mother would accept in a suitor for her daughter's hand. Determined to find the an 'acceptable' husband, Anne begins to make the usual foray into London society and with some success. But she cannot quite ignore the effect Race has on her, or how all other men seem to pale beside him. Will Anne decide to chance everything for love? Or will shechoose the safety of deciding on one of the many men who are pursuing her for her fortune and family connections?<br />I liked this novel very much. It is more character driven than anything else -- there is no murder or espionage subplot, and \\"Hazard\\" is definitely not a tale about angst-filled star-crossed love. Rather it is a tale of how a rather reserved young woman learns to spread her wings and to become the capable and charming individual she was always meant to be. \\"Hazard\\" is also not a Rogue novel, so don't expect the Rogues to feature very much in this novel at all. And while some aspects of Race's story -- his background, etc --  remain mysterious and unaccessible (I still cannot comprehend his father's actions), I think that Jo Beverly did a really good job in showing us why Race and Anne were meant to be. The story unfolded smoothly and seamlessly, and the manner in which Anne & Race's romance unfolded was a joy to read. The one thing I have always liked about Jo Beverly is that her novels are not always formulas: each is a unique variation of its own. And I thought that \\"Hazard\\" was definitely in a class of its own. So here's my advice: brew some tea and make some cucumber sandwiches. This is a novel, in my opinion anyway, to be savored.	2002-05-09
1550466:US	52830980	RQHEAEC54Q1S1	0312982631	46713946	Deadly Desire	Books	3	3	3	N	N	3 1/2 stars: not quite what I was expecting but still fun!	I've finally discovered the trick to letting go of several issues/reservations I have about Brenda Joyce's Francesca Cahill novels -- not to treat them as either mystery novels or romance novels, but more as historical novels about the continuing chronicles/saga of the Cahill family and everyone involved with and related to this family. This way, I give up throwing my hands up in despair over the fact that these novels are not really very satisfying mystery novels, and I stop obsessing about why Francesca's antics sometimes upset me so, and am able to just let go and enjoy the events that unfold before my eyes. For I'll admit this series is almost a guilty addiction. Francesca may (in my opinion anyway) be unhealthily engrossed with Police Commissioner Rick Bragg, but I'm dying to know how things will turn out for Sarah Channing (Francesca's about to be sister-in-law). Will she end her engagement with Evan Cahill and move on, hopefully to better things, and perhaps someone more interesting, mature and vital than that idiot Evan? I certainly hope so. Brenda Joyce (I think) seems to hint at such an outcome in this latest Francesca Cahill novel, and I'm thrilled. However on another note, I must own that I'm a little disappointed with \\"Deadly Desire,\\" because the excerpts from the previous books had led me to believe that \\"Deadly Desire\\" would focus more on Sarah. Sadly the mystery of who trashed Sarah's studio and why was sidelined in favour of the subplot involving Bragg's sister, Lucy. <br />Bragg's family are currently in town for a family reunion, and when Francesca meets Bragg's married sister, Lucy, she immediately senses a kindred spirit. Especially when Lucy insists on helping Francesca discover who has trashed Sarah's studio. However their joint investigation never really takes off. Francesca discovers that Lucy is being stalked. At first Lucy refuses to confide in Francesca. The stalking soon escalates to physical threats, and still Lucy refuses to confide inFrancesca or to tell her family what's going on. Francesca however is determined to discover what trouble her new friend is in and to help her out no matter what. But even Francesca is unprepared for the sheer malevolence of what happens next. <br />As usual, the bulk of this novel revolves around the several set issues that are affecting the members of the Cahill family: 1) Constance & Neil's falling apart marriage. May I say that I'm a little tired of this stale issue? I wish someone would either lock these two up in a room until they come to an understanding, or else (and I'm leaning towards this solution strongly) really shake them until their brains snap into place? 2) Evan & Sarah's engagement. Neither of them are really thrilled at being engaged to each other. And Evan is such a lightweight fribble. It looks as if (I'm crossing my fingers here) Brenda Joyce may be introducing a new character that may sweep Sarah off her feet. Let's hope these two get unengaged soon, and that Sarah finds happiness first! (petty aren't I?) And finally 3) the Franceca-Bragg-Hart triangle. Who will Francesca finally choose? And will either man be able to live with her decision? Tacked onto these issues is the subplot involving Lucy's troubles. It is a rather interesting subplot that sometimes seem to get lost in the mix. But I've come to expect this from this series, and so was not really flabbergasted this time around! \\"Deadly Desire\\" also (finally) introduces us to Bragg's estranged wife, Leigh Anne, as she puts in an appearance and makes her bid to come between Francesca and Bragg, thus adding to the tension as we wonder what on earth will happen next. I can see only one way out of all of this. But that would still leave the complication of Calder Hart (Bragg's half-brother) and Francesca's confused feelings for him. And why are Bragg and Hart constantly at odds with each other anyway?<br />On the whole, I enjoyed \\"Deadly Desire\\" a lot more than the other books in the series.Either my approach has changed, or things finally 'gelled' with this book. However I was disappointed that the mystery for which I bought this book didn't really materialize. And that was a letdown. I rate this novel at a very strong 31/2 stars.	2002-05-09
1552315:US	52830980	R3SBUBCUL17GCU	0451206061	632998131	A Game of Patience (Trialsman, 247)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	an excellent read	Elisabeth Fairchild's \\"A Game of Patience\\" reminded me quite a bit of Shirley Kennedy's \\"Lady Flora's Fantasy\\" -- there're both Regencies about young women who fall for a golden illusion that is not rooted in reality, while ignoring the real hero who happens to be in-love with them and to be right under their noses. However, that's as far as the similarities went: somehow \\"A Game of Patience\\" turned out to be a more poignant read, and was really about a lot more than Patience Ballard's idealized hero worship of her childhood friend, Philip Yorke (Pip), the Earl of Royston; and her other childhood friend, Richard Cavensdish's unrequited love for her. It is also about friendship, and the particular bond that holds Patience, Pip and Richard together. And it also about growing up, and the giving up of childhood-girlish dreams in order to realize better, more mature ones.<br />Patience Ballard decided when she was 8 years old that she was going to grow up and marry her childhood playmate, the fun loving and flamboyant Pip Yorke. A grown up 17 year old Patience however discovers that her dreams are not so easy to accomplish, for Pip instead of waiting to discover that SHE is the woman for him, has gotten himself engaged to a rich society beauty. Now, however Patience is in London for her own Season, and it is her devout hope that somewhere along the way, Pip will discover his 'real' feelings for her. Patience hopes are further bolstered by Pip's odd behavior: he seems not to spend very much time with his fiance, and doesn't seem to be very interested in her either. But Pip seems to show very little interest in Patience as well (aside from being pleased that an old friend is in London at the moment). Patience soon finds herself treading a very fine line between euphoria and depression; and if it were not for her other childhood friend, Richard, Patience is sure that she would be quite sunk in despair. Dear, sweet, dependable Richard, who bolsters her ego and who is alwaystaking care of her. What would she do without him? And then Patience discovers that Richard is hopelessly in love with someone who does not reciprocate his love. Patience cannot understand anyone not returning Richard's love, and is saddened for her friend's plight. But this also causes her to examine what her life would be like without Richard. As Patience slowly comes to realize the impact that Richard has had on her life, she also comes to see that she must more carefully consider the ties of friendship and affection that bind her to both Pip and Richard, and decided what (and who) it is she really wants...<br />What I liked about \\"A Game of Patience\\" most was that there was no standout villain. Everyone was slightly flawed in some way or the other; and not everyone behaved very well either. So that I couldn't find it in me to outrightly disapprove of any one character (save Richard's elder brother, Chase) very much. For example, I was unable to feel irritated with Patience over her obsession with Pip, because she was after all only 17 when the novel opens. And as for Pip, while his behaviour left a lot to be desired, he wasn't an outright cad either -- merely weak and spoilt. Richard (the really dependable character in this novel) is the rock upon whom all his friends have come to rely. And Elisabeth Fairchild did a wonderful job of gradually showing us what a gem he was -- you cannot but help approving of a man who loves steadfastly and true, even when the object of his affections doesn't even realize that he has a pulse! I liked the pacing of the novel -- the events chronicled in this book took place over a period of a year, instead of a few weeks or months as is the case of most Regencies. And I think this longer time span added more texture to the novel. \\"A Game of Patience\\" is much more than the usual Regency read in that it doesn't merely concentrate on romance.  And Ms Fairchild didn't unnecessarily pad her novel with a murder or spy or nefarious doings subplot. Rather, this is an intelligent novel about the coming of age of a young lady, and a story about the bonds of friendship and love. And is well worth a 5 star rating.	2002-05-07
1554111:US	52830980	R1HLRLIFK1MCYH	0425184293	338930039	Symptoms of Death (Dr. Alexandra Gladstone Mysteries)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	interesting murder mystery, but characters were bland	\\"Symptoms of Death\\" starts out promising enough: Edward Boswick, the fifth Earl of Dunsford, has invited a small party of intimate friends to his country estate of Montmarsh near the little village of Newton-Upon-Sea; when while at dinner, a distraught kitchen maid, bursts in upon the guests, threatening to kill the earl with a carving knife. It turns out that the maid (Elsie O' Riley)'s young man (George Stirling) has been murdered, and Elsie seems to believe that the earl had something to do with George's death. Fortunately for all, the village's lady doctor, Alexander Gladstone, is present at this select dinner. And she competently takes over by helping to disarm the hysterical Elsie and removing her from the scene. Dr. Gladstone doesn't believe that Elsie is really dangerous or that she is actually out to do the earl any harm. She believes that Elsie is just distraught, and that all she really needs is for someone to listen to her woes and to offer her a shoulder to cry on. So you can imagine the good doctor's surprise when she arrives at Montmarsh the next morning to find that the earl has been murdered, and that Elsie is the only suspect of the crime!<br />Dr. Gladstone however still refuses to jump to conclusions; and her preliminary examination of the earl's body bolsters her belief that Elsie is not the murderess everyone believes her to be. For it looks as if the earl was first strangled to death and then stabbed. Not everyone however (esp the village constable, Mr. Snow) shares Dr. Gladstone's view. Dr. Gladstone, however, does have one ally: Nicky Forsythe, the earl's distant relative and a barrister. Together, Gladstone and Forsythe start looking more closely at the other members of the house party to discover who, other than Elsie, had a reason to wish the earl dead, and who actually carried out the deed. <br />While the mystery is interesting enough, I had problems with Paula Paul's prose style -- it was a little too stagy for my taste. Also the characters left a lot to be desired: Dr. Gladstone was a little too cold and remote, while Nicky Forsythe was at times a little too vapid! It made the attraction between the two, while probable and believable, incredibly boring. Most of the other characters in this mystery novel were more or less familiar stock types -- the seemingly upright nobles who were really reeking of corruption and debauchery; the gossiping and malicious countess; the wife of easy virtue, etc. Only two characters broke the mold: Dr. Gladstone's housekeeper-friend, Nancy, who in spite of her belligerent and pushing ways, happened to be the only intelligent and interesting character in this mystery novel; and the Constable Snow, who because of Paul's reticent depiction, comes across as being a rather enigmatical, shadowy character, who may or may not be corrupt. With all my nitpicking, you'd think I'd advise against reading this book all together. To the contrary: the mystery is really quite intriguing and engrossing. And Paul does a rather good job of maintaining that air of suspense, so that you have no choice but to carry on reading in order to discover who murdered the earl and why. I just wish that the primary characters (Gladstone and Forsythe) had been worthy of this clever little murder mystery.	2002-05-06
1554185:US	52830980	RYYGDQT60YA84	0385503970	295932611	The Master of Rain	Books	5	16	18	N	N	a gripping, haunting and compelling read	Reading \\"The Master of Rain\\" is a bit like immersing yourself in a really good and gripping black and white American noir flick from the '40s. The ingredients are all there: a prostitute is found brutally murdered, and the young policeman (Richard Field, fresh off the boat from Yorkshire) assigned to this his first major murder case, is determined to prove himself and to discover who perpetrated this heinous crime, no matter what. But then there is the complication of the murdered woman's beautiful neighbour (Natasha Medvedev), with whom Field finds himself perilously drawn to, and who has her own share of painful and dangerous secrets to hide...<br />Field soon finds himself trying to navigate through waters he doesn't quite understand. To begin, the police department (a multinational concern) is split up into two rival departments -- Special Branch that deals mainly with the communist threat, and the Criminal Division which deals with all other types of crime, like murder, theft, etc -- that are at odds with each other. Neither division quite trusts the other, and each suspects the other of consorting with the local crime lord, Lu Huang. Field has been assigned to Special Branch, but finds himself seconded to the Criminal Branch for the duration of this investigation into the murder of Lena Orlov. The ritualistic and savage manner with which the murder was carried out suggests that the murderer has struck before, and that he will strike again. In the face of public apathy (after all the victim was only another Russian prostitute), Field soon finds that his only allies to solving this murder happen to be the two detectives he's currently working with, Caprisi and Chen. But the more they investigate, the more evidence they uncover of corruption and criminal activity. No one seems above board. Alone in a land whose politics and culture he doesn't quite understand, and finding himself being constantly advised by everyone to trust no one, and to be careful of what hisactions will wrought, Field soon finds himself even beginning to doubt both Caprisi and Chen. As one character in the book states, people come to Shanghai to either escape their past, or else to enrich themselves. Can Field afford to trust his partners? And will they be able to apprehend Lena Orlov's murderer before he strikes again? Or will this crime, like so many others, be swept under the rug of political expediency? And what of Natasha? Is she as ignorant as she claims of Lena's comings and goings? Or is she hiding something? With his own share of personal demons that he has to contend with, Field is nevertheless determined to discover who this serial killer is, and to put an end to his reign of terror.<br />This is definitely the mystery novel of the year (so far anyway). What a fantastically engrossing read! While the novel does unfold in a rather slow and circular manner, Tom Bradby had done an excellent job of steeping \\"The Master of Rain\\" with ambiance and atmosphere, that reading every single word so that I got every nuance, seemed terribly important. I thought that the authour had done a really good job of bringing Shanghai of the 1920s -- the sights and sounds as well as the political, social and economic realities -- to life. I also thought that Bradby had done a wonderful job of depicting and bringing to life all the characters in this novel -- esp the torn and tormented Fields. All in all, \\"The Master of Rain\\" is a rich and haunting novel not to be missed.	2002-05-06
1556085:US	52830980	RWHB95B2HH04D	0515132926	958640035	Lady in Waiting (Sinclair Family Saga)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	an entertaining read	A sequel to &quot;Dear Impostor,&quot; &quot;Lady In Waiting&quot; by Nicole Byrd is a lively and charming romance novel that is sure to please. Miss Circe Hill has spent the last few years living in the Continent, learning to paint and broadening her horizons; and she's been having a wonderful time. Now, however she's received a missive from her elder sister, Psyche, begging her to come home and have a London Season. It's the very last thing she wants to do; but feeling that she has a duty to oblige her sister, Circe reluctantly packs up and leaves for London. Only the thought that she will again meet David Lydford, the Earl of Westbury (her brother-in-law's best friend), a gentleman she has secretly been in love with for a long time, sustains her. Perhaps now that she has attained a measure of sophistication David will finally recognise that she is a woman worthy of courting?<br />But almost as soon as she meets David again, she realises that her hopes are doomed. For David has metamorphosed from a rakish and elegant young man to a very proper and correct one. David has decided that it is about time that he marry and set up his nursery. And the type of wife he has decided on is the very antithesis of Circe: a meek, biddable and very proper young lady. However, right now he needs Circe to agree to a pretend courting just so that can get his mother off his back (so he says: actually he's on a secret mission for his uncle, and he needs a cover). Circe, while she is saddened that she does not match David's requirements for a wife, agrees to help him out, even if she does sense that there's something else going on! And so the charade begins -- but not entirely to David liking. For David never anticipated that so many other men would find Circe with her forthright and unconventional ways so appealing. And he soon finds himself torn between carrying out his surveillance mission, and (jealously) keeping an eye on the suddenly popular Circe, esp now that she has attractedthe attention of a rather dangerous Austrian diplomat...<br />&quot;Lady In Waiting&quot; was an entirely witty, breezy and really delightful read. The badinage between the very clever Circe and the sometimes really dense David were an absolute joy to read. Nicole Byrd (the mother and daughter team of Cheryl Zach &amp; Michelle Place) really struck gold with this book. The conversations and prose style was smooth and lively, and the storyline -- the developing romance between Circe and David, and the various subplots involving Austrian agents, a stolen Titian, and another romance involving two other secondary characters -- was entertaining and stimulating to boot. &quot;Lady In Waiting&quot; is definitely a read not to be missed!	2002-05-04
1557817:US	52830980	R36L4W5CWCLG6E	082177235X	813303662	A Scandalous Connection (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	secondary romance subplot saves this novel	&quot;A Scandalous Connection&quot; has all the necessary trademarks so that one could describe this Regency as a delicious romp. Whether or not readers find this romance novel a delicious romp or not however, is I believe going to be a matter of personal inclination. But, a romp it certainly is! What with ingredients such as a gaggle of marriage minded mamas and their twittering daughters, an irrepressible young lady on the brink of making her come-out, a haughty 'almost' fiance, and a duke that masquerades as his butler ... it cannot be anything but!<br />Demian, the Duke of Darris, is an extremely charming, good looking and responsible young man, with only one defect -- he is almost penniless. In need of funds in order to restore his estates and to give his sister a proper come-out, Demian has resorted to proposing marriage to Lady Raquel Fortesque-Benton, a very correct and haughty society beauty and heiress. However, Lady Raquel's proud and supercilious manners also grates on Demian's nerves, and what he wouldn't give to have taken down a peg or two. Or so he complains to his best friend, Thomas Endicott. With nothing else better to do with his life (or so I'm guessing) Thomas volunteers to teach Lady Raquel her much needed lesson. He promisees not to compromise the young lady's virtue, but to merely see to it that she changes her ways. You have to hand to the men in this novel -- they willingly agree to undertake any unpleasant task in order to help out a friend!<br />Demian, has in the mean time received a missive from his harebrained sister (Lady Caroline), hinting that she has set in motion a plan that will end their money problems. Fully cognizant of how Lady Caroline's plans usually fall apart at the seams, Demian makes at once for Darris. (It is understood that Thomas will bring the newly chastised Lady Raquel to Derris in a few days time.) Upon reaching Darris, Demain discovers that his sister has undertaken to host a group of merchants' wives and daughters (to the tune of 10,000 pounds) to a day at Darris. Demian is appalled, and is all set to rebuff the group especially since it is only all too clear that the women have turned up hoping to meet Demain and to try their collective hands at snagging him for one of their own daughters! But he changes his mind as soon as he spies Miss Amy Mayhew. She alone seems mortified and chagrined at being a member of such a pushing, vulgar group; and she's enchantingly beautiful to boot. In the spirit of mischief (and because he wants to get to know this charming beauty), he masquerades as his own butler. And so the stage is set: what will happen when Amy realises that Demian is actually the duke? And how can this new romance proceed when he is 'almost' engaged to Lady Raquel?<br />Fortunately for me the subplot involving Lady Raquel's 'taming' by Thomas Endicott proved much more edifying than the rather tame romance between Demain and Amy. And it was this secondary subplot that made this novel a lot more interesting and absorbing. Unfairly, or not, I got tired of Demian -- Hayley Ann Solomon reminded me once too often of how wonderful a man Demian was! And Amy, while she was an intelligent and somewhat charming young lady began to bore me as well. What a welcome relief haughty, prickly and difficult Lady Raquel was! I think that Ms Solomon did a wonderful job of tantalizing the reader with the sizzling attraction that was building between Thomas and Lady Raquel. This definitely would have been a 4 star book if only Thomas and Lady Raquel had been the focal point of the novel. (Also there were instances of misuse of titles.) So here's my advice read the chapters that dealt with Thomas and Lady Raquel, and skim through the rest. You won't miss much, and you'll definitely appreciate the secondary subplot.	2002-05-02
1557861:US	52830980	R2OVT1DQ4GAC1M	0380816067	957716199	Murder Down the Shore: A Jersey Shore Mystery	Books	4	10	11	N	N	a fun read	I love the Anne Hardaway mystery series. I'm not exactly sure why -- it's not really one of those 'cozy' small town mysteries, nor is it one that's filled with wacky, quirky characters whose antics amuse one no end. Indeed, some of the books in this series have been angst filled and rather stark and dour in tone. So why am I such a fan? As far as I can tell, I like this series mainly because of it's detecting heroine, Anne Hardaway. A struggling ghostwriter (in her late 30s, and a bit of a loner), trying hard to make ends meet and who still lives in the same house she grew up in, Anne is an entirely appealing character, that most readers are bound to find completely engaging. And the mysteries in this series have (so far) been rather compelling and interesting ones as well.<br />Things are finally beginning to look up for Anne. She's currently working on book of advice for pet owners, and the authour she's currently working with has (so far) turned out to be an absolute joy. And best of all, her relationship with Detective Mark Trasker is going rather well too. So why would Anne want to borrow trouble by deciding to host a family reunion? The death of her grandmother, Betty Hardaway, four months ago has left Anne with the need to reconnect with family. And so, Anne has decided to invite her wealthy Great-aunt Hannah (from her mother's side of the family), along with the cousins she grew up with -- Henry (Great-aunt Hannah's son), Cece, Nora (Anne's favourite cousin), Alex and Millie. In her mind, it seems like a good idea: the family would be reunited again, there'd be lots of fun and laughter, with the sun and beach of Ocean Heights as the backdrop to the whole event. The reality however includes Great-aunt Hannah's new 'boyfriend' whose supercilious behaviour manages to make everyone's teeth grate, and the unpleasant fact that Hannah and her son are not speaking to one another. Things take an especially nasty turn however when Hannah is found stabbed to death on the beach, and the murder weapon turns out to be one of Anne's knives! Because of Trasker's relationship with Anne, he recuses himself from the case, which turns out to be a really bad thing for Anne. Because the detective in charge of the case happens to be small minded bully who is only all too willing to believe that Anne killed Hannah for the money she was to have inherited from her. With her freedom on the line, Anne has no choice but to start looking into Hannah's life as well as those of her cousins'as she tries to figure who set up to take the blame for Hannah's murder. What Anne discovers will both sadden and chill as she tries to figure out which one of her relatives murdered Hannah.<br />The mystery unfolded at a brisk, swift and smooth pace, and there were enough false trails and red herring suspects to keep most mystery addicts happily glued to the pages. My only compliant was that I wished the novel had been a longer one, so that there could have been even more plot exposition and so that certain characters could have been even more developed. Other than that \\"Murder Down the Shore\\" was a really fun read.	2002-05-02
1559159:US	52830980	R14J3WY3NF8CSB	0553581856	594204929	A Kiss to Remember (Once Upon a Time)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	great fun in spite of some plot 'niggles'	I'm definitely a cat person. And when I read the very touching dedication that Teresa Medeiros wrote to her cat, I practically melted -- esp since I had also lost my miracle kitty about a year ago. So I was predisposed to like \\"A Kiss to Remember\\" even before I read it. And all in all, in spite of some reservations I had about certain plot implausibilities, I rather did enjoy this novel quite a bit.<br />The novel opens with young Sterling Harlow being 'sold' by his parents to his granduncle, the Duke of Devonbrooke. The Duke needs an heir, and Sterling's father a notorious gambler, needs money. And so the nasty little deal is struck, and Sterling is whisked away by the cold and autocratic old man to learn to become the perfect duke; he never sees his parents again, and he never gets over the bitterness he feels towards his parents (his mother in particular) at having being 'sold.' The years past, and Sterling has become quite the notorious rakehell. Still angry with his mother, he has never responded to any of her overtures for forgiveness. And then he receives a curt letter from the vicar's daughter, Laura Fairleigh, informing him that his mother is dead. Impulsively, Sterling decides to make for Arden Manor to see his onetime home -- and to evict the Fairleighs while he is there. <br />When Laura's parents died, Lady Eleanor, (Sterling's mother) took in Laura and her two siblings, giving them a home at Arden Manor. Now, with Lady Eleanor's death, it looks as if the Fairleighs will become homeless again -- unless Laura marries before her 21st birthday. In a strange move, Lady Eleanor has left matters in such a way so that Laura will inherit Arden Manor, but only if she marries before her 21st birthday, and said birthday is only a few weeks away! Torn between anger at Sterling for his cruel treatment of his mother, and desperation because she must marry soon in order to secure a future for her siblings and herself, Laura is almost worn down with despair, when she comes across an unconscious man in the forest. Laura is sure that God has answered her prayers, for the handsome stranger seems to have no memory of who he is. And so Laura decides to use this stranger (whom she renames Nicholas) for her own means. She tells him that he is her fiance, and that they are to be married soon. Thus, we're set up for the fireworks that are bound to ensue when Nicholas regains his memory and Laura realises who it is she has married.<br />The problem I had with this novel all stemmed from the fact that Medeiros didn't take into account the limited rights of women at the time. For example, Laura's sublime belief that once she marries everything will be all right. Marriage laws of the time would have meant that Nicholas would have been in full charge of whatever monies and lands she inherited (unless the will specifically stated otherwise, which I somehow doubt given that Lady Eleanor herself overlooked the fact that she couldn't leave Arden Manor to Laura anyway). And if Nicholas had turned out to be a scoundrel -- well she would have been worst off than she was in the beginning of the novel! Another thing I couldn't understand was, barring whether or not her will was legal, why Lady Eleanor wrote a will that basically put Laura in such a bind, and that also tied her to a man, given what Lady Laura herself suffered at her husband's hands. The other thing that gave me pause was Sterling's long-standing anger at his mother. The law at the time did not recognise a mother's right to her children. Children belonged the father, and he could do pretty much whatever he wanted. At some point Sterling should have realised (intellectually at least if not emotionally) that his mother had no say in his father's decision to 'sell' him to his granduncle. <br />Other than those few reservation that I had, \\"A Kiss to Remember\\" is a really fun read. The characters are all engaging ones, esp Laura and her siblings; and the novel unfolded easily enough. I especially liked the middle of the novel which deals with developing relationship between the Fairleighs and Nicholas. It's funny and touching in turns and really sets this novel above the averagely good read that most historical romances usually are. I also loved the end of the book, where the hero asks Laura for forgiveness for the manner in which he has been treating her. \\"A Kiss to Remember\\" is a slightly above average good read, as well as a charming one that should please most readers.	2002-05-01
1559444:US	52830980	RZ001QHEMTFIN	0821770438	893168130	Rules Of Marriage (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	a terrific read: much, much more than a romance novel	Every now and then I come across a novel that is so much more than an averagely good romance read. And &quot;The Rules of Marriage&quot; by Wilma Counts (though I'm still not too sure as to why the book was titled thus) is exactly such a novel. This historical novel is actually more about what the wives of the 'ordinary' soldiers faced and endured as they followed their husbands into battle than anything else; and it is a terrific read. A word of warning however: avoid the blurb at the beginning of the book. It gives away far too much about the plot!<br />The opening chapter takes place in 1808 with the marriage of a very young 17 year old Rachel Cameron to Edwin Brady, a sergeant in His Majesty's Army. And almost from the very beginning, the reader is privy to the fact that Rachel has made a very bad mistake in her decision to marry the good looking and engaging Brady. The next chapter takes place four years later, and the reader's worst fears are realised: Brady is a brute, who seems to enjoy manhandling Rachel. Rachel's only solace in her intolerable situation is nursing the wounded soldiers (much to her husband's disapproval). And it is because of her nursing skills that Rachel and Major Lord Jacob Forrester meet. Forrester has been badly wounded, and the doctors have all but given him up as a hopeless case, when Rachel steps in. Empathetically drawn to the grievously injured man, Rachel decides to take on his nursing personally. She saves his life and she soon finds herself growing dangerously attracted to Forrester. Just as Forrester himself finds that he is falling for Rachel. However Rachel is an honourable and married woman, even if she tied to the brutish Brady. Rachel soon finds herself in an untenable situation when, jealous of all the care and attention that Rachel is giving the wounded Forrester, Brady is inspired to behave evenmore spitefully and outrageously. What follows than is a tale of how Rachel struggles to maintain her integrity and to endurein the face of Brady's terrible and unreasonable behavior. But will she be able to survive his brutality, or will he finally break her?<br />&quot;Rules of Marriage&quot; proved to be an engaging and absorbing read. I really liked that Wilma Counts took such care to paint the horrors of war, as well as the grim realities of life in an army camp. (And I loved all the historical and political bits about the Peninsula campaign.) This is a very well written and thought out book; and the manner in which the novel unfolded, tying past events with current ones, so that we were given a more in depth 'look' at the characters -- their histories and the reasons why they've acted and behaved in certain ways -- added texture to this novel. The romance between Forrester and Rachel is pretty much a backdrop in this novel, but I was not disappointed by this. Because for me, this novel was more about how a plucky young woman, who has suffered much and endured even more, finally gets everything she deserves. &quot;Rules of Marriage&quot; deserves much more than a 5 star rating; and it is the kind of book that one can read and reread without ever getting bored. Definitely a keeper.	2002-05-01
1560056:US	52830980	R3FWH7SK4DOIPB	0060082739	92035455	Gallows Thief	Books	5	15	15	N	N	a terrifically good and exciting read	I really do hope that \\"Gallows Thief\\" is the first book in a projected series. It was such a swashbucklingly good read, full of ambiance that's really evocative of the age, and a parade of lovingly detailed characters (both the good and the creepy) that stayed with me long after I finished the book. Definitely, \\"Gallows Thief\\" is a must read for all historical mystery fans.<br />Charles Corday, a young portrait painter has been found guilty of the rape and murder of Lady Avebury, whose portrait he was in the process of painting, and he is to hang in a weeks' time. However, Corday also happens to be the son of the Queen's seamstress. And the seamstress has petitioned the Queen for the case to be reinvestigated, and Lord Sidmouth, the Secretary of State in the Home Department is not happy at all. HE is sure of Corday's guilt and that the case was properly investigated, and is rather affronted that political pressure has been applied for Corday's guilt (or lack of) to be confirmed. He needs someone to do a pro-forma investigation -- to go through the motions, not create and waves and not to uncover any new evidence, but to merely reconfirm Corday's guilt. And the man that Sidmouth has been recommended for such a job happens to be Rider Sandman, a veteran of the Peninsula campaign, who happens to be currently without a job or funds. The job is a temporary one, but the reward for a job well done is substantial. And so Sandman accepts the commission and sets of for the Old Bailey in order to interview Corday and wring a confession out of him. What he finds however is a pathetic creature who (in Sandman's mind at least) seems an unlikely rapist-murderer. Corday further flabbergasts Sandman by claiming that he was never alone with the Countess and that her maid was always with them as a chaperone. Said maid has since disappeared, thus was unable to provide Corday with an alibi. Confused, Sandman is unsure what his next course of action should be -- should he ignore what Corday's claims or should he look for the mysteriously missing maid? With the help of some rather unlikely characters (his good friend, the Reverend Lord Alexander Pleydell, and actress Sally Hood) Sandman begins his unsolicited quest for the truth.<br />\\"Gallows Thief\\" was a truly fun and absorbing read. Bernard Cornwell really made England of the early 19th century come alive -- the sights and sounds and smells and the feel ... it was all there. If you're looking for a good historical novel that gives consideration to the social and political realities of the time, you'll be more than satisfied with this book. The plot unfolded in a brisk and smooth manner, and I was so caught up with what was going on, that I fairly devoured the book in one go! And the hero of this book (hopefully series) is bound to engage as well -- kind, honest, noble yet proud -- very much the white knight of detecting! All in all, \\"Gallows Thief\\" is a terrifically good and exciting read, and one that (esp if you are a Regency mystery addict) should not be missed.	2002-05-01
1571149:US	52830980	R19BU59QVJD7M3	1564743861	293333429	Never Fade Away	Books	4	6	8	N	N	a surprisingly engrossing read	I tend to read mysteries and historical fiction (esp Regency romances), and when I do read modern fiction, it's usually fiction written by Brits. So you could say that \\"Never Fade Away\\" is not usually the type of novel I would normally pick up. Having owned to that, I must say that I'm really glad that I did read this book. What a surprising engaging and absorbing read! I was literally '[pulled] in' by this novel. Not only did the main plot (that of Vietnamese student Tina Le's both rewarding and frustrating experiences at trying to be a good student and to fit in) resonate strongly with me, it also took me back to my first year as a freshman at IU, where in spite of having obtained an A for English for my GCE 'A' levels, I had to take a basic composition class where I was \\"taught\\" all over again the fine art of sentence construction by an American  student graduate instructor. But enough of that! My purpose here is not to rant about past wrongs but to urge those of you who have not yet read this book, to do so. \\"Never Fade Away\\" is a truly excellent read. Even if you're not into novels about campus politics and shady departmental doings, I can assure you that you'll find \\"Never Fade Away\\" especially memorable because of its spunky and taking heroine, Tina Le. I really liked the manner in which William Hart depicted and developed this character. It was a real treat watching her grow and become more self reliant and sure of herself. The real \\"plus\\" about this book was that Hart makes you care about the unfortunate English language students at this hellish university (Tina and her friends, Mariko and Araceli, especially) and for the quixotic writing instructor, John Goddard, who has decided to tilt at the malicious windmills of incompetence at the English department at CMU. And in spite of the fact that this novel is basically about one man's against-all-odds-fight, the book does end on a surprisingly upbeat note. And this makes \\"Never Fade Away\\" all the more touchingand poignant. <br />The manner in which the novel is constructed together with it's prose style, lent an immediacy to the novel, and this allowed for the book to be a smooth and effortless read. Some readers may find the manner in which Hart has portrayed the characters in the book to be a little stark and with very little frills. I however felt that this approach suited the tone and ambiance of the novel very well. All in all, \\"Never Fade Away\\" is a very powerful and engrossing read, and really deserves a more strenuous publicity blitzing than it is currently getting!	2002-04-22
1574127:US	52830980	R1JML1RJOFMXF7	0312282621	204954863	The Pillow Book of Lady Wisteria (Sano Ichiro Novels)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	an engaging and suspenseful read	Be prepared to find yourself totally immersed in the goings on of the 17th century Tokugawa court! When the shogun's heir presumptive, Lord Mitsuyoshi, is found murdered in Yoshiwara (Edo's pleasure quarter), Sano Ichiro, the shogun's Most Honourable Investigator of Events, Situations and People, is called in to investigate and to apprehend the murderer. <br />Unfortunately, Sano has not yet fully recovered from his last dangerous mission (\\"Black Lotus\\"), and is still having horrific nightmares about it. And it is beginning to look as if this current investigation is about to unleash more bad memories for Sano to deal with, as the courtesan whose bed Lord Mitsuyoshi was found dead in is none other than that of Lady Wisteria, a woman that Sano himself was entangled with in the very first book in this series, \\"Shinju.\\" Lady Wisteria is now mysteriously missing, and Sano is sure that she holds the key to solving this murder. Working against time, esp since Edo's new Chief Police Commissioner Hoshina (and enemy of Sano's, previously featured in \\"The Samurai's Wife\\") will do anything to solve the case before him, Sano and his trusty aide, Hirata, begin scouring the byways of the pleasure sector, hoping to find clues and the elusive Lady Wisteria. But too many people have far too much to hide. Will Sano be able to discover who Lord Mitsuyoshi's murderer is? Or will Hoshina beat him to the punch?<br />I love this series. You can always count on Laura Joh Rowland to provide readers (and fans) with a plot that is intricate, full of twists and turns, red herring suspects, and a mystery novel that is steeped in historical fact and ambiance. Another thing I liked about this mystery in particular was the manner in which Reiko, Sano's plucky wife, figured into the plot. In previous books, Reiko's desire to be a full partner in Sano's investigation has been a sore point of contention between them. But events in the \\"Black Lotus\\" had shaken and tested not only Sano, but Reiko as well, to the extent that Reiko is no longer as confident and as sure of her abilities and judgement as she would like to be. In \\"The Pillow Book of Lady Wisteria,\\" we see how the events of \\"Black Lotus\\" have indeed taken it's toll on Reiko, but how, in spite of everything she still strives to help and counsel Sano, and that, this time around, he does accept her help.<br />\\"The Pillow Book of Lady Wisteria\\" is a fascinating and tantalizing read, ad one that should not be missed, esp if you are a historical mystery buff.	2002-04-19
1575219:US	52830980	RVAUWKNX6RKJ2	0451203445	866809938	Kissing Cousins (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	a delightful and engaging read	If you're looking for an engaging and heartwarming read, than you can't go terribly wrong with Nadine Miller's &quot;Kissing Cousins.&quot; The plot premise is a very familiar one: an about-to-be-married bachelor, who thinks that he has more or less mapped out every contingency in life -- right political moves and patronage, the right fiance, etc, finds his life taking an unexpected turn when a family of orphans lands on his doorstep and basically makes him question every assumption and decision he's ever made.<br />When Cassandra Markham's father dies leaving the family destitute, she remembers his advice that she seek out his distant cousin for help. And so Cassandra packs up her family and makes for London. It is her hope that said cousin, the Earl of Worthing, will help her find a husband who would be willing to not only take on a penniless bride, but her three siblings as well. Once there however, Cassandra finds to her dismay that her father's cousin is dead, and that it is his son, Simon, who is now the new Earl of Worthing. However, Simon's mother seems determined to help the orphan Markhams and she manages to get that her son to agree to help Cassandra find a husband.<br />To Lady Worthing's dismay, Simon has patterned himself after her stiff-rumped and ever correct dead husband; and it is her private hope that the Markham siblings, and Cassandra in particular, will shake up Simon's equilibrium before he becomes too stodgy and set in his ways. And indeed Lady Worthing hopes seem destined to be realised, for Simon finds that knowing Cassandra, with all her courage, integrity and unjaded ways, makes him question all his previously held assumptions.  Cassandra's beauty, intelligence and sweetness of nature also begins to make Simon question his decision to marry for suitability rather than love, as to his horror he finds himself falling in love with one woman but honour bound to marry another...<br />&quot;Kissing Cousins&quot; proved to be a really delightfuland enjoyable read. Even though the plot was a really basic one with very little frills and fancies, the characters (both secondary and primary) were all so engaging and beguiling that I couldn't help but root for everyone to find the happiness that they deserved. I liked the manner in which Ms Miller fleshed out her characters, Simon's in particular. We got to see the gradual loosening of this character, and it was believable and wroth it. Some readers may find Simon's slowness to acknowledge his love for Cassandra a little irritating, but given that it took him a great many years to learn to be reserved and stiff and very, very conservative, I think we can forgive him his reluctance to own that he has fallen for a young lady who is the very antithesis of his idea of the ideal mate! <br />All in all, &quot;Kissing Cousins&quot; is a terrifically engaging read not to be missed.	2002-04-18
1577000:US	52830980	R3EMFYVSG4VGU2	082177171X	180941154	The Wedding Wish (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	a terrific read	&quot;The Wedding Wish&quot; finishes the Creswell sisters trilogy, and I think that it is the best one of the three. The characters are better developed, as are the many subplots. Debbie Raleigh has done a wonderful job of weaving together the several diverse subplots into one magnificent whole, so that the end result is one very interesting and intriguing romance novel. <br />After another public blow up with Lady Broswell, flirtatious Rachel Creswell has decided to take the war into the enemy camp by accepting her good friend's (Violet Carlfield) invitation to visit her in the country and celebrate Violet's engagement of marriage. Rachel, of course, is the youngest daughter of that notorious jewel thief, the Devilish Dandy; and ever since her father's arrest (and daring escape from prison), Rachel has been thumbing her nose at the London ton by attending every fashionable do, and behaving as outrageously and as flirtatiously as possible. For high sticklers like Lady Broswell, Rachel's behaviour is beyond the pale. And when she upbraids Rachel publicly and quite viciously at the London Opera House, Rachel decides to settle Lady Broswell's hash once and for all. It is Rachel's plan to visit her friend Violet (Violet lives just a stone's throw away from the Broswell estate), and to detach Lord Newell away from the Broswell grasp (Lady Broswell has earmarked Newell for one of her daughters). However, once at the Carlfield estate, Rachel finds that things are not going exactly according to plan. To begin with father has decided (for reasons of his own) to tag along, and Rachel cannot help but fear for his safety; and then she finds that her sweet and shy friend is being forced to marry a rather sanctimonious and dry stick of a man. But the biggest complication comes in the form of the mysterious inventor Anthony Clarke. A gentleman, whom unlike others, Rachel cannot wrap around her finger, but who makes her senses swim. Suddenly the plan to seduce Newell away from theBroswell camp seems completely unappetizing. Distracted by worry for both her father and friend, Rachel must now decide what it is she really wants -- revenge on Lady Broswell or a chance at love with Anthony.<br />What I really liked about this novel was that we got to see another side of Rachel Creswell. Hitherto, we'd only seen the care-for-all and spendthrift side of her character; but with &quot;The Wedding Wish&quot; we get to see the caring, compassionate and loyal side of Rachel. This made her a much more appealing and complex heroine, and one that I really liked. I also liked the manner in which Raleigh allowed for the romance (which was quite electric) between Rachel and Anthony to unfold; and that in spite of the fact that Anthony was described as being a rather reclusive individual and of an intellectual bent, he was not portrayed as a stiff, sanctimonious twit, but as incredibly appealing and sensual gentleman instead. &quot;The Wedding Wish&quot; is a terrific read and should not be missed!	2002-04-17
1585401:US	52830980	R1YO3FRGYEG76H	0805070583	439605009	Spies: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	a haunting read	&quot;Spies&quot; is one man's poignant and haunting recollection of events that took place during WWII. It's also a disturbing yet immensely compelling read. Michael Frayn does a wonderful job of projecting the tense yet excitingly secretive world that the boys (protagonist Stephen Wheatley and his more affluent friend Keith) inhabit. In some ways, &quot;Spies&quot; reminded me a lot of L. P. Hartley's &quot;The Go-Between,&quot; in that it also dealt with the similar theme of a young boy who becomes involved in the secretive lifes of the adults around him, and who had little real understanding of what was really going on, and what the stakes really were. <br />It's true that the language with which Frayn has chosen to tell his story takes a little getting used to. But I did think that it lent itself to the ambiance of events that were unfolding before my eyes. I also liked the manner in which Frayn fleshes out the unlikely and quite improbable friendship that Keith and Stephen share: Keith is the leader and goes to the &quot;right local preparatory school&quot; while Stephen is portrayed as a follower and someone who is rather ineffectual and who also goes to the &quot;wrong&quot; prep school. As such it is true that it is a little difficult to take Stephen to heart, esp as he seems to be a rather feeble and hesitant child-hero. But we should remember that Stephen is a still a child (11 or 12) in this novel, with a child's natural fears and qualms, and that it is no wonder that he becomes totally overwhelmed by the situation. <br />I enjoyed this novel very much. It may not be to everyone's liking, in that it does not make for easy straightforward reading. But &quot;Spies&quot; did make for a really affecting and compelling read. and if you're looking for something a little different from the same old thing, this should satisfy.	2002-04-10
1586846:US	52830980	R3GLDCXSBR4P4	0756400600	565076810	The Gates of Sleep (Elemental Masters, Book 2)	Books	3	12	13	N	N	a rehash of certain plot ideas but still enjoyable	&quot;Gates of Sleep&quot; had more of a fairy-tale feel to it than &quot;Serpent's Shadow;&quot; and while I did like this novel quite a bit (and really enjoyed the charming twist that Mercedes Lackey put on the Sleeping Beauty motif, esp since in Lackey's version it is Sleeping Beauty/Marina who has the final showdown with the Wicked Fairy Godmother/Arachane), I did not find this book to be quite as compelling as &quot;Serpent's Shadow.&quot; Part of the reason was that while Marina is intelligent and canny and likable, she seemed incredibly bland in comparison to Maya (the heroine of &quot;Serpent's Shadow). Another problem I had with &quot;Gates of Sleep&quot; was that the character of Arachne was just not 'fleshed' out enough -- why did she hate her family so much? Was it because she was born without any powers? Had her family treated her differently? Why did she marry so unsuitably? (and why was her husband considered unsuitable?) And how did she come by her dark powers? I wanted proper answers, and didn't find any. Afterall in &quot;Serpent's Shadow&quot; we know why the aunt carries out a virtual vendetta against her brother-in-law and her niece. And I was quite disappointed that Mercedes Lackey did not fill in the blanks (as it were) with &quot;Gates of Sleep.&quot; Another thing I couldn't figure out was why, given that Marina had been filled in the fact that there was a curse placed on her, no one saw fit to tell her that it was Arachne who cursed her? The omission seemed a little foolish to me.<br />Except for that, this book is a rather enjoyable read. Most of the characters (except for Arachne) were well 'fleshed' out, esp that of Marina's. And while (as another reviewer pointed out) there is really not that much variation in theme or plot-ideas between &quot;Serpent's Shadow&quot; and &quot;Gates of Sleep,&quot; this was still a rather fun read. The call for female suffrage is again visited (as it was in &quot;Serpent's Shadow) and I esp liked the socio-historical bits that dealt with plight of factory workers and the effects of lead poisoning. Will I read another elemental magic novel by Mercedes Lackey? Definitely. But I do hope that there is more of a variation in plotting next time.	2002-04-09
1587828:US	52830980	R1EWG0DD2ZEJIG	0312982623	200364767	Deadly Affairs (Francesca Cahill Romance Novels)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	mystery is better this time, but subplots still the same	The events that are chronicled in \\"Deadly Affairs\\" takes place a couple of days after \\"Deadly Pleasure,\\" and that is a shame -- that Brenda Joyce structured the novels in such a way so that the mysteries occur one on the heels of the other, because this does not allow for the Francesca Cahill's character (the heroine of this series) to mature or grow. Indeed, Miss Cahill remains the same clueless and impulsive young woman that we have all become quite familiar with (\\"Deadly Pleasure\\" & \\"Deadly Love\\"). This time however, the mystery in \\"Deadly Affairs\\" is more interesting; unfortunately however, Ms Joyce does not go very much into the 'whodunit' aspect of the novel. Instead, we're again treated to Francesca's obsession (there is no other word for it) for Rick Bragg (the new Police Commissioner of New York City), and her elder sister's (Lady Connie Montrose) decision to make her husband suffer for having had an affair. <br />Francesca's career as a detective is finally taking off -- she has been hired by Mrs. Lincoln Stuart to confirm her fears that he is having an affair. And in spite of the fact that Francesca has promised her parents (and Bragg) to give up investigating, Francesca takes on this case, believing that there can be little danger in so mundane a case. Unfortunately, she stumbles over the dead body of a young woman who has been brutally and ritualistically murdered. The murdered woman turns out to be friend of a seamstress she has dealings with, Maggie Kennedy, who begs Francesca to investigate her friend's death. Of course Francesca cannot deny Maggie. And soon, Francesca with an unwilling Bragg in tow, discovers that this current murder has an echo in a murder that took place months ago. Coincidence, or could it be that there is a serial killer on the loose? In spite of the danger, Francesca is determined to discover who the murderer is and to put a stop to his/her madness...<br />Where to begin with what irked? To begin with, we're told (over and overagain) that Francesca is an extremely intelligent young woman -- well perhaps she is, and perhaps what she's really short of is common sense. Because for a supposedly intelligent young lady, she definitely has a way of behaving foolishly. And of course there is the fact that we're not really treated to a real in-depth murder mystery, (the murders are merely a backdrop to the romantic and angst filled relationship between Francesca and Bragg) and the fact that Francesca Cahill is not so much a detective as someone who happens to fall over the solution of whatever puzzle is at hand.<br />Reading \\"Deadly Affairs\\" was a really emotionally draining feat. Francesca went the whole gamut from euphoria to depression depending on how her interaction with Bragg went, and how many reminders she had that he was married. The trouble with \\"Deadly Affairs\\" is that it doesn't really vary very much in theme or premise form \\"Deadly Pleasure.\\" The same old plot-lines (the Francesca's forbidden relationship with Bragg, and her strange one with his half-brother Calder; Connie's falling apart marriage; and Sarah's doomed engagement to Francesca's brother, Evan) are rehashed with nothing being really resolved. Also, I really wish that Brenda Joyce would inject a grain of common sense into Francesca's character. Francesca Cahill has proved to be a caring, brave and intrepid heroine, and I just wish that she was a little more sensible and canny as well, and a little bit less obsessed with Rick Bragg.	2002-04-08
1587987:US	52830980	R1LJ1ZUW8MXAWD	0425184307	857590873	Murder on Washington Square: A Gaslight Mystery	Books	5	43	43	N	N	couldn't put this book down	If you're looking for a good historical murder mystery, set in Victorian New York, that is full of atmosphere and ambiance, and that possesses a strong, intelligent, sensible and likable heroine, look no further. Any one of Victoria Thompson's excellent novels in the Gaslight Mystery series will do. I'm more of an Anglophile, and rather prefer historical mysteries set in England, but I'll admit that I'm hooked on Thompson's Gaslight series. Although the books deal more with the life of the underprivileged, rather than with the life of the decadent rich, all the novels so far have proved to be compelling and addicting reading. And this latest book in the series is every bit as interesting and intriguing a read.<br />Sarah Brandt (a midwife and the detecting heroine in this series) is approached by her neighbour's son, Nelson Ellsworth, for assistance in a delicate matter. Apparently Nelson's delicate and refined young mistress may be carrying his child. Nelson is just not sure, and because he believes Anna (his mistress) may not fully understand what's going on with her body, he wants Sarah to meet and advise Anna. The meeting however goes terribly wrong, with Anna becoming hysterical and accusing Sarah of being an abortionist. However, something about Anna makes Sarah wonder about her truthfulness, esp when she realises that Nelson is perfectly willing to marry Anna, and that it is Anna who is dragging her feet about the whole affair. The next day however brings news that Anna has been brutally murdered in Washington Square. The police zero in on Nelson as the most likely suspect, and suggest that he murdered her because she was about to blackmail him about her pregnancy. Sarah however believes that Nelson is innocent, and that there was something incredibly havey-cavey about Anna and her pregnancy. Determined to prove Nelson's innocence, Sarah inveigles Detective Frank Malloy to help her clear Nelson. Little do the pair anticipate what they will find however, and the depth of human malevolence and despair that they will uncover.<br />I really like this mystery series, and I enjoyed reading \\"Murder on Washington Square \\" immensely. The plot was not only an intriguing and fascinating one, but it also kept me guessing as to who Anna's murderer was. And Victoria Thompson did a wonderful job of pacing and structuring the novel so that everything unfolded smoothly and logically. I really liked the character of Sarah Brandt (she's probably my favourite female Victorian sleuth) -- she's intelligent, compassionate, brave and most of all NOT FOOLISH. I cannot recommend this series and \\"Murder on Washington Square\\" highly enough. All the books have proved to be tantalizing and fascinating reading, and \\"Murder on Washington Square\\" especially so.	2002-04-08
1590862:US	52830980	R3NBSSXSWYOYR8	0380978857	21652145	The Golden One	Books	4	10	10	N	N	enjoyable even if plot is somewhat predictable	This latest Amelia Peabody Emerson novel was more of an adventure book than it was a mystery novel. However, it was still an enjoyable read, even if it did follow along on predictable formulaic lines. <br />The Emersons and entourage have returned to Luxor for another season of 'digging,' where they learn that tomb thieves have been ransacking a newly excavated royal tomb. Of course Amelia, Emerson, Ramses and Nefret, immediately hunker down to discover who is behind these thefts and to put a stop to them, and discover that an enemy from a previous adventure (\\"The Lord of the Silent\\") may be involved in these felonious goings-on, and that he is bent on revenging himself against the Emersons... Halfway through this storyline however, the novel veers off into another direction, when officers from the British Military Intelligence ask Ramses to resume his espionage activities and to discover the fate of one of their operatives, Ismail Pasha (also known as Sethos, one time foe of Amelia's and Emerson's, and who also happens to be Emerson's half-brother), who seems to have disappeared. Normally, I'm not much of a fan of sudden plot departures that go really off tangent for no apparent reason. But I must say that I'm glad that Elizabeth Peters did introduce this subplot as it proved to be a highly entertaining one with some really humorous moments. <br />All in all, \\"The Golden One\\" was quite an entertaining read even if the storyline was not a very original one. It was nice to visit with the incredibly adventurous and eccentric Emersons again. And I liked that Jumana (a character from \\"Lord of the Silent\\") made an appearance again, even if she seems to have lost some of her edge and been reduced to hand wringing and light histrionics. (Perhaps her character will revert to type in the next Amelia Peabody adventure?) However, I would have to agree with the previous reviewer, Kathy Farrell, either borrow this book from the library or else wait for the paperback edition. Because while I DID ENJOY reading this book very much, there really is no earth-shatteringly compelling reason to go out and buy this expensive hardcover edition.	2002-04-06
1592308:US	52830980	R1GIXT2IJFN6KU	0312209258	524485057	The Cat Next Door	Books	4	1	1	N	N	not much of a mystery, but still a good read	I'm an avid Marian Babson fan, and cannot think of a single novel that she's written that I did not enjoy to some degree or another. Having admitted to that, I must own that while I enjoyed reading \\"The Cat Next Door,\\" this novel, unlike previous Babson books, was not that much of a mystery novel. It was not one of her lighthearted works either. Essentially, the plot is as follows: about a year ago, Claudia (wife of rising member of parliament, Kingsley) was found stabbed in her parent's garden. Standing over her with a knife in her hand, was her twin sister, Chloe Morton. Now, Chloe's trial is about to begin, and family members have descended from all corners of the world in order to give support to shell-shocked family. <br />Margot (cousin to Chloe and Claudia), a professional photographer, returns home to her childhood home, in order to lend support to the uncle and aunt who helped raise her (Chloe and Claudia's parents). Tired and depressed, she is appalled to find that her uncle and aunt have more or less fallen apart at the seams: her Aunt Milly has retreated into the world of Regency romance novels, and her Uncle Wilfred has taken to overeating. And then there is Claudia's teenage daughter, Lynette, who has barricaded herself in her grandparents's bedroom and refuses to leave... As the date of the trial draws near, the tense atmosphere in the house mounts, as Margot tries to make sense of what happened and of Chloe's refusal to cooperate with the police or her counsel (Chloe has refused to talk to anyone about Claudia's murder). Kingsley wants the family to pressure Chloe to plead guilty so that she will never have to face a trial, and so that Lynette will not have to testify. But Margot cannot help but wonder if Chloe is actually guilty of having killed Claudia, or if she is covering up for someone else?<br />\\"The Cat Next Door\\" is not really a murder mystery novel at all (there are no cunning plot twists or red herring suspects), but a study of the psychological study of how a slightly eccentric family copes with a crisis. The novel unfolded a little slowly but flowed effortlessly, thus making it a really easy read. I must admit however that the manner in which everything was finally resolved did beggar belief! For the Claudia's murderer to calmly admit all, esp when no one suspected this character of any wrongdoing was not very probable. I think it would have been more likely for this character to have carried on the course (s)he had decided on and let everyone else stew! However the book was a nice read, and if you're looking for something to curl up with before falling asleep, you can't really go wrong with this novel.	2002-04-05
1593455:US	52830980	R32V3A9WC513ZM	0821772376	490824392	The Ghost And Mrs. Wenthaven (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	an entertaining read	I think that there should be new subcategory for novels that are simply brimming with several plot devices -- the 'chock-full' category. &quot;The Ghost and Mrs. Wenthaven&quot; would fit right in into this category, as it can boast of possessing a subplot that deals with an abandoned baby that may have been fathered by a Wenthaven male (but which one?); a subplot dealing with a ghost of a dead pirate; a family feud between the Brooks-Wenthavens and the Duggans; a budding romance between a pair of star-crossed lovers; and the main plot that deals with the relationship between the widowed Cassie Wenthaven and her brother-in-law, the care-for-nothing gambler, Dylan Wenthaven. This is a well written and rather enjoyable novel, which I enjoyed very much. However there was one glaring omission that was never raised or dealt with. And that was the fact that marriage between Dylan and Cassie would not have been permissible (it was actually illegal, as a man could not marry his sister-in-law). Of course there probably were ways around such a law, but I really wondered that Maria Greene never raised the issue. It was a little disconcerting reading about (and liking) the blossoming romance between Cassie and Dylan, and never have them discuss the fact that it would take some ecclesiastical maneuvering for them to marry. This little 'flaw' kept distracting me form enjoying the novel completely, which was a shame, because this really was a first rate read.<br />When Cassie Wenthaven's gambling mad husband died, leaving nothing but debts behind him, she was rescued by her husband's grandfather, who allowed her to live at a depilated estate of Fairweather, rent free. Now however, the old man is dead, and he has bequeathed the estate to his other grandson, Dylan. It is expected that Cassie will, of course, leave the estate as soon as possible. But Cassie has nowhere to go (She had also invited two almost destitute spinster sisters to live with her. Where could the old women go, ifthey are all evicted from Fairweather?) Cassie has come up with a plan: to get Dylan (whom she remembers as being a younger copy of her feckless husband) to hire her as his steward, and to allow her to care for the estate, as he carries on with his dissolute way of life in London. Will Dylan be agreeable to such a plan?<br />When Dylan first sees his inheritance, he is dismayed. The house is falling apart, and the grounds could do with a lot of cutting and pruning. But he hasn't got the money to repair the estate. Surely the best course would be to sell Fairweather. But then he meets Cassie, and something about her makes him want to prove himself worthy of her esteem. But how is he to prove himself worthy of his new responsibilities (and of Cassie)? Add to that the complication of a baby left mysteriously at their doorstep (a baby with Wenthaven features and the family rattle), the sudden flare up of a centuries old family feud between the Wenthavens and the Duggans, sudden ghostly hauntings, and Dylan's friend's doomed romance with Duggan's daughter, and Dylan's life seems to have suddenly grown a lot more complicated then he can deal with! Will he be able to untangle all these knots and still manage to persuade Cassie to put her trust in him?<br />What I liked most about this novel, was that in spite of the myriad of subplots, Maria Greene never lost sight of the main storyline -- the romance between Cassie and Dylan. And I liked that she managed to project both characters points of view equally. We see not only the effort that Dylan makes to prove that he is capable of change, as well as his disappointment that Cassie will not trust in him more; and we also see things from Cassie's perspective -- her reluctance to trust another glib and charming man who is addicted to gambling. Though, I do wish that a little more of Cassie's life with Dylan's brother had been described, and how she came to marry him. This novel could have been a rather somber read full of angst, esp since both Cassie and Dylan have quite a few issues and a lot of pain to work through. But Ms Greene handled all of this in a light and deft manner, without trivialsing anything. And I thought that that was a rather masterful touch.<br />I like this book quite a bit. It was a lighthearted and fun read, and I rather enjoyed the romance that developed between Cassie and Dylan. But that entire probability as to whether or not Cassie and Dylan would have been allowed to marry (so easily anyway) really nagged at me. And I really wished that Maria Dylan had addressed that issue.	2002-04-04
1596430:US	52830980	RM9HI4EIY4BU8	0451206053	44054773	A Lord for Olivia (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	a riveting read	Because of the particular manner in which their father's will was worded as well as a deathbed promise made to their father, the Ormhill siblings (Olivia and Jason) discover that their fate and fortunes are irrevocably tied together -- unless Olivia marries and marries soon. Unfortunately, upon hearing the terms of the will, Olivia's fiance, Lord Corbright, breaks off their engagement, and marries someone else. Meanwhile, heartbroken at having been jilted, Olivia has eschewed all social life and has thrown herself into estate management instead. And being a young man ripe for adventure, this entire situation in unbearable for Jason, who chafes at being tied to the country. And just when he begins to fear that he may actually grow old and die of boredom, Jason meets Lord Edmund Debham.<br />Lord Edmund Debham has just only recently returned from the wars with the expectation of inheriting his mother's property. However, because of the debts that his mother had run up, and the unscrupulous actions of his elder halfbrother, Edmund finds himself penniless and with no where to go. A chance meeting with Jason at a country inn leads to a drunken wager, and several games of chance later, Edmund finds that he has pledged to marry Olivia. However, he makes a stipulation that they also reveal ALL to Olivia. (I liked that June Calvin ensured that all would be straight between Olivia and Edmund from the very start by making Edmund insist that Olivia know all about the wager. This saved the novel from descending into that tiresome loop where Edmund woos Olivia under false pretenses, and where Olivia only discovers the truth after she has fallen in love with him, thus getting her heart broken by his perfidy. A truly refreshing difference). Of course Olivia is incensed and humiliated with the entire set up, and refuses to have anything to do with Edmund. However, circumstances (and I'm not revealing what they are because that would spoil your enjoyment of this novel) see to it thatEdmund remains on the Ormhill estate for a while. The more time Olivia spends with Edmund, the more she begins to like him -- she even finds that she is quite susceptible to his good looks and charm. But can she afford to trust another charming man, after having had her heart bruised by Lord Corbright? And then Lord Corbright enters her life again, and begins wooing her in earnest. Jason and the other Ormhills are over the moon with joy. But Olivia is not so sanguine. Is Corbright wooing her because he still loves her? Or does he have some other reason for wanting to marry her? And what of her attraction to Edmund?<br />I liked this book very much. And as another reviewer her already pointed out, this is one novel that keeps you guessing till the very end as to what Olivia will do, and which man she would choose. Even though this is a romance novel and all is supposed to end happily, I was sometimes in doubt if this happy ending would actually materialize! However, while I did like the characters of Edmund, Olivia, Jason and the other Ormhill relatives, the behaviour of the Ormhills, at times made me blink. For example, in spite of Corbright's poor behavior towards Olivia, when he suddenly decides to woo Olivia (again), her relatives all but rub their hands in glee as they not so gently push her to spend more time with the man! This seemed a little perverse and made little sense to me -- I mean, this was the man who jilted Olivia a while back afterall!<br />All in all however, this book was a really engrossing read, and should not be missed! I liked the manner in which June Calvin developed Olivia's and Edmund's romance, and I thought the atmosphere of menace that prevaded the last quarter of the novel was excellently done too. \\"A Lord for Olivia\\" is the kind of romance novel that one can read and reread over  a preiod of time and never get bored. And it definitely deserves 5 stars.	2002-04-02
1599595:US	52830980	R25OGXT19NMY52	0451205480	756631278	Murder of a Sleeping Beauty (Scumble River Mysteries, Book 3)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	a fun read	There are moments in everyone's life when every mistake you've ever made either comes back to haunt you, or else conspires to ensure that you have a very bad couple of days. For Skye Dennison, the school psychologist for Scrumble River, the period covering the murder-investigation of Scrumble River High School beauty, Lorelei Ingels, proves to be exactly such a moment. Since returning home (reluctantly) after having been fired from her first job and being dumped by her rather obnoxious fiance, Skye has managed to find a way to fit in again in her small home town, and to live down her infamous high school valedictorian speech (in which she stated that all the denizens of Scrumble River had small mundane minds). It's not all good news however: her job is a hard and thankless one, where she seems to be doing the work of at least six people, and where she gets very little help or support from school administrators. Add to that the unpleasant fact that Skye has managed to alienate the affections of the two men she has some romantic feelings for, and you have some idea of what Skye's life is like right now!<br />As \\"Murder of a Sleeping Beauty\\" opens, Skye is summoned to the school gym by a hysterical teenager who claims that, \\"Sleeping Beauty is dead.\\" Inside the gym, Skye finds Lorelei Ingels (popular head cheerleader, Sleeping Beauty in the school's upcoming musical, and regular beauty pageant contestant) onstage seemingly asleep. Except of course that she's not breathing, and that she happens to be a lovely shade of grey-blue. It looks as if Lorelei may have over dosed on something. Afraid that the school may be blamed for Lorelei's death, Skye's godfather (who happens to be president of the school board) asks Skye to investigate. This, Skye is only all too willing to do, but investigating this murder will not be easy going, esp with the sheriff acting really hostile towards her (he's still angry at her for having betrayed his trust in a previous Scrumble River mystery, \\"Murder of a Sweet Old Lady\\"). But Skye is nothing if not determined to discover why Lorelei Ingels is dead; why the Ingels family is not cooperating with the police; and why Lorelei isn't even being mourned by her friends. <br />\\"Murder of a Sleeping Beauty\\" is a really fun read. Denise Swanson does a marvelous job of both imbuing the book with that small town atmospheric feel, and of maintaining a light tongue in cheek sarcasm with which she observes the general ineptness of the school administrators, as well as all the string pulling that goes on behind the scenes in small town politics. The Scrumble River mystery series is not a completely light hearted 'cozy' read, but it is an absorbing and compelling one. It is rather fast paced and is filled with character-types that are quirky and recognizable to all of us. I was well and truly hooked. All in all a really worthwhile read.	2002-03-30
1600147:US	52830980	RBHM6C6C313ZJ	0451206045	744536657	The Purloined Papers (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	an enjoyable but somber read	\\"The Purloined Papers\\" is another installation in the Seabrook saga, and this time the focal point of the novel is that of the complicated relationship between Chloe Fields and Captain Andrew Seabrook. Laura Seabrook's (also seen in \\"The Notorious Widow\\" & \\"The Rake and the Wallflower\\") crazed machinations to stop her brother's marriage to Martha Truitt (the daughter of a prosperous merchant), and the mysterious death of Chloe's estranged father also features into this interesting and compelling novel.<br />When Chloe Field's father (Sir Nigel Fields) lost his fortune at the gambling table, rather than allow him to marry her off so that he could pay off his debts, Chloe left home in order to find employment. Luckily for her, her childhood friend, William Seabrook, was in desperate need of someone competent to be a companion to his somewhat crazed and unlikeable sister, Laura. And while life with Laura has been no picnic, Chloe has managed to save quite a bit of money (mostly bribes from Laura's brothers-in-law so that she will not leave her post), so that her dream of being able to live peacefully in a small cottage one day has almost become a reality. And then two things happen that changes the course her life seems to be set on: her father dies suddenly and under suspicious circumstances; and Captain Andrew Seabrook, her childhood friend with whom she has been in love with for years, but with whom she parted badly, returns to Exeter. Now, Chloe must somehow not only cope with Laura's obnoxious shenanigans and the loss of a father with whom she never reconciled with, but also maintain a cool facade so that Andrew never learns that she is still in love with him...<br />Andrew has returned home in order to recover from a leg wound he sustained at Waterloo. A career soldier, he is weary of war and would dearly love to sell out, except that he isn't equipped to be anything else but a soldier. And if that's not depressing enough, watching Chole working as his nasty sister's companion is definitely enough to bring on a case of the megrims! And then there is also the guilt he feels for having almost seduced Chloe 11 years ago, and the horrid manner in which they parted. Now, however seeing Chloe everyday (esp since he is investigating her father's death), Andrew comes to the realisation that he has never stopped loving Chloe. But can he get Chloe to forgive him for past misdeeds, and to open her heart to him again?<br />\\"The Purloined Papers\\" was a truly engrossing read -- such a lot happens in this 200 odd page romance novel. And eventhough the romance subplot was a little marginalised in favour of exploring the relationships that other characters had with each other in this novel (not to mention the murder subplot), I didn't feel this to be a flaw at all. Andrew and Chloe have quite a lot to work out, and I liked that Allison Lane allowed for their relationship to develop slowly, giving them time to become close friends again, before broaching the romance that fairly simmers between them. Chloe and Andrew complement each other very well, and one cannot but help admiring Chloe for making a stab at independence, no matter how unpalatable the course. I'm not sure if there will be any more Seabrook novels, Ms Lane has managed to tie up everything neatly and satisfactorily (esp where nasty Laura is concerned). \\"The Purloined Papers\\" falls more into the 'dark' Regency category than the light hearted drawing room one, but it is an engrossing and compelling nonetheless. A truly enjoyable read!	2002-03-30
1601057:US	52830980	R1L4BL6M4V6839	0312282680	335750043	A Weekend at Blenheim: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	I was hooked in spite of my reservations	\\"Weekend at Blenheim\\" reminded me very much of the works by Henry James (without James's tedious prose) and Edith Wharton (without Wharton's wit and elegance). The basic plot premise -- an innocent young American caught up in the machinations of the rich and the powerful) will remind every one of James's and Wharton's works. And while I did enjoy \\"Weekend in Blenheim,\\" I have to own that it did unwind at a rather slow and somewhat deadened rate, and this sometimes made me skim the pages (esp the first few chapters), till I got to the more meatier bits<br />Through the good offices of his father-in-law, architect John Vanbrugh, has been commissioned by the Duchess of Marlborough (the American born Consuelo Vanderbilt) to redo her rooms. Vanbrugh is of course flattered and excited: this could be the commission that turns his career around completely. But the atmosphere at Blenheim is anything but conducive to brilliant redesigning ideas -- while the duchess is everything that is charming and gracious, the duke appears to be rude and abrasive. And Vanbrugh soon finds himself in the middle of a power struggle between the duke and duchess involving John Singer Sargents's missing sketch book, and a series of letters that Vanbrugh finds in the duchess's rooms that puts the entire legitimacy of the Marlborough house into question. And then one of the maid's is brutally murdered. Did her death have anything to do with the letters, missing sketch book and the power struggle going on between the duke and duchess? The duke tries to sweep the maid's murder under the carpet by throwing the blame on another servant. Vanbrugh is appalled, and does not at all buy into so pat a solution. And he is determined to discover who actually murdered the maid and why. Suddenly this commission instead of making Vanbrugh's career seems to have taken a rather deadly aspect instead.<br />While I am a bit of an anglophile, I'm not a blind fan either. And I've never particularly liked Winston Churchill in spite of his brilliant work during WWII. But I did find myself feeling a little leery about all the things that Morrisey attributes to the duke, duchess, Churchill, etc. Much of it bordered on the slanderous (esp when it touched on the murder and the tragedy that ensues). Another difficulty with this novel was that it was a rather hard to take Vanbrugh (our erstwhile hero) to heart. From almost from the first page, where he describes his unhappily pregnant wife in almost peevish tones, I found him to be a rather unsympathetic individual. This impression did not change very much in the ensuing chapters. Vanbrugh's wife, Margaret, however becomes more interesting a character as the book reaches it's climax. But certain bits of information about how much Margaret actually knows and understands and her motives for acting in a certain way, remain obscure to the very end, and left me feeling a little shortchanged. However, it spite of these few quirks, I must admit once the novel took off, I was hooked. The second half of the novel, from the murder of the unfortunate housemaid onwards was an engrossing and compelling read -- so atmospheric that you can actually feel the violence and anger that propels certain characters to act as they do.<br />In spite of certain reservations I had, I'd have to say that this novel is a must read. I was hooked not so much by the mystery of who killed the maid and why, but by the ambiance as well as the rather unlikeable characters and their actions and motivations.	2002-03-29
1601065:US	52830980	R2NPS7QWAYSL6N	0505524589	52974576	The Shadowing (Candleglow)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	a fun read in spite of certain shortcomings	I finished \\"The Shadowing\\" with mixed feelings. On the one hand this was not one of Ms Overfield's better works -- as a previous reviewer has already noted it seemed as if several plot-lines were allowed to fall by the wayside in favour of more explicit bedroom scenes. From the manner in which the novel started and progressed for the first few chapters, I expected either reincarnation or psychic empathy to figure prominently in the novel, thereby explaining Anne's intuitive feelings about the castle and the strange goings on within it. But this was never really explored, and I felt as if the novel suffered a little because of this. Another plotline that was also not satisfactorily developed was the one involving the magistrate, Mr. Beechton. Ms Overfield does provide us with a reason behind Beechton's antagonism towards the laird, Ruairdh MacCairn, but it is more of an afterthought and a tying up of loose ends, rather than an incorporating of the explanation more fully into the story. And again, I felt as if the novel suffered a little because of this. This novel didn't really unfold all that smoothly either, and it really took a while for the attempt-to-break-the-curse bit of the novel to kick into high gear. (Another detraction is that the character of Ruiardh MacCairn is never really developed properly, and all we ever 'see' of this character is that he is bad tempered and sex starved. Understandable perhaps, but it really made me feel as if he was not entirely worthy of someone like Anne.) Over and over again, Anne keeps asking Ruiardh to explain what's going on, but he keeps putting her off, preferring to bed her instead. I felt like screaming with exasperation! Perhaps Anne should have withheld her body until he told her everything. And yet this novel also possesses a very strong and empathic heroine in Anne Garthwicke. I liked this character so much that, truth to tell, I forgot much of the 'flaws' about \\"The Shadowing\\" and only remembered them when a friendasked if I thought she should buy the book. So all in all, I'd say that \\"The Shadowing\\" is a rather fun read. It has some shortcomings but the heroine, Anne Garthwicke, made me forget every single one of them.	2002-03-29
1608245:US	52830980	R10YH6SZ7DB9MF	0385496389	465871266	The White Crow (Beacon Hill Mysteries (Doubleday))	Books	4	4	4	N	N	a straight forward read but rich in ambience	I'm always torn whenever I read one of Cynthia Peale's Beacon Hill mysteries -- on the one hand I love the manner in which Ms Peale brings the Boston of the Victorian period to life with all it's prissiness and it's snobbish double standards. And I also like the manner in which she depicts all her characters, both secondary and primary -- you really get to see all the different facets of the different characters. But I also find myself ready to spit nails at the attitude of the men in these book towards the women. And here, much as the feminist in me wants for Caroline Ames (the charming and amiable heroine-detective of this series) to really administer a swift kick in the seat of the pants to her supercilious older brother, Addington (preferably so that he takes a fall down the stairs), I have to admire Ms Peale's accurate portrayal of the social mores of the period, and admire her courageous stance. It would be only all too easy to write about a sister and brother team that we modern readers would find more sympathetic and accessible. However Ms Peale has given us a detecting hero (Addington Ames) who is snobbish and priggish and a little narrow minded, as well as a detecting heroine (Caroline Ames) who even as she sometimes chafes at her brother's attitude towards her and all things modern, is still a product of her upbringing, and who is NOT one of the crusading Amazonian feminist that the Victorians feared so much.<br />Hoping to make 'contact' with their dead mother, Caroline Ames decides to secretly visit the medium, Mrs. Sidgwick (Caroline has to keep this visit a secret because she knows that her brother would disapprove and probably forbid her from attending the seance). The seance however turns out to be a disaster: not only does Caroline fail to make contact with her mother, but she also becomes a suspect when philanthropist Theophilus Clay is murdered while the seance is in session. As much to protect his sister from the police, as well as because an old friend of the family requests him to investigate the matter, skeptical Addington Ames finds himself delving into matters paranormal. And no one is more surprised than he when things take a distinctly dangerous turn when this current murder investigation suddenly leads him to back to another painful episode from his past, and an old enemy who feels that he has a score to settle with the Ameses...<br />While I did enjoy reading \\"The White Crow,\\" I must own that mystery-wise it was an incredibly straightforward read, and that the mystery plot did unfold at a rather sedate pace. Ms Peale seemed to pay more attention to the subplot dealing with the blossoming relationship between Caroline and the Ames's lodger, Dr. Mackenzie, which was something I didn't mind at all as I'm rather partial to Caroline, and welcomed any plot deviations that dealt with her. So, here's my opinion: read this book on a drizzling evening (this novel was meant for exactly that kind of weather) and enjoy it for it's rich and vivid imagery, and for it's charming heroine.	2002-03-23
1615441:US	52830980	R1D8KVO593VWCN	0312266898	211423311	Killing Cousins (Torie O'Shea Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	an engaging read	The reason why I'm quite addicted to this series is not because of the mystery at hand. Not that the mysteries in this series are boring! To the contrary, they are usually interesting ones, even if you sometimes wonder why no one else except Torie can ever solve these mysteries. No, the reason why I like this series is because of Tories' smart aleck asides and the wry humour with which Rett MacPherson writes these Torie O'Shea novels. <br />Torie O'Shea, a genealogist from the small town of New Kassell, Missouri, is still coping with a hormonal overload from having recently given birth to a baby boy, as well as having just seen her mother married off to New Kassell's sheriff, Colin Brooke (and her own private nemesis); when she's approached by the town's matriarch, Sylvia Pershing, to write a biography about Catherine Finch. Finch, a denizen of New Kassell was a popular jazz singer from '30s, and has recently passed away. Coincidentally, it turns out that the sheriff, who also happens to be a budding antique dealer, has bought the contents of Catherine's estate. Because of a time constraint the sheriff needs to sort out what he's bought right away. However the sheriff is about to leave for his honeymoon, and so he asks Torie to go through Catherine's effects and sort out the junk from the valuable for him. It's an opportunity that Torie cannot say no to, esp given that she's already agreed to write Catherine's biography.<br />Doing some basic research into Catherine's history Torie discovers that Catherine suffered a tragedy that she never recovered from -- her infant son was kidnapped from his cradle in 1938, and he was never found, dead or alive. It's a tragedy that resonates with Torie, and she's soon becomes immersed in trying to discover what happened to the Finch baby. And then a stranger is found dead in one of the abandoned houses in New Kassell, who turns out to be one of Catherine's relations. Could the man's presence have anything to do with the fact thatCatherine's estate is being sorted out? And could he have had information about the missing Finch heir? Not to worry: you just know that Torie, who cannot help but poke her nose into everything, will discover all!<br />Torie O'Shea is a rarity in the mystery novel world in that Rett MacPherson presents her to us warts and all. Torie is not perfect -- she frequently acts instinctively without thinking things through, and she is a busybody. She just has to know what's going on. The fact that Torie admits this basic fact about herself, allows us to empathise with, and to like her. As I noted before however, while the mysteries in this series are interesting and fun, they are rather straight forward. And after a while you have to wonder why only Torie has the imagination and the curiosity to get to the bottom of what's going on -- in this case what really happened to the Finch baby. But that is exactly what makes this series (and book) so readable: that Torie has the guts and determination to see things through to the bitter end. And that is why I will always be on the library waiting list for future Torie O'Shea books.	2002-03-18
1615875:US	52830980	ROY7451ZRXTJX	0312279981	616142422	The Devil in Bellminster: An Unlikely Mystery (Unlikely Heroes)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	an engrossing read	A lifetime ago (while I was supposed to be mugging for my 'O' level prelims) I became addicted to Victorian horror stories. These novellas didn't always deal with ghost stories, they sometimes dealt with the inability of ordinary 'good' people (esp during prosperous times) to deal with horrors of madness, malice, greed ... the baser qualities of the human condition. \\"The Devil of Bellminster\\" reminded me strongly of those novellas I used to read. David Holland did a truly brilliant job of evoking the feel and the ambiance of those books. And his choice of a hero, a tired vicar who has lost his faith, both in God and humanity, and who is nearing retirement, was a truly masterly choice. Because, Reverend Tuckworth, who happens to be good and kindly man, and who struggles daily with the guilt he feels over his loss of faith, adds further to the dark and somber tone of this novel.<br />It's 1833, and a madman seems to have made the quiet but prosperous town of Bellminster, his current killing ground. The town authorities, headed by Bellminster's most prosperous citizen, mill owner McWhirter, wants a quick arrest -- never mind if the unfortunate suspect is guilty of the murders or not! And when Detective Inspector Myles of Bow Street, arrests one of Tuckworth's simpleminded parishioners, Adam Black, on circumstantial evidence, Tuckworth finds himself drawn into the grisly investigation so as to protect Adam and to discover who the real murderer is before he kills again. But will Tuckworth be able to uncover new evidence that would save Adam from a town eager to be rid of it's current horror, and before the killer strikes again? <br />This book's greatest strengths are the pacing and Holland's characterizations of Reverend Tuckworth, and the London detective, Paul Myles. Myles, a hard and ruthless man, finds himself reluctantly drawn into Tuckworth's to discover the truth. And it is Myles's determination to catch the killer that fuels the quick pace at which the novel unfolds. These are the facets that makes this novel such smooth and riveting reading. The other characters, on the other hand, do suffer a bit from being a little superficial in depiction. But since they were merely padding for the story at hand, this was not too important a detraction. As for the murderer, while Holland does a really good job of depicting his madness, he remains a little of an enigma. And even at the end, while we finally do discover who the madman is, we're still left in the dark as to roots of his dementia. But perhaps it is a purely 20th century TV/Hollywood culture that has made us demand for everything to be explained away satisfactorily, and that by allowing the madman to remain an unexplained aberration, that makes \\"The Devil of Bellminster\\" a somewhat compelling read.	2002-03-18
1618886:US	52830980	RS1U9Y0JIQ7CF	0821772317	781755331	The Baron And The Bluestocking	Books	3	2	2	N	N	a less mature heroine would have made novel a 5 star read	Elizabeth Weston is the elder daughter of a scholarly gentleman, who together with her father, had spent many years in the Mediterranean studying the Second Punic War and retracing the steps of the Carthaginian Army. Upon her father's death, Elizabeth managed to publish a book detailing the work that they had done. The book brings Elizabeth some acclaim; but more importantly however, it also brings her to the attention of an extremely rich gentleman, who, when he dies leaves her a fortune. The gentleman's greedy relations (his sister-in-law, Mrs. Atwater, and her son) however are incensed; and resentful at being done out of a fortune, Mrs. Atwater storms the Weston household, insults Elizabeth and threatens to blacken Elizabeth's name in London society. <br />Initially, Elizabeth had had every intention to refuse the bequest; now however she decides (in a fit of anger and pique) to go to London with her family, and to try and establish herself in society, just to spite the Atwaters. Once there, Elizabeth quickly becomes quite fashionable and much sought after -- and she also finds herself steeped in a campaign to one up Mrs. Atwater socially. She also meets (finally) the head of the Atwater household, Julius, Lord Atwater, who turns out (to her surprise) to be a rather charming and intelligent man. However, in spite of Julius's claims of noninvolvement, Elizabeth is sure that he, like his aunt, is out to do her harm. What she doesn't realise is that Julius has become quite enamored with her. Will Julius be able to persuade the suspicious Miss Weston that his intentions are honourable? But what hope of success can he have when his own aunt has declared all out war on Elizabeth?<br />\\"The Baron and the Bluestocking\\" was a rather agreeable read and there is much to recommend about this novel: it is well written, and has some rather funny bits. I also liked Reed's lightly biting commentary on the social mores of the period (as seen through Elizabeth's eyes). But it would have been an even more enjoyable/probable  read (for me anyway) if Joy Reed had made Elizabeth a little younger and a lot less sensible. And that is because I was unable to reconcile the sensible and full of scruples Elizabeth from the first few chapters with the impulsive, uncertain and rather socially competitive Elizabeth in the subsequent chapters. And in spite of the fact that Mrs. Atwater probably did need to be taught a lesson, some of Elizabeth's behaviour smacked of pettiness and left a bad taste in my mouth. One expects such behaviour from villains, not heroines! And then there was her belief that Julius was out to harm her. A sensible and intelligent woman would have asked around about Julius, and would have discovered that Julius and his relatives are cut from different cloth. But not Elizabeth. In spite of the poor man's attempts to set her mind at rest, Elizabeth refuses to budge from her original impression of him. After a while, this got a little tiring, esp since Julius did nothing (not even a barbed sneer) to her.<br />\\"The Baron and the Bluestocking\\" is a charming comedy of manners, and I probably would have enjoyed a lot more if the heroine had been a little younger -- say 22 or 23. However, this is just an opinion I had -- you might not share my view about the heroine's age.	2002-03-15
1621481:US	52830980	R2Q4R7I7QJI4TS	0821770187	469855888	Shall We Dance?	Books	4	2	3	N	N	an enchanting read	\\"Shall We Dance?\\" carries on where \\"My Fair Quiggley\\" left off, and focuses on Josiah Elliot's efforts to uncover evidence of his pedigree that would make him eligible to ask for Lady Miranda Westley's hand in marriage. Added to this hunt is also Josiah's search for his missing nephews, as well as his attempts to discover what really became of his brother and the fortune that the Elliot family once possessed, and how it all ended up in the hands of the family's enemy. And since this is a romance novel by Judith Lansdowne, you can be sure that there will also be another romance subplot (in this case involving Miss Eleanor Feebes, a fledgling reformer, and the Earl of Blazingame) and a couple of animals (a cow named Susan, in particular). All in all, while this plethora of subplots does make for some entertaining reading, I must admit that it also added to quite a bit of confusion, as it was only after the first three chapters or so, that everything came together, and made sense. The novel became smooth reading after that, so if like me you were a little at sea after the first few chapters, take heart and stick it out -- the effort pays off.<br />Josiah Elliot wants to marry the woman he's desperately in love with, Lady Miranda Wesley. Unfortunately, she the daughter of a duke, so Josiah, who actually does possess some claim to aristocratic blood, must prove that he is worthy in order to ask for Miranda's hand in marriage (the fact that Miranda couldn't really care less what her family thinks or desires, somehow doesn't really dawn on our worthy hero, but never mind). This task however proves more difficult than it seems as Josiah cannot find the proof (a family bible with his lineage neatly mapped out) now that his brother has mysteriously died; add to that the disappearance of his two nephews and the fact that the family home and all it's contents seems to be in the hands of a childhood enemy, and Josiah's hopes of winning Miranda's brother's approval seems moot. And this is where the Earl of Blazingame comes into the picture. Seemingly a dilettante, Blazingame is actually a very intelligent young man who is very good at ferreting out bits of information and solving puzzles. Josiah's friend, Daxonberry (and Miranda's nephew) hopes that Blazingame will be able to help Josiah discover where his nephews could have disappeared to, and why Josiah's brother left things so badly settled. Will Josiah and Blazingame find what they are looking for? The game grows even more difficult, when the two men discover that there are those who would do anything to stop them to discovering what really happened to the Elliot family and fortune.<br />While the many subplots made this novel a more 'meaty' read, the novel really only came alive for me (anyway) when it dealt with the romance between Josiah and Miranda. Theirs is the kind of romance one usually hopes to read about -- deep and abiding and passionate as well. (And with none of those embarrassingly graphic sex scenes.) Compared to that, the romance between Blazingame and Eleanor comes across as being a little bland. And while the subplot dealing with the missing nephews and the loss of the Elliot home and fortune, was interesting, it also was a little too convoluted. On the plus side however, this subplot did yield the only other interesting character, apart from Josiah and Miranda that is -- the Duke of Berinwick. Wouldn't it be great to team Berinwick up with Celeste and Davis (two other intriguing characters from \\"The Mysterious Kiss\\")?<br />All in all, this was a fun read. I enjoyed reading this Regency romance novel that featured an older than usual hero and heroine. And I do hope that there will be more Regencies like this one in the future.	2002-03-13
1627093:US	52830980	R15RDJXZNG0KH2	034544003X	460838900	Southampton Row (Charlotte & Thomas Pitt Novels)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	great reading!!	This latest Thomas Pitt mystery is definitely a page turner. From the glittering drawing rooms where politics is discussed and policies decided, to the country side of Dartmoor, Anne Perry weaves a tale that is compelling and absorbing. And while I was disappointed that Charlotte Pitt and Gracie (the Pitts enterprising maid) did not figure prominently in this installment, I liked that Emily Radley (Charlotte's younger sister) had a bigger role in this novel -- she has been somewhat sidelined in the last few books, and I missed her character dreadfully.<br />In the previous Pitt mystery novel, \\"The Whitechapel Conspiracy\\" Pitt defeated the Inner Circle's plan to replace the English monarchy with a republic. This feat earned him the enmity of Charles Voisey, who was to be England's first president. Now, Voisey is running for the south Lambeth seat in Parliament on the Tory ticket. Meanwhile Pitt, who instead of being able to return to his previous position at Bow Street, has been seconded to Special Branch -- a department within the police force that deals primarily with the terrorist threats of the Irish Separatists. Now, Pitt's brief is to keep an eye on Voisey, and to see if Voisey is doing anything underhanded to ensure that he wins the election. But from what little Pitt can see, Voisey seems to be doing nothing nefarious in order to sway the voters -- save being a rather charismatic speaker. And then Pitt's superior commands him to investigate the murder of the clairvoyant, Maude Lamont. Pitt discovers that Voisey's Liberal opponent for the Lambeth seat is Aubrey Serracold and that Serracold's flamboyant and outspoken wife, Rose, was one of Lamont's clients. There is the fear that either Rose had something to do with Lamont's murder, or that Voisey will use this bit of information to discredit Serracold. Pitt is determined to bring the murderer of Maude Lamont to justice, no matter who he or she is. But the question he fears is if his superiors at Special Branchwill allow justice to be done, or if they too, like the Inner Circle, have their own agenda, and if they will do whatever necessary to break the Inner Circle, no matter the cost.<br />Against the backdrop of the political questions of the day -- Home Rule for the Irish, the fear that a disintegrating Empire could mean the fall of the British economy and the massive loss of jobs, and the demand for eight hour days -- the clash between the Tories and the Liberals; as well as the swirling human emotions of fear, ambition, grief and pain, Anne Perry has worked her magic again to produce a novel that is compelling as it is intriguing. (I really love the manner in which she makes all her characters real -- flawed yet tragically human. It's a no mean feat, and I've practically never really come acorss anyone else who can do this.) I didn't expect that the next Pitt mystery novel could top or equal \\"The Whitchapel Conspiracy.\\" I was wrong: \\"Southampton Row\\" is a moer than brilliant follow up to \\"The Whitechapel Conspiracy.\\"	2002-03-08
1627476:US	52830980	R1N3O0LM1GYF8W	0727857444	286239353	The Return	Books	4	2	2	N	N	an engrossing read	This latest DCI Hennessey & DS Yellich murder mystery reads more like an episode from 'Prime Suspect' or some similar TV police drama -- within the first few chapters the grisly find of a long buried body is found with evidence pointing to the fact that a murder was carried out and then hidden away; and we're also introduced to one of the people who participated in the disposal of the body. So, with practically no suspense and surprises in store for the reader, why would \\"The Return\\" be a read worth recommending? Because Peter Turnbull does a wonderful job of applying a different kind of suspense -- the question of whether or not Hennessey and Yellich will be able to come up with enough evidence to secure an arrest, or if the murderer(s) of the unfortunate Norris Smith will get away with murder all over again? The question as to whether or not Hennessey and Yellich would succeed kept me glued to the pages until I finished the novel, and it was well worth the effort. <br />Going into a private wood one summer's day, a treasure hunter makes a grisly find: a long buried skeleton. The skeleton happens to be that of a law student, Norris Smith, who went missing almost three decades ago. Evidence from the wound to the skull, points to murder (even if the quietly buried body did not already suggest such a thing). But having established the victim's identity and that he was murdered, Hennessey and Yellich's investigation hits a brick wall. In the meantime, Margaret Smith, a lay magistrate (and a fellow student of Smith's), recovers a suppressed memory that suggests that she participated in the disposal of Smith's body. A law abiding soul, she's appalled at what she now remembers of that horrific day, and wastes no time in contacting her fellow coconspirators, urging that they all come forward as it is the right thing to do. (All info from the first chapter.) Will Margaret's confederates heed her call to come clean, or will they, deciding that they do not share Margaret's moral dilemma, and opt for a more drastic solution to their problem instead?<BR> <BR>\\"The Return\\" was an incredibly suspenseful read. With each succeeding chapter, I really began to wonder if Hennessey and Yellich would be able to come up with the evidence to secure a conviction against Smith's murderer(s), or if justice, would again be perverted. Turnbull maintains this air of tension and suspense throughout, without ever flagging. He also does a wonderful job of developing the various characters -- esp the murderer's and the victim's -- involved in this tragedy. \\"The Return\\" is a truly engrossing read, and is wonderful example of how a good mystery writer can keep you interested even when practically everything is revealed in the first chapter, and there are no sudden twists or new revelations to the plot. A truly great read.	2002-03-08
1628197:US	52830980	RXJ0S7L10KWSF	082177123X	643047433	The Wrong Mr. Wright (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	heroine's behavior halfway through the novel made no sense	As a rule, I usually like Regency novels by Patricia Bray because of the care she takes to develop the both the primary and secondary characters in her novels, the budding romance/relationship between the hero and the heroine, and because she almost never reverts to 21st century language colloquialisms. True, her plots are usually a rather straightforward read, with very few twists in plot-lines. However, her books are also so well written, that this small lack is seldom really felt by the reader. &quot;The Wrong Mr. Wright&quot; falls into the usual mold of a Patricia Bray Regency romance; and it is a well written, engrossing (when it deals with the relationship between Diana and Stephen) and enjoyable read. However, I was surprised to find that Bray had Diana behaving in a manner, in the latter half of the book anyway, that was not at all consistent with her character!<br />Stephen Wright, Viscount of Endicott, is beginning to enjoy the peace and quiet of life without his troublesome younger half-brother, George, when he receives some rather unwelcome news. It seems that just before George left England, he had found time to seriously compromise a young lady, who has since left London in disgrace. Stephen is appalled. He has spent much of his adulthood pulling George out of scrapes and paying his bills and debts. But this latest stunt beats all. Being an honourable man, Stephen immediately makes for the young lady's home in Kent in order to offer her his hand in marriage. He is quite surprised then when Diana Somerville (the young lady in question) refuses his offer of marriage. Diana has no desire to be married at this point, and certainly not to the brother of the man who had so seriously compromised her reputation. However, both Stephen and her parents convince her to agree to a sham engagement, if only to restore her reputation (and that of her family's), with the stipulation that Diana be allowed to cry off the engagement after a suitable period of time. And so in no time at all, Diana finds herself back in London, this time as the fiance of the Viscount of Endicott. And while she never expected to find herself engaged to so cautious and reserved a gentleman as Stephen Wright, Diana begins to appreciate his many sterling qualities -- his dependability and his honour in particular. And then George returns to London. Will George's return mean trouble for Stephen and Diana? Stephen cannot help but worry about what George's next move will be even as he faces the fact that he has fallen in love with the spirited Diana and would like very much to make their sham betrothal real.<br />And all in all, &quot;The Wrong Mr. Wright&quot; was a really enjoyable read -- especially when it the novel was dwelling on the developing relationship between Stephen and Diana. Bray does a really good job of allowing us to see that these two are meant for each other, and bringing their 'real' characters to the fore. The thing I didn't get however, was why after having presented Diana as an extremely intelligent and astute young woman, Patricia Bray would make her heroine suddenly susceptible to George's machinations? It is difficult to be more explicit in my criticism without giving too much of the plot away. However, take my word for it, Diana's decision to listen to George would not at all be keeping with her character, esp given what she had previously suffered at his hands earlier in the book. And this incongruity niggled at me so much that it quite distracted me from totally enjoying the novel. Which was a shame, because incongruity aside, this was an enjoyable read.	2002-03-07
1629197:US	52830980	R38BA6ZG5ECAO8	0312977689	719562974	Deadly Pleasure: A Francesca Cahill Novel (Francesca Cahill Romance Novels)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	subplots and minor characters were more interesting	This is a novel that works if you're a fan of Brenda Joyce's and the characters that she creates. If you liked the first book in this series, \\"Deadly Love,\\" and the heroine, Francesca Cahill, and are incredibly curious as to what's going on in her family, and just how smoothly her romance with New York City's new police commissioner, Rick Bragg, is going than \\"Deadly Pleasure\\" will be an enjoyable and engrossing read. If however, you are a hard-core mystery fan, this novel may be a bit of a letdown, as this novel (unlike \\"Deadly Love\\") pays more attention to the characters and the various secondary subplots than it does to the murder mystery at hand. Subplots like that involving Francesca's elder sister, Connie, and the crisis that her marriage is currently facing; and the doomed from the start engagement involving Francesca's gambling addicted brother, Evan, and his plain but extremely talented fiance, Sarah; and subplots like that of Francesca's fraught with stumbling blocks romance with police commissioner Rick Bragg, and Bragg's difficult and acrimonious relationship with his half-brother, Calder Hart... The subplot dealing with who murdered retired businessman Paul Randall, and why was sometines in danger of being totally hijacked by the other 'non-mystery' subplots!<br />I'll admit I was also disappointed by the manner in which Brenda Joyce depicted Francesca as a detective. Francesca not so much discovers clues and arrives at deductions, as falls from one embarrassing situation into another. And almost with every \\"cute\\" situation she found herself in, Bragg was at hand to discover her -- whether it was eavesdropping behind the door, or under a bed -- thus adding to the 'erotic' quota of the book, I suppose. Also, given that Francesca was presented as an intelligent and astute young woman (in \\"Deadly Love\\" at least), she seemed to have picked up the alarming habit of blurting out what ever was on her mind at the moment like a bubbleheaded little twit! Discretion seems to be a quality that she has decided to do without!<br />I can only hope that with the next book in this series, Francesca grows and becomes again the young woman she was at the beginning of \\"Deadly Love.\\".	2002-03-07
1629611:US	52830980	R167W1FIST12I4	0451205529	171763419	Fortune's Lady (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a little of a somber read, but  a compelling nonetheless	Although most of \\"Fortune's Lady\\" takes place during the London Season, this is not a light hearted drawing room comedy of manners. Rather, this novel is mostly about two lonely people who discover that they have a lot more in common than their ever thought probable, and how this shared bond of unhappiness, loneliness and restlessness, leads to the blossoming of a deep and enduring love.<br />Neither Gareth de Vere, sixth Marquess of Harwood (also known as the Bachelor Marquess) nor Lady Althea Beauchamp, the only child of the Duke and Duchess of Clarendon (also known as the Ice Princess) believe that they ever could have anything in common with each other. And indeed, at first sight, they each take the other into great dislike (even as they are both physically drawn to each other): Gareth thinks that Althea is another cold hearted and demanding beauty much like his mother, while Althea thinks that Gareth is just too arrogant for words. However, because of Gareth's marriage-minded mother, the two meet and get to know each other. And both Gareth and Althea are struck by the similarities of their situations: both are children who have never known parental affection, they both abhor the social and hectic London scene, and both are loath to marry. As the Season progresses, so too does their friendship, as both Gareth and Althea discover how much in tune their minds and desires are with each other. Could it possibly be that the Ice Princess and the Bachelor Marquess are fated to make a match of it with each other?<br />\\"Fortune's Lady\\" is a bit of a 'muted' read. The chemistry between Gareth and Althea is a little subdued because, while both characters do not deny their attraction for each other, they spend much of the time denying the depth of their feelings. However, while the romance aspect is a little subdued this novel is by no means a dull read either. This novel is refreshingly different in that it deals realistically with how a young woman who has no desire to partake in the fashionable London scene at all, but who has very little say in how she my lead her life, may feel. One of the novel's greatest strenghts is 'seeing' Althea's real persona peek through the stiff facade she has erected. And reading along as she gradually comes into her own made for some really satisfying reading indeed. \\"Fortune's Lady\\" may be a little of a somber read, but it definitely is a compelling one nonetheless.	2002-03-06
1632001:US	52830980	RC49TNUTCYZ45	0451205502	713735579	Playing With Fire (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	villainess steals the show!	\\"Playing with Fire\\" is an incredibly enjoyable read that is brimming with all kinds of plot devices from Egyptology to magic, to two incredibly intelligent cats, incriminating letters, a missing heir and a blossoming romance between the poor relation (the heroine, Tansy) and a dashing naval officer (the hero, Martin Ballard). But what makes this novel all the more noteworthy is that the authour has not only managed to control all these plot devices in a deft manner, so that we're never overwhelmed, but she has also managed to keep things light and entertaining. And this, is no mean feat!<br />Rich, beautiful and incredibly spoilt Amanda Richardson, is on her way back to England in order to marry Randal Fenworth, the Earl of Sanderby. Amanda is also being accompanied by her plain and sweet natured cousin, Tansy, who is also (unfortunately) poor as a church mouse, and who is often the butt of Amanda's cruel jibes and tantrums. The journey back to England for the two young ladies however is anything but smooth: first their ship flounders and is wrecked, then they are kidnapped by pirates, and only narrowly escape being captured by the French before they are rescued by a dashing naval officer, Martin Ballard. Tansy falls for Martin almost as soon as she claps eyes on him, but Martin only seems to have eyes for Amanda. And when Amanda discovers that Tansy is quite smitten with the naval officer, she spitefully sets out to win Martin's regard. Will Martin fall under Amanda's spell? Or will he see past the veneer of beauty to the cold and callous heart that lies beneath? And what of Tansy's quiet regard for him?<br />I've only outlined the subplot dealing with Tansy's and Martin's rocky path towards happiness -- there are also two other subplots that are as interesting and as compelling, and they deal with an incriminating letter that could affect Amanda's ambition to be the reigning London belle, and another dealing with Egyptian artifacts and a magical piece of papyrus.And all in all, this was an incredibly fun read. The plot unfolded smoothly and briskly, and the characters were realistically and well depicted. However, I'll admit that this novel's greatest strength (for me anyway) was the novel's villainess, Amanda. Spoilt, manipulative, self-centered and vicious though she was, the novel only really came alive when she was 'on the scene.' Which was a little disconcerting for me as I usually prefer romance novels with heroines like Tansy. But in this instance, Tansy was completely upstaged by Amanda, and this was actually a good thing, because otherwise this novel may have ended being a little bit of a bland read.	2002-03-05
1634335:US	52830980	R1FSFTHACZUYDG	0821771019	444566478	The Mistress Thief (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	a fun read in spite of exasperating hero	&quot;The Mistress Thief&quot; possesses one big plot with two very closely intertwining subplots, so much so that at times I felt almost overwhelmed by how much was going on, and at the breakneck speed at which the events were all unfolding. However, the novel did make for absorbing reading, so that even though the urge to break something on the &quot;hero's&quot; -- Ranson Baldwin, the Earl of Weston -- head, grew with each succeeding chapter, I did enjoy this novel immensely.<br />Here's the outline of the novel: Lavinia Peyton is devoted to rescuing women who, because of circumstances beyond their control, have been forced to become prostitutes. However, she's really ardent about liberating the Earl of Weston's mistresses in particular from under his nose. Lavinia believes that the earl's casual and careless treatment of her beloved elder sister, Barbara, is the reason why Barbara has fled England, and is currently living in Europe. So, mostly out of revenge, Lavinia has whisked the earl's mistresses out of London, into hiding. What Lavinia doesn't know is that the earl is currently working with the Home Office in trying put a stop to a white slavery ring. For quite a while now, up-market courtesans having been disappearing from the London scene, and no one can find a trace of them anywhere. The earl has a suspect in mind; but in order to inveigle his way into this man's confidence, the earl needs to have a mistress. What to do when his mistresses, one by one, start disappearing?<br />In the meantime, Lavinia and the earl meet during one of the fashionable London dos, and both are at once attracted to and taken with each other. However, Lavinia cannot rid her mind of the earl's treacherous behaviour to her sister; while the earl is intrigued by Lavinia's beauty and wit. She also seems to alternately blow hot and cold with him -- one minute being really friendly and open, and the next being cold and cutting. Sensing that Lavinia is the ONE, he wishes that he could tell everything, esp since he suspects that it is his reputation for cutting a swathe amongst the courtesans that has made Lavinia so cold towards him. And then a crisis develops and Lavinia turns to the earl for help. Unfortunately he is unable to help her because doing so would jeopardize his investigations. He thinks that once everything is over, he can placate Lavinia with the truth. But will Lavinia be able to forgive him everything, esp not trusting her with the truth?<br />The plot of this Regency is a rather engrossing and intriguing one. And Alana Clayton did a wonderful job in developing the subplots and tying them all together, so that the novel was a lot 'meatier' that Regencies from Zebra usually are. My only problem with &quot;The Mistress Thief&quot; lay more with the character of the earl. I just couldn't stomach the his supreme confidence that he could win back Lavinia's approval and esteem by waiting to explain all only after his job with the Home Office was over. It never seemed to occur to him that a young woman who is as intelligent and as capable as Lavinia would prefer to be trusted with the truth before the fact, and may actually resent not being fully trusted. As for Lavinia, while her scheme to pay the earl back for his wrongs seems a little harebrained and demented, the courage, determination and intelligence she displays throughout the book (especially in the later half when the plot picks up), more than compensates for her early dementia.<br />Reservations about the earl aside, however, &quot;The Mistress Thief&quot; is an incredibly absorbing plot-driven novel, that many are bound to enjoy.	2002-03-03
1635134:US	52830980	RUANA0POJ3BS5	0385335903	562884361	Splintered Bones	Books	4	4	6	N	N	a fun read	Of the three Sarah Booth Delaney mystery novels, \\"Splintered Bones\\" is hands down my favourite book in the series. Perhaps it is because I really liked the plot of this novel, or because by now, the recurring characters in this series having taken on a life and endearing traits of their own, but I have no problem with recommending this book as a fun and engrossing read.<br />Sarah Booth Delaney (half owner of the Delaney Detective Agency) is in the middle of planting a new herb garden when she receives news that an old school friend, Lee McBride, has confessed to killing her unpleasant and violent husband, Kemper. Lee enlists Sarah's help by asking her to dig into Kemper's past, in order to find evidence against him that would bolster her claim that Kemper deserved killing. That, to Sarah's dismay is Lee's grand plan: to claim that Kemper derserved killing because of his violence against her. Almost from the very first however, Sarah suspects that Lee is lying, and that she covering something or for someone. Lee's story has too many loopholes for Sarah's peace of mind. But whom is Lee protecting and why? Sarah is firmly resolved to helping Lee beat this murder rap, in spite of Lee's wishes. And with the help of her socialite friend Tinkie ( and the other half owner of the Delaney Detective Agency), and Cece Dee Falcon, the society page editor of The Zinnia Dispatch, Sarah has every hope in succeeding. But the evidence that these women come across seems to implicate Lee more than ever. Exactly what kind of game is Lee playing?<br />This is one mystery novel that will really keep you guessing about who-did-what-and-why to the very end. There are just a host of suspects and motives! From Lee; to Lee's troubled daughter, Kip; to the shady characters in Kemper's past... There were quite a few twist and turns to \\"Splintered Bones,\\" and before I knew it, I had spent have the night following every snarl until I had finished the book! I enjoyed reading \\"Splintered Bones\\" very much. Although, I'll admit that I found Jitty (Sarah's tame family ghost)'s contant nagging at Sarah to hurry up and get pregnant, a little irritating after a while. These interludes with Jitty, amusing at times though they were, did interfere with the smooth flow of the mystery storyline. And that was a shame. On the other hand, I thought that Carolyn Haines did a wonderful job of juggling all the different suspects and motives, without losing steam, thus making this a really engrossing and absorbing read.	2002-03-02
1635211:US	52830980	R2XZ6E3XBTS8LN	0451205618	892689337	The Banished Bride (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	a wonderful and satisfying read	At first glance the premise for this Regency romance seems incredibly far-fetched. How on earth could a husband and wife, after many years of separation, not recognise each other (never mind not being familiar with each other's names) when they finally meet? Andrea Pickens, however, has written a really engrossing and enjoyable novel using exactly this plot premise, and amazingly enough, this premise becomes both probable and completely believable under her skilled hands.<br />The novel opens with a scene at a gambling house, where the fathers of the hero and heroine are deep at play. The Earl of Woodbridge has been steadily losing to Baron Trumbull. In order to clear his debts, the earl offers his 19 year old son, James Hadley Alexander Fenimore, as a husband for Trumbull's troublesome 14 year old daughter, Elizabeth Jane Aurora. Eager to be rid of his daughter (whom we gather is a budding feminist), Trumbull agrees. On the day of the wedding, young Alexander turns up very drunk and dressed in a uniform, while Aurora is dressed from head to foot is a thick wedding veil -- so that the couple don't actually see each other at all. Wedding over, Alex hands his bride over to his father and leaves for India. Thirteen years pass, Alex is happy with his career in the army, while Aurora has been living quietly in the country (having forsaken both the Fenimore household and name) under the name of Aurora Sprague (her maternal grandmother's name). She's also made a name for herself for running The Sprague Agency For Distressed Females. The agency does everything from spiriting abused wives away from their abusers to providing information to women about their spouses, business partners, etc. And it is because of her latest errand to spirit an abused wife across the Border that Aurora's path crosses with Alex's again.<br />The death of his father and both his elder brothers has made Alex the new Earl of Woodbridge; and as such, he must now sell out of the army and return to civilian life. This he is loath to do; however a request from Wellington to ferret out a rather dangerous female spy who is operating in England, sweetens the pot somewhat. Alex begins his search in earnest, and believing that the lone woman traveling in her own personal coach is the spy he is after, he forces his way in Aurora's coach and arrests her. Aurora is incensed; and too late, Alex realises that he has made a mistake. But before he can undo his error, one of the spy's paid assassins is on their trail; and now Alex must keep Aurora at his side for her own protection as much as because he feels deeply attracted to her. Danger aside, Alex realises that Mrs. Sprague is not someone with whom he can dally carelessly with, mostly because, notwithstanding her sharp tongue, Alex senses that Aurora is someone who has been badly hurt by the men in her life, her absent husband especially. What would happen if Aurora discover that he has (like her own husband) abandoned his own wife? As for Aurora, she never thought that she would ever succumb to the dubious charms of any man, and yet she is becoming quite dimwitted because of a pair of startling blue eyes! Could Major Woodmore (Alex is also traveling under an assumed name) really be very different from most men? And what happens when Alex and Aurora discover the other's real identity?<br />Exciting though the hunt for the spy was, the reason why I fairly 'ate' this book was to get to the part where Alex and Aurora discover each other's real identity. I liked the manner in which Andrea Pickens handled that plot development from that point on until the happy denouement very much -- she didn't drop the ball or the pace, nor did she 'betray' the characters by having Alex or Auroroa behave in a manner that was contrary to expectations. And the subplots dealing with the spy chase and the developing romance between Aurora and Alex was splendidly done as well.  \\"The Banished Bride\\" is a grand read. The plot unfolded smoothly andat a fast pace. And the characters of Aurora and Alex (as well as the minor characters of Robbie, Aurora's governess, the gambling fathers, and Jack, another English spy) were sketched out brilliantly and realistically as well. All in all, \\"The Banished Bride\\" is a well written grown-up romance, and one of the better Regencies I've read so far.	2002-03-02
1639408:US	52830980	R3F1S13B2FKMIE	0553801724	467944726	To Kiss a Spy	Books	5	13	13	N	N	a well written historical romance	What I really liked about \\"To Kiss A Spy\\" was that Jane Feather took such great care to get the feel of this turbulent period in English history right. She accurately portrays the political jockeying for power and the international intrigue that was going on behind the scenes even as the young boy king, Edward VI, lay dying; and how ordinary people, who had very little interest in political power got sucked into the dangerous game of chance that powerful land barons were playing in the early 16th century. Of course the fact that this was also a romance novel that featured a determined and intelligent heroine, and an enigmatic and intriguing hero, helped make this historical romance novel a truly marvelous read as well!<br />The novel opens with Lady Pen Bryanston, the eldest daughter of Lady Guinevere Mallory (from \\"The Widow's Kiss\\") valiantly trying to give birth. She is a recent widow (her husband had died of a mysterious illness). But through all the pain of childbirth, and even though she is heavily drugged, she feels herself give birth to a life child; so that she's quite horrified when she is told by her mother-in-law, a truly evil woman, that she had given birth to a son but that it was stillborn. Because of this, Pen's husband's lands and title pass on to his weak younger brother who is completely ruled by his mother. The novel than fast forwards a couple of years. Pen is now a lady-in-waiting to Princess Mary (the daughter of Henry VIII and Catherine of Aragon), but she has never given up hope that her son is still alive and that she will find him. In the meantime, the young king is dying, and it looks as if Princess Mary will be next in line for the English throne. However, Mary is Catholic, and the religion of England is fervently Protestant. The Duke of Northumberland, John Dudley, has a bold plan in mind keep England Protestant (and to maintain his hold on the throne) involving the Duke of Suffolk's eldest daughter, Jane Grey, who is a Tudor by blood as well as an ardent Protestant. And this is where Owen d'Arcy, the hero of this novel enters the picture. A Frenchman, Owen is in the pay of the Holy Roman Emperor, who also happens to be Princess Mary's uncle, and he fears for his niece's future. Owen is sent to England in order to infiltrate the English court. The plan is for Owen to seduce Lady Pen Bryanston, and to get her to spy on the Princess for them -- talk about a plan full of loopholes! Pen however turns the tables on Owen: used to being able to seduce women with a few charming words and smiles, he is stunned when Pen seems to be impervious to his charms. However, Owen soon finds a way to get to Pen, by agreeing to help discover, once and for all, if Pen's child had indeed died at childbirth, or if the Dowager Countess of Bryanston had something to do with the child's disappearance. In exchange for his help, Pen agrees to spy on the Princess for Owen. However this simple contract soon becomes complicated by the growing attraction that Pen and Owen feel for each other, and by the reappearance on Pen's stepbrother, Robin, who is an agent of Northumberland's and who warns Pen to be on her guard against Owen, a man who has a dark past involving his own wife and children. What is Pen to do? Whom is she to believe? Instinctively, Pen doesn't believe Robin's claims, but surely her beloved stepbrother would not lie to her? Things become especially tense when it becomes all too obvious that the king is not long for this earth. With time running out, Pen and Owen must work their way through mistrust in order to successfully achieve their different goals. But can they do so?<br />My advice is to either buy this book at once (if you can afford it) or else reserve a copy at your local library, for \\"To Kiss A Spy\\" is a romance novel not to be missed. The romance that develops between Pen and Owen is electric and memorable, and refreshingly grown-up! And the plot is not one to be sneezed at either! And I liked the manner in which Feather used historical actuality as a backdrop to this fictional romance -- making this novel more substantial and interesting a read. All the characters were nicely developed (esp Pen, who possessed all the intelligence and determination and courage that every romance reader hopes the heroine would), and the plot unfolded at a breakneck pace 'that made' me devour this novel in one setting. Another thing in this novel's favour is that in spite of the many diverse subplots -- the political intirigue, the hunt for Pen's child, and the developing romance between Pen and Owen -- nothing gets sidelined. Truly a fun read.	2002-02-27
1645673:US	52830980	R14PDMTB7YT7IE	0821771051	120006352	A Much Compromised Lady (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	an engrossing read	\\"A Much Compromised Lady\\" is an extremely well written romance novel, that boasts of an interesting storyline and characters that engaged and held my interest. And while I'm more of a fan of Shannon Donelly's Regencies that are of the drawing room variety -- \\"A Compromising Situation,\\" \\"A Dangerous Compromise\\" and \\"Under the Kissing Bough\\" -- I must admit that I rather did enjoy this romance novel. The story flowed evenly and at a brisk pace, and I finished the novel before I even realised it! However, I'll own that I did not care for the 'hero' of this piece very much -- Simon Winters, Lord St. Albans was a little too proud, autocratic and domineering for my taste. Fortunately, the heroine, Glynis Chatwin matched him in her short temperedness, hauteur, her own sense of self worth, and in her refusal to allow him to intimate her too much. Lord St. Albans's private hope that Glynis's claims to the Nevins name would prove to be a pipe dream, while refreshingly honest and probably accurate, also turned my stomach a little. Somehow, I found St. Albans to be a little short on charisma; and his arrogant and autocratic manner just made me feel bilious. However, I must applaud Ms Donnelly for her accurate and on the mark portrayal of this arrogant and autocratic character. For me though, the real 'hero' of this novel was Glynis's cousin, Bryn Dawes, who helps his cousins prove their claim, even though his help will cost him his inheritance. (I'm old fashioned: I prefer that my heroes be kind and honest and honourable instead of 'mad, bad and dangerous to know'). And I do hope that Ms Donnelly writes a book that features Bryn as the hero.<br />On the whole though, \\"A Much Compromised Lady\\" is a read that should not be missed, as it more than lives up to its promise of adventure, intrigue and romance!	2002-02-22
1649159:US	52830980	RSKXVBUXVOHVH	0385336004	587637152	Dialogues of the Dead	Books	3	2	5	N	N	doesn't quite measure up to previous mysteries	Unfortunately, I find myself agreeing with the reviewers who were disappointed with this latest Dalziel & Pascoe mystery. To begin with, if I read a Dalziel & Pascoe mystery novel, I want to read about this detecting pair, not a junior detective constable that goes by the nickname of \\"Hat\\" and who is, unfortunately, also rather short on charisma -- esp when compared to Dalziel. And while I thought that this mystery novel was based on a really clever plot premise, and while I really enjoyed the word games, like another reviewer, I figured out really early on who the murderer was. And reading along, \\"seeing\\" all the mistakes and misapprehensions that the police detectives make was not quite so much fun at all. Especially since unlike previous mysteries in this series the entire \\"will-they-or-won't-they-figure-things-out-in-time\\" element was completely absent (for me anyway). I also thought that the last chapter, that was written a la Bernard Shaw (reminiscent of the Don Juan in Hell scene ), was a real cop out (I won't go into this so that other readers can still enjoy this mystery novel). <br />Of course it is true that there are a lot of things to appreciate about \\"Dialogues of the Dead or Paronomania!\\" -- to begin with, the plot premise is a really clever one, and the creation of the two librarian characters (Rye Ponoma and Dick Dee) was absolutely brilliant. And the wry tone that coloured this mystery novel made this a rather fun read. But the manner in which the plot unfolded and the focus on \\"Hat\\" was, for me anyway, off the mark, and left me feeling somewhat shortchanged.	2002-02-19
1654493:US	52830980	R22EUA6PZMMFV2	0451205359	822797898	The Ivory Dragon	Books	3	3	4	N	N	charming sequel to &quot;Lord Huntingdon's Legacy&quot;	&quot;The Ivory Dragon&quot; is a sequel to &quot;Lord Huntingdon's Legacy,&quot; and tells of the romantic ups and downs of the younger Huntingdon daughter, Lady Harriet. And, I think that it would be safe to say that this Regency romance (at least) does not seem to have any of the plot 'flaws' that generated so much debate in &quot;Lord Huntingdon's Legacy&quot; -- save for an instance in chapter three where Harriet suddenly descends into 20th century colloquialisms -- and is quite a charming follow-up to &quot;Lord Huntingdon's Legacy&quot; esp since it seems to be chock-full of eccentric characters and strange goings-on.<br />Lady Harriet is visiting with her aunt in the country while both her mother and sister are off on their respective honeymoons, where she spends most of her days rambling about the countryside and painting water colours of flora and fauna. A sudden downpour one afternoon causes her to take shelter in a barn, where she comes across a curiously carved wooden box, a litter of new born kittens, and the incredibly handsome and flirtatious Lord Stanhope. This chance meeting also propels her into The Adventure Of The Stolen Ivory Dragon Pin (Lord Stanhope's younger brother has been falsely accused of stealing the pin from their neighbour, Baron Rothson, and Stanhope is trying to return the pin unobtrusively), as well as a rather heady flirtation with the incredibly charming Lord Stanhope. However, Stanhope also seems to be courting the extremely fetching daughter of the village vicar, Nympha Herbert. What is Harriet to make of Stanhope's alternate pursuit of her and his equally serious courtship of Miss Herbert? Especially when the beautiful and sweet natured Miss Herbert makes it only all too clear that she feels that she has the inside track to Stanhope's heart?<br />While I rather enjoyed &quot;The Ivory Dragon,&quot; I did think that it was not quite so riveting a read as &quot;Lord Huntingdon's Legacy.&quot; And that was mainly because of thecharacter of the 'other' woman. Nympha Herbert was just not unlikeable enough for this novel. She's pretty much a young woman who mistakenly assumes that Stanhope's attentions to her are serious and hangs about the place driving Harriet into paroxysms of jealously. As such, while I wanted Harriet and Stanhope to clear the air and realise that they had fallen in love with each other, I also felt sorry for Nympha for the blow that she was about to experience. <br />However there is also much to laud about this novel, most especially the realistic manner in which Emily Hendrickson has 'fleshed' out the character of Lady Harriet. It is very seldom that we get to see all facets of a heroine's character, and I liked that Hendrickson made Harriet human enough to experience jealousy over Stanhope's seeming courtship of Nympha. And I loved the subplots involving the disappearing ivory dragon pin and the goings-on at the Stanhope estate -- golf mad brother who is suspected of theft, bird enthusiast father who has abdicated his responsibilities in order to dissect birds, a mother who dresses absurdly in a bid to get her husband's attention and the relatives who have descended upon them and refuse to leave -- these subplots provided just the right kind entertaining diversion, and worked well as a counterpoint to the romance subplot.<br />All in all, I'd say that &quot;The Ivory Dragon&quot; is an entertaining read; and even if it did not quite compare to &quot;Lord Huntingdon's Legacy&quot; (for me anyway), I would still recommend it as a pleasing and charming diversion.	2002-02-14
1657345:US	52830980	ROCHZE1XE9SMQ	0451204026	973165572	Lord Huntingdon's Legacy (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	a few plot flaws but still an enjoyable read	After reading the many differing reviews about &quot;Lord Huntingdon's Legacy,&quot; I couldn't resist picking this Regency when I came across it at the library. And I'm glad I did as I'll have to admit, flaws and all, this novel did provide me with a couple of hours of pleasurably reading. I loved Emily Hendrickson's rich and lush descriptions of all the clothes that Charis (the eldest Huntingdon daughter) was provided with for her Season -- reading about the fashions of the Regency period is one addiction I'm always happy to indulge in, and I really do enjoy it when an authour goes into some detail about the dress patterns and colours and fabrics. Another thing I liked about this novel was the very close relationship that the sisters, Charis and Harriet, share. We don't see very much of this, but what little there is speaks of a deep and affectionate bond between the two. And the manner in which Hendrickson portrayed the villainess of this comedy of manners, the conniving Lady Alicia, was absolutely brilliant (esp as this allows us to see Charis at her interfering, yet well intentioned best). The reviewer at Huntress Books is quite right in her assessment of this character: here is someone that it would be an absolute pleasure to dislike immensely!<br />However this novel is not without flaws. The biggest one of which lies with the storyline where the dead Lord Huntington has cut out his wife and two daughters from his will, and left all his money to his nephew, Marcus, instead. I kept waiting for revelations as to why he did this, but this plot-line was just never developed at all. There were hints here and there that because his wife had only borne him daughters, he had transferred all his care and affection to Marcus. But I found it hard to credit that a father, esp one (who we can assume) did not hate his wife and daughters immensely, could leave things so very, very badly for his own daughters, mainly because they were not sons (esp given that things were notquite so rosy for women in the early 19th century anyway). Also, how did it come about that the appropriate marriage settlements had not been drawn up for the Dowager Lady Huntingdon when she married Lord Huntingdon? Surely her father would have seen that things were done properly when she married Lord Huntingdon? <br />And while I rather enjoyed all the tantalising tension between Charis and Marcus -- I enjoyed the sly tone that Hendrickson employed whenever she was commenting on how Charis keeps refusing to face her attraction for Marcus until it is almost too late -- I found Marcus's behaviour odd to say the least. Here, I think I'm at odds with a few of the other reviewers. I understood Charis's poking her nose into Marcus's affairs -- she is still in love with him, even if she refuses to admit it! And love, coupled with confusion and a healthy dollop of resentment, can make any young woman behave quite foolishly. Usually I dislike heroines who behave like nitwits, but I found myself feeling quite sorry for Charis, and wishing that Marcus would stop playing this strange manipulative game and woo her properly. For if you come down to it, the reason why these two have to play games is completely Marcus's fault. He's the one who withdraws from Charis when she probably needed him most, and that together with the shock of not being her father's heir, is what propels her to decide to hunt for a rich husband. And anyway, if he's truly been in love with her all this while, what on earth was he doing in London, flirting with the likes of Lady Alicia? And here we come to my next criticism of the novel: the manner in which Emily Hendrickson ties things together by having Marcus play a rather cruel joke on both his good friend and Charis. This, of course propels a grateful-to-be-rescued Charis into Marcus's arms, and allows for the pair to confess their love for each other. But I would love to be a fly on the wall when Charis finally discovers the merry dance that Marcus had led her through!<br />Flaws and all however, &quot;Lord Huntingdon's Legacy&quot; is still an enjoyable and entertaining read, and one that I would recommend if you're looking for a couple of hours of escapist fun.	2002-02-12
1658819:US	52830980	R2ZV1XPCC5TGE6	0312272847	607848451	The Case of the Murdered Muckraker (Daisy Dalrymple Mysteries, No. 10)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	a fun read	This latest Daisy Dalrymple mystery novel is not that much of a murder mystery at all, and more of an adventure abroad novel. However it is also the most light hearted of the Daisy Dalrymple mystery novels to date, and quite a bit of fun. <br />For Daisy and her husband Alec (a DCI with Scotland Yard), this visit to the United States of America is supposed to be a honeymoon trip. The reality is that Alec is in America in order to advise the Americans (J. Edgar Hoover in particular) on how to clean up and set up their Investigation Bureau of the Justice Department. So while Alec is stuck in Washington, Daisy is in New York, gathering material for her magazine articles and meeting her American editor. After one such meeting, while on their way to lunch, Daisy and her editor hear a gunshot and witness a man plummet to his death down an elevator shaft. Daisy quickly recognizes the murdered man as a fellow resident of the Chelsea Hotel. She then discovers that he is/was the journalist, Otis Carmody, an investigative reporter, also known as a 'muckraker.' It soon becomes apparent that Daisy, her editor, and a federal agent that had been shadowing Daisy (Alec's superior at the Scotland Yard had apparently warned Hoover that it would be wise to provide a watchdog for her as Daisy has the habit of getting involved in all kinds of unsavory goings-on) are the only credible witnesses to the Carmody's death (which of course turns out to be murder). Why was Carmody murdered and who committed the crime? Striking up friendships with other guests (and workers) at the Chelsea, Daisy discovers that Carmody was quite the crusading journalist, and that he had angered more than his fair share of dangerous and powerful men. Could one of them have commissioned Carmody's murder? And then there is the tantalising information about Carmody's estranged wife and her shady lover... Before long Daisy discovers that New York is not England, and that she could be in danger herself because she witnessed Carmody's murderer escaping. Never before has Daisy missed Alec so much or wished that she did not have this propensity to fall over a murder wherever she went.<br />\\"The Case of the Murdered Muckraker\\" is strictly for Daisy Dalrymple fans. It is a lighthearted read full of eccentric and quirky characters, and funny moments when Daisy ponders over the differences between the English that the British speak and the English that the American speak -- how this brought back memories of my first few years in the US -- and the differences between the manner in which Scotland Yard would have run things and the manner in which the New York detectives carry out an investigation. And while there some gathering of information and sounding out of theories, this mystery novel is still not much of a murder mystery like the previous Daisy Dalrymple mystery novels -- no red herrings, twists and turns in plot development, etc. However it is a charming and humourous book, that is bound to entertain and lighten the mood. And Carola Dunn does a wonderful job of bringing to life Prohibition-era New York, as well as certain character types. So read it for fun and entertainment and a bit of a laugh, and read something else if you're in the mood for a wicked murder mystery.	2002-02-11
1661035:US	52830980	R1WVDSBUB29WC	0743202643	261375867	Queen of Ambition	Books	4	12	12	N	N	well worth reading in spite of flaws...	There are quite a few strikes against \\"The Queen of Ambition\\" -- a tenuous intrigue plot (part of the problem here is that Buckley portrays the villains in an almost comic fashion, that it is difficult indeed to take them seriously, or the threat that they pose to the Queen); a far fetched solution to the plot (a more cumbersome cipher I have yet to come across, also there was a flaw in the whole cipher subplot, but if I pointed it out in my review, that would be giving away things); Ursula's guilt over almost having slept with her manservant Brockley (the third time she's goes into the 'thank-goodness-we-didn't-give-in' routine, and I was rooting for Fran to leave this sorry pair and find new and better employment!)... Add to this the fact that I'm not a fan of the Tudors, and found Buckley's/Ursula's whitewashing of Elizabeth quite nauseating, and you'd be right to ask why I would recommend this mystery novel as a good read? <br />Make no mistake about it however, \\"The Queen of Ambition\\" is a good read. As reviewer Charles Falk so accurately noted, Fiona Buckley does a wonderful job of interweaving the political and religious problems that Elizabeth I and her ministers faced, with the plot of this mystery novel. But what I also liked was the manner in which Buckley realistically interweaved the kind of life a servant at an Elizabethan pie-shop would lead -- the hard and relentless work, how much a servant's life was bound to the whims and caprices of the master, and the precious few hours off, with Ursula's covert search for proof of wrong-doing. Far too often, mystery writers never go into how an agent's cover can get in the way of his/her undercover work. This was, I thought, a splendid touch. I also liked the manner in which Ursula's confidence in her abilities as a secret agent are developing. Ursula Blanchard is not an easy female protagonist to like completely, but it is easy to respect her abilities and her competence. And I think that Buckley is beginningto make Ursula question many of her past assumptions about her past relationships (with her first husband, and her aunt in particular). More introspection would definitely add more 'spice' to the mix.<br />The novel unfolds interestingly enough. Buckley is very good at adding little bits of information and plot developments that adds to the tension level of this intrigue novel -- in spite of the ongoing critiquing that was going on in my mind, I was glued to the pages until I finished the novel! So all in all, I'd say that this is a book that is worth reading.	2002-02-09
1661958:US	52830980	R5CCI0YO931QH	0425183246	789069629	The Clerk's Tale (Sister Frevisse Medieval Mysteries)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	an excellent read	Mystery-wise, \\"The Clerk's Tale\\" is a rather straightforward read, and the real investigation as to who had the opportunity (many had the motive)to murder Morys Montfort, only really picks up a little more than halfway through the novel. However, the reason why this mystery novel is so compelling and gripping a read, lies the manner in which Margaret Frazer has taken time and effort to allow this mystery novel to unfold. The care and detail she pays to character development; how the characters are dressed (in order to show their character traits), the manner in which the rooms (both in the nunnery of St. Mary's and Lady Agnes's manor house) are appointed -- all these add to the texture of the novel. And all these are bounties that any avid historical mystery buff (esp this one) would definitely appreciate!<br />Another thing I liked about this Dame Fervisse mystery in particular was that we got to appreciate another side to Dame Fervisse -- the part of her that truly appreciates and loves her life of prayer and contemplation, even as she sometimes chafes at the sameness of it all. I know that from time to time, this facet of her character comes through in the previous mystery novels, however I feel that Margaret Frazer really homed in on these somewhat contradictory yearnings that Dame Fervisse has in \\"The Clerk's Tale.\\"  (You esp get to see this in the wonderful manner in which Frazer contrast the hustle and bustle of what goes on in Lady Agnes's manor with the quiet of the chapel at St. Mary's.) I also liked that Frazer had Dame Fervisse really wrestle with the fact that while she abhors that a murder has been committed, she really feels very little sorrow for the victim. This feeling of guilt at the lack of charity she feels for Morys Montfort colours much of the novel and makes it a much darker and more somber tale, and added to the richness of the novel, and makes her quest to see justice done all the more noteworthy. <br />All in all, I say that \\"The clerk's Tale\\" is an excellent read. The mystery may take time to unfold but it is definitely worth the effort of sticking it out. Frazer does an excellent job of making us care for the characters involved and for the outcome of the mystery. A really worthwhile read.	2002-02-08
1664738:US	52830980	R1CQTCA4ZCBIS	0821771779	369596403	My Lady Valiant (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	not a very probable plot premise...	The previous reviewer has done an excellent job of summarising the plot premise of this novel as well critiquing what irked. However, I feel as I NEED to add my two cents's worth. So here goes: The trouble with &quot;My Lady Valiant&quot; is that it reads more like a modern day romance which simply got transplanted to Regency England with the appropriate change of costumes but little else. How else to explain how a young woman (Anne Delamere)  could calmly inform her father that she was going on a mysterious trip (without her maid or a chaperone) to goodness knows where, all he says is, &quot;My dear, you are three and twenty. You may go into the world with my blessing. If you should loose your fortune, remember, you can always live in the poorhouse and I will you books on occasion.&quot; Perhaps the authour was trying to emulate Mr. Bennett's tone of wry humour (Austen's Pride and Prejudice&quot;) but I felt as if the attempt fell short completely. I racked my memory to try and come up with an instance in early 19th century English novels where a heroine behaved thus, and could only remember the ones in which the young woman concerned always came to a sticky end, and nothing ended happily. Female independence was prized but not foolish behaviour. <br />That as you may guess is my first criticism of this novel. My second criticism is connected to the first, in that I found it totally unlikely that a spy for the Crown would allow a young lady to tag along on a dangerous mission just because she calmly announces that she must! I know that the plot allows for this to occur, but I found this to be a plot development that was just too contrived and improbable. I know all this is just fiction and fantasy, but there has to be a dollop of reality in these novels. Having Anne tag along while Staverton hunts for the French spy, was really not very likely at all. <br />My last criticism deals with the erstwhile hero of this romance, the Earl of Staverton. What a spoilt, conceited booby! So the first woman he feel in love with was only after his wealth and title. However, I did feel that he treated every other woman since then badly. He explains away his bad behaviour to Anne, and she understands and forgives all -- except his bad behaviour of her sweet cousin, of course. I, however, was not willing to let him off the hook so quickly, as I thought he treated all the women (except perhaps the first one) horribly. In the second instance, Staverton and a young lady (Prudence) are trapped in a boathouse during a downpour. He kisses her, and contemplates proposing marriage when Prudence demands that he marry her so that her reputation not suffer. Staverton is outraged, refuses and leaves. The situation is not a pretty one, but unfortunately, Prudence was right. Her reputation would have suffered -- she was alone in a boathouse with a man who is a notorious flirt. How on earth Anne could concede that Staverton was in the right and that Prudence had behaved foolishly in this instance left me flabbergasted. And anyway, nothing justifies cutting a swarth in society, flirting and kissing young ladies, raising their hopes and expectations, and then cruelly dashing them in order to prove some kind of point! <br />I was really surprised that Valerie King had written a Regency novel that was so many improbable flaws. Ms King has been writing historical romance novels for many years now, and I've enjoyed a great many of them. Either I've become super critical with old age, or this is a one off. &quot;My Lady Valiant&quot; would really work a lot better as a modern day romance -- as a Regency, the element of fun and escapism got lost as I found myself getting bogged down with all the improbabilities.	2002-02-06
1666369:US	52830980	R3VJWK94U7SU09	0804119732	191417169	Lord of Ice	Books	4	4	7	N	N	a fun read	Like the previous reviewer, I liked \\"Lord of Ice\\" a lot better than I did \\"Lord of Fire.\\" And that it because I found that the plot and romance were developed better in this novel than it was in \\"Lord of Fire.\\"<br />When his good friend Sherbrooke is murdered, Damien Knight, the reclusive Earl of Winterley, discovers that he has been named guardian of Sherbrooke's niece, Miranda Fitzherbert. Miranda is the illegitimate daughter of a nobleman and an actress, and because of a few investments that her uncle has made on her behalf, she is also an heiress of some substance. It is Damien's plan to remove Miranda from the school is has been placed at (a very small subplot involving the principal of the school who is a pedophile) and to bring her to London for a Season, so that she can find a husband. What Damien doesn't count on is that Miranda, with her beauty and vitality will pierce the armor that he has resurrected around himself, and make him feel again. <br />The legacy of war for Damien has not only been never-ending nightmares, but also fear that that he has become a dangerous killing machine and that he cannot control the violence that is in himself. And when he finds that he is quite susceptible to his new charge, the very honourable Damien is quite appalled. But he cannot keep away from Miranda (or keep his hands off her apparently). Will Damien ignore his fears and make Miranda his own? Can Miranda with all her beauty and vitality convince him that her love is all he needs? All this angst and drama is played out admist the dazzling London Season, Miranda's triumph as the latest diamond to grace the scene, and her greedy and deranged uncle's attempts to make Miranda's fortune his.<br />Plot-wise, \\"Lord of Ice\\" has a lot going for it: a greedy relative that has designs on the heroine's fortune; a beautiful heroine who is not quite of the ton but whose vitality and  courage touches the hero, who is not quite so immune to the heroine's charms as he would like to be. The plot unfolds at a brisk pace, and I finished the novel before I even realised it! And although Miranda's foolish behavior in the first couple of chapters did make me sigh with exasperation -- why do historical romance novelists make their heroines behave in a reckless manner that would not have been the norm for the times? (Ex: in the second chapter welearn that Miranda trails between the school and the theatre each night, but somehow, in spite of the fact that she has no escort or chaperone, is never molested or murdered before Damien enters the scene? -- she must have been extremely lucky, because otherwise, this entire premise would beggar belief! And then there is the scene in whihc Damien and Miranda meet for the first time: he thinks she is an actress on the make, she thinks that he is the cat's whiskers, and proceeds to succumb to his kisses torrid abandon; but when he propositions her, she is outraged? I wasn't sure whether to laugh or sigh at her naivete). However, I was able to get over my irritation rather quickly because the plot and the pacing made this novel so very absorbing and interesting a read.	2002-02-05
1668575:US	52830980	R873JJGQDRTIJ	0821771930	520333787	A Rake's Redemption	Books	4	1	2	N	N	a delightful read	Lawrence Jamison, the Earl of Hardcastle, is a rake and a gambler with standards. And when the young Baron Fossey looses his estate to him, and then leaves London before settling his debt, an irate Hardcastle pursues him into Oxfordshire. But before he can reach Fossey's estate, he is set upon by two ruffians, who leave him concussed and beaten. The next thing he knows, he is being rescued by Miss Phaedra Gillian, the spinster daughter of a retired vicar and who looks and behaves like an angel. Soon, Hardcastle is ensconced in the Gillian household and treated kindly by both Phaedra and her scholarly father, and astonishingly, Hardcastle, who had always thought of himself as a creature of the ton, finds himself enjoying the simple pleasures of intelligent conversation, chess and the angelic and chaste charms of Phaedra Gillian. What on earth could be happening to him? For Hardcastle finds to his surprise that he is quite reluctant for his new friends (Phaedra especially) to discover who and what he really is.<br />Phaedra Gillian had quite resigned herself to her spinsterish existence, when this handsome and vital stranger practically landed on her doorstep. And now this very innocent young woman discovers that she is highly susceptible to the charms and good looks of this unknown gentleman. And then Phaedra discovers that her invalid is actually a hard boiled rake with a reputation that makes her blush. But she cannot reconcile this two differing pictures of Hardcastle. Which is the real Hardcastle? Phaedra hopes that her notion of who Hardcastle really is, is the true one. But what will happen when Phaedra realises that Hardcastle has it in his power to cause great unhappiness to dear friends, and that he intends to cause them grief anyway because of a principle? <br />This is a well written novel, and Donna Simpson has done a wonderful job in rounding out the characters (both secondary and primary) of all the characters involved in this novel. Nevertheless, the plot premise is a common one -- of how a rake is redeemed by the love and compassion of an intelligent and sweet natured young woman. However what really lifts this novel out of the realms of 'the usual' is the character of Phaedra's father, Phineas Gillian. Usually, the scholarly fathers are portrayed as absentminded innocents, who have very little inkling of the kinds of temptations and threats that rakes can pose. Mr. Gillian however, while is of the scholarly bent, is an intelligent and kindly man, who while he seems to understand and empathise with Hardcastle, also realises fully the threat that Hardcastle poses to his daughter's reputation. I also like that Hardcastle when finally faced with a compliant Phaedra, pulls back from making love to her because he realises the very wrongness of the whole thing. For me, that really signaled the change in Hardcastle's status from full fledged rake, to a redeemed one. (If only more romance heroes behaved in a similar manner!)<br />All in all, \\"A Rake's Redemption\\" was a very satisfying read. There is a lot more conversation and philosophizing in this romance novel than one usually finds in this genre, but I reveled in debate that Hardcastle, Phaedra and Mr. Gillian partook in when they discussed the issues of love and redemption and honour -- it made for a nice change of pace. \\"A Rake's Redemption\\" is truly a delightful read.	2002-02-03
1673805:US	52830980	R106X6TMA1UUUQ	0451205219	697953189	Lady Rogue (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	a disappointing read	\\"Lady Rogue\\" by Amanda McCabe starts out promisingly enough: Alexander Kenton, the Duke of Wayland, returns form the wars to find that he has inherited a wreck of an estate form his wastrel brother, and that money is desperately needed not only to put the estate to rights but so that his invalid mother and young sister can know a measure of comfort and ease. And so Alexander resolves to go to London in order to find a rich wife. And he finds her in the form of Mrs. Georgina Beaumont, a very rich and independent widow, who also happens to be a talented portrait painter, and whom he falls in love with a first sight. And wonder of wonders, she seems to favour him also. And at this point, after the initial meeting, the novel fizzles. Not much happens after this: Alexander and Georgina partake in the usual tonnish rounds of entertainment, flirt a little, talk a little -- in between of which Georgina and her best friend Elizabeth discuss Alexander's good looks and good qualities at great length -- and then she's off to meet his family where she ends up spending a lot more time with his sister (Emily) than with him. And then a conflict arises between the two when Georgina generously loans Emily some money. The two fight, and Georgina leaves for London. Will Alexander try to patch things up with Georgina? Or will Georgina's wealth and Alexander's need of it be too much for him to deal with?<br />I tried to figure out why I was so disappointed with this novel and came away with the feeling that in spite of the fact that Alexander seemed like the perfect gentleman, Georgina was a rather nice and intelligent heroine, and their initial momentous meeting (Alexander dives into a lake in order to rescue Georgina's dog) the developing romance between the two was somewhat lacking. There was actually more of a spark between Georgina and Alexander's sister than there was between our said hero and heroine. And then there was the whole bit about Alexander not wanting Georgina for her money. The sad fact is that he needs her money in order to straighten out his family affairs. However, having fallen in love with Georgina seems to have made Alexander forget that the entire reason why he went to London in the first place: to find money. He may dislike needing Georgina's money but acting as if she was forcing it down his throat was a bit much, in my opinion. <br />\\"Lady Rogue\\" seemed to have the potential to be a really great read. Unfortunately for me, this potential was never fully realised.	2002-01-30
1674183:US	52830980	R1IPXJTVUGR2HZ	0821771825	614755457	Miss Grantham's One True Sin (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	a wonderful read	This latest Regency romance novel from Melynda Beth Skinner, \\"Miss Grantham's One True Sin\\" is a little more complex a novel than her first one, \\"The Blue Devil\\" mainly because it deals with the psychology of the main characters involved. And while it was not quite the lighthearted romp that her first novel was, \\"Miss Grantham's One True Sin\\" is still an enjoyable read.<br />Marianna Grantham is in a quandary. She has been sent to England by her parents in order to contract an advantageous marriage that will pave the Grantham's way into the London ton. A year has passed since Marianna has set foot in England, and she is no closer to attaining her goal. The trouble is that she has been sending letters to her parents, lying about her triumphs; the trouble is that her parents are on their way to England. Marianna needs a sham betrothal to an eligible bachelor and she needs it now. And when her friend, Ophelia Robertson steers her towards Truesdale Sinclair, the Viscount Trowbridge, who is in deep debt, Marianna believes that she has struck gold.  <br />Meanwhile, Truesdale Sinclair, is facing problems of his own. He has inherited an estate that is bankrupt and the guardianship of his three hellion nieces. Truesdale needs money badly, and he needs to find someone who can provide a good and stabilizing effect on his nieces. So that Marianna proposes to pay him to pretend to be her fiance (thus keeping her parents satisfied while she goes about trying to find her own true love), Truesdale comes up with a scheme of his own to seduce her and get the heiress to marry him. Thus begins the charade about mistaken impressions: Marianna thinks that she's made a bargain with a care-for-nothing rake, who has absolutely no redeeming qualities whatsoever, while Truesdale thinks that he has to seduce a woman obsessed with clawing her way up the ranks of the ton. Both of course are in for a surprise. But will discovering each other's true nature and character be enough for these oftenat odds pair to realise that they were meant for each other? Or will it take a much stronger catalyst?<br />I rather enjoyed reading \\"Miss Grantham's One True Sin\\" and Melynda Beth Skinner made it easy for me to sympathise and empathise with all of Marianna's fears and hopes. Here was a young woman who had put her own desires and wishes on hold in order to fulfill her parents's ambition to be part of the London ton. And even when I felt like shaking her because of her idealised notions about how tonnish society was the only society worth knowing, I felt sorry for her blinkered thinking. It was even easy to feel charmed by the rakish Truesdale, even when I disapproved of his cold-hearted seduction plan. I only had two problems with this otherwise rather well written novel: 1)Marianna's parents came across as one dimensional selfish fools; and 2) it would have been great if Marianna realised on her own that the members of the ton were not the idealised beings she had thought them to be. Other than that, I enjoyed this novel. Marianna Grantham, with all her beliefs, fears, insecurities, strengths and weaknesses makes this romance novel a more textured and memorable one. And one worth recommending as a good read.	2002-01-30
1675691:US	52830980	RIAV70NAG5EP	0451205200	190470750	The Soldier's Bride (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	an excellent read	This is, beyond doubt, the best installment in the Barlow sisters trilogy, and (in my opinion anyway) the best Regency romance novel that April Kihlstrom has ever written. I'm not going to go too much into the plot outline, because reading everything that occurs in this splendid novel for yourself, is a definite must. Briefly however, Lisbeth Barlow, the youngest of the Barlow sisters, is unhappily contemplating her return to the country, when Lord Thomas Kepley asks her to marry him. A soldier, Lord Thomas is all set to return to the Peninsula, when he is ordered by his father to marry the daughter of a family friend. And this, Lord Thomas is unwilling to do. So he decides to bilk his father's guns by marrying Lisbeth instead. <br />The Barlow women have a family belief that when they look into the family locket, they will see the face of the man that they will find love and happiness with. And when it is Lisbeth's turn, the face she sees is that of Lord Thomas. So that when he asks her to marry him, she agrees. Little do Lord Thomas and Lisbeth expect however the furor that their impetuous behaviour will cause. Lord Thomas's family refuses to acknowledge the marriage, and when Lord Thomas returns to the war, the unpleasant atmosphere in London causes Lisbeth to remove to the country, where she gives birth to a baby boy. Twenty months go by before Lord Thomas returns home to find Lisbeth living in virtual penury along with her aunt and his infant son. The bitter experience of war coupled with his family's insidious whisperings as well as the lack of a family birthmark causes Lord Thomas to doubt that the baby is his. However, Lord Thomas is resolved to make this marriage work. And so he and Lisbeth decide to put the past twenty months behind them and begin again. But can they brush aside the fact that Lord Thomas believes that Lisbeth played him false and that the boy is not really his own?<br />I liked this novel because the plot had a great deal more substance toit than one generally gets from a Signet Regency novel. (And I'm not talking about the spy-subplot dealing with Lord Thomas's war experince). Lord Thomas and Lisbeth have a lot to work out together in order to make their marriage a success (not counting the whole issue of whether or not Lisbeth's baby is Lord Thomas's son), and April Kihlstrom does a wonderful job of characterizing all the difficulties that the pair face. Both husband and wife have to find a way to deal with each other and Kihlstrom depicts both their mistakes and their triumphs evenly. I also think that Lisbeth Barlow is one of the strongest and most resilient of Regency heroines. Left alone and destitute, she still manages to make enough money for her and her son and aunt to live on. And when faced with her husband's refusal to accept that her son as his, she does not breakdown into maudlin tears, nor does she retreat or loose hope of making him accept that the boy is his. It's difficult indeed not to admire her and root for her to succeed. And I liked the manner in which Kihlstrom resolves the manner of the missing birthmark without resorting to the pat 'everyone-forgives-each-other-and-lives-happily-ever-after'.<br />\\"The Soldier's Bride\\" is a really good read, and even if the subplot involving Aunt Margaret and the mysterious locket could have done with a little fleshing out, I'm still recommending this romance novel as an excellent read.	2002-01-29
1677465:US	52830980	R3MHOIEQG4JUQG	0449006379	734231472	Lord of Fire	Books	3	4	5	N	N	not too bad...	The trouble with novels that are part of a series is high expectations. You read one book in the series, like it so much that you count the months to the next installation, and when it comes and doesn't quite live up to expectations, you're let down. This is of course not very fair to the unfortunate novel or the authour. Not everyone can rise to the occasion all the time. And indeed &quot;Lord of Fire&quot; is a fun read -- even if the plot premise is not terribly new or original one, it is still a poignant one. And the heroine, Alice Montague, will definitely win the hearts and approval of most romance readers. The tormented hero, Lucien Knight, is likable (in other words, one is able to forgive him his somewhat initial caddish behaviour towards Alice because of his 'selfless' mission to nab the super villain). But I was still disappointed with &quot;Lord of Fire.&quot; And that is because I made the big mistake of rereading &quot;The Duke&quot; before I started &quot;Lord of Fire.&quot; &quot;The Duke&quot; (the first book in the series dealing with the Knight siblings) was one of those really big, super romance novels that had everything -- an intriguing plot, two powerful and tormented primary characters and a lot of angst and joy that made this novel truly memorable -- even if the language and manners/etiquette was sometimes off. &quot;Lord of Fire&quot; falls short when compared to &quot;The Duke.&quot; And perhaps it is not very fair to compare the two, but it is difficult not to do so. Still, if you're looking for a romance novel that will help you while away the night, this one should do amply. As with &quot;The Duke&quot; the language is sometimes off and a little high-flown, but the story is a good one and the romance that develops between Lucien and Alice is a strong and memorable one. Just don't read it right after &quot;The Duke.&quot;	2002-01-27
1681627:US	52830980	R28LB5MTWYQ2B	0747266123	753411542	The Tournament of Blood (Knights Templar)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	a gripping read	\\"The Tournament of Blood\\" is slightly different from previous West Country mysteries by Michael Jecks in that it does not focus so much on a rather chilling series of horrific murders and that there are a a lot more characters in this mystery novel than usual. So be forewarned: there are several knights and squires with similar names that a slightly less attentive reader could get quite confused over!<br />\\"The Tournament of Blood\\" opens with the murder of the money lender, Benjamin Dudenay, by Philip Tyrel (information given in the first chapter.) Many years ago, Tyrel lost his wife and children because of Dudenay; and seeing Dudenay again all these many years later, even more prosperous than before and apparently feeling no remorse for his crimes, pushes Tyrel to execute Dudenay quite brutally. Tyrel thinks that his rage is spent; however the authour let's us in on one piece of important information: that Tyrel will soon meet the other men who were responsible for his family's untimely death, and that he will kill again (again info from the first chapter).<br />It's 1322, and Hugh de Courtenay has decided to host a tournament to take his mind off his current political problems with King Edward II. Many knights have been invited, and Bailiff Simon Puttock has been asked to see to the preparations for the tournament. And while Puttock is thrilled to have been asked to undertake so important a task, having to deal with the sniveling and quarrelsome Hal Sachevyll and Wymond Carpenter, is more than he can bear! Sachevyll and Carpenter have been commissioned to design and construct the stands and have been complaining about shoddy materials and predicting accidents if the stands are constructed with such bad wood. They have demanded that better material be provided for them to work with. This Puttock is loathe to do because the pair have already been paid to buy the materials that they need. Puttock suspects that they have pocketed the money that should have gone towards buying good wood, buying shoddy wood instead. And he's not about to reward the duplicitous pair by paying for more wood to be bought. The quarrel between Sachevyll, Carpenter and Puttock becomes quite acrimonious and things look bad indeed for Puttock when Carpenter is found beaten to death in his tent, and he becomes a suspect of the murder.<br />Fortunately for Puttock, his good friend Sir Baldwin Furnshill, Keeper of the King's Peace, and the coroner, Sir Roger de Gidleigh, do not believe that he had anything to do with Carpenter's death, and they begin to look more closely into the murder. They discover that Carpenter was murdered in a manner similar to the moneylender Dudenay, and that Dudenay, Carpenter and Sahevyll were partners in quite a few enterprises. They also discover that quite a few people detested all three men -- from knights who blame them for the deaths incurred when their shoddy stands fell apart, to knights and squires who disliked Dubenay because they owed him money. In the meantime, Puttock is discovering that it is not easy to keep his attention focused on preparations for the tournament with a murder charge hanging over his head, his teenage daughter's sudden rebellious behaviour (and her sudden infatuation with a dislikable squire), and the Royal Herald's petty snipping! If only he could solve the murder before the tournament starts! But what Puttock, Sir Baldwin and Sir Roger don't realise is that Tyrel is in their midst under an assumed name, and that he is resolved to execute the third man he holds responsible for the loss of his family.<br />With this latest mystery novel, Michael Jecks again brings to life colourful 14th century England. The novel is peppered with enough historical fact, so that we understand the political reality of the time; but what I especially liked was his realistic portrayal of what a tournament entailed -- the brutality involved as well as the greed for ransoms (knights who loose the joust and who yield arethen held for ransom by the victor). And I thought that Jecks did a wonderful job in depicting all the different hates that the knights and squires had for each other, as well as Puttock's daughter's sudden into bratty teenage behaviour. The mystery itself is a little more straight forward than usual, with very few twists and turns in plot development (except for how Jecks keeps us guessing as to which one of the suspects is Tyrel), however the tension and tight pacing was always there, and contributed a lot towards making this novel a gripping read. I enjoyed this novel immensely, and would heartily recommend to all mediaeval mystery fans.	2002-01-24
1682207:US	52830980	R3SZMIWM75EQS8	0821772473	258418043	The Bride Wore Blue (The Brides of Bath)	Books	3	31	32	N	N	good story & great hero, but the heroine...	\\"The Bride Wore Blue\\" is actually a rather fun 5 star Regency romance novel -- and if it wasn't for the fact that I desperately wanted to shake the heroine, Felicity Harrison, rather hard, I probably would have awarded it the 5 star rating it deserved. <br />The novel starts in 1807, when a very young Felicity Pembrooke rescues a young man who had been wounded in a robbery and left to die. Not only does she obtain medical help for him, but she also gets her fiance, Captain Michael Harrison to procure passage for this unknown unfortunate to India. The novel then fast forwards to 1813, where Felicity is now a young widow and living in Bath with her brother, George, and younger sister, Glee, and they are almost penniless. And that's when Thomas Moreland, a very rich and newly returned Indian nabob approaches Felicity with a business proposition. He will settle all the Pembrooke debts as well as set up an annuity for both Felicity and Glee, if Felicity agrees to introduce Thomas and his sister, Dianna, to Bath society. Felicity is torn: she'd like nothing better than to throw Thomas's money back at his face, but she cannot deny that she and her siblings need the money desperately, esp if she wishes to launch Glee into Bath society in style. And so gritting her teeth, Felicity agrees to sponsor the Morelands. The more time she spends with them, the more she begins to like and respect them, esp Thomas who intrigues her, and whose ardent attention makes her feel young and alive again. Could she be falling for the 'vulgar' nabob?<br />Many years ago, Thomas Moreland fell in love with the ministering angel who rescued him. She, however, was about to marry someone else. Now, years later, Thomas is in a position to both help and woo Felicity Harrison. However, it is a well known fact that Felicity is still in deep mourning for her husband, and that she has no desire to ever marry again. Thomas is nothing if not persistent. With patience, kindness and devotion, he hopes to winFelicity's affections. But there are those who disapporve of the developing relationship between Thomas and Felicity, and they begin a campaign of whispers and slanders against Thomas, hoping to drive a wedge between Felicity and Thomas. Will Felicity believe the slanders and turn her back on Thomas or will she believe in his love and intregity?<br />The Bride Wore Blue\\" is quite a fun read, even if the language was at times a tad too Americanized, as well as a little high flown in parts. The characters were all rather well developed, and it is hard not to take the hero of this romance novel to heart. After all what is there not to like? He is kind, generous, good looking and utterly ardent in his courtship of Felicity. Which was probably why I wanted to shake her ever so often. When Felicity first meets Thomas (in 1813) he makes her feel intimated and petty about her snobbishness, and so she takes him into great dislike. And while I understood her snobbish attitude (let's face it: aristocrats still behave the same way in this day and age), it still grated. It takes quite a while before she softens towards him, and just when things are beginning to look good Thomas, she discovers that he is the man she rescued all those years ago, and jumps to the conclusion that he is being condescending and sneering about her behind her back. How she arrived at this conclusion left me totally in the dark, esp given that up till then she'd decided that he was quite and honourable man. Again, it takes a lot of persistence and patience on Thomas's part to win her favour. And again just as things are going his way, something else happens and Felicity turns her back on him once more. And while I had begun to wonder about Thomas's devotion to Felicity, I simply couldn't understand what was going on in Felicity's mind. For an intelligent woman, she persisted in acting like a snobbish nitwit! One couldn't even claim that it was a case of past history making her unsure and wary of men, asthe sketchy history Cheryl Bolen provides us with about Felicity's marriage seems to suggest that it was a good one, if not a terribly passionate one. Felicity seemed to need others to interpret Thomas's behaviour for her, and that made very little sense to me. <br />All in all however, this was an enjoyable read. I liked the hero, and wished that there were more romance heroes like him. I'd recommend reading this novel as well as the next one in the series, \\"With This Ring.\\"	2002-01-24
1687868:US	52830980	R1QA06CCGOJX92	0451205278	504886122	A Rival Heir (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	an enjoyable read	This must be the month for unassuming heroines who don't expect too much from life! Unlike the heroine of &quot;Lord Darlington's Darling&quot; (Abigail Fairchilde) the heroine of &quot;A Rival Heir&quot; (Nell Armstrong) is not very shy or demure, but like Abigail, Nell doesn't expect to have high drama or a grand passion in life -- in fact Nell has quietly reigned herself to spending the rest of her life as a spinster, looking after her crotchety aunt, Rosemarie Longstreet (Nell's mother's elder sister).<br />Both Nell's parents have passed away by the time she was fifteen. And in spite of the fact that her maternal grandfather had been estranged from his daughter because of her runaway marriage, he nonetheless takes his granddaughter (Nell) in and provides a home for her. On his deathbed however he extracts a promise from Nell that she would stay with her Aunt Rosemarie until her death, and never desert her. An obedient young woman, Nell gives her word freely -- with no money to her name whatsoever it is unlikely that she will ever marry anyway -- and she does have an affection for her difficult aunt. Now Miss Longstreet however, has decided to shed her reclusive ways and make for Bath to drink the waters. Or so she says. Nell however suspects that her aunt is UP TO SOMETHING, but she's not sure what. And she has no inkling how this trip to Bath will change her life forever.<br />Sir Hugh Nowlin (Rosemarie's godson and heir) is surprised to see his godmother in Bath, and he suspects that she is there for a purpose. However, even more pressing than his curiosity as to why she is in Bath, is his fear that he is about to be replaced as his godmother's heir, by Nell. And much as he is taken by Nell's good looks and dignified air, he's not about to allow her to do him out of his inheritance. But the more time he spends with unassuming Nell, the more he begins to appreciate and care for her, and the more her unhappy situation grates. What should he do? Should he give his claim to Rosemarie's estate? Neither Nell's dead grandfather nor Rosemarie herself seem to have been too concerned about Nell's welfare or future. And then there is Nell herself, who is very skittish and reluctant to pursue any kind of relationship with him. And what is the real reason behind Rosemarie's visit to Bath?<br />Nell Armstrong may not be to everyone's taste -- she's not one of those terribly witty or feisty heroines -- but I did find myself taking to her enormously. The situation she finds herself in was a rather common one for young women without money, and I thought that Laura Matthews did a rather good job of portraying her plight. I also liked that Sir Hugh was not an outright paragon, and that he really had to battle with himself whether or not to relinquish all claim to his hoped for inheritance. And while I found the subplot involving Rosemarie Longstreet to be an intriguing and interesting one, I didn't really care for the hinted at resolution. It was just too pat. <br />&quot;A Rival Heir&quot; was quite the fun read, and if you're looking for something slightly different from the usual, this romance novel should do the trick.	2002-01-19
1689276:US	52830980	RJEJPXEY4LH7X	031287653X	841554209	The King's Name (The King's Peace, Book 2)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	a powerful and compelling read	&quot;King's Name&quot; is a sequel to &quot;King's Peace&quot; and is a retelling of the darker part of the Arthurian legend -- the bit where the dream of a kingdom united under one king and one law falls apart because of treachery form within the kingdom. And in case you've forgotten either the events and characters from &quot;King's Peace,&quot; Jo Walton has provided a thumbnail sketch of everything that happened in &quot;King's Peace&quot; in the introduction to &quot;King's Name.&quot;<br />King Urdo's dream of a united kingdom and peace for the nation of Tir Tanagiri, seems to be on the brink of destruction. And this time the threat is not from barbarian invaders, but from within. While many acknowledge that Urdo has brought peace and unity, and that his laws are just ones, others see only the thirst for absolute power and tyranny. There is also the fear that Urdo will force all his subjects to convert to this new religion of light and the one god. Fanned by fear, greed and Morthu (Urdo's treacherous nephew)'s treasonous whispering, Urdo's erstwhile friends and enemies seem poised to start a civil war. And now it is up to Sulien ap Gwien, once Urdo's most trusted of warriors and his right hand, to put a stop to this treason, and to fight for Urdo's dream of a united kingdom to remain a reality.<br />&quot;King's Name&quot; keeps pretty much to the parameters of the Arthurian legend. Nothing really terribly new or different in the manner in which the plot of &quot;King's Name&quot; unfolds. So why read this novel? Because it is always thrilling and poignant to read such tales. The Arthurian legend was a powerful one of hope and promise, as well as a poignant one of betrayal and treachery. And I was relieved to note that Jo Walton (thank goodness) has not bothered to include her version of the 'doomed' love affair between Guinevere and Lancelot (am I the only person bored with this &quot;love&quot; story?). She's concentrated instead on the dream that Urdo/Arthur had for a kingdom united under one law, the compromises that Urdo and his followers had to make in order to realise this dream, and how the failure to understand these compromises as well as the new laws, leads Urdo's erstwhile allies (and his greedy enemies) to try and topple him from the throne. We get to see how this splinters families as well as once close friends, as the entire kingdom splits into those who support their king and those back his would-be usurpers. I enjoyed &quot;King's Peace&quot; very much, and found &quot;King's Name&quot; to be a satisfying finish to this retelling of the Arthurian legend. Events unfolded smoothly, and the authour maintained a tight control on the pacing and action. She also did a wonderful job in character development. And while the chief protagonist, Sulien ap Gwien, remains the brusque and to the point warrior we're all familiar with from &quot;King's Peace,&quot; other characters (such as Sulien's mother and her son) are fleshed more. And this gave the novel a level of texture and complexity that enhanced the reading pleasure. <br />'King's Name&quot; is a powerful novel and makes for compelling reading.	2002-01-18
1691571:US	52830980	R5A83YPW84O7L	051513225X	400114913	Pendragon	Books	2	8	10	N	N	plot and characters did not hold my interest	I grew bored with this novel very fast and that is probably because I didn't take to the heroine of &quot;Pendragon&quot; at all. There is nothing terribly new or different (plot-wise, or indeed character-wise) and I tried desperately hard to find something to hold onto to, because I do enjoy Catherine Coulter's work -- &quot;The Countess&quot; for example is one Regency by Coulter that I particularly like. But somehow I found Merrie Sherbrooke to be a rather cold and smug individual, in spite of Catherine Coulter's efforts to depict her otherwise.<br />Merrie Sherbrooke, the only daughter of Reverend Tysen Sherbrooke (and whom we were first introduced to in &quot;The Scottish Bride), is about to make her London debut. She's rather looking forward to the whole thing, but she's especially excited when she realises that the Jeremy Stanton-Grenville, the object of a long-standing crush, is also in London for the Season. Merrie is sure that (finally) God and Fate have conspired to see to it that she gets to spend time with Jeremy so that she can get him see that she's all grown up and ready for his attentions. Alas, things don't go as she hoped, for Jeremy instead than returning her affections, falls in love with someone else and gets engaged! Devastated, Merrie returns to the country, but she is unable to put Jeremy out of her thoughts (even after he gets married). And then she learns that his wife is pregnant! In the meantime, Merrie is being courted by Thomas Malcombe, the Earl of Lancaster. Hearing that Jeremy is about to become a father pushes Merrie into impulsively accepting Thomas's proposal of marriage. And with a heart that is still Jeremy's (and in spite of her father's reservations) Merrie and Thomas marry and take off for his ancestral home in the North. <br />After a disastrous wedding night (which made for some really uncomfortable reading), Merrie's and Thomas's homecoming further deteriorates when they practically walk in the front door to discover thehanging body of a tenant/servant. (Whether this was a suicide or a murder is never really resolved -- or perhaps I missed the bit where all is explained as I was desperately skimming through the pages at this point, looking for something to hold my attention.) Merrie soon discovers that things at the castle are far from normal -- to begin with both the previous earl's wives seem to be residing quite amiably under one roof, with Thomas's discarded mother still acting like the dowager countess (and how exactly did this come about? The previous earl had divorced her, so how can she still be the dowager countess?) However while she insists on running the household, she seems content with allowing the castle to fall apart from neglect. Also, she seems to disapprove of Merrie completely (her dislike of Merrie is never really explained either). And then there is Thomas's rakish, good-for-nothing younger half-brother, who seems bent on sleeping with every available woman. And finally there is the creepy neighbour, who seems to be underfoot all the time. But if Merrie finds this setup odd, all this pales when someone tries to kill her. Who is trying to kill her and why?<br />Leaving aside the fact that the heroine of &quot;Pendragon&quot; really irritated me, the uncomfortable truth is that much of this novel reads a little like a well tried formula -- there was no different take or angle that would have made this novel interesting reading, or made me want to root for Thomas and Merrie to get past their differences and make a go of things. Even the cat racing felt contrived. I love cats, but came away with the uncomfortable feeling that the cats were being cherished for their racing abilities only. And that really irked.	2002-01-16
1691776:US	52830980	R1RKIATJ4AOUND	0821771701	821893617	The Valentine Wish (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	a goodish read in spite of heroine's initial stiffness	Unfortunately &quot;The Valentine Wish&quot; is not quite as interesting a read as the first book in the Creswell sisters trilogy. Part of the problem for me was that while I could intellectually appreciate the reason why Emma holds so rigidly to the need for propriety and control, I still found myself still becoming a little impatient with her inability to accept the fortunate circumstance she suddenly finds herself in (even if it is a highly unconventional one) and go with the flow. <br />Unable to cope with the notoriety of being the Devilish Dandy's daughter (he is an audacious jewel thief that happens to be on the run) and the censure that the London ton, Emma Creswell has opted instead to take a job as the companion to Lady Hartshore, in deepest Kent. What Emma doesn't know however is that while Lady Hartshore is a kindly older woman, she is a mite unconventional, and that her household has the reputation of being a highly eccentric one.  To begin with, there is Lady Hartshore readily admits to conversing regularly with her long dead husband; and then there is Lady Hartshore's brother with whom she resides -- because of a war wound, the once valiant general now believes that he is the pirate Black Bart. And then there is Lady Hartshore's gypsy housekeeper who dabbles in reading tea leaves... But none of these good people try Emma's peace of mind as much as Lady Hartshore's roguish nephew, Cedric Morelane, who seems intent on teasing and flirting with her. And Emma, who had hoped to find solace in working for a proper and respectable household, only to find herself in the middle of an eccentric one instead, (esp since Lady Hartshore is intent in treating Emma like a valued guest instead of an employee), now must contend with the uncomfortable possibility that she may forget her firm resolve and succumb to Cedric's charm. And then just as Emma is beginning to let her guard down, her rascally father turns up at the village, pretending to be someone else. What isthe Devilish Dandy up to? And what will happen if someone recognises him? Torn between wanting to help her father, and wanting to have noting to do with him, Emma must make some hard decision and soon.<br />I think that Debbie Raleigh did a rather good job of charting the blossoming romance between Emma and Cedric. I do wish however that she had given us a little more of Emma's gradual loosening of her stiff manners and shown us more of how Emma comes to accept and enjoy being part of Lady Hartshore's eccentric household -- esp since everyone in that household is really nice. I also liked the manner in which Raleigh allowed for Emma and her father to resolve certain issues that lay between them. &quot;The Valentine Wish&quot; is not a bad read, in fact it is far more romantic read than the first book in this series, &quot;The Christmas Wish.&quot; It's just the nature of expectations: having enjoyed the first book so very much, I naturally expected that I would &quot;The Valentine Wish&quot; as much. And this is not really fair to the book or authour. &quot;The Valentine Wish&quot; is a goodish read, and if you can get past Emma's initial stiffness and reservations, then you will enjoy this novel a lot more than I have led you to expect.	2002-01-16
1695318:US	52830980	R2LAGE93EFECFY	0312282087	795504067	Skeleton at the Feast (Yorkshire)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	an enjoyable and compelling read	&quot;Skeleton at the Feast&quot; is yet another compelling and riveting installment in the Yorkshire Mystery series that features the broodingly charismatic Detective Chief Inspector, Michael Thackeray.<BR> <BR>In &quot;Skeleton at the Feast,&quot; Thackeray has been sent to Oxford University (his alma mater) in order to attend a summer course on police management. In reality however, Thackeray has been sent out of Bradfield while his fate is being decided -- a young police officer had been shot under his command, and Thackeray is now facing an inquiry into whether or not he is to be held accountable for her untimely death. For Thackeray however, being in Oxford again resurrects all kinds of painful memories of not really fitting in, being harassed by the snobby upper-class students with whom he played rugby, and the tragic accidental death of one of the first women to be admitted to St. Frideswides (Thackerary's college). And when Thackeray's old tutor, Hugh Greenaway, and current Master of St. Frideswides asks Thackeray to unofficially look into the disappearance of a senior don and an old undergraduate rugby foe, Dr. Mark Harrison, he reluctantly agrees to do so. But when he meets the don's abandoned wife, Thackeray realises that there is a whole lot more going on then Greenaway had led him to believe. Motivated by sympathy for Mrs. Harrison, and a desire to see justice done, Thackeray begins to look deeply into the affairs of the missing Mark Harrison, and discovers that Harrison is not the only person missing from Oxford. His young mistress seems to be missing as well; and not only has her disappearance been ignored, but few seem to care as to her whereabouts. Angry that once again unsavory misdeeds are being swept under the carpet, Thackeray is determined to discover the truth and to bring it out into the open. The once friendly Greenaway tries to warn Thackeray off, but will independently minded Thackeray listen?     <br />What makes &quot;Skeleton at the Feast&quot; such great reading is that we get to know a little bit more about DCI Michael Thackery and the past that haunts him and that helped shape him. We also get to see how much policing in England seems to have become a little bit less the pursuit of law and order, and more about clearance rates and numbers. And while the Oxford events that are related in &quot;Skeleton at the Feast&quot; make for compelling reading, what makes this mystery novel doubly interesting is that Patricia Hall has juxtaposed what occurs in Oxford with a case of violent assault that has taken place in Bradfield which Thackeray's sidekicks DS Mower and DC Ridley have to cope with under the command of the new acting head, the ambitious DI Jackie Bairstow, who is after Thackeray's job. How Hall manages to juxtapose these two different subplots, and yet makes everything seem so seamless, is absolutely brilliant. <br />The greatest charm about this series (and book) is that Patricia Hall has created a group of characters whose well-being we have come to care about. With each new mystery novel we learn a little more of each character and empathise with the ups and downs in their lives. The Yorkshire Mystery is a wonderfully absorbing series, and &quot;Skeleton at the Feast&quot; fits in superbly.	2002-01-13
1696038:US	52830980	R3IC6C9KO56HF	0451205022	699251917	Lord Darlington's Darling (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	an interesting diversion	&quot;Lord Darlington's Darling&quot; is a different kind of Regency romance in that the heroine of this novel does not fit the incredibly beautiful, confident, witty and feisty mold that is so popular right now. Indeed the heroine of this novel, while she is held to be attractive, is so shy and tongue-tied, that she frequently comes across as being a little diffident and unsure of herself. But given that I've been reading quite a few Regencies lately where the heroines (if they had had the good fortune of being born in the 20th century, could have all run for parliament, and won!) were all so incredibly perfect, I was in the mood for shy, demure Abigail Fairchilde, and all the angst she faced during this, her second London Season.<br />Abigail's older married sister, Melissa, is sponsoring Abigail in what will be her second season. (Abigail had the misfortune to fall ill during her first season), and Melissa has all but picked out Abigail's future husband for her: Lord Fielding, a sober gentleman of some means. And while Abigail is not exactly over the moon about the prospect of marrying Lord Fielding, she obediently allows Melissa to shepherd her into an 'almost' understanding with Lord Fielding. And then Lord Darlington comes to town together with his mother and his rebellious younger sister, Bethany. Lord Darlington and Abigail had met during her first Season, and now they meet again at Almacks. The pair resume their friendship much to Melissa's chagrin and displeasure. And while neither of them will admit it openly, both Abigail and Lord Darlington are tantalized and taken with each other. Could it be perhaps that Lord Darlington rather than Lord Fielding holds the key to Abigail's heart? What then of Melissa's hopes and expectations that Abigail will marry Lord Fielding? Will she allow Abigail to follow the dictates of her heart? All this soon becomes moot when Abigail allows herself to become involved in Bethany's ill-advised romance. Will Lord Darlington beable to forgive Abigail this betrayal?<br />Lord Darlington has spent the past few years rescuing his family from the jaws of poverty, and he is both soul weary and bitter from the experience, especially given that all the responsibility has set up a barrier between him and the rest of his family. And then his mother brings him unwelcome news that his younger sister, Bethany, has gotten involved with a fortune-hunter while she was at school. Lady Darlington's advice is that they take Bethany to London for the Season, where it is to be hoped that the diversions of a London Season as well as new friends, will take Bethany's mind off her unfortunate 'connection.' The last thing he expected was that he would fall in love himself. However Abigail seems to have a rather serious beau already, and one that her family seems to approve wholeheartedly at that! Can Lord Darlington compete with the sober, serious Lord Fielding? <br />I couldn't decide whether or not to give this novel 3 stars or 4 -- for while I enjoyed the change in heroine-type, I did think that the plot romance was not so terribly original or different. And the last two chapters, where Abigail acts totally out of character and behaves in a really foolish and stupid way, was really stretching things just to be able to tie things up neatly and tidily. I also found that because of all the intrigue and 'backroom' machinations that revolves around Bethany and her ill-advised romance, the developing romance between Abigail and Lord Darlington sometimes got lost amidst the pages. And this really threw me -- to realise that I had finished the book and yet wouldn't be at all characterise their romance, whether it 'sparkled' or fell flat! My advice then would be to enjoy this romance novel for it's demure heroine and all the angst she goes through as she tries to juggle the expectations of her sister, Lord Darlington, Bethany, with her own desires, and to ry and forget everything else.	2002-01-13
1697830:US	52830980	R1QFWGNXKQFJ5W	078670909X	735796735	A Fine and Private Place: A Novel of Mystery	Books	3	5	5	N	N	doesn't completely satisfy	This mystery novel had everything: a sympathetic police detective and an interesting and intriguing plot set in a small old fashioned village peopled with some really interesting and eccentric characters, and yet I found myself frequently skimming through the pages -- somehow, &quot;A Fine and Private Place&quot; failed to hold my attention completely. And I have yet to fully figure out why!<br />The mystery in &quot;A Fine and Private Place&quot; takes place in Gloucestershire, in the village of Tolland, where a skeleton wearing the dogtags of an American GI is discovered buried in a field. Fifty years ago (during WWII), an American soldier, Ben Gordheimer, stationed at Tolland, was reported missing, and everyone had assumed that he had deserted, and the unfortunate young man was given a dishonourable discharge in his absence. However the discovery of the skeleton shows that everyone had rushed to judgement a little too soon. In an effort to give Gordheimer some much deserved justice, Detective Inspector Keith Tyrell and his team has been dispatched to Tolland to interview the villagers, to see if anyone knew anything about Gordheimer and the circumstances leading up to his murder. The villagers however prove to be totally uncooperative. A hunt for the men and women (esp the women) who had been alive during the war and who are still around yields nothing: everyone seems to have secrets that they would still like to keep under wraps. And then a further complication ensues when a fresh corpse in discovered buried in a grave. <br />Freda Davies did a wonderful job of bringing to life the once quiet and still insular village of Tolland. She captures the essence and feel of this village that finds itself unexpectedly and uncomfortable thrust into the limelight perfectly, especially the clash between the 'old' ways and the new -- the ingrained prejudices of old with the more modern sensibilities. And she does a wonderful job of depicting the close ties that the villagershave with each other, despite the differences in rank and wealth. The mystery was definitely an intriguing one: why was Gordheimer murdered? And why are the villagers still reluctant to talk about what happened over 50 years ago? Yet, this novel failed to hold my attention completely. Part of the reason was that, in spite of the fact that DI Tyrell was the kind of detective that all of us would really approve of -- intelligent, intuitive and compassionate -- we only get to appreciate much of his brilliant deducting second hand, as they are all done 'off-stage' so to speak. Basically Tyrell would realise something or notice something that allows him to make a brilliant deduction, but we're frequently not told what it is he's seen or realised until AFTER he's made the deduction. I was quite peeved by the time I came across this for the third time. There is also a rivalry between Tyrell and his superior of sorts, DCI Whittaker -- a ruthless and ambitious man who manages to alienate the villagers of Tolland completely. And truth to tell, I'm a little tired of this much used plot device. Everyone seems to use this. <br />Strangely enough I thought that part of the reason as to why this mystery novel was not quite so riveting a read was that almost too much happened. The mystery of who murdered the American soldier got lost at times admidst the investigation of who the 'fresh' corpse was and how he ended up being buried in the village graveyard. The pacing, as a result, was not as tight as it could have been. And too much time, I thought, taken up with the rivalry between Whittker's team and Tyrell's. &quot;A Fine and Private Place&quot; is quite a good mystery novel that can boast of an interesting plot. However it was not quite the all consuming read I was expecting it to be.	2002-01-11
1697945:US	52830980	R1YS21PFE3SC5U	0786709456	323424525	Goodnight, Sweet Prince	Books	5	16	18	N	N	fascinating and captivating reading	If you're looking for a good historical mystery that is evocative of the Victorian period with all it's dark, horrific secrets and that takes a look at the highhandedness as well as the dissolute weakness of the British monarchy, look no further: &quot;Goodnight, Sweet Prince&quot; reflects all this in spades. While not the kind of mystery novel that is full of twists and turns and red herrings, I found myself absolutely glued to the pages as I read along as the detective of this novel, Lord Francis Powerscourt, tried to unmask the murderer of Prince Eddy, eldest son to the Prince of Wales, and uncover a motive behind the killing.  <br />It's 1892 (and the 54th year of Queen Victoria's reign) when Prince Eddy is discovered murdered in his bed (he has been stabbed over and over again and died with a smile on his face) at Sandringham (the royal country house). His father, the Prince of Wales, immediately orders a cover-up, and the story is put out that the Prince had died of influenza instead. But the Prince of Wales also insists that his son's death be investigated and avenged. Lord Francis Powerscourt, a special investigator who had been initially called on to discover who was trying to blackmail the Prince of Wales, is now asked to investigate the murder instead. How was so audacious a crime carried out? Why didn't the Prince call out for help? And who wanted him dead? These are the questions that Lord Francis has to ask himself as he begins his investigation. The suspects are many and diverse, and include anyone from the anarchists to the Prince of Wales himself, who was furious at Prince Eddy for his scandalous and dissolute behaviour. And as Lord Francis follows the wispy path of gossip and innuendo, he begins to uncover such a trail of scandal and vice that even makes this very decent man begin to question what he is doing.<br />The great thing about this novel is the manner in which the plot unfolds. Davidson takes his time to set the stage -- the murder of the prince does not take place until a quarter way into the book -- but by that time he has drawn a picture of the two dissolute and arrogant princes, intent on their own pleasure, and with very little care for the feelings of others, as well as given a very good idea of the kind of person the chief investigator, Lord Francis Powerscourt, is. We see how early tragedy has touched Lord Francis's life, and how this has made him especially sensitive to the pain and sorrow in others. The pacing of this novel is flawless, and the manner in which Davidson 'fleshes' out his characters in absolutely brilliant -- with a few well chosen words and phrases, you'd swear that the very characters themselves have come alive in front of you. &quot;Goodnight, Sweet Prince&quot; is an extremely well written book, that however may not be everyone cup of tea since it deals with the scandalous and imperious behavior of royal family members that may offend some readers, esp if their royalists. But it would be a shame however to give this excellent book a miss, because it is an extremely fun read.	2002-01-11
1702197:US	52830980	RXX6S2NP660ZS	0821771000	31860555	A Devilish Husband (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	wonderful heroine couldn't save this novel	&quot;A Devilish Husband&quot; makes full use of the marrying-for-revenge plot device -- I am NOT a fan of this plot device, but I'll admit that I have come across novels where the authours have utilized this particular plot device to write some rather nifty books. This novel however is not one of those, and even the existence of a rather sympathetic heroine was not enough to rescue this particular romance novel for me.<br />In order to get back at his father for having wooed away the woman that he had intended to marry, Jared Moreland has been doing his level best to humiliate his father by leading a life of drunken debauchery. Now, however his father has demanded that he marry in order to safeguard the family line. Still angry with his father, Jared hits upon a plan to further humiliate and anger him by marrying Beatrice Crawford, the daughter of a hopeless gambler and of little social consequence. Crawford however has already married Beatrice to another gentleman of some fortune, and in no short order Jared finds himself married to Beatrice's quiet and dignified stepsister, Cassandra Wallace instead.<br />The marriage however does not start off on a good foot: a series of misunderstandings sees to it that Cassandra and Jared never get to really talk about their sudden marriage or to consummate the marriage. Having led a life of complete solitude, with only her stepfather and Beatrice for company, neither of whom she particularly cared for, Cassandra is determined to have a more fulfilling life and marriage. But then Jared informs her on the reason behind their hasty marriage, and that he has no immediate desire to father any children. Cassandra is appalled, but resolves to try and make the best of the circumstances. She is also resolved to try and make her unconventional marriage work. But this suffers a setback when the newly widowed Beatrice suddenly descends begging to be allowed to stay. In no time at all Beatrice sets up a scandalous flirtation with Jared that sets the ton agog. And Cassandra, who has stoically borne with everything so far is not sure how much more she can take, esp if Jared decides to set Beatrice up as his mistress!<br />Reading &quot;A Devilish Husband&quot; made me believe in divine intervention -- how else to explain how the self-destructive Jared could set out to perform a truly daft and stupid deed (like marrying the grasping Beatrice) but end up performing the one task that actually leads to his salvation (marrying Cassandra instead)? Except to decide that someone some where was watching out for him. And why exactly is this plot device so popular? Who in their right mind decides to marry disastrously in order to get back at someone else? To me, this was a really big flaw in the plot premise. And then there is the subplot that involved Jared's father marrying the woman that Jared believed himself to be desperately in love with. What loving father does this without any thought to his son's emotional well-being anyway?  And can he really expect his son to deal with such a betrayal in a clam and logical manner? <br />I liked the heroine of this romance novel very much: she possessed a charm and inner strength that was extremely taking. (Jared Moreland, on the other hand, is a complete idiot.) It was easy to empathize with Cassandra and to fully enter into her feelings and reservations. But even this very pleasing heroine, together with Alana Clayton's superior writing style and superb character developments, was not enough to allow me to get past this (in my opinion anyway) rather unrealistic plot premise.	2002-01-08
1706578:US	52830980	RI5X78PQUQ0V4	0821771809	229635486	His Heart's Delight (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	an engaging read	&quot;His Heart's Delight&quot; by Mary Blayney is the first book in a projected series that features the romantic ups and downs of the Braedon family. And the hero of this first book in the series is Morgan Braedon, the younger son of a marquis (a rather dark and dour individual who has managed to not only keep his entire family at arm's length but to also maim them emotionally as well). The novel opens with Morgan being told that he has to find a wife by the Season's end, or else lose all financial support from his father. And since Morgan is a man of very little money, and who makes his way as a gambler, such a threat would definitely make his life more difficult than it already is. So Morgan comes up with a plan to find a young woman who would be willing to enter into a sham courtship with him. And this is where Miss Christina Lambert comes into the picture.<br />Christina is in London to make her debut into London society along with her elder (and more quiet by nature) sister. However Christina, a rather bubbly and flirtatious young lady, is no ordinary young debutante: she is actually engaged to her childhood sweetheart, Richard Wilton, who is currently serving with Wellington's forces in the Peninsula. Christina's parents however want to keep the engagement secret for the time being, and will only agree to making this engagement official after Christina has had her Season. Christina's dilemma then is how to enjoy a Season, to dance and flirt, without raising the hopes of any eligible bachelors. An innocent dance with Morgan leads to a whole slew of gossip, but which allows both parties to realise that they can each help the other achieve their means: Morgan will have his sham courtship, and Christina will have a male escort who has no expectations that she will reciprocate his feelings. However the more time the couple spends with each other, the more they both come to the private conclusion that they were meant for each other. But what of the complication that comes in the shape of Richard Wilton?<br />The test of a really well written book in my opinion is if the characters and plot engage the reader whether or not you take to the primary characters. And I was definitely engrossed with the on-goings in this novel. In spite of the fact that Christina Lambert is not really the type of heroine that I usually take to -- she's a little too flirty, stubborn and supremely sure of herself for my taste -- I found myself becoming totally involved in the quandary she found herself in, and rooting for to make the right decision. (In fact, I wouldn't at all mind reading a novel featuring a much, much older Christina, to see if she's still the same stubborn, supremely-sure-that-her-opinions-and- notions-are-the-right-ones woman, and how her children deal with this managing aspect of her character!) Mary Blayney did a wonderful job of depicting Christina's confusion over her conflicting feelings for Richard and Morgan. And while Morgan Breadeon belonged to the tortured hero club that we're all vastly familiar with, I thought that Blayney did a wonderful job of depicting the dilemma he faced when he realises that Christina was exactly the kind of young lady he would want to spend his life with. Blayney also did a wonderful of bringing to life the secondary characters in this novel and making us care for them -- Christina's elder sister, Joanna, for example. I also enjoyed the interaction between the sisters, which allowed us to see not only the deep and affectionate bond between them but also allows us to better understand their characters, and which makes this novel a more substantial read as well more richly textured. Another aspect of this novel that I really liked was the pacing. Blayney does a really good job here -- nothing was rushed, and events unfolded and came to the right conclusion at exactly the right rate. <br />All in all, &quot;His Heart's Delight&quot; is quite the enjoyable read -- entertaining and engrossing, and one that I would have no trouble recommending.	2002-01-05
1708703:US	52830980	R2GPPXFR7UCD0Q	0312979541	177192333	The Bridal Veil	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A very satisfying read!	\\"The Bridal Veil\\" is an enjoyable and feel good historical romance that is bound to bring a sigh of satisfaction to most readers. Normally, I don't read historical romances set in the America, as I'm ashamed to admit, my knowledge of American history is extremely spotty. But I did enjoy \\"The Bridal Veil\\" very much, and given my limited familiarity with the material, felt that Alexis Harrington has done a wonderful job in evoking the feel and realities of what is was like to live in a homestead in Oregon in the 19th century.<br />Luke Becker needs a wife. When his beautiful wife, Belinda, passed away three years ago, his cantankerous mother-in-law, Cora, moved in to help him raise his eleven year old daughter, Rose. But Cora seems to be spoiling Rose and Rose has changed from an affectionate and happy child into a sullen and morose one. Luke's hope is that the influence of a nice and intelligent woman will affect Rose for the better, and since there is no one in his small town that he wants to marry, Luke puts an advertisement in a newspaper for a bride. A Miss Alyssa Cannon from Chicago answers his advertisement, and net result is that Luke asks her to come to Oregon to be his wife. <br />What actually happens however is that Alyssa's elder sister, Emily arrives in Alyssa's stead. Alyssa had been killed in a street accident, and with no one and nothing to hold her in Chicago, Emily impulsively decides to take her place, especially when she reads Luke's latest letter imploring her to come at once. Will Luke be willing to accept tall and plain Emily as a substitute bride for that beautiful one he was expecting? Luke has no choice: his desperately needs help in raising his daughter, and so decides to marry Emily after all. And now Emily has the difficult task of trying to be a mother and friend to a difficult child, a wife and helpmate to Luke, and of trying to ignore all of Cora's cruel gibes as well as undo all the harm that her poisonous presence has wrought. Will she succeed?<br />While Alexis Harrington does a wonderful job of bringing to life Luke and Emily's budding romance, and a really good job in charting the friendship and affection that develops between Emily and Rose, the last two chapters however felt incredibly rushed. I, for one, would have liked it better if there had been a more detailed account of Cora's comeuppance, esp since she initiates a rather cruel plan in order to wrest Rose from Luke's care. I also think that the authour did a wonderful job of fleshing out the characters of all the major players in this story -- the pain and angst that Emily, Luke, Rose and even Cora feels is deftly related and resonates through the pages. And even though I disliked Cora immensely, I did find myself feeling sympathetic towards her because she was quite unable to let go of all the anger and pain she felt because of her daughter's untimely death. <br />\\"The Bridal Veil\\" is wonderfully romantic tale of how a young woman who feared that she would never find love, and a young widower who desperately needed to be loved, find lasting love and acceptance in each other.  Definitely a romance novel worth recommending.	2002-01-04
1712311:US	52830980	R3BVI4G4NH1MB8	0821771744	96760680	A Guardian's Angel (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	quite a fun read	&quot;A Guardian's Angel&quot; is a rather enjoyable read and boasts of a plot involving a rather beautiful, sensible and intelligent companion (Angela Needham), a trio a charming youngsters, and two noblemen who are enemies and neighbours. <br />Angela Needham has been hired by the Duke of Oslington to help prepare his ward, Leonia Sutton for her London debut. And while the duke proves to be distant and austere, his wards (Leonia and her brother, Thomas, and younger sister, Esther) prove to be warm, friendly and quite charming. In no time at all, Angela finds herself becoming deeply involved in the lives of the Sutton siblings, especially so when it turns out that Thomas has been sneaking off to spend time with the duke's neighbour and enemy, Lord Harrington, who to Angela's surprise turns out to be completely charming and attractive. She discovers that there is some kind of disagreement between the two men who were once close friends, but neither will talk about their falling out. And the more time she spends with Lord Harrington, the more deeply Angela finds herself falling for him. But the duke has demanded that she have nothing to do with him. What can a poor companion do when her employer decrees that she ignore the promptings of her heart?<br />On the whole this was a rather well written novel that also has the advantage of possessing a rather intelligent and sensible heroine as well. I had only two problems with this novel: 1) Angela and Lord Harrington begin to address each other by their first names soon after their initial meeting. This is really not in concordance with the manners of the period. And 2) the manner in which the duke's character was developed. The duke's character sort of swung between being a domestic tyrant and being quite heroic and intelligent. I rather liked the duke (in fact I liked him quite a bit better than I did Lord Harington) and sympathised with the problems he faced, but even I was dismayed at quite a few of the duke's decisions and actions.<br />&quot;A Guardian's Angel&quot; is quite an engrossing read that, I think, should generate quite a bit of fun -- the plot and characters are engaging (even if the ending and Lord Harrington's conversion to good sense was extremely convenient), and except for the two niggling points I raised, was quite an enjoyable read.	2002-01-01
1712694:US	52830980	R3GY171FBTMILK	0451204832	789512299	The Marriage Masquerade (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	1	3	N	N	contrived plot spoils this romance novel	The trouble with &quot;The Marriage Masquerade&quot; is that it has the feel of having been written in fits and starts -- the novel does not unfold smoothly, and far too much time is spent on setting the stage for the sudden marriage between Lady Lucianne Gordon and Lord Victor Oxenby, that the second half of the novel that dealt with the couple's coming to terms with their marriage and each other felt really rushed.<br />After a very public slanging match with her fiance, Jerome Holden, Lady Lucianne Gordon finds herself single again and the center of some rather unwelcome gossip. Since this would be her fourth season, and her prospects of reeling in another eligible bachelor seems remarkably slim given her sudden notoriety, Lucianne's godmother, Queen Charlotte (yes, the Queen of England no less) comes up with a plan to try and restore her goddaughter's reputation by holding a masquerade ball that would focus on Lucianne's many charms and talents. It's a very contrived plot that seemed to me (anyway) to be full of loopholes -- also the Queen's actual objectives were murky at best. But anyway, Lucianne is proclaimed Lady of the Masquerade and Lord Oxenby (a close friend of the Queen's and best friend to Lucianne's brother, although there is a distinct coolness between Oxenby and Lucianne because of a past incident), the Lord of the Masquerade. In a twist of events which involves another public altercation with Jerome Holden at the ball, Lucianne finds herself married to Lord Oxenby in order to save her reputation and her family's fortunes (her father has rather conveniently lost much of his fortune). But can this forced marriage work? <br />Many years ago, Lord Oxenby overheard Lucianne and her friends being rather frivolous and cruel about scarred and maimed people. Lucianne was of course embarrassed but Lord Oxenby was really hurt by her callous attitude (Lord Oxenby had been maimed and scarred in a riding accident), esp since he had always nurtured a rather warmregard/attraction/desire for Lucianne. And so he took her rejection of him rather badly, and the two have not been friendly at all since then. And now they are married, and Lord Oxenby comes to realise that he is still enamored with Lucianne. But what exactly are her feelings for him? Does their marriage have any chance of success? Or will he have to settle for a life time with a woman who is repulsed by his scars and disability?<br />Part of the problem with this novel was that much of the plot was rather weak and contrived. Lucianne's quarrel with her erstwhile fiance for example -- his character is only properly explained towards the end of the book. So that while I understood her frustration with him, her very public screaming match seemed (at first) a rather over the top response to his perverse behaviour. Also the reasons why Lucianne had to suddenly marry seemed terribly contrived to me. Oxenby sees the Queen's plotting as brilliant; I on the other hand thought it was one of the feeblest plots I had ever come across! And then there was the bit at the ball, in which Lucianne motions to a tired Oxenby to sit down next to the Queen. I don't think this could have happened as I seem to remember that Queen Charlotte was a rather starched up individual who placed a high premium on etiquette and protocol. Never would she have allowed those not of royal blood to sit in her presence. In fact there is a rather well known anecdote of how she made a very pregnant courtier stand throughout a never ending concert in spite of the poor lady's condition! So that the likelihood of her allowing Lucianne and Oxenby to sit with her is practically nonexistent. Another problem with the novel was the manner in which Lucianne's character is built up, and the manner in which the authour contrasted her less likeable past behaviour with her current one. But this contrast is seen through Oxenby's eyes, so that we've no way of knowing if his view is the right one or if he's just being prejudiced. <br />I must say that I was rather surprised with this novel. Usually Teresa DesJardien writes a rather delightful and appealing tale -- like &quot;The Misfit Marquess&quot; for example. But this novel seemed, to me at least, not to possess the finesse that DesJardien usually exhibits. I liked the bits that dealt with Oxenby and Lucianne learning to deal with each other and getting accustomed to being married, and really wished that there had been more of that instead of the rather feeble setting the ground for the forced marriage in the first half of the book.	2002-01-01
1713141:US	52830980	R1W8OWS2SG0HD2	0373291914	829285409	My Lady'S Trust	Books	3	11	12	N	N	a very familiar plot premise	There is nothing terribly new of different about the plot or characters in &quot;My Lady's Trust&quot; by Julia Justiss. This does not mean that it is a bad book. To the contrary this romance novel is actually rather well written. It's just that when I'm really familiar with the plot and story development, I tend to dwell on all the things that irk and make no sense to me. And this is of course not very fair to the novel (or authour) at all.<br />In &quot;My Lady's Trust&quot; we have a heroine, Laura Martin, who possesses a dark secret, is on the run and who is living in hiding in a small secluded village where she makes her living as the village's herb woman. A hunting accident involving the Earl of Beaulieu's younger brother throws Laura into this very wealthy nobleman's path. And while she would like nothing better than to have nothing to do with the earl and his family, esp given that she is very much afraid that he will discover her true identity and so bring danger back into her life, she cannot ignore his plea to help his brother. Meanwhile the earl is quite taken with the enigmatic and beautiful Laura Martin, who is so reclusive and so wary. Exactly what is so attractive and charming a woman doing hiding in such a secluded area? He resolves to discover her secrets, even as he resolves to breach her defenses and contract a brief liaison with her. But the more he gets to know Laura the more he appreciates her beauty, with and intelligence, and soon falls rather hard for her. But can this relationship go anywhere esp given that Laura still refuses to trust him or share her secrets with him?<br />Here's what irked with about this novel: why is it that no matter how urbane and sophisticated and intelligent the hero is, he always seems (at first) not to take into account what his determined pursuit of the young woman in question would do to the woman's reputation? I keep coming across this lack of concern over and over again in many romance novels, and I must sayit usually makes me dislike the hero immensely -- I'm one of the unfashionable few who prefers that hero be thoughtful and kind instead of masterful and spoilt. The only thing that seems to matter to the hero is his desire for the heroine. Given that at this point he has no desire to marry her, and only has a temporary liaison in mind, his callous disregard for her reputation really irks. In &quot;My Lady's Trust&quot; both the village squire and the vicar have to warn the very irate earl about creating a scandal with Laura, before he considers the impropriety of his actions. And I found it very hard to believe that the earl needed to be reminded about the consequences of his actions where Laura was concerned. A more thoughtful hero would have considered this aspect of things from the very beginning! <br />And then there is the manner in which the earl decides to resolve Laura's problems by finding the man that she is hiding form and confronting him about his past behaviour towards her and threatening him to leave her alone, thereby alerting him to the fact that she is still alive and putting her in harm's way again. This, we're supposed to believe is the only solution that the powerful earl could come up with? It made very little sense. And then there is the whole notion that one could obtain a 'quick and quiet' divorce is Regency England. Divorces at the time were extremely rare and could only be obtained only after a somewhat messy and public trial, involving one spouse accusing the other of certain crimes and lots of scandal. And few people ever recovered their social reputations after having pursued such a (for the time) notorious course of action. So that the whole concept of a quiet divorce in the early 19th century would be an oxymoron.<br />I am actually not being very fair to this novel. Julia Justiss has created a very sympathetic heroine in Laura Martin, and I couldn't help but get involved with her problems and fears. I wanted to find a way out of thehorrifying position that she was in, and rooted for her to find a measure of peace and happiness. It's just that those three points that I raised got to me, most especially the one about heroes who always seem to have momentary pleasure in mind at someone else's expense. &quot;My Lady's Trust&quot; is really not a bad read, and I probably would have liked it a lot more if I hadn't spent the previous week watching A&amp;E's rebroadcast of &quot;Pride and Prejudice&quot; as well as rereading all six of her novels again. So here's my recommendation: enjoy this novel for it's heroine, Laura Martin, as she truly makes this novel worth reading.	2002-01-01
1724260:US	52830980	RHMORKYJWCZXD	0441008712	428996947	Lady Pain	Books	5	17	17	N	N	rounds off the Gil tirlogy nicely	Twenty years ago, unwilling hero Tigrallef faced the power known as the Lady in Gil, and not so much defeated it as absorbed it. And every day since that fateful one, Tig valiantly fights the power that is inside him, preventing it from escaping and unleashing its might against the world. And while this power inside Tig keeps him young, and relatively free of diseases, it also seems to be eating away at Tig's soul, making him less and less human each day. Now, Tig and his family and friends travel around the world looking for the spell of banishment that will for once and for all defeat the power, before it gets the better of Tig and destroys the world. The quest to find this spell however has taken quite a toll on everyone; Tig's daughter Kat, in particular, is not sure of how much more she can take. And then Tig comes to the realisation that the spell he is so desperately searching for is in Gil. But that means entering the lion's den again and facing danger and old enemies. Will Tig's old enemy, the Primate, recognise Tig after all these years? No one (except Tig) is keen to make for Gil, but what if the spell is there after all? Can they afford to overlook the possibility? Wary and worried, Tig and company make for Gil...<br />&quot;Lady Pain&quot; does not quite possess as wry and droll a tone as the first two books in the trilogy, &quot;Lady in Gil&quot; and &quot;Scion's Lady,&quot; mainly because, as other reviewers have pointed out, this installment of the trilogy is told completely from Tig's son, Vero's, point-of-view. Years of watching out for Tig, especially given Tig has a rather naive and scholastic approach to things, has made Vero assume a more authoritative role toward his father than a son may ordinarily have done. Rebecca Bradley does a wonderful job of portraying this flip side of a father-son relationship, as well as Kat's (Tig's daughter) leery relationship with her father. This difficulty that Tig's children face in their dealings with theirfather, colours the tone of &quot;Lady Pain&quot; and makes it a much darker book. It also explains why the wry and droll tone is not always there. However, having noted that I do think that &quot;Lady Pain&quot; does compare well to the first two books in the trilogy. The story is an interesting, compelling and exciting one, that will definitely keep you riveted till the very end. The pacing is tight and the manner in which the plot flowed, seamless. I've enjoyed all three books in the series, and thought that &quot;Lady Pain&quot; rounded off things nicely -- it was nice to see familiar characters from &quot;The Lady in Gil&quot; again. Rebecca Bradley is a brilliant authour and has a wonderful prose style. All three books in this series are going on my 'must have' list. I do hope that Bradley writes more sci-fantasy books and that they get published soon!	2001-12-21
1724584:US	52830980	R2I81BL0PHUGTC	0312284322	27279285	Echoes of Lies	Books	5	14	15	N	N	a very challenging read	&quot;Echoes of Lies&quot; by Jo Bannister is a very challenging book to read. At least it was for me. From very nearly the beginning, Bannister challenged every concept I had on the notions of justice, law, retribution and forgiveness. Jo Bannister really pushed the envelop with this novel.<br />The plot has already been reviewed rather well, and to discuss it any more would give away plot developments that could spoil things for those who haven't yet read this 'must read' novel. So, I'll stick to what I liked about &quot;Echoes of Lies.&quot; The solution to the criminal act of who tortured Daniel Hood, and why is resolved a quarter way through the book. This leads private detective Brodie Farrell and Daniel to another crime and another innocent whose life is at stake. And the identity of the mastermind behind that crime was quite easy to guess as well. No, it's not the crimes or how Daniel and Brodie arrive at the solutions of these crimes that makes this book such compelling reading, but rather the manner in which Bannister makes the reader examine concepts such as punishment of the crime, justice, retribution and revenge. Daniel, the victim of torture, is a character that many will seldom come across, whether in fiction or in real life. The question that nagged at me while I read this book -- is Daniel doing the right thing? -- haunted me even after I had finished the book. This is a book that makes you think and question the accepted social mores about justice and retribution. And is what ultimately makes &quot;Echoes of Lies&quot; such compelling reading.<br />Bannister did an excellent job in the pacing and execution of the novel -- each new development in the mystery led to an even deeper one. And I liked the manner in which Bannister made each new incident development in the mystery result in the 'fleshing out' of characters as well as insights into their motives. <br />&quot;Echoes in Lies&quot; is an excellent read. I finished the book in one go -- I simply couldn't put it down. It's not quite the traditional mystery novel, but is a great read nonetheless. Here's my advice: run (don't walk) to your nearest library/bookstore and get this book!	2001-12-21
1733105:US	52830980	R3G095MR5ANP8L	0821771221	816559039	A Most Suitable Duchess (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	basic plot is a much used one but  book is still a good read	&quot;A Most Suitable Duchess&quot; is a pleasant enough read if you're not already familiar with this plot premise, otherwise this novel could be a little disappointing as the authour does not deviate very much from the basic storyline.<br />Marcus Heywood, the new Duke of Torringford, needs to marry before his thirtieth birthday so that he can inherit the fortune left by the previous duke -- he will need this fortune in order to run his newly inherited estates. While drunk, he and his younger brother pen an advertisement for a wife; unfortunately there is a mix-up and the advertisement ends up being printed in all the Edinburgh newspapers. Elsewhere, Penelope Hastings is beginning to realise that she may not be able to continue living with her older brother, James, especially now that he is courting a rather nasty young lady, Amelia Carstairs. Penelope, a bluestocking and (she thinks) a confirmed spinster, has been running James's house for many years now, and lately things have become rather uncomfortable, esp since Amelia has been doing her very best to drive a wedge between James and Penelope. Spitefully, Amelia answers Marcus's advertisement in Penelope's name, and in the ensuing scandal that breaks, Penelope and Marcus come to the realisation that for the sake of both their reputations, they will have to marry. Will a marriage that began in such an ill propitious manner have any chance of flourishing? Can an Edinburgh bluestocking and a country gentleman find enough things in common so as to be able to make a match of things? <br />I'm probably not being very fair to this novel, as it is an extremely well written one. I especially liked the bits that dealt with Penelope and Marcus getting to know each other, finding things that they liked about each other, and coming to grips with running a ducal estate. I thought that both characters were well developed, and I liked the seamless manner in which the novel 'flowed.' It's just that this is s rather popular plotdevice -- two strangers forced to marry because of circumstances -- and it would have been nice if there had been a few plot twists that would have made this novel a little less run-of-the-mill. All, in all, &quot;A Most Suitable Duchess&quot; is a pleasant enough read, and should satisfy, esp if you can overlook the fact that it does possess a rather over used plot premise.	2001-12-14
1733619:US	52830980	RGEZZ63G2UAZN	0741406993	464718661	First Season	Books	3	3	4	N	N	good read but characters need a little more depth	&quot;First Season&quot; by Gloria Gay could actually be subtitled 'Pride and Prejudice' -- as the plot centers on the prejudices of the heroine of the romance, Fantine Delmere, and the pride of hero, the Earl of Ashcom.<br />Briefly then: for almost a century, the Delmeres have been under the care of the Earls of Ashcom. The current Earl would like to end the practice, but has indolently allowed for things to slide. And then he receives a letter from Mr. Delmere (a wasteful gambler), extolling the beauty of his daughter, Fantine, and asking the earl to foot the bill for her London debut. The earl makes for Evergreen (the estate at which he has installed the Delmeres): it is his intent to put a stop to Delmere's demands, but upon reaching Evergreen, he is treated to Fantine's scorn. Fantine Delmere is truly an extraordinarily beautiful young woman, but she is also a very angry young woman as well. Tired of being dependents of the earl, as well as the rather scornful treatment that her family has always received form the earl's family, and appalled by her father's crass desire to make use of her beauty in order to advance the family's fortunes, Fantine is furious that the earl has fallen in with her father's plans for her, without having given a thought for her needs and feelings. and when she finally meets the earl, she roundly lets him have it -- no holds barred! The earl of course is furious at being told off by a young lady who should by rights be trying to win his favour, and maliciously agrees with Fantine's father to give Fantine her season is London. Fantine is appalled with what her impetuous anger is wrought, and is rightly nervous about having to live under the earl's roof and care while she is in London, esp when, once calmer, she comes to see that much of her anger against the earl is misplaced. But the earl refuses to accept her apologies or to soften his attitude towards her. Can Fantine deal with the shallowness of the haut ton as well as the contemptwith which the earl seems to hold her? Can she change his mind about her? Or will the earl nurse his grievance against her for her entire stay?<br />&quot;First Season&quot; is quite an entertaining read. Given that the plot is a rather run-of-the-mill one, it was a shame that the synopsis at the back of the book gave away the one thing that made this novel interesting: the fact that someone wanted Fantine removed from the London scene, and that this person would do anything to achieve this end. Like the reviewer at Huntress Book Reviews, I liked Gay's trio of villains immensely. They were truly brilliant, and reminded me of the kinds of villains one usually reads of in 18th century French novels. I also liked the heroine of this romance novel quite a bit too, esp in the second half of the novel, where she displayed remarkable courage in the face of everything that had happened to her. However this novel did have a couple of flaws that made no sense given that it was a novel about the Regency period in England; for example, Fantine unrealistic impression at the beginning of the novel that either her father or the earl would consult her about her future and her wishes. This, truly rarely happened. Also, the British police force had not yet been established at this time. Another problem I felt was that many of the characters could have done with more development -- in fact, Fantine's character is the only one that is really developed well, while I thought that the earl's character could have done with more 'fleshing out.' And because of this, the romance that develops between the two main characters did not always ring true. It would have made more sense if the couple had spent more time together in the first half of the book, before they realised that they were attracted to and drawn to each other. Other than that, &quot;First Season&quot; was quite the pleasant read. The language is quite modern but, fortunately, not overwhelmingly so. So here's my take: enjoy thisnovel for it's heroine and for it's trio of villains.	2001-12-13
1733713:US	52830980	R2A1TZUAPLCR98	031287894X	105070466	The Slaying of the Shrew (Shakespeare & Smythe Mystery)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	an engrossing and brilliant read	One would think that having succeeded in his quest to come to London and to actually finding work with the Queen's Men (a couple of walk on roles so far), and having met the love of his life, Elizabeth Darcie, Symington Smythe, affectionately known as 'Tuck,' would be over the moon. You'd be quite wrong. To begin with his lady love is the only daughter and heiress to her father's considerable wealth, and much as Henry Darcie is grateful to Tuck for all that he's done for both him and Elizabeth (faithfully chronicled in &quot;A Mystery of Errors&quot;), he's not likely to allow Tuck to court Elizabeth, especially given that Tuck is a struggling actor. And here we come to the crux of Tuck's real woes: after having gone through so much in order to realise his dreams of becoming an actor, Tuck discover to his chagrin that he lacks the necessary talent to become a truly valuable player of any company!<br />As the plot of &quot;The Slaying of the Shrew&quot; opens, the plague has hit London, and most companies are taking to the road because the playhouses are being closed. This is not a usually profitable season for the players, but fortunately for the Queen's Men they have asked to perform at the country house of a rich merchant, Godfrey Middleton, at his eldest daughter's wedding celebrations. And Tuck is relieved to discover that he has been included group of players that will be going to Middleton's estate, even if it is not as a player. However his relief is tempered because of a falling out he has with Elizabeth over the role of women and the unhappy situations that many of them find themselves in. Dejected with the manner in which they last parted, Tuck keeps an eye out for Elizabeth when he arrives at Middleton's estate (she is to part of the bride party), and when he spies her in the garden, he follows her and overhears two men planning to con Middleton's younger daughter, Blanche, into marriage. Tuck is all for blowing the whistle, but his friend, William Shakespeare, cautions him against it, pointing out that Tuck actually knows very little of the actual plot at all.  And then tragedy strikes when the bride suddenly dies before she can take her vows. Did she die because of some malady, or was she poisoned as Shakespeare believes? Were the two men that Tuck overheard responsible for the unfortunate girl's death? And why is Elizabeth behaving so very, very cagily? Tuck is determined to find the answers to all these questions.<br />&quot;The Slaying of the Shrew&quot; is a tremendously fun read. From the title, and because we're all familiar with Shakespeare's &quot;The Taming of the Shrew,&quot; I'll not be revealing any plot spoilers by stating that the Middleton bride gets murdered. After that point in the mystery however, Simon Hawke does a wonderful job of keeping the reader's attention with plot twists, tight pacing and a brilliantly executed story. I enjoyed &quot;The Slaying of the Shrew&quot; a lot better than I did &quot;A Mystery of Errors,&quot; and if this mystery novel is anything to go by, future Tuck and Shakespeare mysteries should make this a series to read and collect! I especially like the manner in which Hawke has incorporated bits form Shakespeare's plays into these mysteries; and I like the bits that deal with the history of the Elizabethan theatre and the personages involved at the time.<br />Definitely one of the better mystery novels of the year.	2001-12-13
1734452:US	52830980	R2056RCG3PHODT	1567921760	468720089	Champagne Kisses, Cyanide Dreams	Books	4	2	2	N	N	a fun read	If you like mystery novels about celebrities, then &quot;Champagne Kisses, Cyanide Dreams&quot; should, on the whole, satisfy. The mystery unfolds mostly on the island of Martha's vineyard, at one of Mildred Silk's coveted dinner parties. Martha Silk is a rather poisonous but powerful writer and hostess, and most people take great care to stay on her good side. So that when Martha throws a dinner party to celebrate the publication of her latest tell all book, the dinner guests are understandably nervous and curious. Not Jason Alexander however. A rich and indolent young man, Jason has been invited to fill-in for an unavoidably detained guest. He's sure that this is going to be a dinner to remember and dine out on, and he's proved right when Mildred Silk keels over while sipping her after dinner drink. The cause of death proves to cyanide poisoning, and the police believe that the motive was to stop Mildred's book from being published. This would make nearly every single guest at the ill fated dinner suspects in the murder. And when the suspects themselves start dying one after the other, Jason enthusiastically throws himself into the pursuit of cyanide murderer.<br />Ralph Graves droll and wry writing manner alone makes this novel worth reading. Mystery wise, it's a rather straight forward read with very few twists and turns and red herrings. And I found myself missing the old-fashioned 'grilling' of the suspects for dirt -- esp in a mystery novel about celebrities, some of that might have been rather fun. However, I did enjoy reading this novel very much.	2001-12-13
1740516:US	52830980	R2TZL4W0QBIVVJ	042518272X	829498483	Truffled Feathers (Culinary Food Writer)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	a fun read	Budding food columnist (amateur sleuth) Carolyn Blue finds herself knee deep in another murder mystery -- this time in New York City. And while &quot;Truffled Feathers&quot; is not as quirky as &quot;Crime Brulee,&quot; this second Carolyn Blue murder mystery is as interesting and as engrossing as the first.<br />The Blues have come to New York on business: Jason is being recruited by Hodge, Brune and Byerson for a consultancy gig, while Carolyn has an appointment to meet her agent (face-to-face) for the first time. And while Jason is looking forward to his interview, Carolyn is girding herself to let her agent know that she has no desire to write the book on New Orleans culinary delights, esp because of the traumatic memories attached to that trip. However minutes after landing in the city, they learn that the head of research and development who had been responsible fore recruiting Jason, Max Heydemann, had keeled over and died over a pastrami sandwich. (Actually he was murdered in a manner that suggests a professional hit.) The Blues are shaken, and things at Hodge, Brune &amp; Byerson seem to be especially tense. Gossip reveals that while Max was well liked by nearly everyone, he was hated by his ex-wife and children. And then Jason discovers that there have been some rather shady goings-on at H, B &amp; B, that Max was investigating. Could that have been the reason why Max was murdered? Jason leans towards that theory, and determined to keep Carolyn from getting herself entangled in another murder mystery, he starts poking around H, B &amp; B hoping to unmask a killer. In the meantime, Carolyn is lunching with the wives of H, B &amp; B and picking up all kinds of gossip that leads her to suspect Max's neurotic ex-wife and his poisonous children of having offed him. Who is right: Jason or Carolyn? Both the Blues are determined to get to the bottom of this perplexing mystery.<br />While &quot;Truffled Feathers&quot; did not have quite the same wry tone that &quot;Crime Brulee&quot; did, it was still an entertaining read. I think that Nancy Fairbanks did a rather good job at capturing the tone and essence of New York City; I also liked the manner in which she portrayed the different scientists at H, B &amp; B, as well as those she ran into in the publishing world. And for a mystery novel that was divided into two different narratives -- since both Carolyn and Jason were independently investigating Max's murder, but from different angles -- the book unfolded smoothly and flawlessly. <br />&quot;Truffled Feathers&quot; is a fun read: Fairbanks has peopled this mystery novel with enough eccentric and shady characters and red herring plots that should keep any avid mystery readers happily guessing for a couple of hours. I liked her first novel, and her second one has proved to be as good. This series is shaping up to be a rather drool and fun one, and one that is worth recommending.	2001-12-08
1740659:US	52830980	RF60OVCNL0E2G	0451204735	890319899	Labor of Love (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	a captivating tale of unexpected love	Olivia Beresford married once for love, and as a result of her husband's profligate and uncaring ways, she's now a homeless and penniless widow, eight months pregnant, and has to somehow think of a way to support not only her unborn child and herself, but her younger sister, and aunt as well!<br />On their way to their aunt's cottage, Olivia contemplates her unfortunate state of affairs, and decides that since marrying for love has brought her nothing but woe, she was going to marry for money and security the next time. But of course she's going to have to wait until after she had given birth, and regained her looks. An angry storm and an accident however, cause Olivia, and her sister Susannah to seek shelter at the estate of the notorious Viscount Sheldrake, who rumour has it, got away with murdering his stepfather. The sisters are wary and cautious about being forced to seek hospitality from such a man, but Sheldrake's kindness and courtesy causes them to rethink their previous assumption that he is a vicious murderer. For Olivia especially this sudden stay at Sheldrake Hall is proving serendipitous, as Sheldrake is exactly the kind of gentleman she would like to be married to: kind, thoughtful, handsome and rich. If only she could discover if there is any substance to the rumours that he is a murderer! Otherwise, how can she afford to place the well-being of her unborn child as well as that of her sister and her aunt in Sheldrake's hands?<br />&quot;Labor of Love&quot; was a rather enjoyable read. Jenna Mindel did a wonderful job of portraying the inner turmoil that both Olivia and Sheldrake face -- Olivia wondering if she should ignore all the rumours and follow the promptings of her heart, and Sheldrake torn between his desire for Olivia and his need to keep the events surounding his stepfather's death secret. I'll admit however, that while I admired Olivia for her good sense in wanting to know more before she committed herself and her family into Sheldrake's care, I did get a little impatient for her lack of trust. Which was not really fair to Olivia: I had the advantage of knowing that this was a romance novel and that Sheldrake was the hero after all! <br />&quot;Labor of Love&quot; is a rather romantic novel that tells of how two scarred souls find love and solace in each other. Both Olivia and Sheldrake are prefect foils for each other in character and temperament, and it made for satisfying reading to watch them overcome all the obstacles in their path and find happiness. A truly satisfying read.	2001-12-08
1742878:US	52830980	R2P2HR6ZTNIDOE	0451204824	289469658	One Good Turn (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	46	50	N	N	a briiliant sequel to &quot;Libby's London Merchant&quot;	After the events chronicled in &quot;Libby's London Merchant&quot; you just knew that it would take a very special lady to make Benedict Nesbitt, the Duke of Knareborough forget Libby Ames. And indeed the heroine of &quot;One Good Turn&quot; is a truly a very extraordinary lady.<br />The Duke of Knaresborough is trying (but not really succeeding) very hard to come to terms with the fact that Libby Ames has not only rejected him, but has found happiness with her splendid but ordinary husband, Dr. Cook. In an effort to take his mind of Libby and his current unhappiness, the duke has agreed to take his young neice to his country estate so that she will not contract chickenpox form her infant brother. However while on the road, the duke discovers to his horror that his niece has contracted chickenpox after all, and he's not sure if he can cope with a sick, fractious child. Fortunately for the duke, Miss Liria Valencia and her young five year old son appear on the scene. And although he takes Liria to be no more than a Spanish camp follower, who had given birth out of wedlock, her ability to deal with the crisis at hand and her calm manner impresses the duke no end, and impulsively he offers her a job as his housekeeper. The more contact he has with Liria, the more he is intrigued by her. Who is this mysterious Spanish woman who seems more than able to run a duke's household and who possesses the dignity and demeanor of one far above her station? What brought to England? And why does she refuse to return to Spain? Ever curious, the duke sets out to discover the secrets that Liria harbors in order to help a lady who is becoming of increasing importance to him.<br />I know that I've said this about quite a few Regency romance novels lately, but this time it's really true: this is a romance novel that is out of the ordinary! After a steady diet of flirty heroines and rakish heroes, this book was a novel experience. Liria is certainly unlike most heroines that one would expect from a Signet Regency romance novel: she's a heroine that has had a truly hard and horrendous past (her war experiences do not make for easy reading), but who because of her inner strength and indomitable spirit, managed to survive. Some readers may find this novel a little disappointing, because romance-wise, not much happens until the last two chapters. The bulk of the book deals with the duke coming to terms with himself -- his strengths, his weaknesses, his inner demons, and how he wants to go on; as well as the mystery that surrounds Liria. It's a sobering book, as well as a cathartic one -- it runs the gamut from pain and horror to tears and joy. This is definitely a romance novel for readers who need some substance to their 'cream cake' romance diet. <br />Personally, I loved this novel, and will be holding on to it for some time.	2001-12-06
1744428:US	52830980	R11EJPL24PN5JI	0821768530	4625835	A Townhouse For Tessa (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	a pleasant read	The first book in a quartet that features four sisters, &quot;A Townhouse for Tessa&quot; is a pleasant enough read that focuses on a young woman who successfully maps out a new life for herself and comes into her own. <br />Upon her beloved grandmother's death, Tessa Lockhard discovers that she was adopted at birth. The only clue to her identity is a beautiful pendant, a 15 year old letter from her mother, explaining why she had had Tessa adopted instead of sending her to relatives -- Tessa's mother was dying of consumption, and her hardhearted maternal grandfather had turned his back on his only daughter for marrying against his will -- and an equally old letter from the vicar who placed her telling her to go to London in order to claim her inheritance.<br />Upon hearing that Tessa is an adopted child, and that she has no real clue as to her 'real' identity, Tessa's nasty fiance breaks off their engagement, and her erstwhile aunt by marriage not only refuses to release Tessa's bequest from her adopted grandmother, but she also practically throws Tessa out on the streets. Determined to discover more of her background, Tessa makes for London, where she learns that she has aristocratic claims after all: her maternal grandmother was the Countess of Kirkwood, and has left Tessa a townhouse. Soon, Tessa finds herself settling into London life. She makes new and more worthy friends, especially the publisher and editor of a witty political magazine, 'The On-Dit,' Harry Fallbrook. Harry proves to be everything that her erstwhile fiance was not: witty, clever, kind and honest. But Harry seems to have an antipathy for young ladies of society. What will he think when he discovers that Tessa is one of those young ladies that he so despises? For Tessa, that is one outcome she'd rather not contemplate. <br />&quot;A Townhouse for Tessa&quot; reads a little like a fairy tale. Tessa goes from finding herself friendless and virtually penniless, to discovering she's the equivalent of a fairy tale princess, with a house and monies of her own. Along the way she makes a new life for herself, and discovers the joys of having true friends. She even discovers true love, along with the complications that that can sometimes entail. The book was quite a pleasant read. So why did I find myself being a little disappointed? Mainly because Tessa's past was not developed enough. In the opening chapter, we're told that Tessa has three sisters, and all were placed with different families. The letters that Tessa received from her mother and the vicar explain why the mother was estranged from her parents, but no mention is made of Tessa's other sisters. In fact Tessa has to ask if she has any siblings; her lawyer promises to look into the matter, but nothing further is revealed. Also, I couldn't figure out why Tessa's father's name was never mentioned. All we're told is that he is the younger son of a viscount, who because he ran away to join the army, was estranged from his family (again information from the first chapter). You'd think however that Tessa's mother would have made some mention of her husband's name in her letter to her daughter! And then there is the perplexing manner in which Tessa moves about society dos as Miss Kirkwood, but never seems to run into her Lockhard relatives or her erstwhile fiance at all -- well she does have a run in with him, but since they don't have a face to face confrontation, that didn't really count. Given that the Upper Ten Thousand seemed to have been a rather in-bred bunch, you'd have thought that she'd have run into one of her nasty Lockhard connections at least once! I kept waiting for the confrontation, and was quite disappointed when it never materialised.<br />The problem, I suppose, is that I prefer novels that have a little more 'meat' in their plots; &quot;A Townhouse for Tessa&quot; on the other hand is a rather straight forward and pleasant read. The bits that dealt with Tessa making new friends, and discovering that she has made a rich, new life for herself, after the cruel treatment that she was meted out, was vastly satisfying. I'm just a tad spoilt: I wanted certain questions answered and was disappointed when they weren't. So all in all, I'd say that this was probably a better read than I've portrayed it to be.	2001-12-05
1745045:US	52830980	R1U1JBVX0P62H1	0312284063	96986845	Lilies That Fester	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a very absorbing read	&quot;Lilies That Fester&quot; is an extremely absorbing read, that really keeps you guessing as to the identity of the villain until the very end.<br />Bretta Solomon may be feeling good about herself now that she's shed some weight, but the headache of coordinating the first floral competition at the Branson Florist Convention, has done quite a bit to sour her mood. Dealing with avid competitors who will not stop hounding her to reveal more about the different categories that Bretta has thought up for the competition, plus in-house wrangling amongst the board members has been enough to make her wish that she had never agreed to oversee the competition. The only bright spot in the horizon is that she seems to have picked up an admirer -- good looking, single and an amateur gardener to boot! And then just before the festivities start, Bretta receives an urgent message from a couple, the McDuffys, that her dead husband used to know. Knowing about her ability to solve perplexing mysteries, they leave urgent messages with her, pressing for a meeting. Having had no success with actually meeting Bretta so far, they leave a letter and a cassette, with instructions for Bretta to read the letter if they fail to make the planned meeting for the following morning. However the McDuffys fail to turn up the next day. Reading the letter, Bretta discovers that the couple want Bretta to discover what had happened to their daughter just before she died of a heart attack. Her behaviour had changed drastically the few months before her death, and the McDuffys suspect that someone was at the root of all her unhappiness that caused her death. Bretta is of course saddened by the letter, and is not sure what she can do. And then she discovers that the McDuffys seem to have mysteriously vanished. Although her hands are quite full with trying to mange the competition, as well as deal with her many back-stabbing colleagues, she feels she must track down the McDuffys, if only to talk to them.But where to start? And then someone starts playing a series of dangerous pranks on Bretta, and her would-be beau starts behaving strangely. What exactly is going on? And how are the McDuffys connected to all this? Bretta is determined to find out.<br />This is by far the best Bretta Solomon mystery novel, and I was quite engrossed. There are so many things I liked about this mystery novel: the mystery was an intriguing and interesting one, and the plot unfolded smoothly and flawlessly till the very end where Janis Harrison pulled everything together brilliantly. Bretta Solomon is a wonderfully clever, warm hearted and feisty amateur sleuth, and &quot;Lilies That Fester&quot; showcases this character superbly. (I absolutely loved the wry tone she used when observing the silly antics that other members of the board indulged in) &quot;Lilies That Fester&quot; is definitely a first rate read.	2001-12-05
1756086:US	52830980	RGMVNK8F8QBOL	0312207662	934615829	Agatha Raisin and the Love from Hell (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 11)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	If you're a staunch fan, this book will entertain, if not...	Whether or not you enjoy this latest Agatha Raisin mystery novel is going to depend on just how much affection you have for Agatha, and how much of a fan you are of this series and M. C. Beaton's style of writing. I'll admit to be a staunch Agatha Raisin fan, so my feelings about the latest Agatha Raisin mystery novel are probably a little biased. If you're curious about how Agatha and James' relationship will pan out, then this latest novel, &quot;Agatha Raisin and the Love from Hell&quot; will probably entertain; however if you're looking for a really good 'cozy' murder mystery set in the country, this book may be a bit of a disappointment.<br />Agatha and James are finally married. But it's turning out to be the marriage from hell, as James constant criticism wears away at Agatha's self assurance and leaves her miserable. Their fights are grist mill for the village, and matters go from bad to worse when James suddenly sets up a flirtation with one of his old flames, Melissa Shepherd. And then James disappears, his house is in a mess, and there is a blood stain at the doorstep. And Agatha finds herself to be the chief suspect in her husband's disappearance. Worried about James and determined to clear her name, Agatha sets out to find James, but stumbles across Melissa's dead body instead. And now Agatha has find James and prove that he had nothing whatsoever to do with Melissa's murder. Has James's disappearance anything to do with Melissa's murder? Where can James have got to? And is he still alive? Grimly, Agatha clings to the hope of finding James alive as she begins one of the most important investigations of her life.<br />Mystery wise, this latest Agatha Raisin mystery novel is a little frustrating. The plot does not unfold smoothly, but in a rather circuitous manner instead, that almost mirrors Agatha's depressed and numb frame of mind. Agatha and her sleuthing friend, Sir Charles Fraith, move to and fro between suspects, uncovering bits of information thatpaint a rather alarming picture of Melissa, but which land them no closer to a solution to the problem at hand, until the last few chapters where Agatha makes an intuitive guess and hits the jackpot. Entertaining perhaps, but the solution blindsided me -- perhaps I should have read the book more carefully. On the other hand, I've been dying to see how the marriage between James and Agatha would pan out, and how long it would take before Agatha admitted to herself that James did not have what it took to make an ideal husband. Some fans have complained that Beaton had changed James from a charming and distinguished man to a short tempered fiend. However, James has never really treated Agatha well, even in the first few books. So that his descent into husband from hell did not really surprise me. I just kept waiting for Agatha to wake up before it was too late. <br />What makes &quot;Agatha Raisin and the Love from Hell&quot; so very, very readable, is of course its heroine. Fractious, yet endearing, one cannot help but hope that Agatha will find the happiness and companionship she so desperately craves. And Beaton's ironic prose style frames Agatha's quest for happiness brilliantly. And this is what will definitely propel me into reading the next Agatha Raisin mystery novel.	2001-11-27
1756540:US	52830980	RZV3ZMPZDX2GM	0373511663	83568410	The Silver Squire	Books	3	6	6	N	N	a Regency romance that is not of the drawing room variety	If you like Regency romances with plenty of sexual tension between the hero and heroine, where the heroine constantly rails at the hero, while he stalks her and forces her to rely on him, then &quot;The Silver Squire&quot; by Mary Brendan should definitely satisfy. <br />Emma Worthington runs away from home when she discovers that because of her father's gambling debts, she's expected to marry a rather horrid but rich gentleman of means. Not one to sit idly while her life is being decided for her, Emma decides to go to Bath, to seek out a widower, Matthew Cavendish, who had proposed to her a while back. She hadn't been certain if she wanted to marry Matthew, but circumstances force her to seriously consider his suit. However, once in Bath, she meets Richard Du Quesne again. Three years ago, their paths had crossed when Emma's friend, Victoria, was being courted by Richard's friend, Viscount Courtenay. Emma had always treated Richard with disdain, believing all the gossip about his rakish and disreputable ways, and had always rebuffed Richard's overtures of friendship with scorn. Now, she's appalled to find their paths crossing again, and at such a time. Frightened that Richard will seek out her parents and inform them of her whereabouts, she allows Richard to believe that she's been sent to Bath because she had disgraced herself by having an affair out of wedlock, and is now with child. One lie leads to another, and soon Emma finds herself adrift in a sea of lies with no where to go and no one to turn to for help, unless she lets her guard down and accepts Richard's help. But can she afford to do so?<br />Three years ago Richard Du Quesne, darling of the London drawing rooms, and one of the most eligible bachelors of the ton, fell in love with Emma because of her wit, unique beauty, and because she was one of the few women who refused to fall at his feet in adoration. However, Emma made very clear her intense dislike for him, and Richard soon withdrew form the scene. Now, he finds that he is still in love with her, in spite of her circumstances, and he is torn between wanting to protect her and wanting to seduce her. What will he do? And what will happen once he realises that Emma has been spinning quite the web of lies and evasions?<br />Although it is easy to sympathise completely with Emma, and admire her for her courage and grit, I did find myself becoming increasingly impatient with our heroine for all the silly lies she kept spinning. What intelligent young woman would pass herself of as a fallen woman? Also, I couldn't understand how Emma could keep on believing the very worse of Richard in spite of all the evidence to the contrary. Would her best friend, Victoria, for example made him godfather to her child if he really was the callous lecher that Emma believed him to be? And although I don't have much sympathy for high handed heroes, I'll admit to feeling a little sorry for Richard -- given that he openly admits to himself his love for Emma, all her railing, distrust and scorn must have been extremely painful to bear. And I'll admit to feeling overwhelmingly relieved when Richard and Emma finally ironed all their differences and made a match of it.<br />Be forewarned, &quot;The Silver Squire&quot; has a couple of rather sensually steamy scenes, and is not the Regency romance of the drawing room variety. So, if you like light sensuality and authoritative heroes, this novel should more than satisfy.	2001-11-27
1756612:US	52830980	R38EQU221T8TLE	0451203496	461192226	The Traitor's Daughter (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	an exciting read	&quot;The Traitor's Daughter&quot; by Elizabeth Powell is a wonderfully intriguing read that deals with treason and spying within the British Navy during the Napoleonic Wars. <br /> When Amanda Tremayne's father, a respected naval officer, was found guilty of treason and executed, she lost everything: her good name. her home, and security. However Amanda never for a moment doubted that her father was innocent of the charge and that he had been framed by his commanding officer, Admiral Locke. And so she resolves to discover the truth and clear her father's name. She manages to bluff her way into the Admiral's house during a ball; however her search for evidence is hampered by the arrival of another sleuth. Captain Sir John Everly has been instructed by his superiors to ferret out evidence of Locke's wrongdoing. And he is both stunned and flabbergasted when he discovers what it is Amanda is up to, especially so when he realises whose daughter she is. They decide grudgingly to work together, each not sure if they can really trust each other. At the back of Everly's mind lies the uneasy realisation that he is working with a convicted traitor's daughter -- no matter that she is an extremely lovely young lady, while Amanda must decide if she can trust one of the men who sentenced her father to death (Everly sat on the tribunal that sentenced her father to death), especially since he seems to be the kind of young gentleman she would have liked to have known better under different circumstances. Can Everly and Amanda overcome their distrust of each other enough to be able to work together? And what of the undeniable attraction that each feels for the other? <br />&quot;The Traitor's Daughter&quot; is an extremely well written novel, faced paced and cunningly constructed. Elizabeth Powell also did a very good job in maintaining the air of suspense in the novel -- there were several tense moments where I actually feared that Amanda would be discovered as she rifled through the Admiral's papers. The characters were all fully realised in the beginning chapters -- Amanda was quickly established as an angry young woman, full of resolve, intelligent and fearful that all her efforts on her father's behalf will be in vain; while Everly is portrayed as a responsible and intelligent man of 'action.' Even the villain of the piece is set firmly in place from the very beginning. All in all, this was quite an exciting read. I did wish however that Ms Powell had spent a little more time on Amanda's feelings of doubts about getting involved with someone who had sentenced her father to death. This issue was not really addressed fully, and would have, I thought, been a real issue between the two (never mind that Everly was actually doing what he had to do). After all Amanda spends quite a bit of time wondering if she has allowed bitterness and her need for revenge to warp her. So that her quick dismissal of whether or not she would be able to, in the long run, overlook Everly's role in her father's death, was surprising. However, that quibble aside, &quot;The Traitor's Daughter&quot; was the exciting and fun read, and one worth touting!	2001-11-27
1759695:US	52830980	R296872WLBRV2Z	0451204212	950494248	Sugarplum Surprises (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	14	16	N	N	an enjoyable Christmas tale	Why did the duke of Chandrose call off his wedding to the beautiful Miss Fanny Fowler? This is the thread that weaves its way through Elizabeth Fairchild's Christmas fable, &quot;Sugarplum Surprises.&quot; <br />In a fit of honesty, Fanny Fowler tells her future husband something (we're not told what at this point; but this bit of information is tantalizingly waved in front of our noses for much of the novel, and it is not until the last quarter of the book that what Fanny said is divulged). What Fanny doesn't count on is the Duke of Chandrose's (her fiance) reaction. In a fit of anger, disillusionment and hurt, the duke cancels the wedding and jilts Fanny. And now, not only has Fanny's parents decided to remove their disgraced daughter from Bath, but also to refuse payment on the very expensive wedding trousseau that Fanny had ordered. For Madame Nichollet, the dressmaker who had designed and sewn all the dresses, this refusal of payment could mean the end of her dressmaking enterprise. And so, she decides to approach the duke, hoping that he will agree to defray the cost of all these specially designed gowns. However, she decides to do so as her real self: Miss Jane Nichol, the daughter of the late Baron Orday. <br />Upon her father's death, Jane stepmother had tried to arrange a marriage for Jane with a rather repulsive but rich baron. Rather than give in, Jane ran away from home, came to Bath and donning a disguise as a matronly Frenchwoman, opened a dress-shop. Now however, Jane faces bankruptcy especially if she cannot persuade the duke to pay for Fanny's discarded dresses. And so Jane approaches the duke and successfully shames him into agreeing to pay for the gowns. But when the duke goes to the dress shop to make the payment, he realises that Jane and Madame Nichollet are one and the same. Sure that Jane is up to something shady, he decides to look into her affairs and keep an eye on her. Soon Jane finds that her path and the duke's are constantly crossing,and that try as she might, she cannot deny that she finds this stern-faced duke very appealing. But can she trust him with the truth about her past? As for the duke, he soon finds himself being totally tantalized and intrigued with Jane, and soon realises that he cares a great deal for her. But he is the Duke of Chandrose, and Jane is the disgraced runaway daughter of Baron Orday, as well as in trade. Can he overlook the scandal that is attached to Jane's name? All this however becomes quite moot when Jane's stepmother comes to Bath. Will she recognise that Jane and Madame Nichollet are one and the same? And if so, will she demand that Jane marries the repulsive baron? What will the duke do then?<br />&quot;Sugarplum Surprises&quot; is exactly right kind of romance novel for the season. Both Jane and the duke have had disappointments handed to them, and the festive Christmas season seems to only add to their feelings of loneliness and alienation. So that, when they both (finally) acknowledge their love for each other, you feel as if the magic of Christmas had a lot to do with the blossoming of their affections. Jane is the kind of heroine that anyone would find easy to empathize with and root for. And the duke is a refreshing change too: a reserved and honourable gentleman, who finds that he has it in him to overlook Jane's unconventional behavior and pursue her for himself. Ms Fairchild did a rather wonderfully in constructing this novel: the manner in which she teases the reader into wondering why the duke jilted Fanny, and the way in which she contrasted the close relationship that the duke had with his mother and sisters with the rather bad one that Jane had with her stepmother and sister, was I thought, extremely well done. <br />&quot;Sugarplum Surprises&quot; is a heartwarming novel that revels in the magic of Christmas. A rather fun read.	2001-11-24
1763213:US	52830980	R2GCXZK0ILALJR	0373511671	835590444	A Bargain With Fate	Books	5	4	4	N	N	an enchanting read	Throw in a roguishly handsome nobleman with a reserved but sweet natured widow, add one villainous rake, a jealous ex-mistress and a pretend betrothal, stir these ingredients together lightly and you have one of the most delightful Regency romance novels of the year.<br />Lady Rosalyn Jeffreys's younger brother, James, has gambled away the family estate to the notorious Lord Michael Stamford. Eager to try and gain back the estate before their grandmother can learn of James's folly, Rosalyn goes to Lord Stamford to ask him to allow her to buy back the estate. Stamford however has another idea: he will give the estate back to James only if Rosalyn agrees to a 'pretend' betrothal. Stamford's father, the Duke of Eversleigh, has decided that it is about time his son and heir is married, and has all but arranged a marriage for him with a suitable young debutante. Stamford however has no desire to be shackled to a wife right now, and his plan is to present his father with a sham fiancee, satisfy his father for the time being and then break off the engagement once it is safe to do so. In order for his plan to work, he needs the right kind of 'pretend' fiancee. And the pretty Lady Jeffreys with her sweet smiles would fit the ticket nicely. And while Rosalyn is appalled at the idea of such a scheme, she reluctantly agrees to Stamford's proposal. The pretend engagement however has a rather strange effect on the couple: Rosalyn finds that the roguishly handsome Stamford to be unexpectedly charming and intelligent, almost too much so for her peace of mind, while Stamford finds himself falling under the spell of Rosalyn's sweet beauty and reserved manners. It doesn't take too long before he realises that he has fallen in love with his 'pretend' fiancee. For the first time in his life, Stamford isn't quite sure of his effect on the woman he desires, and he isn't too sure if he can he persuade her to make this sham betrothal real either! Will Stamford win Rosalyn's affections and approval? And what of the poisonous attempts of his ex-mistress to tear them apart?<br />The plot is rather run-of-the-mill -- I think that this plot device is quite a popular one. However what makes this romance novel unique is the faintly sensual manner in which Ann Elizabeth Creel made Stamford and Rosalyn interact with each other. This was accomplished in an incredibly tasteful manner, but it was (at times) lightly steamy! I also enjoyed the manner in which Stamford teased Rosalyn, and the way in which he kept trying to break through her reserved manner. And I liked that he discovered he was in love with Rosalyn first. The norm seems for the heroine to realise that she is in love with the hero, so that was quite refreshing to have it go the other way around for a change. <br />&quot;A Bargain with Fate&quot; is an engaging and captivating read, that boasts of a memorable and likable hero and heroine, and an entertaining and enchanting writing style. A truly wonderful romance novel.	2001-11-21
1764347:US	52830980	R1Z9J9F24G2D6C	037351168X	914080931	Lady Knightley's Secret	Books	4	4	4	N	N	a first rate read	When Miss Elizabeth Beresford goes to visit her old school friend, Lady Verity Dartwood, she little expects Sir Richard Knightley to be the Dartwood's guest as well. Both Elizabeth's and Richard's parents had planned for the two to marry, but weeks after her father's death, Elizabeth informed Richard that she had no intention of marrying him and promptly left the neighbourhood to live with her maternal grandmother. Now the two meet for the first time in years, and Richard is quite amazed in the change in Elizabeth. For she grown into a very beautiful and competent young lady. He would like nothing better than to spend time getting to know this new and intriguing Elizabeth better, but she seems equally determined in keeping him at arm's length. And then Elizabeth's nasty sister descends for a visit, and she sets in motion events that end in Richard's proposal of marriage to Elizabeth. And then, Richard realises that Elizabeth is not a virgin. Ranting and raving like a spoilt child, Richard cruelly lashes out at Elizabeth, before he leaves her, making for London. Once there, Richard indulges in several flirtations, setting the ton on its ears. As his anger cools, he realises that he must decide whether or not to go back to his wife and try to make this marriage work, or to end everything. <BR>But can he be sure that Elizabeth will want to continue being his wife, especially given his cruel and taunting words to her before he deserted her?<br />The previous reviewer's view about the double standard involved concerning a groom's desire that his bride be lily-white pure and virginal is quite accurate. I certainly wanted to hurl several breakable objects at Sir Richard Knightley's head when he started to rant and rave at Elizabeth's not being a virgin. Especially since the novel actually opens with Richard relieving his nurse of her virginity (she refuses to marry him because she senses that he does not love her). The irony of the whole thing never really seems to hit Richard, nor disappointingly is it ever really discussed in the book. However, &quot;Lady Knightley's Secret&quot; had proved to be highly engrossing reading up to that point, so I persevered, and was rewarded. This romance novel was a truly excellent read. Anne Ashley writing style is engaging and intelligent, and she handled the entire issue of Richard's anger and Elizabeth's pain in a very capable manner. And, thankfully, she rehabilitates Richard halfway through the book (who displays a surprising capacity for mature and discriminating behaviour), so that the reader is able to see Richard as a 'hero' after all, and worthy of the Elizabeth's love and devotion. I liked the various subplots that revolved around the main plot and made this novel a lot more interesting than it otherwise might have been. But most of all, I liked that character of Elizabeth Beresford, who turned out to be one of the most intelligent, capable and nicest of heroines I've ever come across. &quot;Lady Ashley's Secret&quot; is definitely a first rate read.	2001-11-20
1765557:US	52830980	R1P7CCKDDO2SR5	0821770403	199729728	Belle Of The Ball (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	refreshingly different kind of romance novel, I thought	&quot;Belle of the Ball&quot; by Donna Simpson is quite unlike other Regency romance novels in that it is mostly contemplative in nature -- the heroine, Arabella Swinley, spends much of the novel, reflecting on her unhappy circumstances, examining her past behaviour, which she is quite ashamed of and wondering if there is such a thing as 'love.' The hero of the novel, Marcus Westhaven, also spends quite a bit of time wondering why he's so taken with Arabella especially since she is the embodiment of everything he despises in a woman: proud, self-centered and entirely too preoccupied with finding a rich husband. There isn't much 'action' in this novel -- there is a lot of flirtation between Arabella and Marcus of course, but the novel remains between the parameters of the hero and heroine trying to decide what to do, all the while getting to know a little of each other's true nature as they flirt their way through the Season. Some readers may find the ruminative nature of this novel a little off-putting, however I found it to be refreshingly different and enjoyable.<br />Briefly, the plot is as follows: after having spent the last few Seasons rejecting all offers of marriage from eligible bachelors for the most specious of reasons, Miss Arabella Swinley is suddenly faced with the unpalatable truth that she must find herself a rich husband this Season, or face losing her family home. And if that wasn't enough to put any woman in the doldrums, there's her mother's constant carping and the fact that this Season's eligible bachelors seem to be a rather sorry lot! And then, Marcus Westhaven, an adventurer who has just returned form the Canadian wilds, bursts upon the London scene. And suddenly the Season begins to take on a more interesting turn for Arabella. For in spite of his rough and unsophisticated ways, Arabella finds herself responding to Marcus's good looks, charm and adventurous spirit. But Marcus is quite poor, and Lady Swinley as already decreed that Arabellamust somehow win 60 year old Lord Pelimore for her husband. What will Arabella do? Will she gird her loins and do her duty by encouraging the repulsive Lord Pelimore's suit? Or will she rebel and take a chance on love?<br />After a steady diet of the usual, it is always fun to come across a novel that is refreshingly different. Arabella was first introduced in &quot;Miss Truelove Beckons,&quot; and the Arabella of that novel was not very likeable at all: a little whiny, cold and manipulative. Flashes of a different Arabella only came to the fore now and then. In &quot;Belle of the Ball&quot; we see more of the likable Arabella and see how Lady Swinley's warped preconceptions about station wealth influenced her and not in a good way either. I found myself cheering for Arabella to come out from behind her mother's shadow and to become her own person, with her own opinions and values. Donna Simpson did a wonderful job of presenting a more sympathetic portrait of Arabella, so that we are able to feel for her when she realises that she is no longer the 'Diamond' of the London scene, and we're able to root for her to find happiness with Marcus. Another nice touch, I thought, was the fact that quite obviously both Marcus and Arabella had more or less fallen in love at first sight with each other, but neither of them figures this out for quite a while, spending much of their time wodering why they are so preoccupied with each other. There were however a couple of subplots that really bothered me. One subplot involved the Swinleys sudden loss of wealth. There are a couple of hints here and there as to what really happened, but the novel never really addressed this question. And I found Arabella's lack of interest in discovering why she and her mother were suddenly so poor completely incomprehensible. The other subplot that niggled involved Arabella's best friend, Miss Eveleen O' Clannahan, whose intriguing behaviour and mysterious disappearance halfway through the novel almost stole all my attention from Arabella and Marcus. I can only suppose that this is a kind of setup to whet our interest in an upcoming novel that will feature Eveleen. I do wish that Ms Simpson hadn't done that though as I became quite obsessed with discovering what became of Eveleen, and at Arabella's and Marcus's expense!<br />&quot;Belle of the Ball&quot; is a definitely an engaging read. Donna Simpson displays her skill as a masterful storyteller by taking a character that most might not truly approve of, and making her completely sympathetic. And this, in spite of the quibbles I had with the subplots, I thought that this novel truly remarkable.	2001-11-19
1768666:US	52830980	R2BU5DWM0QYRUV	0451204611	571656656	Libby's London Merchant & Miss Chartley's Guided Tour (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	a treat not to be missed	This is treat not to be missed: two of Carla Kelly's better Regency novels in one package! Both &quot;Libby's London Merchant&quot; and &quot;Miss Chartley's Guided Tour&quot; are reprints from the late 1980s-early 1990s, but they still make for enjoyable and engaging reading today, as they did then; and are wonderful examples of how a fascinating plot, together with appealing characters, and a pleasing writing style, make for pleasurable reading.<br />I'm not going to go into the plot of &quot;Libby's London Merchant&quot; too much, because much of the joy that is to be gleaned from this novel is the unexpected twist and turns that this romance takes. Briefly, the plot of this novel centers on the beautiful Miss Elizabeth Ames, who suffers from the twin evils of both possessing undesirable family connections (her maternal grandfather was a tobacconist) and of being quite penniless. Fortunately for Libby, her's is a rather sunny disposition and she is quite content living with her mother and brother on her kindly uncle's estate, helping her mother run her uncle's house, and being a friend and companion to her cousin, Lydia. Interestingly enough while Libby still has hopes that she will one day find a gentleman who would love her enough to overlook her unfortunate circumstances, she seems to be oblivious to the fact that the awkward but dedicated village doctor, Dr. Cook, is quite in love with her.  And then one day, everything changes. A handsome stranger has a carriage accident, and is taken to her uncle's house to recuperate. The stranger proves to be a London chocolate merchant, and he is handsome and charming and in no time at all, Libby finds herself falling deep into the stranger's thrall. However this London merchant is no ordinary tradesman. He is actually Benedict Nesbitt, the Duke of Knaresborough, who has donned a disguise in order to take Lydia Ames's measure (subplot involving the Duke's down-on-his-luck cousin who has to marry Lydia because she is an heiress). What a bonus that Lydia's cousin would turn out to be so beautiful and charming! In no time at all, the Duke decides that he wants to marry Libby. But will he still want to do so when he discovers her family connections and her lack of a dowry? What will Libby do if the Duke turns his back on her after he learns everything? And what of Dr. Cook?<br />In the opening chapter of &quot;Miss Chartley's Guided Tour,&quot; Omega Chartley discovers that she has been jilted at the church door by her fiance, Matthew Bering. Things go from bad to worse for our heroine, when on the heels of that humiliating disaster, Omega's father looses all his money. Deciding to make her own way in the world, Omega finds employment as an instructor at an academy for young girls. And now, for the first time in years, she is all set to have her first holiday. Her vacation however takes an unexpected turn when she helps a young 10 year boy evade a Bow Street Runner. James Clevenden, tired of the cruel manner in which his legal guardian deals with him, has runaway from his home, hoping to reach his other uncle's home, and so find sanctuary. Imagine Omega's surprise when upon arriving at the uncle's estate, he turns out to be her erstwhile fiance, Matthew Berring, and her deep disappointment when Matthew seems all set to return James to his cruel guardian! Can Omega forgive Matthew for jilting her in such a public and humiliating manner? And what is she to make of his determination not to interfere with the manner in which James is being ill treated? As for Matthew, he never thought he'd ever see Omega again. And he's not sure if he should tell her the truth as to why he abandoned her. For there is a very dark reason as to why Matthew jilted Omega, and he's very much afraid that the truth will make Omega despise him even more than she already does! Will Matthew relent and agree to protect James? And will he be able to persuade Omega to forgive him and agree to take a chance at loving himagain?<br />Both these novels make for enjoyable reading. Carla Kelly displays her talent by taking two rather run-of-the-mill plots and tweaking them is such a manner as to make them fascinatingly different. I liked the fact that the heroes and heroines were not always overwhelmingly good looking, and that both Libby and Omega are the kinds of resilient and intelligent heroines that appeal and engage the reader to root for them to come out on top. Both these books make for excellent reading, and if you're looking for romances with nifty plotlines, appealing characters, and intelligent writing, look no further: this two-in-one deal is a must!	2001-11-16
1773127:US	52830980	RLPFSL7SGI4E8	0821769006	67065132	The Devil And Miss Webster (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	a fun read	If you like romance novels where the hero and heroine spend much of the book being at odds with each other even as they are beginning to fall in love with each other, then &quot;The Devil and Miss Webster&quot; should definitely satisfy.<br />Miss Eleanor Webster has spent the past 11 years not only as Lady Laura Ransome's companion, but as estate manager as well. Both the extremely beautiful but featherheaded Lady Laura, and her profligate husband, evinced a complete disinterest in running the estate. However, with Lord Ransome's death, the days of Eleanor running things comes to an end. For now, Captain Stephen Ransome, Lord Ransome's younger brother, is executor of the estate, as well as guardian to the Ransome children. The news that the Captain is on his way to Ransome Hall, throws Lady Laura and Eleanor into a frenzy. For Lady Laura has a guilty secret, and she is very much afraid of what may happen if the Captain discovers her secret. Eleanor is firmly resolved to protect Lady Laura, and since she has a rather poor opinion of men, especially charming, good looking men who like to have their own way in spite of the wishes and desires of those around them, she is confident that she will be able to handle Stephen Ransome. However, Stephen Ransome turns out to be a little more than she expected. Yes, he is suspiciously charming, but proves to be thoughtful and kind as well. However, it is quite obvious from his behavior, that he suspects Eleanor of having taken advantage of Lady Laura's inability to run her own home by lining her own pockets. How is she do deal with such a misapprehension, especially when another person, privy to Lady Laura's secret decides to blackmail Lady Laura, and Lady Laura turns to Eleanor for help in order to get out of this mess?<br />Informed by the family solicitor that something fishy was going on at Ransome Hall, and Eleanor Webster was probably at the root of everything, Stephen Ransome swiftly makes for the Hall in order to give Eleanor her walking papers and to clear up the mess that he has been led to believe she has created, so that he can return to London and get on with his life. He is therefore quite surprised to find that, except for a few matters, things at Ransome Hall are running as smoothly as ever. Eleanor Webster proves to be much much more than he expected as well -- beautiful, clever and kind. However, she is also delightful prim, and she does seem to have a rather low opinion of him. Roguishly, he embarks on a sparring campaign with Miss Webster, little expecting the unexpected direction this prank would take as his attraction and appreciation of Eleanor grows with each passing day. This proves to be especially disturbing when suddenly, evidence falls into his lap that Eleanor may indeed be up to some sort of nefarious activity. Could Eleanor be up to no good? Stephen is almost too afraid to find out!<br />Although I enjoyed this novel, I couldn't help but think that there has to have been a more efficient way for Stephen to have discovered if Eleanor was indeed embezzling from the Ransome estate, than the rather ineffectual and bumbling manner in which he carried out his investigation. Of course, this rather unbelievable stumbling about allowed for Stephen and Eleanor to interact more, adding to the sexual tension that was simmering between them, so that perhaps that was the point all along. Another bit I found disconcerting was the smallish subplot that dealt with Eleanor's relationship with her brother. This subplot was obviously added to throw light on Eleanor's past and the wrongs she had suffered, however, I felt that the resolution of said subplot left much to be desired.<br />Except for these small quibbles, I found &quot;The Devil and Miss Webster&quot; to be a goodish read. Nothing earth-shatteringly different about the plot-line, but I did like the heroine Eleanor Webster immensely. Here was a heroine, who had been through much, but who managed to survive, come outon top and find love and affection with a man who was her ideal match to boot. Reading alongs as Eleanor and Stephen grew to realise that each were meant for the other was deeply satisfying. Definitely &quot;The Devil and Miss Webster&quot; was quite the read.	2001-11-13
1774515:US	52830980	R23LS3ZPPYIMZE	087113831X	286089143	The Dark Clue: A Novel of Suspense	Books	5	15	17	N	N	an enthralling read	Note: &quot;The Dark Clue&quot; by James Wilson has absolutely nothing to do with Wilkie Collins's &quot;The Woman in White,&quot; eventhough Wilson has made Marian Halcombe and Walter Hartright, the two avenging righters of all wrongs, from Collins's novel, the chief protagonists in &quot;The Dark Clue.&quot; Having said that, if you enjoyed Collins's novel for its gothicky atmosphere, the absolutely brilliant manner in which both the plot unfolded and the novel was executed, and for the investigative zeal with which both Marian and Walter carried out their quest, then &quot;The Dark Clue&quot; cannot fail to satisfy. For James Wilson has written a truly enthralling novel, that successfully evokes the feel of the rather prissy yet dark passions of the Victorian period.<br />Marian Halcombe has recognised a kind of malaise in her dear brother-in-law, Walter Hartright, for some time now.  Realising that part of the problem is boredom, coupled with a sense of uselessness, Marian is at a loss as to how to help him, when fate puts the solution in her hands. Lady Eastlake, a friend of Marian's, is looking for someone credible and competent to write a biography of one of England's most talented of artists, J. M. W. Turner. Apparently, a gossiping hack journalist has decide to embark on exactly such a task, and Lady Eastlake fears that his take on Turner will be a tittle-tattle backbiting biography, that will tarnish Turner's good name. Lady Eastlake wants to commission a biography that will counter this hack's book. Walter is eager to embark on the project, however, he does make it clear to Lady Eastlake that he intends to tell the 'truth' about Turner, warts and all -- this will be no sugar coated biography! And so armed with the names of Turners remaining friends, and colleagues, Walter and Marian set out to do a little investigative foraying into Turner's life.<br />What they find perplexes them. There seems to be two views of Turner: some see Turner as a generous butdeeply misunderstood genius, much abused, sensitive, and secretive; while others view him as stingy, cruel and proud. And then there are the hints that Turner led a darker and very secret second life, with suggestions of depraved behavior involving prostitutes. Can there be any truth to such rumours? While Marian uses the information that they have gleaned from the interviews and the insights that they have gained from viewing Turner's art to arrive at some kind of profile of the artist, Walter gets sucked into speculating about Turner's supposed depravities. Utterly obsessed, Walter takes to haunting the slums of London that Turner rose from, looking for clues as to whether or not the Great Man had a darker side. It isn't too long before this preoccupation consumes him and makes him utterly oblivious to everything and everyone, and leaves Marian wondering if the cure for Walter's malaise may prove to be far worse than the disease.<br />&quot;The Dark Clue&quot; is a truly engrossing read. James Wilson does a wonderful job of depicting the sentimental Victorian sensitivities of Marian and Walter, who for quite a while seem to be totally unable to cope with both Turner's earthier side and the power of his art. And I liked the manner in which he split Marian's and Walter's investigation into Turner's life, showing the two ways in which a look into someone's life could go -- having Marian use careful research and intuition to arrive at certain conclusions, juxtaposing it with Walter's fixation to prove that there was indeed something dark at the heart of Turner's genius, an obsession that spirals completely out of control. I also liked the manner in which he brought out more of Marian's feelings, fears and regrets, making her a much more rounded character. <br />&quot;The Dark Clue&quot; is well written and brilliantly executed novel, that does indeed evoke images of fog filled London streets, teeming with vice and conspiracies. James Wilson does a wonderful job of maintainning the suspense and tension in the novel; the plot unfolds seamlessly and effortlessly. The characters are all well depicted and portrayed, and (a bonus here) we get to appreciate all over again the intelligence, courage and loyalty of Marian Halcombe. This novel is a truly remarkable read.	2001-11-12
1776083:US	52830980	R2ASW7RD9CKIAF	0451204638	361616476	Lady Flora's Fantasy (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Lady Flora's Very Irritating Fantasy	It's a little difficult (and frustrating) to write a review about a novel, enumerate the things that you didn't like and that disturbed, without really giving too much of the plot away, so that you inadvertently destroy whatever pleasure other readers may glean from the book at hand. Especially since a review is basically your own personal response to the novel, and others may not indeed share your view or opinion.<br />The problem I had with &quot;Lady Flora's Fantasy&quot; is that I never really took to the heroine, Lady Flora Winton, and found the blinkered manner in which she viewed people and events taking place around her, extremely frustrating and baffling. In brief, the plot for &quot;Lady Flora's Fantasy&quot; is as follows: while bathing at the sea, Lady Flora spies Lord Richard Dashwood is all his magnificent, muscled glory, and promptly looses her heart (and good sense) to him. And the fact that Lord Dashwood seems to be carrying out some kind of courtship of her, sends her over the moon! What she doesn't know is that Lord Dashwood is a dissolute wastrel and a gambler, and is courting Lady Flora solely because she fits his own criteria for a good wife -- rich and beautiful. Lady Flora is so engrossed with her fantasy of how wonderful and perfect Lord Dashwood is, that, not only will she hear no word against him, but she practically ignores all the other eligible bachelors who vie for her hand and heart, in particularly, Lord Dashwood's neighbour, Lord Lynd. A sober and honourable man, Lynd is appalled that Lady Flora has fallen under Dashwood's spell. He is even more appalled when he discovers that Dashwood is courting Lady Flora for her suitability, and not because Lady Flora has won his heart and esteem. Deeply in love with Flora, Lynd has to grit his teeth and bear it as he watches the pair spend more and more time together as the London season unfolds. Will Lynd be able to hold his tongue, or will he finally break down and enlighten Lady Flora as toDashwood's true colours, thereby crushing Lady Flora's heart in the process? <br />Here are the things that irked me about this novel: I couldn't understand how Lady Flora, after having been exposed to Dashwood's selfishness and manipulativeness over and over again, could keep forgiving him and cling to a fantasy that was obviously unrealistic, esp when nearly every other gentleman she meets seems to have reservations about Dashwood. Did she seriously think that the entire male population of England partook in some kind of collective male jealousy of the man? After she forgave him for about the fourth time, I completely lost all patience I had with our sad heroine and actually began to root for Dashwood and Lady Flora to ride out into the sunset together! Part of the problem for me was that eventhough the novel unfolds over a period of a year, Lady Flora never seems to grow up. There is no added depth or maturity to the character, until the last chapter. I thought that this gave the novel a really unbalanced feel. <br />And while I was losing what little patience and interest I had for Lady Flora, I found myself getting more and more invovlved with the character of Lady Flora's younger sister, Amy, whom I found much more appealing. And I found myself being much more interested with the problems she faced (and she faced quite a few in this novel), which unfortunately, Shirley Kennedy did not go into all that much because Lady Amy is after all only a peripheral character in this novel. And then there were the lapses into American colloquialisms. Why do the editors never catch these mistakes before the novel gets published? It is extremely jarring: in one moment you're literally pulled out of the 19th century drawing room you were comfortably settled in, and dropped into the 21st century!<br />I suppose I was rather disappointed with &quot;Lady Flora's Fantasy.&quot; The premise was really interesting, and I rather enjoyed the flights of fantasy Lady Flora indulged in.But after a while, I felt as if this novel was stuck in a rut. Lady Flora never really evolved: she remained the same blinkered young woman who had fallen for a pretty face, and who continued to wallow in self pity because things were not unfolding as she had envisioned they would. Ultimately however, the previous reviwer, the Book Huntress is right: whether or not you enjoy this novel is going to be a matter of personal choice. I was quite disappointed with this novel, you however, may not be.	2001-11-11
1776592:US	52830980	REIDQS4SKLIH5	0399147748	296679148	Smuggler's Moon (Sir John Fielding Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	another riveting installment in the series	Another riveting installment in the Sir John Fielding mystery series; and while it is really quite easy to figure who the evil criminal mastermind is in this particular novel, &quot;Smuggler's Moon&quot; is still an engrossing and exciting read.<br />Because the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Mansfield, is particularly concerned about the thriving smuggling trade in the seaside town of Deal, he asks Sir John to travel there to investigate the charges that the magistrate of Deal may be in league with the smugglers. This is a case of particular sensitivity because the magistrate of Deal, Albert Sarton, happens to be a protege of Lord Mansfield's, while the charges of complicity have been raised by the Chief Customs Officer of the region, George Eccles, and a friend of Lord Mansfield's Sir Simon Grenville. Together with an entourage that includes his trusty aide, Jeremy Proctor, young Clarissa Roundtree and Constable Perkins, Sir John makes for Deal in order to investigate the charges of corruption against Sarton. Once there however, Sir John and company find that things are not as clear cut as they were led to believe: the local people seem wary, while Sir Simon comes across as being incredibly cagey, and Sarton proves to be completely open and trustworthy! And then the group finds themselves drawn into an investigation of a murder at Sir Simon's estate. Just who was this murder victim and why was he murdered? And did the murder have anything to do with the smuggling trade? Soon, Sir John, Jeremy, Clarissa and Constable Perkins find themselves involved one of the most treacherous and dangerous of cases of all time. <br />This series keeps getting better and better. This time David Alexander treats us to a look at the flourishing smuggling trade that has plagued the English authorities since time immemorial. The lure that the trade has for anyone looking for a quick, easy and exciting way to make money, the danger that those who oppose the smuggling face, and the total lackof cooperation that the local people give the authorities, is laid out perfectly by the authour. I was so engrossed with the manner in which the plot was unfolding that I read &quot;Smuggler's Moon&quot; from cover to cover in one sitting. The Sir John Fielding-Jeremy Proctor mysteries is a wonderful series that boasts of exciting plotlines that intrigue, well drawn characters, and evenly sustained and maintained suspense. Also, David Alexander does a wonderful job of evoking the feel and the atmosphere of the 18th century. I've enjoyed every single one of these mysteries so far, and have no hesitation in recommending the entire sires as an excellent read for anyone who has yet to enjoy the Sir John Fiedling-Jeremy Proctor murder mysteries.	2001-11-10
1778752:US	52830980	R3NTSTSEWB0TN	0821771043	940543788	Under The Kissing Bough (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	an exquisitely heart warming Regency romance	Geoffrey Westerby, Lord Staines, needs to get married as soon as possible: his father is dying and the old man's sole wish is to see his eldest son safely settled before he dies. And while Geoffrey is determined to set his father's mind at ease by presenting him with a daughter-in-law, finding a sensible woman who will make a good countess, and be willing to settle for a marriage based on respect and some affection but not love, is not that easy at all. Having been rejected by the woman that he loves, Geoffrey has decided to turn his back on the notion of a marriage based on love, and has decided to settle for a comfortable one instead. And so, he decides to ask for the hand in marriage of Eleanor Glover, the daughter of one of his father's friends. And when he sees the shy and demure and rather plain Eleanor, Geoffrey congratulates himself that he has settled on exactly the 'right' kind of wife.<br />Eleanor however, is not the person that Geoffrey thinks she is -- yes, she is shy and demure, but alas, she is not a very sensible woman, for kind hearted Eleanor has fallen in love with the very handsome but sad Geoffrey Westerly. Deciding to hide her love for Geoffrey, Eleanor agrees to marry him, hoping that her love will be enough for the both of them. However that is before she realises that Geoffrey is actually suffering from a broken heart. And then Geoffrey's father decides that Eleanor will not make Geoffrey a good enough wife, and decides to interfere. With such overwhelming odds against her, will shy, plain and kind hearted Eleanor be able to hold out and make this marriage work? Or will an interfering old man prove too much for her? In the meantime, Geoffrey is beginning to realise that his wife-to-be is not the colourless woman he thought she was. He begins to first appreciate her kindness; this slowly develops into a need to protect and cherish her. Could Eleanor be the cure for his shattered heart? <br />&quot;Under the Kissing Bough&quot; is a wonderfully warm and tender love story about how a plain and shy young lady is able to capture the affections of her husband-to-be because of her kind and loving heart. It made for wonderful reading to see Geoffrey slowly realise what a gem Eleanor truly was, and how lucky he was to have found her. And it was satisfying to see Eleanor (finally) win Geoffrey's love and esteem. Both characters are well portrayed; and I liked the pace at which Shannon Donnelly allowed for the romance to develop between them. The different obstacles she threw at the couple (Geoffrey's infatuation with another woman, interfering relatives, Eleanor's unconventionality, etc) added zest to this otherwise run-of-the-mill plot, and made this a much more exciting and compelling romance novel. &quot;Under the Kissing Bough&quot; was a really first-class Regency romance, and just the thing for a recommended holiday read!	2001-11-08
1779617:US	52830980	R2TVPGJNH48GQ7	0786709081	606351685	The Bones of the Buried: The Second in the Lord Edward Corinth and Verity Browne Murder Mystery series	Books	4	9	9	N	N	great reading	Here's a tip when reading &quot;Bones of the Buried,&quot; have a piece of paper with all the characters names written down so that you don't start confusing one character with the other. This was especially true of the men in this mystery novel -- after a while, they all seem to be variations of a theme/mold. I'm usually rather good at being able to distinguish characters (and love novels that have lots of characters), but even I got confused a few times. Except for this small peeve, &quot;Bones of the Buried&quot; is a rather nifty and engrossing murder mystery, that is highly evocative of the period, and worth touting about as an excellent read.<br />Lord Edward Corinth has barely unpacked his bags and accustomed himself to being in London again after having spent six months in New York, when a rather hysterical Verity Browne turns up at his doorstep demanding his help. The last time that the pair spoke, Verity was on her way to cover the Spanish Civil War and keeping company with a rather obnoxious fellow communist party member, David Griffiths-Jones. Now, Verity wants Lord Edward to help save Griffiths-Jones from a Spanish firing squad. Apparently, Griffiths-Jones has been found guilty of murdering another communist party member, and a fellow Brit, Godfrey Tilney (an old Etonian whom Lord Edward remembers as being a bit of a bully and fairly unpleasant). Verity is certain that Griffiths-Jones is innocent, in spite of the circumstantial evidence against him, and wants Lord Edward to help her. Lord Edward is not so sure if he can indeed do anything to help save Griffiths-Jones from execution, but he agrees to set off for Madrid with Verity. What he finds is a country in chaos and full opposing little factions. Working against time, Lord Edward and Verity must navigate their way through all the petty internal politics and confusion in order to discover the evidence they need to set Griffiths-Jones free. But will they be able to accomplish this feat? <br />&quot;Bones of the Buried&quot; proved to be a highly engrossing read. I particularly liked that David Roberts took such care to get the feel of the period just right, and to explain the politics of the times in such detail. The mystery with all its little subplots that may or may not be interconnecting, was a brilliant brain teaser too. The character of Lord Edward seems to have matured a little since &quot;Sweet Poison,&quot; however I really kept getting irritated and frustrated with the character of Verity Browne. In &quot;Sweet Poison&quot; she seemed to be on the path towards realising the difference between ideals and dogma, but in &quot;Bones of the Buried&quot; however, she seems to have lost her ability to face the unpleasant truth about the Communist party, and constantly lapses to mouthing the party line whenever something she'd rather not face surfaces. Verity Browne, in this novel, comes across as an insecure and unsure young woman when she was not passionately discussing world affairs. And I kept rooting for Lord Edward to snap out of this fascination he had for Verity, esp since all she seems to do is use him for her own ends, otherwise dismissing completely his abilities and opinions. It's not that much fun reading constantly of one major character putting the other down for whatever reason. However this is only an opinion I have; other readers may enjoy Verity's constant abuse of Lord Edward.<br />Barrng my nitpicking about the Verity Browne character, &quot;Bones of the Buried&quot; is indeed a really engrossing and fun read.	2001-11-08
1783650:US	52830980	RREPGUNPJKF0P	0821771698	908258154	The Christmas Wish (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	a delightful and engaging read	&quot;The Christmas Wish&quot; by Debbie Raleigh is the first book in a projected (I'm guessing) trilogy that deals with the trials and fortunes of three sisters, Sarah, Emma and Rachel Cresswell. Commonly known as the Devil's Daughters, the sisters are the daughters of a notorious jewel thief, Solomon Cresswell, also known as the Devilish Dandy. The eldest daughter, Sarah, is the heroine of &quot;The Christmas Wish&quot; and I must say that if this novel is anything to go by, then this series promises to make for both engaging and satisfying reading.<br />Resigned to the fact that she will probably never marry because of her father's notoriety, Sarah Cresswell spends her days helping the children of the London slums.  The work she does takes her to all kinds of places and brings her into contact with all kinds of people, so that when Oliver Spense, the Earl of Chance (also known as the Flawless Earl), discovers that he has need of someone with a particular kind of expertise, a friend of the family directs him to seek out Sarah's help. Lord Chance is in quite the pickle: his feckless and younger brother, Ben, is in debt, and because Chance has decreed that he would get no more monetary help from him, has stolen the family diamonds. However, some other thief, in turn, steals the diamonds from Ben before he can sell them. Now, Chance has to recover the diamonds before Christmas so that their mother never discovers the depths to which her favourite son has sunk. And although Chance's arrogant and superior attitude really grates on her nerves, Sarah agrees to help the earl. Soon, Sarah and Chance are scurrying all over London, trying to discover who could have stolen the diamonds and to retrieve them. In the process, the two get to know each other rather well. Sarah finds, to her dismay, that she is very attracted to and highly susceptible to the very intelligent and vastly attractive Flawless Earl; while Chance finds himself falling under the spell of a very exciting and extremely intoxicating Sarah Cresswell, who unlike the ladies of the London ton questions his very intelligence, actions and preconceived notions. Never has the Flawless Earl been so engaged and entranced by one woman. But will anything come of this state of affairs? Sarah Creswell and her family are definitely persona non grata with London society. And Chance is well known for his impeccable behavior. Will the earl be able to overlook Sarah's scandalous family connections? Or will he give up the woman of his dreams for the sake of propriety?<br />&quot;The Christmas Wish&quot; was an extremely fun read. Both Sarah and Chance are exactly the kind of hero and heroine that anyone will find easy to root for. And what I especially liked about this romance novel was that after a few initial misgivings, Chance allows Sarah to lead and direct the investigation into the theft of the diamonds. He openly shows his appreciation of her abilities and intelligence and doesn't try to take over the whole enterprise at all. I found this to be a refreshing change from the usual male takeover stance we're all familiar with. A word of warning however: while there is a mystery attached to this novel, it plays second fiddle to the romance at hand. The novel flowed smoothly and this allowed for the romance that blossomed between Chance and Sarah to develop in a satisfying manner. And while both Chance's and Sarah's characters were somewhat well developed, the other major characters -- Emma, Rachel and the Devilish Dandy -- were not. However since these characters will definitely be featured more prominently in future books, this is not so important a retraction.<br />&quot;A Christmas Wish&quot; is a delightful and engaging romance novel, and I'm definitely looking forward to the other books in this series.	2001-11-05
1786101:US	52830980	R30WMR2X38SHM5	0821769987	387471617	AN Angel's Wish (A Zebra regency romance)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	a poignant read	David Fairfax, the Marquess of Stowe, is facing one of the biggest dilemmas of his life: his beloved six year old daughter, Jennie, has just informed her father that all she wants for Christmas is to be able to meet the mother she has never known. Almost six years ago, Tess Harwood, informed her husband that she wanted to end their marriage. The divorce proceedings proved to be a nightmare, and the end result was that Tess was exiled to the country, and forbidden to come up to London or to have any kind of dealings with Jennie at all. And now, six years later, Jennie wants to see Tess! With much misgivings, David writes to inform Tess that both he and Jennie, together with a house party will be at his Yorkshire estate, Stowcroft, for Christmas, and that Tess will be allowed to see Jennie for the duration of their stay.<br />For Tess, this is an opportunity she never dreamt possible -- to (finally) have access to the child she never thought she would have to give up when she ended her marriage. Seeing her daughter and David again brings up all kinds of feelings in Tess: anger and resentment at David for having taken Jennie from her when their marriage ended, yet feeling regret and remorse for all the pain she caused him; and she never dreamt she could feel so much love Jennie. And while she realises that she is still in love with David, she doubts if she will ever be able to convince him that she ended the marriage for his own good. For there are secret demons in Tess's past that forced her to act as she did. And anyway, too much time, pain and anger lies between them. Or so Tess believes. Add to that the complication that David seems all set to marry a young widow, Emily Granfield, and that Tess's old beau, Adrian Rawley, seems to be hanging about an awful lot, and you have a Christmas party positively heavy with emotion! Can Tess and David look past all the old hurts and anger, in order to work out their differences? Will they admit to each other that they still care for each other so that Jennie's secret Christmas wish to have her family reunited can come true?<br />At first glance, &quot;An Angel's Wish&quot; by Mary Kingsley seems like a rather somber tale of how a very forceful little girl sets out to bring her at odds parents together. However while the premise is a little dark (all the anger and anguish that David and Tess feel for and towards each other resonates throughout the pages and does preclude catergorising this novel as 'light' Regency fare), the manner in which the authour explores the entire theme of a mother and daughter getting to know each other was extremely well done, and inspired. And at first, when I got to the end of the novel when all is explained as to why Tess abandoned her marriage, I did feel a little let down. No fault of the authour's: I'd been reading too many mystery and gothic novels just before I'd embarked on &quot;An Angel's Wish&quot; and so was all geared up for the Big Revelation. But when I thought about it a little more, I realised that what Mary Kingsley had done (no, I'm not going to reveal why Tess ended her marriage, because that would be telling) was actually a lot better, because this makes both Tess and David more human and slightly flawed, prone to making mistakes that can, and does, make a mess of their lives. So that it makes their inevitable reconciliation all the more poignant and sweet.  <br />I enjoyed reading &quot;An Angel's Wish&quot; immensely. Mary Kingsley did a wonderful job in allowing us to see both Tess's and David's side of the conflict. She didn't take sides, and her even handed treatment of this issue paid off: this is an excellent read, with well developed and human characters, and the resolution of a love story that was deeply satisfying.	2001-11-03
1786777:US	52830980	R1U3BWQ2CAP0R9	0821770179	16766813	My Fair Quiggley (Zebra Book)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	an entertaining read	When the Marquis of Daxonbury is told by his fiance that she longer wishes to be engaged to him because he is far too 'adventurous' for her, he decides to shake the dust of London, off his elegant boots, and makes for Lavender Hill, where his aunt, Lady Miranda, currently resides. No one has heard a word from Lady Miranda for about six months, and Daxonbury is curious as to her welfare. What he finds however beggars all belief: apparently, his aunt, and her two companions, Miss Markham, and Miss Desdemona Quiggley have gone into business together, and have been successfully running the Lucy Lavender Enterprises for quite a while now. However not too long ago, disaster struck. First Lady Miranda's house burnt down, and then the shed that the ladies used to dry the lavender flowers was destroyed in a storm, and if that was not enough, their latest shipment of lavender pillows was stolen while en route to London. The ladies face bankruptcy, and are at their wits end as to how to recoup. Always resourceful, and completely determined not to ask any of their male relatives for any kind of help, the ladies had finally hit on a plan to capture a notorious highwayman, Dandy Dan, for the reward money. However this plan goes completely awry when instead of the highwayman, the ladies net Daxonbury instead!<br />Now, that he is in their midst, Daxonbury finds his feeling of malaise (at being rejected by his onetime fiance) lifting completely. To begin with there is the incredibly charming Miss Desdemona Quiggley. If anyone can make his forget the debacle of his engagement, certainly witty, clever and irrepressibly plucky Desdemona can. And then there is the lure of trying to discover who exactly is out to ruin his aunt. For unlike the ladies, Daxonbury doesn't believe that everything that befell them were accidents, and is determined to get to the root of the matter. In this he is ably assisted by Desdemona, and in no time at all, the pair are busy investigating. Daxonbury is completely thrilled to have an adventure at hand to distract him, however he soon finds that the charming Miss Quiggley could be too much of a distraction, as he finds himself paying more and more attention to the lady than to the mystery of who is behind the plot to destroy the Lucy Lavender Enterprises, and why. And for Daxonbury, the burning question soon becomes that of whether or not the incredibly independent Desdemona returns his feelings...<br />I had to read &quot;My Fair Quiggley&quot; twice. The thing is there are two romance subplots --  <BR>the subplot involving Daxonbury and Desdemona Qiggley, and the subplot involving Lady Miranda and Dandy Dan -- and I was completely hooked on the latter romance subplot! Which isn't really fair to the book because the Daxonbury-Desdemona subplot is a really good one. When we are first introduced to Daxonbury, he is full of wonderful little preconceptions about women and marriage. However, once he meets Desdemona, and realises her mettle, he comes to see that women too can want adventure and excitement, and that they also can be competent and self sufficient. Judith Lansdowne does a wonderful job of bringing the pair together. And I absolutely loved Desdemona Quiggley! Quick witted, clever, independent and forthright, and yet quite vulnerable too, esp once she realised that she was beginning to fall for a London gentleman of all things! However, while the Daxonbury-Quiggley subplot was fun to read, and the whole mystery subplot was interesting, I was hooked on the Lady Miranda-Dandy Dan subplot. Esp with all the mystery attached to Dandy Dan's intriguing past (which was never really resolved or revealed). There has to be a follow up to &quot;My Fair Qiggley!&quot;<br />All in all &quot;My Fair Quiggley&quot; is an entertaining read. A great deal occurs in this novel; however Judith Lansdowne, in my opinion, did a wonderful job in maintaining my interest, and dealing with all the various subplots and characters. I especially liked the manner in which the subplot involving Lady Miranda's neighbours, Lord and Lady Hartshorn was handled. And if I did feel a little shortchanged at the ending, because the entire Dandy Dan subplot was never really resolved, I'm clinging to the hope that a sequel to this novel is in the offing and soon!	2001-11-02
1794562:US	52830980	RBRML8GLHNW1H	0385335717	50444399	The Thief-Taker: Memoirs of a Bow Street Runner	Books	5	37	40	N	N	an engaging read	The Bow Street Runners do not, by large, enjoy a very good reputation in history or literature. They are frequently accused of, and portrayed as, individuals that were highly corrupt and self serving, incompetent and stupid. And yet, there probably were Runners who were highly professional, capable, intelligent, honest and decent. And T. F.  Banks's new novel, &quot;The Thief Taker: Memoirs of a Bow Street Runner&quot; centers on the work and cases of exactly one such runner, Henry Morton, who deplores the fact that Runners have such a bad reputation, even if it is well deserved. He has hopes that by setting a good example himself, he will inspire both confidence in the public for the Runners as to their trustworthiness, as well as encourage his fellow Runners to change their ways and take their chosen profession more seriously. <br />The events that takes place in &quot;The Thief Taker&quot; start off in June of 1815. Even as England waits uneasily for news of the wars from the Continent, life goes on as usual -- dinner parties are still being held, the theatres are still open, robberies and murder are still being perpetrated, and the Runners are still apprehending wrongdoers and bringing them to justice. One evening, Henry Morton is summoned to Portman House in Claridge Square. There, he finds young Halbert Glendinning dead from asphyxiating on his own vomit, according to the doctor at hand. However, Morton is not so sanguine that this is indeed the case. Noticing that the 'good' doctor had not made any kind of examination before rendering his opinion, Morton examines the body carefully, and comes to the conclusion that Gledenning's death was probably murder, and that it was brought about by poison. However, he has a hard time selling this notion to either the magistrates or Glendinning's parents, who want to put the scandal of their son's death behind them without any further fuss.<br />Questions however continue to niggle at Morton. Why for example did the hackney driver who had delivered Glendinning to Portman House take off before he was paid? And why had such a mild mannered gentleman as Glendinning taken part in a duel of honour on the very morning of his death with a notorious duelist? And most perplexing of all, why had Glendinning, a young man of good reputation and unsullied character, visited a tavern known to provide children for 'gentlemen's' pleasure? Fortunately for Morton's peace of mind, Geldenning's fiance, Louisa Hamilton, hires Morton to inquire into Glendenning's death. Morton's inquiries however soon raises the wrath of a powerful and implacable enemy, who decides that Morton has to be dealt with one way or the other. Soon, Morton is battling not only to to discover why Halbert Glendenning of all people was murdered, and by whom, but also to preserve his own life and reputation.<br />I enjoyed &quot;The Thief Taker&quot; very much. While the novel did not take place in the Regency drawing rooms that most of us are familiar with, &quot;The Thief Taker&quot; was, nonetheless, evocative of the age. I found myself appreciating the manner in which the authour evoked the atmosphere of the period -- from the cobbled streets of London, to the Surrey countryside; and from the elegant Georgian drawing rooms to the smoky parlors of notorious taverns -- T. F. Banks brought these sights and scenes to life. I also found myself appreciating the way in which Banks vividly depicted all the characters, both primary and secondary, in the book. Henry Morton and his sometime lover, actress Mrs. Malibrant, were especially engaging and appealing.<br />&quot;The Thief Taker&quot; is an incredibly absorbing and compelling read. The plot was a clever, intriguing and sometimes quite perplexing one. And the authour did a wonderful job of maintaing the level of suspense. I liked this mystery novel immensely, and I'm definitely looking forward to the next book in the series.	2001-10-27
1795797:US	52830980	R11G9DK558IZ5T	0066211085	43010755	Rebecca's Tale: A Novel	Books	2	18	22	N	N	a disappointing read	Unfortunately, I was unable to really enjoy &quot;Rebecca's Tale&quot; by Sally Beauman. Partly because I was expecting something along the lines of Jean Rhys's excellent novel, &quot;The Wide Sargasso Sea,&quot; where we got a retelling of Bronte's &quot;Jane Eyre,&quot; except from the 'mad' wife's point to view -- what I got instead was an almost complete rehashing of du Maurier's novel, with the same questions posed: who was Rebecca? Was she an immoral, manipulative and heartless femme fatale? Or was she a beautiful and tragic heroine, much misunderstood and misinterpreted? Was her death a crime of passion? Or cold blooded murder? And after ploughing through 400 odd pages, these questions were still not answered completely.<br />The only new bits, discounting the new characters that were introduced to facilitate this investigation into Rebecca's life, was that we learned a little about Rebecca's past, before she met and married Max -- about her childhood and her mother's purported affair with Max's philandering father. A rather over the top plot line I thought. But even here, doubt was constantly being poured onto these new bits of information, so that you really feel as of you're taking part in some kind of futile exercise! I couldn't help but wonder what the point of &quot;Rebecca's Tale&quot; was, since it raised questions, but resolved very little, except to make one of the investigators, Ellie, realise that there were worse fates than ending up a spinster. <br />Briefly the plot of &quot;Rebecca's Tale is as follows: twenty years after inquest into Rebecca de Winter's death was held, Colonel Julyan, the justice of the peace who had been in charge of the case, receives a mysterious package in which he finds a black notebook and two photographs, one of Rebecca, and another of Manderly, the de Winter estate. The arrival of this package coincides with the arrival of a mysterious young man, Terence Gray, who for reasons of his own, is digging into Rebecca's past. At the Colonel's behest, Gray teams up with the Colonel's daughter, Ellie; and soon, the two are busy interviewing the local people who knew Rebecca, and reading her diaries. The picture that emerges is a slightly confusing one, and more questions are raised than answered. For example: why did Max de Winter marry again so soon after Rebecca's death? (We know why of course, but for Gray &amp; Ellie, this question is most perplexing.) Also, the portrait of Rebecca that emerges after reading her diary for the year of her death is not a very flattering one: the Rebecca of those diary entries appears to be obsessive, manipulative, paranoid, and slightly deranged. But is this the real Rebecca? That is the question that both Gray and Ellie must decide. And this of course leads to the big question of how she died. Did she plan the course of her death, using Max as an instrument of her death? Or did Max finally snap and decide to be rid of a wife he no longer wanted?<br />The problem, for me, is that &quot;Rebecca&quot; by Daphne du Maurier, is one of my all time favourite gothic novels. I remember reading this novel for the first time with great fondness. I also remember taking to the nameless heroine, the second Mrs. de Winter, and disliking Rebecca very, very much. Nothing about this novel made me change my mind about these feelings or notions. The thing is that for me anyway, Sally Beauman's &quot;Rebecca's Tale&quot; did not enhance du Maurier's in the same manner that Jean Rhy's &quot;The Wide Sargasso Sea&quot; enhanced Bronte's &quot;Jane Eyre.&quot; Nothing was really resolved. There was no new dimension or facet to the mystery that was Rebecca and everything remained ambiguously the same. Rebecca remains the enigma that she was in du Maurier's novel, and I just felt as if I had wasted an entire afternoon on nothing.	2001-10-26
1798545:US	52830980	R2IUQ6ZDLA7K4W	0380978326	514211574	Aftermath: A Novel of Suspense	Books	5	6	6	N	N	an exceptional novel	&quot;Aftermath&quot; by Peter Robinson is an excellent and precise look at police procedure. More accurately, it is a look at what happens after the police have 'nabbed' the wrongdoer, but when there are still loose ends and niggling doubts about the case at hand. As usual Peter Robinson has written a wonderfully crafted novel that is an absolutely compelling and absorbing read.<br />When probationary PC Janet Taylor and PC Dennis Morrisey respond to the call to checkout the Payne residence because of a report of suspected domestic abuse, they little expect the horror that awaits them. They find Lucy Payne, badly beaten up in the hallway, and a crazed Terry Payne in the basement, armed with a machete. He attacks them, and mortally wounds PC Morrisey; and while PC Taylor does manage to subdue him, she has to use extreme force in order to do so. For the paramedics and the police who respond to the 'officer down' call, the sight of a badly beaten and concussed Terry Payne, and that of Taylor drenched in Morrisey's blood is horrendous enough, however a further grisly find also awaits them in the basement: the body of a young dead girl, tied to a bed. It looks as if unwittingly, Taylor and Morrisey had stumbled onto the lair of the Chameleon, a sadistic serial murderer and rapist who, magically, over a period of months was able to kidnap young teenage girls off the streets, without ever having been seen or detected. Acting Detective Superintendent Alan Banks has been in on the case from the very beginning, and is jubilant that Payne has finally been apprehended (even if he is currently in a coma). However, a few things niggle at Banks. The biggest being exactly what role Payne's wife, Lucy, played in this horrifying crime. Was she, as she claims, the extremely fragile and abused wife who knew nothing of her husband's exploits? Or was she a reluctant accomplice? Or was she something much, much more? Banks cannot shake the conviction that Lucy was a lot more involved in the crimes than she is letting on. But evidence is in short supply. With time running out, Banks enlists the help of an old friend, forensic psychologist Jenny Fuller, to help unravel the enigma of Lucy Payne.<br />Once I started reading &quot;Aftermath&quot; I simply could not put it down. With each new chapter, fresh horrors were revealed, that kept me absolutely riveted to the page. &quot;Aftermath&quot; is not really an armchair detecting kind of mystery novel. It's more of a look at the truly dark and horrendous side of the human psyche. It is also a look at police procedure -- the never-ending interviews with suspects and potential witnesses, the collating of facts and forensic evidence, and the politics that dictates how an investigation will go. The pacing of the book was brilliant: Robinson juxtaposed the subplots that dealt with Dr. Fuller's investigation into Lucy's past, with those that dealt with Banks's private life, his tying up of loose ends in the case and the subplot that dealt with the police investigation into PC Taylor's excessive assault on Payne, and her spiraling descent into the depths of depression seamlessly. And each subplot was explored and developed beautifully. <br />&quot;Aftermath&quot; is a dark and disturbing novel but a truly exceptional read.	2001-10-24
1802564:US	52830980	R1DVEQBXVSYSML	0451204395	247001191	Mr. Montgomery's Quest (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	an enjoyable read	Miss Charlotte Pelham needs to earn some money quickly so that she can afford to send her younger brother, Jonathan, to university. And when she reads a newspaper advertisement for an opening as a guide for a walking tour across northern England, she eagerly applies. Charlotte, who is a seasoned trekker, believes that she is truly qualified for the job. However, she also realises that no one will hire a woman for such a job. So that when she applies for the job, she presents herself as 'Charles Pelham.' It is Charlotte's devout hope that she will be able to placate the participants of the walking tour into accepting her as a substitute for her absent 'brother.' And since she has also persuaded her brother Jonathan, as well as his best friend, Peter, to be assistant tour guides, Charlotte is fairly sanguine that she will be able to pull things off. However her enterprise starts off badly when the landlord at the very inn that the tour is supposed to start from refuses to allow Charlotte to stay without her brother 'Charles.' <br />Enter the mysterious Mr. Harrison Montgomery, who smoothes Charlotte's way with the landlord, but who expects Charlotte to include him in her walking group in return. And while Charlotte is grateful to Mr. Montgomery for his aid, his dismissive attitude towards her because of her gender, and the manner in which he forces her to include him in the tour, really grates. She has to keep reminding herself that it is this first walking tour that she is leading that is important, and not the very irritating but vastly attractive Mr. Montgomery. And if she intends for this trek to be a success, she will need to pay attention to everyone in the group, and not just the one person who sends her pulses racing, and whose behavior is mysterious and highly suspicious. Why, for example, is he so interested in Jonathan and Peter? And then a series of minor accidents begin to dog the group. With air positively foggy with mystery, Charlotte begins to wonder if this group is just ill-fated, or if something more sinister is going on, and if the mysterious and infuriating Mr. Montgomery is behind it all?<br />&quot;Mr. Montgomery's Quest&quot; is a really fun read. And I was truly tempted by Martha Kirkland's vivid descriptions of the Cumbria landscape and the Yorkshire moors -- I practically wanted to start out on an English walking tour at once! I liked the character of Charlotte Pelham immensely. Here was certainly a heroine that was not in the usual mode. What a refreshing breath of fresh air Charlotte, with her frank, humourous and intelligent ways, was! It took me a while to warm up to Harrison Montgomery, however. Though this was no fault of his (or the authour's). Being of Indian descent myself, I didn't exactly enjoy the sweeping generalisations he made when comparing Charlotte to the women he had known in India. It was only when I recollected that he probably only had traffic with courtesans (and probably not the cream of the crop either) that I forgave all and settled down to enjoying the rest of the novel. Fortunately, Ms Kirkland rehabilitates Montgomery a quarter way through the book, by making him realise early on that he has been doing Charlotte, and most women, a disservice, by dismissing their abilities. A very nice touch that. And the final chapter of the novel, when Charlotte and Montgomery finally declare themselves to each other, was probably one of the most unique and romanctic declarations I have ever read.<br />&quot;Mr. Montgomery's Quest&quot; is a nice mixture of romance and mystery. And was a completely enjoyable book.	2001-10-20
1803618:US	52830980	R3U0YEOWN41C6C	0821770969	81406429	A Rogue For Christmas (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	a really fun read	If you enjoy the kinds of heroes that Patricia Veryan usually writes of -- honourable, dashing, much used and maligned -- then you'll really love Kate Huntington's latest novel dealing with the Whittaker family, &quot;A Rogue for Christmas.&quot; <br />Mary Ann Whittaker was 14 when she first meets Lionel St. James. She was on her way to pawn her pearl ring, hoping to get enough money in order to help alleviate her almost penniless family's Christmas woes, when she is assaulted by a thief and almost murdered. Fortunately for her, Lionel St. James, a gentleman who lives on his wits and gambling skills comes upon the scene and rescues her. Realising that Mary Ann would probably not get very much for her ring, he offers to pawn it for her, so that he can surreptitiously augment the measly amount that the ring would garner. He then escorts her home but leaves before Mary Ann can discover the identity of her hero. The next morning, a Christmas goose and Mary Ann's ring arrives at the Whittaker household. For Mary Ann, who has completely fallen under the spell of her splendid rescuer, this act of kindness and good will completely wins her heart. <br />The years go by, and the Whittakers have met with much good fortune, starting with Vanessa's, the eldest Whittaker daughter's marriage to the handsome and rich Lord Blakely. Mary Ann is now 21, and has been 'out' on the London scene for three years now, but she has steadily refused all offers of marriage, (much to her mother's horror) for she is still in love with her splendid stranger, and has great hopes of finding him one day. And her dreams are answered when St. James attends the pre-Christmas ball that Lord Blakely is hosting. Lord Blakely is not all pleased, for St. James has a reputation of being a notorious womanizer and gambler, and who was disinherited by his own father for his attempted abduction of young female relative. However, Mary Ann is over the moon; and in spite of her brother-in-law's disapproval, she inveigles her mother to invite St. James to spend Christmas with them in the country. Blakely is quite miffed at the turn of events, but there is little he can do except keep a sharp eye on St. James. As for Mary Ann, this is her chance to get to know her knight in shinning armor better, and to help him heal. For she senses that St. James is a man much abused and maligned, and she is determined to help him. However things are not going as smoothly as she had hoped. To begin with, St. James is going through great lengths to keep her at arm's length; and to make matters worst, the woman he is reputed to have abducted (Lady Cavenish), turns up, with amorous designs in mind. And then, St. James's estranged family turns up as well. Can Mary Ann persuade St. James to heal the breach with his father before it is too late? And what of Lady Cavenish's designs? But most of all, can she persuade her noble rescuer to take a chance at loving her?<br />I definitely enjoyed this novel. Mary Ann and St. James were splendidly matched in that his extreme noblility (even in the face of ruin) countered her stubborness wonderfully. Mary Ann believes completely in her 'knight' and no one is going to convine her otherwise. Over and over again, esp when things were looking quite bad for St. James, she waits for him to clarify matters, instead of jumping to conclusions. This, of course, could have been dangerous if St. James had been the villain of the piece. But because we all knew that he is the much wronged hero, such unwavering faith on her part is moving. This was a really fun book, and just the right thing as a Christmas sock stuffer: the much maligned hero has his reputation restored to him, reconciles with his family and wins the heart and hand of the heroine. Furthermore the unlikeable characters get their much deserved comeuppance. Great fun, and a really good read.	2001-10-19
1805852:US	52830980	REM8IEZZ8L5Z3	0451204409	3794394	The Rake and the Wallflower	Books	5	18	18	N	N	brilliant follow up to &quot;The Notorious Widow&quot;	&quot;The Rake and the Wallflower&quot; by Allison Lane continues the sage of the Seabrook sisters, started in &quot;The Notorious Widow.&quot; This time, however, the focus is on Laura and Mary Seabrook and their London Season. Now that Catherine, the eldest Seabrook sister has married the Earl of Rockhurst, she can afford to give her sisters a London Season that they both deserve. However, neither Laura, the beauty of the family, nor Mary, the shy bookworm, are truly over the moon at this turn of events. Laura, who has dreamed and schemed of having a triumphant Season, is furious that she has to share it with her dab of a sister; as for Mary, who is both plain and shy, and who has not quite recovered from the unpleasantness that her family suffered at Catherine's enemy's hands (brilliantly chronicled in &quot;The Notorious Widow&quot;), this London Season is proving to be hell on earth, especially when Laura keeps maliciously pointing out all of Mary's shortcomings and flaws in public for all to see and know. And then Lord Grayson, the Earl of Rothmoor, who is both incredibly rich and notorious comes to town.<br />Laura immediately sets her sights on him in spite of his reputation of being a blackguard where women are concerned: he's supposed to have ruined two young debutantes, and to have actually driven one of them to commit suicide. But, it is shy Mary who actually meets and gets to know the notorious Grayson. And she senses that this is a man much maligned. Furthermore, Grayson seems to be suddenly dodging a lot of near accidents. Too many for them to be coincidence, Mary feels. And she is determined to save Grayson from both the twin threats of his invisible foe and her sister's, Laura's, machinations. Will Mary succeed in her attempts to keep Grayson safe? Or will Laura and Grayson's enemy have their way?<br />&quot;The Rake and the Wallflower&quot; is an excellent follow-up to &quot;The Notorious Widow.&quot; This novel does not have quite that gothicky and malevolent feel that &quot;The Notorious Widow&quot; had, however it is still an interesting read nonetheless, as we follow both Grayson and Mary trying to figure out who is out to get him. And unlike &quot;The Notorious Widow&quot; this novel spends more time on the developing romance between Grayson and Mary. I really enjoyed that aspect of the novel very much. Another thing I liked was the relationship that existed between Laura and Mary. These are two sisters who do not get along very well at all, and Ms Lane does a wonderful job of portraying this not very amicable relationship, snipping, warts and all. And what can I say about the portrayal of self-centered, jealous, living-in-her-own-reality, almost demented Laura? Nothing, except that the Book Huntress is right: it is a gem of a depiction!<br />&quot;The Rake and the Wallflower&quot; is a truly excellent read, and well worth recommending, and raving about.	2001-10-18
1806597:US	52830980	R3IK4VCMN9H5AQ	0821769960	189473481	A Kiss For Lucy (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	an engaging read	I enjoy Mona Prevel's writing style. Her turn for the language is rather elegant, and while her plots have proved, so far, to be a little run of the mill -- focusing on what a young girl, on the threshold of womanhood would be coming to grips with: discovering where exactly she fits into the scheme of things and what her position in life is, and hopefully finding a husband who will love and respect her -- the manner in which she examines these issues have certainly been anything but. In &quot;A Kiss for Lucy&quot; Mona Prevel again looks at these thorny issues, this time though the eyes of Lucy Garwood, the daughter of Josiah Garwood, who happened to be the illegitimate elder son of the late Marquess of Northwycke. This novel is also a sequel of sorts to &quot;Educating Emily.&quot; <br />In that novel, James Garwood, the current Marquess of Northwycke, discovers that his father had had an illegitimate son, Josiah, whom he had treated rather badly. When it is brought to his notice that his niece (Josiah's daughter), Lucy, is penniless and alone in the world, James decides to do something about Lucy's future. It was his plan to farm her out to some distant relatives, where she would be well cared for, but far from Society, so that the likelihood of a scandal ever breaking would be negligible. However, James's younger sister, Maude, takes a liking to Lucy, and insists that Lucy be allowed to live with the family. Maude inveigles her mother, the Dowager, to agree. And so Lucy soon finds herself in the bosom of her new family. But while she is treated well, she frequently feels as if she doesn't quite fit in. All this is made even more obvious because of Maude, who is kind and generous, but who is also incredibly polished, witty and charming. Because of the close resemblance between the girls, Maude's obvious accomplishments makes Lucy feel very inferior indeed. But things take a very awkward turn indeed when Robert Renquist, the Duke of Linborough starts courting Maude. Maude is in two minds as to whether or not she should encourage his suit, and her indecision shows. In an attempt to sweep Maude of her feet, Robert steals a kiss from her. Only it is Lucy he kisses, not Maude. Now Lucy who never expected to find herself falling for someone so far above her in station has to come to grips with the fact that she has fallen in love in vain. For surely Maude will choose Robert, and even if she didn't, would the Duke of Linborough marry someone of Lucy's background?<br />There were two things about this novel that gave me pause. One: I couldn't figure out how Robert could kiss Lucy and think that it was Maude. True, the girls resemble each other closely, but, they are not identical. Also, Robert didn't seem to have this problem in other parts of the novel. I found this sudden blindness on his part completely incomprehensible! And two: I found it a bit creepy reading of Robert's attraction to Lucy, given that when he first meets her she is 15 going on 16. I know this is a completely modern sensibility on my part, and that I should get over it, but I found myself wishing that Mona Prevel had aged Lucy a little. <br />The novel is almost completely told from Lucy's point of view. Through her we see the awkwardness of her position, her insecurity about not really belonging, and her fears that she will never ever find someone who would overlook her 'shady' background. Fortunately, Lucy is a very charming, interesting, and human kind of heroine, otherwise this novel could have been a little weighty. True, she is a little diffident, and she does experience flashes of jealousy now and then; but she is also intelligent, compassionate and gallant. And one cannot but help rooting for her to find happiness and fulfillment. The other characters are a little less well developed. James, who in &quot;Educating Emily&quot; seemed to be on his way to redemption, is again a little pompous in this novel. However the characters of Maude and Robert were deftly handled. Ultimately, whether or not you glean any satisfaction from this romance novel is going to be a matter of personal preferences. I rather enjoyed it, in spite of my reservations about Lucy's age.	2001-10-17
1811558:US	52830980	R1KZNPORE0NQY8	0380819627	424656513	In My Wildest Dreams (Governess Brides, Book 4)	Books	3	14	16	N	N	not a bad read at all	Weighing in on the whole issue of whether or not it is worth reading Christina Dodd's latest romance novel in the Governess series, &quot;In My Wildest Dreams,&quot; and without sounding incredibly wishy-washy about it, I'd have to say that everything is going to boil down to whether or not you are a fan of Ms Dodd's. Because, barring the few glaring instances where she suddenly reverts to modern day colloquialisms, this novel is rather well written, and is a quite interesting take on the original &quot;Sabrina&quot; movie. Here again, whether or not you enjoy this book, is going to depend on how sacrosanct the Audrey Hepburn/Humphrey Bogart movie is to you. However, there are enough differences between the two, to make reading this book rather enjoyable. <br />To begin with the Sabrina-like character in &quot;In My Wildest Dreams&quot; (Celeste) is not the sweetly single-minded and rather naive and romantic waif that we remember from the movie, but rather, is a very single-minded and feisty young woman, who butts heads with Linus-like character, Garrick Throckmorton (who turned out to be the FIRST hero in the entire Governess series that I actually liked), from the very beginning of the novel. Another difference, and one that I liked, was that the role of the 'other woman,' Celeste's rival for Ellery Throckmorton's affections, Lady Hyacinth, was greatly enlarged. And Lady Hyacinth wasn't portrayed as colourless wet blanket!! I liked that Christina Dodd allowed for a friendship to develop between Celeste and Lady Hyacinth. It made the novel a lot more interesting. <br />Only a few things detracted a little from my overall enjoyment of the novel: 1) here and there, Ms Dodd reverted to modern day language. Why, oh why aren't these mistakes caught before the novel gets published? 2) the character of Ellery Throckmorton is for nearly three quarters of the novel portrayed as a very handsome but rather dim, frivious and careless man, suddenly in the last quarter, he becomes very intelligent and observant. Garrick Throckmorton was not the only person thrown by the depths his younger brother suddenly displayed. I was rather flabbergasted too. And 3) the entire espionage motif is a muted strain that weaves itself in and out of the entire novel. And I for one do wish that more had been made of this subplot.<br />Eventhough the movie &quot;Sabrina&quot; is one of my all time favourites, I found myself enjoying &quot;In My Wildest Dreams,&quot; and thought that this novel is the most successful of the entire Governess series. The novel is not a bad read, and I would recommend reading it.	2001-10-13
1811650:US	52830980	R1JQXO5QZE8QG9	0345440013	755444461	Funeral in Blue (William Monk Novels)	Books	4	21	21	N	N	a fascinating read	I've just finished reading the latest William &amp; Hester Monk mystery novel, and I must confess that while I enjoyed it very much, if you're looking for the kind of mystery novel that it full of twists and turns, and that will keep you happily guessing till the very end, you might be in for a bit of a disappointment. &quot;Funeral In Blue&quot; is an interesting and absorbing read, but mainly because of the psychological element in the novel. What makes &quot;Funeral In Blue&quot; such compelling reading is NOT the mystery at hand: who could have murdered Elissa Beck, and the artist's model, Sarah Mackeson, but rather the manner in which Perry delves into the characters of the personalities involved in this novel.<br />Briefly the novel opens with the grisly discovery of the bodies of two women in artist, Argo Allardyce's studio. The dead women turn out to be Sarah Mackeson, Allardyce's model, and Eliisa Beck, the wife of Dr. Kristian Beck (a friend of Hester's) and the daughter of rising political and barrister, Fuller Pendreigh. The nature of the crime causes the police to focus their investigations on Allardyce (who had been commissioned to paint Eliisa's portrait and who happened to be in love with her) and Kristian. Allardyce, it turns out has an iron cast alibi; however Kristian's alibi proves to be shaky at best. And then Monk, together with the detective in charge of the case, discover that Elissa was a hopeless and addicted gambler, and who was near ruining Kristian with her enormous debts. Krisitan is arrested for the murders of both his wife and Sarah Mackeson, however neither Monk nor Hester believe that Kristian could have committed so heinous a crime. Neither does Elissa's father, who commissions Monk to investigate the murders more thoroughly while he undertakes to defend Krisitan in court. Monk's investigations takes him from the gambling slums of London, to Vienna, where Kristian and Elissa first met during the 1848 revolution, where they became comrades in arms, and where they fell in love with each other. For this case seems to hinge on the characters of both Eliisa and Kristian, both one time fiery revolutionaries, all set to change society and the world, and how they have changed since -- for while Kristian seems to have given his life to helping the sick and the poor, Eliisa seems to have exchanged the heady danger of revolution for that of gambling. What had caused Eliisa to fall into such an abyss? Could her murder be linked to her gambling debts? Could Kristian have killed both his wife and the model, Sarah? An added complication for the Monks arises when they realise that Imogen, Hester's sister-in-law, was a gambling cohort of Eliisa's and who may know more of the murder than she is letting on. For Monk and Hester the stakes have never seemed higher as they battle to help a friend, and protect Imogen from discovery and ruin.<br />As is usual with most Anne Perry novels, &quot;Funeral In Blue&quot; is an excellently written and crafted mystery novel. The characters are deftly and thoughtfully portrayed, as is her look at the 1848 uprising. The mystery itself gets resolved suddenly, and there is a gigantic element of coincidence in the resolution of the murders, that gives an air of reality to the whole thing, but which could prove frustrating to all armchair detectives out there. What this mystery novel hinges on however is the riddle that was Elissa Beck. And that is what makes this novel such an absorbing read.	2001-10-13
1812436:US	52830980	R2NY0WU3I6CDV2	0312284454	484787719	Shades of Murder: A Mitchell And Markby Mystery	Books	4	7	8	N	N	not a bad read at all	This latest Meredith Mitchell &amp; Alan Markby murder mystery proved to be a completely interesting and absorbing read for me. The thing I like about this series is that Ann Granger takes the old 'murder in a cosy village' motif, and expands on that so that it becomes something a lot more modern and accessible, and yet somehow manages not to lose that patina of nostalgia. And with &quot;Shades of Murder,&quot; Granger has come up trumps again.<br />About 100 years ago, 'Wicked' William Oakley was tried for poisoning-murder of his heiress wife, Cora, who was about to divorce him and take all her lovely money with her. His was found not guilty of the crime, but such was the feeling in the village of Bramford that he had got away with the crime, that 'Wicked' William left Bramford and England, never to be heard of again. In Bramford, William is survived by his two granddaughters, Damaris and Florence. Now, in their 80s, the sisters hope to sell their crumbling ruin of an estate, and to move to more modern accommodations, in order to live whatever is left of their lives in some comfort. All this suffers a setback, when a young Polish man (Jan Oakley) turns up claiming to be their nephew, the product of 'Wicked' William's second marriage. Jan has decided to put in his claim for half of his great grandfather's estate, to the dismay of Damaris and Florence, and to the fury of the sisters' friends (who include Juliet Painter, the forensic pathologist's sister, Markby's own sister, Laura, who also happens to be the sisters' solicitor, and Meredith, herself). And then, just as the tension is at its highest, Jan is poisoned with arsenic. Leaving aside the question of who would want Jan dead as there are just too many suspects there, the question of the day seems to be where the murderer obtained from, as well how (s)he administered the poison. <br />For Superintendent Markby, this whole case is proving to be a both a professional and personal headache. His fondness for the Oakley sisters makes him want to handle the case delicately for their sakes, however his close relationships with everyone concerned makes it highly unlikely that he will be allowed to investigate Jan's murder. And his fears prove only all too true what the chief constable calls in the heavy guns and two investigators from the London Met are sent down to handle the case. Will the 'outsiders' be canny enough to handle the villagers and solve the case? And will Markby be able to stay out of the investigations, or will he throw caution to the winds and stick his oar in?<br />The Oakley murders have all the hallmarks of a murder mystery set in the Golden Age of Mystery: a cosy English village, the macabre coincidence of two arsenic poisonings that link two murders within the same family, a 100 years apart, a murder victim that had somehow managed to antagonise nearly everyone in the village of Bramford, and where the suspects for this later murder include quite a few prominent members of the village... However Ann Granger deft handling of this old plot device made everything seem new and fresh. The book itself is divided into two subplots -- one subplot deals with the murder of Cora Oakley, and 'Wicked' William's trial; while the second subplot deals with the intrusion of Jan into his aunts' lives and all the mischief and mayhem he causes. Both plots were well crafted and executed, and the development of characters in the second modern plot was especially well done. (However, I was so caught up in the second modern plot that I sometimes felt that the juxtaposition of the William Oakley murder trail plot to be a bit of an intrusion.) There were even flashes of humour as when the two detectives from London come to realise that all the major players in the Jan Oakley poisoning case are especially well connected. The novel also revisits the old question of exactly where Meredith and Markby's relationship is going, but this time, I felt as if Granger was more successful in making the reader understand exactly where Meredith was coming from, and her reservations in tying herself completely to one person or one place. <br />&quot;Shades of Murder&quot; was definitely a fun and absorbing read.	2001-10-12
1814730:US	52830980	R3N3SBZ9T6HRL5	1890208639	429812701	Desert Noir (Lena Jones Mysteries)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	an intriguing read	Here are the reasons why I would recommend this novel as an interesting and intriguing read: the descriptions of the desert, and the novel's spunky and intelligent protagonist, Lena Jones. Mystery-wise, &quot;Desert Noir&quot; by Betty Webb, is a rather straight read: when Lena Jones, ex-police officer, and currently a private detective, discovers the severely beaten up body of her friend, Clarice Kobe, she immediately suspects Clarice's estranged, and soon about-to-be-ex-husband, Jay, of the brutal murder. And indeed evidence seems to point to Jay's guilt. So that Lena is rather surprised when Jay's lawyer attempts to hire her to prove Jay innocent of the charge. Only the fact that Jay happens to be related by marriage Lena's patron of sorts, makes her agree to look into the case. What she discovers is that there was a whole other side to Clarice that she had no idea existed, and that there were more than enough people who wished Clarice dead. <br />Unexpectedly, the search for Clarice's murderer also brings Lena face to face with her own mysterious and violent past. When Lena was four years old, she was brought to the emergency ward, with a bullet in her forehead. The assault had robbed her of all memory of who she was, and who had attempted to murder her. While trying to piece together the reason behind Clarice's murder, Lena discovers a clue about that horrible night all those years ago. Now Lena must not only try to solve Clarice's murder, but also decide if she wishes to discover what happened to her that fateful night and who she really is.<br />The mystery of Clarice's murder is pretty straight forward. Lena questions the suspects and follows the clues until she finally nabs the murderer. What really makes this mystery novel however are the brilliant and vividly beautiful descriptions of the desert, as well as Lena's wry ruminations on how the Scottsdale city fathers are doing their level best to destroy the desert charm of the city as well as what little isleft of the desert. And then there is the dark mystery of Lena's identity and the attempt of her life. Why would anyone want to kill a four year old child? THIS is the mystery that will probably propel me to read further Lean Jones mysteries. For while &quot;Desert Noir&quot; is quite well written, and the characters are rather well portrayed, the entire mystery about who murdered Clarice and why, did not always hold my attention. The mystery surrounding Lena's past however had me riveted. And I look forward to future Lena Jones mystery novels where more and more of Lena's past will be uncovered.	2001-10-10
1816648:US	52830980	RRB0DILNWYP58	0821768743	580735775	A Family For Gillian (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	not the usual fare, but enjoyable nevertheless	If you think that &quot;A Family For Gillian&quot; by Catherine Blair is the usual run of the mill Regency romance novel in which a badly scarred widower marries again for the sake of his children, and where the new wife spends all her time trying to live up to the memory of the near perfect first wife, and where the dead first wife is finally proved to be a real shrew, think again. &quot;A Family For Gillian&quot; is unique in that while Viscount Prescott Avery does indeed marry again in order to provide his three children with a mother, and the romance novel does focus on Gillian's attempts to be good mother to the children and a helpmate to her husband, the whole 'the-first-wife-was-a-real-witch' motif is refreshingly absent. <br />Gillian Hartwell has decided that the mother's idea of the 'right' husband and her own are vastly different. And so she sets out to ruin herself (a little) socially. Unfortunately, her plan works only all too well, and she is completely ruined. And so Gillian has little choice but to accept the marriage proposal that Viscount Prescott Avery makes via a letter. His loneliness and his obvious need of a wife and mother moves Gillian, and she hopefully sets off for Ireland to start her new life. Unfortunately (again) there were several things that Avery left out in his letter -- the fact that he was very much in love with his wife, has yet to get over her death, and that he has no immediate intention of consummating the marriage; and that his children are incredibly hostile to the notion of their father marrying again. Definitely, Gillian has her work cut out for her. But with patience, kindness and compassion, Gillian sets out to win the hearts of her new family. It proves to be hard going, but she has hopes of succeeding with the children at least. Now, if she can only convince their father that he needs her tender care as well...<br />The novel takes place over the space of a year; and the pacing of the novel is as careful and as restrained as is Gillian's handling of her highly fractious family. Catherine Blair does a wonderful job of portraying Gillian's determination to win her new family's acceptance, the setbacks she suffers, and her uncertainty in wondering if she is doing the right thing. Blair also does a wonderful job of portraying the guilt that Avery feels because he is beginning to appreciate Gillian and all she has to offer; and all the emotional upheaval these disloyal thoughts are causing him. And while this is a romance novel that deals with the love that blossoms between Gillian and Avery, the focus of this novel is more that of family -- the healing of the wound that death causes, and the forging of a new ties and relationships.  <br />&quot;A Family For Gillian&quot; is not quite the usual Regency fare, but I found myself enjoying this somewhat grown-up book, that didn't deal with the usual Regency preoccupations of a London Season, dresses, and beaux; and I found myself completely empathising with Gillian, and rooting for her to succeed in her quest to win her new family's collective hearts. And I definitely approved of the fact that Blair allowed for Avery to appreciate the differences between Gillian and his first wife, Elizabeth, without the usual trashing of Elizabeth's character. That was a definite twist for the better. <br />If you're looking for something a little different from the usual, &quot;A Family For Gillian&quot; should definitely satisfy.	2001-10-09
1816874:US	52830980	R2GKNONJKXMHVL	038081286X	184202496	A Place of Darkness: A Mystery of Ancient Egypt (Lieutenant Bak)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	an absolutely riveting read, rich in atmosphere	Lauren Haney's mystery series featuring Lieutenant Bak, commander of the Medjay police in the frontier fortress city of Buhen, set in the 18th dynasty of Queen Maatkare Hatshepsut, is a vital and exciting series, and makes for compelling and avid reading. And this latest Bak adventure, &quot;A Place of Darkness&quot; definitely lives up to the rave reviews that the first four books this series has garnered.<br />While inspecting the vessels (and their cargo) that are leaving Egypt proper for the South (Nubia &amp; Kush), Bak and his police officers discover a cache of jewelry that had been plundered from the tomb of one of Egypt's first pharaohs. Questioning the smuggler however proves frustrating, as he proves to be completely ignorant of the finer workings of this thieving and smuggling operation. However news from Commander Thuty, the officer in charge of the garrison at Buhen, soon pushes this crime into the background. Thuty has been offered the command of the garrison at Mennufer (Memphis), and he wants to take the entire company with him. For Bak, this opportunity is a mixed blessing for this would mean the end of his exile from Egypt; however, moving back to Egypt would also mean bringing himself to the notice of his Queen, and her favourite, Senenmut, both of whom are not fans of Bak. Thuty, gives Bak a month's leave, so that he can visit his father at Waset (Thebes), and so that he can bring to the attention of Amonked, the storekeeper of Amon, evidence that the ancient tombs are being plundered. Bak secretly hopes that Amonked will allow him to investigate these thefts more fully. However Amonked has another task for Bak. For months now a series of fatal accidents have been plaguing the construction of Queen Hatshepsut's new memorial temple. The workers are beginning to spread rumours that the temple is plagued by a malevolent spirit, and this is affecting the progress of the construction. Amonked wants Bak to investigate these &quot;accidents&quot; morefully, for he suspects a more human hand at work. And indeed Amonked's suspicions prove true, for on the very day he takes Bak to the construction site, one of the chief architects, Montu, is found violently murdered. Now Bak must hunt a vicious killer, before more &quot;accidents&quot; can occur. For Bak, success is important as a lot is riding on it -- not only is his own physical well-being dependent on his success but his career as well, for failure to discover this most audacious of killers is bound discredit him and bring him to the attention of Senenmut and Queen Hatshepsut. Something he could definitely do without right now!<br />&quot;A Place of Darkness&quot; is a compelling and brilliant read. Lauren Haney has layered and textured this mystery so effectively, that you literally get the impression of delving deep into the desert sands in order to arrive at the heart of the mystery. The descriptions of the building site, and all the work that is put into building a temple was vivid and evocative. The amount of care that the authour went into to bring places and sites to life is there for all to see. The novel was likewise skillfully constructed and cleverly executed. And the level of tension is well sustained throughout the novel -- Haney successfully builds on the tension, never missing a beat. And there is our police detective, Bak: a very appealing, clever, wily and credible sleuth. Definitely, the Lieutenant Bak series is an absolutely wonderful mystery series, and &quot;A Place of Darkness&quot; is an absolutely wonderful and riveting read.	2001-10-09
1823753:US	52830980	REPV83KDJWOM4	0751525332	310118650	Cruel Habitations	Books	5	9	10	N	N	great reading!!	&quot;Cruel Habitations&quot; is an absolutely absorbing and riveting read. And although this novel is billed as a 'cosy mystery' and the main focus of the book IS the unresolved whereabouts of a young woman, Alison Barnett, this novel does nonetheless center more on the emotional lives of the residents of the cathedral city of Westmead, and on that of Jacquire Darke, Alison's sister. <br />Jacquie and Alison Barnett have led rather restricted and circumscribed lives as members of a nonconformist sect. However, Jacquie is about to be married, and has privately resolved to have at least one grand fling before she settles into the prefect stay-at-home wife mold that is expected of her. She manages to persuade her parents to allow her and her younger sister, Alison, to go to Greece for a holiday. Once there, Jacquie's fast behaviour makes Alison very uncomfortable. But it is Alison, and not Jacquie that ends up in trouble. Alison falls rather hard for another British holidayer, Mike, and later finds herself pregnant. And when her family finds out of her predicament, Alison is literally thrown out onto the streets to fend for herself. Eleven years pass and no one has heard a word from Alison since that fateful day. With the failure of her marriage, Jacquie has moved back home to live with her parents and to take care of them. And with her father's death, Jacquie discovers that he at least had never relinquished hope that Alison would come back home again, for he has divided everything equally between the two sisters. With her father's asserts frozen, it becomes imperative for Jacquie to find Alison at once. Motivated by both guilt and need, Jacquie embarks on the quest to find her sister. And this soon takes her to the cathedral city of Westmead, to the town in which Alison believed that Mike lived. Will Jacquie find Alison happily married, and with children, or will Westmead prove to be a dead-end?<br />&quot;Cruel Habitations&quot; is rich in atmosphere. Kate Charlesdoes a wonderful job of projecting both the confining and claustrophobic environment of both the Free Baptist Fellowship that the Barnetts belonged to, as well as the enclosed and insular world of the cathedral city of Westmead. But what really captivates in this novel is the relationships that the denizens of Westmead have with each other. True, wondering if Jacquie would uncover more clues that would given her a clearer idea of what really became of Alison, did take up a lot of my attention; however I was also caught up with the marriage woes of Sophie and Chris Lilburn, new residents to Westmead -- Sophie's difficulty at conceiving a child, coupled with her feeling of estrangement and abandonment in Westmead, is taking a toll on the marriage. And then there is the strange and suspicious behaviour of the ex-Head Verger, Leslie Clunch, who gives Sophie the creeps. Why is he so obsessed with her? And then there is the unresolved murder of a young woman who was found strangled in the very street that Chris and Sophie now live in... How all these seemingly disparate threads all come together, is what makes &quot;Cruel Habitations&quot; such riveting reading. Kate Charles's prose style is both restrained and lyrical without being florid, and her manner in which she portrays her characters is crisp and to the point. And although this is a rather lengthy tome, that leap frogs over a decade, and between the towns of Westmead and Sutton Fen, I was surprised at the rate in which the novel unfolded -- continuously, smoothly and quickly. <br />&quot;Cruel Habitations&quot; is a great read, especially if you're looking for something a little more substantial than a mere murder mystery. It is such a shame that Kate Charles's novels aren't being released with more fanfare, and that they are not more easily available. I can only hope someone with the power remedies this situation, and soon.	2001-09-30
1824086:US	52830980	R17Q9TOJU9GW8C	0727855972	212180572	Deathtrap	Books	4	1	1	N	N	an engrossing read	When the body of Cornelius Weeks is first discovered, in a car, with the windows all rolled up, and with a hosepipe leading from the exhaust to the interior of the car by way of a narrow crack in one of the windows, the obvious conclusion is of course suicide. However, the police soon have cause to doubt this view, and an investigation into Weekes's background and activities reveals that he was a freelance journalist, who had believed he had stumbled onto to something that would make his career. Imagine DCI George Hennessey's surprise when he discovers that Weekes was actually looking into the conviction of Melanie Clifford, with the idea of proving that she was actually innocent of the charge of murdering Charlotte Erickson, her ex-lover's young wife!<br />About 18 years ago, Charlotte Erickson was found dead on the grounds of her spacious home, with a bullet in a head. An anonymous tip lead the police to Melanie Clifford's doorstep, where the police discovered the murder weapon in the boot of her car. Melanie had always claimed she was innocent of the crime; however the Crown painted a rather vindictive portrait of Melanie as the bitter ex-girlfriend that had ended her rival's life out of sheer spite. Melanie was found guilty of Charlotte's murder, and was sentenced to 20 years in prison. Hennessey has no doubts about Melanie's guilt, mainly because the investigation was handled by one of York's finest detectives, DCI John Cross (now retired). However the more he looks into Melanie's case, the more he becomes aware of the fact that a terrible case of a miscarriage in justice may have occurred. For it is beginning to look as if Melanie was innocent of murdering Charlotte afterall, and that Weekes may have actually stumbled onto evidence that could have exonerated her. Now Hennessey and Yellich must reinvestigate the murder of Charlotte Erickson, to discover not only who murdered her, but who is still willing to commit further murders in order not to be discovered.<br />This is my third DCI Hennessey/DS Yellich murder mystery, and it the one I've enjoyed most to date. The mystery is an interesting and intriguing one, that pays attention not only to the police investigation on hand, but also to the forensic evidence gathered, and to the M.E's findings. So that one gets a more rounded view of all the evidence that is gathered and what it all entails. I also liked the colourful manner in which Peter Turnbull described events, people and places. His prose style however could take a little getting used to: it is quite old fashioned, leisurely and a little sedate -- so that eventhough events unfolded over a couple of days, one got the sense that a lot more time had lapsed. What really irritated me about this novel however was the editing: it is obvious that Turnbull is someone who enjoys words and language, so that it is really quite criminal that this novel was not edited with better care. Barring that peeve, &quot;Deathtrap&quot; is a rather engrossing and enjoyable read.	2001-09-30
1831001:US	52830980	R21HM1T2UPCQZI	067003004X	149763335	The Blue Last: A Richard Jury Mystery	Books	4	11	17	N	N	an absorbing read	To my great surprise, I rather enjoyed reading &quot;The Last Blue.&quot; I had stopped reading the Richard Jury/Melrose Plant murder mysteries somewhere around &quot;The Old Silent.&quot; The thing is, Martha Grimes's style of writing is both lyrical and incredibly sedate; sometimes, this style pays off in spades, and sometimes it doesn't. Added to that was my increasing frustration with the cast of supporting characters (Marshall Trueblood, Aunt Agatha, Vivianne Rivington, Carole-anne Palutski, et al) who frequently came in for more than their fair share of the novel at hand than was necessary, and who sometimes came rather close to kidnapping the novel completely! (I'll leave off completely my impatience over the manner in which both Jury and Plant conduct their romantic lives, nonexistence or otherwise.)<br />&quot;The Blue Last&quot; has a lot going for it. An old friend of Jury's (also a fellow police officer) asks for Jury's help in investigating an event that took place during the early days of W.W.II. Alexandra Tynedale Herrick, the daughter of beer tycoon, Oliver Tynedale, was killed when the Blue Last was hit during an air raid. Also killed in the blast was her nanny's child, Erin. Miraculously, the nanny, Kitty Riordin had taken Alexandra's daughter, Maisie, with her for a walk, and so was spared. Now, the skeletons of a young woman and baby have been found in the remains of the Blue Last, and Jury's friend, DCI Mickey Haggerty, is sure that the remains are those of Alexandra and Maisie, and that more than 50 years ago, Kitty Riordin used the tragic deaths of Alexander and Maisie to put her own daughter, Erin, in Maisie's place. Haggerty is dying of cancer, and this need to prove that the current 'Maisie' is a fraud, is all consuming, and he turns to Jury for help. Saddened by the fact that Haggerty is dying, Jury agrees to help. The murder of Simon Croft, a prosperous broker, and the son of Oliver Tyndale's partner, gives the policemen a 'in' into the Tynedale household. What Jury finds is a strange setup in which the Crofts and the Tynedales seemed to have become one large extended family, and where the enigmatical nanny, Kitty Riordin, is still very much in evidence, though not much liked, and a 9 year old girl, Gemma, whom Oliver Tynedale suddenly brought home one day, and who bears an uncanny resemblance to the dead Alexandra. <br />Why was Oliver Croft murdered? Did Kitty Rioridin replace the dead baby with her own, or is the current Maisie Tynedale the real Tynedale heiress? And who exactly is Gemma? These are the threads that weave this mystery novel together. And what a particularly absorbing mystery novel this was! Grimes did a wonderful job of sustaining the reader's interest as she delved deeper and deeper into the mystery at hand. And I particularly liked the manner in which she depicted the children in the novel. That I think is a real talent: to portray children so realistically. However, a couple of things prevented me from giving it a 5 star rating: the whole Plant-Trueblood Tuscany subplot -- lyrical and diverting though it was, this book would have seemed a lot tighter without that entire interlude; and the use of American colloquialism was a bit odd. And why, oh why do the same characters keep popping up when they have little or nothing to contribute to the mystery at hand (Trueblood, Rivington, Palutski...)? And most important of all: why didn't Jury really look into why Haggerty was so obsessed about discovering if Maisie was Maisie or Erin? On several occasion throughout the novel, he begins to wonder at Haggerty's obsession, but never runs with it. I found this attitude very undetective like, and perplexing. However, slow and sedate though the novel is, &quot;The Blue Last&quot; is a truly riveting and absorbing read. Before you even realize it, Grimes has drawn you into this strange world that the Crofts and the Tynedales inhabit, and into the events that took place more than 50 years ago.<br />&quot;The Blue Last&quot; is a truly excellent read.	2001-09-23
1832607:US	52830980	R3HI5D2MVHBD4J	0312280521	189580758	O Gentle Death	Books	2	6	7	N	N	not that intriguing or interesting	This latest DCI McLeish/Francesca Wilson murder mystery centers on the murder of an unpopular and troublesome 16 year old student, Catriona Roberts, who happens to board at the extremely posh Faraday Trust, a fashionable liberal coed boarding school with a reputation for nurturing musical geniuses. (In fact, Jamie Brett, McLeish's godson attends Faraday, and happens to be one of the few real friends that Catriona really had.) The trouble with young Catriona, we learn, is that not only is she difficult and moody, (and relatively talentless artistically), but she has developed a rather heavy crush on another student, Giles Quentin, Faraday's rising musical star, of whom great things are expected, and has more or less taken to pestering him for his attention. The fact that Giles has no interest in her, and has told her off over and over again, rather brutally, seems to have had no effect on Catriona at all. Catriona has also suddenly exhibited signs of being rather sexually promiscuous, and who has also begun accusing the male teachers of sexually harassing her. Add to that the fact that the students are all cramming for their A levels, and that the school itself is suffering a crisis of leadership (the headmaster is resigning and the trustees are looking at candidates both within and outside the school), and you get the idea that things are rather tense at Faraday right now. And then Catriona is found dead in a bathtub. Everyone assumes suicide; however a closer examination of the evidence reveals that she was murdered, and that she was pregnant. Who could have murdered Catriona and why? Was Catriona murdered because she was pregnant? Or was she murdered in order to preserve the reputation of the school? Or was it because she was in someone's way? For McLeish, it's beginning to look as if half the school and staff had a stake in seeing Catriona permanently silenced.<br />The trouble with \\"O Gentle Death\\" was that I developed an enormous amount of sympathy and understanding for Catriona, and for practically no one else in the book, except perhaps Jamie Brett. The entire air about the novel was one of 'poor Catriona, but she was a rather unpleasant young lady, and oh well, life must go on for us more talented and pleasant types.' Only Jamie seemed to really feel as if everyone had let Catriona down rather badly, not that he was allowed to feel that way for long, however! Also I found it interesting/odd that Faraday's seemed to be populated almost completely with artistically gifted upper middle class kids. The appearance, however slight, of just one artistically gifted working class scholarship student, would have made this novel a lot more realistic, and a little less elitist. I got the sense that I was practically stepping back in time, to the 1950s when reading much of this novel. And then there was that rather odd romance subplot involving a young woman from New Zealand and Matt Sunderland, a sometime regular in the McLeish/Wilson murder mysteries. What exactly this plot had to do with the novel, except get in the way, I have yet to figure out.<br />The basic plot premise of \\"O Gentle Death\\" is an interesting one; and the manner in which Neel spins a web around the idea that Catriona was murdered because she was in someone's way, (whether it was towards the headmastership of Faraday's or musical success of Giles Quentin is left to the reader to wrestle with), was inspired. However the entire atmosphere and prose style was a little too rarefied for me. (I never realised how strong my republican leaning were until I read this book!) I found myself taking very little joy in character development, and skimming through the novel until I got to the bits that dealt with the police investigation. The entire old fashioned, elitist air about this novel really put me off. Sad to say, I didn't think too much of \\"O Gentle Death.\\"	2001-09-22
1835321:US	52830980	R1DIKWT9Z19SLB	074321269X	127561717	The Jasmine Trade: A Novel of Suspense Introducing Eve Diamond	Books	4	11	13	N	N	a plucky heroine &amp; a haunting storyline: definitely a winner	&quot;The Jasmine Trade&quot; by Denise Hamilton is a wonderfully engaging and readable first novel that introduces you to the twilight world of the disenfranchised rich teenage Asian immigrants in Los Angeles. It's haunting and gripping, and is a read that should not be missed!<br />While covering the carjacking-gone-wrong murder of 17 year old Marina Lu, Los Angeles reporter Eve Diamond, fortuitously uncovers a subculture she had little knowledge of: the parachute kids. These are the young teenage children of recent well to do Asian immigrants, who are living in this country with little or no parental supervision. While the parents are jetting all over the world for business reasons, the kids are expected to go to school regularly, get good grades, and lead exemplary lives. Of course, left to their own resources, the kids usually drift, and frequently into gangs. Eve smells a really good story here, and an award winning one at that. Through her contacts with the school board, and the Rainbow Coalition Center, Eve manages to talk to one of these 'parachute kids' and unexpectedly stumbles onto the diary of Marina Lu. Reading bits of the diary, Eve discovers that Marina believed that her much older fiance was two-timing her, and had resolved to discover the truth. Now, Eve cannot help but wonder if Marina's death was actually a murder made to look like a carjacking gone wrong. However before she can read Marina's diary properly from beginning to end, her car is broken into, and all her notes and Marina's diary is stolen. Was this a 'real' robbery or was recovering Marina's diary the primary objective? Suddenly Eve's world seems a lot darker. Why would the diary of a 17 year old be of any importance to anyone, unless it contained something really damaging to someone? And how did this person know that Eve had Marina's diary? Conscious of the fact that she may be in danger, Eve nonetheless refuses to give up her investigation into Marina's death, even if it means putting herself directly into harms' way. What Eve's eventually uncovers will haunt her and change her forever.<br />&quot;The Jasmine Trade&quot; is a really great read. And although for the first half of the book, the plot looks as if it is teetering a little between the subplots that dealt with Marina's death and her obsessive need to know what her fiance was up to, and the parachute kids, everything does come together, so that sticking it out really does pay off! Eve Diamond is a truly plucky and engaging heroine; her character makeup, equal parts investigative zeal to discover what really happened and to deliver some much needed justice, and her own inner sense of self loathing for all the manipulation she exercises in order to get a story, makes Eve really accessible to the reader. I also liked the manner in which Denise Hamilton intersperses bits about Eve's past with the present, so that we get to better understand Eve's character, and what motivates her. The storyline was an intriguing and riverting one, and Denise Hamilton's prose style was fresh and breezy, thus making this novel easy reading. I really enjoyed &quot;The Jasmine Trade&quot; and have no problem recommending it as an excellent read.	2001-09-19
1844124:US	52830980	RGXBV5N36NGPC	0821768255	257556435	Lady Hilary's Halloween (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	a really wonderful read!	Lady Hilary may be Lord Werrington's oldest child, and his only daughter, but she has felt little of her father's cherishing care or attention. Now, the impoverished earl has decided to marry off Lady Hilary to the very rich but rather commonplace Mr. Brawley -- Werrington will get some much needed cash to augment his almost empty pockets, and Brawley will get an aristocratic wife who will hopefully pave his way into the London ton. The only person unhappy about this turn of events is Lady Hilary, but what can she do with no dowry and no money of her own? Soon, Lady Hilary finds herself on her way to Drake Hall, Brawley's country estate, where she is to spend a month in the country as Mr. Brawley's guest, getting to know her future husband a little better, as well as his forbidding mother and his two obnoxious sisters. Hilary hopes that she will be able to make the best of a bad situation, but her hopes are soon confounded. The Brawley women seem predisposed to dislike her on sight, and her future husband is as commonplace as she remembers. <br />A reprieve arrives unexpectedly in the form of her friend, Lady Lily Carhill. Upon hearing of Hilary's plight, Lily sallies forth to her rescue. She concocts a plan to whisk Hilary away from the Brawleys and takes her to London in order to find Hilary a proper husband. A new haircut, and a few really beautiful gowns later, plain Hilary now looks amazingly elegant, and even has a few admirers of her own. But the one gentleman who disturbs Hilary even as he invades her thoughts and day dreams is Lily's current flirt, Lord Grayden. Hilary doesn't approve of Lily's friendship with Greyden especially because Lily happens to be married, even if her husband is too sick to squire her about town. However she keeps her reservations about Lily's and Greyden's relationship to herself. Hilary is also confused by all the mixed signals Greyden keeps giving her as he alternates between teasing and disapproving of her. But all this pales when Lily begins to become jealous of all the attention that Hilary is garnering, and Hilary is left to wonder how soon it will be before Lily requests that she return to Drake Hall, and if she will be able to come up with an alternative plan to marrying Mr. Brawley before this occurs.<br />I really enjoyed reading &quot;Lady Hilary's Halloween&quot; -- though I'm not sure why Mona Gedney entitled this novel so: the plot had practically nothing to do with Halloween. The plain, intelligent, and compassionate Lady Hilary is quite unlike the usual run of the mill heroine. Lady Hilary is an old fashioned kind of heroine, the sort that was popular about 20 years ago -- older, on the 'shelf,' plainnish yet elegant, kind compassionate and intelligent -- she fights for those that she cares for, and shoulders the burden that is her lot, frequently not of her creation, and for an unappreciative and demanding family. And I must say it was a treat to read a romance novel with this kind of heroine again. (And the fact that Greyden matches Hilary in many of her qualities was a plus also.) The only thing I didn't buy was the sudden rehabilitation of Lily -- a one line mention in the epilogue. Otherwise, &quot;Lady Hilary's Halloween&quot; is a quiet, restrained and tasteful romance novel, and a truly enjoybale read.	2001-09-10
1850141:US	52830980	R14PNUSIOZBHSJ	0312269935	482009736	Saintly Murders: A Medieval Mystery Featuring Kathryn Swinbrooke	Books	5	4	5	N	N	at long last: another Kathryn Swinbrooke mystery	The War of the Roses may be over for the time being, however intrigue is still the game of the day. And apothecary Kathryn Swinbrooke finds herself uncomfortably in the middle of another mare's nest that includes murder, political intrigue and fraud, in the &quot;Saintly Murders.&quot;<br />It's 1472, and Kathryn is summoned by the Archbishop of Canterbury to investigate the death of Roger Atworth, a friar in the Order of Sack. Roger Atworth was once a soldier and a member of Dame Cecily of York's (Edward IV's mother) household. As a soldier he led a very violent and lawless life, however, he later repented his sinful ways, gave up the secular life and joined the Order of the Sack. His honest repentance for his past sins and his compassion and understanding towards others earned him a reputation for holiness, and he even became Dame Cecily's confessor. So that when his dead body is discovered in his cell, and the marks of stigmata are found on it, there is a clamour to see him beatified. Soon, people are claiming to have witnessed sightings of him and to have been cured of various ailments as a result. The Archbishop wants Kathryn to play Devil's Advocate and to argue against beatification by proving that there is a logical and scientific/medical explanation for everything that has occurred. On the surface, her task seems easy enough. However, Kathryn soon finds her investigation heavy going -- the friars of Roger's order are openly hostile, cagey and secretive; and a preliminary examination of Roger's body shows that he did not die of natural causes at all, but was murdered. Kathryn begins to suspect that it was his ties to Dame Cecily that got him killed, especially when one of Edward IV's most trusted spies turns up dead outside the friary. Now, Kathryn's academic search for the truth has turned into a manhunt for a ruthless killer. But will she be able to discover who this killer is and what it is he is after before he strikes again?<br />I'm really glad that Paul Doherty (a.k.a. C. L. Grace) has decide to continue the Kathryn Swinbrooke series. This series was one of my favourites, and I was really disappointed when he stopped writing it a couple of years ago. And what a relief that even though it's been quite a while since the last book in this series, this latest Kathryn Swinbrooke novel is as fresh and as riveting as the other four. As usual, Doherty has peppered the novel with enough detail and atmosphere to keep the novel authentic and accurate to its time period. And Kathryn Swinbrook is as strong minded, vital, appealing and intelligent as ever. The plot is a clever and intriguing one that kept me guessing for quite a while, and the book fairly reeked with suspense and tension as I wondered if Kathryn would unmask the murderer before (s)he struck again. <br />This novel is a truly brilliant historical murder mystery, and definitely makes for riveting reading.	2001-09-05
1854030:US	52830980	R2AA2CR1CS19QY	0821768638	436924314	His Lady Midnight (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	a goodish read	&quot;His Lady Midnight&quot; possesses a rather interesting plot involving a very unconventional and beautiful heroine on a quest to save lives and a rather dashing and handsome hero who comes to her aid. It is not your usual light Regency romance reading, and would, I suspect, made a much better reading if it had been a much longer novel. However it is still a rather goodish read.<br />Lady Phoebe Brackenton has a very dangerous secret life: she uses her wealth to buy the freedom of the unfortunates who have committed petty crimes out of necessity, and have been condemned to being transported to the penal colony in Australia. Very often this means being forever separated from their families forever because few have the money to buy their way back to England once their sentence is over. Phoebe buys their freedom off the transportation ship (illegally, of course), and then she smuggles them to more remote counties where she finds them work and sanctuary. Once their sentence is up, they are then in a better position to return to their families and start again. Phoebe has been successfully doing this for quite a few years now, however her good luck has just run out. In her latest venture, she all but walks into a trap, and barely escapes in tact. She makes for a carriage, thinking it her own, and is aghast to discover that it actually belongs to Lord Galen Townsend.<br />Galen Townsend is at the dockyards, looking for his drunken and wayward brother when Phoebe fairly hurtles into his carriage. He recognises Phoebe as the restained and beautiful heiress, who in spite of her beauty, wealth and connections, seems to flit through the ton only at it's fringes. He is curious as to why she is at the London dockyards at this hour of the night, and her fevered request for help, moves him to help her. Realising that the authorities suspect and are after Phoebe, Galen whisks her off the his friend's Brighton home, Thistledown Cottage, so that she can maintain a low profile until the authorities loose interest in her (though how a unchaperoned young lady of society living with an eligible bachelor she's not related to or engaged to could be considered as maintaining a low profile, was a bit of a mystery to me).<br />The more time the couple spend together, the more they come to admire, respect and fall for each other. Galen is fairly bowled over by Phoebe's courage, compassion as well as her beauty; while Phoebe finds herself falling under the spell of Galen's good looks, charms and kindness. However their blossoming relationship suffers a few setbacks, when first Galen's' spoilt and manipulative younger brother, Carr, turns up at Thistledown Cottage, and later when the authorities center in on Phoebe. Will Galen's and Phoebe's fragile relationship be able to withstand the twin assaults of Carr's petty malice and the dragnet the authorities have placed around Lady Midnight?<br />&quot;His Lady Midnight&quot; is not a bad read -- both Galen's and Phoebe's characters were well developed. I especially liked the heroine, Phoebe Brackenston, who was not only courageous and compassionate, but who was also sensible to boot. It's not often one comes across a heroine of Phoebe's caliber, and it was a treat to do so. I also liked that both Galen and Phoebe treated each other with respect and deep regard, without playing the kinds of games that usually passes for &quot;flirtation.&quot; Much of the plot was interesting and believable as well, thought the ending was a little rushed. Also, more could have been done with the Galen-Carr plot line, I thought. And, without giving too much away, I found the projected 'all's well that ends well' ending of the novel to be highly improbable. I didn't think that there was much chance for Phoebe and Galen could resume their lives 'as usual' in England barring some kind of special dispensation. In spite of what I thought was an unlikely ending however, &quot;Lady Midnight&quot; was a rather enjoyable read, and should not disappoint.	2001-09-01
1854427:US	52830980	R3Y7GST6C6PLI	0312276842	500564825	The Weaver's Inheritance (Roger the Chapman Medieval Mysteries)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	a brilliant and chilling read	&quot;The Weaver's Inheritance&quot; is a follow-up mystery novel to the very first Roger, the Chapman adventure, &quot;Death and the Chapman.&quot; However, it is not necessary to have read that novel first, as Kate Sedley does a wonderful job of blending elements of that novel with this one, all the while keeping things fresh and interesting.<BR>To summarize briefly, in &quot;Death and the Chapman,&quot; Roger was asked by the wealthy Bristol weaver, Alderman Weaver, to locate his young wayward son, Clement, last seen outside a seedy London tavern. Not only was Roger unable to find young Clement, but all the indications were that Clement had met with a rather nasty end. Things have settled down quite a bit since then -- Alderman Weaver's sole surviving child, his daughter Alison has married another weaver, William Burnett, and the two businesses have merged, with Alison being the natural heir to this very prosperous enterprise. So that when a bedraggled stranger, with a passing resemblance to Clement, turns up claiming to be the long lost Weaver heir, Alison and William are naturally suspicious. The Alderman however is all set to accept this stranger as his long lost son. Aghast at the turn of events, Alison turns to Roger for help: she wants Roger to investigate the man's claims and to prove beyond all doubt that he is not her brother. Roger takes a little persuading but is soon busy calling on those who knew Clement before his disappearance to see if they can shed any light on the matter. But it isn't too long before he realises that in order to discover if the man currently residing in the Weaver household is truly Clement or not, he will have to return to London, to the stews and back into danger: for the best way to discover if this Clement is the true one or not is to discover what happened all those nights ago in London...<BR>The Roger, the Chapman series by Kate Sedley is one of my favourite medieval mystery series, and is almost always, consistently good.Each murder mystery is almost always steeped in an atmosphere of chilling evil, and can be downright scary at times. Another thing I like about this series is that she always frames each Chapman adventure around the political maneuverings of the day -- Edward IV's tenuous hold on the crown, the manner in which the political doings abroad can affect things in England -- all this comes through in each and every Roger Chapman adventure. And of course there is Roger Chapman himself, one of the most unique private inquiry agents of all time: an ex-monk, who chose to become a peddler because he cannot bare to be indoors for more than a couple of days at a stretch, and whose intellect and natural ability to solve puzzles has earned him the respect and friendship of the Duke of Gloucester, no less. One of the strains that runs through each Chapman novel is the prevailing question: will Roger finally settle down and give up his wondering ways? As an avid fan, I can only hope that that day is far in the future, so that we can all enjoy more Roger, the Chapman adventures.<BR>&quot;The Weaver's Inheritance&quot; is definitely a brilliant read, and one that will keep you guessing till the very end. Is the stranger the real Clement or not? Is there something more sinister to this Clement's sudden apperance? And why is Alison so sure that this man is not her brother? This mystery novel is full of twists and turns that will definitely keep any avid mystery fan happily engrossed for quite a while. A truly brilliant read.	2001-09-01
1856446:US	52830980	R1UP1GZECRXZBV	0821770950	783806896	The Incorrigible Lady Catherine (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	18	21	N	N	a heroine that is easy to empathise with	&quot;The Incorrigible Lady Catherine&quot; is a retelling of that age-old story of how a young girl, told over and over again by her family that she's wild and wanton, begins to believe her own bad press, and seems poised to make the biggest mistake of her life. Elena Greene took such great care to paint Catherine's plight in such a sympathetic manner, that my feelings of compassion and empathy were easily aroused on Catherine's behalf, and I rooted for her to find the love and understanding that was so absent for her within her own immediate family before she did something totally rash that would blight her life forever.<BR>When Catherine's father foils her attempt to elope with Lord Vernwood, Catherine little expects (eventhough she realises that he has little love for her) that he would exile her to her grandaunts' home in the Lake District. And in order to ensure that she does not runaway from them, he even provides her with two jailers in the form of two rather burly and surly servants. However, Catherine is determined to runaway to Vernwood. Apparently her 'nearest and dearest' have done a very good job of convincing her that she is a very wild and wanton young girl, and she's sure that only marriage to a rake could save her from becoming a &quot;fallen&quot; woman. A rake like Vernwood, although she doesn't love him, should &quot;save&quot; her. Unfortunately, her plans fall through when Catherine comes across a young child who has fallen into a fast moving stream. Catherine saves the child's life; but before she can effect a quick getaway, her jailers turn up and grimly escort her back to her grandaunts' home. The next day, the child's brother, Philip Woodmere, turns up at her grandaunts' home to thank her properly for her gallant rescue of his sister. Philip is drawn to Catherine's beauty and defiant air, and senses that there is more to this complex young woman than meets the eye. With her grandaunts' approval, he attempts to become her friend, and to entertain her during her stay at the Lake District. It doesn't take too long before the pair begin to fall in love with each other. However there are several obstacles to their blossoming relationship. To begin with everyone expects Philip to marry his childhood friend and neighbour, Charlotte. Furthermore, Catherine is the daughter of a duke, and Philip is only a gentleman farmer. Her father would never countenance such a match no matter that he wants Catherine off his hands. And then there is Catherine's notion that the love of a good man would not be enough to keep her from straying. Can true love prevail against such overwhelming odds?<BR>The one thing one must keep in mind when reading &quot;The Incorrigible Lady Catherine&quot; is that Catherine is quite young, and has never really had the benefit of an affectionate and older woman's counsel, so that she easily believes what everyone tells her about her wildness. Add to that the stifling and loveless atmosphere in her father's house, and you get a young girl ripe to commit the biggest folly of her life. Elena Greene depicts all this brilliantly. This uncertainty, if Catherine will fall into folly, or if Philip's love will save her, is maintained throughout the novel, right till the very end. And it this doubt that makes this novel such compelling reading -- in spite of the fact that this is a 'light' Regency romance novel, things look as if they could go either way. And this is what makes &quot;The Incorrigible Lady Catherine&quot; worthwhile reading.	2001-08-30
1856718:US	52830980	R1OJWGL4N9QCIX	0451202546	567240126	The Devil's Heiress (Historical Romance, Signet)	Books	4	21	23	N	N	an excellent read	Here's what I hope will be a helpful hint: while it is not absolutely necessary to have read &quot;An Unwilling Bride&quot; by Jo Beverly, it really does help if you're very familiar with the plot and characters of that book. I read &quot;An Unwilling Bride&quot; many years ago, and while some things were familiar, I had forgotten a lot of what occurred in that novel, and as a result, was sometimes completely at sea in &quot;The Devil's Heiress&quot; because quite a few incidents from the former were referred to in the latter, and while everything was explained (eventually) I spent much of the book feeling as if I had wondered in the middle of a rather disconcertingly familiar play, and this kept distracting me, at times, from enjoying this otherewise rather excellent novel.<BR>The Napoleonic Wars are over, and Major George Hawkinville (&quot;Hawk&quot;) has returned home hoping to find peace and solace. Not that he has much hope to achieving this, for home also means coming face to face with his selfish and caddish father. As usual, Hawk's fears prove well founded, for his father has borrowed heavily against Hawkinville Manor in order to prove his right to the now dead Viscount Deveril's title and wealth. Unfortunately, the dead viscount had bequeathed his wealth to his erstwhile fiancee, Clarissa Greystone. So currently, Hawk's father has a title but no money, and with the need to repay the loan of twenty-thousand pounds hanging over their heads. Hawk's father's solution is for Hawk to court Clarissa and to marry her for her money, eventhough he thinks that Clarissa had murdered Deveril. Hawk however decides to try and find the evidence that Clarissa had indeed murdered Deveril, rather than marry that murderous young lady. And so he sets out for Gloucestershire, to the seminary that Clarissa is currently residing in. Where he finds that Clarissa, far from being a deadly femme fatale, is actually a very plain looking but rather witty young woman. Dicovering that Clarissa is about to spread her wings and make for the festive town of Brighton, Hawk follows her there, where he begins his slow but determined pursuit for Clarissa's heart and hand, all the while trying to discover if she had had anything to do with Deveril's death. Clarissa Greystone is a young woman full of secrets and fears. (This is where if you're unfamiliar with &quot;An Unwilling Bride&quot; the plot can become increasingly frustrating.) From the first few chapters, the reader will be able to glean that there was something fishy about Deveril's death, and that Clarissa did somehow figure into this, and that the merry band of noblemen, known as 'The Rogues' also had something to do with his death, and that Clarissa is actually rather fearful of, (and angry at) the Rogues. Although Clarissa is rather plain in appearance, she's always dreamed of being courted by a handsome and dashing young gentleman. Certainly Hawk fits the bill. And although she suspects that Hawk is a fortune-hunter, she is beginning to fall in love with him. But what is she to make of his frequent references to murder, and his claims at being very good at ferreting out the truth? Can she trust Hawk with the truth of how Deveril died? And what will happen when she discovers who Hawk really is?<BR>&quot;The Devil's Bride&quot; is actually a really fun read. Hawk and Clarissa seem ideally suited to each other in character, intelligence and spirit. And it made for satisfying reading to see them grow closer and closer together, eventhough you could guess what would happen once Clarissa realised the truth about Hawk's interest in her. I also enjoyed reading the bits that dealt with Clarissa spreading her wings and coming into her own, and enjoying life. Another thing I did like was that the Rogues were painted in almost sinister terms for quite a bit of the novel, which fits in with Clarissa's fearful attitude towards them, and with Hawk's feelings of suspicions where they were concerned. &quot;The Devil's Heiress&quot; also sees the resurrection of one of the Rogues's most dangerous of enemies, and the ending promises that there will be another Rogue novel in the offing in the near future. In spite of my nitpicking, I really enjoyed reading &quot;The Devil's Heiress.&quot; I think that Jo Beverly truly created something special in Hawk and Clarissa, and this made the hapily-ever-after ending all the more satisfying. A truly fun read.	2001-08-30
1858923:US	52830980	RSKCXP1IU9O2S	0892967307	672731324	The Red Room	Books	4	7	8	N	N	engaged my interest from start to finish	I rather liked &quot;The Red Room&quot; by Nicci French. This novel is not quite like French's previous novels -- it is a little more subdued and restrained. The heroine, Dr. Kit Quinn, a forensic psychiatrist, is also a little different from previous French heroines: while interviewing a mentally unbalanced derelict, whom the police suspect of being a sexual deviant, Kit is rather badly scarred in the face when the derelict, Michael Doll goes spare and tries to attack the policeman in the interview room. Add to this the unpleasantness of being ignominiously dumped by her longtime boy friend, and you realise that Kit has lost a lot of her self-assurance and confidence. This makes her a little diffident at times, and very anxious at others. This is the tone that more or less pervades over much of the book; it can be exasperating for some readers, but if you put aside your preconceptions about how an investigative heroine is supposed to be or act, than &quot;The Red Room&quot; becomes a very interesting and rewarding read. Another interesting point about this mystery novel and it's heroine, is that Kit seems to operate best when she acts on instinct. When she first confronts the murder of the homeless runaway, Lianne, instinct makes Kit look at other unexplained murders/deaths, as she's very sure that that Lianne's death was not a one off. She gets very little support from the police and her own colleagues, who spend much of the novel downplaying her instincts and insinuating that Kit has somehow lost her edge and her astuteness. Here again is another difference between Kit and other heroines in the mystery genre: Kit is frequently unable to explain herself properly in order to garner the support she needs from the police and her colleagues. This, again could be off-putting, but I found that it added a kind of texture to the novel, making it all the more unique and interesting. What Kit shares in common with other mystery novel heroines is her fine sense of justice. Eventhough she's not quite sure if Michael Doll is a murderer or not, she refuses to take part in a kangaroo investigation that seems to be heading in the direction of fitting him up for the killings, solely because he is a rather repulsive and off-putting individual. Kit fights the police investigators all the way so that they will not take the easy way out and concentrate on one suspect only, thus losing sight of the 'big picture' sotospeak. &quot;The Red Room&quot; is a really interesting read. Kit Quinn, with all her anxiousness, compassion for the victims involved and their families, and courage to follow her instincts in spite of all the opposition she faces, is a rather engaging heroine. Some may find that her lack of assurance and her restrained manner makes her a rather uninteresting and unlikely heroine. However I found these traits drew me in more, and made her a lot more accessible than she otherwise may have been. The mystery itself was an interesting, if somewhat common one; however it was a well written and executed one, and engaged my interests from start to finish. A really good read.	2001-08-28
1868023:US	52830980	R3NDF9VBN8T50O	1559705701	213556383	The Chalon Heads: A Kathy and Brock Mystery	Books	5	2	2	N	N	a brilliant read	Another intriguing and riveting installment in the Kathy &amp; Brock mystery series. And like &quot;Malcontenta&quot; you can be assured that this latest novel, &quot;The Chalon Heads,&quot; is as intricately plotted, with well developed chracters, and interesting plot twists, as any avid mystery reader could wish. <br />&quot;The Chalon Heads&quot; opens with DCI Brock and DS Kathy Kolla of New Scotland Yard being summoned to Cabot's, a well established institution that deals with the sale of rare stamps. Brock and Kathy think that they've been asked around to investigate a serious theft. To Brock's dismay however, the invitation from Cabot's was made indirectly for one time East End gangster, Sammy Starling. Apparently Sammy's young wife, Eva, has gone missing, and he has been receiving anonymous letters hinting that she has actually been kidnapped and that a ransom demand will definitely be in the offing. Several things about this entire episode has Sammy really worried. To begin with, Sammy is a rather serious collector of British first issue stamps, and the anonymous notes have all been stamped with rare and valueable Chalon Heads (an almost full front portrait of a young Queen Victoria), and the stamps have also been sliced, thus rendering them invalueable. Another unsettling point, Eva bears a very strong resemblance to the young queen portrayed on the stamps. Because of his previous dealings with the police, Sammy feels as if he can only trust Brock. However, Brock would like nothing better than to walk away from the whole affair as he doesn't trust Sammy an inch. Orders from up-high puts Brock and his team on the case. And when the ransom demand comes for Sammy to buy a very rare stamp so that Eva can be exchanged for said stamp, Brock and his team put into action a plan to switch the real stamp for a duplicate. But the plan goes horribly pear-shaped and Eva turns up dead. But worse is to follow: the real stamp has gone missing and Brock is accused of stealing it. Now it is up to Kathy to vindicate her boss and to discover who exactly is behind this very elaborate plan to ruin Brock's reputation and destroy Sammy. But whom can she trust? Obviously someone on the team stole the real stamp. But whom? And is Sammy definitely in the clear for both framing Brock and murdering Eva? Or was the whole thing just an elaborate way to get rid of Eva and keep the police off his back? These are some really hard questions to find answers for, and time is of the essence, for the longer Kathy takes to come up with a solution, the more difficult it will become to exonerate Brock.<br />&quot;The Chalon Heads&quot; is a really cleverly plotted mystery novel that will definitely keep you guessing to the very end. Each new development in the case opens up a host of possibilities and suspects. I just kept going to and fro, between suspects and ideas about what was really going on. This is one of the most complex and ingenious of mystery novels that I've ever come across; and DS Kathy Kolla is steadily becoming one of my favourite detective heroines. &quot;The Chalon Heads&quot; is definitely a brilliant read.	2001-08-22
1870357:US	52830980	R55WHQN3UJL4I	157566674X	124264242	Midsummer Murder: A Lindy Haggerty Mystery (Linda Haggerty Mysteries)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	an all right read, but a little disappointing	Linda Haggerty frets her way through another murder mystery that initially seemed to promise a lot but somehow failed to deliver.<br />The Easton Arts Retreat is celebrating it's 50 anniversary, and the Jeremy Ash Dance Company has been invited to open the festivities. For Jeremy Ash, the director and founder of said dance company, this gig is a very important one, as, not only was he was the proud recipient of the prestigious Easton Scholarship, but also because Marguerite Easton was one of the few people to offer him support and help when he was trying to kick his drug addiction. However a very grim portent of things to come greets the dance company as soon as they reach the retreat. The retreat is nestled amongst some very sheer mountain-like hills, and one of the students, Larry Cleveland, at the summer camp seems to have accidentally fallen to his death. The local sheriff, who has a personal grudge against Marguerite Easton (his ex-fiancee had dumped him to marry one of the Retreat's counselors) and who seems to be dangerously homophobic, is all set to make more of this accident than it is, when another student goes missing. <br />Lindy is seriously disturbed by all that she's witnessing. The Retreat seems to be a hotbed of secrets and innuendo. To begin with, it looks as if Larry Cleveland was not a very well liked young man, and it appears as if he was very adapt at providing sexual favours in order to get what he wanted. The sheriff thinks that he was all set to blackmail one of the Retreat's counselors, when he was murdered by said counselor, who just happens to be the very one that married the sheriff's ex-fiancee. Could the sheriff be right? And then there is the strange behaviour of Jeremy Ash. Jeremy seems to be very tense and very much on edge, and it is affecting the manner in which he deals with the members of his company, and most importantly, with Biddy, Lindy's best friend. What does Jeremy know, and could it seriously harm the Easton Retreat? Ontop of it all, Lindy's husband, Glen (who disapproves of her tendency to fall into murder investigations) is about to turn up for the weekend. What will he have to say about this latest suspicious death that Lindy seems to be mixed-up in? Not only that, but Jeremy has invited Bill, the ex-policeman with whom Lindy has been solving mysteries (and with whom Lindy has a highly charged relationship), down to unofficially take a look at what's going on, because he fears what the sheriff may do. What will happen when Glen and Bill finally meet? And where is the missing student? Is he dead, or has he merely run away? And if so, why?<br />&quot;The Midsummer Murders&quot; held out a lot of promise. From the manner in which the first few chapters were shaping, I expected a whole more than was finally delivered, esp given Jeremy's and his counselor friend's strange behaviour. As with the previous mystery in this series, &quot;The High Seas Murder&quot; a lot of things occurred that had very little to do with the mystery at hand -- Lindy's relationship with Bill, what this could mean to her marriage, Biddy's frustration over her relationship with Jeremy, etc -- with the clues and hints about what really going on in this murder mystery strewn about for the reader to collect and piece together. And then, suddenly in the last quarter of the novel, the mystery suddenly took off, and everything fell into place. However, I still came away feeling shortchanged. Many characters in this novel could have done with a lot more development, and that tight pacing that keeps you glued to the pages was frequently absent. This book had all the potential of being a really good read, instead it was filled with distractingly extraneous bits. <br />If you like game-shows like Fox's &quot;Murder in Small Town X&quot; where you get to piece together all the relevant information, from all the nonessential stuff made available to you, then this novel should satisfy amply.	2001-08-20
1875580:US	52830980	R3LK60JRSTPF1T	0451204018	65297647	The Spanish Bride (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	a goodish read	&quot;The Spanish Bride&quot; is a sequel of sorts to &quot;Scandal in Venice&quot; and is a story of separated lovers, misunderstandings and misconceptions, and a dangerous and poisonous letter writer. <br />Peter Everdean, the Earl of Clifton meets and falls in love with Carmen Montero, the widow of a Spanish nobleman (Carmen also happens to be a gatherer of information for the English) in the midst of the Napoleonic Wars in Spain. They marry, but only share one night of marital bliss, for the very next morning, the French attack the British camp, and Carmen is taken prisoner. When the battle is over, Peter is informed by a friend that Carmen is dead, and that she had been a spy for the French all along. Meanwhile, Carmen manages to escape from the French. She makes it back to the British camp but is told that Peter is dead. Brokenhearted, Carmen leaves the area and makes for Serville.<br />Six years go by, and Carmen has spent much of her life in Europe (rather than in Spain) together with her daughter and her old nurse, mainly because she has been the object of a poisonous letter writer, who accuses her of terrible and unspecified crimes. Carmen's only clue as to the identity of this mysterious letter writer is that the letters have all come from England. Tired of being hounded by this unknown enemy, Carmen decides to go to England in order to face down her malicious foe. Imagine her shock then, when at one of London's tonnish dos, Carmen comes face to face with her supposedly dead husband, Peter.<br />Peter Everdean, has decided that it is time he remarried; and has decided to start attending tonish affairs in order to find a suitable bride. And he has all but made his choice, when he spies his treacherous and supposedly dead wife. Angrily he confronts her with her 'crimes.' Carmen is at first overjoyed to see her husband, but her joy soon turns to anger at his accusations. The couple part in anger, with nothing resolved between them. For Carmen, her problems have now multiplied: not only does have an implacable and unknown enemy, she now also has an angry husband who believes that very worst of her, and who may take her daughter away from her when he learns of her existence. Enter Peter's sister, Elizabeth (the heroine in &quot;Scandal in Venice.&quot;) Happily married, Elizabeth is resolved to see that her brother shares in the same pleasure, and she feels that Peter's future happiness lies completely in Carmen's hands. And so she takes upon herself to bring this estranged couple together. Will Elizabeth succeed in her plans to solve Peter's and Carmen's marital woes and reunite them? What of Carmen's poisonous letter writer? Carmen is sure that Peter will petition for an annulment so that he can marry his chosen English bride. But what will he do when he discovers that he has a daughter?<br />&quot;The Spanish Bride&quot; is a rather goodish read. One cannot but help admire Carmen's strength and grace, especially when she's suddenly confronted with adversity on all sides. Peter Everdean, however took a while to warm up. But he finally did step out of his cardboard mold, thank goodness. All in all, given that much of the material is not terribly new or different, &quot;The Spanish Bride&quot; proved not to be a bad read.	2001-08-16
1876829:US	52830980	RZ20PRAHEK096	0312868561	487234881	The Deadliest Art (Provence)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	an engrossing read	This is my first Michel Danton mystery novel, and I will definitely be reading the first book in this series, &quot;To Die In Provence&quot; and be keeping an eye out for future Michel Danton mystery novels. Hard edged and gripping, this kind of mystery novel is not my usual fare, however I was quickly won over and found it quite difficult to put this book down. The identity of the murderer and his cohorts is known from the very beginning, so that this mystery novel is not so much about the authour engaging the reader to play armchair detective; rather &quot;The Deadliest Art&quot; is more of a psychological study about the workings of a deranged mind, and of the sway that this mind has over those that come into contact with it.<br />Michel Danton is busy preparing for his upcoming marriage to Jennifer Bowen, keeping his quarrelsome chef-parents in check, getting to know his about-to-be mother-in-law, and regretfully contemplating his resignation as commander of the Special Circumstances Section of the Police Judiciare (he had promised Jennifer that he's give up his very dangerous job for something a little more sedate), when a body of a young girl washes up on one of the beautiful Provence beaches. A check with missing persons reveals that the body is that of 13 year old Caroline Davis, an American who had been on holiday with her parents in Bruges, and who the Belgian police believe was kidnapped by unknown American woman. A preliminary autopsy reveals that the girl had been sexually assaulted, and that her body had been disfigured by some kind of acid wash. To Michel, it becomes obvious that the girl had been specially selected for whatever horror she had been put through. With little to go on, Michel and his team begin sifting through every little piece of information that they can get at, hoping for a breakthrough, when they receive news that there been two more kidnapping attempts. But the women involved in each kidnapping seems to be a different one. Is therea whole bevy of crazed women on the loose kidnapping young girls? Michel would like to be able to concentrate on his upcoming wedding, but finds his attention continuously being taken up by this strange murder-kidnapping case. Will he be able to catch the mind behind this criminal spree before another girl turns up dead?<br />&quot;The Deadliest Art&quot; has two plot-lines that work quite independently of each other until they intersect in the last few chapters, and Norman Bogner does a wonderful job of juxtaposing each plot line without missing  beat. One plot line deals with the police investigation and Michel's upcoming marriage ceremony. The other plot line deals with the murderer's life, motivation, the murderer's losing grip of reality, and the spell that the murderer casts on all those around. Eventhough the murderer's identity is revealed within the first few chapters, I'll not go into too much depth about this particular plot line, because it was this plot line that was gripping and held my interest. I do wish however that Norman Bogner had spent a little more time on the police investigation of this kidnapping-murder than he had done. Uncovering the sad, bizarre and shocking history of the murderer lent a touch of horror to this mystery novel that was engrossing, but I would have enjoyed it a lot more if he had concentrated more on the police investigation that he did on Miche Danton's private life.<br />Nitpicking aside, &quot;The Deadliest Art&quot; is an engrossing read, and worth all it's rave reviews.	2001-08-15
1879977:US	52830980	R2Y7REGO70AF9R	0821768263	466005518	The Sinister Spinster (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	a thrilling read from start to finish	This novel is just chockfull with plot devises, never ending action, and tension that just never lets up. A country house party, agents for the Crown, a Russian prince who has his own personal agenda, spies, missing diplomatic papers, murder, and in the midst of all this a growing attraction between a clever and intrepid young woman, and an espionage agent who fears that the woman he is beginning to fall in love with may be arrested for treason if he doesn't unmask the real traitor in time -- &quot;The Sinister Spinster&quot; has everything!<br />Adam Darrach, the Marquess of Falconer, is at the Earl of Derrings country house party mainly to keep an eye on Prince Peter Alexander Bronyeskin, who seems to have the Grand Duchess's ear, and the English Foreign office is unsure as to just how much influence he has on the Czar, and to what effect he will use his influence. However he soon finds his attention centering on Miss Elizabeth Mattingale, Lady Derring's charming and witty, but much used companion. His interest in her is even more aroused when he realises that Elizabeth and Prince Alexi are old friends. Could Elizabeth and the Prince be working together for some more nefarious purpose? And then a few of the Earl's papers go missing, and suspicion falls on Elizabeth. The Marquess is outraged and vows to discover who the real thief is and protect her. But things soon take a more sinister turn when one of the guests is murdered. Again, Elizabeth is the chief suspect. And even the Marquess is beginning to wonder about Elizabeth -- is she as innocent as she seems or is she hiding her more sinister self under her charming facade? For the Marquess it is a case of his heart being at war with his brain. As for Elizabeth, much as she's beginning to fall for this very autocratic but entirely lovable Marquess, she realises that she cannot simply stand by and wait for her friends to absolve her of all crimes. And so Elizabeth resolves to try and discover who the murderer and the real spy is. Who will arrive at the truth first? Will Elizabeth and her Marquess finally come to an understanding with each other concerning their growing attraction for each other? Or will the spy-murderer implicate Elizabeth so deeply that there can be no hope for them?<br />&quot;The Sinister Spinster&quot; is really enjoyable read. With each new chapter, something happens to up the stakes for the real spy-murderer to be apprehended before Elizabeth is arrested for something she is quite innocent of. The tension is quite palpable. And the romance that develops gradually between the always in control Marquess and the very feisty Elizabeth, was a joy to read. I liked that the Marquess found his usual calmness deserting him at the thought of the danger that Elizabeth could be facing. I thoroughly enjoyed &quot;The Sinister Spinster&quot; and have no problem recommending it as a good read.	2001-08-13
1880614:US	52830980	R1H5QNU6CQDWV8	0451204107	85976531	The Scent of Lilacs (Regency Sognet Romance)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	a good old fashioned gothic romance	&quot;The Scent of Lilacs&quot; by Barbara Hazard possesses all the ingredients of a gothic romance -- Edwin Whittingham receives unexpected news that he has inherited his dead great-uncle's wealth and home in the coastal town of Lechton. And so, happy at the prospect of no longer being penniless, Edwin and his younger sister, Katherine, make for Bryce House. There is however one small condition to this inheritance: Edwin must stay at Bryce House for a whole month, nights included, or else forfeit the inheritance. And when Edwin and Katherine finally reach Bryce House, they discover the reason behind this strange condition: apparently Bryce House is haunted by a gentleman ghost, and a weeping lady. Edwin and Katherine must prove their mettle by sticking it out for an entire month.<br />Of course neither sibling believes in ghosts. But their belief suffers a few knocks when first they realise that all the servants refuse to spend the nights at the house, and when they themselves begin to hear and see the ghosts. However it is only to Katherine that the weeping lady appears before, leaving behind her a scent of lilacs... Strong minded and practical, Katherine, however refuses to allow a couple of ghosts to faze her -- finally she has a home of her own, and money to be able to indulge in new clothes and a horse. She even finds romance with a dashing and enigmatic neighbour, Luke Tremaine. But as the deadline for month's stay at Bryce House draws to a close, things begin to fall apart for Katherine. Edwin disapproves of her romance with Luke, and the ghosts seems to have become nosier and more sinister, and seem to have decided to concentrate on haunting only her. Katherine is beginning to fear that the ghosts are driving her to madness. Could she be right?<br />&quot;The Scent of Lilacs&quot; is mainly a gothic romance because while the romance between Katherine and Luke does figure into this novel quite a bit, it comes of as being a little incidental. I, for one, wastotally caught up in the haunting and the fact that halfway through the novel, only Katherine was singled out as the beneficiary of all that ghostly dos. It is rather obvious what is going on and who is behind all the incidents, but Barbara Hazard does a masterly job of making you wonder if Katherine would indeed be frightened into madness or if she would be saved. Katherine is a rather unique heroine in that not only is she beautiful, intelligent and practical minded, but that she also suffers from bouts of depression, thus giving credence to Katherine's own fear that she may be losing her mind. However, I did find it a little galling that given that Hazard had painted Katherine as a clever and sensible young woman, that she did not allow for Katherine to suspect what was really going on, even when she had the evidence before her very eyes. It was a little irksome (for me anyway) that Katherine had to be rescued, though I'll admit that this did add to the &quot;fearful&quot; atmosphere of the novel, as you wondered if Katherine would be rescued in time or not.<br />If you're in the mood for a gothic romance very much along the lines of a Victoria Holt-like novel, then &quot;The Scent of Lilacs&quot; will more than satisfy you. The romance bit is almost completely sidelined, but the ghostly goings-on will more than make up for that lack! &quot;The Scent of Lilacs&quot; is something quite different form the usual Regency romance novels, but is nonetheless still quite a fun read	2001-08-12
1881823:US	52830980	R2DWXU79KF73SL	0312265743	895091468	The Devil's Apprentice	Books	5	5	5	N	N	a fun read	The Nicholas Bracewell Elizabethan Theatre series is hands down my favourite Elizabethan mystery series. Edward Marston (the authour) does a masterful job of combining broad humour with an intriguing plot and an in-depth look at the workings of a theatre troupe in 16th century England. Another plus: this series is almost always consistently good.<br />England is currently blanketed with horrendously bad winter weather, and the Westfield's Men face a season of being out of work, when good fortune practically leaps into their laps. They are offered the chance to give a weeek and a half' s worth of performances at Silvermere, Sir Michael Greenleaf's country house in Essex. There are however two conditions that must be met: 1) that they perform at least one entirely new play, and 2) that they take on an apprentice -- 10 year old Davy Stratton, the son of merchant Jerome Stratton, a friend of Sir Michael's. On the surface, these conditions seems completely easy ones. But little do the Westfield's Men know what is in store for them!<br />From the very beginning Nicholas senses that there's something not quite right about Davy's relationship with his father. Nicholas's suspicions prove to be correct when, on a reconnaissance trip to Silvermere, Davy runs away the very first chance he gets. And when Jerome Stratton returns his errant son to Nicholas, both father and son claim that Davy's horse ran away with him. Nicholas doesn't buy the story, but cannot get Davy to open up to him. Soon after, Davy's begins to pull some rather nasty pranks on the other apprentices, and earns himself a rather unappetizing nickname with the players: the devil's apprentice. Nicholas cannot quite make out what's wrong with Davy. He sense that the boy is an innately a good and nice child, but that Davy is also very unhappy. And he is quite disturbed that he cannot get Davy to trust him enough to tell him what is wrong. But soon other matters to do with the company takes up all of Nicholas's timeand concern. To begin with, Laurence Firethorn, the company's leading actor falls victim to a mysterious illness that incapacitates him at the most inconvenient of times. Then the players receive word that a group of Puritans who reside near Silvermere have declared their intention to make sure that the players never make it to the manor, and who are bent on sabotaging the performances. The havoc and mayhem that the players face culminates with the death of an audience member during one of their performances. Firethorn is sure that the company is accursed and that sorcery is at the root of all their problems, but Nicholas is sure that all this is the work of an intelligent and cunning mind, and he is determined to discover what exactly is going on at Silvermere.  <br />Why does Davy keep running away? Was the audience member murdered, or did he die of natural causes as the local doctor claims? What illness has befallen Firethron? And are the Westfield's Men truly accursed as Firethorn believes? These are the strains that hold this particular Nicholas Bracewell mystery together. The resolution of this particular mystery was a deceptively simple one, but right up till the end, when all is revealed, you can be sure of that this mystery novel will provide you with some truly enjoyable reading. &quot;The Devil's Apprentice&quot; is a really fun read from start to finish; Edward Marston has set just the right tone -- Elizabethan England and the world of the players comes to life before your very eyes. Definitely an interesting and intriguing read.	2001-08-11
1882025:US	52830980	R1E047G0MLUEMX	1564743624	969640624	BELLA DONNA	Books	5	3	5	N	N	a fun read	The biggest assert this novel possesses is its vivid imagery (food, clothing, country side, etc.) and it's brilliant descriptions of the city of Florence in 1494. Another assert that this mystery novel possesses is its determined, intelligent and unlikely heroine, Giuditta. The mystery itself is a rather straight forward one, with very few twists and turns. And as another reviewer pointed out certain details, and the manner in which Giuditta arrived at resolution of the mystery, are rather sketchy. Nonetheless, this is a rather delightful little mystery.<br />When Emilia Novella, the quarrelsome wife of the elder Novella son, Carlo, is found dead in the courtyard, it is almost certain that she was murdered. Evidence points to the fact that Bella, the wife of Carlo's brother, Domenico, with whom Emilia had a rather acrimonious relationship, is the murderer. However, Giuditta, the cook, and Bella's only friend in the household, refuses to believe that Bella murdered Emilia. And almost at once she uncovers evidence that Bella was framed. But by whom? The finger of suspicion points to someone in the Novella family. Was it Emilia's own daughter, Antonia, who had quarreled bitterly with her mother over her right to choose her own husband? Or could it be Bella's own husband, who seems distractingly unconcerned that Bella has been arrested for Emilia's death? Angry with the Novellas for their lack of concern about Bella's fate. Giuditta vows to discover who murdered Emilia and framed Bella. With her best friend's help, Giuditta begins to look more closely at each member of the Novella family, and realises that she is close to making a discovery when first she is warned off the investigation, and when later, the murderer begins to stalk her. However Giuditta is firmly resolved to help her friend, no matter the cost. Will she be able to unmask the murderer before Bella's trial, and before she herself becomes the victim of this determined killer?<br />I enjoyed reading &quot;Bella Donna&quot; very much, in spite of the fact that the mystery was a little sketchy. I do wish however that there had been more character development overall, and that Cherne had gone into more detail with regards to the motives and backgrounds of the suspects.  Barbara Cherne's vivid descriptions of the city of Florence however truly does bring the city to life (but a map of the city, and all the places Giuditta visited would have been nice). Cherne also successfully portrayed the rather stiff and cold family dynamics of the Novellas. The clever play on the phrase 'bella donna' was a nice touch too. &quot;Bella Donna&quot; was a really fun read, and I hope that Barbara Cherne will write more Giuditta mystery novels in the future.	2001-08-11
1883839:US	52830980	R3F38ZU2SKK2N	0399147330	300291221	The Shape of Snakes	Books	5	7	8	N	N	an absolutely brilliant and haunting read	Need to find a book for the summer that features a strong and resilient female protagonist and with plot premise that will not only blow your mind, but whose resolution will leave you literally reeling for quite a while? Then definitely, &quot;The Shape of Snakes&quot; by Minette Walters is the book for you. This novel is on my list of the best mystery novels that I've read so far, along with &quot;The River of Darkness&quot; by Rennie Airth, and &quot;A Place of Execution&quot; by Val MacDermid. One of the reasons why I found this novel so wonderfully remarkable is because this book boasts of one of the most intriguing and compelling of heroine-investigators that I've ever come across. We know her only as 'M' and little else, not much of a physical description (though we do learn that she is quite good looking), not much of a character description (although we do learn to admire her drive and determination), and very little historical background. So that her almost obsessive quest to discover what really happened to poor Annie Butts (the murdered black woman), not only makes us respect her but makes us question her agenda. At one point in the novel, another character describes her as a rather frightening woman, and I quite understood this character's point-of-view: I for one would never want to be on the wrong side of M!<br />The plot is a deceptively simple one. In 1978, Annie Butts is found dead in front of the street she lives on. Everyone is keen to pass the death off as an accidental one. Only M refuses to join the ranks; she's sure that poor Annie was murdered. However the hostile reaction of M's neighbours, the police, and her own husband's lack of support, together with the strain that all this hostility and harassment is having on M's own mental well-being, causes M to back down. However, M never forgot what happened to Annie or to her, and slowly, bidding her time, M waits for the perfect opportunity to reinvestigate Annie's death. Twenty years later, M'spatience pays off. Armed with all the information that she has slowly been collecting over the years, and with a new sense of inner peace and determination, M openly starts asking questions and rattling her old 'friends' and her own husband's sense of well-being. Why does M need to discover what really happened to Annie? As the novel and investigation unfolds, we come to understand part of the reason why M is so determined to uncover the truth. But just when you think you know everything and what motivates M, Minette Walters punches you in the guts by ending the novel in a truly poignant manner, that is almost soul ripping (at least it was for me).<br />&quot;The Shape of Snakes&quot; is a hard and honest look at hatred and fear, and how people who would never think of themselves as prejudiced, allow for such emotions to flourish is society, because few are willing to stand up and take a stand. The novel is masterfully written novel, and is a truly excellent and haunting read.	2001-08-10
1886639:US	52830980	R6CZKKMVBW1QH	082176991X	198256973	The Incomparable Miss Compton (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	a fun read	Sarah Compton has spent most of her adult life taking care of her younger cousin, Persephone Compton, and running her aunt and uncle's home. An orphan, with little money and passable good looks, she has more or less carved out a niche for herself in her relatives' household by being responsible and dependable. And when Sarah's aunt finds herself unable to chaperone her daughter for her London Season, the responsibility naturally falls on Sarah's capable shoulders. However, Sarah is beginning to find this Season to be a rather trying one. Persephone is a very beautiful but rather spoilt and willful young lady, who has gained the reputation of being not only the Season's 'Incomparable' but also very exacting -- the number of marriage proposals that she has turned down for the most trivial of reasons, is giving even tempered Sarah headaches! And then Persephone sets her sights on the politically active and suave Lord Malcolm Breckonridge. Sarah is sure that the two will not suit, but can she persuade either party of this fact?<br />Lord Malcolm Breckonridge needs a wife. But not just any wife. He needs one that can run a household efficiently, and who was intelligent and sensible. And while Persephone Compton, beautiful though she is, does not fit his needs, Sarah Compton does. And so Breckonridge begins his courtship of Sarah, but in such a guarded manner that neither of the two ladies is sure which one of them it is that he is courting. Perspehone wants Breckonridge solely to augment her position in society, while Sarah is finding herself completely susceptible to Breckonridge's charms. However, she is looking for a love match, while Breckonridge is for a competent housekeeper. Will Sarah be able to persuade Breckonridge that what he is actually looking for is love?<br />I enjoyed reading &quot;The Incomparable Miss Compton.&quot; Sarah Compton is the kind of young woman that would usually be fitted up in the 'best friend of the beautiful heroine' role, and which noone but myself seems to find really interesting. So it was a real treat for me to find such a character in the leading role, and for the charismatic and dashing Breckonridge to realise that Sarah is a real gem, and that she is more than worthy of his attention and love. The characters are rather well developed, and it was nice to come across characters from previous Regina Scott novels again, such as Anne &amp; Chas Prestwick for &quot;The Unflappable Miss Fairchild.&quot; The novel unfolded smoothly, and everything was resolved in a satisfactory manner. <br />&quot;The Incomparable Miss Compton&quot; was a rather fun and satisfying read for me. And one that I would have no hesitation in recommending.	2001-08-08
1889470:US	52830980	R1134E3TBXOSTJ	0821768123	633948871	The Missing Brides (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	a fun read	Aunt Clare, her cats, and her matchmaking schemes (last seen in &quot;The Missing Grooms&quot;) are back for another matrimonial adventure. This time her task is to see that Matthew Sever, the Earl of Raleigh, marries for love and not convenience.<br />Remembering her promise to see that all the 'grooms' that she had prevented from marrying her niece (in &quot;The Missing Grooms&quot;) find true love, Aunt Clare is all set to fulfill her obligation to Matthew Severs. Unfortunately, the 'groom' would rather do without her help. Almost completely penniless, Matthew has decided to marry for money; and he and his family have carefully chosen four very eligible and rich young women, and have invited them (along with their parents) to the family estate, where Matthew will make his choice. Matthew has decided to be quite methodical about things, and feels that love would only cloud the issue. Aunt Clare however has other ideas; and manages to misdirect Matthews 'brides' by sending them to Lancer Manor. The Lancers are neighbours to the Severs, but a family feud has destroyed the close relationship that the two families once had. Aunt Clare firmly believes that Matthew and Penelope Lancer are meant for each other. Will the sudden appearance of an entire Severs house party at the Lancer Manor be the unlikely manner in which the breach is healed and two star-crossed lovers are brought together?<br />Penelope Lancer is feeling a little overwhelmed. Used to leading a rather solitary life, she's completely unprepared for the sudden onslaught of guests -- even if they are not her's. She's also quite unprepared to discover that she still harbours a tendre for Matthew, esp when she discovers that the young ladies are his prospective brides, and that she never made the list of prospective brides! But she completely loses her temper with him when he starts scolding sweet and harmless looking Aunt Clare and accusing her of trying to promote a match between Penelope and him! So, Matthew Severs has no intention of marrying her? Well, fine: SHE certainly has no intention of marrying HIM. However, Matthew's first choice of a bride goes missing the very day after he proposes; Matthew suspects Aunt Clare of having spirited her away. Aunt Clare however pleads her innocence, and offers to hunt down the missing girl for him. Soon, Matthew, Penelope and Aunt Clare are dashing about the country in pursuit of the missing bride. Will this adventure to find Matthew's missing bride bring Matthew and Penelope together? Is Aunt Clare correct in assuming that Penelope and Matthew are destined for each other, and that Matthew should marry for love and not money? And what has become of Matthew's missing bride?<br />&quot;The Missing Brides&quot; is rather fun read. The plot devices are very straightforward, and you can pretty much guess how Matthew 'loses' his brides before they even go missing. However this did not detract from the enjoyment that this novel provided at all. Matthew Severs is a very likable hero -- good-looking, honourable and honest, with his own set of inner demons, thus making him a tortured hero as well. It was satisfying to see him finally get the happiness and woman he deserved! And I liked Penelope Lancer very much as well. It was gratifying to see Penelope who had till now, been leading a completely solitary life, find love and excitement. However the ending was a bit too much, even though it tied things up neatly. Without giving too much away, I'll just note that the road to true love does NOT run smoothly at all! <br />&quot;The Missing Brides&quot; was a really fun read. And I hope that there are future Aunt Clare matchmaking adventures in the wings waiting to unfold.	2001-08-06
1892355:US	52830980	R3CBQ3IKZOQRKB	031228036X	73353552	Face Down Before Rebel Hooves	Books	4	11	11	N	N	enthralling read	It's been a year since Mary, Queen of Scots, fled Scotland and pled for asylum in England. And although she is now a prisoner, dependent on Elizabeth I's charity and mercy, Mary and her allies still plot to make her Queen of England. <br />Sir Walter Pendennis is in Augsburg, negotiating for a secret loan on Elizabeth I's behalf, and he is looking forward to returning to England, and to settling down in his country manor with his wife, putting his days as a diplomat behind him, when tragedy strikes. Eleanor, Sir Walter's wife is run over by a farm wagon, and is seriously injured. Believing herself to be at death's door, she confesses to her husband that she has been conspiring with the Earls of Northumberland and Westmorland for quite a while now to overthrow the Queen and to place Mary on the English throne. Sir Walter is both angered and appalled at the news. His only thought now is to somehow thwart the conspirators, and to minimize his errant wife's role in the conspiracy. Discovering that his old friend, Lady Susanna Appleton is in Hamburg, Sir Walter goes to her for help. His plan is for Susanna to impersonate Eleanor and to somehow insinuate herself into the conspirators' circle. Sir Walter assures Susanna that practically no one will discover the impersonation as Eleanor has more or less had little contact with any of the conspirator's (save through letters). Eager to prevent any kind of uprising, Susanna agrees to help Sir Walter, eventhough she senses that there is something that Sir Walter is holding back.<br />Susanna's lover, Nick Baldwin, however is not so sanguine. Distrustful of Sir Walter and his motives for involving Susanna in this dangerous enterprise, Nick does some digging of his own, and discovers that Eleanor had actually been murdered, and that the order to murder her had come from someone close to Northumberland. Obviously the conspirators did not trust Eleanor at all. Fearful of Susanna's safety, Nick quickly makes for England. Will Nick arrive in time to warn Susanna of the danger she is facing? Will Susanna mange to ingratiate herself with the conspirators? What exactly is Sir Walter hiding, and exactly what kind of deep game is he playing? And will the conspirators pull off their coup?<br />These are the threads that bind this very suspenseful mystery novel together. With &quot;Face Down Before Rebel Hooves,&quot; Kathy Lynn Emerson does an excellent job of maintaining that taut suspenseful air, where you wonder if Susanna will finally be unmasked; and if the killer, who believes that (s)he has failed in his/her attempt to murder Eleanor, will strike again. Since this mystery novel is based on historical fact, we all know how the coup panned out, however, I thought that the authour did a truly wonderful job of bringing this entire conspiracy to life. Susanna Appleton remains as wonderful, and as strong and as resilient as ever. And it makes for wonderful reading to see Susanna and Jennet, her clever and resourceful ally, grapple with the mystery at hand and solve it. This novel is quite a fun read, and is, in my opinion, part of a series that is one of the better mystery series dealing with Elizabethan England.	2001-08-03
1892585:US	52830980	R17G36B6AQCO9H	0060199644	864734587	Listen to the Shadows: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	a good dark mystery	This is a rather unsettling and dark mystery novel that centers on psychologically disturbed teenagers and dysfunctional familial relationships. However, &quot;Listen To The Shadows&quot; is also a very interesting and absorbing read, and in spite of the fact that the prose style is sometimes a little heavy going, I'd urge anyone who picks up this book to plough on: it's worth the effort.<br />Suzanne Milner is a graduate student who is currently working on the thesis that a lack of communication skills and violence is somehow interlinked. In order to see if her premise holds any credibility, Suzanne has been allowed to work with the troubled male teens of the Alpha Project. However all her excitement and enthusiasm for her research comes to a crashing halt when her neighbour and best friend, Jane's six year old, Lucy, and her baby-sitter, Emma, go missing one day. Suzanne had been jogging in the park that both Emma and Lucy had gone missing from, and Suzanne thinks she saw one of the teens she's currently working with moving about furtively in the park. Motivated by curiosity as well as fear, Suzanne goes back to the park, and discovers the body of the dead baby-sitter under the antique water-wheel. Investigation into Emma's past reveals that she had misrepresented herself to Jane, and that Jane's previous baby-sitter, who had been a friend of Emma's is also missing. D.I. Steve McCarthy, who has been assigned to the case is determined to discover who murdered Emma; unfortunately he is hampered by the fact his only witness to the crime is a six year old who seems to be obsessed with monsters that live in the park. He also feels that Suzanne knows far more than she is revealing. Unlukily for McCarhty, Suzanne has had unfortunate dealing with the police, and is reluctant to be more forthcoming. And for D.I. McCarthy it is becoming a race against time to see if he can make sense of Suzanne's evasions in order to apprehend a murderer. And then the body of another youngwoman is found in the park. Will Suzanne be able to put her reservations about the police behind her in order to stop a very twisted murderer from striking again?<br />&quot;Listen To The Shadows&quot; is a rather dark and disturbing mystery novel about need, desire, dysfunctional familial relationships, and children. The plot premise is an interesting and riveting one -- each new development in the investigation opened a whole host of possibilities, as to suspects and motive. And while Danuta Reah's prose style is sometimes a little heavy handed, the effort made not to skim pages really paid off. This is a really absorbing and brilliant read, that will tax the brain cells and keep you riveted for hours!	2001-08-03
1900539:US	52830980	R3KFFMJHZWDCDT	0060198702	484846709	Murder Boogies with Elvis	Books	5	8	8	N	N	a funny and enjoyable book	It's very sad that this latest mystery novel, featuring the detecting skills of sisters Mary Alice and Patricia Anne, is probably going to be the last Southern Sisters mystery, since the authour, Anne George, passed away earlier this year. This series has been one of the few that I enjoyed more for the 'slice-of-life' angle than I did for the mystery at hand. Anne George did a wonderful job of bringing to life the affectionate yet sometimes contentious relationship that the two sisters had; and I truly enjoyed all her vivid descriptions of Birmingham, Alabama, from the blooming forsythias, to the huge iron statue of Vulcan that stands at the crest of Red Mountain, and whose naked derriere has mooned half the citizens of Birmingham from time immemorial. This is a wonderful series that never missed a beat and remained vital and funny till the very end.<br />&quot;Murder Boogies With Elvis&quot; opens with Mary Alice's announcement that she's about to marry for the fourth time, to Sheriff Virgil Stuckey. Virgil and Mary Alice are going to officially announce their engagement to his children (Mary Alice has already taken care of informing her nearest and dearest) after the benefit that's being held at the Alabama (a restored theatre), to raise funds for the restoration of Vulcan (the iron statue). Virgil's son (Buddy, who happens to be an Elvis impersonator) and his son-in-law (Larry) are going to be performing at this benefit in the final act, along with 28 other Elvis impersonators, and Mary Alice has obtained tickets to the event for Patricia Anne and her husband, Fred. Given the sisters' knack for falling over dead bodies, you'd expect one to turn up right about now, and you'd be right! Right in the middle of the Elvis act, one of the impersonators, who was dancing between Buddy and Larry, plunges to his death right into the orchestra pit, literally at the sisters' feet!<br />The next day brings intelligence that the dead man was not one of the official impersonators at all, and no one really knew who he was, and his death is being tagged as murder. It is later revealed that the dead man was actually a Russian ballet dancer, here in the US on a cultural exchange program and that he was attached to a New York ballet company. What was a Russian ballet dancer doing in Alabama, pretending to be an Elvis impersonator? But even the revelation that he had made an appointment to see Mary Alice's daughter, Debbie, who happens to be a lawyer, doesn't deflect the sisters form more important and immediate concerns such as Mary Alice's approaching nuptials, and the return of Patricia Anne's daughter, Haley, from Warsaw. And then Patricia Anne finds the murder weapon in her purse, and suddenly the murder and the murderer seems to much closer to the sisters than either would like, esp when the finger of suspicion falls on Mary Alice's son-to-be and son-in-law-to-be...<br />The mystery in this novel may seem to be a little of an afterthought in &quot;Murder Boogies With Elvis,&quot; but this one of the rare instances where this fact did not bother me at all. I was totally caught up in what was happening within Mary Alice's &amp; Patricia Anne's family: would Mary Alice actually find a wedding dress that didn't make her sister shudder, and would Patricia Anne have to wear a magenta matron-of -honour dress? What really makes this entire series work is the entirely humourous yet natural manner in which Anne George relates things -- the dialogue, the manner in which events unfold -- all these seem a little off the wall at times and yet comes across as being totally natural and realistic, because of the masterful manner in which Anne George handles things. I really love this series, and I'm going to miss the fact that this may be the last book in the series that she ever wrote.	2001-07-29
1905128:US	52830980	R7MZ4GE0HKIXR	0399147632	461044774	The Music of the Spheres	Books	5	19	19	N	N	the best historical mystery novel I've read so far this year	This is definitely the best historical murder mystery novel that I've read so far this year. The plot is an intriguing and fascinating one, and Elizabeth Redfern's prose style is crisp and colourful -- her descriptions of England in the late 18th century is so gothically atmospheric! Carefully plotted and tightly paced, I found myself simply unable to put this book down until I reached the conclusion of this spellbinding novel.<br />The events of this mystery take place during the summer months of 1795. The French Republican army is making mincemeat of the European forces that have gone up against it so far (England included), and espionage seems to be the game of the day. Indeed, the consensus at the Home Office is that England must be overrun with French spies right now as the French army seems to be incredibly well informed as to English troop dispositions. The natural suspects are of course the emigres that fled from France in order to avoid the bloody retribution of the Revolution, and it is the job of Jonathan Absey to track down such spies. However Jonathan has another obsession of his own that keeps him up at night and that is affecting his work: three years ago, Jonathan's runaway daughter was found strangled to death, and Jonathan has never given up hope of hunting down her murderer and making him pay. One night, after having spent a few fruitless hours keeping an eye on a group of emigres at a tavern, Jonathan learns that another young redheaded woman has been strangled in a manner similar to that of his daughter's. Further investigation unearths the fact that there have been several other such murders -- all young women, all redheaded, and all killed in exactly the same way. Surely this is the work of his daughter's murderer?<br />Jonathan's investigations lead him to the fascinating and mysterious de Montpellier siblings, Auguste and Guy; and to an astrological club, the Company of Titius. Here, however Jonathan meets with a dead end -- how to approach the de Montpelliers without raising suspicions? And then he remembers his estranged elder brother, Alexander, who like de Montpelliers, is also an amateur astronomer. Jonathan forces Alexander to make contact with the de Montpelliers and to spy on them for him. In the meantime, Jonathan tries to discover more about the de Montpelliers and their strange household, but someone in the Home Office seems to be protecting them, and Jonathan finds himself being increasingly sidelined to lesser duties. His only hope of discovering if the de Montpelliers are involved in the murders lies with Alexander. But can Jonathan trust his estranged brother?<br />'&quot;The Music of the Spheres&quot; is an enthralling and exciting read from beginning to end. Elizabeth Redfern has done a magnificent job of bringing the politics of the late 18th century England, with all it's intrigue (both political and diplomatic), to life. The novel was spun out precisely and evenly, with no extraneous bits that could have bogged down things terribly. It's true that this novel is not brimming over with optimism (esp the ending), but this, only adds, in my opinion, to the impact that the book imparts.<br />This is a very intricate and classy mystery novel that will keep you breathlessly guessing up to the very end; and is also a wonderful study on the nature of obsession and the effects it has on one's life and all those around-- such as Jonathan's obsessive need to find his daughter's killer, and Guy de Montpellier's obsessive need to discover his 'hidden' planet. Make no bones about it, this is an outstanding mystery novel; and is more than worthy of a five star rating.the de Montpelliers without raising suspicions? And then he remembers his estranged elder brother, Alexander, who like de Montpelliers, is also an amateur astronomer. Jonathan forces Alexander to make contact with the de Montpelliers and to spy on them for him. In the meantime, Jonathan tries to discover more about the de Montpelliers and their strange household, but someone in the Home Office seems to be protecting them, and Jonathan finds himself being increasingly sidelined to lesser duties. His only hope of discovering if the de Montpelliers are involved in the murders lies with Alexander. But can Jonathan trust his estranged brother?<br />'&quot;The Music of the Spheres&quot; is an enthralling and exciting read from beginning to end. Elizabeth Redfern has done a magnificent job of bringing the politics of the late 18th century England, with all it's intrigue (both political and diplomatic), to life. The novel was spun out precisely and evenly, with no extraneous bits that could have bogged down things terribly. It's true that this novel is not brimming over with optimism (esp the ending), but this, only adds, in my opinion, to the impact that the book imparts. <br />This is a very intricate and classy mystery novel that will keep you breathlessly guessing up to the very end; and is also a wonderful study on the nature of obsession and the effects it has on one's life and all those around-- such as Jonathan's obsessive need to find his daughter's killer, and Guy de Montpellier's obsessive need to discover his 'hidden' planet. Make no bones about it, this is an outstanding mystery novel; and is more than worthy of a five star rating.	2001-07-25
1908646:US	52830980	R2888902BLU92U	0425179494	581099109	The Big Nap (Mommy-Track Mystery)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	appealing heroine makes this novel enjoyable	&quot;The Big Nap&quot; is an enjoyable read if you're looking for a novel that possesses a brave and resilient heroine who is good with snappy comebacks, and who possesses a rather wicked sense of humour. However, if you're looking for a really good mystery novel that will tease 'the little gray cells' with its plot twists and is chock full of suspicious suspects and red herrings, then this novel may be a bit of a disappointment.<br />Juliet Applebaum is discovering to her horror that she does not possess the stuff that super moms are made of: her 4 month old son, Issac, seems to given up on the concept of sleep completely, and Juliet feels as if she has been hanging on (barely) with a mere 15 minutes off sleep per day. One day, it all becomes too much for her, and she finds herself breaking down into tears at a gocery store. The owner of the store, kindly Nettie Tanenbaum, immediately takes Juliet under her wing and more or less forces Juliet to hire her niece, Fraydle Finklestein, as her new nanny. And for the first time things seems to be really working out for Juliet. She gets to have a couple of hours of sleep, and feels really energized and optimistic about things (even the extra pounds she's put on and has yet to shed). But the next day, Fraydle fails to turn up, and Juliet discovers that Fraydle's parents think that she's runaway from home. But they refuse to call in the police because firstly, they belong to a strict orthodox Jewish sect and would rather handle matters themselves rather than rely on &quot;outsiders;&quot; and secondly, because the Finklesteins had arranged an advantageous marriage for Fraydle with a prominent New York Hasidic Jewish family, and they don't want any scandal to jeopardize this marriage. Juliet finds it hard to understand their attitude, and she's really afraid that Fraydle could be in some kind of trouble. So, in spite of Mr. Finkelstein's warnings, Juliet starts an all out search for Fraydle. What could have happened to Fraydle? Juliet knows that Fraydle has (unbeknowst to her family) an Israeli boyfriend, but he denies any knowledge of Fraydle's whereabouts. Did Fraydle run away? Is she in some kind of trouble? And why are the Finklesteins so reluctant to involve the police in Fraydle's disappearance? Soon, Juliet begins to fear that Fraydle may not be found alive at all...<br />&quot;The Big Nap&quot; is an enjoyable read esp for it's humourous takes on L.A. living -- the Hollywood glamour, the quest for thinness, etc. And Juliet Applebaum is an appealing heroine. However the resolution of the mystery of the missing Fraydle, left me reeling. The novel was moving along nicely, when suddenly, Juliet had the answer; and while it made sense once all was explained, the manner at which she came by the solution, left me feeling a little short changed. So here's my take on this novel: enjoy the book for its humourous and snappy asides, and for its vivid character portrayals, and for it's engaging heroine, because mystery-wise, it is a bit of a let down.	2001-07-23
1910090:US	52830980	R2LTXG05D9PVA1	0312278381	26307489	The Wooden Leg of Inspector Anders	Books	5	4	4	N	N	a tremendous find	With only one month to go before he officially retires, Inspector Anders of the Rome Police force, is not expected to create waves when he is sent to the South to investigate the assassination of Magistrate Fabri, who had himself been investigating the murder of Judge de Angelis. The official story is that both men had been killed by some new anarchist group. Will Anders endorse this politically accepted view, or is he a wildcard, with his own private agenda? This is the question that preoccupies the principal characters in this small unnamed southern city in &quot;The Wooden Leg Of Inspector Anders.&quot;<br />Used to, by now, with the many compromises that one must make with the overwhelming corruption that one sees everywhere in order to survive, Anders is keen to have this investigation over and done with. He knows that both men were definitely not killed by a terrorist group, but rather by the Mafia; and that probably everyone at city hall, and the police, is in on the cover-up. However he feels no overwhelming need to rock the boat. And then he interviews the widow of Judge de Angelis. De Angelis had been investigating an insurance scam and the powerful players who seemed to be in on the scam. Almost certainly the Mafia had had a finger or two in this scam, and de Angelis was committed to discovering the wrongdoers and forcing them to face justice, when his armoured car was blown up. The manner of his assassination had all the hallmarks of a terrorist attack. De Angelis's widow, however refuses to accept this official and convenient view, insisting that the Mafia had her husband silenced because he dared to go up against them. And she desperately needs someone she can trust to play the role of avenging knight. Could Anders be the man she is looking for? <br />The impact of  Carla de Angelis's grief, her quest (and her almost fanatical zeal) to see justice done, coupled with Anders's distaste for the 'chief suspects'  in this case--   from the police chief, toslimy and violent Mayor Salvo, to the cold, manipulative and powerful businesswoman, Signora Contrera-Kant -- and the manner in which they keep blaming the terrorists for the deaths of both men, soon makes Anders decide to throw in his lot in with Carla de Angelis. This will be his final act of courage and honour. But Anders is up against the Mafia, a violent and powerful group that will stop at nothing to get their own way. Can a lone policeman, without any allies and alone in a foreign city, really accomplish anything against such overwhelming odds?<br />&quot;The Wooden Leg Of Inspector Anders&quot; is a terrifically great read. The novel opens a bit slowly at first, but it gathers momentum fast, and it wasn't too long before events were unfolding at a breath-neck pace, that it had me glued to the pages as tensions mounted and events moved to their inevitable conclusion. Marshall Browne really knows how to spin a yarn! This is a truly brilliant novel. The prose style is distinctive and evocative; and the characters are all cleverly depicted, eventhough Marshall Browne is very economical is his descriptions of them. Inspector Anders, even at the end of the novel, is still a slightly mysterious character, and that only adds to the mystic and charisma of the character. I'm sure that we will learn more and more of this fascinating character with each subsequent mystery novel. <br />I'm always excited when I come across a new mystery seires that I know I will have fun reading and rereading, and with &quot;The Wooden Leg Of Inspector Anders&quot; by Marshall Browne, I knew I was onto a tremendous find. This novel really made for engrossing and riveting reading. And I can hardly wait for the next Inspector Anders mystery novel.	2001-07-21
1913591:US	52830980	RGG5S7I4TRZXL	0451203682	252024913	The Painted Lady (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Barbara Metzger delivers another gem!	Ever wondered what Galatea would have said to Pygmalion before she came to life, especially if she also possessed a sharp wit and a caustic tongue to boot?<br />Kennard Cartland, the Duke of Casewell, is very much a man of the ton. He's rich, good looking, a responsible duke, and has a reputation of being a very generous and excellent lover. He also has a deep, dark secret. He is a brilliant artist. Each night, he repairs to his house in Lonsdale Street, where he spends the night (after having indulged with the lady of the night, literally) painting nudes. One night, instead of painting his latest conquest, he creates a beautiful woman out of his imagination. In fact, she's so beautiful and perfect that he even finds himself drooling over her, for all that she's a figment of his imagination. So you can well imagine his shock when the lady in the painting starts talking to him and upbraiding him for everything from his many self indulgences, his casual use of women, and the cold manner in which he has chosen his future wife. The duke is fit to be tied -- could he be losing his mind?<br />Afraid that this may be the case, he repairs promptly to the estate of a Dr. Bannister, who had at one time been King George III's physician. Dr. Bannister now runs a sort of sanitarium where the aristocracy send their difficult and wayward daughters and wives. Bannister is keen to take on the duke's case. However the duke soon finds that if the good doctor cannot cure him, Bannister's regime of boiled food and rigorous exercise and knitting, will soon drive the duke quite daft from boredom. Everything the duke takes pleasure in (reading, good food, painting, &amp; conversation) seems to be on the doctor's forbidden list. Indeed the only bright spot in this very grim landscape seems to be Bannister's niece, Lilyanne. But Lilyanne is convinced that the duke is dangerous, and so keeps her distance. Stung that (for once) his rank, good looks and legendary charm seems not to be working on Lilyanne, the duke goes all out to win her trust and approval. And the more time he gets to spend with Lilyanne, the more she's proving to be just too irresistible a temptation. Surely he cannot be falling for a young woman of modest means and background?<br />Lilyanne Bannister has all but given up hope of ever finding happiness and love. Orphaned at an early age, Lilyanne and her sister, are quite dependent on their uncle. And in order to give her sister a chance at some kind of life, Lilyanne has all but resigned herself to acting as her uncle's assistant at the sanitarium. She was quite resigned to her fate; and then one day, rich, charming and handsome Kennard Cartland enters her life. From the very start Lilyanne knew that she would have to arm herself against his charm. But it isn't too long before she's falling under his spell, esp since he actually seems to enjoy talking to her and listening to her opinions. Knowing that nothing can come from this friendship, Lilyanne is quite stoic about the fact that they will never ever meet again once he leaves the sanitarium. But then the duke finds himself in the middle of a scandal involving two missing ex-mistresses. And he turns to Lilyanne for help. Now Lilyanne finds herself in London, living in his London house, and seeing him everyday. Could this renewed contact mean a second chance at love for the Lilyanne and the duke?<br />With &quot;The Painted Lady,&quot; Barbara Metzger has delivered yet another gem. And this time, she's written the novel in a really droll manner, full of dry asides and hilarious observations. Metzger spares no one -- she's even witty at her hero's expense. I couldn't contain my laughter, esp when the 'painted lady' mocked and upbraided the duke. And Metzger does a wonderful job of depicting the duke's confusion over his feelings for Lilyanne, and that he can hear his 'painted lady' talk; as well as Lilyanne's wistful hopes of one day leading a life quite different form the one she's currently living. Only two things detracted a little from my overall enjoyment of this novel: the rushed manner in which Metzger tied things up at the end, and the manner in which she would lapse every now and then into 20th century colloqualisms. However this is a wickedly funny romance novel, and is definitely a book that you can read and reread over and over again. <br />This is a brilliantly funny book, and is definitely a keeper!	2001-07-18
1917275:US	52830980	R2560FJFT5DZ5	0373511523	905568666	Kind And Decent Man (Reader's Choice)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	indomitable heroine makes this novel worth reading	&quot;A Kind And Decent Man&quot; is the typical romance novel of misunderstandings, disapproving parents, and estranged lovers. However, Mary Brendan has managed to write and engrossing and riveting novel in spite of this old material, and she breathes new life into this classic tale, mainly because of the indomitable heroine that she has created in Victoria Hart.<br />Victoria was eighteen years old when she fell deeply in love with rakish and penniless David Hardinge. Her father of course disapproved quite vigorously of their love, and when David asked for Victoria's hand in marriage, he was rudely rebuffed. Believing in Victoria's vow to wait for him, David leaves to acquire the capital in order make the necessary investments so that he can prove to Victoria's father that he is not the degenerate fool he is believed to be. Unfortunately, Victoria is being harangued by her father to forget David. A month goes by and her letters go unanswered; believing herself to have been abandoned by David, Victoria marries Daniel Hart, who just happens to be David's much older cousin.<br />Seven years go by and David has now inherited the family title, Viscount Courtney. He has also amassed quite a fortune through trade. However, what he perceives as Victoria's rejection, coupled with the ton's scornful attitude towards his scandalous parents, has made David become a very bitter and cynical man. And then he receives news that Daniel is dead. Succumbing to the temptation to see Victoria again, he goes to the funeral, and is stunned to realise that he is still susceptible to her charms. However he is still angry and bitter, and so resolves to punish and humiliate her. His chance comes when Victoria realising that she is quite penniless, goes to David for financial aid. She proposes a marriage of convenience; but he counters by proposing that she become his mistress. Victoria is aghast: what happened to the young man who swore that he would always love her. Angrily, she rejects his offer, and grimly makes for London, hoping to find a kind and decent man there who will want to marry her and take on her dependent father and aunt and estate as well. But things don't exactly work out as she hopes, for everywhere she goes she keeps running into David, and the most scandalous of rumours are making the rounds regarding her relationship with him. What will happen next? Will Victoria be successful in finding a husband who will agree to take on her load? Or will David and Victoria finally work out all their misunderstandings and misconceptions and so find happiness together? Or will Victoria have no choice but to give in to David's ignominious demands? And will David finally let go of his old hurts before it is too late? <br />The reason why this novel really worked for me was because of Victoria Hart. Like David, Victoria has not had the ideal childhood and upbringing; and unlike David, Victoria has had few options open to her as a young woman of the early 19th century. However unlike the hero of this novel, Victoria has not allowed adversity to make her bitter and cynical. And even when she's backed into a corner, with practically no options left at her disposal, she still tries to rise above the situation with courage and resolve. It is obvious that David on the other hand, desperately needed to grow up and let go of the past. Usually I'm not big on plots where the 'hero' of the novel decides that he has to punish the heroine by humiliating her. However, because I found myself feeling quite sorry for David, given his background and upbringing, I found myself instead rooting for him to come to his senses before he really hurt Victoria. And I think that Mary Brendan achieved this point (thank goodness!). <br />This novel is very well written -- the plot flowed smoothly and flawlessly and Mary Brendan's the prose style is good and faultless. &quot;A Kind And Decent Man&quot; is a really good read, especially because of the novel's indomitable heroine, Victoria Hart.	2001-07-16
1917384:US	52830980	RAK676N95GZZS	0451203690	664214241	The Widower's Folly (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	a pleasurable read	&quot;The Widower's Folly&quot; is the second installment in the series that focuses on the Barlow sisters and the magical locket that allows them to see the face of the man they are destined to find happiness with. This time it is Theresa's turn. The second of the Barlow sisters, Theresa is somewhat shy and prefers to spend her time writing stories for children, to attending fashionable get-togethers and balls. One morning, as she's on her way to turn in her latest book to her publisher, her aunt, Margaret Winsham, gives her the family locket, and tells her the legend behind the locket. And when Theresa opens the locket, she catches a glimpse of the face of a rather handsome gentleman. Imagine her shock when minutes later, she practically runs into him outside her publisher's!<br />William, Lord Rivendale, currently has only one purpose in life: to get his young six year old daughter, Anna, to talk again. Anna had witnessed her mother die in a carriage accident, and she's not spoken word since. The only time she shows any signs of liveliness is when her father reads to her the books by her favourite authour. And when the latest specialist that Rivendale has consulted holds out little hope for Anna's improvement, Rivendale hits on the idea of discovering the identity of Anna's favourite authour, and asking her for her help in bringing Anna out of her shell. Rivendale of course expects this authour to be a grandmotherly old woman. And he's quite surprised when he discovers that the unknown authour is actually a beautiful and shy young woman. Moved by Anna's plight, Theresa agrees to spend time with Anna. And the more time she spends with father and daughter, the more she comes to care for them both, esp Rivendale, with whom she finds herself becoming perilously attracted to, even as she tells herself that nothing will come of her growing feelings for Rivendale, as wealthy men of the ton do not marry shy, penniless young authours. And then Theresa finds herself in themiddle of a scandal. Her unscrupulous publisher has used her latest work to lampoon members of society, and he refuses to agree to cease in this activity. Theresa is aghast at this turn of events, especially when no other publisher will accept her manuscripts. What is she to do if she cannot write? And this is where Rivendale suddenly finds himself proposing a marriage of convenience to Theresa. He needs a wife primarily for Anna's sake, however he has no intention of consummating the marriage or begetting an heir. Theresa agrees to marry Rivendale, but she has her own agenda. Somehow she's going to get him to open himself up to the prospect of falling in love again, and with her. Will sweet-natured Theresa succeed in her quest to win her husband's heart?<br />&quot;The Widower's Folly&quot; is a rather fun read. I especially enjoyed the second half of the book that dealt with Theresa slow and steady seduction of her husband, which April Khilstrom handled in a light and tasteful manner. Both the principal characters (Theresa &amp; Rivendale) were well developed, and I liked that the other characters from the previous novel were inserted into this book, esp Aunt Margaret Winsham. A little more of her background and her dangerous crusade to save the helpless children who are being cruelly used, is detailed in this book. (I do hope that there will be a novel featuring Aunt Margaret at some point.) And while it is not absolutely essential to have read the first book in this series, &quot;The Ambitious Baronet,&quot; it does help, as certain episodes (the Barlow women's propensity to rescue children, the sad upbringing that the sisters had, and their unique relationship with their aunt) are described in more detail in that novel. <br />The Barlow sisters series is shaping up, in my opinion, to be the best series that April Khilstrom has written to date. The novels have all been a little more serious in nature, dealing with men and women who have been emotionally scarredin one way or another, and who all learn that there is still the chance and hope of healing and finding love. &quot;The Widower's Folly&quot; is certainly a good read, esp if you're looking for something other than a light comedy of manners that deals with beaux and balls.	2001-07-16
1919551:US	52830980	R3JUX4F2ZUPKNR	0892967404	573991046	Ode to a Banker	Books	5	10	10	N	N	another brilliant and engrossing Falco installment	It's the summer of AD 74, and if you think that Marcus Didius Falco, private informer, and his partner in life, Helena Justina, are having a wonderful time, enjoying the joys of the warm weather, think again. To begin with, Falco' s estranged father's mistress has recently passed away, and Falco's father is not so quietly going to the dogs. And if that's not bad enough, it looks as if Falco's sister, Maia, is getting much to cosy with Falco's arch-enemy, Anacrites! (Falco's biggest fear is that he may end up with Anacrites as a brother-in-law, so he's been very careful not to broach the subject with his independently minded sister just in case she decides to marry Anacrites out of sheer bloody mindedness!) Add to that the fact that the builders that Helena hired to finish their new house seemed to have shambled off to who knows where, and the fact that in a moment of weakness Falco allowed himself to be inveigled into giving a poetry reading with Rutilius Gallicus (last seen sentencing Maia's husband to death in &quot;Two For The Lions&quot;), and you get the idea that it is not going to be a summer of wine and roses for Falco.<br />To begin with the poetry reading session gets out of hand, when first Domitian Caesar (the Emperor's younger son, who just happens to hate Falco) and his entourage turns up and makes a mess of the seating arrangements, and then Aurelius Chrysippus, a banker and publisher, more or less highjacks the whole show. Chrysippus later offers to publish Falco's work; however Chrysippus runs a vanity publishing outfit -- the authour pays for his work to b published. Falco is outraged at having been propositioned by a vanity outfit (what does it say of the caliber of his work?) and turns down Chrysippus's offer snappishly. Little does he realise that the next time he sees Chryippus, the banker/publisher will be dead, having been brutally and horrifically murdered in what looks like a frenzied attack of rage.<br />Petro, Falco's best friend, who just happens to be the vigile put in charge of investigating Chrysippus's death, blackmails Falco into investigating the crime for him. And in no time at all Falco is busily checking out alibis, chasing down suspects, and looking for clues, all in order to get at the truth of who murdered Chrysippus and why. Could it have been Chrysippus's nubile, young, trophy wife, Vibia, tired of being tied to a much older husband? Or could it be Chrsippus's ex-wife, Lysa, still bitter about her divorce? Certainly Chrysippus's good for nothing son, Diomedes, is a suspect. As well as the stable of writers and poets that Chrysippus exploited. However, Chrysippus's murder could also have something to do with the shady doings that his bank seems to be involved in. There are just so many avenues for Falco to explore...<br />&quot;Ode To The Banker&quot; is a really entertaining read. For the many fans of Lindsey Davis, be assured that this novel will be another great and engrossing read. For those who have yet to read any of the Falco murder mysteries, don't hesitate any longer -- this is a wonderful and enthralling series. It is not very often that you come across an authour who consistently combines a brilliantly crafted novel, with well portrayed and really eccentric characters, and a mystery plot that will keep you guessing till the very end. Add to that Lindsey Davis's talent for writing in a tongue-in-cheek manner -- the wry way in which she relates things and her humorous asides and observations are absolutely brilliant and have often had me in stitches -- and you have a really splendid series.<br />&quot;Ode To The Banker&quot; is another brilliant and successful installment in the Falco series, and should be on everyone's list for enjoyable summer reading.	2001-07-14
1920046:US	52830980	R2ZZY4MIFBV5CV	082176795X	440542894	A Tangled Web (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	a pleasant read	&quot;A Tangled Web&quot; is the final chapter in the trilogy dealing with the Hartford sisters -- &quot;An Improper Pursuit&quot; centered on the eldest Hartford sister, Chastity; while &quot;Sweet Tranquility&quot; focused on Tranquility Hartford; &quot;A Tangled Web&quot; deals with Tranquility's twin, Serenity, and takes place a few years later. Since the first two books are currently out-of-print, I'll paint a quick background sketch for anyone who's not familiar with the Hartford family. The three sisters have been brought up by a rather cold and domineering woman (Divinity Hartford), whose sole purpose in life seems to be to see her daughters married off properly and to her credit. Her two daughters, Chastity and Tranquility, while they did marry well, did so in such a ramshackle manner, that she is still angry and chagrined to this day. And she is determined that her remaining daughter, Serenity, will marry well and in a circumspect manner.<br />Serenity is twenty-three years old, and she's quite tired of always doing what others want her to: first, she did whatever her twin, Tranquility, decided that they should do; now her mother expects her to marry to please her! Tranquility however wishes to marry for love as her two sisters did. And when she rejects yet another proposal, her mother angrily banishes her to her Great Aunt Prudence's home in Bath. The thought of an entire summer spent with her mother and an aunt she has met only once before, fills Serenity with dread; so that when she discovers that her aunt is dead and she is her heir, Tranquility comes up with a scheme to evade her mother and her continuous demands. Serenity forges a letter from her aunt, inviting only Serenity and Serenity's governess, Miss Cobb, to Bath, hinting that Divinity will not be made very welcome. Serenity also writes to Prudence's lawyer pretending to be her father, and asking the lawyer to open up the house in Bath, and to see that the ladies have ample funds during their sojourn in Bath.<br />Serenity thinks that she has thought of everything. What she wants is to spend some time free of her mother and her constant nagging. She's also decided that she doesn't want to marry, and that she's rather like spending her life as an independent woman of means. And soon Serenity is coming into her own, enjoying the many amenities of Bath and even has her own set of friends (though how she was able to achieve this given that her aunt had just recently died and that Serenity should actually be in mourning for her, quite escaped me). She's even fallen under the spell of a rather handsome and dashing gentleman, Sir Simon McKendrick, whom she cannot help but daydream about, even as she tells herself that her attraction for him will come to nothing, esp since Sir Simon seems to disapprove of her completely. But all too soon Serenity's castle comes crashing down about her: her mother's written threatening a visit. Will Serenity be able to forestall her mother? And what of Sir Simon -- should she attempt to change his mind about her, or should she stick her guns about never marrying?<br />&quot;A Tangled Web&quot; is a really delightful story about a young woman coming into her own. Donna Bell does an excellent job of portraying Serenity's feelings -- the claustrophobia she feels at being hemmed in on all sides, and always having to do what others want, and her exhilaration at having finally circumvented her parents -- these are depicted really well. And while Serenity's constant giggling does exasperate at first, once you realise that in many ways Serenity is still quite girlish esp because of her domineering and emanding mother, you forgive her this fault completely. I especially liked the affectionate relationship that Serenity had with her governess, Miss Cobb. Serenity and Miss Cobb are very close, and through it we get to see the generous and warm spirit that resides within Serenity. The story unfolds swiftly and smoothly, and the principal characters are well developed, esp Sir Simon, who is almost a peripheral character in this novel but who is very well depicted nonetheless. Mostly however, this is Serenity's story, and Donna Bell does an excellent job of chronicling her coming into her own. A really fun read.	2001-07-14
1920621:US	52830980	RASFFJ7HCMHUF	0380815583	618770208	An Offer From a Gentleman (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 3)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	the best installment in the Bridgerton series so far	&quot;An Offer From a Gentleman&quot; does indeed revolve around the Cinderella motif, but while Julia Quinn doesn't really veer very far from this plot device, she has breathed new life into the stock characters of Cindereall, the Prince and the Wicked Stepmother so as to make this novel really enjoyable and a fun read. Briefly, the plot unfolds as follows: the illegitimate daughter of the Earl of Penwood, Sophie Beckett, has lead a life of unrelenting hell at her stepmother's (Araminta) hands; and she decides one night to slip out of the house and to attend a masked ball. There, she attracts the attention of the very handsome and eligible Benedict Bridgeton. They spend a few magical (and romantic) moments together until Sophie spots Araminta, and decides to escape before Araminta discovers her presence. She leaves a very disappointed Benedict behind her as well as a glove with the Penwood insignia on it. Benedict tries to track his mysterious lady using this glove, but has no success in finding her. In the meantime, Sophie who has decided that she has had enough of Araminta's anger and hatred, decides to runaway. Two years go by -- Sophie has been working as a maid in the country; while Benedict, who has not forgotten his mysterious lady, spends his time attending balls and other social functions hoping to find her; when fate throws Benedict and Sophie unexpectedly together again. Benedict walks in on the attempted rape of Sophie by her employer's son and rescues her. Chivalrously, he then offers her a position at his mother's estate. Sophie is stunned and heartbroken at the same time: all her daydreaming has finally come true -- here's her prince, and he's just rescued her, and he doesn't even recognise her as the lady from the masked ball! Things take an even more ironical turn for Sophie when she discovers that Benedict has decided not to marry at all since he has lost all hope of finding his masked lady. In the meantime Benedict discovers that he has a dilemmaof his own: his is growing more and more attracted to Sophie, but this seems to make a mockery  of his feelings for the masked lady. How can he reconcile his desire for Sophie with what he feels for his lady? <br />What will happen? Will Benedict discover that Sophie and the masked lady are one and the same? Unfortunately the path to their happiness doesn't only lie in Benedict's realisation that Sophie and the masked lady are one and the same. There's also the matter of Sophie's illegitimate birth, as well as Araminta. What will happen when Araminta discovers Sophie's whereabouts? Will her hatred for Sophie inspire her to scale new heights of malice?<br />&quot;An Offer From A Gentleman&quot; is the third novel in the Bridgerton series, and it is the best to date. &quot;The Duke And I&quot; was rather good, and while &quot;The Viscount Who Love Me&quot; (the second book in the series) was not as good as the first one, it was still a goodish read. This novel however surpassed the first two in every way. Everything just gelled together really well -- character developments, the story line, manner in which events unfolded and were paced -- all this came together in such a way as to make for some really riveting and enjoyable reading. What was especially compelling and interesting (for me anyway) was the characters. For example, Cinderella/Sophie is not the meek and willing drudge from the fairy tale we're all familiar with; indeed when Sophie decides that she' s had enough of Araminta, she ups and leaves in order to start a new life for herself. And one cannot help but admire this character, who doesn't allow anyone or anything to curb her spirit, her sense of self worth or her principles. Sophie is someone who has experienced a lot of hard knocks, and yet she has not allowed her experiences to tarnish her in any way. I also liked that Benedict's mother, Violet figured more prominently in this novel than in the previous two, and that we got to see another side of thewoman who is usually portrayed as hell bent on marrying off all her children. In this book we see the lengths that Violet will go to in order to defend and protect those she really likes and loves. I thought that the final showdown between Violet and Araminta was priceless.<br />&quot;An Offer From A Gentleman&quot; is a really enjoyable read. If, like me, you weren't really blown away by the first two books in the series, don't hesitate. This novel is really worth reading.	2001-07-13
1923082:US	52830980	R11MUENWQ7LQIP	0786708751	115238385	Death of Kings (Shakespearean Murder Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	not bad but not as good as the first book in the series	&quot;Death of Kings&quot; is the second Shakespearean murder mystery featuring the detecting skills of actor Nick Revill, and while the novel is well written, I found it to be a little disappointing as a murder mystery novel, in spite of the odd murder or two thrown in the middle of the book. &quot;Death of Kings&quot; is more a novel of political intrigue than it is a story of murder and mayhem.<br />It is the early months of 1601, and England is a veritable hotbed of rumours, portents and conspiracy theories. The Queen (Elizabeth I) is getting old, and unfortunately has no direct heir to the throne. Stories are being bruited about that Cecil, the Secretary to the Council, has all but persuaded the Queen to name the Spanish Infanta as her heir. Certainly the Earl of Essex, Robert Deverux, once a favourite of the Queen's, believes this rumour, and has stormed back to London in order to protect the throne (and, he says, the Queen) by mounting an insurrection. The question on everyone's mind is if he is really serious about protecting the Queen from those who would ill advise her, or if his plan is to put himself on the throne? Nick Revill finds himself in the thick of all this political shenanigans, when Cecil commands him to act as his spy.<br />The Chamberlain's Men, according to Cecil, is about to be commissioned to perform Shakespeare's Richard II by one of Essex's supporters. Not the most propitious of plays to perform right now since it deals with the supplanting of the rightful monarch by a usurper, ostensibly for 'the good of the country.'  Nick is told to keep an eye and ear open, and to be on the lookout in particularly for an individual known as Merrick. And so Nick finds himself acting the unenviable role of spy, and watching his own friends and company. Soon however Nick finds himself having a foot in both camps (Cecil's and Essex's) when Shakespeare asks him to deliver a message to the Earl of Southampton on his behalf. This takes Nick deep into Essex's camp, and he is soon taken for an Essex supporter. And he cannot help but wonder how soon it will be before someone discovers that he is a spy. Nick's worst fears are realised when first, he becomes aware of the fact that he is being watched, and then that someone is trying to kill him. But who is after him? Is it a member of Essex's group? Or has Cecil decided that he has outlived his usefulness? Or is there someone else with a more sinister reason to end Nick's life?<br />I was a little disappointed with this Nick Revill murder mystery. The novel seemed to be chock-full of promising ingredients: there was political intrigue; an unknown murderer(s) stalking our hero; a few well conceived red herrings; two chillingly executed murders; and a host of eccentric and suspicious characters... And yet things fizzled a little for me, mainly because 'sitting on the edge of your seat' feeling was just not there in spite of the attempts on Nick's life. I found myself skimming through many pages of unnecessary political ruminations in order to get at the 'meat' of this particular mystery. <br />All in all &quot;Death of Kings&quot; is not a bad read -- it's interesting, informative and clever. However I definitely preferred the first Nick Revill murder mystery, &quot;Sleep of Death.&quot;	2001-07-11
1934269:US	52830980	R2BIEC4KKIBL6O	0747266115	617798645	The Boy-Bishop's Glovemaker (Knights Templar)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	an engrossing read	There is always two things that you can count on when you pick up a Sir Baldwin Furnshill &amp; Bailiff Simon Puttock West Country mystery: an exquisitely well crafted and cunning murder mystery; and that Michael Jecks has peppered the novel with all kinds of interesting bits of medieval facts and history. This latest Furnshill &amp; Puttock murder mystery, &quot;The Boy-Bishop's Glovemaker&quot; takes place during the Christmas festivities of 1321 in the cathedral city of Exeter, and chronicles one of the most chilling and deadliest of cases that Sir Baldwin and Simon Puttock have ever taken on.<br />One of the many festivities celebrated during the Christmas season, is the election of one of the choristers to be &quot;Bishop&quot; for a day. Discipline is relaxed, and the Boy-Bishop and his friends are given some money, food and allowed to wonder about in the city, and to take part in harmless bits of mischief and mayhem. It is also on this day that leading members of the community are presented with special gem studded gloves to mark their service to Church and city. Both Sir Baldwin and Simon Puttock are to awarded these gloves; and when they first enter the city, they little expect that such a festive and joyous occasion would lead them to cross paths with one of the most ruthless of killers that they will ever come across!<br />Within hours of their arrival, they are summoned to the cathedral by the Dean. It turns out that the cathedral's glovemaker, Ralph, had been robbed and murdered a few days before. Ralph's apprentice, Elias, had been arrested for the crime mainly because it was Elias's knife that had been used to murder Ralph. Elias of course proclaims his innocence -- not that any one believes him. Now however, a Secondary from the cathedral, Peter Golloc, who had dealt with Ralph in the commissioning of the special gloves (he delivered the money and jewels for the gloves) has been found poisoned. The Coroner of the city cannot help but wonder if perhaps Elias is innocent afterall, and that Peter, and an unknown accomplice, may have robbed and murdered Ralph, with Peter in turn being murdered by his confederate. The Dean is appalled by the Coroner's allegations, and asks Sir Baldwin and Simon to investigate. Both men reluctantly agree since they both believe that the two murders are unconnected. However the more they dig, the more deaths they uncover, and it isn't too long before both men realise that they are after a truly cunning, cold blooded and single-minded killer. Will Sir Baldwin and Simon Puttock be able to successfully unmask the murderer before (s)he strikes again?<br />&quot;The Boy-Bishop's Glovemaker&quot; is a really riveting read, full of twists and turns and red herrings that will keep you guessing until the very end! The novel is a well crafted and well written one, and the level of suspense and tension was well maintained and sustained. I enjoyed this latest Sir Baldwin &amp; Simon Puttock murder mystery immensely, and recommend it as a great read, esp if you are an avid reader of medieval mystery novels. A truly fantastic read!!	2001-07-04
1935796:US	52830980	R1IREHVMQ8E5VH	0553109243	599403943	Die Upon a Kiss	Books	5	8	8	N	N	an exquisite crafted novel and a wonderful read	Barbara Hambly has written another brilliant Benjamin January mystery in &quot;Die Upon A Kiss&quot; -- Hambly ably mixes political intrigue with the over the top shenanigans of the opera stars, adding a dollop of two of assault, battery and murder. Add to that her very astute and bitingly sharp observations of the class, race and gender practices of New Orleans in the 1830s, and you have a very entertaining, finely detailed and informative novel.<br />It's Carnival time in New Orleans, and the American Theatre (sponsored by the 'American' community in New Orleans in direct competition to the Creole sponsored opera company) is about to open with it's first opera season under the aegis's of an Italian impresario, Lorenzo Belaggio. And Benjamin January has been able to successfully acquire a job with the orchestra of this new theatre. One night, as he is leaving the theatre after a late rehearsal, Benjamin walks into an attempt on Belaggio's life. Benjamin successfully defends Belaggio from his attackers, and in the chaos that follows, the hysterical opera director accuses first two of his tenors (Belaggio is an Italian who supports the Austrian occupation of the northern cities of Italy, while the two tenors, Cavallo &amp; Ponte, are firm supporters of the New Italy movement); and then the manager of the rival opera company (and Benjamin's friend, John Davis) of the attempted murder. As the hours and days pass, Belaggio's accusations against Davis mount, much to Davis's consternation. Things between the Creole and 'American' communities are tense as it is, without Belaggio's inflammatory claims against Davis. And so Davis asks Benjamin to look into things, and hopefully discover who was really behind the attempt on Belaggio's life, before the next, and perhaps fatal, attempt takes place.<br />The suspects and motives are many. Definitely Cavallo and Ponte despise Bellagio for his political stance. But would the two men actually kill Bellagio simply for supporting theAustrians?  Benjamin senses something deeply personal about this attack. And when it turns out that Belaggio's current mistress, the prima donna of the company, the beautiful Drusilla, is also being courted by one of the sponsors of the theatre, Benjamin wonders if it may be a case of one rival getting rid of another. And then another tantalizing thought comes to mind: the company will be performing &quot;Othello&quot; and Benjamin wonders if someone may be going all out to prevent the play that tells of a black man's love for a white woman from being performed. So many possibilities; where is Benjamin to start? Fortunately, Benjamin has his trusted friend and fellow orchestra player, Hannibal Sefton, as an ally in this quest. But even before Benjamin and Hannibal have even started their investigation, their good friend Madame Scie, the ballet mistress is attacked and severely injured. It looks as if someone is hunting the members of this new company, and for Benjamin, the hunt for this assassin has suddenly become very personal indeed.<br />&quot;Die Upon A Kiss&quot; is a really brilliant read. The plot is a little convoluted, but well worth the effort of sticking it out. I was simply glued to the pages. Not only was the story outstanding, but the use of language and imagery was absolutely exquisite! Hambly has successfully imbued this novel with that dark atmospheric almost gothic feel -- I could almost taste and smell the dark, cool New Orleans nights that she so ably describes. The characters were all very well defined, and the level of tension/suspense was well sustained. But what I liked most was her droll and biting observations about New Orleans society (both black and white) and the dramatic and grand gestures that the members of the new opera company indulged in. This novel is an absolutely wonderful read, and well worth a five star rating.	2001-07-03
1939059:US	52830980	R2N2N6WZGUVIR6	0821770411	263089138	The Trouble With Harriet (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	a very worthy sequel to &quot;The Wagered Wife&quot;	Harriet Glasser was fourteen years old when she fell in love with Marcus Jeffries. However, their age difference (he was seventeen) and the Glasser family's straitened circumstances, saw to it that not much came of Harriet's love. <br />Years later, the shared wardship of Annabelle Richardson reunites Marcus and Harriet. Marcus, with the death of both his father and his elder brother, is now the new Earl of Wyndham; while Harriet is the widow of an immensely wealthy shipping magnate, Mr. Knightly. One would think that because they are old friends, sharing the wardship of a young girl would be an easy enterprise. However Harriet is no longer the sweet young innocent Marcus remembers. She had married a much older and very generous man, who encouraged her intellectual curiosity, and spurred her to realise her hidden potential. Now Harriet wants to do the same for Annabelle. Marcus is leery: he doesn't think that girls should have the kinds of education that boys have, but he agrees to allow Harriet full control over Annabelle curriculum. And the more time Harriet and Marcus spend with each other, the more Marcus begins to fall under Harriet's spell. She is proving to be one of the most beguiling and stimulating women he's ever met -- in spite of the fact that they disagree about everything from the education of girls to the property rights of married women. On top of it all Harriet supports the seditious writings of that liberal journalist, Gadfly! Will Harriet and Marcus be able to work out their differences of ideas and goals in order to realise their romantic feelings for each other?<br />&quot;The Trouble With Harriet&quot; is an enjoyable sequel to &quot;The Wagered Wife.&quot; The sequence of events within this novel takes place over a year, but things unfold so swiftly and smoothly, that you don't really feel bogged down by the time line at all. Marcus, Harriet and Annabelle are very deftly and vividly portrayed. Wilma Counts really makes these three characterscome alive. I was completely won over by Harriet and her impassioned pleas for reform; and while I didn't really agree with Marcus on most points, I did feel a sneaking sympathy for him, being beleagued and besieged by Harriet on practically everything! But the star of this novel was (for me anyway) Annabelle: Wilma Counts has created a really vivacious, intelligent and generous young girl in Annabelle, and Counts has also given her a very strong social conscience to boot! This bodes well for her next book which features Annabelle as the heroine, and I can hardly wait!<br />I thoroughly enjoyed &quot;The Trouble For Harriet.&quot; This romance novel dealt with both serious issues (like a woman's place in society) and with romance, in an intelligent and enjoyable manner. &quot;The Trouble With Harriet&quot; is a really fun read, and I thoroughly recommend it, esp if you looking for a little more substance in your romance reading diet!	2001-06-30
1939392:US	52830980	R1M1XXUCFZ1IMH	0821769979	539666708	Wagered Hearts	Books	5	3	5	N	N	a romance novel for adults	Geoffrey Kirk, Viscount Sherbourne, is very much a gentleman of the ton. An avowed bachelor, and a rake, he has spent much of his life devoted to the pleasures that his rank and wealth have afforded him. But he especially enjoys gambling, not because he has the 'gambling fever' but because he enjoys pitting his wits and his nerves against others. And one morning, he awakens from a night spent gambling and drinking, to find that he has won not only Sir Harold Wyndham's estate, but also Sir Harold's daughter's (Ariel) hand in marriage. Sherbourne cannot believe that he allowed things to sink so low, and he quickly makes for Sir Harold's estate in order to seek out his affianced bride. Sherbourne expects Ariel to be a bit of a country mouse, and hopefully one that he can mold into the semblance of an acceptable bride. Imagine his horror then when this very fashionable man of the ton finds Ariel churning butter! Sherbourne is aghast: his future bride is a plain speaking young woman, who acts and looks like a dairymaid. Horrified, Sherbourne asks Ariel to release him from her father's pledge. But this Ariel will not to do as marrying Sherbourne seems to be the only way she can think of to keep her father out of debtor's prison. <br />And so this unlikely pair find themselves officially engaged, and back in London, making the social rounds and facing down the ton, in order to repair whatever harm the wager may have done to Ariel's reputation. And the more time Ariel and Sherbourne spend together, the more they begin to like, respect, and even feel attracted to each other. For while Sherbourne proves to be much, much more than the gambling man of fashion that Ariel thinks him to be, so too does Ariel, with her sense of humour and adventure surprise Sherbourne. Only one thing seems to stand in the way of their happiness: Sherbourne's refusal to give up gambling. Will Ariel be able to put aside her unease at the thought of tying her life to another gambler? Or will she finally decide that a life spent alone, is better than one spent with a gambler, even if she loves him?<br />&quot;Wagered Hearts&quot; is a really excellent novel, and (as is the case with most books I really like) primarily because of the book's courageous and beguiling heroine. My sympathies were completely with Ariel, who soon finds that she is losing all control of her life. I found myself mentally cheering her on in her efforts to regain some control of her life, and to get to know the enigma that is her fiance. And while Ariel's character was well developed and depicted, I though that Sherbourne's character could have done with a little more fleshing out. &quot;Wagered Hearts&quot; is a really excellent read, and if you like romance novels with intelligent and compelling heroes and heroines, then you will definitely enjoy this wonderful book.	2001-06-29
1940940:US	52830980	RKTLC4Z0HDZ72	0802733557	843015841	Green Grow the Victims (Hilda Johansson Mysteries, No. 3)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	admirable heroine makes this seires truly brilliant reading	This series just keeps getting better and better! Perhaps it is because I spent more than ten years in Indiana, or because I really love historical mysteries -- probably it is a combination of both factors, but I really love the Hilda Johansson mystery series set in the early 1900s in South Bend, Indiana. <br />It's 1902, and Hilda Johansson is now the head housemaid at Tippecanoe Place, the home of the socially prominent and influential Studebaker family. And her relationship with fireman Patrick Cavanaugh is still 'on track' despite the disapproval of both Hilda's Swedish Lutheran family and Patrick's Irish Catholic family. However these days, Patrick's worries are totally centered on (as he terms it) his uncle Daniel Malloy's 'shenanigans.' Daniel Malloy has decided to stand for local elections under the Democratic ticket, and his very clever and sly campaign against his Republican opponent, John Bishop, has earned him his opponent's ire and contempt. Patrick thinks that his uncle is making the family a laughingstock in South Bend. But these political goings on take back seat when Bishop is found beaten to death at the County Fair. Suspicion falls on Daniel Malloy when first, his shillelagh is discovered next to the body, and when everyone realises that Daniel is missing! Hilda does not for one moment believe that Daniel murdered Bishop, and is all for offering her services to the Malloy family. But Patrick is adamant that she steer clear of this mess: not only does his family not like Hilda, but they also do not want her help. Hilda is both angered and hurt at the Malloy-Cavanaugh family attitude, and resolves to do nothing. However the next day, she is stunned when Mrs. Malloy, Daniel Malloy's wife asks for Hilda's help, in spite of her son's (Clancy) disapproval. Hilda decides to put her hurt feelings behind her and to help Mrs. Malloy. However her efforts suffer a setback when a witness comes forward with information of having witnessed Daniel attacking Bishop. Could Daniel Malloy be capable of murdering his political opponent in such a brutal manner? Hilda is determined to find out, no matter the cost.<br />This is a well written and well researched historical mystery. Jeanne M. Dams really made the South Bend of the early 1900s come alive for me. And what a heroine she has created in Hilda Johansson. In Hilda, Dams has created a truly refreshingly democratic and fair minded young woman who is able to look beyond race and religion. In the very first Hilda Johansson mystery, &quot;Death In Lacer Red,&quot; Hilda went to the defense of a Chinese laundry man, and in this latest venture, she goes to bat for the Malloy-Cavanugh family, in spite of their disapproval of her. Hilda Johansson is a truly admirable heroine and detective. <br />&quot;Green Grow The Victims&quot; is a really excellent read. The plotting of this novel was virtually flawless, and the breath-neck pace at which the events unfolded was even and well sustained. Hilda and her family (sisters Gudrun &amp; Freya, and brother, Sven) were well developed and depicted; as was Mrs. Malloy; however I felt that more could have been done with Patrick. I enjoyed reading this mystery novel very much, and look forward to the next Hilda Johansson mystery.	2001-06-28
1940998:US	52830980	R1TVBIYAIK51CD	0595098789	228986141	Murder on the Canterbury Pilgrimage: A Geoffrey Chaucer Murder Mystery (Geoffrey Chaucer Murder Mysteries)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	interesting reading	When Agatha and Robert Willard realise that the group of pilgrims that they are journeying with to Canterbury include some really odd and memorable characters, they immediately send word to their good friend, Geoffrey Chaucer, urging him to join their group, and promising him an interesting time. Feeling the need for a change of pace, Chaucer readily joins his friends, and soon finds that this pilgrimage really will prove to be something quite different. To begin with, one of the pilgrims seems to be rather odd kind of thief, stealing little objects, and only those made of silver. And then there are the pilgrims themselves, who range from the very chivalrous and proper knight, Sir Richard de Bourgoyne, and his son (who also functions as his squire), Simon, to the very beautiful and flirtatious gypsy, Sophia. Simon, to his father's dismay and disapproval, is completely in Sophia's thrall, and while Sophia seems to favour Simon, she cannot help but flirt with every male in the group either. <br />The pilgrims decide to spend the days and nights of their journey telling stories. But the camaraderie between the pilgrims is not all that it should be. Beneath all the joviality and good will, lies earnest dislikes and tensions. And one night the summoner berates the friar for his unashamed pursuit of 'the heathen witch' Sophia. Angry, Sophia reveals that the summoner knows who the thief really is. Soon after that Sophia is found stabbed to death in the ladies' common room, with one of Chaucer's tarot cards placed on her body. <br />Everyone is stunned and flabbergasted. How did the murderer enter the room and kill Sophia without awakening anyone else? And how did the killer get his/her hands on Chaucer's tarot cards? Because the murder has taken place in a small and insular village, Chaucer and his friends fear that he will be made the convenient scapegoat for Sophia's murder. Chaucer will have to work swiftly if he is unmask the real murderer before he is hanged for a crime he definitely did not commit. <br />&quot;Murder On the Canterbury Pilgrimage&quot; is an interesting and intriguing read -- the murder-mystery plot was well thought out and executed, and Mary Devlin's ability to blend in historical fact and political intrigue -- John of Gaunt's attempts to win the Castilian throne and the Lollard movement -- into the plot spoke volumes of her ability to spin a good yarn. I especially liked that she incorporated Chaucer's interest in astrology into this novel -- she actually has Chaucer use an astral chart to try and come to grips with this murder-mystery. And if I could, I would award this mystery novel the 3 1/2 stars it richly deserves. For while the characters are all very well developed and depicted, and the mystery plot is a compelling one, the one thing not always there (for me anyway), was that air of taut suspense -- the atmosphere of tension, when you wondered if the killer would strike again, or if Chaucer would actually unmask the murderer in time, was not that well sustained. And while the sequence of events unfolded logically enough, the transition between chapters and events was sometimes choppy. And this, in my opinion prevented this otherwise excellent novel from being the truly brilliant read it could have been. All in all however, &quot;Murder On the Canterbury Pilgrimage&quot; is an enjoyable read, and I do hope that there are more Geoffrey Chaucer murder mysteries in the offing.	2001-06-28
1948598:US	52830980	R2C5IOGAVNU34N	0821767526	70115429	A Dangerous Compromise (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	a captivating read	Shannon Donnelly has done it again! She's written a really brilliant sequel to her first book, &quot;A Compromising Situation.&quot; &quot;A Dangerous Compromise&quot; is a rich and complex book, and quite a bit darker than the usual fare. For while this book is primarily about a young girl's very first foray into the social swirl that is the London Season, it is not the light hearted romp you might expect it to be. For Clarissa Dewhurst, the beautiful heroine at the heart of this novel, is a young woman full of doubts, questions and fears, and a rather foolish quest that is bound to land her in trouble. Somehow she's gotten it into her head that she can only find fulfillment and peace if she experiences a Grand Passion. And, she believes, only a rake can provide her with this Grand Passion. So, Clarissa has come to London in order to find her rake, make him fall in love with her, and the reform him. And when she finds out that her best friend's (Jane Preston) brother has plans of promoting a match between Jane and his best friend, Evan Fortesque, Clarissa is outraged and urges Jane to reject Evan, esp as this Evan Fortesque is not a rake, and is probably as boring as he is respectable.<br />Unfortunately, Evan overhears Clarissa's dismissive comments about him. Evan has spent the past few years taking care of his family estates and his family, and he is now in London for a well deserved holiday. And when he overhears Clarissa, he decides to teach her a lesson by presenting himself as a rake, and showing her what a rake is truly like, and how dangerous he can be. However Clarissa truly does fascinate him: she's an audacious mix of vulnerability and willful stubbornness, and Evan finds himself constantly stepping in to protect her form her own folly. And after a while, the reason he constantly seeks her out, whether it is to teach her a lesson or if it is because he cannot stay away from her, becomes completely mixed up in his mind. And then Clarissa attracts the attention of a true rake, St. Albans. Suddenly Evan finds himself flirting in earnest with Clarissa in order to make sure that Clarissa does not fall under St. Albans's spell, and in order to keep this very fascinating young lady for himself. But what will happen when Clarissa discovers that Evan is not the rake she thinks he is?<br />Plot-wise, &quot;A Dangerous Compromise&quot; is very straight forward read. However the reason to read this novel lies in the complexities of the characters depicted in this novel. To begin with there is Clarissa Dewhurst: is one of the most complex of young romance heroines I've ever come across -- mercurial in her humours, willful and stubborn; she is also generous and loyal, and very vulnerable. The bleak insights that Shannon Donnelly provides us with about Clarissa's childhood and her parents makes us empathise with this very bullheaded heroine, and hope that she discovers what she is TRULY looking for before it is too late. It also successfully explains her rather twisted fixation on finding a rake. Also I really liked that Shannon Donnelly made every character, secondary and primary, really interesting. Clarissa's best friend, Jane, for example. She does not figure much in this novel, but when she is onstage, we are treated to what a plainnish young woman, thinks and feels about being the best friend of a real beauty -- the alternating flashes of envy, love, and concern really come through. Likewise, I also liked her portrayal of the rake St. Albans. Ms Donnelly lets us see why rakes are so dangerous by accurately portraying both the charming and the cold and ruthless aspects of his character. <br />&quot;A Dangerous Compromise&quot; is not your usual Regency romance fair. It's quite a bit darker, and far more rich and complex. And if you are a fan of the works of Maria Edgeworth and Mary Brunton, then you will definitely enjoy this wonderful novel.	2001-06-22
1949354:US	52830980	R2J3K3EP5067D3	0451203852	612177562	A Diamond in the Rough (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Diamond In The Rough	The strangest thing happened while I was reading &quot;A Diamond In The Rough&quot; by Andrea Pickens. I found myself being more intrigued and interested in a secondary character in this novel, Lady Honoria Dunster, than I was in the two 'romantic' leads, Viscount Marquand and Derrien Edwards. Andrea Pickens had textured this rather complex character in such a way that she completely captured my attention and sympathies, and I found myself (unfairly perhaps) skimming pages until I got to the parts that dealt with Lady Honoria.<br />But to get back to the plot of this interesting novel: Adrian Linsley, Viscount Marquand, is not a typical pink of the ton. The son of an intemperate drunk and gambler, he has learnt to master his emotions and passions, and has worked hard at earning a reputation for moderate behaviour and paying off his father's debts. And just when he thinks he has finally reached the pinnacle of satisfaction (he has successfully gotten himself engaged to the very proper Lady Honoria Dunster), he learns that his father has staked the ancestral home on the outcome of a game of golf! Marquand is horrified -- he really loves his home but he knows next to nothing about golf. And so he finds himself on his way to Scotland to master the game. Once there, he is paired up with a very insolent young caddie named Derry. Derry is the very best there is to be had, however his insolence and sneers grate on Marquand's nerves. Will Marquand be able to put up with Derry's incivility in order to learn how to play golf?<br />Derry is actually Miss Derrien Edwards, and she hates the English with a passion: she is the by-product of her mother's unfortunate seduction by an English officer. Because of her circumstances, she's had a rather unusual upbringing, and her two passions are landscape gardening and golf. And in order to help out her mentor who nutured her love of golf, she agrees to work with Marquand, in spite of her great dislike of English lords. But Marquand proves to be not exactly what she expected. True, he is as arrogant as she expected, but his restraint in the face of her disdainful manner, gives her pause. Surely she could not be finding herself susceptible to Marquand, could she?<br />&quot;A Diamond In The Rough&quot; is a well written novel, and gives you a glimpse of what the game of golf was like during the Regency period. The novel possesses three storylines: the Marquand-Derry/Derrien-golf/gardening subplotplot; the subplot involving Lady Honoria; and the subplot involving the Lord Hertford, the gambler who maneuvers Marquand's father into staking the Linley ancestral home on the outcome of the golf match. The first two subplots are well thought out and depicted. The Lord Hertford subplot, however left me with a few unanswered questions: why did he so desperately want to ruin Marquand's father. And why did Derrien hate him so? From the manner in which things were developing in the first chapter, I expected a rather dark story involving Hertford to materialize. This however did not happen. <br />All in all however, &quot;A Diamond In the Rough&quot; is a rather enjoyable read (although the were a few editorial mistakes that apparently no one caught. Lady Honoria Dunster for example is referred to as Lady Honoria in the first half of the book, and Miss Honoria in the later half).  The story unfolded at a brisk pace and Andrea Pickens has portrayed all the characters in this novel rather well -- both Marquand and Derrien were well depicted, as was the romance between them. The only reason I can come up with as to why I enjoyed reading more about Lady Honoria was that her's was the only really textured character. With the others, what you 'saw' was what you got; but with Lady Honoria, you knew almost at once that there was a whole lot more waiting to be revealed. And I'm really glad that Andrea Pickens gave this character the prominence that she deserved.	2001-06-22
1956950:US	52830980	R34LVZTPH8KEKB	0843948884	688179077	Fallen (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	a fun read	Izzy Temple is having a rather nice erotic dream when she discovers to her horror that there is actually a man in her bed, attempting to make love to her. Fighting for her virtue, she screams for help even as she conks her unknown assailant with a candlestick. And in the chaos that ensues, she realises that her attacker, Lord Eppingham, Julian Rowley, had drunkenly mistaken her room for another's (Lady Bottomly). Even as everyone is screaming denouncements at the semiconscious Rowley, Izzy only knows the need to protect him and Lady Bottomly. And so she claims that they (Izzy &amp; Rowley) were having a lovers's quarrel, thus destroying her own reputation, unless of course Rowley proposes marriage to her. <br />Rowley has no intention of being trapped into marrying a plain spinster with little expectations. However his father, who seems to dislike him completely, threatens to disinherit him unless he marries Izzy. But Izzy has no intention of marrying Rowley, preferring the life of an independent woman with a tarnished reputation to the confining one of a wife. However to help Rowley out, she agrees to a pretend betrothal. Rowley's plan however is to make this pretend engagement real in order to preserve his inheritance. Will Rowley succeed in persuading Izzy to tie her lot to his? Izzy, on the other hand has plans of her own, and dreams of starting a new life for herself far from her selfish relatives. But she is also dangerously close to completely losing her heart to Rowley. Will Izzy be able to be strong and end this sham engagement when the time comes? Will she even want to?<br />&quot;Fallen&quot; by Celeste Bradley, is primarily a really excellent read. The basic plot device of this novel is the Cinderella one. Except that over here Cinderella is plain, intelligent and a lot more confrontational. Izzy Temple is a wonderful and capable heroine; I thoroughly enjoyed watching Izzy cross swords with all the nasty characters in this novel, and come out on top. I had only one reservation: there were too many subplots -- one subplot in particular deserved a book of its own (the subplot involving Izzy's unlikely friendship with Lady Bottomly, and Lady Bottomly's marital problems) and some subplots could have done with a little more exposition (the subplot involving Izzy's only semi decent relative, Millie, for example). So much occurs in this novel, and there are so many subplots -- there is the subplot involving Izzy's cruel relatives; the Lady Bottomly subplot; the subplot involving Rowley's angry father, and the impossible father-son relationship that they have; and of course there is the Izzy-Rowley subplot -- and all this makes for some rather exciting and compelling reading. For the most part, it all works and comes together rather well. It was only when I finished the novel that I realised that Lady Bottomly truly deserved a book of her own, and that a few of the subplots could have done with a bit more exposition. And it just seemed a shame to waste so much good material on the rather hurried manner in which all subplots and loose ends were tied up.	2001-06-16
1958436:US	52830980	R3I6QHHHCF725R	0451202600	423542294	The Rake's Fiancee (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	The Rake's Fiancee	Many years ago, Phoebe Lowell's guardian advised her against accepting Lt. Bennett Holden's proposal of marriage, painting him as a profligate and a rake. And when Phoebe confronted Bennett with her uncle's charges, the angry young man refused to refute the accussations -- Bennett believed strongly in 'never apologise, never explain' school of thought, and felt that Phoebe should trust him. And so the couple parted with a lot of hurt and angry feelings between them. Now almost ten years later, Phoebe is alone in the world and penniless, reduced to being a porcelain painter in Shropshire. Often she's wondered if there was any truth to her uncle's accusations against Bennett at all, or if he made up the whole thing up. However all that is in the past and Phoebe is firmly resolved to put the past behind her especially now when as luck would have it she is about to cross paths with Bennett Holden again. For Bennett is no longer in the army and has inherited a barony in the very village that Phoebe currently works and lives in. Phoebe is resolved to avoid Bennett as much as possible; however a snow storm and a wrenched knee conspire against her. <br />On her way home from work on day, Phoebe is caught in a storm, and wrenches her knee. The closest thing to any kind of shelter is Holden Hall. Thinking that Bennett is not in residence, Phoebe inveigles her way in by pretending to be Holden's fiance. Imagine her horror and consternation when she finds herself sharing his bed! Bennett for his part is astounded at seeing Phoebe again after all these years, and still bitter that she broke his heart with her rejection, comes up with a nasty little plan to exact revenge on Phoebe by first seducing her and then rejecting her. To this end, he pretends to have lost his memory, and asks Phoebe to help him recover his memory by telling him of their past. Feeling sorry for Bennett and wanting to help, Phoebe agrees to help him. But Bennett's plan begins to work in ways that he himselfdid not expect, for as Bennett begins to relive his past, he also begins to fall in love with Phoebe all over again, esp with this new Phoebe who seems older, wiser and more compassionate. Where will this deception end? And will Phoebe forgive Bennett when she discovers his nasty plan?<br />A while back I ranted against this kind of seduction-revenge plot motif, wondering how the heroine could forgive the hero for being so ignoble as to use seduction as revenge. And I'll admit that while I'm still not a fan of this plot device, I do think that Martha Kirkland has made this novel a little more appetising by providing Phoebe and Bennett with an enclosed environment (Holden Hall), so that they can each work out their  feelings about the past and each other. The added subplots involving Bennett's eccentric grand aunt and the mysterious goings on at Holden Hall, allow for Bennett and Phoebe to get to know each other all over again, and to grow closer. The fact that Phoebe is not at all the patient Griselda type also helps. This is a romance novel, so we all know how it will end, so might I also add that unlike other novels with similar plot lines where I have almost screamed in frustration, I actually sighed with relief when I finished &quot;The Rake's Fiancee.&quot; I'm still not a fan of the seduction-revenge plot, but this novel won me over and was definitely a good read.	2001-06-15
1958509:US	52830980	R1ORF1TZ6CV8GH	0515130621	372328765	Never a Bride	Books	4	3	4	N	N	intrepid heroine makes this Regency novel truly worthwhile	I enjoyed reading this novel very much, and mainly because of the novel's one of a kind heroine, Mirabella Whittingham. Mirabella is exactly the kind of brave, intrepid and determined heroine that will have most readers rooting for her. Here is a woman who is firmly resolved to discover who seduced her cousin (Sarah), and to bring him to justice, no matter what it costs her. Mirabella is strong, loyal and charming. She fully realises that her scheme to unmask this villain is fool hardy and daring and could spell her social ruin, but she is still determined to carry on anyway, in spite of what others (the ton) think and despite the harm it could do to her reputation, and that makes her a truly admirable young woman. <br />The novel unfolds at a brisk and smooth pace; and the attraction that Camden and Mirabella feel for each other fairly shimmers with every page. And while both principal characters are well developed, the minor characters could have done with a little more development; but then this is really Mirabella's and Camden's story, so that that is not too much of a detraction. Only one thing about this novel made me grit my teeth: and that is the language. Every now and then Amelia Grey would frame certain chapters with a column from a newspaper, 'Society's Daily Column,' but the language she used in this column was rather 20th century, and just didn't gel with the rest of the novel. Likewise Sarah's (the dead cousin) diary entries which all started with 'Dear Diary.' I'm fairly certain that the women of the Regency era did not start off their diaries in such a manner. However I did enjoy reading &quot;Never A Bride.&quot; Both Mirabella and Camden are the kind of grown up hero and heroine that makes romance novels satisfying to read, and totally deserved the 'happily ever-after' ending that this novel promised. This is a novel well worth reading and recommending.	2001-06-15
1961844:US	52830980	R1V95VDP2UAC88	0886779154	284259492	The Serpent's Shadow (Elemental Masters, Book 1)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	a wonderful read	I found Mercedes Lackey's &quot;The Serpent's Shadow&quot; to be a really fun read. The best way to encapsulate this novel is to describe is as Dr. Bramwell (a PBS Masterpiece Theatre series about a female doctor in the early 1900s) meets Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. The characters were all well developed and portrayed, and the whole plot premise, while it is an old one, and much used, came alive in a new and fresh manner under Ms Lackey's skilled hands. I read this novel in one go -- I just couldn't put this novel down. And while I'm quite a science fantasy fan, what I really liked about &quot;The Serpent's Shadow&quot; was the bits that dwelt with Maya's struggle to be a good doctor in the face of gender and racial prejudice. I think that Ms Lackey handled this theme very well, and very realistically. I also liked the subplot involving the Exeter Lodge, and their fastidious and rigid attitudes about 'aliens' -- i.e. women &amp; foreigners. The frustration that Peter Cook, the Water Master, felt at the stubborn prejudices of the older and more aristocratic members, and their short sighted views on how to deal with the threat that Shrivani posed, was masterly portrayed. I'd also like to counter what a previous reviewer wrote about Ms Lackey and her negative depiction of Hinduism. I don't think that she did this  at all. In all cultures and religions, there is good and evil. Ms Lackey depicted both aspects of this in this novel. The thing is the wicked stepmother in this novel is an Indian woman who is a practioner of one of the more destructive forms of Hinduism. And what I saw was how hate and the thirst for absolute power can pervert an individual's soul, in this case Shrivani's soul, rather than a indictmnet about the entire religion. And anyway it was Eastern forces that defeated Shrivani in the end, not Western one. So that you could sat that everything balanced out in the end.<br />&quot;The Serpent's Shadow&quot; is an excellent read and well worth recommending.	2001-06-12
1963460:US	52830980	RUKGNNL0OZP40	0385333625	28662957	Enchanting Pleasures	Books	4	21	21	N	N	an enchanting read	&quot;Enchanting Pleasures&quot; is, I think, the best Regency romance novel that Eloisa James has written to date. And while the whole premise of Quill Dewland's illness seems a bit unbelievable to me, the story line and characters are still enjoyable and crisp, and made for riveting reading.<br />Viscount Dewland owes his good friend Jerningham a large sum of money, and instead of repaying the loan, which he can now do because of his eldest son's, Quill, industriousness, the Viscount has decided that his younger son, Peter, will marry Jerningham daughter, Gabrielle. (Quill quite ineligible because of an accident that makes it difficult and painful for him to perform his martial duties.) Peter is aghast: a fastidious man with firm ideas of what his wife should look and be like, he is appalled at having to marry a woman sight unseen, esp as he has no immediate desire to do so right now. However the Viscount is adamant and quite ill, and so Peter finds himself agreeing to marry Gabrielle in order to placate his father.<br />Of course Gabrielle Jerningham ('Gabby') is the exact antithesis of Peter's notions of the perfect woman. Gabby is a pretty, plump, warm hearted and clever young woman, whose charming manners and winning ways soon enchants everyone she meets ... except Peter. Peter only sees that his fiance is unpolished and unsophisticated, with dreadful clothes and hair that keeps falling down. Quill however finds Gabby to be absolutely captivating. However there is the small matter of his illness, and even if it were not for that, Gabby is still Peter's fiancee. In the meantime, romantical Gabby, who had fallen in love with Peter's likeness, realises that Peter is quite disappointed with her. She is resolved to try and live up to his expectations in order to win his approval, but is not quite sure of what else to do save dress more elegantly. She is also rather disconcerted to realise that Quill's mere presence seems to thrill her, and the fact that Quill seemsto have an appreciation of her intelligence and warmth in a way that Peter does not. Gabby is quite confused at the turn things have taken, when news arrives that the Viscount's illness has taken a turn for the worse; Peter leaves London in order to support his mother, leaving Gabby to spend more time with Quill. What will happen? Will Quill and Gabby realise that they are meant for each other? And what of Peter?<br />I enjoyed &quot;Enchanting Pleasures&quot; especially because of Gabby Jerningham. She is such a warm hearted, intelligent, charming and straightforward young woman, and I really found myself rooting for her to find her soul mate. There are three subplots to this novel: the Gabby-Peter-Quill subplot, the finding a cure for Quill's illness subplot, and the missing Indian prince subplot. All three subplots are woven together rather well. The missing Indian prince subplot is a rather interesting and informative one, esp if you are interested in a small thumbnail sketch in what was going on in India during the early 19th century, and with the East Indian Company. I found the whole Quill's mysterious illness bit a little far fetched, but then I'm not that well informed on medical matters, and perhaps Quill's illness is probable. <br />&quot;Enchanted Pleasures&quot; is an enjoyable read. There were several instances when I found myself chuckling out loud: as when Gabby realising that neither brother really listens to her when she speaks, wonders if not really listening is an inherited trait; and when Gabby pretends to be an empty-headed young lady when she is questioned by an East Indian Army official about the missing prince's whereabouts. This is a really fun novel and made for really enchanting reading.	2001-06-11
1970298:US	52830980	RUBXJT4VYCAGF	082177039X	230895506	Miss Truelove Beckons (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	a very tasteful romance novel	&quot;Miss Truelove Beckons&quot; is a rather touching love story about the meeting of true minds and spirits, misunderstandings, and of how (in novels anyway) true love always triumphs.<br />Wycliffe Prescott, Viscount Drake, has returned from the wars a weary and broken man. The horrors of the Napoleonic Wars are still fresh in his mind, and his mother's constant reminders that he should marry and set up his nursery, only adds to the his feeling of malaise. He does however attempt to pull himself together, especially as his mother has invited her good friend, Lady Swinley, together with Lady Swinley's beautiful daughter, Arabella, and her niece, Miss Truelove Becket to Lea Park for the summer. Both Wycliffe's mother and Lady Swinley have hopes of promoting a match between Wycliffe and Arabella. However Wycliffe confounds everyone by being drawn to the poor cousin, Truelove Bucket, instead. Her sweet voice and gentle nature is a balm to his troubled soul -- Truelove seems to be instinctively able to sense what is wrong with Wycliffe and to know how to deal with him, much to the horror, chagrin and anger of Lady Swinley and Arabella. Before too long Wycliffe and Truelove have fallen in love with each other, though neither suspects that their love is reciprocated. And then Arabella, suspecting that she is getting no where with the viscount, lies to her cousin that she is in love with Wycliffe herself. Truelove is a humble vicar's daughter who has no expectation of ever winning such a man as Wycliffe Prescott for herself, so that when a letter arrives from her father bidding her to come home, she leaves Lea Park with little ceremony.<br />Arabella Swinley now makes her bid to win Wycliffe's affections. But she has been trained to be the perfect tonnish young lady, and has no understanding for Wycliffe's humours or the kinds of issues that move him -- making things easier for his tenants, relief for the war veterans, etc. However she must obtain a proposal of marriagefrom Wycliffe, for Arabella and her mother are quite penniless, and they face a life of abject poverty, unless Arabella marries well. How will things pan out? Will Arabella sacrifice her cousin's happiness for her own self interest? Will Truelove and Wycliffe find true happiness and fulfillment in each other?<br />I rather enjoyed this novel. The book doesn't boast of a very complex plot, and the characters are all pretty much the average stock of characters: hero, heroine, silly male friend, manipulative older woman, understanding mother, difficult to like younger woman, etc. Truelove Becket is probably one of the gentlest and sweetest of heroines -- I don't think she lost her temper even once in this novel, not even when Arabella was having one of her hysterical tantrums. Wycliffe Prescott is true to form as the troubled and dashing hero. Strangely enough however I was most intrigued by the character of Arabella Swinley, who veered from seeming quite shallow and manipulative to showing some backbone and affection for her cousin. I wouldn't be at all surprised if there is a novel in the works that features the rehabilitation of Arabella. I do hope so for I'm quite looking forward to that!<br />&quot;Miss Truelove Beckons&quot; is a very tasteful romance novel, and is well worth a five star rating.	2001-06-06
1971620:US	52830980	R2APFTOET1QJWF	0821770640	799134638	The Perfect Husband (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	The Perfect Husband	When Lady Lillian Temple discovers that her father has foolishly speculated away all his wealth, she decides that a life of genteel poverty is not for her or her young brother, and so decides to entrap an eligible bachelor into marriage. She carefully selects the dashing Lord Melwin, a man of wealth and some political standing -- Lady Lillian has decided that she would rather like leading the life of a political hostess. Unfortunately for Lady Lillian, Lord Melwin leaves the house party on the very night she has decided to brazenly carry out her plan, and gives his room to his best friend, Lord Anthony Wendover. Wendover is also a man of some wealth but is more a fashion arbiter than a political animal. Poor Lady Lillian finds herself compromising the wrong man, and walking down the aisle with someone who seems to dislike her a great deal!<br />Lord Anthony Wendover had always believed he would marry for love. His parents' wonderful marriage have been an example of what he would like his own marriage to have been. And now he finds himself married to a conniving young woman, who on top of it all has a tendre for his best friend! However his friends and his parents urge him to try and get to know his wife, and to make his marriage work. The burning question then is if Wendover can look past his anger and disappointment in order to make this hasty marriage work. <br />&quot;The Perfect Husband&quot; is a rather goodish read. I felt quite sorry for Lady Lillian, who had no one to turn to for help, as well as for Lord Anthony who saw his dream of marrying for love go up in smoke. Both characters are somewhat well developed, and I quite liked the manner in which Jeanne Savery built on this theme of a married couple getting to know each other from the very beginning and attempting to make their marriage work. I only had two caveats: Lady Lillian's real character and motivations only seemed to come to the fore when she was with her best friend, Elizabeth Browne. Unfortunately, Miss Browne does not figure into this novel very much. Wendover's friends figure a lot more but they do not throw as much light onto his character and motivations as Miss Browne did for Lady Lillian. The second caveat I had dealt with the entire Sahib motif. Sahib is a tiger who seems to enjoy the role of cupid. I found the whole last bit of the novel where the tiger more or less forced the couple to spend time alone with each other too contrived. Anthony and Lillian were already beginning to like, respect, and feel the beginnings of love for each other. There really was no need for Sahib to have interfered.<br />All in all &quot;The Perfect Husband&quot; is quite a good read, especially because of it's warm hearted and gallant heroine.	2001-06-05
1972356:US	52830980	R4GUG617BEFN7	0892967056	687891835	Slayer of Gods	Books	5	5	7	N	N	well worth the wait	It's been two years since the second installment in the trilogy dealing with Queen Nefretit's murder (the &quot;Drinker of Blood&quot;) was published, but it was well worth the wait. The &quot;Slayer of Gods&quot; ends this trilogy in a successful, brilliant and satisfying manner. And while it is not absolutely essential to reread the first two installments of this trilogy, the &quot;Eater of Souls&quot; &amp; the &quot;Drinker of Blood,&quot; I'd advise it anyway just so that you can appreciate every nuance and atmosphere of suspense and tension apparent in the &quot;Slayer of Gods.&quot;<br />Lord Meren, the Eyes of Pharaoh, is still recovering from the arrow wound he received while saving King Tutankhamun from an assassin's arrow. But it is a very uneasy convalescence for Meren: he senses that while he is honing in on the man who provided the poison with which Nefretiti was murdered, the time for successfully apprehending the culprit may be running out, especially as the poisoner has been successfully tying up loose ends by removing anyone who could point a finger at him before Meren can get to them! Meren had finally narrowed down his suspects to three men: Yamen, a corrupt army official, who it now appears was definitely working for the poisoner, and who was murdered before Meren could extract anything useful from him; the Syrian arms dealer, Dilalu; and the extremely rich and elusive merchant, Zulaya. Because Meren knows very little about these two men, and because he now needs the help of someone whom he can trust implicitly, Meren has recalled to Egypt, Anath, the Eyes of Babylon -- a woman of great intelligence, resourcefulness and beauty. Together, two of the pharaoh's most formidable agents begin the task of tracking down this elusive enemy of Egypt's, who successfully poisoned it's queen, and who still seems to have some nefarious intent on the young boy king, Tutankhamun. However before Meren and Anath have even begun their investigations, one of Meren's daughters, Bener, is kidnapped. And Meren is warned that if he wishes to see Bener alive again, he will give up the investigation. What can Meren do? Will he do as Bener's kidnappers demand? Or will he continue to seek out Nefretit's murderer in spite of the threat to his child's life?<br />The Lord Meren mystery series is, in my opinion, the best mystery series dealing with the Egypt of the pharaohs. There are six mysteries in this series so far, and all of them have been stirring, complex and suspenseful ones. I'm completely hooked on this series, and I really hope that I won't have to wait another two years for the next Lord Meren mystery! The &quot;Slayer of Gods&quot; is an absolutely brilliant mystery. The atmosphere of suspense and tension was carefully maintained from the first page to the last! The cast of characters, from Meren and his family, to the most minor of suspects, is well developed and depicted; and while this intriguing plot does not have many twists and turns, I was still riveted to the goings-on on the page. The &quot;Slayer of Gods&quot; is a great read, and was a satisfying ending to the trilogy dealing with Nefretiti's death.	2001-06-05
1975527:US	52830980	R3K1RD70FBQTAB	0425179486	487921514	The Tainted Snuff Box	Books	4	4	5	N	N	an intriguing and delightful mystery	No sooner has he successfully solved the murder of a rather obnoxious countess, then Beau Brummell finds himself embroiled in a new mystery: that of discovering who wants to murder the Prince of Wales!<br />Convinced that someone is trying to assassinate him, the Prince of Wales has moved his court to the Pavilion in Brighton. Brummell, having completed his commission (from the Duchess of York, no less) to discover who had actually murdered the poisonous Countess of Wraybourne, has decided to shake the dust of London from his elegant boots, and join his prince at the sea resort. However things at the Pavilion prove to be tense and unpleasant. The Prince has surrounded himself with guards, and seems to be perpetually in the company of a rather odious baronet, Sir Simon, who has appointed himself the Prince's official food taster. Brummell is appalled at the situation. Not only is Sir Simon a horrid little toad of a man, with little manners and an excruciating taste in clothes, but he also seems to hold a rather unhealthy sway over the Prince of Wales, and looks close to usurping Brummell's place in the Prince's life. The only bright spark currently is that the Duchess of York is also in residence, so that Brummell can now spend as much time as he'd like with the woman who has first place in his heart.<br />One morning while walking on the beach with the Duchess, the pair discover the body of a young well dressed young lady. Preliminary examinations reveal that she was killed by a sharp blow to the head and then thrown into the sea. No one knows who the young lady is, and she seems destined for an unmarked grave. However events soon unfold in a manner that claims Brummell's attention away from the unknown woman. Brummell's good friend Petersham has just created a new blend of snuff, and has promised the Prince that he will be the first to try it. And so the following night Petersham presents the Prince with his new blend. But before the Prince can take a pinch, Sir Simon insists on sampling the snuff first. Imagine everyone's horror when Sir Simon violently chokes to death before their very eyes. Suspicion falls on Petersham for trying to murder the Prince. Brummell knows that his friend is innocent, but has a hard time making his point the hysterical Prince of Wales and the unimaginative Bow Street Runners. He is further hampered by Petersham himself who does not seem to see the danger he is in, and refuses to take the investigation seriously. Brummell soon comes to the conclusion that only he can save his friend from ruin and discover who poisoned the snuff and why.<br />&quot;The Tainted Snuff Box&quot; is a really fun read that successfully transported me to English drawing rooms of the early 19th century. While the plot of this mystery is not too complex, it is a very interesting and intriguing one. The mystery unfolded at a brisk and fast pace, and the characters, primary and secondary, were all well developed; I especially liked that Rosemary Stevens inserted the fascinating Lydia Lavender into this mystery. This is one appealing and interesting character that really made this novel more enjoyable for me. &quot;The Tainted Snuff Box&quot; is a charming and delightful mystery, and definitely a fun read.	2001-06-02
1976420:US	52830980	R1YK3UOELQZ98V	157566657X	621705942	Stabbing Stephanie: A Jane Stuart and Winky Mystery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	an absorbing read	Things are finally looking up for Jane Stuart, the proud owner of the Jane Stuart Literary Agency. Not only is her relationship with Stanley Greenburg, a police detective, well on course, but her business is also doing well, so that she can finally afford to go on a much needed vacation. And while the unwelcome news that there has been a spate of break-ins in her neighbourhood alarms her, she's not about to allow the news to cramp her good mood. And then Jane receives a 'phone call from her late husband's cousin, Stephanie. Stephanie's best friend from college, Faith Carson, and Faith's second husband, Gavin Hart, have decided to move their new publishing firm to Shady Hills, and Stephanie has been offered a job as an editor. So Stephanie will be relocating to Shady Hills and needs a place to stay until she can find more permanent housing. Although Jane remembers Stephanie as a self absorbed and rather acerbic person, familial obligations force Jane to offer Stephanie temporary housing until Stepahnie can sort herself out. Jane tells herself that she will not have to deal with Stephanie very much especially since she will soon be leaving for her holiday anyway, but Stephanie's snobbishness and racism soon leaves Jane wishing that she didn't have to deal with Stephanie at all!<br />Soon however events spiral in a way jolts Jane completely. First there is another break-in. This time however, there is an eye witness: the housekeeper observes the whole crime, and not only got a good look at the burglar but also who commissioned the crime. But because she is an illegal alien, she tells the police nothing, choosing instead to confide in Jane's housekeeper, Florence. Florence and Jane try to convince the woman to talk to the police, but even before they can make any headway, the housekeeper is murdered. And then Stephanie comes to Jane with the story that there is something very wrong going on in the new publishing firm. And the information she offers leads Jane to conclude that the murder and the goings on at the firm are somehow linked. Feeling an obligation to help Stephanie, and wanting to discover who murdered Florence's friend, Jane goes undercover to discover what is going on. Jane however has a deadline to solve the mystery before her vacation starts. Will she be able to meet this deadline? And will she find that it was worthwhile putting herself in harm's way for Stephanie?<br />&quot;Stabbing Stephanie&quot; is a really fun read. To begin with the novel has that small town atmosphere and the few characters that this novel deals with were well portrayed and depicted, especially Stephanie. A very complex woman, who veers from coming across as being vulnerable to being manipulative and obnoxious. I found myself torn between feeling sorry for her and disliking her completely. The mystery novel however takes quite a while to take off -- from the title you already know that Stephanie is going to be killed off. However this does not happen until the novel is nearly over! Evan Marshall spends alot of time and effort setting the stage and drawing you into the plot. And the effort paid off. I thoroughly lost myself in the unfolding drama of what was going on in Faith Carson's publishing firm, and how everything seemed to be tied to her past. Another thing I liked about this novel was the insider's look that Evan Marshall provided us with on all the wheeling and dealing that goes on in the publishing world, making you realse that talent is not enough -- you really need the services of a savvy agent as well!<br />&quot;Stabbing Stephanie&quot; may not be a 'straight' mystery, but it is a well crafted novel and makes for riveting reading.	2001-06-01
1980605:US	52830980	R3FHXVFIY9TYAP	1581821883	674529423	Murder on Good Friday (Lord Godwin Medieval Mysteries)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	an exciting read	I am an avid reader of historical mysteries, esp of mysteries set in the middle ages. So I was quite ecstatic to find a new historical mystery series set in 13th century England. &quot;Murder On A Good Friday&quot; by Sara Conway is a well researched and well written mystery set in the small northern town of Hexham, and features the detecting skills of the bailiff of Hexham, Lord Goodwin, and his cousin by marriage, Lady Constance of Broadweal Manor.<br />The novel opens with the discovery of a young child's body a few days after Good Friday. Alfred, the unfortunate victim, had been first strangled and then mutilated: his palms bear puncture wounds, as if nails had been driven through them. Horror and panic strikes the town, and in the grip of fear and superstition, the Christian townspeople turn on the small Jewish community that resides in Hexham. Lord Goodwin, the bailiff, does not believe his Jewish friends are at all responsible for the crime, and has a hard time preventing the rabid townsmen from taking revenge. His task is not made easier when one of the newly arrived brothers from the nearby priory of St. Andrews claims that he has had a vision: Alfred is a martyr to the Christian faith because he was slain by the enemies of Christ. Alfred seeks vengeance. The Jews must be punished. Goodwin realises that it is only a matter of time before all hell breaks loose. Will he be able to discover who murdered Alfred before it is too late?<br />&quot;Murder On A Good Friday&quot; is a really riveting read. Sara Conway maintained the level of tension and suspense throughout the novel. With each succeeding chapter you wonder if Goodwin will be successful in preventing the lynching of the Jews to take place, and if will discover who perpetrated such a foul deed. Conway also did a brilliant job in bringing the small, sleepy town of Hexham to life, and in portraying the various relationships the inhabitants had with each other -- the Jews with the Christians, Goodwin withhis constables and the townspeople, and the priory with the town. Unfortuantely, the denouncement of the mystery left a little to be desired: key bits of information were only revealed at the very end, and certain incidents and discoveries took place 'offstage.' However this was an exciting and compelling read, and I enjoyed the novel very much.	2001-05-29
1982542:US	52830980	R1O5EY6FCWP2Y3	0425179451	845335712	Death by Darjeeling (A Tea Shop Mystery)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	a goodish read	&quot;Death by Darjeeling&quot; is a goodish read: rich in ambience and tea lore; and filled with quite a few interesting and eccentric characters. The detecting part of the mystery did take a while to take off, and the air of suspense and tension was not always there. However Laura Childs has provided us with a truly likable and intelligent detective in Theodosia Browning, as well as a nice supporting cast of characters in Theodosia's employees at the Indigo Tea Shop, so that eventhough I was a little disappointed with the mystery, I was totally won over by the characters and the overall mood of this novel.<br />Things are looking up for Theodosia Browning, proud owner of Charleston's Indigo Tea Shop -- not only is business bristling over nicely, but the Indigo Tea Shop will also be catering the garden party for Charleston's annual Historic Homes Garden Party, and a perfect opportunity for Theodosia to try out a few new blends on the public. However things don't exactly unfold as she expects them to: Bethany, an employee, stumbles onto one of the guests dead and clutching an empty teacup. Forensic evidence shows that there was poison in the teacup, and the hotshot detective in charge of the investigation seems to have zeroed in on Bethany as the poisoner. Theodosia is appalled at the situation: all kinds of rumours are swilling the streets and her business is beginning to suffer as a result; but she is also angry that the police seem to be satisfied at hounding Bethany instead of looking more closely at others who definitely have more motive than Bethany! Especially when the victim turns out to be the shady developer, Hughes Barron, who has ruffled more than a few feathers in Charleston. Theodosia is determined to discover who spiked the victim's teacup and to get Bethany off the hook. But Barron seems to have someone that aroused strong passions, and more than one suspect has Theodosia wondering if she has unwittingly put herself in harm's way...<br />Laura Childshas successfully transmuted the feel and flavour of the historic section of Charleston; and I found the bits of information about the different types of Chinese teas, and the correct steeping time, to be invaluable. The plot was an intriguing one, and the characters were interesting and well rounded out. Only two factors marred my total enjoyment of this novel: 1)I couldn't understand how a supposed hotshot detective who had worked with the FBI no less and who had nabbed a serial killer even after the trail was cold, could be so short sighted as to concentrate on only one suspect. This just didn't ring true to me. And 2) the air of suspense and tension was not well maintained at all, and this did detract a little from this otherwise rather excellent novel.<br />Barring my nitpicking, &quot;Death By Darjeeling&quot; was a very good read, and I'm looking forward to the next 'tea' mystery.	2001-05-28
1985061:US	52830980	R3HRFJR232PFN2	0449006409	798192189	Dying to Be Murdered (Jennifer Marsh Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	great read	The plot of this novel has already been detailed rather nicely, so I'll just stick to what I liked. To begin, &quot;Dying To Be Murdered&quot; is quite the page turner, and the chapters that deal with Jennifer's first visit to Ashton mansion, and her overnight stay, are quite atmospheric -- a mansion that fairly reeks of secrets and decay; a very sinister housekeeper; and the very fact that Jennifer is given the bedroom of Mary Bedford Ashton's dead stepdaughter! A room that only locks from the outside, and has not seen any redecorating since the girl's suicide!! You don't get much more atmospheric than that! Another thing I liked about this mystery novel was all the twists and turns the plot took. Jennifer starts out thinking that Mary Bedford Ashton is senile and a little paranoid, but likable, but soon realises that she has been expertly manipulated, and that Mary may not be all that nice after all. As usual all the members of Jennifer's writers's group is at hand to provide help, support and wacky deductions, thus adding fun quota to the novel. And what I most liked about &quot;Dying To Be Murdered&quot; was that if you really paid attention to all that is said by the suspects and to Jennifer's stream of consciousness manner of thinking, you actually solve the mystery before the final chapter! <br />The pacing of the novel was taught and brisk; the plot unfolded in a very satisfactory and logical manner; and the characters were all neatly portrayed. &quot;Dying To Be Murdered&quot; is a really fun read, and I think that it is the best Jennifer Marsh mystery to date.	2001-05-25
1985137:US	52830980	RE579QUJ4P7D0	0670896365	572282069	Undercurrents	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Undercurrents	&quot;Undercurrents&quot; by Frances Fyfield is a rather difficult book for me to write about, mainly because all the reservations I had about this novel stems from my disagreement (with the authour) with the manner in which matters were left. If I were to voice my opinions openly, then that would be giving away plot resolutions, and that would be totally unfair to those who have not yet read this novel. But I'm going to try without giving too much away, and I apologise in advance if this review comes across as not being properly balanced.<br />Twenty years ago, Henry Evans walked away from the love of his life, Francesca Chisholm. His father's recent death however has brought Henry to the crossroads of his life sotospeak, and so he makes for the English coastal town of Warblings, to try and find Francesca. The England of his fantasies and England in reality are two very different things for this very shy American, and definitely the natives take a little getting used to; and while Henry didn't expect for his quest for Francesca to be incredibly easy, he didn't expect to discover that Francesca was in prison for having murdered her five year old son either. All his memories about Francesca, as well as his gut feelings tells him that she cannot be guilty of such a crime, in spite of her confession of having performed the deed. And so Henry, with no real skills in investigation, decides to try and discover what really happened that fateful day, a year ago. But he finds it rather stiff going: few want to talk about what happened, and Francesca's friends and family seem openly alarmed and hostile at his attempts to ferret out information. Henry must balance his memory of the girl of his dreams with what happened, and discover if his Francesca was indeed capable of so foul a deed, or if she is covering up for someone else.<br />To begin with this novel makes for some really compelling reading. At the heart of this novel is the characer of Francesca Chisolm: how she touched so many lives, and how she became the mainstay of so many people. Could a woman of such seemingly goodness be capable of so brutal and heinous a crime? Fyfield handles this concept in a really brilliant manner by interposing the chapters that deal with Henry's seemingly inept investigations with Francesca's own prison writings. This really made the novel a lot more intersting, because you got to know the real Francesca from her writings, instead of being limited to other people's views of her. And the fact that I didn't really like anyone in this novel except for Francesca, didn't detract from my enjoyment of &quot;Undercurrents&quot; at all. Henry Evans is an improbable knight in shinning armour, mostly because I couldn't fathom how a successful 40 year old could be so ineffectual most of the time. I think Fyfield did this novel a great disservice by making Henry so feeble for the first half of the book. Also the reader is not given a very clear idea as to why Henry walked away from Francesca all those years ago, and I for one found this really frustrating. However he did pull up his socks towards the end of the novel, so all was not lost. My main reservation with this novel is in the ending, when you discover what really happened on the pier that fateful day. It makes for poignant reading when you realise that one character's firm resolve dictated the outcome of Francesca Chisolm's fate; and it was chilling to realise that a police investigation could be expertly sidelined. However I strongly disagreed with the manner in which things were left, and foresee years of therapy for certain characters in the future!<br />&quot;Undercurrents&quot; is a riveting read -- the plot is a clever and interesting one, and all the characters are well depicted and portrayed. Fyfield's view of a small, insular English coastal town seen through the eyes of an American were both funny and breath taking in turns. And though I didn't agree with the manner in which the novel ends, Ican still recommend this novel as an excellent read.	2001-05-25
1985469:US	52830980	R3CZVB9MJ2HOS7	0821769995	595851703	Racing To Ruin (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	spunky heroine and hero's witty banter makes this novel	Unlike the other debutantes of the Season, Sabrina Bennett has no desire to find a husband; for Sabrina has her whole life mapped out for herself: she's going to spend her life in solitude, reading and writing articles for the newspapers: a husband and children would only mess up this rosy dream she has for her future. Unfortunately for Sabrina, her grandfather wants her married and off his hands. So Sabrina comes up with what she thinks of as a brilliant plan to engineer her own social ruin, and so ensuring that her dreams will come true. With her sister's (Amanda) help, she draws up a list of rakes with which to carry out her plan. What Sabrina doesn't know is that Amanda has hopes of forestalling this harebrained scheme. Amanda skillfully maneuvers Sabrina into the path of Hunter Lancaster, the Earl of Greystone, a man with the rather sordid reputaion of having fathered his own stepsister's child. Amanda knows that Hunter is not the scoundrel that society has painted him out to be, and feels that Sabrina will be safe with him. <br />Hunter is furious when Sabrina propositions him to ruin her, and quite ruthlessly shots down her request. Little does Hunter expect that his path will cross Sabrina's again so soon after that! The next morning brings news of the horrific murder of a young debutante, Lady Jane. Sabrina is determined to discover who the murderer is, and invites herself to the house party of one of the suspects. Horrified at the turn of events, Amanda goes to Hunter for help. And so Hunter finds himself tracking down Sabrina, and assisting her (much against his will) in going through their &quot;host's&quot; personal effects. Imagine Hunter's surprise when Sabrina comes across a signet ring with a rather unique pattern that seems to suggest that Hunter's sister's seducer and the dead debutante's murder are somehow tied together. But how? However even before either Sabrina or Hunter can proceed with their investigations, all hell breaks loose. Somehow word of their outing has been leaked and Hunter is forced to offer for Sabrina, even as she is forced to accept his proposal of marriage. Can these two who seemingly have so little in common and who seem to grate on each other's nerves make this hasty marriage work? And will Hunter and Sabrina discover who murdered Lady Jane?<br />I rather enjoyed &quot;Racing to Ruin.&quot; It was a really fun read. Sabrina Bennett is so spunky, smart and vivacious, that she completely disarmed me even as I groaned over her rather teenage tendency to carry out a scheme without thinking it through! It is this pluck and resolution that makes her the perfect match for Hunter Lancaster in spite of the very obvious age difference between them. I also liked that Stacey Brown devoted quite a few chapters to showing these two trying to make their marriage work, and coming to terms with their different expectations. Something else that made this novel really enjoyable for me was Hunter and Sabrina's witty repartee. It's been quite a while since I read such banter. <br />All in all, &quot;Racing to Ruin&quot; is a really fun read, and well worth recommending.	2001-05-25
1995038:US	52830980	RMX68IC8YPNZA	0312872291	798059063	The King's Peace (The King's Peace, Book 1)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	first book in what looks like a great epic series	The &quot;King's Peace&quot; by Jo Walton has all the makings of a wonderful epic series that should definitely stand the test of time. Very loosely based on the Arthurian legend, this novel nonetheless does deal with similar issues: honour; courage; compromising with one's erstwhile enemies in order to realise the greater dream of a kingdom united and peace; living with the personal choices that one makes, and not allowing these choices to cripple you. Jo Walton's style of writing is a little dry and matter of fact, and lacks a little the lyricism that made Mary Stewart's Merlin series so memorable. However, her style of writing closely mirrors her heroine's speech patterns and manner, so that this restrained and plain narrative style really works and adds to the ambiance of the novel. And this brings me what I consider as Jo Walton's greatest contribution to the science ficiton world: her heroine, Sulien ap Gwien. I don't think I've come across quite so strong and courageous and likable a heroine in ever so long, and I'm ecstatic. There have been strong female warrior characters before, but none quite like Sulien. I also liked the manner in which Sulien's growth as a person, mirrors that of the kind of compromises that King Urdo makes in order to realise his dream of uniting his feuding and much besieged kingdom -- Sulien grows from a woman who wants to avenge herself on all Jarnish for the wrongs done to her and her family, to realising that not all Jarnish are evil and that some kind of compromise will have to be worked out with the Jarnish so that her world will have peace. And (I'm probably alone in this) I also liked that Jo Walton has abstained from providing Sulien with any kind of romantic interlude, and that indications are that she won't. Quite often science fantasy writers provide their heroines with a romance subplot, and this doesn't always work, and often detracts from the story at hand. I'm not sure if a romance subplot would detract or not, it depends on how Jo Walton handles it, but I really liked that there were no such distraction in the &quot;King's Peace.&quot;<br />This is a really great work of fiction, and I'm eagerly awaiting the next Sulien ap Gwien novel.	2001-05-18
1996550:US	52830980	RXPQGFXY5I7IG	0451202651	38498454	The Unsuitable Miss Martingale (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Immensely Suitable Miss Martingale	&quot;The Unsuitable Miss Martingale&quot; is a sequel to &quot;The Wary Widow&quot;; and while this novel is not the complex novel of intrigue that that novel was, &quot;The Unsuitable Miss Martingale&quot; still made for compelling reading.<br />The plot of &quot;The Unsuitable Miss Martingale&quot; revolves around that of its heroine, Lili Martingale, who was rescued from war torn France 4 years ago by Cornelia and Alaistair Russell (detailed in &quot;The Wary Widow&quot;). Since then, Lili has fulfilled the promise of growing up to become a very beautiful young lady. Lili's situation however is quite complicated. For while she is related to the aristocracy on her mother's side, her father was a nobody. And so while Lili can never hope to marry into many of the blue blooded families of the English ton, a humble farm hand is quite below her expectations as well.  And when Lili's foster mother, Nancy Moorland begins to realise that many of the men in the vicinity of the Moorland Farm are proving themselves to be completely susceptible to Lili's  charms, she becomes quite concerned and writes to inform Cornelia that it may be time to introduce Lili into London society. And so, like a whirlwind, Cornelia descends upon the Moorland Farm and sweeps Lili off her Hampshire home, where Lili will be taught all the necessary accomplishments and manners in order to prepare for her London comeout.<br />Lili's mind is in a whirl, and quite daunted about her new life. For while she longs for the excitement and the sophisticated entertainment that her new life will bring, she is also dismayed with all the admonishments that Cornelia keeps dropping. Apparently, Lili's easy manners leave much to be desired; also her early upbringing by the nuns has taught her to value actions and manners over rank and position, and that is obviously not done in London society; and then there is the matter of what kind of expectations she is allowed matrimonially speaking! Add to that the rather poisonous insinuations that Cornelia's mother-in-law has been sprouting, that Lili is actually Cornelia's illigetimate daughter, and the servants' scornful behaviour, and Lili begins to quite fervently wish that she was still back at the Moorland Farm! Things certainly don't look up when Lili upbraids the very eligible Viscoutn Halpern for what she considers as callous and arrogant behaviour, thus earning his dislike! And all this before she has even set foot in London!<br />Lili can only hope that things will become better in London. However her hopes are soon dashed -- because she lacks the right kind of family background, she finds few friends, and when Cornelia's mother-in-law starts spewing her poison, Lili soon finds herself the butt of the wrong kind of attentions as well. Except for Viscount Halpern: he has come to London to look for the 'right' kind of wife, and soon finds himself running into Lili quite a bit, and chivalrously rescuing her from a few uncomfortable situations. He finds himself being alternately charmed and exasperated by her. And it isn't too long before he realises that he is quite smitten with her as well. But Lili lacks the right kind of background to be accepted wholeheartedly by his parents. Can Halpern and Lili overcome all this snobbishness in order to find happiness?<br />I found myself being quite moved by poor Lili's situation. Barbara Hazard does quite a good job of depicting Lili's feeling of hopelessness about her situation. And her portrayal of Halpern was spot on as well: she completely captured his arrogance over his rank, and his feelings of exasperation toward Lili, and the moments when he was charmed by her. There were only a couple of things that puzzled me. One was why Cornelia never caught on until too late to the gossip that her mother-in-law was spreading; and the other was why she brought back the character of Alva Potter, a very colourful character last seen in &quot;The Wary Widow&quot;, but under used this character completely. Other than that, &quot;The Unsuitable Miss Martingale&quot; was a very good read -- the heroine was far from 'unsuitable' but was rather immensely suitable and worthy, and it was satisfying to see her find happiness and love after all she's been through. I enjoyed reading this novel immensely.	2001-05-16
1997706:US	52830980	R1NLOSD2FOW8JJ	0451202961	232500805	Broken Promises	Books	2	10	12	N	N	Broken Promises	I share the previous reviewer's opinion about &quot;Broken Promises.&quot; I also couldn't figure out why Matilda couldn't see through Miles's act, or why she forgave him so easily. Her whole behaviour in this novel just didn't ring true for me: here's a woman who ran way with another man rather than marry a man she thought didn't love her enough, and yet 10 tears later, she calmly accepts his bad behaviour because he finally admits he loves her? What about all the emotional anguish he had put her through? I can understand forgiving someone for a wrong done, but to actually contemplate spending one's life with the person who went through such lengths to get back at you, is a bit much. (And what does it say about a man who would go through so much just to revenge himself on a woman who jilted him?) What happens the next time Miles decides that Matilda has wronged him? What then? And why Matilda would carry the torch for an absolute jerk like Miles -- especially as her dead husband seems to have been all a very loving and supportive mate -- also totally mystified me! As well as why romance novelists wait until the last two or three chapters to try and 'save' the otherwise cad-like hero. Don't they realise that by then, for some of us, the hero is just unsalvageable? Especially when there are likable men in the novel? Case in point, in &quot;Broken Promises&quot; there is a completely likable gentleman, who is not only nice and rather dashing, but also seems to be a little bit in love with Matilda, Willoughby Hampton, who also happens to be a good friend of Miles Stephens. But nothing comes of this promising relationship because Hampton realises that there is still the vestiges of an old fire between Matilda and Miles, and he steps away. I kept wishing that Matilda would come to her senses and chose Hampton instead of Miles, but of course my wishes didn't come true. <br />So here's my review: if you like heroes who behave badly and the patient Griselda type of heroine,then &quot;Broke Promises&quot; is the book for you, but if you like heroines with a bit of spunk, and heroes that actually behave like adults, then this is DEFINITELY NOT the romance novel for you.	2001-05-16
2000481:US	52830980	RCGIM0ENARTXC	0553109561	687453166	A Finer End	Books	3	4	6	N	N	not the usual kincaid/james mystery	I rather liked &quot;A Finer End&quot; by Deborah Crombie; however be forewarned this is not the usual Duncan Kincaid/Gemma James murder mystery. Indeed the murder attempt does not take place until almost halfway through the novel! I think that the basic plot of this novel has already been detailed nicely, so I'll stick to what I liked and didn't like about this latest Kincaid/James mystery. I rather enjoyed the entire paranormal angle, and was really interested in what the long dead monk, Edward of Glastonbury, was trying to disclose. And the motley group of characters that were involved with this paranormal investigation were interesting and colourful enough to hold my interest and to pull me into the events that were unfolding before my eyes. I also liked the detailed description of the town, the abbey and the Glastonbury Tor. Deborah Crombie, was I think, entirely successfully in imbuing this novel with the right kind atmospheric feel. Indeed, the first part of this mystery novel held a lot of promise. Strangely enough it was in the second part of the novel, where Duncan and Gemma arrive to help discover who had attacked one of the group, that things became a little unsatifactory. The investigation into this attack seemed to go no where, and then another member of the group is murdered, and again Duncan and Gemma, and the local police seem to be scrambling all over the place, with no coherent plan of action. And when the final denouncement came, I felt enormously cheated, because the motive wasn't even mentioned until the third chapter from the last (except for two tantalising sentences in the middle of the book). I was also a little disconcerted at all the hurdles that Crombie keeps throwing at Duncan and Gemma: they already seem to have an awful lot to deal with, so why did Crombie feel that she should complicate their relationship even more?<br />&quot;A Finer End&quot; is an intriguing novel; however murder mystery wise it does not live up to previous Kincaid/James novels.	2001-05-14
2002118:US	52830980	RDQ9GKP7UADW0	0380978849	701835154	Lord of the Silent	Books	5	11	12	N	N	this novel makes for compulsive and addicting reading!	I think that Elizabeth Peters has outdone herself with this latest Amelia Peabody mystery -- \\"Lord Of The Silent\\" definitely makes for compelling reading, and I for one could not put this novel down! The story flowed smoothly and effortlessly from subplot to subplot, and the air of suspense and tension was steadily sustained. All the characters, old favourites and a couple of new ones, were all well depicted and fleshed out; and best of all, Elizabeth Peters had set up a couple of red herring suspects, so that the mystery addict in me was happily occupied trying to figure out who the real culprit was!<br />\\"The Lord of The Silent\\" takes place during WWI, but not even the chaos of a war can keep the Emersons away from their dig in Egypt. Complications however arise when Ramses is attacked within days of their arrival. His spying activities for the British government (faithfully recounted in \\"He Shall Thunder In the Sky\\") has earned him enemies from a rather rabid and fanatical rebel faction, and it looks as if the remaining members of this faction are now after him. Concerned for his safety, Amelia and Emerson send Ramses and his wife, Nefret, to Luxor: apparently all the chaos that the war has generated has caused gangs of thieves to be even more bold than usual in their pilfering of archaeological finds. Emerson's plan is to have Ramses keep an eye on his interests in Luxor and investigate whatever theft may arise, and so keep him out of harm's way, while Amelia and Emerson look into the matter of who exactly is after Ramses and how to stop these murderous attacks. However this proves not to be as easy as they had hoped when first they themselves are assaulted, and then they uncover a fresh 'corpse' in the burial tomb that they are escavating. Someone is obviously sending a message, but what? Ramses and Nefret are in the meantime hot on the trail of a thief that proves to be ruthless and deadly. Tension mounts as both couples find themselves dealing with ruthless individuals that will stop at nothing to get what they want. <br />Make no mistake about it \\"The Lord Of The Silent\\" makes for addicting and compulsive reading. Elizabeth Peters is a masterful story teller, as with a few well chosen phrases, she managed to successfully transport me to Egypt in the 1910s with it's half excavated digs, with all it's tombs and pyramids, the Sphinx, and Cairo with its very European hotels and its dark and labyrinth like alley ways -- all these unfolded in my mind like an old movie. It was wonderful to see Amelia and Emerson still happily and vigorously doing what they loved best; and it was satisfying to read of Ramses and Nefret's new found happiness in each other; and it made for amusing reading to see Sennia, the little girl that the Emersons adopted in \\"He Shall Thunder In The Sky\\" consciously molding herself after her idol, Ramses. I also developed quite soft spot for the journalist, Margaret Minton., and I sincerely hope that she will figure in further Amelia Peabody mysteries.<br />This latest Amelia Peabody mystery is an exciting addition to a really wonderful series that keeps getting better and better, and I think that this latest adventure/novel deserves a lot more than a 5 star rating. I only wish that there was some way in which I could register this!	2001-05-12
2002858:US	52830980	R1YCMRSCD70NB7	0821769936	57448662	The Lady's Proposal	Books	2	3	4	N	N	a wonderful heroine who deserves better than this!	Lady Clarissa Pomeroy is an independent and intelligent young woman who has been running a couple of halfway houses for unwed mothers without her grandfather's consent or approval for a good many years. Her grandfather's will however has seriously jeopardized all her hard work. Seeking to control her from the grave, in a manner he never was able to in life, her grandfather has decreed that she must be married within 14 months of his death or else lose all his wealth. Backed into a corner, Lady Clarissa turns to the only honourable man she knows to get her out of this jam, Simon Sinclair, the Earl of Sheridan. Lady Clarissa has been in love with Simon these past few years, and since she must marry, she'd rather marry a man she's in love with and who has a reputation of being honourable. And so she proposes marriage to him, and promises to be a good and honourable wife but asks that she have complete control of a small portion of her own inheritance to with as she wishes, and that Simon promise never to question or investigate how she spends her money. For while Simon has many honourable qualities, he has a somewhat old fashioned outlook about women -- seeing them as not very intelligent or capable beings, in need of strict guidance, and like her grandfather, she fears that he will thoroughly disapprove of her work. Simon agrees to Clarissa's proposal, and they marry. And their marriage seems to be working out, sexually at least. Ideals and ideas wise, they seem to be poles apart. And then a crisis occurs at one of the halfway houses and Clarissa leaves to take care of the matter, arousing Simon's suspicions and curiosity. Of course he breaks his promise to her and follows her. Of course he is appalled at Clarissa's notion of charity, while Clarissa is hurt that he broke his word to her. Can these two heal their marriage and come to a better understanding with each other?<br />A better question is do we even want them to? Simon Sheridan is unfortunately exactly the kind of hero I really to dislike and have no sympathy for. The man is supremely confident that he is always right, and the arrogant manner in which he frequently debated with Clarissa on matters of social reform and politics, and dismissed her concerns made my blood boil. The only question I had was what was this wonderful woman doing with a man like that? Patricia Waddell does rehabilitate Simon in the last chapter, but by then I was rooting for her to run away from him. This novel could probably have been saved if Simon had been rehabilitated halfway through the novel, instead of which he spent much of the book fearing for Clarissa's social survival within Victorian society. I just felt that a wonderful heroine like Clarissa (and I really liked her) deserved someone who would appreciate her more fully and completely, who was more sensitive, honourable and socially aware. Perhaps I'm being totally unrealistic, and perhaps I'm alone in wanting for my romance heroes to be at least a little bit worthy of these wonderful heroines, but I really felt that Clarissa was totally wasted on Simon Sheridan.<br />&quot;A Lady's Proposal&quot; gives the reader some idea of the social conditions in mid 19th century England, and is informative from a socio-political point-of-view, but romance wise I just felt cheated.	2001-05-11
2002908:US	52830980	R1MTKBQH2FA16Q	082176814X	330027147	A Bride For Lord Brasleigh (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	predictable plot but enjoyable reading anyway nonetheless	&quot;A Bride For Lord Brasleigh&quot; is the final chapter in the Rose for Three Rakes trilogy, and while the principal characters are a variation of the couples found in the other two books, the plot of this romance novel is different enough to make this book interesting and enjoyable.<br />After years of having ignored his young ward, Bella Lowe, Phillip Marrow, Lord Brasleigh, has decided to end his troublesome guardianship by arranging a suitable marriage for her with a French emigre. Bella is of course is incensed. She's put up with Brasleigh's neglect and living in isolation on his estate, but she's not going to sit tamely while Brasleigh marries her off to a complete stranger just so he can be rid off her. Bella decides to run away -- she has no clear idea of where she can go or what she can do, she only knows that she has to put some safe distance between herself and Brasleigh in order to avoid this arranged marriage. She passes herself off as a war widow and is hired to act as a companion by a kindly old woman she meets while on the road. Bella thinks that her troubles are over for the time being at least, not realsing that Brasleigh is hot on her trail.<br />In Brasleigh's eyes, Bella has been nothing but a thorn in his side. True, he has not actually had to deal with her, but letters from his butler, and the number of governesses that Bella has gone through, have given him some idea of what a hellion Bella actually is. And he is both angry and frustrated when he learns that she has run away. Fortuitously, Brasleigh discovers that Bella is at his friend's (Pudding) aunt's home. And when both men turn up at the estate, Brasleigh pretends not to realise who Bella actually is; for Brasleigh has a PLAN: he will pretend to attempt to seduce the innocent Bella, and so send her running home to his estate for safety, where she will marry the Frenchman gratefully. And they say women are totty headed!!<br />The plan however works in ways that Brasleigh did not expect it to, for Bella proves to be a lot more alluring and intelligent and gracious than reports of her had led him to believe. Brasleigh finds her to be so irresistible, that he has a hard time remembering his plan. As for Bella, Brasleigh is proving to be an enigma. Just who is this overly irritating man that seems so sure of his charms and his effect on her? For while Brasleigh's arrogance frequently sets her back up, he also proves to be a kind, thoughtful and intelligent man. And Bella begins to fear that she is falling for the very man who has caused her so much unhappiness and pain. Complications however arise when the French emigre turns up to court Bella. For now Brasleigh must decide if he will continue with his plan to marry Bella off, or if he will confess to wanting her for himself.<br />Plot-wise we know how things will turn out. What makes this novel interesting is the manner in which Debbie Raliegh has textured the principal characters in this novel. Brasleigh seems hateful at first, but he also shows that he has a gracious and chivalrous side. Factor in his troubled family life, and one is almost tempted to forgive him anything! Bella also sounds awful when we first see her through Brasleigh's prejudiced eyes in the oepning chapters, but once we are introduced to her, one cannot help but root for her to teach Brasleigh a much needed lesson or two! In spite of it's predictable plot, &quot;Lord Brasleigh's Bride&quot; was an enjoyable read.	2001-05-11
2005604:US	52830980	RAMDVVC3CHIOE	0743418832	221586511	A Proper Affair (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	29	29	N	N	A Proper Affair	Cassandra Abbot and Lord Byrce Keene are a study in opposites. Cassandra has always been the obedient daughter, and the very epitome of all that's proper and correct; while Byrce has always done as he pleased and is a bit of a rake. And when thet first meet, both are very young and supremely confident that their take on life and conduct is the correct one. Years later, bitter experience has taught both Cassandra and Bryce a thing or two about life. For Cassandra, the very proper young lady that she was, obediently married the aging duke of her parents choice, and led a life of quiet hell at his hands; while Bryce defied his parents and married the very wild and exciting Lady Francesca Milford, who made Bryce a laughingstock in the ton's eyes with her numerous affairs. <br />The welcome death of both their respective spouses however has not meant that life's difficulties are over for either Byrce or Cassandra. In Cassandra's case poverty and her father's enormous gambling debts are ugly realities that loom over her head constantly; while Byrce is literally at his wit's end trying to curb his rambunctious and hostile niece's behaviour. On hearing that the widowed Cassandra is back in town, and knowing of her reputation for proper behaviour, Byrce hits upon the notion of marrying Cassandra in order to provide his niece, Elaina, with the right kind of role model. And so Byrce makes a contract with Cassandra: he will rescue her family if she will marry him and take care of Elaina. Experience however has been a hard teacher, and Cassandra agrees to marry Byrce on condition that he agrees to 56 provisions from her, which deals with everything from Cassandra being allowed to buy at least 3 new dresses per month, to Byrce's acceptance of her cat, Poco, and to their marriage not being consummated for at least 6 months while they get to know each other. Of course Bryce doesn't read all the 56 provisions, and of course he is outraged when Cassandra refuses to allow him his marital rights. What unfolds then is a rather amusing battle of wits on both Cassandra and Byrce's part, as Byrce tries to seduce Cassandra and she tries to stay one step ahead of him. Who will win this batle of wits?<br />&quot;A Proper Affair&quot; was a rather amusing read in parts. Both Cassandra and Bryce are obviously well matched in both character and temperament. But what I liked most about this novel was that Victoria Malvey didn't paint Byrce as overwhelmingly arrogant or Cassandra as incredibly rigid. We see things mostly through Cassandra's point of view -- what she suffered at her first husband's hands, and her fears of ever giving any man too much power over her -- and we empathise; but Malvey also lets us in on Bryce's fears as well -- his fear of not being able to trust anyone esp after what he went through with Francesca. Of course he does behave arrogantly, but he also climbs down from his arrogant stance esp when he realises that he is wrong. I cannot remember the last time I read a regency romance hero admit that he was wrong! However I thought that the subplots that dealt with Elaina's headstrong behaviour, and Bryce's enemies that try to destroy the marriage were a bit weak, and could have done with a bit more exposition. Other than that &quot;A Proper Affair&quot; is quite an enjoyable read.	2001-05-09
2007504:US	52830980	R3RTYM585ILA5R	082176862X	994250641	A Highland Folly (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	not my kind of romance hero	I really found it difficult to lose myself in &quot;A Highland Folly.&quot; And that is because I personally did not take to the hero of the piece, Lucais MacFarlane, and not because this novel is badly written or conceived. It's just a private bias of mine to dislike manipulative men, and I found Lucais's behaviour to be just too machinating to take.<br />After having spent nearly her entire life traveling around the world with her mother and various stepfathers, Lady Anice Kinloch is happy to have a place to call home, for she has inherited the leadership of the clan Kinloch, and the family castle, Ardkinloch. So what if her new found family is driving her nuts with their never ending demands for attention? Trouble however comes in the shape of Lucais MacFarlane, an engineer who has been commissioned to build a bridge across the river Abhainn an Urusig, much to the anger of the people of Kinloch, who believe that such a project would destroy the beauty of the countryside. Lady Anice would like to be able to hear from everyone before she decides whether or not to support the building of the bridge, but her attraction to Lucais is only too evident to everyone in the valley. And soon even her own family does not trust her to be impartial in the matter. <br />Lucais MacFarlane is determined to be build the bridge no matter the cost. Because he grew up in the region -- he is the second son of Lord Chesterton, but he is keeping that bit of information under wraps -- and because the Kinlochs and the Chestertons have been feuding since the English Civil War, he was prepared for all kinds of crazed opposition from the Kinlochs. What he did not expect was to feel so strongly drawn to Lady Anice. She is unlike any woman he has ever met, but bitter experience has made Lucais wary of trusting any woman completely; and Anice's need to put her family obligations before all else grates on his nerves, esp as he has turned his back on his own family obligations. And then someone starts sabotaging the project. Lucais suspects Anice's family, but Anice demands more tangible proof before she will act. Their relationship seems doomed unless Anice and Lucais can find a way to trust each other. But will they?<br />Part of the problem with this novel was in how it unfolded. The reader is able to glean from the bits of information strewn all over the book why Lucais feels so bitterly towards women who are after a titled husband, and why he has decided to keep his real identity secret. But the entire picture only comes to light halfway through the book, and by that time, I for one had lost interest, for Lucais MacFarlane had already crystallized as a rather mercurial and manipulative individual. He frequently blows hot and cold towards Anice because of all his hangups (distrust of women, anger at her need to put her family first, etc) and yet he keeps putting off being honest with her about his own past and secrets! And then there is the manner in which he keeps compromising Anice, thus causing her to loose the confidence of her family and the people of the valley. This seemed to me to be a rather foolish thing for Lucais to do esp since Anice was his best hope for getting the people of the valley to accept his bridge. It seemed as if what he really wanted was for Anice to choose him over her family, rather than for Anice to help him garner support for his project. And then there was the whole feud between the Chestertons and the Kinlochs. This is referred to again and again but is only resolved as an afterthought in the epilogue. Which of course brings us to the falling out between Lucais and his father, and the rather haphazard resolution of that subplot. Does Lucais finally accept his family obligations or not?<br />The characters in this novel are all very well portrayed, from the rather ruthless Lucais to Anice's Kinloch kin. And the story itself is promising; I just found myself resenting Lucais MacFarlane for the manner in which he used Anice -- just because he was not mature enough to handle his heritage and responsibilities was no reason for him to keep compromising Anice's position with her own kin. No doubt Lucais's kin were probably every bit as trying as Anice's, but she found a way to deal with her family and accept her familial responsibilities. Lucais MacFarlane desperately needed to grow up, in my view; and Jo Ann Ferguson tries to add some maturity to her hero in the epilogue, but it was a little too late for me by then.	2001-05-07
2013032:US	52830980	R2QKBCFOSRQ73B	0345433971	758485853	Midnight Bride	Books	3	10	11	N	N	the novel's heroine makes this book	I think that the reason I was not completely blown away by &quot;Midnight Bride&quot; is because I didn't exactly take to this novel's hero, Valentine St. Leger. Because other than my feelings of reservations towards this character, this novel was a rather good read. Kate Fitzleger has been in love with Valentine from the very first moment she met him, however the St. Leger bridefinder has decreed that Valentine can never marry. Being a young woman of strong convictions, and having no time for family superstition, she decides to employ magic to win her love. At the same time, Rafe Mortmain, the St. Leger family enemy, is seeking out Valentine for some long overdue revenge. Both Mortmain and Kate strike at the same time, and Valentine is changed: no longer is he the quiet, restrained and compassionate doctor, now he is much more of a short tempered caveman. Kate is thrilled for now Valentine cannot seem to keep his hands off her, but she is also filled with misgivings for her beloved seems to also be in a lot of pain. Should she try to restore Valentine to his former self even if it means losing him? And that is the central motif of this novel: the nature of selfless love and sacrifice. Kate learns this the hard way, and Rafe Mortmain also learns this lesson, though not with as much pain and anguish as Kate. <br />I had a few reservations about this novel -- firstly, why was no one keeping more of an eye on Kate? Here was a young woman living in a village surrounded by her adopted family, and on one in the St. Leger family seemed to give a damn that she was trysting with Valentine until it was too late! Not very believable in 19th century England.  Secondly, I found it very hard to enjoy Valentine's caveman-like mentality towards Kate. I know that he was basically under a spell, and that (for some reason) such behaviour is very popular and accepted in the romance world, but goodness if a man behaved that way in real life, wouldn't we be advising Kate to take for thehills? And thirdly, the switch of auras takes place between Valentine and Mortmain -- I found myself wishing that Susan Carroll had gone into this plot device a little more, for while I could deduce that Valentine's murderous rages was somehow linked to the darkness that he absorbed from Rafe, and that Rafe's new found compassion was something he got in exchange from Valentine, I could have done with a little more detail about how Valentine through his flashes of pain and rage came to have a little more understanding for Rafe.<br />What I really enjoyed in this novel however was the relationship that developed between Kate and Prospero, the St. Leger ghost. It was amusing and touching as you could see the seeds of a real friendship forming between these two. Another thing I liked about this novel was the reforming of Rafe Mortmain, sketchy though it was. I wished that had been a little more of this subplot. &quot;The Midnight Bride&quot; is a goodish read mostly because of its energetic heroine, Kate Fitzleger. Susan Carroll really developed this character fully and I for one was glad for this.of its energetic heroine, Kate Fitzleger. Susan Carroll really developed this character fully and I for one was glad for this.	2001-05-02
2013825:US	52830980	R3L80R59TNNVDY	0821768131	255004855	The Daring Miss Lassiter: A Zebra Regency Romance	Books	4	3	3	N	N	more than just a romance	Some novels defy snap labeling, and &quot;The Daring Miss Lassiter&quot; by Marcy Stewart is one of those books. I'm going to describe this novel as a historical novel because while there is romance, this book offers alot more as well.<br />The Lassiters have fallen on hard times indeed. A crippling illness has forced Mr. Lassiter to retire from his post as vicar, and for him and his two daughters, Audrey and Rebecca, to retire to Saint Duxbury where they live a life of almost abject poverty, growing and selling vegetables at the local market. Their only hope is for Audrey to marry, but in spite of Audrey's beauty, the offers of marriage are few as practically no one wants to take on the crippled Mr. Lassiter and the disfigured Rebecca as well as the  penniless Audrey. So that when the mysterious Mr. Turner offers Audrey 10, 000 pounds to impersonate a missing heiress, Audrey is forced to consider this proposition, much as she loathe to do so. However her circumstances are dire,  and so, fearfully and with much misgivings, Audrey presents herself at Far Winds as the missing Roxanne Hastings.<br />Roxanne Hastings, Mr. Turner explains, has been missing from her home these past 7 years; she was 10 years old when she disappeared, and her mother, the rich and powerful Marianne Hastings has never given up hope of finding her daughter alive. And now that she is dying, Mr. Turner wishes to make her last days easier by presenting her with the missing Roxanne. But when Audrey arrives at Far Winds, she finds that things are alot more complicated and difficult than Mr. Turner made them out to be. To begin with there are Roxanne's cousins: the heir to the Hastings estate and fortune, Lord Harry, who immediately accuses Audrey of being a heartless fraud; and Thorn and Lucy, who grew up with Roxanne and who view Audrey with much suspicion and fear -- not long after Roxanne disappearance, Marianne Hastings had drawn up a new will distributing her wealth amongst Harry, Thorn and Lucy  more generously. Roxanne's sudden reappearance certainly would invalidate this new division of riches. And Marianne Hastings herself proves to be other than Audrey expected: far from being frail and near death, Marianne proves to be a commanding and domineering presence. Audrey feels her nerves being drawn taught as she tries to balance her criminal actions with her natural inclination for truthfulness, the hostility she faces from Roxanne's cousins with her growing attraction to Lord Harry, and her growing obssesion to discover what had happened to Roxanne. And then someone starts sending her threatening messages. Could Roxanne's disappearance be linked to the messages she has been receiving? Audrey only knows that suddenly she is friendless and alone at Far Winds, and at the mercy of a dangerous stalker.<br />The way I have described the plot, you'd be correct in thinking that &quot;The Daring Miss Lassiter&quot; reads like a gothic novel. This is only somewhat true, for while the ingredients for a gothic romance are there, this novel nonetheless focuses more on Lord Harry's reluctant attraction for Audrey -- no doubt the reason why this novel was catergorised as a light regency romance! I liked the manner in which Marcy Stewart allowed Lord Harry's and Audrey's romance to develop, with lots of to-ing and fro-ing, as Lord Harry finally works out that life is not all black and white and that his own perception of things were far from accurate. The last few chapters that dealt with the Roxanne disapperance subplot was a little rushed, and I felt that the book could have done with a few extra chapters to resolve this a lot more fully, and so have made the book a five star novel; also except for Audrey and Lord Harry, the other characters in the novel could have done with a little more fleshing out. However this was an enjoyable read, and well worth recommending.	2001-05-02
2016035:US	52830980	R2DBRMOEDEZK72	0312274602	557282295	An Unhallowed Grave: A Wesley Peterson Crime Novel (Wesley Peterson Crime Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Unhallowed Grave	I enjoyed reading &quot;An Unhallowed Grave&quot; very much -- it made for riveting reading, and the plot of this novel was as strong as those of the first two books in the Wesley Peterson/Neil Watson mystery series.<br />Pauline Brent, a doctor's receptionist, is found hanging from a yew tree in the local graveyard. A preliminary examination reveals that she may have been strangled and then strung up onto the tree. Not too far from the crime scene, Neil Watson of the County Archaeological Unit has just uncovered the grave of a woman who was buried at the crossroads (an unhallowed grave) about 5 centuries ago. Local legend has it that the woman was publicly hanged from the very same tree that Pauline Brent was discovered in -- it was believed that she had committed a horrific murder. Could Pauline Brent's murder be linked to a 500 year old lynching? D.S. Peterson wonders as he considers the fact that Pauline's murderer must have known of the tree's reputation. This would then make Pauline's death some kind of execution. What wrong could Pauline have committed to merit such a theatrical end? Peterson must discover all he can about Pauline, but she soon proves to be an enigma -- a woman who was well liked but not fully excepted by the villagers because she was an 'incommer', she also seems to have very few friends and practically no history prior to her arrival at the village. It looks as if Pauline Brent was hiding from something, but what and why? In the meantime, Neil Watson tries to discover more about the young woman who was executed 500 years ago, and of the crime for which she was hanged. Tension mounts as both men home in on the backgrounds of the the two women and of the crimes that they allegedly committed.<br />This novel was truly well crafted: the manner in which Ellis switches seamlessly between the centuries, and the way in which the solution of one mystery points to the solution of the other -- that was brilliant. I was well and truly hooked by &quot;An Unhallowed Grave&quot; and recommend as riveting reading.	2001-04-30
2019002:US	52830980	R3LFP0L6S80UM3	0380977737	986596626	Resort to Murder (Henrie O Mysteries)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	a goodish read	Henrie O is still recovering from her recent bout of pneumonia, so that accompanying her grandchildren, Diana and Neal, to Bermuda for their father's (Lloyd Drake) marriage to the beautiful widow, Connor Bailey, isn't exactly at the top of Henrie O's list of ways to recuperate. However, Emily,  Henrie's daughter and Lloyd's ex-wife, is concerned and worried about how Diana is handling her father's remarriage: Diana is simmering with anger and hostility towards Connor, whom Diana feels is all wrong for her father. And so Emily begs her mother to go along with the children and to keep an eye on Diana. Henrie's initial observations however lead her to note that Diana is not the only one with misgivings about this marriage, Connor's eldest daughter, Marlow, and a close family friend of the Baileys, Steve Jennings, both seem to feel that Lloyd is the wrong kind of husband for Connor. For Connor is a very beautiful and somewhat naive woman who enjoys the innocent attention that her beauty brings, while Lloyd is a rather straightforward but somewhat possessive type who does not enjoy other men flirting with his fiance. The air is positively foggy with tension, as first an unwanted Texan starts paying Connor more attention that Lloyd can deal with, then the ghost of the resort manager's dead husband, who had a history of flirtation with Connor, starts playing practical jokes on Connor! Henrie O is furious at this childish attempt to put a pall on the wedding, and resorts to unmask the 'ghost.' But before she gets too far with the investigation, a waiter who was helping her with her inquiries accidentally falls to his death at the resort. But did he fall or was he pushed, Henrie wonders. Henrie grimly resolves to discover what is afoot at this heavenly resort.<br />I'm a huge Henrietta Collins fan, but I was a little disappointed with &quot;Resort to Murder,&quot; as I felt that it lacked the bite and the crispness that was so evident in &quot;Scandal at Fair Haven&quot; and&quot;Death in Lover's Lane.&quot; &quot;Resort to Murder&quot; is good, but is not quite on par with previous Henrie O mystery novels; this novel just seemed to take a while to take flight. And Henrie O herself was unnaturally reticent in this book and left too many things undone and unsaid. Perhaps it was because she was recovering from an illness and was easily tired, but I found myself missing the old Henrie O who would have tackled her granddaughter and other suspects a little more strenuously than she did in &quot;Resort to Murder.&quot;  However having put my minor quibbling to print, I will only add that this is still a good read -- with well portrayed characters and a good plot that will keep you guessing for about 2/3 of the book.	2001-04-27
2026162:US	52830980	R1J1WFYVYK1Q1O	0821767224	692367885	His Lordship's Swan (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	a warm and engaging read	&quot;His Lordship's Swan&quot; by Martha Kirkland is a wonderfully warm, funny and engaging read that revolves around the 'pretend' betrothal motif. And Lydia Swann, the heroine of this novel is one of the most engaging and charming of heroines that I've ever come across. Martha Kirkland did a wonderful job of portraying Lydia -- thus allowing the reader to fully enter into all of Lydia's feelings and emotions, and making it really easy to identify with and root for her.<br />Lord Evan Trent thought that he'd never have to worry about marrying and setting up a nursery, as he'd already found the ideal heir in his young 13 year old nephew, Jack. Unfortunately, a very bad illness renders Jack deaf, and devastated at his loss of hearing, Jack decides that he no longer wishes to be his uncle's heir, and to retreat from all society. So now Trent must find a wife, although he is loathed to do so. However, remembering the beautiful Swann twins from the previous Bath season, Trent decides to take a short cut and to solve his problem by impulsively writing to their father requesting the hand in marriage of the eldest daughter. What Trent does not know is that there are three Miss Swanns, and it is the eldest Miss Swann, Lydia, that he has inadvertently requested to marry. Trent is appalled at the dilemma he finds himself in. But what can he do? <br />Lord Beecham Swann however is ecstatic at the thought of marrying off at least one of his daughters credibly, and will not allow Lydia to refuse Trent's mistaken proposal. Lydia for her part knows that Trent meant to ask for one of her sisters, and is equally reluctant to marry Trent. For Lydia has been in love these past six years with her cousin by marriage, Sebastian Osbourne, and who just happens to be one of Trent's neighbours. Lydia hits on a plan: she and Trent will pretend to be betrothed, and Lydia will accompany Trent to his country estate for two weeks. Once there, Lydia will do all in her power to fix Sebastian's interest, and thus fulfill the twin tasks of marrying the man of her dreams, and getting Trent of the hook. Trent agrees with her plan but with some reservations. But anything is better than marrying red haired Lydia. What Trent doesn't bargain for is that Lydia with her wit, charm and loving heart would touch his, and make him wish that their sham betrothal was real. Can Trent persuade Lydia to forget Sebastian and take him on instead?<br />The thing about romance novels is that you know even before you read the first page of the book which characters are destined for the 'happily-ever-after' ending on the last page of the novel. The gift of a really good book (and authour) is that, even though you know how it will end, your interest as a reader is sustained, and that you root for the couple to come to their collective senses and find each other. &quot;His Lordship's Swann&quot; does this in spades. It made for such satisfying reading to see Trent and Lydia slowly come to realise that they were meant for each other. &quot;His Lordship's Swann&quot; is a wonderfully engaging and charming read, and truly deserves the five star rating.	2001-04-21
2027508:US	52830980	R36XYXQSI15COK	0451202791	340510650	Miss Westlake's Windfall (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	a rollicking good read	Barbara Metzger has definitely made it onto my list of favourite Regency romance writers. Her novels have all proved to be well written, funny, and peopled with interesting and captivating characters. And with this latest novle,&quot;Miss Westlake's Windfall,&quot; Barbara Metzger has struck gold again with this wonderfuly light hearted and charming romp.<br />After having been rejected yet again by his childhood friend, Ada Westlake, Chas, Viscount Ashmead, proceeds to get blindingly drunk. And whilst in the throes of alcohol, he comes up with the brilliant plan to provide Ada with a dowry. That way, he reasons, Ada will have some form of financial security and will thus be better able to decide her own future. For Ada is burdened with caring for her somewhat eccentric and rather penniless family -- first there is her rapacious and grasping widowed sister-in-law Jane, and Jane's snakelike uncle and nephew; then there is Ada's eccentric older sister, Tess, who is very artistic and is in the middle of composing her grand opus; and then is the fact that her dead elder brother had all but bankrupted the family coffers, and that her other brother has not yet sold out of the army, but has left the care of the family and estate to Ada. Chas would like very much to take all these burdens off Ada's shoulders, but his very stubborn lady love refuses to allow him to do so. Hence the drunken plan to secret a bag of coins in Ada's apple orchard -- a plan which made so much sense at the time but which proves to be more trouble than it is worth!<br />Ada has her own good reasons for refusing Chas: she feels that her very best friend deserves to marry for love and to a beautiful and gracious young lady that would not be so burdened as she is. And so she rejects Chas's latest proposal even though it might damage their friendship. And being a very honest young woman, when she finds the bag of money, instead of using it to ease the family hardship, Ada goes about trying to return themoney, much to Chas's horror. The novel follows Ada as she tries to return the bag of money to it's 'rightful' owners; and Chas trying valiantly to keep one step ahead of her, as he bribes, blackmails and threatens everyone into assuring Ada that the money is rightfully hers.<br />&quot;Miss Westlake's Windfall&quot; is a highly entertaining romp that will definitely bring forth a chuckle or two as you follow Ada trying to return the money and Chas trying to ensure that the money remains with her. It was also satisfying following Ada and Chas slowly come to realise that the warm affection that each has for the other is actually love. &quot;Miss Westlake's Windfall&quot; is a great read, and I recommend that if you buy this novel you keep it as it will definitely make for great rereading as well!	2001-04-20
2031604:US	52830980	RS8QQQJZLQB27	0553801880	894815376	Slightly Shady	Books	3	3	6	N	N	an excellent mystery but romance wise...	&quot;Slightly Shady&quot; by Amanda Quick is quite a good mystery novel -- in fact I was so engrossed with the mystery plot that I skimmed the bits of the novel which dealt with the supposed romantic tension between the principal characters, Lavinia Lake and Tobias March.<br />From the very first moment Lavinia Lake meets Tobias March, sparks fly -- sparks of anger and frustration that is. He completely destroys her antiques shop in Rome, and more or less forces her and her niece, Emeline, to leave Italy for England, because he claims that the two women have somehow innocently gotten themselves mixed up with a ruthless gang of criminals, and are now in danger. And while Lavinia does not entirely believe him, she nonetheless can find no way to gainsay him and so finds herself, much to her chagrin and dismay, bound for England. Once in England however Lavinia soon finds herself on a rather inept blackmailer's list: Holton Felix a gambler has come into the possession of the diary of the valet of the the leader of the criminal gang that had used Lavinia. And being a man who could do with a quick influx of cash, he decides to use the secrets in the diary to blackmail a few people, Lavinia included. Outraged at being blackmailed by Felix, Lavinia decides to confront him. However upon reaching his rooms, she finds him dead, and ...Tobias March. It would seem that Tobias March is also on the hunt for the diary. March decides that they should team up and try to find the diary together. And while Lavinia does not quite trust him, she agrees to work with him. But the duo soon realise that they are not just looking for a diary, but rather are on the trail of a very cunning and deranged homicidal maniac as they start to strip over a trail of corpses...<br />The trouble with &quot;Slightly Shady,&quot; eventhough it is a good mystery novel, is that you don't quite take to the principal characters, much less buy their romance. And I'll admit to being rather surprised by this as ordinarily I would have loved a character like Lavinia Lake. Here's a strong woman who has faced many adversities but who has always managed to come out on top. She's quick tempered, stubborn, and very straight forward, but I also found her to be singularly lacking in charm. As for Tobias March, I think he was supposed to be one of those mysterious, strong and taciturn types, but came across as being a little bit of a cardboard hero instead. In fact it was the secondary characters, Emeline, Anthony (Tobias's young brother-in-law), and the mysterious Jane Dove (one of the blackmail victims) that proved to be more interesting, and left me wishing for more -- I think Emeline's and Anthony's budding romance was a lot more believable and interesting as well!<br />It's a pity that &quot;Slightly Shady&quot; was marketed as a romace novel because it makes a very good mystery novel instead. In fact the ending is one that if it were a mystery novel, have pointed to future investigations by Tobias and Lavinia. So here's the warning: if you are a mystery lover, be in for a treat because romance wise, this novel is not very credible or interesting.	2001-04-17
2035481:US	52830980	R1CZP6N6PD8L8S	0375412557	257610007	Death in Holy Orders (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #11)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	an excellent mystery novel	If you haven't figured out yet why P.D. James is considered the Queen of modern mysteries, her latest Adam Dalglish mystery novel, &quot;Death In Holy Orders, &quot; should definitely clue you in. From the very first chapter where she describes the bleak bit of coast of East Anglia where the small theological college of St. Anselm's is located, to the sands of the beach, to the very last chapter, where she resolves the mystery at hand -- she draws the reader into the little isolated world at St. Ansem's that she has created, leaving us quite enthralled. <br />When Ronald Treves is found smothered beneath a fall of sands, it is assumed that he had an accident. And indeed the result of the inquest is that his death was accidental. However Ronald's father, an arrogant, rich and powerful businessman receives an anonymous note that suggests that Ronald's death was anything but accidental; and he turns up at Scotland Yard, demanding that Dalglish investigate the matter. Since Dalglish is going on leave to East Anglia, and because he has a few nostalgic childhood memories about St. Anselm's, Dalglish sees no harm in visiting the college and asking a few discreet questions.<br />Dalglish's arrival however coincides with the unwanted arrival of Archdeacon Crampton. St. Anselm's however is facing foreclosure. It is not a big college and with only a small intake of students. The Church has decided that it is too expensive to keep open, and question right now is mainly when to close the college. And Archdeacon Crampton has come to St. Anselm's with the intent to see it's closing sooner rather than later. Crampton is an ambitious and rather brusque man who manages to get on everyone's bad side within minutes of his arrival, from Father Sebastian who runs the college, to the lay persons who live and work at the college. And at the college currently are two people whom Crampton has run afoul of: a visiting policeman, Yarwood, and a priest, John Betterton. Years ago Yarwood had been in charge of the Crampton's first wife's death; and he had been of the opinion that Crampton had somehow been involved in this death, but had been prevented from seeing the case to it's close because Crampton had complained of police brutality. While Betterton had served time in prison as a sex offender because of Crampton. Dalglish finds himself in the middle of a college swimming with undercurrents and emotions. And the very first night of Crampton's arrival also sees his murder. Who murdered Crampton? There are a host of suspects and motives, and Dalglish and his team will have much to go through in order to unmask the killer.<br />P.D. James is mistress in the art of storytelling, and this lates novel is a testimony to her artistry. Her writing style is short, succinct and lyrical. The deserted coast, the rickety cliffs ontop of which St. Anselm's is located, the wind and the sea -- James writes in a 'painterly' manner, and all these things come alive under her pen, along with the college and all it's inhabitants. But the thing that I like most about James is the manner in which she depicts all the characters in her books: she shades them in varying degrees of gray, so that no one is truly evil or conversely truly pure. &quot;Death In Holy Orders&quot; is a great read and an excellent novel.	2001-04-13
2037804:US	52830980	R2GPA4QZCVUP7Z	0786708190	830986863	Sweet Poison	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Sweet Posion	&quot;Sweet Poison&quot; has been touted as a homage to the works of Dorothy L. Sayers and Agatha Christie. I think that such statements do this mystery novel a disservice, for David Roberts has come up with a mystery novel with characters that are quite different from the ones found in Sayers' and Christie's works. &quot;Sweet Poison&quot; for example pays alot more attention to the political scene in 1930s Europe than you would ordinarily find in the works of Dorothy L. Sayers or Agatha Christie. Furthermore, while Lord Edward Corinth does bear some superficial resemblance to Lord Peter Wimsey, there are enough differences between the two characters for Lord Edward to stand out on his own as being somewhat unique. As for Verity Browne, she reminded quite a bit of Nell Bray, the sleuthing suffragette created by Gillian Linscott, but here again there were enough differences between the two characters.<br />Its 1935 and Germany under the chancellorship of Adolf Hitler is tentatively flexing it's muscles, enough anyway for quite a few people to fear that another war is in the offing. The Duke of Mersham, having lived through WWI and having lost his older brother to it, is keen to advert this possibility of war. To this end, he has decided to host a dinner party and invite influential people of like mind to it. The list includes a pacifist bishop, a newpaper magnate and a German diplomat who, it is believed, has Hitler's ear. The dinner party however also includes an old friend of Mersham's, General Sir Alistair Craig, who is opposed to any kind of peaceful relationship with the Germans, and Mersham's younger brother, Lord Edward, who has been inveigled by his sister-in-law to play escort to the magnate's very bored, angry and poisonous stepdaughter. Unfortunately Lord Edward meets with an accident while on his way to the dinner party. Fortunately however he is rescued by Verity Browne who is on her way to Mersham Castle in order to write an article about the castle for 'Country Life.' The duo arrive at the castle just as the guests are settling down for port and tea, and just in time to see the General collapse suddenly and violently. Lord Edward suspects that the General has been poisoned, however the Duke and the dinner guests are aghast at the thought of scandal, and with the cooperation of the police, the General's death is hushed up. Imagine everyone's surprise than when a communist newspaper hints that the General was poisoned and by someone at the dinner party. Lord Edward suspects that Verity had something to do with the leak, and goes down to London to confront her. Verity does not deny his charge, but passionately puts forward her case for justice to be done, even if it is for an old warmonger like the General. <br />Both Lord Edward and Verity at this point have rather low opinions of each other -- she thinks that he is just another one of chinless wonders that the upper classes frequently mass produces, and he thinks that she is a manipulative, empty-headed miss. However they are both forced to reconsider their preconceptions of each other, especially when they decide to work together in order to discover who murdered the General.<br />The greatest strength that this novel possesses is the care and attention that David Roberts has put into portraying the social and histroical tone of the 1930s Europe, and of England in particular. The popularity of the peace movement; the confusion that many felt about wanting peace and yet feeling leery about Hitler and the facist movement; Verity's concern about the path that the communist party seems to be embarking on -- all these issues are brillantly depicted, and made for interesting and informative reading. The detecting pair, Lord Edward and Verity, were intelligent and genial enough so that I definitely would read future mysteries in this series. The mystery however was a bit of a let down for me: Verity and Lord Edmund would start out trying to discreetly question suspectsand end being involved in some other matter instead. This is probably more realistic in the sense that amateur detectives seldom get the answers they're looking for, but it can be very frustrating for the reader! However I did enjoy reading &quot;Sweet Poison&quot; even if it did not quite meet my expectations mystery-wise.	2001-04-11
2038539:US	52830980	R16ORHT7X1EJTH	0425179184	923966048	Crime Brulee (Culinary Food Writer)	Books	4	27	32	N	N	a fun read	&quot;Crime Brulee&quot; is more of a culinary travelogue with a search for a missing person attached to it than a 'straight' mystery novel. Nonetheless it is one of the most droll and attention -grabbing books that I've read in quite a while.<br />Now that her children have flown the coop and are attending college, Carolyn Blue has firmly put her days as family cook and housekeeper behind her, especially as she has been fortunate enough to land a contract to write a book of anecdotes about eating in interesting places. And since Carolyn will be be accompanying her her husband to an academic conference in New Orleans, Carolyn decides that her first assignment will be to write about the many culinary delights to be found in that city. Carolyn is also excited as this will be a chance for her to catch up with a few old college friends that she hasn't seen in a while, and with her best friend in particular, Julienne Magnussen. However the reunion does not live up to Carolyn's expectations. To begin with Julienne and her husband, Nils, are on the outs. He suspects her of having an affair, and Julienne is tired of having to justify herself and of his accusations. And at the very first reunion dinner, Julienne and Nils quarrel bitterly, and Julienne leaves the resturant in a huff before Carolyn can stop her. The next morning, Carolyn fully expects to meet up with Julienne but just cannot seem to find her. Nor has anyone else seen her since the night before. Afraid for Julienne's safety, Carolyn goes to the police. But they cannot do anything until Julienne has been missing for more than 48 hours. Frantic and scared, Carolyn tries to find Julienne by herself. Where can Julienne be? And why is no one else, Julienne's husband and her supposed lover for example, interested in finding her? Carlyn eats her way all over New Orleans, meeting all kinds of people, and has all kinds of adventures (falling into the swamp being one of them) in her quest to find her missing friend. Butwill she find her alive or dead?<br />&quot;Crime Brulee&quot; is a really fun read. Nancy Fairbanks's humour is droll, and Carolyn's asides and observations about the city and the people she met, made me chuckle. The last few mystery novels I read were a little sad and dour, so that &quot;Crime Brulee was a welcome relief. This novel is a culinary homage to the city of New Orleans, and I enjoyed the bits of historical information that were peppered all over the novel. &quot;Crime Brulee&quot; is a great read, and I'm eagerly looking forward to reading the next Carolyn Blue culinary mystery.	2001-04-10
2039839:US	52830980	R2YQT594IEI0RG	0312265727	504592554	Dead on Arrival	Books	4	4	5	N	N	a  poignant and compelling read	This is probably one of the most disturbing and poignant of mystery novels that I've read in quite a long time. &quot;Dead On Arrival&quot; deals with the whole issue of illegal immigration -- the horrors that people go through in order to enter another country when they lack the appropriate papers in order to start a new life, and of the people who exploit the situation. This novel pays especial attention to the plight of asylum seekers, in the wake of England's (and Europe in general) tightening of the asylum seekers laws.<br />Having broken up with DCI Michael Thackeray once again, journalist Laura Ackroyd is in London, looking into job options and trying to decide what to do about Thackeray. On her way home one night, she witnesses in horror a gang of skinheads beating up on two African teenagers. One of the teenagers escapes, but the other one dies. Angry and horrified, Laura is further put off by the investigative officer's dismissive attitude of the crime and of her eye witness account of the incident and culprits involved. And when she is offered the opportunity to do an investigative article about the incident and the social and cultural implications of the crime, Laura jumps on it. Menacing 'phone calls to give up her crusade and to go home only fuels her determination to persevere.<br />In the meantime DCI Thackeray still reeling from the breakup is called in to investigate the disappearance of a teenage girl. On the surface of it Safi Haque seems to be the dutiful Muslim daughter, hardworking, intelligent and obedient. Where then could she have disappeared to? Could she have runaway? Her parents claim that she has not, but seem reluctant to provide any useful information. And then an account from a witness points to the possibility that Safi may have been kidnapped. But the Haques are not a wealthy family, and seem to have no enemies. Thackeray cannot help but wonder exactly what is going on within the Haque family even as he begins to fear that the search for Safi may end with the discovery of her dead body.<br />How these two events are connected is what makes this mystery novel such compelling reading. I was able to figure rather early on how these two seemingly different investigations were connected, but even I ws not prepared for the poignancy that the connection would bring. Laura's quest for justice for the dead boy and her outrage at the plight of the asylum seekers resonates through the pages. While Thackeray's quiet anguish at their separation is almost too painful to read. Will Laura and Thackeray finally put all their differences and issues aside and move on together, or will this rift be a permanent one? (Well, I won't go into that as that would be telling, as well as why this novel is really so agonizing.)<br />&quot;Dead On Arrival&quot; is a very sad and touching novel, but one that is well worth reading.	2001-04-09
2041118:US	52830980	RBY3LQ4F5Z12D	0821770160	180417169	The Mystery Kiss (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	a beautiful love story	&quot;The Mystery Kiss&quot; is a rather beautiful story of love that blossoms between a widow that has led a rather hard and difficult life and the dashing earl that comes to her aid. Neither Fleur Marston nor Atticus Charles Howard fit the mold of the conventional hero and heroine -- both are a little older to begin with, and neither Fleur nor Atticus are incredibly good looking, but this (in my opinion) only added to the charm of the novel. It's such a relief to read about ordinary looking characters and to find that they have been portrayed as brave, gracious and dashing -- usually the heroes and heroines are almost always described as handsome and beautiful, and after a few novels like that, you come away with the feeling that everyone in England at that time must have been incredibly good-looking, which of course makes you wonder about all those portraits by Gainsborough and Lawrence!<br />Fluer, Lady Marston, had been married off by her father, a shipbuilder, to Lord Marston who was not only penniless, but who was also a very cruel and brutal man. Life with Marston was hellish, and if that was not bad enough, Fleur also suffered greatly at the hands of the rather snobby English ton who had condemnend her as an 'encroaching mushroom' and who used every opportunity to snub her soundly. The only bright sparks in Fleur's life are her two sepchildren, Malcolm and Althea, whom she loves dearly, and who return her care and affection. And now that Marston is dead, and Althea is of an age to make her debut, Fleur has summoned the courage to brave society again and to bring Althea to London for her comeout. <br />Atticus Charles Howard, the Earl of Hartshire, is a widower with a rather mysterious and dashing past, also known as the Spectre, he has in the past tangled with spies and radicals seeking to destroy the Crown. Atticus first meets Fleur on the road to London -- she is suffering from a horrendous case of carriage sickness. He is able to help her. However something about Fleur reminds him of his dead wife, and when he reaches London, he asks about her, and learns of her cruel treatment at the ton's hands. Atticus decides to help her, openly and secretly. For all the ton to see, Atticus is at Fleur's side at social functions, while he secretly sends her notes of advise under the guise of 'Montague' and whispers bits of encouragement from behind potted plants and bookshelves. Atticus's campaign works and Fleur is soon accepted by the ton and even has her own little court of admirers. But how Fleur wishes that Atticus and her mysterious 'Montague' were part of her court, for her heart is quite torn between the two. But who is Montague? And if push came to shove, would she be able to choose between them? As for Atticus, while he has fallen in love with Fleur, he cannot bring himself to court her, so sure is he that she will reject such a great lump like him! Will Atticus be able to overcome his misgivings and court Fleur before she accepts someone else's proposal of marriage?<br />There are so many wonderful things to rave about in this novel -- the manner in which Fleur blossoms from shy and demure to someone with a lot more confidence, to Atticus who doesn't seem to realise that his kindness and general good humour completely transcends his lack of good looks. As is usual with most of Judith Lansdowne's novels, there are a few other subplots. And this is where things become a little out of sync. The romance subplots with the secondary characters were a little rushed. And there were two characters, Celeste, a mysterious dressmaker, and Davis, Fleur's abigail, whom I wished had figured more prominantly in this novel as I found them to be really interesting characters - but that is just my own private bias. As for the subplot involving a murder and intrigue -- I'm an avid mystery reader, and so was quite disappointed that this subplot was somewhat marginalised. But such was the satisfaction that I gleaned from reading about Fleur and Atticus, that all my quibblings seem almost insignificant! This is a truly beautiful love story, and one that I will definitely read and reread again!	2001-04-08
2042214:US	52830980	R36K4GDC2ZU9V3	0312269420	334779969	The Riddle of the Shipwrecked Spinster	Books	5	19	21	N	N	a good swashbuckling novel	No one can write a swashbuckling historical novel complete with treasonous plots and daring adventure, power mad villains, and honourable men and women caught in the middle of all these intrigues, quite like Patricia Veryan. And &quot;The Riddle of The Shipwrecked Spinster&quot; lives up to Veryan's reputation for brilliantly writing such dos making this novel a highly entertaining and enjoyable read. (The novel also sees the resurfacing of several characters form the Jewelled Men and the Golden series -- the Jewelled Men was a series dealing with a few aristrocats hungry for power and with plans to do away with the royal family; while the Golden series deals with the Jocobite Rebellion and its sympathizers. Some events from these book are alluded to with very little explaination.)<br />All of London is agog when the shrewish Mrs. Regina Stansbury successfully traps the very fashionable, rich and dashing Gervaise Valerian into proposing marriage to her plain and plump daughter, Cordelia. But they are even more astonished when within days of the 'engagement' it is learnt that Cordelia has left England to in order to seek her father's consent for her marriage to Valerian. And then news breaks that the ship she was on foundered off the Cape of Good Hope. Everyone expects that poor Cordelia died along with everyone else. However a year later she resurfaces, sound of limb and mind, but with a slightly tarnished reputation for having spent a whole year alone on an island with 'cannibals'. Everyone expects Valerian to do the right thing and marry Cordelia anyway, but Valerian refuses. In order to restore the family name, Valerian's uncle, General Lord Nugent Cranford, blackmails his other nephew, Piers Crandford, to marry Cordelia instead. Piers needs his uncle's consent in order to apply for a bank loan so that he can buy his twin brother an estate as a wedding present. Angry and reluctant but seeing no way out of this dilemma, Piers presents himself at the Stansbury house in order to offer for Cordelia. Instead of finding the shy mouse everyone has led him to believe Cordelia is, Piers instead meets a very haughty young woman, who laughs at his propsal. Piers is in a bind: Cordelia won't have him, but his uncle will not allow him to withdraw to his estate, ordering him to court Cordelia until she says 'yes.' On top of it all not only is his estate suddenly plagued by a series of inexplicable disasters that could spell foreclosure; but a wily enquiry agent on the lookout for Jacobite sympathizers seems to be on the hunt for an old family friend! Piers soon finds himself being stretched thin trying to woo, protect and defend.<br />I'm quite an ardent Patricia Veryan fan, and while I don't always agree with all her plot resolutions, I have always enjoyed reading her novels. Her heroes and heroines are a cut above what you will find in most historical romance novels: they are almost always incredibly brave, honourable and loyal -- soldiering on alone, even when their friends and family turn their collective backs on them. The plotline of nearly all her novels follow a similar pattern, so that if you are an avid reader of Veryan's works, you will probably be able to figure out who the villain is in the novels, but this is not too important a detraction. Indeed Patricia Veryan's novels are a wonderful mix of adventure, romance and humour, and makes for great reading.	2001-04-07
2044557:US	52830980	R32YNUI5NZ1PS7	0312269471	58841259	Thread of Evidence	Books	5	7	7	N	N	a very well crafted novel	This is my first DCI Paget mystery novel, and I will definitely be backtracking to read previous books in this series. What a tremendous find! Frank Smith has done an excellent job of mixing the exciting aspects of police work with the more back breaking and mundane ones, so that you really get a more complete picture of what police detecting is. <br />There are three subplots in &quot;Threads of Evidence.&quot; This would have been unwieldily in someone else's hands, Frank Smith however capably fuses these subplots together so that they juxtapose seamlessly. At the heart of this mystery is the Bolen family, with all their secrets and private vendettas. Jim Bolen, a building contractor, is determined to bid for a particular job that could bankrupt him and his family, and all because he wants to destroy a rival contractor, Keith Lambert. His brother, Harry, and Jim's wife, Laura, have both tried to talk him out of this chancy act, but Jim stubbornly refuses to budge much to Harry's anger. The novel then cuts to the other subplot involving a very vulnerable teenage prostitute, Vicki Lane. A man hires her off the street to go to the hotel room that Jim Bolen is in. Vicki goes to the hotel room and is knocked out. And when she comes to, she finds that she has been badly beaten up, and that there is the dead body of a man next to her. Vicki has no idea what took place in the room, but afraid that she'll be accused of the murder, she takes to her heels. <br />And that's when Paget and his team come into the picture: to investigate the murder of Jim Bolen. The room looks as if a tornado hit it: obviously some kind of altercation took place -- there's blood everywhere, and some articles of woman's clothing are found around the bed. Could this be a case of a prostitute killing a violent client? But preliminary forensic evidence as well as interviews with a few witnesses seems to throw some doubt onto this scenario. And this leads to the third subplot -- the private thoughtsof the murderer. Who cannot understand where all his careful planning went wrong, and why the prostitute he especially chose to take the fall has not been arrested. It doesn't take long for both Padget and the murderer to come to the conclusion that this girl must be identified and found, for she alone knows what happened that night in the hotel room. But who will find her first?<br />&quot;Thread of Evidence&quot; pays special care to forensic evidence, more so than most other police procedurals, but not in an overly technical way so that you can't really follow what the detectives are saying, and this adds to the interest quota in  this mystery novel. The mystery unfolds at an orderly pace, and all the characters are very well developed, from DCI Padget, to the members of his investigative team and to the members of the Bolen family. But what I found especially brilliant was the manner in which Frank Smith was able to move from one subplot to the other without losing steam or confusing the reader. This is indeed a very well crafted and executed mystery novel.	2001-04-05
2045901:US	52830980	R2K4WK8P28AQXM	0312268726	601888974	Black Lotus (Sano Ichiro Novels)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	a rich and complex mystery novel	The &quot;Black Lotus,&quot; the latest installment in the Sano Ichiro mystery series set in 17th century Japan, is an absolutely brilliant read! This novel is exciting and tautly paced, with almost non-stop action and revelations. I found that I just couldn't put this book down -- I was that eager to get to the resolution of this novel; and while I was able to work out a few of the solutions, there were still a few revelations that managed to astound me.<br />Sano Ichiro, the Most Honourable Investigator of Events, Situations, and People, is enjoying a rare moment of bliss: not only has his relationship with the powerful Chamberlain Yanagisawa taken a turn for the better, but Sano is also enjoying the early days of proud fatherhood. Life seems so wonderful at present and little does Sano suspect that the routine investigation into the case of arson and murder at the Black Lotus temple would so abruptly put an end to this peaceful period.<br />The Black Lotus sect is a rather mysterious one that seems to be have grown in numbers and patrons almost overnight under the leadership of the charismatic Anraku. Early one morning the priests and nuns are rudely awakened by a fire set to one of the cottages on the temple grounds. And when the fire is put out the bodies of a naked man and the burnt bodies of a woman and child are found. Also found near the cottage is a young girl, Haru, almost incoherent with terror. It is soon becomes evident that the cottage was set on fire on purpose. And when Sano arrives to take over the investigation of the arson, he recognises the naked man as Oyama Jushin, the chief police commander of the area. Further investigation also reveals that all three did not die because of the fire, but that they had been murdered. The only person who might be able to shed some light on the matter is Haru. But she is almost inarticulate with terror. Reasoning that a woman may be able to cut through Haru's fear, Sano asks his wife Reiko to try and gently interrogate Haru. Reiko is ecstatic: months of being confined to the house has made her feel dull and uninteresting. And since her insistence in being involved in Sano's previous cases has been a sore point of contention between them, she takes it as a good sign that he is now asking for her help. Unfortunately this case only serves to estrange Sano and Reiko, for while Reiko sees Haru as a victim in need of protection, testimony from the abbess of the Black Lotus temple, and others paint Haru as a liar and troublemaker. It is also intimated that Haru knew Oyama, and that she hated him. Sano is convinced that Haru is guilty, and Reiko is aghast at his quick conclusions. Especially as her investigations intimate that there is something terribly wrong with the Black Lotus sect. Sano however will not listen to Reiko, even when his own investigators start to come across a lot of people who claim that the sect has not only kidnapped their loved ones, but have also engaged in a series of brutal acts of intimidation. Realising that Haru has no one in her corner, Reiko is determined to prove her innocent, eventhough she fears that her marriage may fall apart as a result.<br />The &quot;Black Lotus&quot; is a well crafted mystery novel, with a complex and fascinating plot. Who is right, Reiko or Sano? And what dark secrets does the Black Lotus sect really hold? These are the two forces that move this novel. And Laura Joh Rowland is successful in maintaining this fast paced momentum, and in moving to and fro on the issue of Haru's guilt or innocence. Everytime you think that the issue is going in one particular direction, evidence to the contrary is brought forward, thus really keeping you on your toes sotospeak! This is a really engaing and facinating novel, and is probably worthy of a 6 star rating!	2001-04-03
2046452:US	52830980	R3ALX30KHHAJ4K	0821768042	877581572	The Wedding Charm (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	a satisfying conclusion	&quot;The Wedding Charm&quot; is the final chapter in the Addington trilogy, and it is as enjoyable and enchanting a read as the other two books in the series. This time the focus of the novel is Alexander Addington, Adriana and Amy's older brother. <br />Eventhough the Napoleonic Wars are over, Major Alexander Addington is content to remain in the army for the time being. News from England however soon shakes him from his comfortable niche: for he learns that not only are both his sisters married, and to men of means, but that he has now inherited the family title (Lord Landry), estates in Norfolk (Landry Chase), as well as what's left of his uncle's family. Alexander decides to set out for Norfolk in order to take stock of his inheritance. What he finds is a mare's nest. His uncle seems to have depleted the estate to an alarming degree; and his aunt (Lady Landry) and cousin (Elaina Addington) are hostile and seem to believe the very worst of him. In fact the entire county seems to view Alexander as a penniless adventurer! The only bright spark in the whole mess seems to be Lady Landry's French cousin, Lara Rochelle. Poor and without any other family in England, Lara and her brother Neville, make their home at Landry Chase. Only Lara seems to be willing to give Alexander a chance to prove himself. Lara finds herself first being intrigued by Alexander, and then as she gets to know him better, to value him for his patience, kindness, and quiet strength. But Alexander must marry for money and so any affection she feels for him is sadly misplaced. Besides, Lara is deeply involved in an operation to thwart a Bonapartist plot to rescue Napoleon from St. Helena -- she has no time for romance. <br />Alexander finds himself spending more time thinking more of Lara than of Landry Chase. But this beautiful and intelligent woman also seems to be leading a rather secretive night life. Has Lara thrown in her lot with the smugglers? Alexander is determined to find out and to keepLara from harm, even as he resolves to make this enchanting Frenchwoman his wife. But can he convince her that her future lies with him?<br />This novel made for some highly enjoyable light reading. Kudos to Lynn Collum to coming up with three very different but incredibly enjoyable plot-lines: &quot;The Christmas Charm&quot; was a bit of a 'on-the-road' adventure, while &quot;The Valentine Charm&quot; had a mystery subplot attached to the romance, while &quot;The Wedding Charm&quot; was a bit of an adventure in the country, replete with smugglers and secret plotters. As with the previous novels, all the characters in &quot;The Wedding Charm&quot; were well developed; I especially liked the fact that Lynn Collum has created two principal female characters, Lara and Elaina, that were slightly more adventurous and out going than usual without allowing them to seem irresponsible and foolish. And I liked the fact that Lara and Alexander were well matched in character: both have a high sense of duty and loyalty. Definitely &quot;The Wedding Charm&quot; brings the Addington trilogy to a close on a very high note.	2001-04-03
2046589:US	52830980	R2MNPKOFXLR5R7	0312269838	740603513	Little Knell	Books	4	13	13	N	N	an engaing read with loads of dry humour	The Chief Inspector C. D. Sloan (Seedy to his friends) books are probably some of the cleverest police procedural British mysteries around. Written with minimal violence, this is a very well written series that revolves around the very dry and droll exchanges between Sloan (a very precise and methodical man) and the many uniquely eccentric people he frequently works with -- from his long winded and quotation loving boss, Superintendent Leeyes to his very young and rather dim car-mad underling, Detective Constable Crosby. This latest Sloan mystery involves a missing mummy, a murdered young woman, and drugs.<br />It all starts when the coroner receiving an anonymous tip that a body has been moved within his jurisdiction of East Calleshire, but without his knowledge or consent, and the coroner wants the police to investigate. It turns out that the body concerned is that of a mummy that has been bequeathed to the local Calleshire museum by the now dead Colonel Caversham. Sloan is a little annoyed. He has just received a warning from the customs and excise people to be on the lookout for increased crime since they had just removed about 4 kilos of heroin from circulation, and Sloan would rather spend his time trying to nab the ringleader of this local drug ring than chasing after a mummy. However when the sarcophagus is opened they find the body of a young woman who looks as if she's been dead for less than a week instead of the expected mummy. The curator of the museum is aghast -- where is the  mummy? But for Sloan the questions are very different: who is the murdered woman? And who tipped off the coroner about the body? Sloan will have to sift through much before he can finally arrive at the conclusion of this very perplexing mystery.<br />The great thing about Catherine Aird's Sloan novels is that there are no extraneous characters or plot lines. Everything has a significance, so that if you pay close attention you can actaully solve the mystery along with Sloan. This makes Aird's books perfect brain teasers. This entire series is clever, amusing and entirely engaging. &quot;Little Knell&quot; definitely makes for a very good read.	2001-04-03
2046881:US	52830980	RFSJ9RK08EF73	0451201639	954436502	Lord Harry's Daughter (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	when opposites attract	While &quot;Lord Harry's Daughter&quot; is not a light hearted comedy of manners, it is still a wonderful read. Of a slightly more serious nature, this novel is about the two principal characters, Major Mark Adair and Sophia Featherstonaugh, both products of their rather sad family lives, and of one particular intrigue that takes place in the middle of the Napoleonic Wars.<br />Sophia Featherstonaugh has learnt the hard way what it is to have a feckless and reckless personality in her life. Life with her father, Lord Harry Featherstonaugh, had been quite hellish. The result of which Sophia has learnt to be more controlled and precise in her emotions and actions. This makes her the very opposite of Major Mark Adair. Reacting against his stern and restrictive father, Adair has developed a reputation for being a dashing and fearless officer. And when Sophia and Adair first meet, sparks fly. Sophia sees in Adair shades of her father, while Sophia reminds Adair of his disapproving father. However the war, and Adair's spying activities throw Sophia and Adair together and the two begin to form a friendship, that is until Adair falls under the spell of the beautiful Condessa de Gonsalvo y Coruna. Will this new infatuation of Adair's affect Adair's and Sophia's friendship? <br />Sophia Featherstonaugh made this novel really enjoyable for me. She's intelligent, gracious, talented and brave. In fact there's a chapter where Adair and Sophia engage in a battle of the sexes, and Sophia actually wins the battle! The great thing is that Evelyn Richardson allows for Sophia to win this battle in a way that is credible and makes sense! And while I found Adair to be pretty much the typical male hero, I liked that Richardson allowed for the romance betwen the two to unfold slowly and realistically.<br />&quot;Lord Harry's Daughter&quot; may not be the typical Regency romance novel, but it is a really good read.	2001-04-03
2048289:US	52830980	R36Y90KW96VJRO	0312266693	797076912	To Davy Jones Below (Daisy Dalrymple Mysteries, No. 9)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	a wonderfully engaging and cozy read	&quot;To Davy Jones Below&quot; is the eighth book in the highly enjoyable Daisy Dalrymple mystery series, and it is as entertaining and as engaging as the previous novels in the series. This time around, Daisy's latest adventure takes place abroad the luxury ship, the S.S. Talavera, during her honeymoon.<br />Daisy and her policeman fiance, Detective Chief Inspector Alec Fletcher of Scotland Yard, have barely tied the knot, when Alec is informed that he will be sailing to America as soon as their brief honeymmon is over, in order to advise the Americans on how to organise and clean up their Invesgation Bureau of the Justice Department. Of course Alec will have to take Daisy with him -- it is the very prospect of six weeks without Daisy getting herself involved with any police investigations, that sells the Assisstant Commissionor on the idea of doing without him for a while! It has even been arranged for Daisy to do a series of articles on her trip to America. It all seems a little too good to be true -- a trip to America abroad the S.S. Talavera, accompanied by their good friends Philip and Gloria Petrie, and Gloria's millionaire father, Caleb P. Arbuckle! And that's what it proves to be. The first sign that things will not be smooth sailing is the news that Arbuckle's friend, Jethro Gotobed (another millionaire), has married his chorus-girl girlfriend. Arbuckle had hoped to wean Gotobed of the glorious Wanda's charms by inviting him to America. However Gotobed confounds Arbuckle's good intentions by rushing Wanda off her feet and marrying her. Everyone is appalled with this marriage, and even Daisy's rather proletariat leanings are challenged by Wanda's vulgarity. <br />Daisy and Alec however are firmly resolved to enjoy their extended honeymoon, but their plans suffer a setback as well when a passenger falls overboard, and another passenger, the giddy Lady Brenda, swears that she saw someone push the unfortunate Mr. Denton, into the sea. Upon learning that Alecis a police officer, the harassed ship captain, inveigles him to look into the matter. However Alec is by now suffering from a bout of sea sickness. This leaves Daisy to act as his deputy, and to discreetly interrogate the witnesses. The investigation seems to be going nowhere when another passenger (Mr. Pertwee) falls overboard. This time however Mr. Gotobed cries foul by claiming that Pertwee was shot before he fell overboard. Is there a maniac aboard, bent on throwing unsuspecting passengers into the sea? Or are the two 'accidents' connected? And if so how? Daisy and Alec are determined to get to the bottom of things before another passenger falls into the sea.<br />This entire series makes for highly enjoyable and entertaining light reading. The violence is minimal in the sense that Dunn does not go in for graphic and horrific detail, and her prose style is crisp and witty, ably capturing the spirit of the 1920s. Indeed there was quite a P. G. Woodehouse air about this particular mystery! And Carola Dunn has created a wonderfully engaging and charming investigative heroine in Daisy: it is Daisy's zest and keeness to help others, a tendency that frequently lands her in the middle of Alec's cases, that is the central force of this series and what makes it so compelling and engaging. &quot;To Davy Jones Below&quot; is a wonderfully cozy read, and great fun.	2001-04-01
2051354:US	52830980	R1D6OUXHNRR5LD	038533477X	389036711	The Twylight Tower (Elizabeth I Mysteries, Book 3)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	a novel that  captures the essence of the Elizabethan court	&quot;The Twylight Tower&quot; is more a novel of political intrigue than it is a mystery, and of the three books in this series so far, I think that &quot;The Twylight Tower&quot; is definitely the best. Karen Harper has done a wonderful job of capturing the essence of the Elizabethan court life, with all its intrigues, politics, and jockeying for power behind the scenes. This novel however is not much of a mystery novel, the identity of the murderer is revealed halfway through the book, as is the murderer's motive. So if you are an avid mystery addict, be forewarned: this novel scores high on the political intrigue level -- murder-mystery-wise, this is a rather straight forward read with few surprises.<br />It's May 1560, and a very young and carefree Elizabeth I is conductiong a rather dangerous flirtation with the very married Lord Robert Dudley, much to the dismay of her friends and advisers. But Elizabeth refuses to pay any heed to those who warn her that this infatuation of hers could cause her her crown. Elizabeth's thoughts are firmly focused on Dudley, love, dancing, masques and summer; and she has no time for matters of state, much to the anger and chagrin of William Cecil, her chief adviser. She even shrugs off the feeling that she is being spied upon rather than allow her unease to interfere with her pleasures! And when her favourite lutenist falls to his death, instead of demanding that the accident be fully investigated,   Elizabeth accepts that his death was an accidental one -- so loathe is she to fill her mind with anything but pleasurable thoughts of Robert Dudley!<br />Her loyal servants of the Privy Plot Council however do not accept that the musician's death was accidental, and covertly, they begin to investigate his death. But when an ambitious young courtier is seriously injured during a rehearsal for a masque, thus almost causing the Queen to fall to her death, Elizabeth finally realises that someone is out to get her. Will Elizabeth and herservants succeed in unmasking the culprit before he/she can strike again?<br />Karen Harper has done a marvelous job of sustaining the atmosphere of tension in this novel: will Elizabeth's risky infatuation with Dudley lead to a scandal that could rock the country and her hold on the throne? Who is the secret watcher that seems to be dogging the Queen's very footsteps? And will Elizabeth come to her senses in time to realise that someone is out for her blood, or will more 'accidents' take place? While most of the character is this novel are a bit paper-thin, Harper's portrayal of Elizabeth I is brilliant -- she has successfully captured the many facets of the Queen's personality: capricious, quick tempered, generous, intelligent, suspicious, and vulnerable. Karen Harper also does a wonderful job of portraying the murderer by showing how a life of thwarted dreams and ambitions can affect an uncertain and deranged mind. And even though I imagine that this may not have been the authour's intention, I came away feeling rather sorry for the murderer.<br />&quot;The Twylight Tower&quot; is quite a good novel of political intrigue, and reminded me quite a bit of the novels (of a similar genre) by Jean Plaidly. Indeed, Karen Harper even manages to shed an interesting light to the death of Amy Robsart, Robert Dudley's unfortunate and much neglected wife. A good and interesting read.	2001-03-29
2055451:US	52830980	R3HG86RAHBXRS8	037351137X	557732254	Tallie's Knight	Books	5	8	8	N	N	a very heart warming novel	&quot;Tallie's Knight&quot; reminded me very much of the fairy tales I read when I was a child -- a young woman, poor and ordinary, marries a rich but cold and handsome aristocrat, and through her patience and perseverance succeeds in bringing warmth and love into his bleak life. Indeed, this novel made me smile and feel good, just the way I used to when I finished one of those fairy tales. Anne Gracie, is I think relatively unknown in the US, but she won't be for long! This novel is simply one of the best Regency romance novels I've read in a long time!<br />The Earl of d'Arenville (Magnus) believes that he has everything he needs in life. The product of a very unhappy childhood (his mother was a manipulative and unloving woman), many consider Magnus to be overly arrogant and cold. Even Magnus believes his bad press; that is until he meets his vicar's four year old daughter. Suddenly Magnus finds that his heart is not so closed and cold afterall, and that there is something he wants desperately: children. Unfortunately, this entails finding the right kind of wife. Not for him the beautiful, empty headed debutante that would demand they live in London, and relegate the care of any children they would have to an army of nurses, governesses and tutors! No, Magnus intends for his wife to spend her days looking after and loving their children in the country! With such a plan in mind, Magnus turns to his empty-headed, vain and rather spiteful cousin, Louisa, for help in finding a wife. It is decided that Louisa will host a week long house party at her country estate. Several eligible young ladies will be invited, and Magnus will then make his choice.<br />It turns out to be a case of all good plans going south. Louisa fills the house with exactly the kind of young women Magnus despises. But in Louisa's house resides exactly the type of woman that Magnus is seeking: Thalia Robinson. Tallie is Louisa's poor relation, who acts as stand-in mother to Louisa's three children.Plain and definitely on the shelf, Tallie spends her time loving and caring for the children, and daydreaming of finding true love. Little did she expect that the very reserved Magnus would see through her plainness to notice her loving and warm nature. And when Louisa is informed of Magnus's choice, her anger and spite know no bounds! Maliciously she tries to destroy Tallie. But this course of action backfires on her: with nowhere to go and with no money, Tallie who only ever wanted to marry for love, is forced to accept Magnus's offer for marriage. And Magnus, believing Louisa's lies soon finds himself with a wife who may not be all he hoped she would be. Can Magnus and Tallie make their marriage work in spite of Louisa's malice? And will Tallie succeed in bringing some warmth and love into Magnus's bleak life? <br />This is a wonderful novel about a man who has known no love in his life, and who is deply suspicious of women, and of the warm and loving woman who teaches him to love and be happy. Both Tallie and Magnus are well portrayed and their interactions --from their first meeting, to all their various misunderstandings, and to how they finally learn to deal with each other -- is all very realistically depicted. And that is part of the charm of this novel -- that mix of fairy tale with realism. Louisa's character is pretty much the cliched wicked sister/mother/fairy godmother, but her predictably bad behaviour works very effectively in this case. This is a really warm and soul satisfying novel, and definitely a great read.	2001-03-26
2057427:US	52830980	R1AOA3PL4YSR8I	0373511361	632503082	Mr. Trelawney'S Proposal (Readers Choice)	Books	2	7	7	N	N	not my cup of tea	Novels with plots and characters like the one found in &quot;Mr. Trelawney's Proposal&quot; are, I think, an acquired taste, and not for everyone. Luke Trelawney (our 'hero') is exactly the kind of romance hero that grates -- domineering, dismissive of other/lesser people's views, esp if it is not in concordance with his, and incredibly manipulative. What on earth the incredibly naive heroine of this novel, Rebecca Nash, saw in Trelawney besides his obvious good looks, baffled me completely.<br />The novel opens when Trelawney learns that he has inherited a relative's estate, and repairs there to have a look at his inheritance. There, he finds the very young, beautiful and very much alone in the world heroine of this romance, Rebecca Nash. He mistakes her for his dead relative's mistress, and struck by her beauty, he offers step in as her new protector. And when she angrily rejects his offer and sets him right on her true status, he ups the offer to encompass marriage; and she, for goodness knows what reason, accepts his proposal! Perhaps I'm alone in this, but does this strike anyone else as being incredibly surreal? Why would any woman except such a proposal, esp when it came on the heels of an offer of carte balche? Shouldn't the whole incident have made Rebecca question Trelawney's motives a little bit more than she did? <br />Another factor I found disturbing was the fact that Luke came across as a bit of a sexual bully: he used his kisses and touch to overcome Rebecca's misgivings everytime they had an arguement and difference of opinion! I'm not sure how one can classify such behaviour as 'romantic' -- controlling perhaps, but not romantic. Romance novels, in my opinion, should be about the coming together of minds and hearts; not about one character trying to control and dominate the other. And I really wish that &quot;Mr. Trelawney's Proposal&quot; had been about the former instead of the latter.	2001-03-24
2058306:US	52830980	R1752GLKFMTNT8	0312272960	361865300	The Perfect Daughter: A Nell Bray Mystery #9	Books	5	9	9	N	N	an exciting and enjoyable read	I'm an unabashed feminist, and the Nell Bray mystery series is definitely one of my favourites. Gillian Linscott is absolutely brilliant at mixing politics, a socio-historical commentary of early 20th century England, with a mystery plot. And this latest Nell Bray mystery, &quot;The Perfect Daughter&quot; does not disappoint at all.<br />It's the summer of 1914, and Nell Bray is, as usual, busy fighting for the vote, when she receives news that her niece, Verona North, is missing. Verona, according to her parents, is perfect: young, attractive and intelligent, and dutiful. So that it came as quite a surprise to her parents when Verona decided that she'd like to go to London and enrol at an art school. Fortunately for the Norths, Nell lives in London, and although Verona's father, Benjamin, does not approve of Nell and her suffragette cause, Alexandra (Verona's mother) asks Nell to keep and eye on Verona. Nell is of course a little irritated -- she has enough to do without having to look out for her 'perfect' niece. But then six months later, Verona seems to have vanished. And when Nell goes down to Devon to discuss Verona's disappearance with Alexandra, she stumbles onto Verona hanging in the family boathouse, an apparent suicide. But that is not all: the autopsy finds Verona doped up with opium and two months pregnant. <br />While Nell feels a little guilty for not keeping a more vigilant eye on Verona, she also instinctively finds it hard to believe that Verona did take her own life. Sensing that the solution to all her questions lies in London, Nell sets off to question Verona's friends and acquaintances. Suddenly Nell finds herself being not only watched by Scotland Yard because of her suffragette activities, but by another more shadowy and sinister organisation. What exactly was Verona doing in London? Did she commit suicide or was her murder covered up by some very powerful people? Nell Bray is determined to discover all and bring Verona's killers to justice.<br />This is a really great series that gives you an idea of what the suffragettes went through in order to obtain the vote for women; and Gillian Linscott also does a deft job of painting the political and social changes that were coming to the fore in early 20th century England. And as for her unique creation, Nell Bray, well she might not be to everyone's taste -- she is intelligent, feels she's always in the right, and sees no neccessity to cater to the male ego. But she is also passionate in her beliefs, and a loyal friend. And this makes her, strong beliefs and all, a very likeable character. This novel is well written and tautly paced, and with well developed characters. &quot;The Dutiful Daughter&quot; is an exciting and enjoyable read, and will definitely provide you with a couple of hours of delight.	2001-03-23
2060883:US	52830980	R2FDY0I6WWLPHG	0312261241	491453395	Ashes of the Elements (Hawkenlye Mystery Trilogy)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	an engaging read	If you're looking for a mystery novel that baffles and intrigues you, with breath neck-like action, then &quot;Ashes Of The Elements&quot; is NOT for you. However if you're looking for a well written and captivating historical mystery novel that unfolds in a more leisurely manner, and that gives you a glimpse of life in 12th century England and with fully developed and engaging characters, then this is the book for you.<br />Wealden Forest is a place that is full of dark and mysterious secrets -- it is even whispered that the Forest People still meet there when the moon is full to practise their dark and strange ways! And the good people of Tonridge take great care not to be in the woods once night has fallen. Apparently the local poacher, Hamm Robinson, must not have placed much stock in these rumours, as one fine June morning, Abbess Helewise of Hawkenlye Abbey finds Hamm dead from a spear wound on a path that leads from the forest. The Sheriff of Tonridge, a man of strong convictions and little imagination, immediately blames the Forest People for Hamm's murder. And indeed the fine workmanship of the spear that was used to kill Hamm seems to backup the Sheriff's theory. However Abbess Helewise is not so sanguine. She instinctively senses that there is more to Hamm's murder, and when her good friend Josse d'Acquin pays her a visit upon his return from France, Helewise shares her misgivings about the whole affair with him.<br />Sharing Helewise's doubts, Josse decides to look into the matter and hopefuly without stepping on the Sheriff's toes. However he hasn't gotten very far in his investigations when another poacher is found dead. This time however the Sheriff cannot blame the Forest People for the murder as it becomes obvious that this poacher was killed with a dagger, and in what seems to have been a frenzy of violence. What exactly is going on in the forest, and for what dark reason were both poachers killed? Helewise and Josse team up again to discover exactly what dark secrets the Forest holds before more people are murdered. <br />While this novel is not one of those page-turning chilling historical mystery novels that boast of a murder, mayhem and a fiendishly clever plot, it is not a boring read either. Indeed this novel has a very atmospheric feel to it, esp when the story takes the reader into Wealden Forest. Alys Clare does a brilliant job of evoking the darkness and the mysteriousness of the forest. I also enjoyed the glimpses that Clare gives the reader of the day-to-day life of the nuns and monks at Hawkenlye Abbey; and of the rare and unique friendship that Josse and Helewise share. <br />&quot;Ashes Of The Elements&quot; is not a typical historical mystery novel. While the activities that take place in the forest are indeed dire, there are few red herrings or real twist and turns in the plot -- indeed the mystery unfolds in a very straight forward manner. However this book is very well written and is engaging and captivating in its own way. So if you're looking for something not quite in the Paul Doherty/Edward Marston realm, this novel should satisfy.	2001-03-21
2061398:US	52830980	R19VVLZ40TGESP	0373511353	304417602	The Wolfe's Mate	Books	4	5	5	N	N	a compelling read	The title of this novel, &quot;The Wolfe's Mate,&quot; will give you the mistaken impression that this book is all about Miss Susanna Beverly, the heroine of this Paula Marshall regency romance -- not so. This novel is as much about the mysterious hero, Ben Wolfe, as it is about Susanna, and possesses a few elements of the gothic as well as romance.<br />The novel starts with Susanna being jilted in front of the altar by her erstwhile fiance. Not long after that her stepfather informs her that far from being an heiress, she is in fact penniless and that she has being living on his sufferance. And so Susanna, never one to be a burden on her 'loving' family, looks about for employment, and ends up as a companion to Miss Amelia Western, a singularly unpleasant young debutante, and who has just become engaged to Viscount Darlington. And this is what brings Susanna into Ben Wolfe's sphere.<br />Wolfe has just returned from India a very rich man only to find that the unpleasant rumours about his parents are being kept alive by Viscount Darlington's father, Lord Babbacombe. Angered, he decides to take his revenge on Babbacombe by kidnapping Amelia and marrying her himself. Unfortunately, Wolfe's henchman kidnaps the wrong woman: he kidnaps Susanna! By the time Susanna is able to convince both men that they've made a mistake, it is too late. Several hours have passed, and Susanna fears that her already tarnished repuatation will not be able to withstand another scandal. Feeling guilty, Wolfe inveigles his good friend, Madame la Comtesse de Saulx, to help them. And so Susanna finds herself quiting her job with the Westerns and taking up a new post with Madame, where she also finds herself spending more and more time with the mysterious Wolfe. All kinds of rumours about his background and his ruthlessness abound, but Susanna finds that she is strangely attracted to him, and senses that this feeling of attraction is mutual. Wolfe cannot understand his attraction to Susanna, esp as he finds her too forthright and possessing far too a sharp tongue! And yet he finds himself constantly thinking of her and wanting to help her, so much so that he even looks into her affairs in order to investigate more fully her lose of her father's fortune. But will their blossoming relationship be able to survive Babbacombe's spite, the rumours about his parentage or the charge that his father probably killed his mother?<br />This is a really engrossing gothic-romance novel: where is Wolfe's mother? Was she murdered? And if so by whom? Lord Babbacombe charges that Ben is not really the legitimate heir to the Wolfe name and estate. Could this charge be true? Wolfe himself has very few memories of his early years prior to his mother's death. But this novel is also about the romance that blossoms between two independently minded  people that have known very little love or cherishing in their lives and who find love and solace in each other. &quot;The Wolfe's Mate&quot; is not only a great read, but would definitely also be a great reread at some point.	2001-03-21
2063451:US	52830980	R1WKFDWCHZ6EU4	0451202597	205874368	The Rake's Revenge (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	11	12	N	N	subplots get in the way	Actually I'd give this book two and a half stars if I could, as while the romance between the principal characters is engaging, the subplots involving the minor characters left me with the feeling that that I had somehow missed several key pages somewhere along the way. This book needed some careful editing, and I really wished that Emily Hendrickson's editor had done his/her work a little more carefully!<br />Regina Hawthorne is a rather beautiful young woman, with a respectable dowry and the right kind of family connections. With all this going for her, she should be one of the Season's success stories. Instead of which she is currently the object of a lot of unkind gossip. For a couple of weeks, Lord Torrington has been paying some serious attention to Regina, and everyone in 'society,' Regina included, expected Lord Torrington to propose fairly soon. Instead, Torrington suddenly drops Regina, and rushes off to propose to his first love, Katherine Talbot. Where did Regina go wrong -- that is the question on everyone's mind. All this speculation leads to Regina being labeled &quot;Rejected Regina&quot; and to a well known rake, Lord Wrexham, propositioning Regina. Rather than retreating to the country in defeat though, Regina decides to stay in London and face her detractors. Her stance earns her the admiration of another rake, Lord St. Aubyn. His sister had faced a similar jilting, but she had ran away from London, and now leads a life of seclusion in the country. The beginnings of a scheme comes to St. Aubyn's mind: he will help Regina face her detractors, and hopefully restore her to her proper position in society, if she will in turn help him with his sister. <br />Will St. Aubyn's scheme work? Lord Wrexham for example does not take too kindly to St. Aubyn's interfering with his plans for Regina. And as for Regina, she knows not what to make St. Aubyn or her responses to him: why is she quite frequently ripping at him when he has been so kind? She only knows that St. Aubyn's smile causes a havoc of emotions in her and that she could quite easily succumb to it, and that she should guard herself against any further heartache like falling in love with a man who sees her only as a friend.<br />&quot;The Rake's Revenge&quot; is primarily a good read. The chemistry between Regina and St. Aubyn is palpable and believable. However there are also several subplots/romances involving other characters, and this is where this novel becomes a little unsatisfactory. One romance subplot involves Regina's younger sister, Pamela, and St. Aubyn's younger brother, Thomas. We are told that they've fallen for each other, and in the following chapter they have a falling out, which leaves Pamela ripe to fall for Wrexham. It looked as if the Pamela-Thomas relationship was just a conduit to give Pamela a bruised heart, and so make her vulnerable to Wrexham's machinations. However, I think that the plot would have been stronger without Thomas. Pamela is just young and naive enough to fall for Wrexham without giving her bruised heart as a reason. And then there is the constant harping on why Torrington dropped Regina. Halfway through the book, it looked as Emily Hendrickson had resolved the matter, and in a way I found realistic and refreshing. So I was really surprised when this question resurrected itself again towards the end of the book, and for no good reason!<br />I enjoyed reading about Regina and St. Aubyn, but found all the other subplots very distracting, they just seemed to get in the way. And this is a shame because &quot;The Rake's Revenge&quot; has the potential to be a really good read if only the subplots had lived up to the promise of the main story line.	2001-03-19
2068989:US	52830980	RVIT9RAPMR89R	0312207727	286237145	The Skeleton in the Closet	Books	5	34	34	N	N	a satisfying read	If you're a Marion Chesney fan (M.C. Beaton's other pen name), you will enjoy her latest work, &quot;The Skeleton In The Closet.&quot; The plot of this novel follows closely most of those that she wrote as Marion Chesney -- the downtrodden protagonist comes into an unexpected windfall, rediscovers the selfishness of his/her family and decides to try and live life instead of cowering away from it. The only difference is that her earlier works that had this basic plot premise were usually regency romances and this novel is set in the 20th century. <br />Fellworth Dolphin, who had basically given up all his dreams and ambitions in order to look after his parents, discovers upon his remaining parent's death, that his parents were actually quite well off and that he had sacrificed everything for nothing! Going through his parents' things, Fell discovers almost 50, 000 pounds in a strong box. Where did all this money come from? But before he can even begin to investigate more fully, his aunt threatens to move in with him. In a moment of blind panic Fell claims to be engaged and asks his friend Maggie to give credence to the lie and to move in with him. Maggie herself is living a life of unfulfilling drudgery; secretly in love with Fell, she agrees to help him, not expecting very much to come out of this except perhaps for a few beautiful memories. But that is before Fell and Maggie discover that Fell's father might have been involved in a train robbery. Suddenly Fell and Maggie find their lives full of adventure: Fell's home is burgled and their lives threatened. Could all the money Fell inherited be stolen loot? Fell and Maggie are determined to discover where all this money has come from, no matter the cost.<br />While &quot;The Skeleton In The Closet&quot; does read like a mystery novel, the plot line involving the duo's quest to discover if Fell's father had been part of the train robbery gang is only a subplot. Mostly, this novel is a bittersweet story about two people, Fell and Maggie, who are loners, who have received very little love or respect from their respective families, and who find acceptance, support and ultimately, love in each other. Because they have finally taken control of their lives, both Fell and Maggie blossom. They become more courageous, outgoing and competent. While I did feel some pain for the unrewarding lives that Fell and Maggie had lived hitherto their teaming up with each other, it is I think, difficult to sustain any feelings of pity, because both characters are finally taking control of their lives. I definitely rooted for them to come out on top and for Fell to discover what a gem he had in Maggie. Some readers may not enjoy novels where the main characters are quiet and plain, but I rather like novels that deal with the 'ordinary' people, afterall it can get a little tiring to read about beautiful and talented and witty people all the time. <br />In it's own way, I found &quot;The Skeleton In The Closet&quot; to be a uplifting and heartwarming novel, and worthy of a five star rating.	2001-03-14
2070370:US	52830980	R3GK04CSALGLXS	0451202589	361371206	The Ambitious Baronet (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	a new and superior series	&quot;The Ambitious Baronet&quot; is the first book in a projected series featuring the Barlow sisters and a magical locket. I liked this book, and based on what I've read so far, I'd say that this could be the best series that April Kihlstrom has written to date -- definitely superior to the series based on the Westcott sisters and that of the Langford brothers.<br />The Barlow sisters live in seclusion on their country estate trying valiantly to keep a roof over their heads and rescuing children from abusive situations, while their father leads the high life in London. The book opens with the village healer, Margaret, giving the eldest Barlow sister, Alexandra, a locket that Margaret says belonged to Alex's mother. The locket is supposed to have magical powers: you're supposed to wish for your heart's desire and then open the locket. And when Alex does this, she catches a glimpse of a man she has never seen before and whose eyes haunt her. Little does Alex expect that when she wishes for her heart's desire that her life as well as that of her sisters would go so terribly awry, for the sisters soon receive news that their father has gambled away their home and committed suicide, and that they are now penniless, homless and orphans. Nor does she expect that the man who effected all this upheaval would be the very one she saw in her locket. Can Alex open her heart to a man who seems, on the surface, to be a carbon copy of her father? And what of the children that she and her sisters have rescued and secreted on the estate? Will he demand that she return them to the hell she took them from?<br />Sir Robert Stamford never expected for things to pan the way that they did. He had sought out Lord Henley Barlow because he had a secret mission to carry out: to discover who was kidnapping children in Barlow's neck of the woods. Sir Robert rather hoped to loose enough money so that he could finagle an invitation to Barlow's estate. Instead he now owns it! Of course he now hasthe perfect right to nose about the neighbourhood in search of the kidnappers. What he didn't quite count on was to find himself falling in love with Alex, or that the hunt for kidnappers would lead to the Alex's front door! Now Robert has to think of a way to save his lady from criminal charges and to protect the rescued children as well. But can he get Alex to trust in him implicitly? <br />This is a novel about two scarred souls (Alex and Robert) and how they each learn to trust and open their respective hearts to each other. Both Alex's and Robert's characters are well developed and the blossoming of their relationship is deftly handled. This is not a romance novel with a mystery subplot. You know from the very beginning that Alex is behind the mysterious disappearances of the children. Rather, this is a novel that deals with the healing of two wounded spirits and the love and trust they find in each other. A good read and one that is worth the money spent (in my opinion anyway).	2001-03-13
2070537:US	52830980	R10N9EBYS1297Y	0380811995	926249134	Rules of Attraction (Governess Brides, Book 3)	Books	3	19	20	N	N	not my kind of 'hero'	.... &quot;Rules of Attraction&quot; is an all right read but it is not one of her better efforts either. Actually, I haven't exactly warmed to this entire trilogy (The Governess Brides Series) and that it primarily because of the 'heroes' in all three books. The heroines, Charlotte, Pamela and Hannah were all so spunky and intelligent -- characters that you actually would like to know in real life and have as friends; but the men! They were all so childish and arrogant. I really couldn't see what any of these splendid women saw in any of the 'heroes'. As for &quot;Rules of Attraction,&quot; I didn't wonder at Hannah leaving Dougald at all (Hannah left Dougald nine years ago because she felt unloved and undervalued). His charge that she should have persevered in their marriage and tried harder to talk to him and to make him see her point of view, struck no chord with me. In fact when he finally admits (in the last few chapters of the book) that their marriage probably wouldn't have worked back then because they were both too young and stubborn, all I could do was snort in derision. What saved this book for me was Dougald's three dotty aunts, who are not dotty at all, but merely a bit eccentric and overlooked and (again) undervalued by their male relatives. They are a riot!<br />In general I have enjoyed most of Christina Dodd's novels, and I definitely will read her next one. I just hope that she goes back to writing about the kinds of heroes that made her earlier works so memorable.	2001-03-13
2073327:US	52830980	R7Q0G3M1FXKTK	0688176836	654075233	Unnatural Fire: A Countess Ashby de la Zouche Mystery	Books	5	9	11	N	N	an engaging good read	I really do hope that &quot;Unnatural Fire&quot; by Fidelis Morgan is the first book in a new series featuring Anastasia Ashby de la Zouche and Alpiew. This book is simply brimming with ingeniousness, vivacious energy and a great deal of humour. <br />It's 1699 and William of Orange sits on the thrown of England, much to the disgust of Anastasia Ashby de la Zouch, Baroness Penge, Countess of Clapham and one of Charles II's former mistresses. The Countess is down on her luck -- high living, pilfering servants, and a husband who ran off with much of her money, has all but landed her in a near peniless state. Not one to throw her hands up in despair and do nothing, the Countess has tried her hand at various ventures. The current one being journalism. The Countess works as a stringer for Mr. Cue, ferreting out bits of information about the rich and the titled in society, and selling it as gossip to Mr. Cue. However she is 'between engagements' when she is thrown into Fleet Prison for non payment of a debt. Knowing that only she can get  herself out of this jam, the Countess ferrets about for some juicy tidbit in order to buy her way out of the Fleet. And indeed she gleefully stumbles onto the sensational news that a very rich man about town has secretly wed an employee of a sex shop. Surely Mr. Cue will pay handsomely for this little tidbit! Unfortunately for the Countess, her former maid, Alpiew, is also in the Fleet, and she has also latched on to the same piece of gossip and successfully uses it to buy her way out of the Fleet. <br />Alpiew immediately tries to finagle a contract for work from Mr. Cue. But he will only hire her if she has a permanent address. Realising that she needs the Countess, Alpiew strikes a bargain with the Countess: they will work as partners and Alpiew will use their initial earnings to buy the Countess's way out of the Fleet. And so the most unlikely of partnerships begins.<br />The next day, a mysteriously veiled young woman arrives at theCountess's doorstep. Mr. Cue has recommended them to her as trustworthy agents. The lady wants the Countess and Alpiew to follow her husband, Beau Wilson, and to see what he is up to. She fears that he has a mistress and that he is bankrupting them to fulfill his greedy mistress's rapacious needs. The Countess and Alpiew readily agree to follow Beau about. And their quarry takes them all over London -- through the coffee shops to the halls of academia to the theatre to St. Paul's where it looks as if Beau is finally about to meet his inamorata. However instead of stumbling onto the guilty lovers, the Countess and Alpiew stumble over the dead body of Beau instead! Alpiew successfully takes to her heels, but the Countess is arrested by the watch for the murder. Now Alpiew must somehow unravel what is going on and rescue the Countess before she can be tried and hanged for a crime she did not commit!<br />&quot;Unnatural Fire&quot; is a well written and researched mystery novel, that vividly evokes London in the 17th century -- scenes and chartacters just seem to come alive before your eyes! The novel is tautly and evenly paced, and I found myself unable to put this book down -- I just had to know what Beau was up to and why he was killed. The unlikely pairing of an aging Countess -- still full of vim and vigour, and her former maid, who while not as outrageous as her former employer, is as resourceful and as adventurous -- is not only brilliant but actually works very well, and is the highlight of this novel. Here are two women who have faced much adversity and hardship, but who refuse to give up without a fight. Their tenacity is awe-inspiring. <br />This mystery novel is an engaging and riverting read, and well worth the 5 star rating.	2001-03-11
2073581:US	52830980	R27B6STTBVAC7Y	0446606952	594608098	Royal Bride	Books	2	2	6	N	N	not too bad, but...	Actually I would award this book 2 1/2 stars if it were possible. I believe that others have described the basic plot of the novel rather well, so I'll sick to what I liked and disliked about &quot;The Royal Bride.&quot; I liked the heroine of the piece very much. Charity Beaufort may be 17 years old but she is far more mature and intelligent than the average society miss one usually reads about in regency novels. Which makes her the ideal candidate to be Prince Augustus's bride, rather than her beautiful older sister, who is rather self centered and dim. Prince Augutus is pretty much the standard regency hero, except that he is a little more serious and not that much of a rake, barring his weakness for succumbing to his mistress out of sexual frustration, that is. He had promised Charity that they would wait to consummate the marriage until she was ready, not anticipating that he would find himself growing more and more sexually attracted to her. And he does actually try to honour his promise to wait for Charity instead of trying to seduce her. Many readers may find such behaviour strange and extremely un-heroish, but I give Joan Woolf full marks for providing us with something slightly different! <br />I also liked the pacing of the novel. We get to see Charity and Augustus becoming friends as they bond over horses, books and politics. And this is before Lydia, Charity's sister jilts Augustus thus landing Charity the role of substitue bride. So that when Augustus tells Charity that he likes her better than Lydia, we empathise completely. Where the book really falls apart is in the creation of the villains. I just couldn't take them seriously. They were all, without exception, two dimensional, paper thin, and unintentionally funny -- as in silent movie funny. And how Augustus manages to outwit the chief villain at the end of the novel beggars belief as well. Hurling accusations with very little evidence to support your accusations is not the way to go when your crown is at stake. <br />Romance wise, this is a rather good read. It is in the padding of the basic romance plot that this novel unfortunately, in my view, falls apart.	2001-03-10
2078329:US	52830980	R2U7XJWJT270M7	0821768735	203803805	Athena's Conquest (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	an enjoyable light read	What happens when a rather plain bluestocking, who has no intention of ever marrying, finds herself attracted to a handsome Frenchman she doesn't quite trust? Athena Montgomery is in Bath, acting as companion to her eccentric and reclusive grand aunt, Louisa Montgomery, and chaperonning her beautiful but no very intelligent younger sister, Cassiopeia, when she meets Dominic Solage at a bookshop. Athena doesn't know quite what to make of Dominic. He seems to be an intelligent and interesting man, however he also given to charming everyone he comes into contact with in extravagant terms, and Athena doesn't trust or like men who empty the butterboat on everyone they come into contact with. To make matters worst, Cassiopeia decides to try and make a conquest of Dominic! How is Athena to protect her sister when she is herself attracted to Dominic?<br />Dominic Solage is in Bath on the trail of a pair of con artists, hoping to be able to unmask and effect an arrest. With this rather serious task to undertake the last thing he expected was to find himself attracted to a rather plain and prim bluestocking. But there is something about Athena he finds completely captivating. However any kind of flirtation with Athena is impossible: not only does she seem to completely disapprove of him, but she also happens to be the niece of his superior! He should by rights just forget all about Athena and get on with his job. But this Dominic finds he just cannot do. Can Dominic persuade Athena to overlook her misgivings and to trust him?<br />Catherine Blair does a superb job of portraying both Athena's and Dominic's confusion over their feelings for each other: Athena has decided that there is no room for romance in her life, while Dominic never expected to feel attracted to a woman who does not find him charming at all. And the subplot involving Dominic's search for the confidence tricksters blends nicely into the rather unusual courtship dance that both Dominic and Athena find themselves unconsciously performing. The one criticism I had with this otherwise enjoyable novel was the subplot involving Cassiopeia. Catherine Blair goes a little into the feelings of inadequacy that she feels about being the odd-one-out in a family of intellectuals (and indeed this leads her to commit a rather foolish and desperate act). But I think this subplot could have been blended in a little bit more so that the novel would have had a more complete and balanced feel. The villains of the book are rather easy to figure out, but then this is not a mystery novel so that that in itself is not too important a detraction. <br />&quot;Athena's Conquest&quot; is an agreeable light read, and one that I enjoyed immensely.	2001-03-07
2079348:US	52830980	R2CK5DXR38OTUJ	0312272871	173435029	The Demon Archer: A Medieval Mystery Featuring Hugh Corbett (A Hugh Corbett Medieval Mystery)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	a wonderfully crafted mystery novel	Hugh Corbett, the Keeper of the King's Secret Seal (Edward 1) has miraculously survived the attempt on his life in the &quot;The Devil's Hunt&quot; and is back to unravel another mystery that features murder and political intrigue in 14th century England. And in this latest Corbett adventure, &quot;The Demon Archer&quot;, he gets to cross swords again with his french counterpart and arch enemy, Amaury Craon, as he delves into which one of the many people that hated Lord Henry Fitzalan killed him.<br />Lord Henry is a man much hated and feared. He is hard and unscrupulous, a lecher, and it is firmly believed that he practises the black arts. His younger brother chafes at having to be at Lord Henry's beck and call; his half sister, the Lady Madeline, who is the prioress of St. Hawisia, considers him to be a thorn at her side, and his chief verderer, Robert Verlain, resents Lord Henry's relentless pursuit of Verlain's daughter. Lord Henry also seems to be the target of a mysterious outlaw's spleen: the Owlman has been sending Lord Henry several threatening and cryptic messages.<br />The novel opens with the Owlman happily contemplating all the mischief and embarrassment he is about to cause Lord Henry by disrupting the hunting party Lord Henry is hosting. But as he makes his way through Ashdown Forest, the Owlman stumbles across the partially buried and already decomposing body of a young woman who had been killed by an arrow to the neck. The Owlman decides to retrieve the body and deposit it at the gates of the St. Hawisia's. In the meantime the hunting party has assembled at the forest. The party consists mainly of Sir William Fitzalan, Lord Henry's angry and resentful younger brother, and members of the French delegation that have assembled in England in order to negotiate a marriage settlement between Prince Edward of England and Princess Isabella of France. Amaury Craon just happens to be a member of said delegation, and it soon becomes obvious that Lord Henry has some kind of hold over Craon. Ashdown Forest seems to be full of people that hate Lord Henry, and it isn't too long before he is shot dead by an arrow to the chest.<br />The king send Corbett to investigate Lord Henry's murder. Edward 1 couldn't really care less who killed Lord Henry but he is anxious to know why the French specifically requested that Lord Henry be part of the marriage negotiations. Could Lord Henry be in France's pocket? And could the French have killed him because he was a liability? If Corbett can find proof of France's guilt, then the marriage treaty and the uneasy peace between France and England will be rescinded, and Edward 1 really and truly wants for the marriage treaty to come to nothing!<br />Which one of the many people that hated Lord Henry killed him? Who is the mysterious Owlman and why does he hate Lord Henry? Is the murder of the young woman that the Owlman found somehow tied to that of Lord Henry's, and if so how? And where and how does Craon figure into everything? Corbett has much to delve into, as he tries to unravel the many skeins that tie this mystery together. This is a well written and tautly crafted mystery novel, full of twist and turns and red herrings that is sure to keep the avid mystery reader totally engrossed. And Paul Doherty has also filled the novel with enough historical deatail to give the reader a glimpse of life in 14th century England, and another perspective of the political goings on of the time. The Hugh Corbett medieval mystery novels by Paul Doherty is one of the better historical mystery series around, and this latest installment in the series, &quot;The Demon Archer&quot; lives up to the expecations raised in the previous novels. A thoroughly enjoyable and engrossing book.s some kind of hold over Craon. Ashdown Forest seems to be full of people that hate Lord Henry, and it isn't too long before he is shot dead by an arrow to the chest.<br />The king send Corbett to investigate Lord Henry's murder. Edward 1 couldn't really care less who killed Lord Henry but he is anxious to know why the French specifically requested that Lord Henry be part of the marriage negotiations. Could Lord Henry be in France's pocket? And could the French have killed him because he was a liability? If Corbett can find proof of France's guilt, then the marriage treaty and the uneasy peace between France and England will be rescinded, and Edward 1 really and truly wants for the marriage treaty to come to nothing!<br />Which one of the many people that hated Lord Henry killed him? Who is the mysterious Owlman and why does he hate Lord Henry? Is the murder of the young woman that the Owlman found somehow tied to that of Lord Henry's, and if so how? And where and how does Craon figure into everything? Corbett has much to delve into, as he tries to unravel the many skeins that tie this mystery together. This is a well written and tautly crafted mystery novel, full of twist and turns and red herrings that is sure to keep the avid mystery reader totally engrossed. And Paul Doherty has also filled the novel with enough historical deatail to give the reader a glimpse of life in 14th century England, and another perspective of the political goings on of the time. The Hugh Corbett medieval mystery novels by Paul Doherty is one of the better historical mystery series around, and this latest installment in the series, &quot;The Demon Archer&quot; lives up to the expecations raised in the previous novels. A thoroughly enjoyable and engrossing book.	2001-03-06
2083725:US	52830980	R1SRJNY34IP3VD	0821767941	646599552	My Lord Highwayman (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	a surprisingly enjoyable read!	I didn't expect to enjoy this book as much as I did: at first glance it seemed to possess a rather predictably avereage plot -- that of a romance between a young and beautiful governess and the much wronged and ostracised hero. But Valerie King's &quot;My Lord Highwayman&quot; managed to suprise even me. There's so much more going on in this novel, and on every level, so that I can safely recommend this book as a highly satisfying and enjoyable read.<br />Miss Abigail Chailey is on her way to her latest post at the Lavant household when her coach is stopped by a mysterious and dashing Spanish highwayman. Abigail and her highwayman share a rather magical kiss under the moonlit skies, and such is the highwayman's effect on her, that she cannot forget him in spite of all the high drama that going on at Three Rivers Cross. And indeed high drama is the best description for all that's going on in this rather sleepy community. To begin with there is the very eccentric behaviour of Three Rivers Cross very own highwayman. A bit of a Robin Hood, he preys only on those affluent members of the community that have refused to support the building of an orphange, donating all the money he has stolen towards the building of said orphanage.  And then there is THE SCANDAL. <br />Almost 20 years ago, Lord Treyford, her employer's good friend, fell in love with the very young Duchess of Chandross, and tried to elope with her. They were stopped by the very irate Duke, and a duel ensued in which both men were injured. However, the Duchess's sister, Lady Waldron, has kept this scandal alive by poisonously slandering Lord Treyford. Both she and her husband have successfully made an outcast of Treyford in his own community, and they have also blocked Treyford's desire to build an orphange in the community. Almost from the very beginning Abigail is warned by Lady Waldron to aviod Treyford, but because of Lavant's friendship with Treyford, Abigail sees a side of Treyford that sits at odds with Lady Waldron's warnings. Abigail is not only drawn to Treyford's good looks but to his intelligence and charisma as well, but not even he can compete with her highwayman. Treyford is also drawn to Abigail: not only is she beautiful, but she also possesses a lively mind and is without the kind of artifice he usually associates with beautiful women. But can this tenuous attraction blossom? Abigail is looking for someone whom she can love, but who will love and value her in return. And having suffered from a rather lonely childhood, she desires to be part of a community more than anything else. Could the completely ostracised Treyford provide her with what she is seeking? What then of her highwayman? As for Treyford, he is very much attracted to Abigail, but can she replace his memory of his lost love?<br />When I first read the opening chapter of &quot;My Lord Highwayman&quot;, I couldn't help shaking my head in disbelief: I was asked to accept that Abigail was a young and beautiful governess, and with a trail of broken engagements behind her. This beggared belief: people seldom hired beautiful governesses, and for a governess to have been engaged more than once and to eligible parties as well, unbelievable! But as the novel progressed, I found myself totally engrossed at the goings on at Three Rivers Cross, and rooting for Abigail to find what it is she was looking for. I was really charmed by Abigail Chailey (and I'm seldom charmed by incredibly beautiful heroines). <br />As I noted before this is a novel that seems to be packed with subplots: from the obssessive need the Waldrons have to destroy Treyford; to the highwayman's connection to the Three Rivers Cross community; to Abigail's efforts to try and teach her young charge something of what it takes to be a polished young woman of society. But what this novel ultimately boils down to is relationship that develops and grows between Treyford and Abigail, and the reader's fervent hope that all ends well for them.This is a well written book, with well developed characters, and worthy of a 4 star rating.	2001-03-02
2084652:US	52830980	R2BQWM9V6ZVSZH	0821767968	369945283	A Bride For Lord Wickton (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	a very satisfying storyline	This is the second installment of the 'A Rose For Three Rakes' trilogy, and while it is not quite so light hearted as the first installment, &quot;A Bride For Lord Challmond&quot;, it nonetheless possesses a very soul satisfying storyline.<br />Barth Juston, Earl of Wickton, has decided that he cannot put off marrying Isa Lawford any longer. He is near penniless and his estates badly needs the influx of hard cash that Isa will bring to the marriage. So, nobly he curtails his pleasurable activities in London and leaves for Kent in order to claim his bride. However he suffers a great shock when Isa calmly informs him that she has no intention of marrying a selfish rake, and that she intends to marry someone else. Isa's father was a bit of a selfish rake who had married her mother for her mother's money, and Isa has no intention of having the same kind of marriage her mother had. Furthermore, Isa is more than a little hurt at Barth's casual dismissal of her feelings and affections all these years. <br />Not one to have his plans thwarted, Barth plans an aggressive campaign to rid himself of his rival and to win Isa's affections. Isa immediately sees what he is doing, and she cannot help but wonder if Barth is doing all this because he cannot bear to have his plans hindered or if perhaps he actually has warmer feelings for her than he is willing to admit. <br />Debbie Raleigh has done a wonderful job in her portrayal of Barth and Isa. At first is quite difficult to peg Barth: he has moments when he shows his warmer and more caring side; however for most of the book he shows only his more domineering and competitive side, so that the reader's sympathies are entirely with Isa, who fears ending up in a relationship where she will not be valued very highly, and one in which her feelings will be severly trampled by the more dominant Barth. This is a novel that delivers a message: the end does not justify the means. And when Barth comes to realise this and sees how selfishlyhe has behaved, never taking Isa's wishes into consideration, you just know that the happy ending awaiting the principal characters in the following chapter, makes sense. <br />&quot;A Bride For Lord Wickton&quot; lives up to the expectations raised in &quot;A Bride For Lord Challmond&quot;. This is definitely a book to be enjoyed in a cosy chair with a cup of tea and a plate of madeleines!	2001-03-01
2086143:US	52830980	R3MAC58HC994SS	0892967323	788927867	Family Reunion	Books	4	4	4	N	N	a good modern gothic	The &quot;Family Reunion&quot; is a rather good old fashioned novel, crafted somewhat on the gothic genre: for decades Odile Annesley has had nothing to do with her family. After the death of her favourite son, Odile abandoned her family to concentrate on her art. And for all these years, no one seems to have any contact with her. Now as she approaches her eightieth birthday, she sends her remaining relatives her will. This inspires her five remaining granddaughters to plan an impromptu visit to their grandmother in order to celebrate Odile's birthday, and to heal all breaches. The gothic touch comes into play when the reader realises that someone seems to be hunting down members of the Annesley clan and killing them off one by one, and that a mysterious young man, who may or may not be an Annesley relative also seems to be stalking the granddaughters. What will Odile's grandchildren find when they reach her estate in France, and will the mad killer and menacing stalker follow them there?<br />I found this novel to be an interesting and enjoyable read, except for a couple of points. As with &quot;The Neighbors&quot;, Carole Smith has peopled this novel with an assortment of characters that run the gamut from eccentric to rather obnoxious. All were quite well developed but unfortunately there just a little too many Annesleys, and I had to keep checking with the family tree to keep all the aunts and cousins and wives straight! Fortunately, about a third way through the book, a character explains all the familial relationships, so that the book was saved for me. And if it wasn't for the fact that I never warmed to the 'hero' of the piece, or that the only chracter I identified with was killed off (which probably says more about me than the quality of the book), I probably would have given the book a higher rating.<br />This is quite a good modern gothic novel, with just the right mix of a menacing atmosphere, peculiar and eccentric characters, and family secrets to keep the reader glued to the pages. A rather enjoyable read.	2001-02-28
2089265:US	52830980	RUGPRNTHEERF0	0385496370	873444808	Murder at Bertram's Bower: A Beacon Hill Mystery	Books	3	3	3	N	N	a very good follow up mystery.	I liked this mystery a lot better than the first Beacon Hill mystery, &quot; The Death of Colonel Mann&quot;. Unlike that book, I found this second installment in the Beacon Hill mystery series to be succinct and engrossing, with better developed characters -- all pluses when one is desperate for a good read. <br />Agatha Montgomery runs a refuge for 'fallen' women who want to try and change their circumstances. It has taken many years and much sacrifice but her enterprise, Bertram's Bower, is finally beginning to gain a reputation as a worthwhile charity amongst the wealthy of Boston. So that when one of the residents of the Bower is found brutally murdered, Agatha's childhood friend, Caroline Ames, fears that all of Agatha's good work will come to naught unless something is done. To this end, Caroline inveigles her brother, Addington, to investigate. Addington reluctantly agrees: he'd much rather not get involved in matters murderous, but if he can keep his sister from poking her refined nose into such matters by becoming personally involved himself, then he will do so. <br />But almost from the very beginning, Addington has much to contend with: the police want to make a speedy arrest, and when the officer in charge of the case realises that the Bower has an Irish handyman, he feels that he need look no further for the murderer. And then there is the curious behaviour of Agatha Montgomery and her brother, Randolph: both seem reluctant cooperate with the investigation. Then another girl from the Bower is found murdered. What exactly is going on at the Bower? And why are the Montgomerys so reluctant to accept Addington's help? Addington and Caroline will have to sift through much and work twice as fast as the city becomes paralysed with the fear that they have their own version of the Ripper on the loose.<br />While it is fairly obvious rather early on as to who the murderer is, Cynthia Peale's vivid descriptions of Boston, and her character portrayals all carriedme through the novel to the very end. But what really made this mystery novel work for me was the character of Caroline Ames. Here is a warm and competent woman, ready to involve herself in affairs of others in spite of what her brother thinks! I found that her character had blossomed somewhat when compared with the first Beacon Hill mystery, and for the better. Her firmness of resolve (bossiness in other words) had a shape and a purpose in this novel. I hope that Cynthia Peale allows this character to grow, because I know that I will read future books in this series because of Caroline. Addington Ames just leaves me cold!	2001-02-26
2108025:US	52830980	R1FA1J2IYSF0WM	1575666324	301086141	Sour Grapes (A Savannah Reid Mystery)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Sour Grapes	Be prepared to have sudden cravings for burgers, fires and onion rings while reading this delightful mystery! Savannah Reid, private detective extraodinaire is back and her latest outing involves providing security at the Miss Gold Coast Beauty Pageant. Savanah believes that this job will be smooth sailing -- afterall all she has to do is make sure that the contestants refrain from pulling each other's hair out over a can of hair spray. As usual things do not work out according to her expectations. To begin her kid sister, Atlanta, appears to be a participant in the pageant and she also seems to have lost alot of weight -- perhaps too much weight. Savannah is concerned for Atlanta's health, but even as she promises herself to do something about Atlanta, the most obnoxious contestant turns up dead. Who would want to kill a beauty contest participant? Savannah delves into the ins and outs of pageant life, hoping to nab a killer before he or she can strike again, and to keep Atlanta from harm.<br />This series featuring Savannah Reid, a southern transplant now living and working in California, is a lot of fun. And this is mostly because of the principal character -- Savannah. She's funny, compassionate, warm and really feisty. Her tongue in cheek asides, whether she's commenting about beauty pageants or certain characters -- friends or suspects -- are what really makes this series work. And while it was rather easy to figure out who the murderer was in this particular mystery, I enjoyed the novel nonetheless mainly because of Savannah's quick witted quips. An enjoyable read.	2001-02-10
2111205:US	52830980	R1YKNXZER7WOYB	0449007057	251859595	Slow Dissolve	Books	4	3	4	N	N	one of the best mystery books to deal with the film industry	Della Borton's mystery novels dealing with the wacky movie crazy Liberties and film industry is probably one of the best series that deals with that subject matter. And this series is based in Ohio, lending an even more off the wall wackiness to the whole thing. This time around Gilda Liberty dons her sleuthing cap to go to the aid of an almost relative suffering from Alzheimer's and who desperately needs to find someone before it's too late.<br />Gilda runs the Palace cinema and one afternoon Leo Mayer, a likeable old man walks into her cinema, claiming to have once made movies. Gilda then meets Leo's daughter-in-law, who informs Gilda that Leo has Alzheimer's. Gilda feels sorry for Leo and beyond confirming that Leo is a relative of sorts, she more or less puts the whole incident out of her mind until she gets a 'phone call from Styles, a detective she's had dealings with in previous mysteries. Styles had been hired by Leo's third wife, Shirley, to try and find someone Leo seems desperate to get in touch with. The only clue they have is a name: Auggie. No one seems to have any idea of whom &quot;Auggie&quot; may be, and when Styles descends into the basement to go through Leo's files and computer, she trips over a wire stretched across the stairs and falls, injuring herself rather badly. So Syles recriuts Gilda to do some sleuthing for her. It soon becomes apparent to everyone that someone either has it in for Leo or Shirley, as a string of accidents dog the pair. Is someone trying to prevent the Mayers from finding &quot;Auggie&quot; or is one of Leo's or Shirley's children trying to get to their bequests early? <br />This was a really enjoyable mystery. Della Borton realisticly gives the reader an insight as to what living with someone suffering from Alzheimer's entails as well as a look at the early years of movie making. And the search for &quot;Auggie&quot; was gripping as well, eventhough I more or less was able to deduce who Auggie was halfway through th novel. (But then I'm a PBS junky). As usual the shenanigans that the wacky movie crazed Liberty tribe gets up, not only provides a side order of comedic relief but also makes for great and enjoyable reading. This is a really fun series, and so far none of the three books in the series have disappointed. So if you' re a fan of movie making, give this series a go. You'll really enjoy it.	2001-02-08
2111276:US	52830980	R3NF6K6B4PYAE1	0821771086	276205658	The Valentine Charm (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	an enjoyable second installment	&quot;The Valentine Charm&quot; is a very enjoyable follow up to &quot;The Christmas Charm&quot;. In fact I enjoyed this novel a little better. Not only was the sensible heroine much more to my taste, but the plot was as well. &quot;The Valentine Charm&quot; pivots on two plots that are interconnected by the hero of the piece, Sir Hartley Ross. Ross is on the trail of a thief that steals fine objects of art, and is probably a member of society. The trail takes him to Bath where he meets and find himself strongly attracted to Amy Addington.<br />Finacial looses have forced Mrs. Vivian Reed (Amy'a aunt) to curtail her ambitious plans to launch  her beautiful daughter, Helen, into London society. So Vivian, Helen and Amy repair to Bath in the hope that they will be able to find a rich and aristocratic husband for Helen there. And things finally seem to be going Vivian's way when Helen catches the eye of Lord Ruskin, Ross's cousin. However Amy hears disquieting things about Ruskin and his disreputable ways. Even Ross tries to warn Amy about his cousin. But neither Vivan nor Helen will listen to reason. And Amy resolves to do all in her power to protect her cousin from Ruskin, even if it means foreswearing Sir Hartley Ross whom she finds very attractive indeed. Will Ross be able to accomplish the tasks of unmasking the thief and keeping Helen from harm, so that he can concentrate on his future with Amy? Will Amy calmly wait for Ross or take action on her own?<br />Not only did this novel make for exciting reading, the characters were all very richly fleshed out as well: for example Helen appears as a bit of a self-absorbed airhead as first, but is fleshed out over the subsequent chapters to make her character more interesting and more accessible. Amy Addington is a gem of course: beautiful, sensible and quite brave. She is determined to protect her female relatives in the absence of any male relaives on the scene. And while she will accept help from her friends in orderto do so, she does not stand idly by waiting for someone else to do what needs to be done.<br />&quot;The Valentine Charm&quot; is an enjoyable second installment to the Addington trilogy, and seems to be a series that keeps getting better. And I have quite high hopes for the next installment.	2001-02-07
2113390:US	52830980	RRHMQVL9ACT06	0821767844	820699838	The Marrying Man (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	enjoy this book for it's one of a kind hero	For as long as he can remember, Sir St. John Peenyworth has longed to be married, and he feels that he is now ready to take that final step. And at his good friend's wedding, St. John believes he has finally met the woman who is right for him. So impulsively, St. John proposes to Miss Althea Pierce, never dreaming that she would reject his suit. Althea is still reeling from the betrayal of her fiance, Betram Fenton, and she believes that St. John is poking fun at her, in spite of the fact that she has heard only good things about his kindness and his gallantry. However Althea is also a young women who has just suffered a huge betrayal at Fenton's hands, and her confidence is low as is her ability to judge people. So while she feels a little doubt at her swift dismissal of St. John, she nonetheless believes that she has done the right thing.<br />The pair next meet in London -- St. John is busy trying to find a young lady who will marry him, and Althea is trying to enjoy herself while avoiding Fenton. Naturally the two cross paths over and over again. St. John is still attracted to Althea and Althea is moved by St. John's gallantry and kindness, especially as St. John takes it upon himself to protect Althea from Fenton's inopportune attentions. But how is a young lady to indicate to a gentleman that she might now be open to his courtship, especially if she is somewhat unsure as to his motives? <br />This was a goodish book, made all the more enjoyable by the nice and amusing twist Kathry June gave to the plot: in &quot;The Marrying Man&quot; it is the man decides it is time to marry and settle down and goes all out to try and find a wife! The characters were all nicely fleshed out except perhaps for Fenton, but this did not bother me at all as it was St. John's Pennyworth's character that really made this book for me. Here was a hero who was kind as well as gallant and dashing. And while Althea was pretty much the standard heroine, there was one scene where she did arant on what women go through during their Season. This scene allowed her to rise above the mold of average heroine. There were a few transition problems with a few chapters that interrupted the smooth flow of the story. However, Kathry June did an very good and believable job of bringing the pair together and resolving the few niggling issues that remain.<br />An enjoyable read made all the more memorable by it's unique hero.	2001-02-06
2115275:US	52830980	RKMLORILO1QII	0786708220	979018861	A Dish Taken Cold	Books	4	10	11	N	N	an interesting historical novella	Be forewarned: this novella is NOT a mystery; but rather is a short story dealing with the issues of loss and revenge. For fans of Anne Perry who appreciate her explorations of social issues in her Thomas &amp; Charlotte Pitt and William Monk mystery novels, &quot;A Dish Take Cold&quot; will be an enjoyable read. <br />The social issue that Perry goes into in this novella is that of the French Revolution, the stage at which Marat is coming into power, and the blood bath is about to begin. What happens when the revolution you wanted sweeps away not only all that was wrong but also all that was right, the innocent as well as the guilty? We see things through the eyes of Celie, a young widow who works for the celebrated Madame de Stael; and through the eyes of Madame de Stael herself -- the chaos, the uncertainty, the bloodshed, and the betrayals. For Celie herself this period is proving all the more heart wrenching as her little baby boy has just suddenly passed away while in the care of Celie's good friend, Amandine. The loss is almost more than she can bear, and when another servant insinuates that Celie's baby probably died from neglect, the urge to avenge her dead child grows in Celie. How Celie plots her revenge and then tries desperately to undo the harm that she has wrought is what drives this novella.<br />I'm a history buff, and I've always enjoyed Anne Perry's ruminations on various social issues, so that I enjoyed this little novela very much. This is a very stark short story that deals primarily with the events that take place over a few days, so don't expect in depth characterisations and explainations. &quot;A Dish Taken Cold&quot; is mostly about Celie: what she feels and how she acts on her confused feelings. Madame de Stael, while she may be preceived as a more interesting person is only a secondary character who inspires Celie to try and undo her revenge scheme. <br />This is a truly stark but interesting novella, one that most history addicts will enjoy.	2001-02-04
2115538:US	52830980	R142LJRAOCZ6V4	0821768050	904870304	Lady May's Folly (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Lady May's Folly	I approached &quot;Lady May's Folly&quot; with some trepidation. I had enjoyed &quot;Lord St. Claire's Angel&quot; so much and had been somewhat disappointed with the follow up novel, &quot;Lady Delafont's Dilemma&quot;, and I really wanted to be able to endoss &quot;Lady May's Folly&quot;. So, it is with great relief that I report that with this latest novel, Donna Simpson has recaptured much of the essence that made her first book so successful and memorable.<br />Lady May, the secondary female character in &quot;Lady Delafont's Dilemma&quot; is back at her country estate, recovering from the brutal assault she suffered at her mother's lover's hands. She spends her time riding about her estate, thinking about her unhappy childhood and what happened to her in London, and her discomfort in her own sexuality (which she lays entirely at her mother's door). One day she comes across a badly wounded man. Imagine her surprise when she discovers that the man is Etienne Delafont, the gallant Frenchman who helped rescue her from her kidnapper. May, along with the rest of English society, had believed that Etienne had drowned when the ship he was on had gone down; and yet he he was, near death and at her feet!. Realising that Etienne is in some kind of trouble, May hides him in her folly, and begins to try and nurse him back to health.<br />And indeed Etienne is in serious trouble: not only is he wanted for the several attempts on his cousin's life, the Marquess of Sedgely, he is now also on the run from his former criminal cohorts. May is determined to not only nurse Etienne, but to somehow help him evade those that will come after him as well. And while all this makes sense to May on some conscious level, one another level, May is quite uncomfortable by the attraction  she feels for him. How will the attraction and the desire that fairly sizzles between the two pan out? And will Etienne be able to elude the men that are after him?<br />Donna Simpson's handling of how May comes to terms with her sexuality, and her heritage is nothing short of brilliant. And the romance between Etienne and May unfolds at a pace that is most satisfying. May's character is developed very well, however Etienne's character could have done with a little more fleshing out. However this is primarily May's story, so this is a fault that is almost insignificant. &quot;Lady May's Folly&quot; is an enjoyable book, and will not disappoint.	2001-02-04
2115895:US	52830980	R2H061T7RM92GL	0743201965	718662431	Bone House	Books	5	22	22	N	N	a must read!!	The &quot;Bone House&quot; is a haunting and compelling tale. I simply could not put this book down! Betsy Tobin does a wonderful job of evoking the lives of the inhabitants of a small and somewhat isolated 17th century Elizabethan village, bringing to life all the different denizens of the village: from the landed gentry that inhabit the Great House and all their servants, to the ordinary people in the village. <br />The novel centers around the mysterious figure of Dora, the village prostitute, who suddenly appeared in the village many years ago. No one knows much about Dora, where she came from or why she left her native country to settle in rural England; but such was her charm and vitality that she was almost immediately accepted by all the men and women alike in the village. And when she is found dead, at the bottom of a ravine, everyone is shocked and saddened by the loss. None more so than the unnamed narrator of the novel. Our narrator is the daughter of the village midwife, and has longed admired Dora for her courage and warmth, so that Dora's death hits her really hard. And when it comes to light that Dora died pregnant, our narrator begins an obsessive quest to discover who the father of the unborn child is, and to find out if she can uncover more about Dora's past. In the process, our narrator sees how much Dora touched and affected all those around her, herself included; and sees that that influence that does not seem to preclude death.<br />This novel is a absorbing read. The plot is a compelling one and is richly textured with most themes that one would expect from a historical novel that is set in the 17th century: birth and death, sexuality, superstition and witchcraft. However it is the way in which Tobin has pulled all these themes together that is a testimony to her masterly storytelling skills. I think that I can safely recommend the &quot;Bone House&quot; as one of the best historical novels I have read for quite a while.	2001-02-04
2118083:US	52830980	R1HFKKYLQMT4W7	0345433289	897961335	The Whitechapel Conspiracy (Thomas Pitt, Book 21)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Anne Perry is back in top form	I sometimes have the tendency to overlook shortcomings in authours I admire very much. And until I read &quot;The Whitechapel Conspiracy&quot;, I didn't realise how much I've missed reading Anne Perry at her best. And in this latest Thomas &amp; Charlotte Pitt mystery novel, Anne Perry is in top form! This novel with all it's dangerous conspiracies, and it's seemingly motiveless murder made for some very compelling reading indeed.<br />The novel opens with the trial of John Adinett: he has been accussed of murdering his friend Martin Fetters. Pitt was the investigating officer in this case, and while he found evidence of Adinett's guilt, and of Adinett's hasty attempts of trying to pass of Fetter's murder as an accident, Pitt was unable to discover a motive for the murder. Pitts acquits himself well in the witness box in spite of the Adinett's lawyer's attempt to paint Pitt as a vindictive and envious man. Adinett is found guilty; but Pitt is vilified in the newspapers, and Adinett's powerful friends who seem to be member of the Inner Circle (a secretive group that Pitt has locked horns with before) cause Pitt to relieved of his post at Bow Street and seconded to the East End as an undercover agent for the Special Branch.<br />While devasted at the turn of events, Charlotte Pitt and the Pitt's maid Gracie refuse to take things lying down. To this end they decide to try and discover a motive for Fetters's murder. Charlotte decides to enlist Fetter's widow to this end, while Gracie recruits Sergeant Tellman. So while Charlotte and Mrs. Fetters go through Fetters's private papers and effects, Gracie and Tellman roam the streets of London, never dreaming that their quest to vindicate Pitt would lead them to Whitechapel and into the very middle of one of England's most notorious of cases.<br />This novel pivots mostly on the detecting efforts of Gracie and Tellman; and the chapters the describe Tellman and Gracie scurrying around all over London, following faint clues, until they finally end up at Whitechapel, makes for riverting and breatheless reading. I couldn't stop reading until I reached the end of the book! This novel also belongs to the female characters: Charlotte and Juno (Fetters's wife) who intrepidly go on in their search for answers even when they realise that there are those that will try to stop them by whatever means necessary; to Gracie who stubbornly keeps going in spite of the danger; and to Vespasia who uses whatever little power she has to help Pitt. &quot;The Whitechapel Conspiracy&quot; also centers around questions that were on everyone's mind back in the 1890s and it is now: whether or not there was a place for a rather out of touch monarchy in modern times, and the need for drastic social reforms. Unlike the Amazon.com reviewer, I found such ruminations interesting and compelling. For quite a few Victorians, the very thought of a revolution that would do away with all the instituitions they were familair with, would have been frightening; and I found getting the points of view of people from differnt walks of life -- from Sgt. Tellman to Vespasia -- enlightening. The need for reform is obvious, but would a revolution that took away all that was good as well all that was bad be beneficial to all?<br />&quot;The Whitechapel Conspiracy&quot; showcases Anne Perry's brilliant tale spinning art at her best. I read the book in one sitting: I simply could not put this book down. Definitely recommended reading.	2001-02-02
2118788:US	52830980	R2OBHBU6HU88MQ	0821768069	34580882	The Wagered Wife (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	a wholehearted recommnedation	This is one novel that I can wholeheartedly recommend without any reservations! Wilma Counts has written a really good regency romance that also manages at the same time to cater to those of us who need for our heroines to possess at least some 21st century sensibilities!<br />The Honourable Trevor Jeffries, wrapped in grief for having caused (in his mind anyway) the deaths of his twin and his best friend, has been doing his level best to lose himself in a whirl of exceesively disreputable behaviour. The end result of which he finds himself losing everything at cards to Baron Fiske. The only way that the Baron will allow him to cancel his debt is if Trevor agrees to marry Fiske's young neice, Caitlin Woodbridge. Trevor of course agrees, and in no shot order finds himself wed to a young and awkward girl barely out of the schoolroom. <br />Trevor takes Caitlin to his estate in East Anglia, an estate that is falling apart and badly in need of funds. However neither Trevor nor Caitlin have any money, and they are finding it hard going trying to run an estate and make their marriage work. And when summouns arrive requesting that Trevor attend his parents in London, Trevor leaves after having quarrelled with Caitlin yet again. Once in London Trevor's family work on him to leave his wife and to apply for an annulment; they manage to convince him that he was gulled by Fiske and that Caitlin is probably an adventuress already carrying someone else's child. Trevor listens to his family and escapes by enlisting for the Peninsula.<br />Seven years go by, and while the Jeffries still refuse to recognise Trevor's marriage to Caitlin or the daughter she has borne him,  Caitlin has managed to rescue the estate and has succeeded in making it a profitable enterprise. And when Trevor finally returns from the Peninsula, he realises that not only does he still have a wife (and a wife that has blossomed into a very attractive young woman), but that he has a daughter as well. Trevor decides to try and mend his marriage with Caitlin. But it is not easy: he has to contend with the rather nasty rumours that surround his wife, her distrust of him, and his suspicions that she is an adventuress. Will Trevor and Caitlin be able to mend their marriage or will the Jeffries succeed again in driving the two apart? <br />I liked this novel primarily because of Caitlin. She is a worthy heroine: brave, practical and warm hearted. But the main reason this novel met with my wholehearted approval was because Wilma Counts makes Trevor work at earning Caitlin's trust and love. Trevor keeps jumping to erroneous conclusions and frequently makes an ass of himself. However Caitlin doesn't fall on his neck and accept his treatment just because he apologises! Trevor is a young man that needs to grow up an become his own person, and in this novel we see that. And that's what makes this novel such worthwhile reading.	2001-02-01
2121395:US	52830980	R28GS6IUKJUEOM	0892966955	500244491	Murder Me Now	Books	3	5	5	N	N	a very good follow up mystery	I enjoyed &quot;Murder Me Now&quot; a whole lot better than I did &quot;Free Love&quot;: the mystery in this novel is a compelling and interesting one; and as usual, Annetter Meyers has peopled her novel with alot of intriguing and appealing characters. I even liked Olivia Brown a lot better in this book than I did in the first! I only have three reservations about this Olivia Brown mystery: firstly that the murder victim remains an enigma even to the very end. We get very little idea of who she really is and what motivated her to do what she did; secondly, there were several oblique remarks made in this novel in reference to events that took place in the first book, with very little elaboration or enlightenment. This can be very frustrating if you haven't read &quot;Free Love&quot; yet. And thirdly, that the ending was incredibly rushed -- everything came together at a great speed in the last two chapters!<br />On the whole though &quot;Murder Me Now&quot; is an absorbing mystery novel which also gives the reader a very good idea of what life was like for the bohemians in the 1920s Greenwich Village, admidst Prohibition. A good read.	2001-01-30
2123082:US	52830980	R3TVLUY8JEWQY0	0312268920	282668517	Poor Tom Is Cold	Books	5	20	21	N	N	a mesmerising read	Although I knew from almost the very beginning that a murder had been committed and who did it, this novel still managed to captivate my attention. This is the third novel in the William Murdoch mystery series set in Victorian Toronto, and it is as riverting and as compelling as the first two books.<br />A young constable, Oliver Wicken, is found dead on his beat, with a bullet in his head from his own gun, and a suicide note on his body. William Murdoch is asked to investigate Wicken's death; and in spite of the coroner's desire to wrap things up quickly, and Murdoch's own niggling doubts about the suicide, William Murdoch is determined to do his best find out the truth about Wicken's death. But his initial investigations only seems to confuse the issue further: Murdoch finds quite a few people that can testify that Wicken was in his usual excellent spirits; however he also finds evidence that Wicken did indeed have a sweetheart and that he did meet her on the night of his death, thus giving credence to Wicken's suicide note. In the meantime, in the house ajoining the one in which Wicken's body was found, the Eakin family are having problems of their own. Nathaniel Eakin's third wife, Peg, fears that someone in the family is trying to poison her, and has barricaded herself in her room, refusing to come out or to eat. Just as Murdoch arrives to ask if anyone in the Eakin household had seen or heard anything that might shed light on Wicken's death, Peg is being carted off to the local asylum. Little does Murdoch realise that Peg is at the center of all that is going on around her. And as each chapter ends, the suspense and the anticipation mounts: will Murdoch get to Peg before it is too late?<br />This is a very atmospheric novel. Maureen Jennings's stark and bleak descriptions of the Canadian winter actually made me feel chilled to the bone. And the chapters where she describes the treatment that is meted out to poor Peg at the asylum is chilling and horrifying. Peg's feelings of helplesness and hopelessness are palpable to the reader, and is a testimony of Maureen Jennings's talent and art. And although this is not a conventional murder mystery -- the murderer is glaringly obvious even if his motif is not at first; also Maureen Jennings has set up the plot is such a way as to make the reader an omniscient one -- this is still a suspenseful novel. The reader is invited to eagerly read on as Murdoch follows the faint strand of evidence that leads him to all kinds of eccentric characters and all over Toronto. A mesmerising read indeed.	2001-01-29
2133578:US	52830980	R3JPFPWBDRUJJZ	0451202325	949757708	Cupboard Kisses (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	25	25	N	N	a throughly enjoyable read	I first read this novel almost 10 years ago; I enjoyed it then, and I enjoyed again when I reread it a few days ago. The plot of this novel revolves around Cristabel Swann, and the unfortunate set of circumstances that cause quite a few people to mistake her for a high-class courtesan.<br />Cristabel teaches music at a borading school. Her only outlet from this rather deary task is her day dreams of owning her own home and having a private income to go with it. And her only hope of ever achieving this dream lies in the belief that she will one day inherit her uncle's house and whatever monies comes with it. So, when Cristabel receives a letter from her uncle's lawyer requesting her presence in London, she impulsively quits her job and sets out to receive her inheritance. Imagine her horror when upon her arrival she discovers that her uncle has gambled all he owned away to a loutish naval captain! <br />Aghast at her situation, the captain offers Cristabel a job as the landlady of a boarding house in Kensington that her uncle formerly owned. What neither the captian nor Cristabel realise is that the house is actually a high-class bordello. And so the sweet and somewhat naive Cristabel finds herself looking after a stable of young &quot;working&quot; women who seem to have a lot of admirers and who seem not to have to go to work very much. Soon Cristabel is making friends with her &quot;boarders&quot; and meeting all kinds of people. And for the first time ever, she even seems to have a beau of her own, even if he is a tad too familiar in his attentions. Things are looking up indeed for Cristabel Swann. But what will she do when she discovers exactly what kind of house it is she is running, and why her beau is so forward?<br />What really makes this book work is the central character in this novel: Cristabel Swann. I really felt for the young woman who had so few friends and who spendt her time daydreaming about having her own house and possessing at least one prettydress; I entered fully into her feelings of anger and disappointment when she discovered that she had no inheritance at all, only a mountain of her uncle's debts; and I cheered when Cristabel started her rant on the perfidy of men. The men in this book, and there were a few, while playing somewhat pivotal roles were completely secondary to the plot -- this is Cristabel's story. And Barbara Metzger tells it in a deft, capable and magical manner. Cristabel Swann in a heroine that will charm and win hearts. A thoroughly fun read.	2001-01-20
2138142:US	52830980	R293M6L3MTVDJS	0553801813	694900967	The Widow's Kiss	Books	3	14	14	N	N	The Widow's Kiss	&quot;The Widow's Kiss&quot; is more a novel of romantic intrigue than it is a mystery -- for some reason several bookstores I visited over the weekend had this book in the mystery section. So if you a big historical mystery addict, be forewarned that there is very little mystery in this novel at all. However, the book does score very high on the suspense/intrigue level.<br />The plot of &quot;The Widow's Kiss&quot; centers around a land dispute. Hugh of Beaucaire believes that a vast tract of land should rightfully be his son's; the Lady Guinevere Mallory however disputes his claim and refuses to give up the land. So Hugh decides to tweak the interest of the King of England (Henry VIII), and that of the Privy Seal (Thomas Cromwell), by insinuating that the Lady Guinevere may have killed off all her previous husbands (4 in all) in order to inherit their wealth. The Privy Seal sends off Hugh to investigate. Right from the very beginnning however Hugh is drawn to the Lady Guinevere, as she is to him. However he does not fully trust her. But by the time Hugh finally decides that he doesn't really care if Guinevere murdered her latest husband or not, it is too late: he has set in motion events he can do nothing about; for now the Privy Seal is involved and he wants Guinevere's wealth for the Crown. <br />The second half of the book, where Guinevere has to defend herself to the King and the Privy Seal is brilliant and realistic. The tension is palpable and electric. You can actually sense the very real danger that the Lady Guinevere is facing and her complete isolation from everyone she cares about or who could help. Both the King and the Privy Seal are painted in appropriate menacing terms. The feeling of attraction that Hugh and Guinevere feel for each other even while they do not fully trust each other is believeable as well. So why did I give this book a 3 star rating? Because of the rushed last few chapters which gave the book a slightly of centre feel. This is a historical romance, so I understand that one cannot expect twentieth century sensibilities; however I do wish that there had been an added chapter or even a few extra pages where Hugh castigates himself a little bit more for his treatment of Guinevere -- this would have made the book more satisfying for me, and I do believe it would have centred the book a bit more. Jane Feather is a wonderful writer; &quot;Valentine&quot;; &quot;Vixen&quot; &amp; &quot;The Accidental Bride&quot; are a few of her books that I enjoy rereading every now and then. And I enjoyed &quot;The Widow's Kiss&quot; as well except for the pacing that was a little off. <br />&quot;The Widow's Kiss&quot; is on the whole a good read, esp at the intrigue level. The rushed ending is a little disconcerting but does not detract form the overall enjoyment of the book. All in all, a good read.	2001-01-16
2142142:US	52830980	R3D9NIRKZF24SN	0312242190	635065918	The Monk Who Vanished: A Celtic Mystery	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Monk Who Vanished	The stakes are high indeed in this seventh installment in the Sister Fidelma mystery series, because this time she is fighting to protect her brother's claim to the kingship of Murman.<br />The Ui Fidgente, a major clan of Murman, have been adversaries of Cashel for a long time, and indeed they have long challenged Cahsel's right to the kingship of Murman, refusing to pay tribute. Now however the current prince of Ui Fidgente, has decided to put all the bad blood between the two clans behind him and to negotiate a treaty of peace with Cashel. To this end, he and his retinue have come to Cashel in a gesture of goodwill in order to hammer out some form of an agreement. However, just as the two princes are about to exchange greetings, an unknown bowman shoots at them, wounding both men. He is later found dead, wearing the emblem of the Golden Chain, which identifies him as a member of Cashel's elite bodyguard. This proves to be a bad sign for Fidelma's brother, for if he is found guilty of the attempt of the prince of Ui Fidengente's life, the kingship of Murman would then be forfeit to the Ui Fidengente! Another bad sign: in the abbey at Imleach, the relics of the holy man Ailbe, has been stolen. Legend has it that if ever the relics were stolen then the kingship of Murman would fall from Cashel and chaos would ensue. It looks as if the two incidents are tied and that Fidelma will have to do some rather nifty detective work to discover who exactly is behind this move to take the throne away from her brother and start a war.<br />This historical mystery series is a really good one even if Peter Tremayne's writing style is a little to dense and dry. However he has struck gold in his creation of Sister Fidelma. In Fidelma, Tremanyne has created a brilliant and charming heroine, with a thirst to see justice done and set things right. The plot of this mystery novel is intriguing and a little convoluted, full of red herrings and sub-plots that have sometimes very little todo with the actual problem at hand. However the final denouncement where Fidelma finally lays all her cards on the table makes everything worthwhile: the somewhat dry and dense prose, the convoluted plot with all its red herrings, and the somewhat ranting style of communication that nearly everyone save Fidelma and Brother Eadulf seem to employ. A book well worth reading inspite of the few nit-picking problems I had with it.	2001-01-13
2142606:US	52830980	R3DVG6BCO6XVF4	0515129933	48166087	The Scottish Bride: Bride Series	Books	3	4	5	N	N	The Scottish Bride	I'll confess that when I read the Bride trilogy all those years ago, Tysen, eventhough he was such a periphral character, was my favourite character. All that Sherbrooke perfection made my headache, Tysen the odd duck in the lake full of swans was such a relief, and I really hoped that Catherine Coulter would write a book that would feature Tysen as the hero. That novel has finally been written and on the whole, I'm really pleased with it.<br />Tysen Sherbrooke is now a widower with three children, Meggie, Max and Leo. The oldest child, Meggie is 10 years old, and believes her duty in life is to protect her unworldly father from the pressures of day to day life. So when Tysen is informed  he has just inherited Kildrummy Castle in Scotland, Meggie in spite of her father's objections decides to tag along in order to protect her father from the Scots and all the nitty gritty problems of running a castle.<br />Both father and daughter find alot more than they bargained for: from relatives that are bent on interferring to the local poeple who do not seem to care for their English lord. And then there is the mystery of Mary Rose Fordyce, also known as the Bastard. When Tysen first comes across Mary Rose, she is hiding from the unwanted attention of a neighbour, Erickson MacPhail. Tysen, a sober and honourable man feels for her plight and tries to talk to Mary Rose's uncle about what's going on. He is both angered and flabbergasted by her uncle who seems to condone MacPhail's bad behaviour. Clearly something else is going on that he is not privy to. So that when Mary Rose turns up at Kildrummy Castle seeking sanctuary after another attack, Tysen vows to protect her, even if he has to marry her himself!<br />As I said earlier, I've been looking forward to a book centering around Tysen, and &quot;The Scottish Bride&quot; is satisfying on most levels. It's great to see the general relaxing of Tysen's hitherto rather staid and stern demeanour. Mary Rose seems to bring out allthe laughter and warmth that seemed to be trapped within him. The interaction between Tysen and Meggie also made for rather touching reading -- to see a father value his daughter and her abilities, is always satisfying. I think my one caveat is that Catherine Coulter did not really explore what made Tysen so different from his siblings. She goes into in somewhat, but I personally would have liked a bit more.<br />All in all though, this was an enjoyable novel about a devout and honourable man who finally meets the warm hearted and courageous woman he was meant to spend his life with!	2001-01-12
2142836:US	52830980	R2CAR8HN925911	0451201469	714396221	The Yorkshire Lady (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Yorkshire Lady	This novel centers a little more on it's intrigue/adventure plot than it does on the romance between the two pricipals, Rachel Barton and Yves St. Armand. Having said that however, I must add that the book still makes for some truly enjoyable reading. Rachel Barton is an exceptional heroine -- intelligent and self reliant, brave, outspoken and warm hearted. And Nadine Miller does a wonderful job of allowing Yves St. Armand to transcend the mould of typical hero -- Yves manages to change from an avenging knight to someone who sees that there is more to life than revenge and that Rachel just may be the person to share that life with him. <br />The novel opens with Yves being warned by Lord Castlereagh that he is making too much noise in his search for the English traitor who had betrayed him and almost cost him his life. Such work must be handled delicately and with stealth. Castlereagh has narrowed down the suspects to four men, and asks Yves help in discovering which of the men their likely traitor could be. Both men settle on the Earl of Fairborne and the most likely candidate and the one that Yves will investigate first. The Earl in the meantime has been courting a rich Yorkshire mill owner, Rachel Barton. Rachel is currently a guest at his London house. A sensible woman, Rachel soon comes to realise that while she is much charmed by the Earl, that that is not quite enough to base a marriage on, and has some serious doubts as to whether they would suit each other at all. <br />One night Rachel walks in on an intruder in the Earl's bookroom. Rachel thinks that she has walked in on a burgular, a burgular whose kisses makes her senses reel. Later, she discovers that the burgular is actually a rich French nobleman. Rachel's vivid imagination leads her to believe that Yves is a French spy up to no good. Yves cannot believe that Rachel would think the very worst of him and loyally stick by the Earl, and while he is angered by her assumptions, her loyalty to the Earl also wins his grudging admiration. Yves manages to persuade her that he is not England's enemy, but he has a much more difficult time trying to sell Rachel the idea that the Earl could be a traitor. Loathe to believe the worst of her friend, Rachel agress to asssist Yves in his investigation, if only to prove that the Earl is no traitor. What will Yves and Rachel discover in their investigations? Will the Earl prove to be the villain Yves believes him to be? And will Yves finally cease protesting that Rachel is not his 'type' and admit that his feeling for her are alot warmer than he will let on?<br />I liked this book for it's not quite in the usual mode heroine. I'll admit I'm partial to the 'not quite in the usual mode'. The romance between the two principals did take a back seat to search for the traitor for a while, but then the romance did gather momentum, and was, I think on the whole, very deftly managed. Reading of how Yves comes to slowly realise his true feelings for Rachel was truly satisfying. Nadine Miller's writing style is crisp and to the point, and there are no extraneous plots or characters to throw you off your stride and make you wonder what exactly is going on. An excellent book, worth recommneding.	2001-01-12
2155982:US	52830980	R2PNEYEMVDFWXE	0821769952	138646315	Educating Emily (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	a very satisfying read	I enjoyed reading this novel immensely: not only did it possess a rather touching love story, with a very sweet young heroine and a rather dashing hero; but it also touched on certain social issues of the time, such as the treatment of women, and that of the poor and disppossessed. Mona Prevel handled the subject matters in an intelligent and compassionate manner that reminded me very much of the great female authouresses of the late 18th and 19th centuries. This novel really satisfies on every level.<br />Emily Walsingham should be looking forward to enjoying her first foray into London society, instead of which her brother, Miles, informs her that he has wagered her in a hand of cards and lost and she is now to marry a near senile and diseased aristrocat. Emily of course baulks at the thought of such a mariage, and runs away from home disguised as a servant. However it looks as if she has leapt from the frying pan into the fire! Emily had hoped to seek shelter with her aunt in Kent, but she is abducted by two dissalute young aristocrats bent on rape. But just as things seem darkest, Emily is rescued by the dashing Lord Northwycke, James Garwood.<br />James takes her to his home and employs her as a servant. It look as if the previously sheltered Emily is learning some of life's harshest of lessons all at once! James's mother however sees through Emily's disguise and realises who Emily really is. Lady Northwycke has been eager for James to marry for quite a while and eagerly promotes a match between the two. James, quite taken with Emily, and wanting to protect her, agrees to marry Emily. It soon becomes evident to James that Emily is quite in love with him, and while he feels some affection, and much desire for her, he seriously doubts that he is capable of stronger emotions. However the more time he spends with her the more he comes to cherish her intelligence, compassion and her inner strength. Perhaps he is capable of loving afterall. But there are some seriousthreats to James's and Emily's happiness -- namely that of James's discarded and incensed ex-mistress. Will that lady succeed in her plans to destroy Emily?<br />While the plot is fairly commonplace, Mona Prevel's handling of this storyline is not. She delves into all kinds of issues from what was expected of a lady in the marriage bed to the plight of women who are frequently powerless (whether it be at their husbands' hands or that of their employers'); and this is what makes this novel alot stronger than it might otherwise have been. The novel is entitled &quot;Educating Emily&quot;, referring to all the things that Emily has come to know about since she ran away from home; however it would be accurate to note that James also receives an education of sorts, not only on the plight of those without hope or the power to ease their situations, but also on how to love and cherish a wife -- even Miles, Emily's brother, receives an education on how to be a better and more responsible person. <br />This novel had everything from a few fashion notes, to a commentary on the social ills of the time, to a charming romance that shows the couple growing towards each other -- so that there is something to satisfy nearly everyone. &quot;Educating Emily&quot; definitely makes for very satisfying reading.	2001-01-02
2157231:US	52830980	R1CU2OJ5TMVGCN	0312977670	293937453	Deadly Love	Books	4	8	9	N	N	an engrossing read	I really enjoyed this first book in a series featuring Francesca Cahill, aspiring private investigator. Seldom have I read a book that is brimming with the same kind of raw energy as that of the main character, Francesca. I was so caught with the enthusiasm and energy that this novel possessed that time passed without me realising it until the book was finished. This novel definitely makes for engrossing reading!<br />Francesca Cahill believes in doing something worthwhile with her life. An ardent reformer, her current ambition is to be the first female newspaper reporter in New York. However, Francesca  is also the member of a prominent New York family, where the daughters marry well, have children and partake in the social functions -- they do not attend college and get jobs!<br />At one of her mothers social dos, Francesca meets the new police commissiomer, Rick Bragg, and is immediately drawn to him. Unfortunately, she also finds herself, to her chagrin, behaving quite awkwardly. Later that same night, she discovers a cryptic unsigned missive, which she dismisses as some kind of prank while she tries to work out her uncharacteristic response to Bragg. The next morning however, the Cahills are shocked to discover that while the party was going on, someone had kidnapped one of their neighbour's sons. Francesca immediately realises the significance of the note and rushes off to inform Bragg. And even though Bragg warns her not to get involved and to leave the matter to the police, Francesca cannot help but become involved. The search for the truth and the little boy is too important to Francesca to give up. And soon she is knee deep in the race to find the missing boy who seems to be in the hands of a mad man bent on revenge rather than a ransome. Francesca's investigations will lead her to the seamier side of New York City, through the slums and into danger; her search will also lead her to discover some rather uncomfortable truths about her own family, truths shemay have prefered not to know at all.<br />This is probably going to be the last book I read this year, and I'm glad that I closed out the year on a high note. Brenda Joyce has created a wonderful protagonist in Francesca Cahill, who is brave and passionate and simply brimming with energy. It is obvious that this charcater is young and a little naive -- in fact her naivety lands her in danger more than once! But we not only overlook this but root for Francesca to somehow come out on top and go on. The plot is clever one and the pacing of the sequence of events is flawless: the tension is palpable as page after page one wonders at what new horror will be uncovered and if the unfortuante little boy will be found alive.<br />A masterfully written novel. I look forward to the next Francesca Cahill novel eagerly.	2001-01-01
2161109:US	52830980	RNW3Q7UMPO6DU	0821767712	801357363	A Bride For Lord Challmond (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	a very charming confection	This first installment in the 'A Rose for Three Rakes' trilolgy is a very charming, light romantic novel that should satisfy as well as entertain. It all starts with three rakish friends who, while enjoying themselves in Italy, rescue a gypsy from some farmers. The grateful gypsy blesses them with the promise that they will all find true love and happiness before the year's end. The men of course do not believe in the blessing and instead draw up a wager: by June the first, the first 'fool' to fall in love and marry must forfeit one thousand pounds and a red rose. Thus begins the first novel, and Simon Townsled's, Lord Challmond, story.<br />Returning home to Devonshire after having been abroad for so long, the first person Simon comes across is Claire Blakewell, an old childhood friend and neighbour. When he first sees Claire, she is in the process of royally dressing down his estate manager for abuses and neglect. And while Simon is drawn to Claire's beauty and vivaciy, he naturally does not take well to her charge that he has been neglecting his estate. He considers her to be far too managing for comfort. So that when he later discovers that Claire is actually correct in her charge, he feels chagrined. <br />Claire on the other hand considers Simon to be the very epitome of everything she despises in a man. Why then does she feel a flicker of excitement everytime he is near? However Claire has  problems more pressing at hand. After years of waiting for her to marry and present him with a grandchild, Claire's father has decided to take matters into his own hands and marry again. Unfortunately his choice leaves Claire cold. So Claire comes up with the idea of pretending to pay attention to the men in the neighbourhood to deflect her father from his courtship. Again unfortunately for Claire her reputation as the 'terror' of the county does her no good; an indeed the only gentleman who seems to want to be in her company is Simon. So Claire decides to use Simon for her own ends. Simon knows that Claire is up to something, but what? Will Simon and Claire cease their wrangling long enough to sense what draws them to each other? <br />This novel was really entertaining. There are several light comedic moments that will definitely bring forth a chuckle or two; and the plot and characters were developed at a nice steady manner, so that there wasn't any uneven pacing that can sometimes mar a good story. Debbie Raleigh does a very good job of depicting the evolution of Simon from a rakish gentleman of society to someone warmer and who comes to genuinely care for his tenants and dependents. Likewise the evolution of his feelings for Claire: the arc from trying to pay her back for using him to actually acknowleding that he does truly care for her, made for satisfying reading. <br />I enjoyed this first installment very much, and I look forward to reading the other two book in this trilogy. If this book is anything to go by, the next two should make for great reading as well.	2000-12-29
2163812:US	52830980	R1577ZKYTIC7Z	0425176789	719797593	The Squire's Tale: A Dame Frevisse Medieval Mystery	Books	5	11	12	N	N	another brilliant Dame Frevisse mystery novel	Seven years ago, Robert Fenner, a young squire in the service of Sir William Fenner, caught the eye of Lady Blaunche Fenner. Lady Blaunche stood high in Sir William's regard, and so Robert, the younger son of another landless younger son, was given a choice: marry the already twice widowed Lady Blaunche or starvation. Now, in 1444, Robert faces a bitter choice of another sort: war with the Allesleys or going against his strong minded wife's wishes.<br />The Lady Blaunche, has for all these years, retained in her possession lands that should have rightly been returned to her first husband's family, the Allesleys, upon his death. This however Lady Blaunche refused to do and she and Robert have been enjoying the income from that estate all this time. Now however, the Allesleys are demanding the estate back as well as recompsense for all the income lost over the years. Robert would like to resolve the dispute by surrendering the lands, thus avoiding any bloodshed. Lady Blaunche however is passionate in her resolve to hold onto the lands. Trouble for the Fenners however has also arisen from another quarter. Robert and Blaunche have been taking care of a rather rich orphan, Katherine Stretton, and she is now of an age to marry. In fact, the book more or less opens with an attempt by a neighbour to abduct Katherine, and Robert's successful thwarting of the scheme. Lady Blaunche now wants to marry Katherine off to her eldest son, Benedict; Robert however is oppossed to such a scheme, and sends Katherine to St. Frideswide for safety until he can resolve his problems with the Allesleys and negotiate a good marriage for Katherine.<br />And this is how Dame Frevisse finds herself embroiled in the affairs of the Fenners. She would rather spend her time in the nunnery, in prayer and quiet contemplation, especially as it is now near Lent. But when Lady Blaunche arrives with news that it is now safe for Katherine to return, Domina Elisabeth asks Dame Frevisse to accompany Katherinehome. It soon becomes evident that Lady Blaunche has some plan up her sleeve concerning Katherine. Robert has successfully resolved things by promising Katherine's hand in marriage to Allesley's son, and Blaunche is not happy at all. Dame Frevisse is soon caught up in the swirling passions that surround the Fenner family, passions that lead to murder...<br />This suspenseful novel made for engrossing reading. The novel may seem (on the surface anyway) to have been drawn out too much, but this was not so. This book was spun out for just the right length, to tweak your interest and involve you totally in the Fenner family and their doings. And all the characters were so deftly fleshed out that you saw all sides of a character, and so were able to get more involved in the novel -- for example it would be easy to dislike Lady Blaunche, but Margaret Frazer also gives her a vulnerable side that the reader can relate to easily. This novel also gives you a very good idea of how things stood in 15th century England, under a young boy king -- the seemingly calm eventhough there may be a power shift going on behind the scenes. I especially liked the glimpses of  the daily rountine that nuns went through. <br />Margaret Frazer is a masterful tale spinner, and this book is a testament to her brilliance. Definitely a 5 star book.	2000-12-27
2165790:US	52830980	R34NN6VS1VL01B	0441007880	309378718	Scion's Lady	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Scion's Lady	This book is a brilliant sequel to the &quot;Lady in Gil&quot;. I didn't think that Rebecaa Bradley would be able to pull off a secons installment that was as good as, if not better than the &quot;Lady in Gil&quot;, but she has accomplished that task handsomely. This novel is a worthy successor and possesses many of the same qualities that made the &quot;Lady in Gil&quot; so memorable: a good plot that is tautly paced, a prose style that is so lyrical that you actually read every word, and those brilliant flashes of ironic humour that has you in stitches!<br />&quot;Scion's Lady&quot; is another tale of treachery and deception. It's been 6 years since Tig, the scholar hero of the &quot;Lady in Gil&quot;, liberated Gil; (and together with the Lady in Gil) sank the continent of Sher into the ocean; and lost his true love Calla. Nowadays, Tig and his friends, Shree and Angel, spend their time in the archives cataloging and reviewing ancient scrolls. Tig and Shree also spend their nights keeping an eye on the many mushrooming religious cults. Quite suddenly however Tig's rather mundane life takes a turn for the different. First he and Shree are attacked by some professional assassins at one such cult meeting; and then Tig is informed by his brother, the King of Gil, that a marriage has been arranged for Tig with the Princess Rinn of Miishel, a beautiful but unfortunately rather spoilt and highly strung young woman.<br />Miishel seeks an alliance and Tig has been chosen to cement this condedracy. Tig will of course than have to leave Gil and reside with Rinn in Miishel. At first Tig refuses marry Rinn. However the Primate, the power behind the throne, promises to sell the archives unless Tig agrees to the marriage. So in no short order Tig finds himself married and setting sail for Miishel, with only Shree for company. During the voyage however, another attempt is made on Tig's life. Someone is really out to get Tig. But is it a faction form Gil or Miishel?<br />This book was a great read. And there is a wonderful surprise in the book, (I'm not divulging what it is, suffice it to say that it wonderful). The scenes between Tig and Rinn are hilarious! Tig is at his literary best in this sequel -- it is so refreshing to read of a hero who uses his intellect instead of great fighting skills or magic to get out of jams.  I look forward to reading the third installment with great anticipation.	2000-12-25
2170485:US	52830980	R1W3BAGG5NMQHA	0451201973	176533093	Belle's Beau (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Belle's Beau	I found it very difficult to loose myself in this book -- this novel just never took off. <br />The book is a sequel to &quot;Cassandra's Deception&quot;, and center's around Belle's  (Cassandra's twin sister) debut into the London scene. Belle, because of her beauty and vivacity is an instant hit, and is enjoying herself enormously even if she does feel a little hemmed in because of all the rules about 'proper ladylike behaviour'. Lord Adam Ashdon has returned from the wars temporarily in order to find a wife and father (he hopes) an heir before he returns to the fighting. In his heart, however, he carries a memory of Cassandra whom he met while he was convalescing in Bath. And when he first catches sight of Belle, he mistakes her for Cassandra. So heartened is he by his 'find' that he immediately begins his courtship. And so begins the mixup: why is the woman he is courting so different from the woman of his dreams? Belle in the meantime is over the moon with her beau, but how will she feel when she discovers that he has mistaken her for her twin?<br />The whole premise of this novel seemed a little too farfetched to me. How can a man court a woman and yet not really talk to her. Surely at some point, either Belle or Ashdon should have realised his mistake before all the misunderstandings got so out of hand? Also, I didn't buy the romance between the two: Belle comes across as being very young indeed, and in need of more maturity. It seemed to me as if she was more enamoured with the idea of having a much sought after and dashing beau than with Ashdon himself. As for Ashdon, he is in love with the idea of Cassandra for much of the book, and I didn't see how discovering that Belle was Cassandra could change his feelings all that much.<br />Perhaps I'm being unduly harsh, and perhaps it is because I've been reading some really good regency romances lately, but I really had the feeling that I was reading a disaster in the making rather than a 'happily-ever-after' romance. Belle and Ashdon should never have married or at least not so soon. Afterall a shared love of riding does not a marriage make!	2000-12-19
2172507:US	52830980	R69PXN5YUTJDC	0451201981	734492971	Captain Cupid Calls the Shots (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Captain Cupid Calls the Shots	A darker tale than usual.<br />Captain Alexander Shelbourne, Cupid to his friends, is home from the wars. War weary, and feeling incredibly low, he accepts the invitation of a fellow officer and friend, Valentine Wharton, to return to Valentine's home for a rest. Almost as soon as the men enter the village of Eden, they meet Miss Penny Foster. Shelbourne is drawn to Penny's aura of lonliness and vulnerabilty. Valentine however is both dismissive and rude. Apparently he and Penny share a past. According to Valentine, Penny is graceless and wanton. Shelbourne however is unwilling to believe the worst of Penny, even when it becomes evident that she is bringing up a little girl, Felicity, that everyone believes to be  her own illegitimate child.<br />In spite of Valentine's malicious innuendos, Shelbourn goes out of his way to befriend Penny and to make her believe in his good intentions. He also tries hard to restore Penny's tarnished reputation in Eden. Unfortunately all this comes to naught when Valentine makes Felicity's acquaintanc for the first time and realises that she could be his child. Then what Penny has feared all this years comes to pass: Valentine demands that Penny surrender Felicity to him. How will Penny cope with this ultimatum? Will she be able to give up Felicity? And what of Shelbourne, and their budding romance?<br />The first part of this book was rather good: a young woman with a tarnished reputation bringing up a little girl who might or might not be her own; a dashing captain who sees past the gossip to the real woman at the heart of the controversy; and a drunken lout who spews spite left, right and center. The lonliness and isolation that Penny faces through no fault of her own is deftly handled; as well the feelings of remorse and pain that Shelbourne suffers because of all the killing he had to do during the war. But once Valentine comes to realise that Felicity may be his daughter, this novel sinks into melodrama, and rather mundane melodrama at that! My sympathies were with Shelbourne as Penny spent all her time dithering about Felicity and Valentine. Also, there is a sense of indecision where Valentine's character is concerned: is he just another pathetic drunk or a weak-kneed villian? I got the feeling that the author couldn't make up her mind about this character, and it shows!<br />I give this novel 3 stars for the first 3/4 of the book. The last bit of the book could have done with a serious rethink.	2000-12-18
2175628:US	52830980	R68SJ85BIBMBV	0747274037	259279959	The Traitor of ST. Giles	Books	5	18	20	N	N	the Traitor of St. Giles	Another chilling tale of murder and mayhem in the medieval West  Country mystery series featuring the Keeper of the King's Peace, Sir Baldwin Furnshill, and Bailiff Simon Puttock. This time political affairs of the country frame the mystery. <br />Edward II's favourite, Hugh Despenser, has been using his favoured position to steal and intimidate. The Marcher lords, tired and fed up with Despenser's corruption, have risen up in arms and declared Despenser to be an enemy of the King. They then marched all the way to London to see the King and demand that he exile the entire Despenser family. Despenser's allies and enemies alike not immediately involved with the Marcher lords actions have all been monitoring the situation. With whom should they throw their lot? This is what brings Sir Gilbert of Carlisle, a former Knight Templar, now one of Despenser's men, to Tiverton. He's not sure of what he should do: whether he should remain loyal to Despenser and probably face exile in some foreign land, or if he should offer his loyalties to another lord. To this end he decides to sound out Lord Hugh de Courtenay at Tiverton, to see if he will throw his lot with  Despenser or with Despenser's enemies; and also to ask his opinion on what de Courtenay thinks will happen. <br />However not everyone's mind is on the political goings on of the land. In Tiverton, the rape and murder of Joan Carter has unsettled everyone's peace of mind. Her murderer is believed to be Philip Dyne, who managed to escape the posse and seek sanctuary within the church. As a self confessed felon, he must now promise to leave England, never to return, or else forfeit his life. Joan's family, bent on revenge and seeking their own brand of justice, are swift to follow Dyne as he makes his way down the highway out of England.<br />Meanwhile, Sir High de Courtenay is holding a feast at his castle in Tiverton, and has invited all his men to the celebration. This brings Sir Baldwin and his wife Jeanne, as well Simon Puttock to Tiverton. During the feast, news of a grissily find sends Baldwin, Simon and the somewhat corrupt Coroner, into the forest to investigate. There they find the badly beaten and decapitated body of Philip Dyne, as well the body of Sir Gilbert (he had been swiftly, and cleanly killed with a single stroke of a sword) and that of one of his hunting dogs (also killed with a sword stroke). The Coroner keen to wrap things up swiftly, and hoping to curry favour with those in more powerful positions, decides that Dyne murdered Sir Gilbert, and was in turn executed by members of Joan's family. This would make Dyne's execution legal, as he had committed a further crime by killing Sir Gilbert. Joan's family agree to back the Coroner's theory. However Sir Baldwin is incensed. He wants justice for his fellow Templar, and cannot see how Dyne could have successfully murdered a man trained a combat and yet fall victim to the blade of a couple of fat merchants! To him the whole story is preposterous! And so Sir Baldwin, ably assissited by Simon Puttock starts poking around in Tiverton, hoping to uncover the truth of what really happened.<br />This series keeps getting better and better. And this latest mystery is quite the page turner! With each new person Baldwin and Simon interview, new evidence comes to light that paints quite a different picture. The novel rich in historical detail -- the dilemma that many faced whether to support their King thereby also supporting the corrupt and avaricious Despensers, or to support those against the Despensers and thereby opposing their annointed King -- is deftly related. At the same time, the book also paints quite a vivid picture of daily life in 14th century England. <br />A rich and complex mystery that truly does deserve an excellent rating.	2000-12-15
2177392:US	52830980	R2HP96977IBY7C	0821767380	399987226	The Christmas Charm (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	a charming first installment	This is a charming first installment in a trilogy featuring the Addington siblings, Alexander, Adriana and Amy. The Addington siblings are half Italian, and have spent nearly all their lives in Italy. The French occupation of Florence however causes the Addington family into seclusion and Hugh Addington to send his only son, Alexander, to England, so that he will not be conscripted into the French army. Thus Alexander becomes the first of the Addington siblings to leave the nest.<br />&quot;The Christmas Charm&quot; however is Adriana's story. The death of both her parents, the end of the Napoleanic Wars, and poverty all combine to make it imperative that Adriana and Amy finally leave Italy for England. It is decided by the sisters' relatives that Adriana will live with her godmother, Lady Margaret, while Amy will live with their aunt and cousin and be a companion to her cousin Helen, during Helen's London debut.<br />What Adriana doesn't know is that Lady Margaret has another purpose in mind for her. Lady Margaret has for years been trying to marry off her somewhat bookish grandson, William, the Viscount Borland with no success. And she firmly believes that Adriana with her striking looks will finally prise William away from his library. The first meeting between Adriana and William as a result goes very badly. William, who's had his fill of the empty headed young women that his grandmother has tried to foist on him over the years, is brusque and reserved when he first meets Adriana and is told that he is expected to accompany her to Scotland for Lady Margaret's Christmas party. Adrina, not knowing that she is a pawn in an old scheme, thinks that William is rude and unmannerly. However a series of accidents and adventures -- from rescuing a badly used child apprentice to being held up by a violent highwayman, throw the young people together, and causes both to change their minds about each other. Adriana comes to see the kindly and generous side of the reserved William; and William comes to realise that Adriana is not just another empty headed chit bent on marriage but rather, a very warm-hearted and generous young woman. But can William put aside his misgivings about marriage enough to consider life with Adriana? Will Lady Margaret's plans and hopes come to naught?<br />I enjoyed reading this book -- just the right accompaniment to an afternoon tea -- and I'm looking forward to reading the next installment in the trilolgy. I just wish I didn't have to wait a couple of months!	2000-12-13
2177627:US	52830980	R35AHZT6G1828D	0425177769	80796596	Solace for a Sinner (Isaac of Gerona)	Books	3	20	20	N	N	Solace for a Sinner	Another installment in the Issac of Girona series.<br />This mystery is set in the 14th century in Girona, Spain, and features Issac of Girona, a Jewish physician, as amateur sleuth. The heat fo the summer is keeping Issac and his assistant, Yusuf very busy as everyone, even the Bishop of Girona, is suffering the effects of the summer heat. Unfortunately it's not his patients's health that is occupying Issac's mind, but murder.<br />It looks as if a con artist has come to Girona in hopes of conning some of the wealthier merchants of the city into buying a cup he claims is the Holy Grail. Gualter Gutierrez, a merchant that deals with fine leather, believing that the Grail will bring him more food fortune, sells all his asserts to raise the necessary cash to but the Grail. Unfortunately he is murdered and all his money is stolen, thus leaving his remaining family quite destitute. However it is Gualter's son, Marti, that causes Issac to become more involved in the doings of the Christians in his city. Marti gets it into his head that Astruch, the Jewish banker who had lent Gaulter some of the money for this failed enterprise, was somehow involved in his father's murder, and drunkenly begins to procalim this about the city. This of course dismays Issac -- it is quite a serious thing to accuse a Jew of killing a Christian -- and so in spite of his rabbi's disapproval, Issac decides to investigate matters before Marti's accusations against Astruch is taken seriously by anyone. <br />Who could have murdered Gaulter? Was it the conman? Or was it someone else with a more nefarious purpose? Issac will have to sift to much before he finds out the truth about who murdered Gaulter and why.<br />This is an interesting novel, and Caroline Roe does a wonderful job of evoking the feel of 14th century Spain, esp the politics and intrigue of the times. Another nice point was that she fleshes out more of the peripheral characters that surround Issac, thus making the novel more interesting and involving the reader more in the goings on in the novel. Also, I think that Caroline Roe has struck gold in her creation Issac the physician -- here is a chracter that does not allow the petty opinions of others to rule his judgement in his pursuit of justice. An enjoyable installment in an interesting series.	2000-12-13
2181804:US	52830980	R1USMP7UN38MTC	0380977354	800695552	Mulch Ado About Nothing (Jane Jeffry Mysteries, No. 12)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	What happened to the mystery?	I love this series (and book) for it's humour and warmth. Jill Churchill's humourous look at the life of a single mother (Jane Jeffry) with three teenage children, a dog and two cats, is brilliant. And I love her portrayal of the obssesively neat and in control Shelley (Jane's neighbour and best friend), which juxtaposes nicely with Jane's more relaxed take on things. The friendship and chemsitry between these two characters is wonderful. I think I'd be quite accurate in stating that Jill Churchill has probably created one of the best female detective partnerships around. Having enthused about the series, I must say that I was somewhat disappointed in the mystery this time around. What happened to it? I had to read much of the book twice to see if I had missed something the first time around that would make sense of the resolution. The Jill Jeffry mystery series is one of the best &quot;cosy&quot; murder mysery series around. However this latest installment is not one of Jill Churchill's better works. This novel rates well on warmth and humour, but not very well as a mystery. However, I do like this series so I will give the next Jill Jeffry mystery novel a go.	2000-12-09
2182399:US	52830980	RPFZ5V2IA2IK2	0312266367	957122938	Prey to All	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Prey to All	Another great Trish Maguire mystery novel. And although this third installment in the series lacks a little the vinegar of the first two, it still makes for compelling reading.<br />Trish is persuaded by her friend, Anna Grayling, to take a look at the case against Deb Gibbert. Four years ago, Deb was convicted of murdering her very sick father in a fit of anger. The whole case against Deb seemed to hinge on the somewhat hostile evidence provided by her father's attending physician, Dr. Foscutt, and Deb's sister, the &quot;perfect&quot; Cordelia. Both Dr. Foscutt and Cordelia painted Deb as a very angry, violent and unsympathetic indiviual. Even Deb's barrister  believed her to be guilty of the crime. However Anna believes differently. She believes that Deb was convicted on circumstancial evidence; and that the prejudiced testimony of Cordelia and the good doctor, together with Deb's barrister's inept handling just added more weight to the Crown's shaky case. Anna is an independent TV producer who wants to do a documentary on Deb's case, and she asks Trish to take a look at the case -- to provide legal advise, as well as to see if she could help Deb in any way.<br />This case hits home with Trish, esp as her estranged father is now in hospital, seriously ill. And as Trish begins to read the trial transcripts and take a look at the evidence, she becomes convinced that Deb was short changed. So, out of a sense of seing justice done, Trish begins to sift through the evidence to see what she can further dig up. And then one of Deb's strongest advocates is shot in front of his house. Could Trish's investigation have been a trigger to murder? Trish is afraid but she is resolved to see the case to its end and to obtain justice for Deb.<br />This book was compelling reading. As with the other two Trish Maguire mysteries, the reader is treated to a look at the British judicial system -- a system that seems to have as many problems as any other. The chilling reality that thefate of anyone facing trail is truly in the hands of the lawyer handling the case really hits home with this mystery! Trish seems to have mellowed a little in this novel, but she hasn't lost her edge (thank goodness). I'm definitely looking forward to the next Trish Maguire mystery.	2000-12-09
2191680:US	52830980	RSZMY79OPCURQ	0451201663	103727513	The Notorious Widow	Books	4	22	23	N	N	something a little different	This novel is not the ususal light regency romance fare featuring a London season, clothes and beaux; rather it is a dark tale that tells of how a young woman and her family find themselves at the mercy of a malicious and deranged man.<br />Catherine Parrish incurrs the wrath of Jasper Rankin when she rebuffs his amorous attentions. In retaliation, Jasper spreads vicious rumours, painting Catherine as a degenerate and a wanton. Everyone seems only all too willing to believe the tales, and soon Catherine, along with her sisters and brother, find themselves effectively ostracised by the &quot;good&quot; people of Exeter.<br />The Earl of Rockhurst is an old school friend's of William, Catherine's brother. And out of friendship, he agrees to look into these accusations and to try and expose them as the lies that actually are. But he soon finds his work cut out for him. Jasper Rankin seems, outwardly anyway, to be all that is pleasing and honourable. And everyone seems content to believe the worst of Catherine and her family. But as the Earl begins to look into Rankins background, some rather disquieting tales come to light that point to misdeeds far more serious than the spreading of malicious rumours. Will the Earl be able to expose Rankin as a liar, salvage Catherine's reputation and keep her from harm?<br />This novel was riverting reading -- I kept expecting Rankin to explode into one final really horrific act of violence. But Allison Lane showed her mastery here and handled the final denouncement perfectly. As I noted earlier this is not the usual comedy of manners; indeed the romance betwen the Earl and Catherine plays second fiddle to the darker subplot. However, if you are looking for something not in the usual vein, and that deals with the darker psyche of people, this novel will definitely satisfy.	2000-12-01
2194471:US	52830980	R3KZ5673Q7HNB0	0312265891	899769694	Face Down Under the Wych Elm	Books	5	10	11	N	N	an engrossing read	In my opinion, this is one of the best historical mystery series currently in publication. Susanna, Lady Appleton, is an inspiring and wonderful addition to the ranks of female investigators -- she's independent, brave and possesses a strong sense of justice. And Kathy Lynn Emerson has created a believable set of circumstances that allows for Susanna to maintain her independence and to conduct her affairs as she sees fit in Elizabethan England. Susanna is a widow and rich in her own right and (most importantly) possesses no male relatives who could try to curb and restrain her. This allows her to pretty much do as she pleases within reason. And when it is brought to her attention that one of her husband's former lovers, Constance Crane is now facing charges of murder and witchcraft, Susanna, who had in a previous adventure been similarly charged, feels that she must to do something to help the woman. <br />From her previous experience, she knows that women are especially vulnerable to such charges because the burden of proof lies with the accused rather than with the accuser and that such accusations are quite frequently grounded in superstitious beliefs and fantasies, not on fact and tangible evidence. Not believing in witchcraft herself, Susanna realises that she must look into the deaths more closely in order to prove Constance and her cousin Lucy innocent. And she is determined to prove that the Crane cousins have been wrongfully accused. But as she starts her investigation, Susanna comes to realise that there is something quite sinister afoot, and that if her suspicions are correct, then two innocent women are being framed for some more nefarious reason than fear and superstition. But can Susanna prove the Crane cousins's innocence, and before she herself is charged with witchcraft herself or killed?<br />This is a well written and tautly paced novel. And there are enough suspects with tenous claims to guilt to keep you guessing as to who the culprit is and what the motif could be. The pecarious fate that Constance and Lucy find themselves in is spot on. Kathy Lynn Emerson does a very good job in depicting the fear and the frustration and the anger that Constance and Lucy feel. She also does a very good job at making Elizabethan England come alive.<br />A brilliant installment in a wonderful series. I just wish that Kathy Lynn Emerson could write two or three Susanna Appleton mysteries a year!	2000-11-29
2194543:US	52830980	R14JNG81WAFK0E	0399146482	331239745	The Color of Death: A Sir John Fielding Mystery	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The Color of Death	Another brilliant instalment in the Sir John Fielding &amp; Jeremy Proctor mystery series. As usual Bruce Alexander provides us with an intirguing mystery novel with another in depth look at 18th century England and the judicial system of the time.<br />In this latest Sir John Fielding adventure, a highly organised group of rather violent thieves are terrorising the wealthier inhabitants of London. And when a servant is murdered in cold blood, Sir John Fielding and the Bow Street Runners are sent for. During the course of the investigations, it comes to light that the murderous thieves were all black men. This throws Sir John a little as he has hitherto had very little to do with the coloured community of London and so is a little unsure as to how to proceed. However on the way home from this crime, Sir John is shot at by a black man. And because of his wounds is forced to delegate more of the investigation to his able aide, Jeremy Proctor.<br />The next day brings news of another violent theft. However this time doubt is thrown as to whether all the men in the gang are actually black. A witness claims to recognise one of the gang and claims that he is definitely not coloured. However before this lead can be properly investigated, the owner of the latest house to be burgalarised identifies a friend of Jeremy's as the leader of the criminal gang. Sir John and Jeremy will have to work very hard to sift through all the evidence and to discard fact from prejudice, especially as the accused has decided not to cooperate with Sir John on principle.<br />This mystery novel was a riverting read with well developed characters and an ingenious plot. Definitely deserving a five star rating.	2000-11-29
2198047:US	52830980	R21JQHJFGAI6RG	0312873727	168651155	A Mystery of Errors	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Mystery Of Errors	This is a rather good entry to the historical mystery genre -- esp if you enjoy mysteries set in Elizabethan England. I do however have one bone to pick: I do wish that the publicity people would stop comparing every book that has anything to do with Renaissance England and Shakespeare to &quot;Shakespeare in Love&quot;. Especially when the comparision is based on the most tenuous of threads. &quot;Shakespeare in Love&quot; was a well acted, well written and well directed movie, but it was a fluff piece; &quot;A Mystery of Errors&quot; is not a fluffy mystery-novel at all. <br />Symington Smythe leaves his home and his middle-class but almost penniless existence to go to London in hopes of joining the ranks of the actors in The Queen's Men. En route he meets the dashing and mysterious highwayman, Black Billy; and the similarly stage struck and budding playwright, William Shakespeare. Once in London, as there are few acting jobs to be had, both Smythe and Shakespeare obtain jobs as ostlers at The Toad and The Badger, all the while hoping that they will somehow manage to break into the magical world of The Queen's Men. And this is how they find themselves embroiled in the troubles of Elizabeth Darcie.<br />Elizabeth Darcie is the only daughter of a wealthy merchant, and who is, much to her chagrin, about to be married off to a young man of the gentry and of some small prominence at court, Anthony Gresham. Elizabeth is both dismayed and angered at her parents's apparent lack of concern over her wishes; and so she is much buoyed when after a conversation with Gresham at the playhouse, she discovers that he has no wish to marry her at all. Imagine her surprise when a few days later Gresham turns up at her home and claims that not only has he never met her but that he wishes to continue with the engagement! Elizabeth is perplexed and angered by Gresham's behaviour and turns to Smythe (whom she met at the playhouse and was very much attracted to) for help in discovering what is afoot.<br />While this mystery novel does not possess a dark and intricate plot, it is a well written and entertaining puzzle that will keep you guessing. What exactly is Gresham up to? Will Elizabeth be sacrificed to her father's ambitions? And how does Black Billy fit in to all this? This novel does not measure up quite in weight to Edward Marston's Elizabethan mystery series featuring Nicholas Bracewell, but it is an enjoyable read nonetheless. Simon Hawke is successful in giving the reader a glimpse of the political and religious intrigue that was taking place behind all the fanfare of Elizabethan England; and I liked his portrayal of William Shakespeare immensely.<br />All in all a very enjoyable read.	2000-11-26
2205585:US	52830980	R25VGXUMFNXFLX	0312266278	900326851	Other People's Rules	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Other People's Rules	This is a rich, dark novel, brilliantly written by Julia Hamilton, in a style that is reminiscent of Nancy Mitford and L. P. Hartley. Like Mitford, Julia Hamilton presents us with the insular and enclosed lives of the British upper class; all the while dissecting it with flashes of ironic humour -- coming across Margaret Thatcher describes as &quot;Mad Maggie&quot; is something I shall always personally treasure! And like L.P. Hartley, Julia Hamilton presents us with a sympathetic protagonist, Lucy Diamond, whom we first meet as a unsure sixteen year old, the outsider to the magical world of Gatehouse, who seems to absorb the unpleasantness and the secrets that swirl around without actually registering them until too late.<br />This is not a mystery novel, it is more of a psychological novel. Almost from the very beginning we are told that the murder of Katie Gresham probably did take place on Gatehouse land, the home of Ivar Gatehouse, the Earl Gatehouse. Ivar Gatehouse is one of the rising stars of Magaret Thatcher's government. He is rich, charming and handsome. Unfortunately for Ivar, his family seems to be completely screwed up. Luca Diamond is introduced to the rich, glamourous world of the Gatehouses through Ivar's youngest daughter, Sarah. And in spite of Lucy's mother's reservations, Lucy is completely seduced by that world. And it isn't too long before Lucy is seduced by Ivar as well. And this is where young Katie Gresham enters the novel. Unlike Lucy, Katie is part of Ivar's upper class world; and unlike Sarah and Lucy, Katie is no insecure teenager. Ivar seems to be completely taken with Katie much to Lucy's and Sarah's chagrin. And then after a party one night, Katie disappears. Her body is never found; and when a sociopath who has been kidnapping and torturing young girls to death is caught, Katie's disappearance is tied to him as well. However years later, on his deathbed, he claims innocence over Katie's death. The police reopen the case and this time around the focus is on Ivar and all the unsavory rumours concerning his penchant for teenage girls and his infamous murderous rages. Lucy Diamond, now a successful divorce lawyer is again drawn to the happenings at Gatehouse. But it takes an almost tragedy before Lucy is able to look objectively at what happened all those years ago and break the wall of silence that the Gatehouses and their kind have constructed to keep the outsiders at bay.<br />This novel is superb on so many levels: the brilliant manner in which the authour has layered all the characters and all the events; the clean lines along which the plot is written -- no extraneous characters or events here; and most of all the portrayal of the deeply troubled and confused protagonist, Lucy Diamond. Another point I appreciated was that Ivar Gatehouse, even by the end of the novel, remains a question mark -- perhaps monsters should remain that way so that the horrors of what they have perpetrated remain in place. One other thing that struck me all over again while reading this novel was how similar the world of the upperclass was to that of the village working class -- both are close-knit, insular, deeply suspicious of outsiders, and both are liberally peopled with eccentric characters.<br />This is not a novel with a deeply intricate plot. Rather, the story is a sadly simple one of what happens when there is a sociopath in your life. It is a rich and dark tale, liberally peopled with memorable characters. Definitely a novel that is worth reading and rereading.	2000-11-19
2207837:US	52830980	R2AD2SZLHCU2VO	0312206097	461702204	Set in Darkness: An Inspector Rebus Novel (Inspector Rebus Mysteries)	Books	4	26	26	N	N	a page turner	I've only read a few of Ian Rankin's Rebus mysteries, and this latest installment in the series is the best Inspector Rebus mystery novel that I've read so far. This is a satisying read on so many levels -- the plot is quite convoluted but not in a meandering way so that you loose all interest and start skimming chapters to get to the meaty bits. No, it's complex and intriguing and keeps your attention firmly hooked on what's taking place between the pages. Ian Rankin truly is a gifted story teller, and quite a lyrical writer. I found myself rereading several paragrahs over and over again so as to better apprecaite his prose. And he is truly a master at depicing Scotland in all its grit and glory, past and present, architecturally and politically. I felt as if I was walking the streets of Edinburgh myself, trying to unravel all the strands of this mystery.<br />DCS Watson, Rebus's boss has sidelined him to the Policing of Parliament Liasion Committee (PPLC) in the vain hope of keeping Rebus out of trouble and out of his (Watson's) hair. However while on a tour of the Queensbury House that is to restored so as to serve as an administrative wing to the new Scottish parliament, the workers unearth the remains of a man in a sealed off fire place. Rebus of course jumps at the chance to do some real police work, even if it means investigating a 20 year old crime and having to put up with and work with DI Linford, the police commissioner's current blue-eyed boy. But even before that investigation can take off another body is found on the Queensbury construction site: that of a prospective MP, Roddy Grieve.<br />In the meantime DC Siobhan Clarke, is doing some investigating of her own. There have been a series of assaults carried out by two men on women who frequent single's bars. To her frustration and chagrin, Clarke is having very little luck with this investigation. And on her way home one night, she walks onto a suicide scene. As the only senoir detective on that scene, Clarke is given the task of investigationg the suicide of Chris Mackie, a homeless man with apparently four hundred thousand pounds in his bank account. Why would a man with that much money be living on the streets? And why would he commit suicide?<br />As the various police officers begin to dig into their different mysteries, the reader will of course suspect that all these disparate strands will somehow connect. But what could a 20 year old corpse, an up and coming politician and a rich street person have in common? Half the enjoyment of this novel was trying to figure out the connection -- if there even was one, that is.<br />This mystery novel will probably make it onto nearly everyone's list of top ten mystery novels of the year. It's beautifully written and has a good attention grabbing plot, and is very atmospheric. A very good read!	2000-11-17
2211431:US	52830980	R34IMJVHIM8F7H	0749003189	359191267	The Salton Killings (A&B Crime)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The best of the series	This is the first Chief Inspector Woodend/Sgt Bob Rutter mystery and it is definitely the best of the series. This dark and intriguing novel is set in the early 1960s and makes for very compelling reading. <br />When the strangled body of teenager Diane Thorburn is found, the local police force decide to ask for 'outside' help -- just in-case things go horribly pear shaped, the people from Scotland Yard will get the blame and not the local force of Salton. Chief Inspector Woodend, also known as Cloggin'-it Charlie, is sent to handle things. Woodend is not exactly the flavor of the month at Scotland Yard; in fact more than one of his superiors hope that he will really fail at his task, so that they will be able to justify getting rid of him altogether. To this end, they have provided him with a new sergeant, Bob Rutter. Rutter is part of the new guard: a young man of good education, who believes that investigating crime is a matter of employing the various scientific skills of observation, evidence and criminal profiling. He is appalled at being teamed up with Woodend who prefers using old fashioned investigating skills, local knowledge/gossip and Charles Dickens's novels as a guide.<br />But as the investigation takes flight Rutter begins to see why Woodend's ways garner results. Because this unfortunate murder seems not to be the first of its kind. Before long, they discover that over the years there have been a spate of unfortunate 'deaths' -- all of teenage girls and going all the way back to 1942. Woodend and Rutter seem to have a serial killer on their hands! There seems to be no dearth of suspects; and the people of the town with their own secrets to protect are reluctant to come forward with useful information. And Woodend and Rutter begin to fear that they may run out of time before the killer strikes again.<br />This was an engrossing mystery that maintained its grip on me till the very last page. The later mysteries in this series are good too, however &quot;The Salton Killings&quot; is definitely the best of the lot and is a treat that should not be missed.	2000-11-14
2214896:US	52830980	R2XBTIJR8PUT06	0821767518	26136320	A Compromising Situation (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A regency romance for grown ups	I rather liked this book. It reminded me alot of the kinds of plots and characters that novelists like Jane Austen and Maria Edgeworth made famous. <br />Maeve Midden is hired by Lord Rothe to be a governess to his hoydenish sixteen year old niece, Clarissa. Maeve accepts the position with many reservations: Lord Rothe is too high-handed and seems to have a special talent for setting Clarissa's back up; Clarissa's mother seems to have lost all interest in life with the recent death of her husband, Lord Rothe's brother; and Clarissa is absolutely against the idea of having a governess at her 'advanced' age. However Maeve senses a kind of vulnerability beneath both Lord Rothe's and Clarissa's outward facade, and so Maeve strives to bring uncle and niece closer together and to try and make them understand each other a little better. What Maeve does not bargain for is that she and her employer would be attracted to each other, or that the unexpected kindness and sensitivity that Lord Rothe displays towards her would crack the hard shell Maeve had been careful to cultivate around her heart. Both Maeve and Rothe have secret sorrows and disappointments in their pasts that have coloured their lives. Perhaps it is this that draws them to each other. But can anything good come from it? Afterall lords do not marry governesses, especially ones with tainted histories.<br />This is truly a tale for adults. Shannon Donnelly has created a truly honourable and adult hero in Lord Rothe. In spite of his growing attraction for Maeve, not once does he press his attentions on her. Rothe treats her with honour and respect. There seems to be a kind of revolution going on in the romance world, and I for one am all for it! Finally more and more novelists are actually writing about the nice guys!! Spolit rakes are a fun read for a while but every now and then it's nice to read of men who are actually nice and who are not secondary characters and who do end up with the heroine instead of playing second fiddle to the rake! The ending is a bit rushed, and I think that it might have been a stronger novel if Shannon Donnelly had not introduced the villian at all instead of having him come in for the last three chapters, but that it just my own bias.<br />A satisfying novel. I will definitely keep an eye out for the next novel that Shannon Donnelly writes.	2000-11-10
2217785:US	52830980	R2X4YKH8SZERPO	0892967161	801588825	One Virgin Too Many (The Eleventh Marcus Didius Falco Novel)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	a brilliant read	I love historical mysteries. I esp love historical mysteries set in ancient Rome. And this Lindsey Davis mystery featuring the intrepid Falco is a winner -- a brilliantly intriguing plot and written with the wit , charm and humour that Ms Davis is famous for.<br />This latest Falco mystery has religion as its central theme. As a reward for services rendered to the empire, Falco has been rewarded with a new official position: Procurator to the Sacred Poultry. And since could mean social advancement which he is most anxious to achieve, Falco is anxious to perform his duties to the best of his abilities. Therefore he has little time for the precocious Gaia Laelia when she comes to him with the story that one of her relatives is out to kill her. Falco thinks that he has Gaia pegged: a spoilt, young child who is bored and has too much time on her hands. Falco has too much going on in his life right then: not only does he have new responsibilities but he must also keep an eye on his sister, Maia, and her newly fatherless brood. Especially when it looks as if Falco's mother has decided to promote a match between Maia and Anacrites, someone Falco dislikes beyond reason. So, he dimisses Gaia's concerns and sends her away. Unfortunately Gaia has been slated to become a vestal virgin, and when she disappears a few days later, Falco is called in by Vespasian himself to investigate the matter, much to Gaia's family's chagrin. Filled with guilt, Falco is determined to find Gaia alive in spite of her family's interference and lack of concern.<br />In the meantime, Falco has also gotten involved in another investigation involving Helena's brother, Aelianus. Aelianus is hoping to be invited to join the priesthood of the Arval Brothers. While at a celebration however, Aelianus stumbles over a corpse. But when Aelianus and Falco go back to the villa to investigate, the body is gone. Later, the priests try to pass off the death as an accidental one. But Aelianus and Falco have their doubts.<br />What exactly is the connection between both mysteries? Very little except that Gaia's family seem to be at the centre of both. In this latest adventure Falco finds himself delving into the various aspects of religious life. There are too many taboos and too many people in positions of power with toucy sensibilities. Will Falco be able to solve the mysteries with his life and new job in one piece? Only Lindsey Davis can weave together a story with plots that seeminly have little to do with each other and yet come together in such a way that will keep you marvelling at the feat. <br />A brilliant mystery, written with great elan. Definitely a 'must read'.	2000-11-08
2217937:US	52830980	R1DPU1KBM95G0	0061014346	542686910	The Chance	Books	3	20	21	N	N	The Chance	This novel makes for a very good, fun light reading. Edith Layton gives us a very well matched pair in Rafe Dalton and Brenna Ford. Forced to marry because of the malicious rumours that seemed to have swept London and Shropshire, Rafe and Brenna nonetheless step up to meet their future together with courage and good humour. A refreshing change from most plots that would have either the hero or heroine sulking for half the book while one hapless spouse soldiers on with patience! Both Rafe and Brenna are sensitive and gallant and bring out the best in each other. And reading along and seeing Rafe come realise what a gem he has in Brenna makes for very satisfying reading.<br />Ms Layton's greatest accomplishment in this novel however is the wonderous manner in which she has fleshed out Annabelle's character. Is she the villainess of the piece or just another misguided spoilt beauty who will no doubt find redemption in a later book? Annabelle swings between vulnerability and manipulativeness that keeps you debating this point right up till the very end of the book. Once before she felt exposed to the ton because she showed her singleminded fixation for Damon Ryder. The degree of humiliation and chagrin she felt was deep when Damon married someone else. Now she not about to become the object of pity again just because she has 'lost' Rafe to Brenna. Never mind that she was the root of all the rumours that brought their marriage about! And even though much of the humiliating scrutiny she undergoes comes about chiefly because of her manipulative and very spoilt and unpleasant behaviour, I still came away feeling a little sorry for her and hoping that there may be a book somewhere down the road where she undergoes some kind of epihany and becomes a much nicer person.<br />A satisfying read.	2000-11-07
2218584:US	52830980	RCJ8RK18FIJT3	0786220422	338005426	Death Comes for Desdemona (Five Star First Edition Romance Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Death Comes For Desdemona	I do so hope that there are more Kate Ketterling mysteries in the wings. I enjoyed reading this light mystery novel very, very much. And while it does not tax the 'grey matter' much to figure out the villian of the piece, this book still makes for highly entertaining reading.<br />Kate and her parents are currently residing in London where Kate has been hired to play the 'hoyden' roles in Kemble's troupe at Covent Garden. Kate is enjoying herself tremendously working with the other actors and also watching the great Sarah Siddons perform. If only she didn't have to come into contact so much with Nell Stanford, a highly unpleasnt actress given to violent outbursts of anger for which Betty, Nell's hapless maid, chiefly suffers the effects of. After one such unpleasant outburst however, Betty is found in Nell's changing room strangled. The Bow Street Runners pass off Betty's death as a robbery gone wrong. However a few nights later, Nell is found dead in the same changing room, likewise strangled. The Runners see no connection between the two deaths. However Kate is sure that there is one, and motivated by the need to bring Betty's murderer to justice, Kate inveighs her admirer Archibald Islington to help her discover who the murderer is. This adventure takes Kate and Archie from the green room in Covent Garden into the brutal world of boxing. Whatever did Betty and Nell know or possess that could have merited their deaths? Kate is determined to solve this mystery even if throws her directly into the murderer's path.<br />A really fun read made all the more enjoyable by the two chief characters, Kate and Archie. Archie esp blossoms from an indolent young aristrocrat bent on setting Kate up as his mistress to a likeable young man full of generousity, warmth and intelligence. As for Kate, what is there not to like? Ms Pykare has given us a heroine full of intelligence, compassion and charm.I look forward to the next Kate Kettering mystery with great anticipation.	2000-11-07
2222433:US	52830980	R1CWTWBIWZIPPJ	0380977729	276042014	Sugarplum Dead (Death on Demand Mysteries, No. 12)	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Sugarplum Dead	It's the Christmas season, and Annie Darling should be knee deep in getting her store, Death On Demand, ready for the store's annual Christmas party, and for all those lovely  Christmas shoppers. Instead of which she find's herself caught up in a murder investigation that involves her estranged father (whom she's sworn never to speak to again) and his stepdaughter. And to top all that, her mother-in-law seems to have finally turned the corner into full flown dementia and is now hanging out at graveyards, talking to dead husbands! It certainly doesn't feel like Christmas. Perhaps Halloween has come around again to Broward's Rock?<br />It all starts off when ex-movie queen, Marguerite Dumaney Ladson, decides to invite all her remaining family over for a Christmas celebration. She then plans to inform them that she is donating all her money to Dr. Emory Swanson for psychic research. Marguerite's sister, Happy, is not too pleased about this. And has come up with a plan to stop her sister. However Happy also has a problem of her own: her daughter, Rachel, is dating a young man Happy is not too keen on. So Happy invites her ex-husband, Pudge Laurance, over to help her make Rachel see sense. And that's how Annie gets involved in the goings-on at the Ladosn mansion. At first, Annie is reluctant to have anything to do with the father who deserted her mother and her. But she allows herself to be persuaded to give Pudge another chance. And in the process, Annie becomes quite close with Rachel. <br />Things are not quite working out to Happy's satisfaction. Neither Pudge nor Annie support her in her effort to keep Rachel and her young man apart. Also the atmosphere at the mansion is poisonous with everyone  up at arms over Marguerite's decision to give all her money to Dr. Swanson. However everyone is shocked when Happy of all people is found murdered. The police close in on Pudge as the most likely suspect; but the evidence seems to point to Rachel. Annie is sure that neitherof them committed the murder. However it is not until another murder is committed that Annie begins to understand what going on at the Ladson mansion, and why someone would committ murder in order to keep things as they are.<br />This is a nice cosy murder -- not quite as engrossing as the first few Annie Darling mysteries which were, in my opinion, absolutely brilliant. With this novel, I felt that a couple of the side plots got in the way at times; and I'd have liked it better if a couple of characters -- the Ladson siblings in particular -- were developed a bit more. Other than that, I enjoyed reading this novel.	2000-11-03
2223724:US	52830980	RSMPHQR7RMKKA	0821769081	661951665	Lord Nightingale's Christmas (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Lord Nightingale's Christmas	This is the last installment in the Lord Nightingale books, and Judith Lansdowne finishes this series in an appropriately high note.<br />This novel takes up where &quot;Lord Nightingale's Triumph&quot; leaves off. Lady Alice is spending time at Willowsweep getting to know the father she never knew she had, the Duke of Sotherland. As the novel opens, Lady Alice's demented grandmother, Lady Vermont, has inveigled a male relative (he is not named in this opening chapter, thus adding to the suspense) to try and retrieve Lady Alice from Willowsweep using force if necessary, and if the opportunity presented itself, murdering the Duke.<br />The book then moves to Willowsweep where Neil Spelling is having a difficult time. Having fallen in-love with Lady Alice, he's trying very hard to change his ways so as to prove himself worthy of the lady. Afterall he does have a reputation as a ne'er-do-well to live down. Moreover he must also change the Duke's bad opinion of him -- and Neil is not so sanguine of achieving this goal. Having Lord Nightingale bad mouth him at every given opportunity certainly does not help things. On a more positive note, his relatives however are willing to forgive him his past misdeeds and to help him in his romance. Or is that a good thing? Nothing is ever simple at Willowsweep!<br />Things definitely take a more exciting turn with the arrival of two gentlemen to the neighbourhood: William Sayers and a Mr. Duncan. Duncan was found on the grounds of Willowseep concussed and suffering from amnesia; while it turns out that Sayers seems to be involved in some scheme involving Neil and the missing journals of a Chastain ancestress reputed to have been a witch. Why then does the very sight of him fill Lady Alice with dread? Has Neil changed his ways or has he slipped into another nefarious scheme? And which one of the two mysterious men is involved in Lady Veramont's scheme to kidnap Lady Alice? Kidnapping plots, mysterious passages and the alleged ghost of a witch on the loose -- things really hop at Willowsweep!<br />The ending of the novel was a bit rushed. However this is an enjoyable read nontheless. Practically everyone that needed to be was redeemed; which is appropriate for a &quot;christmasy&quot; book. A very satisfying end to an enjoyable series.	2000-11-02
2225516:US	52830980	R2V2IL74PL3IXS	006109742X	221110449	Death's Autograph (Antiquarian Book Mysteries)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Death's Autograph	This first Dido Hoare mystery is the most complex of the four so far; but just as interesting and intriguing.<br />This novel starts when a mysterious white car follows Dido on her way back home from a book buying trip, late at night through the deserted M40 highway. Soon after Barnabas, her father, receives a mysterious postcard alluding to the incident. Next, Dido's ne'er-do-well ex-husband, Davy, turns up and tries to persuade her that she needs his help to maintain the bookstore. Then her store is burglarised. Barnabas is sure that Davy is somehow responsible for all these events but Dido refuses to consider that possibility. And then Davy's car is blown up with him in it. The police seemed stumped and cannot quite see the connection between all these events. However Dido comes to the reluctant conclusion that Davy was involved in some way. But how? And what can all this possibly mean?<br />This book is intriguing and complex and I think that if you have the patience to follow all twists and turns of the plot you will be more than amply rewarded. An amazing first installment of an equally amazing series.	2000-11-01
2227083:US	52830980	R4XXXK7E5367L	0061014265	324494532	Ghost Walk: An Antiquarian Book Mystery (Antiquarian Book Mysteries)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Ghost Walk	Another gem of a mystery involving Dido Hoare, an antiquarian bookdealer who also possesses an unhealthily larger than normal dose of curiosity. This time Dido finds herself entangled with Scotland Yard, what was once MI12, and WWII intelligence operatives.<br />It all begins when Dido goes to the aid of a sometime customer, Tommy Ashe, whom she suspects might be just one step away from homelessness and whom she finds sprawled in front of her store. In spite of his protests to the contrary, Dido takes him to hospital, where it turns out he's suffering from a bout of malaria. He caught it while he was in the Middle East in the late 1940s, and he gets recurring attacks every now and then. By way of thanking Dido, Ashe gives Dido a necklace, and then vanishes, but not before Barnabas, Dido's father recognises Ashe as someone he worked with in Intelligence during WWII. The next day, Ashe is found dead. The police at first dismiss the death as natural, caused no doubt from drinking too much alcohol. Dido however knows that Ashe had foresworn alcohol because he was a recovering alcoholic. She asks her policeman friend, Paul Grant, to take another look at the Ashe's death, and this time evidence is found that suggests murder. But who would want to kill a harmless old man who liked reading Thucydides?<br />And then Dido discovers that Ashe named her as executor of his estate, and a strange man claiming to be Ashe's son drops by asking if his father had left any old mementoes from his travels abroad. Except he turns out not to be Ashe's son afterall. Obviously someone believes that Ashe possessed something of great value, and that it might now be in Dido's possession. Will they now come after Dido and Barnabas? And what exactly did Ashe possess that someone was willing to kill for?<br />This Dido Hoare installment like all the rest not only possesses a very interesting and intriguing plot, it also has a very winning prose style that makes you wish that Dido and Barnabas wereactual friends instead of fictional ones. In case it's misses anyone's attention, I thoroughly recommend the entire series.	2000-10-31
2228538:US	52830980	R19WDPMZTJS2T6	0312209185	134005094	To Catch a Cat	Books	4	14	14	N	N	To Catch A Cat	Another gem from Marian Babson! The synopsis for this book is rather accurate so I'll stick to why I liked this mystery novel so much -- it was a really good read. &quot;To Catah A Cat&quot; is a very well written novel that deals, primarily, with kids who feel like outsiders, not quite belonging to any group or anyone; and who have to behave with a level of maturity that they shouldn't have to but which circumstances have forced upon them. <br />And Marian Babson does a marvellous job at depicting the world of 11 year old Robin: a world in which he has been unceremoniously unloaded onto his young aunt, Mags, while his mother and her new husband have an extended honeymoon; a world in which he has, currently, very few friends, and in which he is very much resented by his aunt's live-in lover, Josh; and a world in which he is presently in trouble up to his eyeballs because he broke into the Nordling house in order to steal a valueable cat so that he could be part of a gang, and instead stumbled onto a murder scene. Robin doesn't have much faith in adults. From his outlook he has been severely let down by every adult in his life and he doesn't feel as if he could trust either Mags or Josh with the truth of what happened at the Nordling house. And so Robin soldiers on, trying to take care of the cat he rescued while he keeps an eye out, in case the murderer comes around looking for him. <br />Babson also does a wonderful job at depicting the murderous rage and the cold bloodedness of the killer who tries to cover up what has occurrerd and who then sets about to try and track Robin and the cat. <br />This is may not be a tension filled thriller, although there were some tense moments when it looked as if the murderer would give in to the rage and kill again, but this is definitely a well written book and a really enjoyable read.	2000-10-29
2228790:US	52830980	R1OSEWL49224ZG	0373511175	303628172	Scandal And Miss Smith	Books	3	4	4	N	N	mixed feelings	Like the previous reviewer, I read this book a couple of years ago. And while I did like this book better this time around, I found that the several reservations I had then, still remained. <br />Phoebe Smith is an improbable governess. She either goes out of her way to protect her charges or else she ignores them completely when faced with her employer at his most provocative or instate of undress. (I think that was supposed to pass for an erotic tense moment in the plot). Perhaps it's my age showing, but I find heroines who forget their responsibilities because of a half clad male a bit trying. Also I found myself wishing that Phoebe had kicked Sebastian Deverall in his elegant behind once or twice. So his parents and his brother treated him badly. Is that any reason to treat his nephew and nieces with the same brand of cruel indifference with which he was dealt with? I can understand having a chip on your shoulder (or two) but to carry it over so that you end up taking out your anger on innocent parties smacks of small minded behavior. Phoebe Smith however, in spite of her dithering, I developed quite a fondness for. Which was why I wanted her to clout Sebastian once or twice instead of dissolving into an emotional heap everytime he came within a foot of her. (Another point, I found it extremely hard to swallow that Sebastian would have no idea of the effect he had on her). <br />Barring all my nit-picking however, this is goodish book that has everything from three hellion teenagers ripe for mischief, a warm hearted but slightly clueless governess with a secret past, an elegant and autocractic hero, and a deranged villian who is strangely tied to our hapless heroine. All in all, rather interesting reading.	2000-10-29
2230502:US	52830980	R24YHDZP9BMPTP	0312242433	833325700	Smoke Screen: A Dido Hoare Mystery	Books	5	3	3	N	N	a thumping good read!	I'm really enjoying myself working my way through the Dido Hoare books. What an absolute gem of a series! Dido, Barnabas (her retired Oxford don father) and Eddie (her assistant) are a wonderful team and great fun to read about. <br />Dido Hoare, antiquarian book dealer, can hardly believe her luck when she is offered the opportunity to buy Clare Templeton Forbes's (otherwise known as Her Majesty) book collection. And in spite of the warnings both from another book dealer and her father, Dido eagerly makes her way to Oxford to peruse the collection and make an offer. She is surprised and thrilled to find amongst the collection of 19th century books, a comprehensive collection of Orrin Forbes first editions. Orrin Forbes was a minor American modernist poet and Clare's ex-lover. Realising that she is out of her league here, Dido suggests that Clare get hold of one of the more prestigious auction houses to handle these rare books. But Clare refuses, claiming that she needs the money now so that she can move form her falling apart Oxford home into something more modern. (She also wants everyting done quietly and without her daughter's knowledge.) Dido is leery. There seems to be something suspicious afoot but she has no idea what. And Dido fears she's being manipulated by Clare but is not sure to what end. And then Clare shows her a manuscript of Forbes's missing canto, and wishes to know if Dido will buy it. Extracting from this rather sticky situation, Dido pays a few books and leaves. That very night, Clare dies apparently from having set her bed afire from a lighted cigarette. And the next morning, Dido finds the missing Forbes manuscript in a box of books she bought just as the police arrive to search her premises in search of said manuscript. It turns out that Clare was murdered. Dido feels as if she's being set up -- but is it for murder or theft? With her reputation as a legitimate dealer on the line, Dido plunges in to discover who planted the missing canto onher and who murderd Clare and uncovers quite abit more than she bargained for.<br />\\"Smoke Screen\\" was a roller-coaster of a read. I was fairly glued to the pages as I read along, following Dido's every move as she tried to work out what was happening to her and who was fitting her up and for what. The novel unfolded smoothly and briskly. And Marianne MacDonald's prose style made this book all the more enjoyable and fun. So, if you're lloking for a good biblio-mystery, look no further -- \\"Smoke Screen\\" is just the ticket, and is just the thing to curl up enjoy on a rainy day.	2000-10-27
2231205:US	52830980	R27I5D6J55XSTJ	0727854380	497514182	Fatal Cut	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fatal Cut	This is a very well written mystery novel and makes for very engrossing reading. Christine Greem does a very good job at depicting the various characters and their lives and miseries. <br />Denise Parks is a throughly unpleasant woman. She doesn't like men much and she definitely doesn't approve of her sister's latest boyfriend, Mike. In fact she seems bent on putting an end to that relationship and airs her disapproval at any given opportunity much to Janine and Mike's frustration and anger. Denise's one joy seem to be going to the salon for a beauty treatment, not only for the care but also because she loves eavesdropping on the gossip. She is then able to drop little barbed statments based on the gossip she has overheard to the person concerned, letting them know that she knows all their little foibles but passing it off as some mysterious power she has, rather than as gossip she overheard. Therefore it is no surprise to many when she is found murdered in the beauty salon. But which one of the staff or clients committed the crime?      Definitely everyone has their own little secrets that they are determined to protect much to Chief Inspector Connor O'Neill and Detective Sergeant Fran Wilson's dismay. Connor and Fran find that delving into Denise's life, means stepping into a past that is horrorific and perhaps better left alone. And before this case is over, both Connor and Fran will discover more than they are comfortable with about a woman like Denise Parks.<br />What really made this novel was all the characters connected with the beauty salon. Christine Green gives us characters that are memorable for their strengths and weaknesses, and actually provides us with some rather nice resolutions for these characters by the novel's end. Quite often minor character/suspects are marginalised in a mystery novel, so it was refreshing to find these characters getting a little more attention than they are usually given.<br />This was definitely engrossing reading.	2000-10-27
2233259:US	52830980	R1QXBV73OGMSD4	0312242344	468152906	Road Kill: A Dido Hoare Mystery (Dido Hoare Mysteries)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Road Kill	This is my first Dido Hoare mystery, and I enjoyed it immensely. The novel is tautly paced and to the point; and Marianne Macdonald does a wonderful job at conveying to the reader the sense of urgency and frustration that Dido et al feel from being alternately harrassed by bent ex-policemen and thugs, and from being used and left out-of-the-loop by the investigating police.<br />When Dido goes to the aid of her nanny, Phyllis, she little expects to be caught up in an old bullions robbery from the 1980s involving mobsters and bent poicemen. First Phyllis's apartment is ransacked but nothing is taken except an old computer. And when the police arrive the next morning to investigate the burgulary, Phyllis recognise them as the burgulars form the previous night. Then Phyllis's husband Frankie is found murdered, and it is revealed that Frankie's father was once the head of a powerful criminal gang that was involved in the Hatton Carriers bullion robbery. On top of it all Dido's policeman friend, Paul Grant, is suspended from duty. Rumour is that he is bent, but Dido knows it is because he came to her aid. What exactly is going on?<br />This was a really fun read. The mystery was smoothly written and each plot twist was nicely piled on so that you could actually feel the tension mounting with each new revelation. A very nice mystery to curl up with and enjoy, esp on rainy nights.	2000-10-25
2234763:US	52830980	RG3NH3CGE8ETN	0373511167	957833989	Serena (Readers Choice)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Serena	Serena Calvert is an unique young woman. Singlehandedly she has been running her family plantation in the West Indies for years trying to keep afloat in a sea of debts that her father ran up. Now however she's decided to leave the island and to sail to England with her niece, Lucy. Lucy is at the age in which a London Season is called for, and Serena is determined to ensure that her niece's future is secure with a good marriage. <br />Unfortunately, there is a tragedy and a hushed up scandal that ties th Calverts to Stannards: Lord Wintersett holds the Calverts, and Serena Calvert in particular, responsible for his brother, Tony Stannard's death, and by extension his nephew's and his mother's illnesses. And he has vowed to make them pay. However when first Wintersett and Serena meet, each has no idea who the other really is. Wintersett is captivated by Serena's warmth and vivacity, and Serena is equaly captivated by Lord Wintersett. <br />Wintersett is shocked when he discovers who 'his' Serena really is and publically snubs her. But he is unable to reconcile the captivating and (he senses) honourable Serena with the heartless temptress that caused his brother's death, and resolves to try and find out what actually happened on the island of St. Just all those years ago. Serena for her part is at first angered by Wintersett's behaviour and then is stunned when she discovers who he actually is. But all this pales when she finds herself becoming the object of a plot to discredit her. Is Wintersett involved in this latest dastardly scheme? He claims not to be but can she trust him? And can she overlook his capacity to cause pain or his coldness and lack of compassion?<br />A very interesting and enjoyable book with a strong and gallant female protagonist. I also liked the fact that Sylvia Andrew took an extra couple of chapters for Serena to work out her confused feelings for Wintersett before resolving things happily. Definitely a good read.	2000-10-24
2235501:US	52830980	R1QEULOLVORY7A	0373511159	548950337	Dear Lady Disdain (Readers Choice)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Dear Lady Disdain	This was, I'll admit, not an easy book for me to rate. The &quot;hero&quot; of the piece, Matt Falconer, came across for almost half the book as an unmannerly and imperious lout. He is, of course, redeemed by the time the book is finished. The trouble  is that while the book spans almost a year, the reader reads it over the space of two to three hours, so that it would take some pretty nifty writing to persuade a reader that a protagonist is redeemed or even deserves to be redeemed. In this case I was almost convinced, but I also wished that the heorine, Stacy Blanchard had given in to her feelings and clouted him on the head a couple of times just to underline the message that he deserves some kind of punishment.<br />Stacy Blanchard is an anomaly in regency England. She's intelligent, competent, and she owns and runs a bank. And while she is openly courted for her wealth, she is also regarded as an &quot;unwomanly&quot; young lady because she refuses to allow others (read men) to run the bank her father left her. Some irregularities with the bank branch in York causes Stacy to leave London and venture north in severe winter weather in order to investigate the matter. A carriage accident however causes Stacy and her party to seek shelter at Pontisford Hall. And that's where all the problems that Stacy will have to face in the year to come begins. <br />Matt Falconer has returned to England form Virginia, and he is in a foul mood. Actually he is in a foul mood for most of the book, which is one reason I didn't buy his ability to become suddenly sunny natured completely. He left England under a cloud and has hated his family, society, and England ever since. Stacy, with her managing ways in exactly the kind of woman he dislikes most, and so takes out his bad humour on her. However Stacy has not been running a bank for nothing -- she gives as good as she gets. Something Falconer is not used to! In spite of the anger that both Stacy and Falconer inspire in each other,there is also a thread of attraction and desire that each feels for the other; and one night, anger gives way to desire. The next moring Falconer regrets giving in to passion; Stacy sensing his withdrawal is hurt and tries to put the entire episode behind her by pretending that it never happened. As soon as the thaw sets in Stacy and her party leave Pontisford Hall but not before she lets Falconer know just how low she regards him. But what will she do when Falconer unable to forget her, follows her to York, especially when she discovers that she is carrying his child? <br />I liked Stacy Balnchard quite a bit. Paula Marshall did a very good job in depicting the frustration that Stacy feels with a society that does not allow an intelligent and capable young woman to do what she's good at. She also does a fairly good job at showing us why Stacy and Falconer are a good match. The trouble lies (for me anyway)in that Falconer is so aggravating in the first quarter of the book that you're left with mixed feelings when the happy resolution actually does takes place.<br />The prose style is actually very good and the cover art is very tastfully done. All in all the book is rather good too; I just have no time for bad tempered men no matter their provocation.	2000-10-24
2237157:US	52830980	R29NM02ZXQUX9O	0821767054	461891108	The Marquis' Kiss (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Marquis' Kiss	Thomas, the decorous Marquis DeGuis, is currently the most sought after of bachelors in the ton, and yet he cannot find anyone to marry him. His first fiance, Allison Munroe, cried off in order to marry a man of far less distiction, and the next, Lady Janice Willstencraft, informed him that his kisses left much to be desired. Unfortunately Thomas feels that he must marry and soon: he fears that he has inherited the weak DeGuis heart, and he wishes to leave an heir before he passes on. But who will marry him, especially as he seems to be unable to satisfy any woman with his kisses?<br />Margaret Munroe (cousin to Allison) is considered to be an original. She races with friends and works unstintingly to help former prostitues get off the streets. She is vivacious and energetic and passionate in her beliefs; and while not plain, she isn't exactly the charming and beautiful pattern card of a young society miss. Definitely not the kind of woman Thomas would have courted if all things were normal. Once introduced at a ball however, Thomas finds himself being charmed and intrigued by Margaret's warmth and forthright ways. He proceeds to court her friendship. Could this friendship between the staid Thomas and the vivacious Margaret blossom into something else? And what will Thomas do when it reaches the point when he will have to kiss Margaret? <br />Regina Scott has creatd a wonderful heroine in Margaret Munroe -- a warm and generous woman with strong convictions about love and marriage and what she rightly deserves. On top of everything, Margaret also possesses a strong social conscience and acts on it!! This is not the usual run-of-the-mill regency romance where a beautiful young woman arrives in London for her Season and then proceeds to indulge in a giddy swirl of events. Don't misunderstand, I've enjoyed books possessing those plots! But this book has something extra, a young woman who while she enjoys social activities like dancing and riding also seems to be aware of the miseries that many face in their day-to-day lives, and is prepared to do her bit to help a few. It was also heartwarming to watch Thomas blossom from reserved and decorous into a more relaxed and open young man, instead of stubbornly digging his heels in and demanding that Margaret change her beliefs to suit him! What a relief! I remember reading a couple regencies in the early 1990s where the heroine, like Margaret, did charitable work that was considered dangerous and so &quot;unsuitable&quot;. She then allowed herself to be guided to more &quot;suitable&quot; charitable work. Can one tag charities as &quot;suitable&quot; or &quot;unsuitable&quot; depending on the danger quota and the level of personal involvement? What exactly is &quot;suitable&quot; charity work anyway?<br />Getting off my soapbox and back to the review, I enjoyed this book thoroughly, and recommend it heartily.	2000-10-22
2239267:US	52830980	R2GZ2YBUKEMTGL	0553801686	905302949	Legacy of the Dead (Inspector Ian Rutledge Mysteries)	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Legacy Of The Dead	Fiona MacDonald came to live with her aunt in Duncarrick as a young war widow with a baby. At first, she is accepted by the villagers. But after her aunt's death, Fiona becomes the victim of a vicious smear campaign. Someone has been circulating annonymous letters, accusing her of wantoness. And soon, she is effectively shunned by nearly everyone in the community . Not content with the misery he or she has caused Fiona, her unseen enemy soon ups the stakes and accuses her of having committed murder in order to steal the baby for herself. Fiona is unable to refute the charges or to prove that the child living with her is her's. And when a few months later the police uncover the remains of a young woman, Fiona is arrested and charged with murder based on the circumstancial evidence.<br />Ian Rutledge is sent north to placate Lady Maude Gray. The police believe that the remains they found may be those of her missing daughter's, Eleanor, and that the child Fiona had been rearing could be Eleanor's baby. However Lady Maude is outraged at such a notion and refuses to help in the investigation. She is unwilling to believe that Eleanor is dead or that she could have borne a child out of wedlock. Rutledge has been sent in to soft soap her, and to see if he can gain her trust and cooperation. He has very little success with the harsh and proud lady.<br />And when Rutledge goes to Duncarrick to meet the woman who is at the center of all this mystery, he is stunned to find that he recognises Fiona as Hamish MacLeod's fiance. MacLeod is the young man he executed for refusing to fight, and whose ghost is currently haunting him. Rutledge feels that he must help Fiona, but he faces the distrust and anger of a community bent on punishing her for imagined misdeeds. He tries to get her to confide in him, but she refuses. Fiona is full of secrets that are not her's to divulge, and she seems to have chosen death over breaking faith with whomever she made the promises to. Rutledge realises that he must discover what happened to Eleanor Grey in order to save Fiona from the hangman's noose. But the harder he digs, the more evidence he seems to find that points to Fiona's guilt.<br />This seemingly simple plot posseses many intriguingly complex subplots -- whose child is Fiona raising? Whatever did become of Eleanor Grey? Why was no one interested or curious about what had become of her since 1916? And who is Fiona's deadly enemy and what is the cause of all this fury he or she feels towards her? Charles Todd spins quite an intricate web, that draws you in and keeps you guessing. And he paints a wonderfully vivid picture of a small Scottish community just after WW1: cold and narrow, dour and humourless, grounded in a Knox-like righteouness that has very little room for compassion and understanding. Todd also paints a vivid portrait of two brave and courageous women: Fiona and Eleanor. Fiona who puts her loyalty and frienship for another above her own well-being; and Eleanor who had the courage to leave her previleged life behind in order to do something worthwhile with her life.<br />A very intricate and interesting novel that is also rich in atmosphere. A wonderful read.	2000-10-20
2242614:US	52830980	R3PUI5GCV9JGTE	0312253168	94736810	Fault Lines	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fault Lines	This is a deeply engrossing novel that will keep you guessing, with a couple of plot twists that you almost expect, and yet manages to surprise you anyway.<br />Kara Huggate, a social worker, has persuaded Trish Maguire, a sharp and idealistic lawyer, to take on a case of alleged child abuse. The case pretty much hinges on Kara's testimony. And so Trish is shocked to learn that on the very day of the trial, Kara was found murdered in a most brutal manner in her home. The police seem to think that either the Kingsford rapist has struck again or else it is a case of a copycat crime.<br />Trish is still mourning her friend's death when she receives a letter from Kara requesting that Trish help a client, Blair Collons, in a case of wrongful dismissal. Collons, is a seedy man who used to work as the bookkeeper for the Kingsford Town Council. He claims he was dismissed because he and Kara were suspicious of a shady development deal that the Council was involved in with contaminated land. Collon is a man that lives and breathes conspiracy theories and he firmly believes that Kara was murdered because she was trying to find out what was going on.<br />Collons makes Trish feel extremely uneasy, especially as he seems to have a rather unhealthy fixation for Kara. Trish begins to suspect that Collon may have murdered Kara. However she feels obligated to help Collon because it was Kara's last request, and because he is now a client. And then someone starts sending her newspaper cuttings of women who have been brutally , and she starts receiving threatening 'phone calls in the middle of the night. Is it Collon, or could his wild, off-the-wall theories actually have substance?<br />I was totally absorbed with this book. The intricacies and tight pacing of the book was so neatly mapped out, that it was pretty much 'smooth' reading. Also much of the violence was alluded to without graphic and needless descriptions -- a fact much appreciated! I freely admit to being a bit of an Anglophile, and so find mysteries that give the reader a glimpse of the British legal system engrossing reading. And when they are matched with a character like Trish Maguire, they are a winning combination. Trish may be sharp and a little impatient, but she is smart and loyal as well. The next Trish Maguire mystery will be an automactic 'must read' for me.<br />Very engrossing reading.	2000-10-18
2242653:US	52830980	R104ROB31A28LC	0451201477	802607270	Mistletoe Mischief (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Mistletoe Mischief	This is a light and enjoyable book that seems to employ nearly every stock device that I can think of: from a brave young orphan, Megan Mortimer, who has been cruelly dealt with by her sole surviving relative, Oliver March; to a pair of erstwhile lovers, Lord Rupert Radcliffe and Miss Chloe Holcroft, who are on the outs because Rupert has made the mistake of spurning Chloe's affections, not realising until too late that he does actually love her. We also have an eligible bachelor, Sir Grenville Seton, who despises all companions because his father deserted him and his mother for one; and a ghost, Rollo Witherspoon, who is somehow bound to the eccentric Lady Evangeline Radcliffe. This is a book rich in quite a few sub-plots, and Sandra Heath manages to tie all the different plots together in a highly entertaining manner, that is bound to give satisfaction to most regency romance fans.<br />Megan Mortimer has just lost her position as companion because of the unasked and untoward attentions of her employer's male relative. Lady Evangeline, hearing of this great wrong, hires Megan to be a companion to her, and takes her to Brighton. Megan soon comes to realise that Lady Evangeline's closest companion is actually a ghost, Rollo. And while she is a little daunted at this prospect, she resolves to do her best in her new situation.<br />Once in Brighton, both ladies are surprised to find that Lord Rupert and Sir Grenville have taken up residence in Lady Evangeline's house. Both young men are also surprised at Lady Evangeline's return, and not a little chagrined as now they have to participate in Lady Evangeline's production &quot;Twelfth Night&quot;. However since both young men are fond of their relative, they give in. Sir Grenville however is incensed to discover that he has to share a roof with a member of that dispised profession, the 'companion'. However it is not long before he finds himself admiring Megan for her fortitude and honour. Especially when Oliver March tries first to bribe and then to blackmail Megan. March is now courting Chloe Holcroft, and cannot afford to have anyone discover than Megan is a relative and that he has treated her shabbily. However Megan refuses to be intimated. And March resolves to ruin her socially instead. Will March succeed in destroying Megan? Will Rupert and Chloe find their way back to each other? Will Grenville overcome his prejudices and acknowledge his growing affection for Megan? And what of Rollo and Lady Evangeline?<br />Since this a romance novel, I'm sure everyone can guess the various outcomes to all these sub-plots. The journey towards these resolutions will bring a small smile of satisfaction to most readers at this novel's end. Sandra Heath has provided us with a highly entertaining and very 'christmasy' book.	2000-10-17
2243906:US	52830980	R332UUDGBZQKCS	0451201701	519350349	A Lady of Letters	Books	4	21	21	N	N	A  Lady Of Letters	Lady Augusta Hadley is no ordinary society miss. She possesses a brain and opinions and is not afraid of either displaying her intelligence or airing her ideas. She also secretly pens editorials under the pseudonym &quot;Firebrand&quot;, afterall her opinions would not be taken seriously if everyone knew that they were being voiced by a young waman. Certainly she is the bane of her mother's life and is considered to be brash and on-the-shelf by most gentlemen of the ton. But this does not worry Lady Augusta as she is of the opinion that most gentlemen of society are fools anyway.<br />Lord Sheffield certainly falls into her category of gentlemen she considers as wastrels. And whenever they meet, sparks fly. Lady Augusta somehow manages to make him feel foolish and he does not enjoy the feeling. However both Lady Augusta and Lord Sheffield have no idea that they have actually been secretly corresponding with each other for months. Sheffield, feeling that he is wasting his life, and having been inspired by Firebrand's articles, has been writing to Lady Augusta as &quot;Tinder&quot;, exchanging ideas and asking for advice. And Lady Augusta, moved by Tinder's sincerity and sensitivity is beginning to fall in-love with her secret correspondent.<br />However it is the mysterious disappearance of a few of her father's tenants'children that truly throws both Lady Augusta and Sheffield together. Firebrand has written to Tinder asking for his help. This means that Augusta and Sheffield end up having to work together in order to discover what is going on. Will they be able to do so without tearing each other to shreds? And what will happen when Sheffield discovers that Firebrand is actually a woman, and one particular woman in question?<br />It's been a long time since I have really liked the heroine of a romance novel wholeheartedly and completely. Usually they start out smart and independent, and then halfway through the book seeem to loose all steam and initiative, or elsethey are so provokingly totty-headed that you just end up longing for them to come a cropper! (I sound impossibly hard to please don't I?) However I really liked Lady Augusta, who not only possessed intelligence, courage and compassion, but also had the good sense to admit when she may actually need help. I also liked the close relationship that Lady Augusta had with her younger sister. It's nice and refreshing to read of sisters who can be friends, especially when there is a visible age difference and a difference in temperament as well, instead of the rather stale sibling rivalry we sometimes get. And kudos to Andrea Pickens for actually creating a romance hero who realises that the lady he's in love with may actually be smarter than he is, and to agreeing to support her in her writing.<br />All in all a truly satisfying read.	2000-10-17
2245581:US	52830980	R3J0QTLUA76J3G	0345433262	308002954	Slaves of Obsession (William Monk Novels)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Slaves Of Obsession	A dark tale that deals with the concepts of obsession, betrayal and love. Anne Perry with her usual brilliance spins an intricate tale that will keep the reader glued to the page. A word of caution though: read the last third of the book with careful attention, otherwise certain facts that are revealed will be missed and the resolution to the mystery will make no sense. (Unlike some mystery writers, Anne Perry does provide the reader with all the clues to the crime that has been committed, so that we may arrive at the conclusion along with the detective.)<br />William and Hester Monk are invited to dine with Daniel and Judith Alberton. Also at the dinner party are Robert Casblot, Judith's cousin and Daniel's business partner; the Alberton's sixteen year old daughter Merrit; and Lyman Breeland, an American from Conneticut. Soon it becomes evident to the Monks that there are some rather uncomfortable undercurrents swirling around at the dinner table. Soon all is revealed, especially with the intrusion of another American, Philo Trace, to the dinner party. Amongst other things Daniel Alberton also deals in guns. Both Breeland and Trace represent the North and the South respectively, and both want to buy guns from Alberton. Much to Merrit's  disgust her father having agreed to sell to Trace first, will not renege on his word and sell to Breeland whose cause she believes in passionately.<br />However it soon becomes evident that the Monks have been invited for a particular reason. Daniel Alberton is being blackmailed for an act of kindness that could be misconstrued. The blackmailers want him to sell his guns to pirates instead of the Americans. Selling to pirates is something Alberton absolutely refuses to do and so he hires Monk to try and discover who the blckmailers could be. But while Monk is in the middle of this investigation, Alberton is murdered in an absolutely brutal manner, and the guns that were to be sold to Trace are stolen. And there is horrifying fear isthat Merrit may somehow be involved in her father's death. Both father and daughter had a really bad falling out and parted company bitterly; and at first it looked as if she had merely runaway with Breeland. But with Alberton murdered and the guns are missing, could there be a more sinister connection?. Could Merrit and Breeland really have perpetrated such a horrendous crime for a cause they both believe in? <br />Judith Alberton hires Monk to go to American and to bring Merrit back even if she has to face the accusation of having conspired to murder her father. Monk undertakes to bring both Breeland amd Merrit back to England. It seems clearcut: somehow Breeland murdered Alberton and stole the guns, and has either kidnapped Merrit or is using her to cover his guilt. However, once Monk catches up with the couple, he begins to doubt if they had anything to do with the crime at all. Because there is no escaping a court case, Judith Alberton hires Oliver Rathbone to defend both Merrit and Breeland. So while Rathbone tries to fight for the couple in court, Monk works against time, scouring all over the docks and warehouses trying to find evidence to set the couple free.<br />This is quite a complex tale eventhough it seems clearcut at first. Merrit's and Breeland's guilt seems obvious but once Monk starts investigating for the defense, other facts come to light that could save the two. Anne Perry does a wonderful job at drawing out the mystery and padding the novel with philosophical ideas on the concepts of obsession and love. Also, she does not preach one cause over the other, making us see both sides of the American Civil War debate. But where this book absolutely shines is in the glimpses of war that she provides us with through Hester Monk's eyes. Having survived the Crimean War, Hester is again thrown into the horrors of war when she tries to provide help at the battle of Bull Run. The absolute horror and wastefulness of a war is brilliantly captured in these few chapters, and is what makes this book really stand out.<br />A book that will keep you ruminating long after you've finished the novel.	2000-10-15
2248606:US	52830980	R3G7OXYNY6UDI9	0312209282	12186643	Last Seen in Massilia:  A Novel of Ancient Rome	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A definite winner and an excellent read	The latest Gordianus mystery novel is a definite winner. This book is full of historical detail and the few historical characters that grace this book albeit briefly, really come alive.  There is, as usual, a good deal of political intrigue mixed in with a mysterious death. And while there may not be that many intriguing twists and turns, the descriptions of the few battle scenes and the seige together with Gordianus's heartstopping attempt to enter the city of Massilia should be enough to satisfy most readers.<br />Gordianus and his son-in-law, Davus have travelled to Massilia to try and discover what exactly has become of Meto. Meto is Gordianis's son who was part of Julius Caesar's inner circle. However, Meto and Caesar had a falling out a while back and the upshot of that was that Meto deserted Caesar and was last seen consorting with Pompey's cohorts in Massilia. However, it is an annonymous note to Gordianus informing him that Meto is dead that inspires this ill-advised trip to the  beseiged city. (The citizens of Massilia had made the bad mistake of throwing their lot in with Pompey instead of Caesar).<br />Having reached the outskirts of Massilia however, Gordianus is unable to learn anything new from the Romans beseiging the city other than that Meto is a traitor. So disguised as soldiers, Gordianus and Devus try to sneak into Massilia. The people of Massilia are facing a famine and destruction at the hands of Caesar's army. Tempers are short and the people are highly superstitious and excitable. All in all not a good time to be a Roman in Massilia. <br />Once inside the city, Gordianus is witness to a mysterious death. He and Davus watch a woman fall to her death from a precipice called the Sacrifice Rock. But did she commit suicide or was she pushed? The concensus is divided on this. Gordianus also finally receives news of Meto's fate which leaves him depressed and unhappy, and therefore suscepible to the anguish of a Gaulish merchant who wants to find out if it is his missing daughter that Gordianus saw fall. Gordianus sets out to try and help the merchant, all the while trying to grapple with what has happened to Meto. <br />This is a truly exceptional book that is part of a truly exceptional series. For history addicts Steven Saylor not only makes the people of Massilia and their customs and culture come alive, he also breathes new life into the conflict between Pompey and Caesar. The depiction of societies coming apart at the seams because of power hungry dictators will resonate with all readers, especially in light of what we have all witnessed recently. For mystery buffs, I can ensure you that this seemingly simple mystery plot will still captivate.<br />An enjoyable and truly brilliant read.	2000-10-13
2250846:US	52830980	R10RRER7B922JI	0312869657	550531105	To Wear The White Cloak: A Catherine LeVendeur Mystery	Books	5	12	13	N	N	To Wear The White Cloak	Paris in 1147 is pure mayhem. Men leaving for the holy land have converged on the city, bringing with them vagabonds and conmen smelling opportunities to gull and steal. There is also evidence that the doomsday cult, the eonisits, has arrived. Starvation seems to be rampant, and a group of ruffians is attacking the Jews. All in all not the homecoming that Catherine had hoped for!<br />Catherine, Edgar and family have finally made it home from Germany. However upon entering their house, they find the dead and festering body of a man garbed as one of the Templars. Catherine and Edgar naturally  report this finding to the Marshall of the Knight Templars; and so it is with great outrage that they discover that they are somehow under suspicion for either knowing who committed the murder, or else witholding some vital clue of the crime. Catherine resolves to solve the mystery. However other matters keep getting in the way. She has to deal with the unsettling relationship that seems to be growing between her Jewish cousin Solomon, and Edgar's sister, Margaret; someone keeps trying to break into their house; and to cap it all, Jehan, that somewhat mad and vengeful knight from previous novels, has returned and is causing all kinds of problems by spreading rumours about Catherine and her family's involvement with witchcraft and lapsed Judaism. Too many things are getting in the way of solving the mystery of the dead Templar!<br />This series keeps getting better and better. The historical detail is wonderful, and the plot, while a seemingly simple one is padded with enough sub-plots to keep the reader's interest. A truly enjoyable read!	2000-10-11
2250925:US	52830980	RDIYWAC8WCZ8T	0821767399	552236971	Mistletoe Mayhem (Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Mistletoe Mayhem	It's been two years since Lady Madelyn Rathbone, one of the ton's most beautiful and accomplished hostesses, and Robert Langtry, a country squire of modest means, angrily parted company. Robert had been unable to gain Lady Madelyn's guardian's approval to his proposal of marriage, and Madelyn had wanted him to elope with her in spite of her guardian. An added complication had been that because of an unfortunate and tragic accident, Robert had just become sole guardian of his brother's children. Madelyn had been jealous of the children's prior claim to Robert's attention and been unable to understand his commitment to them.<br />Now two years later, fate brings the two erstwhile lovers together at a houseparty. Both Robert and Madelyn are being courted by a Mrs. Crowley and Cederic Wyndham respectively. But Robert and Mandelyn are unable to deny their attraction for each other. Will the magic of Christmas be able to heal all wounds and bring the couple together?<br />This was a rather difficult book to rate, as while it is well  written and stands very well on its own, it makes very little sense when it's put up against a prior book, &quot;The Lieutentant's Lady&quot;. The Lady Madelyn in that book was a spoilt brat who almost caused two men to loose their lives because of her machinations. (That is not referred to at all in this book). Robert Langtry also came across as a bit of a fool in that book. And while we are able to divine that guardianship of four children has somehow matured Robert, we're allowed no such in sight as to how or why Madelyn has matured. <br />So while this is a well written book, if you liked &quot;The Lieutenant's Lady&quot;, be prepared to be a little disconcerted.	2000-10-11
2253681:US	52830980	RPCSI04P35S60	055358281X	537413710	A Little Death	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A Must Read	You can believe all the rave reviews that this book has garnered -- they are all true. I was totally engrossed with this book. And what a dark and subtle plot!<br />The book starts out ordinarily enough with an obituary ( a prologue of sorts that frames the plot) for one of the minor characters in this mystery novel, Louisa, Lady Kellaway. From this article we learn that she was the cousin of Georgina Gresham, a notorious society matron who was tried for the murder of her husband, James Gresham in 1928. Georgina was later found not guilty of the charge, and she withdrew from society after the trial to live in seclusion with her brother, Edmund Lomax and a housekeeper Ada Pepper. We also learn that in 1955 all three were found dead from gunshot wounds. The consensus then was that one of the three had killed the other two and then committed suicide; but no one was ever sure which one of the three had pulled the trigger, or why. <br />And then having provided the reader with the blueprint of the plot, Laura Wilson begins the construction of a truly amazing story. There are three voices to this tale: Georgina -- careless, self-absorbed, manipulative and secretive; Edmund -- lacking self confidence and easily lead; and Ada, the servant -- loyal and shrewd. All three are bound together by circumstances and by some pretty nifty manipulation of Georgina's part. The narratives sort of slid from the 1950s to the late 1890s. Each trying to convey to the reader their idea of what really happened, and why and how it occurred. For the most part Ada is our most reliable guide; and it is from her that we get the sense that everything started to go wrong for the Lomax siblings the day their younger brother, Freddie, was killed. After that dreadful event, their father took to drink. Neglected by her father and living in total isolation, Georgina marries James Gresham in order to escape. But that marriage soon turns out to be a disaster as the two have nothing in common with each other. Georgina soon starts up an affair with a friend of James's, Edward Booth, and also takes up with a much wilder society crowd. And then James is found dead from an overdose of drugs, and Georgina is arrested for murder.<br />This book was engrossing reading. Each time you think that you're ahead of the author and that you know what really happened, Laura Wilson drops a bombshell, so that you even begin to wonder if any of the narratives are truthful or accurate at all. The novel is well written, and all the characters, major and minor are nicely and fully depicted. In fact, it would be accurate to say that there are no minor characters in this novel. Each character, no matter how small the part, plays an integral role in the tragedy that unfolds for Ada, Georgina and Edmund, and helps to shape what happens. And Georgina, Edmund and Ada also affect the people they come into contact with. <br />This is a truly dark tale, full of twists and turns that will keep you guessing and totally engrossed. An amazing read.	2000-10-09
2254220:US	52830980	R7IPTMT6NNL9D	0385486103	582921363	Beacon Street Mourning: A Fremont Jones Mystery (Fremont Jones Mysteries)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Beacon Street Mourning	Fremont Jones does not only dislike her father's second wife, Augusta, immensely; she's also always been highly suspicious of her. And so when she gets no response from her father to her letters and telegrams, she enlists one of her father's old banking friends, William Barrett, to discover what is going on. He delivers some very disquieting news: Leonard Jones is gravely ill and is not receiving proper medical attention, and that Augusta seems to be guilty of neglecting her seriously ill husband. Angered and not a little scared, Fremont resolves to go to Boston to investigate matters inspite of the injuries she has sustained from a prevoius misadventure. <br />Once in Boston, Fremont is dismayed to discover that Augusta has been effectively isolationg Leonard from all his friends and family, and that she has also replaced all the old family servants with one very overworked young girl. Fremont is further dismayed that Augusta has somehow managed to convince Barrett and Dr. Searles Cosgrove, the Jones's family doctor, that Leonard is dying slowly but naturally and that he should be able to do so in peace at home and under her care. What, Fremont wonders, is this power Augusta seems to be able to wield over men?<br />Leonard Fremont soon dies, and Fremont is angered and frustrated further to discover that she cannot authorise an autopsy. That power lies with Augusta, and she is unlikely to do so. And then a few days after Leonard's death, Augusta is shot to death. In the midst of investigating Augusta's nefarious deeds, Fremont must now expand her investigation in order to discover who could have killed Augusta.<br />This is a novel that is rich in dark atmosphere. And Dianne Day does a brilliant job in transmitting this darkness that encapsulates the book: Boston in winter; Fremont's fear that she will loose her father; Augusta's graceful and elegant hatefulness, and the thrall with which she seems to hold Barrett, Cosgrove and Fremont's father; and the rigid Bostonsociety into which highly independent and free-spirited Fremont could not fit in. And if the pacing of the book was somewhat uneven -- slow for the most part, and only picking up steam for the last quarter -- this is a fault easily forgiven a well written and highly enjoyable novel.	2000-10-09
2257670:US	52830980	R19EPLAV00V5SW	0821767062	692811294	The Willful Miss Winthrop (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Wilful Miss Winthrop	I think that labelling Cymberly Winthrop as 'wilful' is not quite so accurate -- 'courageous' comes to mind instead. In spite of the disapproval and censure of all those around her, Cymberly Winthrop has the courage and tenacity to do what her heart tells her to, and because of that she comes out on top in the end.<br />Cymberly misses her father, General Winthrop, desperately. He is currently fighting Napoleon's army in Portugal. So in spite of her godmother's disapproval and misgivings, Cymberly leaves fashionable London for Lisbon. Once there, Cymberly meets the enigmatic Major Ryder, and she is quickly drawn to him. And so  it is with dismay that she learns that he is a member of her mother's despiced aristrocratic family. Disapproving of her parents runaway marriage, they had cut off all connection with the Winthrops, and still refuse to acknowledge them. Major Ryder himself is a bit of a shadowy figure: disparaged by the junoir officers as a coward, and yet much admired by his men and by Wellington's staff. Cymberly is confused by all this and resolves to have nothing further to do with the Major in spite of her growing attraction to him.<br />After one particular skermish with the Frech however General Winthrop is killed and it looks as if Cymberly will have to go back to England afterall. She however wishes to stay on and to continue nursing the wounded and the dying. And because her assisstance is invaluable, Wellington allows her to stay on. What follows is the story of a brave young woman soldiering on in the face of society's disapproval, despite the horrors of war, and despite what she feels is a hopeless love for Geoffrey Ryder.<br />This is a well written novel and an enjoyable one at that. Ms Counts has managed to describe the realities of war accurately but without all the horrorific details -- this is after all a light romance novel, and I'm sure her delicacy will be appreciated. The heroine is brave, tenacious and compassionate; while the hero ishonourable and brave without being overly pompous. Several minor characters are nicely fleshed out as well and this only adds to the novel's strengths. <br />All in all a truly enjoyable read.	2000-10-05
2259975:US	52830980	R2HWXCA49I7ETY	0821767046	978843809	Lord Nightingale's Triumph (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Lord Nightingale's Triumph	This is the third of the Lord Nightingale books, and it is the funniest to date. This time Judith Lansdowne has provided her readers with something along the lines of a rollicking 'on-the-road' adventure. Many characters from the first two books pop up again -- the featured villain of this piece being Serendipity's and Delight's cousin from the first Lord Nightingale adventure &quot;Lord Nightingale's Debut&quot;, Lord Upton. Somehow Upton has discovered that Lord Nightingale holds the key to some treasure, and he is determined to get the treasure for himself. To the end he blackmails Neil Spelling (the ne'er-do-well Chastain cousin) to obtain Lord Nightingale for him. Neil, hires some poachers who in turn send Peter Winthrop to perform the deed.<br />Fate, bad weather and Lord Nightingale have all served to bring the estranged Peter and Mary Butterberry together in a cow barn. She was on her way to London to try and locate him, and Peter has just succeeded in kidnapping Lord Nightingale. At first Mary is estactic to be reunited with her Peter but then she realises that Peter has just entered into a life of crime. Unable to persuade him that his best interests lie in returning the parrot, she resolves to go with him to London. Understanding that it is futile to try and change Mary's mind, Peter allows her to believe that she has convinced him, all the while leaving a trail that will allow Mary's father, the Reverend Butterberry to follow them. And so the 'road' adventure starts with an assortment of characters following Peter, Mary and Lord Nightingale.<br />This novel is a little funnier than the first two mainly because in this adventure, little Delight Bedford and Lord Nightingale have been separated (albeit temporarily). Lord Nightingale's antics while he is in the care of Peter and Mary will bring forth a chuckle or two; while Delight seems to have found a new foil in the Duke of Sotherland, who just happens to be Peter's father. Also, Mary's calm and practicalresponses to Peter's dark and melodramatic utterances were a delightful counterpoint that added just the right touch to the novel.<br />This is I think the most successful of all the books so far but only because all the unanswered questions are dealt with in this novel. (What Knollsmamer is is finally explained).Also characters from &quot;Lord Nightingale's Debut&quot; and &quot;Lord Nightingale's Love Song&quot; are further developed and we are allowed to appreciate this growth and maturity. <br />I enjoyed this book and am looking forward to reading the next Lord Nightingale installment.	2000-10-04
2262684:US	52830980	R4E5PI1X7B9D4	042517672X	984714512	Sisters of Cain	Books	2	11	16	N	N	Sisters of Cain	Unfortunately this is not a Glynis Tryon mystery novel. &quot;Sisters of Cain&quot; features instead two of Glynis's neices: Bronwen, a Treasury Department agent, and Kathryn, a nurse. <br />It's 1862, and the Virginia Peninsula campaign is about to begin. Unfortunately for the Union, there seems to be a double agent within the Treasury Department who is not only leaking secrets but who also seems to be betraying agents behind the lines in the South. Bronwen and a group of agents have been recalled from various assignments in order to get new counter-espionage training so as to prevent further sabotage attempts from taking place.<br />An added complication for Bronwen is that she has been marked for elimination by a group of rabid secessionists who hold high-levels of office within the federal government. She had discovered evidence of this group's exsistence while on assignment in Richmond. Attempts on her life seem to dog Bronwen everywhere even in the midst of her new assignment, and Bronwen must learn to trust no one, not even her fellow agents. Unfortunately, Kathryn is pulled into the intrigue by virture of her relationship with her sister.<br />This novel is rich in historical detail -- a fact that I truly appreciate. However I didn't feel the tension or the sense of urgency that one would expect from espionage novel in spite of the fact that we are told over and over again that Bronwen is afraid for her life. Part of my problem (I suspect) was that Bronwen inspired a great deal of irritation. She seemed a totally unlikely secret agent because of her recklessness, foolhardy behaviour and her reluctance to follow orders. She seemed entirely too full of herself and her infallibility, and since she is relatively new to the job, I wondered at her sense of superiority. Conventional wisdom is that a secret agent has about a six month life span during a war -- and that's an agent that lies low and behaves in a circumspect manner! I'd be curious to know if Bronwen actually survives the American Civil War given her utterly reckless behaviour.	2000-10-02
2262814:US	52830980	R137UO7IFOPFES	0451195590	458535105	The Spider's Web	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The Spider's Web	One of the better Sister Fidelma mystery novels.<br />The chieftain of Araglin, Eber is found savagely murdered; and a young man who happens to be blind, deaf and mute, Moen, is found drenched in blood by his side. Later, Eber's sister, Teafa, who was the primary caretaker of Moen, is also found murdered. The people of Araglin would like nothing better than to hold Moen responsible of both murders, firmly believing that he killed both Eber and Teafa in a fit of madness. However Sister Fidelma is not so sanguine. And as she is an advocate of the law, she feels compelled to investigate matters so as to set her mind at rest. In this she is ably assissted by her friend Brother Eadulf. However the pair soon find that trying to discover the truth is no easy matter. The people of Araglin are suspicious and insular in outlook, and completely unimpressed by Fidelma's status or her mission to find out what really happened. Add to this the issues of cattle raiding and the discovery of a hidden gold mine whose legal ownership is deeply contested, and you have an intriguing and complex novel that is a treat to read.<br />My problem with the Sister Fidelma mysteries is not the dense prose style but rather the forced realtionship of Sister Fidelma and Brother Eadulf. I enjoy their verbal sparring, especially when they are arguing the merits and demerits of their respective churches (the Celtic Church &amp; the Roman Church). However for quite a while, I've sensed that Peter Tremayne is trying to force a kind of romantic realtionship between the two. Since both characters are members of religious orders, the only outcome of this would be something along the lines of the Catherine LeVendeur series by Sharan Newman, where Catherine and Edgar left their respective orders to marry. And I sincerely hope that this does not happen to Sister Fidelma as I feel her strength lies in the fact that she is a nun as well as an advocate.<br />A good mystery and an enjoyable read barring the forced attempt at romance.d attempt at romance.	2000-10-02
2262970:US	52830980	R8R21RCCZU5M3	0451201310	467948268	The Wary Widow (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	The Wary Widow	A seqeul of sorts to &quot;The Scottish Legacy&quot;. This novel is told from the point-of-view of Cornelia, the widowed Countess of Wyckend, and features Alastair Russell, last seen in &quot;The Scottish Legacy&quot; where he tried to win the legacy by trickery.<br />In this novel, Cornelia and Alastair travel to war torn France in order to bring Cornelia's young realtive, Lillian Martingale home. However first they make a slight detour to Vienna, where much to Cornelia's dismay, Lillian attracts the attention of Viscount Melton. I will not be giving too much away by revealing that Melton is a paedophile and that Cornelia had unfortunate dealing with him many years ago. Cornelia and Alastair work together to protect Lillian form Melton, and in the midst of all this danger, Cornelia finds herself falling in love with Alastair. But is her love reciprocrated?<br />This is a well written book. And it is quite easy to identify with Cornelia and her problems as it is written completely from her point-of-view. But that is also part of the problem, especially as you get very little idea of what Alastair feels or thinks  at all. That he is drawn to her is understandable as she is beautiful and elegant, and you do get a hint that he appreciates her intelligence and courage but that is all. However we do see signs of maturity and changes for the better in Alastair since &quot;The Scottish Legacy&quot;. <br />Another worrying point for me was that for some reason neither Alastair nor Cornelia bother to explain to Lillian the danger she faces at Melton's hands. And this is very puzzling as rather early on in the book Cornelia takes the time to explain human reproduction to Lillian. I think if you can explain that, then explaining what a paedophile is should not be a problem. But perhaps there would not have been much of a story if she had?<br />A good story nontheless.	2000-10-02
2266121:US	52830980	REA988JVIASSB	0312209037	898895885	The Problem of the Evil Editor: A Charles Dodgson/Arthur Conan Doyle Mystery (Charles Dodgson/Arthur Conan Doyle Mysteries)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	not a very engrossing read	I was not too impressed with this mystery novel. The mystery plot, for example, was a little weak, and it was evident rather early in the novel who the murderer was and his reasons for committing the deed. I also found that most of the characters were not that well developed at all -- in fact the murderer's character was a little more developed than the rest! But only by very little, and I'm really sorry that I've let the cat out of the bag with this piece of information.<br />I also kept getting side-tracked by all the famous (or infamous)personalities that popped up all over the book. For example, in the first chapter Beatrix Potter is despatched from the offices of the Youth's Companion in tears by the boorish behaviour of the soon-to-be-dead editor, Samuel Bassett. And I found to my dismay that I was not really following the plot so much as keeping an eye out for further such personages to creep up!<br />What I truly liked about this book was the descriptions of London during the winter and the Trafalgar Square Riots of 1886. Ms Rogow not only described this event masterfully but she also provides the reader with an intelligent and informative background to the event. I also found the subtle manner in which she presented class distinctions -- the way in which she portrayed the impact of these riots and what it meant to different people of different classes -- admirable. <br />This was not a badly written book (especially from a historical point of view); it is just a pity that so many other things got in the way of a more interesting plot that could have saved the book.	2000-09-29
2266180:US	52830980	R1JJTEQOG070OL	0451198573	372279777	Miss Chadwick's Champion (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Miss Chadwick's Champion	Life for heiress Samantha Chadwick is not a picnic. She has to marry before her next birthday or loose her inheiritance. When her dastardly cousin tries to force her into marriage, she escapes after conking him on the head. Running through the dales of Yorkshire, she comes upon a crumbling castle belonging to Lord Lindale. Tired of being courted for her money, she pretends to be suffering from amnesia, and seeks the protection of the Stavely family.<br />Gareth Stavely, the Sixteenth Baron Lindale is facing problems of his own. He has very little money, his home is falling apart and his brother Gawaine has just run up more gambling debts. The Stavely family is in danger of losing their home. What they need is for some obliging heiress to drop into their laps and rescue them. Soon the brothers discover that Samantha is an heiress and set up a kind of competition to see who will win her heart and hand. Can true love blossom with all this deception?<br />Strangely, I found myself unable to get involved with this story. Gareth Stavely is exactly the kind of regency hero that I most appreciate. A kind, responsible and thoughtful young man rather than the arrogant supercilious woman-haters we usually get. So I was really disappointed that I found myself feeling rather bored with Gareth and Samantha. Very, very disappointing.	2000-09-29
2266514:US	52830980	R2CGJX74EMR9F7	0553107348	599855363	Jane and the Stillroom Maid: Being the Fifth Jane Austen Mystery	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Jane And The Stillroom Maid	This is the darkest and best of Stephanie Barron's Jane Austen mysteries. I think Ms Barron has finally pinned down Jane Austen's voice. I was not too impressed with the first two books in the series (&quot;Jane And The Unpleasantness At Scargrave Manor&quot; &amp; &quot;Jane And The Man Of The Cloth&quot;), thinking that the Jane Austen in those two books bore very little resemblence to the Jane Austen we all know and love; but with this last novel, Stephanie Barron has the Austen voice nailed! And what a dark mystery!! Even though you'll be able to guess who the real culprit is rather early on, there is still a few twists to the plot to make the book very enjoyable. The glimpses of history, politics and the goings-on of the Devonshire House in early 1800 England only add to the novel. (And there are several descriptions of the Derbyshire countryside and certain characters that Jane Austen fans will not fail to recognise). I particularly enjoyed Jane's reflections on the many differences between the Tories and the Whigs. This book is a winner and I'm eagerly looking forward to the next installment in the Jane Austen mysteries.	2000-09-28
2268101:US	52830980	R342P1G2WTNE42	0312209150	583215833	The Ten Commandments (Chief Inspector Webb Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Ten Commandments	A well written mystery with an intriguing plot and well developed characters.<br />When the body of a dead man is discovered in the parking lot of a pub, DCI Webb is reminded of a similar case from six years ago that has yet to be resolved. But has this current murder been perpetrated by the same person or is it a case of a copy-cat killing? Both cases come under some uncomfortable scrutiny and notoriety when a well known criminologist, Frederick Mace gets involved. Mace is working on the theory that both murders were committed by different men and for different reasons entirely. And then Mace is attacked, and his study ransacked. DCI Webb is more determined than ever to resolve both cases before Mace ends up dead.<br />What makes this novel so intriguing is the different approaches that Webb and Mace use to get to the heart of the crime. Webb deals mainly with facts and a small amount of speculation, while Mace uses a more imaginative approach: his current premise is that a large part of why certain crimes are committed are because of the personalities of the victims. Using photographs of the victims, he paints an accurate picture of their characters and moves on from there to try and figure the reason why the murders were committed and who could have committed them. Another moving force of the book is the very friendly competition that builds up between Mace and the police to see who can solve the crimes first. Usually I'm on the side of the police coming out on top and I am a big DCI Webb fan, but in this instance I was totally won over by Federick Mace. Anthea Fraser has created a really charming character in Frederick Mace.<br />A good mystery and well worth reading.	2000-09-27
2268748:US	52830980	R1YJCAPGDFN2L4	0312203829	603055033	Murder Sets Seed (Bretta Solomon Gardening Mysteries)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Murder Sets Seed	Bretta Solomon has decided to begin putting her life back together after her husband's untimely death by buying the historic Beauchamp mansion and restoring it. Bretta and her flower shop staff have been working hard at decorating the house in time for the shop's annual Christmas open house. Unfortunately, a week before the event, the manipulative Cameo Beauchamp, erstwhile owner of the Beauchamp Mansion, persuades Bretta to hold a select dinner for a few friends (read River City's most upstanding citizens) so that they can have a sneak peek at the restorations.<br />Of course Cameo has an agenda of her own that she fails to appraise Bretta of! Just before dinner, Cameo drops a bombshell: someone at this ill-fated dinner party has attempted to blackmail her and she's not going to stand for it. And then dramatically, the lights go out and when they come back on, Cameo is found strangled. Bretta is all for staying out of this investigation but when the town's leading gossip columnist accuses her of the crime, Bretta goes all out to find out who did actually kill Cameo Beauchamp.<br />I enjoyed this mystery alot more than the first one (&quot;Roots Of Murder&quot;). Bretta Solomon is a charming and sympathetic woman, and I thought the other characters were developed well as well. But I really didn't understand the sheriff's attitude or hostility towards Brettta, especially as Bretta's husband had been a rather close friend. His antagonism seemed all out of proportion. Also, I had to read the last three chapters twice in order to make sense of who had committed the murder and why. And while I did understand it the second time around, I think the novel would have been stronger if there had been a few more clues strewn about in the preceding chapters.	2000-09-27
2270747:US	52830980	R30IQS2O6TQJHW	0451201329	923235584	An Uncommon Courtship (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An Uncommon Courtship	A very enjoyable read.<br />Whenever Eloise Kendall and Gregory Ward meet, an accident of some sort is sure to ensue. Eloise is sure that Gregory enjoys embarrasing her, and Gregory is unsure of how to placate the prickly Miss Kendall. The book follows their rather complicated romance as both young people begin to realise they are actually attracted to each other. However further misunderstandings prevent the love from blossoming and before the romantic miscontrusions can be untangled, Eloise's young brother is kidnapped. Will Gregory be able to save Jeremy before it's too late and salvage his romance with Eloise?<br />I think what I enjoyed most about this novel was the developing romance between Gregory and Eloise. This is a romance novel after all, so that the romance plot is predictable. But Martha Kirkland has provided the readers with a slightly older couple (not teenagers) who have hangups and preconceptions of their own that they manage to overcome in an entertaining and adult manner. Definitely a winner!	2000-09-25
2272385:US	52830980	RCLHTNN6OZ12O	0440235243	322694863	Homicide and Old Lace	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Homicide And Old Lace	Olivia Torkelson needs her grandmother's wedding dress dry cleaned and altered so that she can wear it for her own upcoming wedding. Dyer's Cleaners was recommended highly for the job, and Mandy Dyer expected nothing form this job except a big cheque. And then Mandy discovers that naive and vulnerable Olivia is marrying Mandy's womanising ex-husband! Although Mandy's natural inclination is to backout of the whole transaction, she allows herself to be persuaded that a 'job is a job' and to carry on with the alterations and to just avoid running into her sleaze bag ex-husband, Larry Landry.<br />Unfortunately, circumstances force Mandy into delivering the wedding dress personally, and this inevitably leads, several hours later, to Mandy discovering the bride-to-be in all her wedding glory dead with caddish Larry standing over the body! The police seem to have narrowed the suspects down to Larry and Mandy. And in spite of Mandy's policeman boyfriend's displeasure at her involvement, Mandy feels that she has to discover who murdered Olivia. The suspects are many-- from the second bitter ex-Mrs. Landry to Olivia's old boyfriend. Mandy first thought is that someone is trying to frame Larry; and then there is a second dead body and it looks as if someone is actually trying to frame her!<br />A good mystery and a fun read.	2000-09-24
2273342:US	52830980	RYSEZRHPEJDQ3	0312264895	874675977	The Italian Girl	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Italian Girl	A really engrossing read. This was my first DCI Michael Thackeray &amp; Laura Ackroyd mystery, and I will definitely be looking into the other books in the series. These mysteries are  worth reading.<br />In &quot;The Italian Girl&quot;, a skeleton of a young girl is unearthed in the town of Bradfield, and all indications are that it belongs to Mariella Bonnetti, who disappeared from Peter Street on Coronation Day in 1953. At first DCI Thackeray is reluctant to pursue the investigation, feeling that this may cause alot more pain for the innocent living than resolving past events. But then someone from Mariella's past is murdered and the investigation into what happened almost 50 yeras ago takes on a whole new life.<br />In the meantime, Laura Ackroyd is trying to write a feature piece on an aging Hollywood actor who is trying to make a comeback, as well looking into the sinister goings on at the nursing home her grandmother is currently laid up at because of a fall. Adding to all these headaches is the fear that her relationship with Thackeray is heading for the tubes. Laura definitely has her plate full!<br />This is a deftly written novel with good tight pacing, and enough red herrings to keep you guessing. Defintely a good read anytime of the year!	2000-09-23
2286199:US	52830980	RWUZDDE0NUHID	0345421531	999535609	Slice and Dice: A Culinary Mystery (Culinary Mysteries)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Slice And Dice	If I had been Sophie Greenway in this novel, I'd have booked a ticket for  Italy and joined her son on vacation. It's a wonder that the stress of  helping an old friend evade a murder charge and having a tenacious old  flame knocking at her her door every single moment didn't have her reaching  for Midol more ofter!<br />When restaurant and food critic for the Times  Register, George Gildemeister, decides to retire, Sophie is offered the job  and she agrees to take it on in spite of her husband's misgivings. And then  she finds George's dead body; and a friend of her father's, the owner of a  restaurant that Gildemeister had been reviewing badly is accussed of the  crime. Sophie feels that she must somehow help her friend out by  discovering who did commit the murder.<br />Added to all this is the  complication of an old love and the problems that his family is currently  facing. The Buckridges have a successful culinary empire and are currently  in Minneaploa-St. Paul looking about for a suitable spot to open another  branch of the cooking academy. On the surface the Buckridges seem like the  ideal successful all American family. But when it comes to light that an  unauthorised biography of the family's matriach is about to be written,  decades of old resentments and secrets rise to the top to threaten their  empire. But for Sophie, the threat she faces is from the memories of her  love for Nathan Buckridge, and the temptation that it poses to her  marriage.<br />I usually enjoy the Sophie Greenway mysteries, but I found that  too much was happening in this book, and that I wasn't too interested in  the Sophie-Nathan dilemma at all. I was really hooked on Marie  Damontrville, the investigation biographer, and her research into the  Buckridge past. I found myself caring a great deal as to whether or not she  survived the death threats the Buckridges levelled at her and if she  managed to finish her investigation for her book.<br />Not too bad a novel but  not quiteon par as previous novels in this series.	2000-09-12
2286804:US	52830980	R2O8D11MDMRPYD	1559705272	307950626	The Malcontenta: A Kathy Lolla and David Brock Mystery	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The Malcontenta	In spite of the rave reviews, I must have been one of the few that did not  find Barry Maitland's first Kathy and Brock mystery, &quot;The Marx  Sisters&quot;, all that wonderful. The mystery itself was promising but the  novel, in my opinion, tended to meander all over the place, and to get  bogged down at times. Having confessed to that, I'll admit that this second  Kathy and Brock mystery, The Malcontenta&quot;, is really good. Tightly  paced and with very good character and plot development, this novel really  gave you that 'at-the-edge-of-your-seat' feeling.<br />Bored with her  temporary assignment to the Family and Juvenille Crime unit, Sergeant Kathy  Kolla jumps at the chance to investigate a suspicious death at the Stanhope  Naturopathic Clinic. From the very first Kathy has to contend with the  clinic's staff and administrators whose first priority is naturally to  protect the reputation of the clinic, themeselves and their rich and  influential clients. Did the physiotherapist, Alex Petrou, commit siucide  or is it a case of murder? Things are not adding up for Kathy, and Petrou  himself seems to have been abit of a shady character. But just as it looks  as if the case is about to break, Kathy is pulled off the case and  reprimanded for incompetence.<br />Frustrated and not at all sure of what she  should do, Kathy turns to Brock for advice and help, especially when the  Petrou's death is glossed over as an unfortunate accident. Both Kathy and  Brock begin to suspect some sort of cover up that reaches into the higher  echelons of the county police. But how far up and how many are  involved?<br />This mystery novel is a truly good read. I encourage those few  who like me found &quot;The Marx Sisters&quot; disappionting to give this  novel a go. You will not be sorry.	2000-09-12
2289673:US	52830980	RJCP5YD5X49FI	0380976218	312448129	The Iceweaver	Books	4	28	28	N	N	The Iceweaver	This is an absorbing historical novel. Fans of Margaret Lawrence will  probably expect another historical mystery set in post revolutionary  America, especially as the chief female protagonist in this novel is Jennet  Trevor, Hannah Trevor's mute daughter. (Hannah Trevor is the featured  heroine of three previous mystery novels). This book however is not a  mystery novel. It is a historical novel that deals mainly with how people  pick themselves up and deal with the cards that fate has dealt them.<br />The  novel is set in 1809 in the town of New Forge in New York. The War of  Independence may be over but there is another conflict at hand. Memories  are long, and whether or not one was a patriot during the revolutionary war  still means something. As the novel begins, we are introduced both to  Jennet Trevor and John Frayne, two tortured souls. Jennet has lost her  mother, and because she is mute, she is shunned and feared. She has been  living in the forest like a wild forest creature, when she is captured by  the local parish authorities. And this is where John Frayne first comes in.  He saves Jennet from a gang rape. She is later proclaimed as a madwoman and  an indigent. John then buys her as an indentured servant.<br />John himself is  not without a history of pain and suffering. He is the son of the former  chief landholder of New Forge who was hanged as a loyalist sympathiser. Ten  years ago however he was driven out of New Forge chiefly because of his  wife's adultery and cruelty. Now he's returned in order to reclaim the  lands that should rightfully be his and his family. However his wife has  remarried and his son no longer wishes to know him. <br />Soon rumours are  flying of the supposed Frayne treasure and of a British spy at large. And  then it come to light that the current ownership of the Frayne lands could  be in dispute. What one has here are the ingredients for a disaster, almost  of biblical proportions.<br />What makes Margaret Lawrence's book memorable is  the wonderful way in which she shades each character in grey. John's wife  Hester for example. It would be simple to despise her. But under Lawrence's  skillful hands we see how confining Hester found married life, and how she  perceived childbearing as a loss of self. Also Hester's second husband at  first comes across as an uncouth indiviual, but Lawrence also portrays him  as a loving father to Frayne's son.<br />This is an absorbing book and one  that should be enjoyed like a good glass of port.	2000-09-08
2292457:US	52830980	R1YOYQ984AAP6F	0727854895	174434007	The Primrose Switchback	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Primrose Switchback	This is a really good series that is begging for better publicity. One small problem may be that it is currently being touted as a \\"cozy\\" series along the lines of a Miss Marple mystery, but it isn't \\"cozy\\" at all, and has a rather gritty and hard-boiled feel to the whole thing.<br />The series features Rosie Holland, an ex- pathologist and current agony aunt for the Skipley Chronicle. She's famous (or infamous depending on your point of view) for her 'shoot-from-the-hip\\" advice. This novel opens with the television show \\"You've Been Had\\" deciding to ambush Rosie with a fake crisis. \\"You've Been Had\\" is a show that manufactures a crisis, gives you a mini heart attack and then passes the whole affair off as a joke. Of course Rosie doesn't see the 'joke' and slugs the host of the programme while the cameras are rolling. The next thing to hit Rosie however is not news that the programme is suing Rosie for assault but that Shad Lewis, Rosie' s gardener, has been found concussed and bleeding next to a body of a young woman-- a researcher for that same infamous show.<br />At first Rosie is merely concerned for Shad's physical welfare, but then it begins to look as if he could have committed the crime. Shad is a very fragile young man with the unhappy gift of being able to psychically sense pain, fear and death; he has also suffered a nervous breakdown becasue of his'gift'. And being set up by such a show as \\"You've Been Had\\" is exactly the sort of thing that could just send him over the edge completely into madness and murder. And when it looks as if he is coming apart at the seams mentally, Rosie with the help of retired schoolteacher Alfred Prufrock tries to discover what really happened, esp since in spite of the evidence, she instinctively feels that Shad is innocent.<br />Rosie may not be everyone's cup of tea. She's loud, brash and domineering, but she's utterly charming as well. This mystery was alot more tautly written, and I enjoyed it alot more than the first, \\"The Primrose Convention\\". I think that this series deserves alot more consideration than it is currently getting, and recommend it as an enjoyable read.	2000-09-06
2294094:US	52830980	R2IB1Y8UCS8KTZ	0688158196	251233801	Kill the Shogun: A Samurai Mystery (Samurai Mysteries)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Kill the Shogun	This is a truly brilliant trilogy. I've enjoyed all three books in the  series immensely, and I think that these books-- &quot;Death At The  Crossroads&quot;, &quot;Jade Palace Vendetta&quot;; and &quot;Kill the  Shogun&quot; should be on every serious mystery lover's list as a 'must  read'. I sincerely hope that there is a series in the wings for Kaze, the  wandering samurai.<br />In &quot;Kill The Shogun&quot;, Kaze closes in on the  whereabouts of his dead overlord's daughter. He has finally tracked her to  a brothel, The Little Flower, that caters to paedophiles. However before he  can affect a rescue, he is accused of an attempt on the Shogun's  life.<br />This is a tautly written and very exciting book. There are several  brilliantly described sword fights as Kaze faces off against the Shogun's  soldiers and a group of mysterious ninjas. Kaze literally faces danger at  every corner, and there seems to be a lack of people that he can trust.  <br />An added bonus to lovers of history are the carefully sketched in  glimpses of life and culture in early seventeenth century Japan. A little  more of Kaze's history is also fleshed out so that we get to appreciate all  over again his sense of honour and integrity as well as the great sorrow he  carries with him.<br />I really like this series. And I heartily recommend all  three books. I only hope that Dale Furutani writes more adventures for  Kaze.	2000-09-05
2295079:US	52830980	R84I0FOWW7HL8	1575666278	288895006	High Seas Murder: A Lindy Haggerty Mystery	Books	3	4	4	N	N	High Seas Murder	This is quite a good follow up mystery. The Jeremy Ashe Dance Company have  agreed to do a working tour abroad a luxury cruise bound for the Carribean.  High wheeling music producer, Cameron Tyler, has come with the concept of  putting together the &quot;cultured&quot; rich with a few stars from the  world of opera and dance. Always on the look out for more money, Jeremy  Ashe has agreed to commit his dance company to the cruise.  Rehersal  director, Lindy Haggerty, is not looking forward to this working tour as  her memory of cruise ships are not of the best. And it isn't too long  before she's proved right. First a poisonous music critic literally drops  down dead at her feet; then the lecherous cabaret singer drowns under  suspicious circumstances. And no one seems to want to discover what's going  on! But when an innocent ship steward is accussed of theft and looks likely  to be fitted up for murder, Lindy and company spring into action to clear  his name.<br />As an avid mystery reader, I found this novel entertaining but  a little disconcerting. Much of the book seemed to deal with Lindy's  strange attraction for the rock star, David Beck; and whether he had a drug  habit or not. The strange behaviour of those around her were sidelined  until the last quarter of the book when the investigation into the murders  took flight.<br />Also her obsession with her weight (size eight and not a  six) was a little tiring. I know that this is important to dancers but when  it was mentioned over and over again... I felt like screaming. But I still  enjoyed the mystery.	2000-09-05
2300772:US	52830980	R27OHD0HYUR1GL	0821766880	473048343	Lord Nightingale's Love Song (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Lord Nightingale's Love Song	The blurb on the front cover of the book asks if a spinster can strike  &quot;the right note with an eligible bachelor?&quot; And that, in a  nutshell, is the plot of this novel. Plain and almost penniless Eugenia  Chastain, having spent a dismal and unhappy Season in London, returns to  the country, where she again crosses paths with the Marquess of Bradford, a  very unhappy and angry young man. Will the gentle, kind hearted and good  humoured Eugenia be able to humanise the emotionally scarred  Marquess?<br />The answer, is of course, yes. And while the novel does chart  the romantic relationship that develops between Bradford and Eugenia, the  story is mostly Bradford's. As the novel unfolds, the Marquess' unhappy  childhood and his agonising search for his twin brother are carefully  painted in; and Ms Lansdowne does a skilful job at allowing for Bradford's  emotionally &quot;thawing&quot; to take place gradually. One small note of  criticism: there were times, because of the delicate pace of the book, when  I got the distinct impression that Bradford cared much more for his horse  than he did for Eugenia. <br />It is however advisable to read &quot;Lord  Nightingale's Debut&quot; first before reading this book. Certain familial  relationships within the Chastain family; who Lord Nightingale is and how  he fits into the scheme of things (he is a parrot); and certain past events  that are alluded to, all make better sense if you have the first book for  context. With &quot;Lord Nightinglae's Love Song&quot; one gets a better  picture of the Chastain family. Also more clues are dropped as to who, what  or where &quot;Knollsmarmer&quot; may be. I believe that this is a mystery  that is to thread all four book is the series.<br />The character that steals  the show in this book (as he did in the first as well) however is Neil  Spelling, the ne'er-do-well cousin. His is a character that is supposed to  be well past redemption. However, I cannot but hope he does end up with a  book of his own and that his character is redeemed. He certainly deserves  it.<br />All in all, a pleasant read and a nice way to spend an evening.	2000-08-31
2301243:US	52830980	RIPJ3TXMQFKPY	0848823095	666091609	The Foundling	Books	5	39	41	N	N	The Foundling	Another Heyer gem! <br />Adolphus Gillespie Vernon Ware, the Duke of Sale, is tired of all the pompous trappings of his position. A mild mannered and kindly young man, he's also tired of being treated like a semi-invalid child by his family and retainers alike. Longing for an adventure, he leaps at the chance to help a young realtive who has written some unwise love letters to an unsuitable young lady, and who is now being sued for breach of promise. What follows is a series of adventures, some hilarious, a few somewhat dangerous, as the young duke comes into his own.<br />A truly excellent book. The young Duke of Sale is exactly the kind of romantic hero one wishes one read more of instead of the autocratic-almost-a-rapist &quot;hero&quot; one comes across more often in regency romances today.	2000-08-31
2301781:US	52830980	R26J1U6J1DADCW	0061003948	264717824	The Quiet Gentleman	Books	5	102	103	N	N	The Quiet Gentleman	This is one of my favourites; it is a mystery as well as a light- hearted  comedy of manners. And Georgette Heyer has managed to mix the two genres so  that the result is something quite special. <br />Having survived the  Napoleonic Wars, Gervase Frant returns home to a hostile stepmother and  half brother, both of whom feel resentful he has survived the wars and that  he is now the new Earl of St. Erth. Gervase has to contend with open  hostility and challenges to his authority. Adding to all this are the  attempts on his life! But Gervase sails through all this with the quiet  civility, good humour and charm which define the Georgette Heyer hero and  which fans have come to expect in her work.<br />In Gervase Frant we have the  classic Heyer hero, and he is evenly matched with the quintessential Heyer  heroine, Drusilla Moreville, a quiet, sensible and very capable young  lady.<br />I enjoyed reading this book for the first time 20 years ago, and I  still enjoy rereading it, There's nothing that quite compares with a good  Georgette Heyer novel, especially during bleak winter nights.	2000-08-30
2307420:US	52830980	RAA3S57P7A48P	0312266324	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	5	117	120	N	N	A Place Of Execution	This is by far the best novel I've read all year! Not only does it possess an intriguing and tightly paced plot, but it also boasts of a prose style and language that will be appreciated by readers everywhere.<br />The mystery takes place in the early 1960s in the small close-knit northern village of Scardale-- a community that appears to be cut off from the modern world. A young 13 year old girl, Alison Carter, has gone missing. The back drop to this is the disappearance of two other children from other northern towns.  Tensions mount as the police try to figure out if there is some kind of link between the three cases, and if there is a mad man at work; or if Alison's disappearance is a one off and the work of someone closer to home and equally sinister.  DCI George Bennett, who heads the search/investigation for the missing girl, realises that he's not only facing a time constraint to finding her alive but also the insular distrusting attitude of the villagers, who may because of their suspicious natures be hindering the investigation.<br />The book is divided into two parts. The first section deals with the police investigation of Alison's disappearance; and later as they begin to doubt ever finding her alive, the search for her killer. We also get a look at how the police put their case together for the Crown, and the trial. The second part of the book takes place in the late 1990s when, a reporter, Catherine Heathcote, decides to write a book about Alison.<br />I was totally engrossed with this book.  Cooking and eating dinner took a definite backseat as I delved into the twists and turns of the novel. And there was a plot twist unlike anything I've ever read before. I really enjoyed this book immensely and recommend it highly to anyone to enjoys mysteries. Sadly, novels of this caliber do not come often enough. This is a definite gem, and worthy of the five star rating.	2000-08-26
2307952:US	52830980	R18KWTGCY7OMCV	0312205627	548913161	The Merchant's House-A Wesley Peterson Mystery	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Merchant's House	I like this series immensely. There are three books out so far (the last one &quot;Unhallowed Grave&quot; has only recently been published in the UK); and in all three mysteries, Kate Ellis blends a contemporary mystery with that of a historical one. And she does it brilliantly. You know that the solution to one will link you with the solution to the other, and it makes for an enjoyable and interesting read to see if you, the reader, can see the solution before either Sgt Wesley Peterson of the Tradmouth CID, or Neil Watson of the County Archaeological Unit.<br />In this instance, Tradmouth CID is stretched thin trying to find a missing child and solve the murder of an unidentified young woman whose face has been horribly disfigured. Meanwhile, the County Archaeological Unit while escavating a 17th century house make a grissly find: the skeletons of a baby and an adult from that period. The intuitive reader will at once realise that both mysteries are linked in some way. But how?<br />The central motif of this mystery in that of the relationship between mother and child. What a woman feels at her failure to conceive a child; the fear of losing a child; and how she copes with the death of a child.<br />This is a really good series with great characters. My only complaint is that with all these interesting personalities-- Patterson, Watson et al-- the book seems hardly long enough to give them each the focus they deserve. However this series is a winner and I recommend all the three books.	2000-08-25
2311815:US	52830980	R2N1P4KF124RUH	0373834462	372958735	Cousin Kate	Books	5	31	34	N	N	Cousin Kate	No one can compare to Georgette Heyer. Many try to emulate her style, but practically no one has mastered it. And in spite of her troublesome tendency to marry off naive young girls barely out of the schoolroom to older sophisticated men of the world; and her frequent portrayal of the middle and merchant classes as uncultured, uncouth and grasping, perpetually trying to curry favour with the upper classes; she is still one of my favourite authours.<br />With this novel, Heyer abandons somewhat the comedy of manners that she is so well known for and enters the darker realm of the gothic novel. The heroine of the piece is Kate Malvern, a penniless orphan, who has just lost her latest job as a governess and her home. An aunt that she knows little of offers her a home at Staplewood Manor. Her aunt, Minerva Broome, wants Kate to act as a companion and friend to her young cousin, Torquil, who happens to be a charming and clever young man but who is troubled by frequent mood swings and bouts of depression. All too soon Kate discovers that all is not well at Staplewood Manor. There is an atmosphere of secrecy and deception. And Kate soon finds that she doesn't know whom to trust or what to do.<br />In Kate Malvern, Heyer has created a witty, courageous and gallant heroine that engages the reader. The avid Georgette Heyer fan may miss the lively light hearted romps she is most famous for, but I can recommend this book as a wonderful read, especially for its gallant heroine.	2000-08-23
2312601:US	52830980	RDERMKJ57GSCZ	0451200403	582126397	Miss Tibbles Investigates	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Miss Tibbles Investigates	Miss Tibbles, former governess, now happily married to Col. Merriweather,  is back!!<br />At the request of a former charge, Lady Fairchild, Mrs.  Merriweather goes to Kendall Hall for a visit. Almost as soon as she  arrives, she senses that all is not well. There is an air of unease and  secrecy at Kendall Hall. And everyone seems to have something to hide! Lady  Fairchild is afraid that her husband may be having an affair; Lord  Fairchild is receiving threatening letters; Pamela Fairchild must hide her  love for her childhood playmate, Julian Deerwood, and welcome the woman he  loves, Catherine Winley. And what is Catherine Winley hiding? And then on  the night of the ball, a man who could pass for Lord Fairchild's twin is  found murdered.<br />Adding to all, Mrs. Merriweather also has to contend with  the snobbish behaviour of the inhabitants of Kendall Hall, both above and  below stairs, because of her former profession as a governess. Things are  definitely not easy for formerly formidible Miss Tibbles this time!  Nonetheless, she does manage to solve the mystery and untangle all the  romantic entanglements.<br />A fun read, and the fact that it was easy to  figure out the murderer and his motives does not detract at all. But too  much happpened all at once. Everything tied together nicely in the end, but  if there had been fewer secrets, it might have made a little easier  reading.	2000-08-22
2313493:US	52830980	R1VM3D224LK68R	0451200969	709988366	The Major's Mistake (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	13	14	N	N	The Major's Mistake	This story line is a pet peeve of mine, and somehow seems to be popular with romance writers! <br />The very married &quot;hero&quot; of the piece seemingly finds his wife in a compromising position; and in spite of the fact that she has not given him any reason to doubt her integrity, he ups and divorces her, leaving her to somehow survive in a society which does not condone divorce at all. Now, years later he returns, finds that he has a son and demands that he have access to the boy. (One wonders if the desire to know the child would be there if he had fathered a daughter). Along the way, nice for our &quot;hero&quot;, he discovers that he still has feelings for his &quot;errant&quot; wife, and that he has wronged her terribly. And lo and behold, some 200 odd pages later, the wife has overcome her better instincts, remembered her love, and takes him back.<br />Come on, real women demand ... alot more. And contrary to popular belief, the women of the regency period were alot more feisty and demanding than everyone seems to believe!<br />I have enjoyed all of Andera Pickens' previous novels, and this one is well written. However I wish she had allowed for more time to have lapsed before things resolved so happily at the end-- like perhaps 2 to 3 years!	2000-08-21
2313795:US	52830980	R2VXJP0M21UNS4	0786707577	944744745	An English Murder	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An English Murder	A really good mystery novel. The book started out being deceptively slow,  and so I was not really expecting much. Imagine my surprise when I  discovered I had actually stayed up well into the early morning hours in my  eagerness to read more. <br />At the heart of this mystery is Gemma, the  missing teenage daughter of the murdered couple. Is she another victim of  the murderer/s or is she somehow involved? Another focus of the novel is  Alison Akenside, an ambitious reporter of the local newspaper,and longtime  inhabitant of the quiet village, Rutland.<br />This is a book that draws you  into the closed world Alison and Gemma. It's a novel about families: the  tensions within, and what people see or refuse to see. The two storylines  juxtapose and merge seamlessly. We get to see the realtionships that both  Alison and Gemma have with their respective families, and the atmosphere in  both cases is distintively jarring and stifling.<br />Definitely one of the  best mysteries I have read this year.	2000-08-21
2315956:US	52830980	R3OOJSR2F31KQT	0821766740	201673319	Lady Delafont's Dilemma (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Lady Delafont's Dilemma	I was really disappointed with this book. I had enjoyed the first book so  much and was really looking forward to reading Lady Delafont's story. What  a letdown! I know that married couples can grow estranged because of a lack  of communication, but this story was a bit of much. Did none of the more  sympathetic relatives/friends never think of stepping in and shaking this  couple (esp the husband). The only justification I can find for this story  is that it seems to serve as a conduit to the next installment. Lady May, a  character that crops quite prominently in the first two novels, is I  believe to be the main character in the next book. And as she has proved to  be a more  interesting character than Lady Delafont, I will probably wait  to read the next book, and hope that the story is worthy of the lady.	2000-08-19
2316808:US	52830980	R24T66X2D2XZA4	0425175111	449606044	A Stitch in Time (Needlecraft Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Stitch in Time	Betsy Devonshire, the new owner of The Crewel World, has suddenly become the victim of a series of nasty accidents. Could it all be coincidence? Or could it have something to do with the sudden appearance of her ex-husband? Or perhaps it might actually have something to do with her charitable impulse to donate the materials neccesary to repair the damage done to a lovely piece of tapestry recently discovered at the local Episcopal church...<br />This is a mystery novel that really involved reader response! I groaned out loud each time Besty took a wrong turn when investigating who was out to get her. And even though it was fairly obvious who the culprit was, I'd still recommend this book (and series) as an enjoyable \\"cozy\\" worth curling up .	2000-08-19
2316941:US	52830980	R6OOJQ73W9IOH	0451201388	669470815	The Selfless Sister (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Selfless Sister	This novel had all the ingredients of the gothic genre perfected by  Victoria Holt: a beautiful but penniless young lady, Lucinda Linley, goes  to become companion to her aunt in a household run by the despotic eldest  son; an old tragedy that has haunted her aunt's family and created a rift  with a neighbouring family in the county; thwarted lovers... And yet this  book does not read as a gothic at all. <br />The despotic cousin does not  inspire fear so much as anger, and one wonders at how he was able to  acquire his power over his family without their willing help; and that  leads one to ask why they allowed things to become so bad in the first  place! The reader's sympathies are fully engaged with Lucinda who has to  grit her teeth and bear with the petty tryanny in order not to make matters  worse. How I wanted to shake all of Lucinda's female realtives!<br />Lucinda  is an intrepid heroine and I really liked her, but the other characters  were a bit two- dimensional. However I liked the fact that while the novel  had all the devices of a gothic plot, Shirley Kennedy took a more  matter-of-fact approach, that reminded me of Jane Austen's handling of  &quot;Northanger Abbey&quot;. A good read.	2000-08-19
2319238:US	52830980	R1UIEW1SKMR0A0	0312168330	498008572	A Psalm for Falconer (William Falconer Medieval Mystery)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Psalm For Falconer	This is one of the best in the series! Access to some rare texts of Aristotle tempts Master William Falconer away from the petty intrigues of  Oxford to Furness Abbey, near the shifting sands of Lancaster Bay. As  usual, Falconer stumbles onto a twenty year old mystery that, to his dismay  takes up his time that he feels could be more usefully spent reading  Aristotle.<br />I enjoy mysteries that allow the reader to appreciate the  history and culture of the times; and this mystery is rich in both. The  mystery is intriguing and the description of the treacherous shifting sands  and the remote abbey adds to the fearful atmosphere. A truly enjoyable  read.	2000-08-17
2319633:US	52830980	RU7T1354JX2CM	0747259518	834985892	The Leper's Return (Knights Templar)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	fantastic historic detail makes this a good read	Another triumph for Michael Jecks! In \\"The Leper's Return,\\" Michael Jecks introduces us to the world of the outcast lepers, the  people who care for them and the fear, ignorance and prejudices that the  populace at large feels towards them.<br />The threat of a civil war is looming, but the people of Credition are more concerned about the murder of the goldsmith, Godfrey of London, and the grevious assault on his daughter, Cecily. Many seem to think that John of Irlaunde, a womaniser of some notoriety is responsible. But Sir Baldwin Furnshill, the Keeper of the King's Peace, is not so sure. And together with his good friend and companion in detecting, Bailiff Simon Puttock, the duo are determined to get to the bottom of this perplexing murder. However, adding to the tension is the sudden rise in bad feeling that is being aroused in the populance of Credition towards the lepers. Will Sir Baldwin and Simon also have to deal with the possiblilty of a massacre? Or will good sense prevail?<br />If you're looking for something that is a little more than a mere historical mystery novel, Michael Jecks's Medieval West Country mystery series is the one for you. The novels are always well written, with plots that will capture your imagination, and characters that will engage interest and compassion. And I thoroughly enjoyed reading \\"The Leper's Return,\\" I have noticed that the series may not be everyone's cup of tea. But if you enjoy mystery novels rich in historical detail and atmosphere and character portrayals that are rich and fully realised, I'd urge you to give the West country Mysteries a go.	2000-08-17
2329121:US	52830980	R1VAKD4O4VOCMU	0747259526	19214315	Squire Throwleigh's Heir (Knights Templar)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Squire Throwleigh's Heir	A good mystery, although it did tend to get bogged down at times. Not as  intriguing as the previous mysteries in the series but enjoyable  nontheless. Part of the problem I suspect is that few of the characters are  likeable; it is especially difficult to feel any real empathy for Lady  Katherine, who looses both her husband and son in a matter of days. However  the book is rich in detail and atmosphere, and is, as I had already noted a  rather good mystery.	2000-08-10
2329310:US	52830980	RMRW9CBRLTD5T	0747263612	527663290	Belladonna at Belstone (Knights Templar)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Belladonna At Belstone	A young nun at St. Mary's Priory dies whilst in care at the infirmary; the prioress of the nunnery is struggling to retain her position in spite of  accusations of immorality and fraud. The Keeper of the King's Peace, Sir  Baldwin Furnshill and Bailiff Simon Puttock are called in to investigate  the charges. And in the midst of all this mayhem, another nun is murdered.  This mystery lives up to expectations. There are enough twists and turns to  keep an avid mystery lover happy and satisfied.<br />Michael Jecks' West  Country mysteries have always been a favourite of mine and I'm always  delighted when a new one is published! Definitely a series to be collected  and enjoyed again and again.	2000-08-10
2334051:US	52830980	R2PX7Q3QSUO7SC	0786707623	302657251	Sleep of Death: A Shakespearean Murder Mystery	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Sleep of Death	This was a truly great read! Nick Revill, an aspiring actor with the  Chamberlin's Men, investigates the death of a wealthy landowner, who seems  to have died in a fashion similar to that of Hamlet's father. Is art  imitating fiction or is there something more sinister afoot? Lovers of  historical mysteries will quite naturally look for similarites between this  work and that of Edward Marston's Nicholas Bracewell series. And while  there is very little rollicking humour in Philip Gooden's book, I can truly  recommend this book for it's tight plot and dark intrigue, that keeps you  guessing as to whether or not a murder was committed and if so, who did it.	2000-08-07
