3131:US	52850806	R2HRGTCVV7KKPI	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Interesting but very very dense	This book turned out to be a total surprise to me. To look at the cover you'd think this was the book version of a made-for-TV movie about that evil group the Taliban, probably starring several of Hollywood's younger stars and with a formulaic plot that starts out irrelevant and only gets worse. Funny thing, when you get past the cover, there's a lot more inside this book than you'd expect. <br /> <br />Ahmed Rashid turns out to be a serious, balanced journalist, with a very objective point of view and an almost unblinking eye for the misdeeds of governments and individuals. He has written for years for the Far Eastern Economic Review, and while there coined the phrase \\"New Great Game\\" to describe the competition between the United States and Russia over Central Asia's gas and oil resources and the transport corridors to move these to market. This book is the product of his writing about the region for most of the period covered, and appears to have been constructed from the ground up: there's no disclaimer in the front telling you that part of this book was originally an article in a periodical somewhere. <br /> <br />The book was finished prior to 9/11. In fact, even the USS Cole bombing hadn't happened yet when he finished writing, so the references to Osama bin Laden restrict themselves to crediting him with the East African embassy bombings in the late 90s. This means the reader gets a valuable look at the Taliban and by extension Al Quaeda before we all had our opinions of them colored by the attacks of 9/11. Interestingly, the book in this regard only reinforces the opinion I already held: the Taliban were lunatics who had no clue how to run a government and respect other people's rights, and were uninterested in learning. <br /> <br />If I have a quarrel with the book it's the writing style. The author is a journalist, but he doesn't write for Newsweek or the Washington Post. His sentences are long and full of either unneccessary commas or missing ones, making the phrasing hard to follow, and sometimes his thoughts are difficult to discern. Throughout the book he abbreviates things, and since he only once tells you what the abbreviations stand for, it can get a bit confusing. A glossary of abbreviations and terms would have been a good idea. The print is small and the pages are full of type: the margins (especially the bottom one) are among the smallest I've ever seen professionally printed. Though this book is only 200+ pages, it is actually much longer than that would make it appear. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book a great deal, and other than the difficult prose I would recommend it to anyone interested in the subject.	2005-10-12
12555:US	52850806	R2601HRETEGK02	0393051196	756879123	Persian Pilgrimages: Journeys Across Iran	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Fascinating book on modern Iran	This is another of these travel books where the author (typically a journalist, in this case an Iranian-American who writes for the Washington Post) goes to a country, travels around, meets and interviews people, and tells you about them, and their country. In this case, the author spent two years in his native country of Iran, making a series of pilgrimages to various shrines that commemorate religious leaders, fallen soldiers, and so forth. He talks with everyone from the guy who sells fruit in a stall in Tehran to computer engineers who wish to emigrate to veterans of Iran's war with Iraq. In between he gives you brief histories of the various regions and personalities that people Iran's history. <br /> <br />The writing here is very good, and the subject matter is fascinating. I didn't know, for instance, that there was a Jewish community left in Iran. I also was pretty surprised by the number of religious clerics who don't approve of the way the Ayatollahs are running the country, and that some of them are of the opinion that involvement in politics corrupts those involved (looking at modern American politics would tend to confirm that, I think). There are many interviews with various people who reflect differing points of view in Iranian culture, politics, and life. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book a great deal. The author is careful not to take sides, pointing out that during the Shah's reign there were many drawbacks in Iranian life, and that the Ayatollahs haven't been able to cure the problems, and in fact have probably increased them. Though the book is dogged by a few typos here and there, it didn't bother me enough to bring things to the level of subtracting a star, and frankly the subject and content are very interesting.	2005-10-07
16485:US	52850806	R3JNYNTLUCMN47	0060505273	18957388	The Sewing Circles of Herat: A Personal Voyage Through Afghanistan	Books	5	5	5	N	N	In the great tradition of British Travel Writers	Over the years, there have been many writers (mostly British for some reason) who travel the world, writing about what they see and who they meet. They usually sprinkle the story of their travels with bits of trivia, anecdotes of inconveniences they encounter, accounts of recent events from people they meet, and brief historical accounts of the areas they visit. Among the past figures who have written in this vein are Rebecca West (Black Lamb, Grey Falcon) and   (more recently) Paul Theroux. Christina Lamb, a British journalist, apparently aspires to membership in this group: if this book is any indication, she should be a shoo-in. <br /> <br />Lamb travelled to Afghanistan in the late 80s and spent a couple of years there as a correspondent. She made friends with various mujaheddin who were fighting against the Soviets and their Communist allies. She spent a good deal of time with a group that she knew as the \\"Mullahs on Motorbikes,\\" a bunch of religious fanatics who were fearless in their opposition to the Communist regime. These fighters later morphed into the Taliban (which name merely means religious students in Pashto) and ran the country. Though she didn't ever meet Mullah Omar, their leader, she was acquainted with several of his important subordinates. She was also rather close to Hamid Karzai, who's now the President of the country. <br /> <br />Fast forward 12 or so years. Lamb has done other things (she mentions at one point visiting the Amazon rainforest), but when 9/11 happens, she decides to return to Afghanistan and see if she can meet her old friends and acquaintances, and catch up on what's been going on since, and what's likely to happen in the future. She visits Herat (where the sewing circles were literature classes for women, banned by the Taliban and so disguised) and other cities in Afghanistan, and also travels around Pakistan interviewing people who were involved in Afghan politics in the last 15 years or so. <br /> <br />The result is a sort of a stew of everything you might expect to read in such a book. From stories of kites being banned, and why, to the fellow trying to wash the blood out of the ground at the Kabul football stadium, to the poet who resisted the Taliban by writing subversive poetry, and the fellow who owns the only convertible car in Kabul, this is a somewhat whimsical tour of a war-ravvaged country full of people who are scarred, wounded, and yet strangely optimistic. It's illustrated with photos (some by the author, some by a photographer she took with her on her second trip, and a few by others) that are throughout the book, and also in an illustration section in the center. It isn't well-organized, and Lamb's eccentric British prose might be a bit jarring to American ears, but the overall result is quite entertaining, and frankly rather informative at the same time. I highly enjoyed this book, and would recommend it.	2005-10-04
22115:US	52850806	R1DQI5V0WMQ6SW	0060955376	389452453	Chain of Command: The Road from 9/11 to Abu Ghraib (P.S.)	Books	2	15	31	N	N	Inconsistent and negative	Seymour Hersh is famous for having broken the My Lai story back in the Viet Nam era, and winning a Pulitzer (an unusual thing for a freelancer) for the reporting he did surrounding the incident. For those whose memory doesn't run back that far (I was 10 at the time, though I know about it) American soldiers killed about 500 VietNamese civilians in one afternoon, and the only people ever prosecuted for the killings were the enlisted men involved, and a single very junior officer. Hersh was especially critical of the military for not working their way up the high command prosecuting other, more senior officers for their roles in at the least not preventing the massacre. <br /> <br />Shift forward almost three and a half decades. Hersh is now a highly respected reporter. He worked for a period for the New York Times, and currently writes for the New Yorker magazine. In 2004 he was the lead reporter at the New Yorker to get the pictures from Abu Ghraib Prison (60 Minutes II had some pictures also, and ran them concurrently with the New Yorker). Hersh, of course, reported on the abuses, and the result of that reporting, and more on the war in general, is this book, mostly compiled from what he's written in the past. <br /> <br />Collections of articles are often uneven things that wind up telling you not enough about something you're interested in, and too much about something you aren't. They also suffer from the fact that the original pieces were written to stand alone. This results in certain things--pacing, content, etc.--being written as for a short piece. When you hang them together, the effect can be somewhat disconcerting. It's like watching a DVD of half a dozen episodes of a TV show, all at once. Since they were made to be watched individually rather than back to back, they don't work as well in tandem as they did apart. Hersh's books suffers more than most of this type, for several reasons. <br /> <br />The largest difficulty is in terms of consistency. Hershis a muckraker, and that means he rakes all the muck he can find, regardless of its content. This leads to some rather silly things, if you read the pieces that he wrote, back to back. In one piece on Afghanistan, an unnamed Air Force officer (the book is full of unnamed sources) tells Hersh that Rumsfeld and the Pentagon don't understand air power, and should have let the Air Force flatten the Taliban and Al Quaeda. A few pages later, in the next piece, an unnamed Marine officer says essentially the exact opposite--the Pentagon was stupid, and allowed the Air Force to spray ordnance around Afghanistan with no regard for the collateral damage or effectiveness. Hersh's perspective is to include everyone who's critical of the Administration, regardless of what it is that they say. So he's essentially deaf to the interservice and historical aspects of these quotes: Marines have despised the Air Force and their habit of trying to bomb everyone into oblivion at least as far back as Viet Nam, and the Air Force has been protesting that no one understands how important they are ever since Billy Mitchell was court martialled for saying essentially that back in the 20s. <br /> <br />There are other inconsistencies. The war in Afghanistan is dismissed as a complete failure that's been hidden from the American public by an elaborate coverup, but the planners of the war were made overconfident by their success there (I thought they failed?) when they turned to Iraq. Rumsfeld and the White House are criticized for relying on the CIA for intelligence prior to 9/11, then Rumsfeld is criticized for trying to create a new intelligence capability within the Pentagon. It goes on like this for almost 400 pages. <br /> <br />Hersh does make some good points. His centerpiece, the discussion of Abu Ghraib, doesn't pull any punches, and the central point--that the soldiers involved shouldn't be the only ones punished--is reasonable, if somewhat quixotic. Unfortunately, that's not how the military works, these days. The section on the Saudi royal family is also good--it's been an open secret for years that the whole nation of Saudi Arabia is run for the benefit of the family, and the government's funds are essentially at the disposal of the family. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, the book is overwhelmed by the other material, and is very inconsistent and negative. Hersh's bias is pretty much out in the open, and it detracts badly from the book.	2005-10-01
35076:US	52850806	R12DIMDYN9SJWN	0425120953	471707173	I Was a Stranger - General Sir John Hackett	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very British--Drags a bit in the middle	This is the memoir of then Brigadier John Hackett, later General Sir John Hackett, NATO army commander and senior British army general in the sixties. During World War II, Hackett was a very young Brigadier in the British 1st Parachute Division, commanding the 4th Parachute Brigade. In the latter stages of the Battle for Arnhem, he was gravely wounded, and left behind when the British forces retreated because moving him might have been fatal. <br /> <br />Instead, he was left in a hospital, where the Germans allowed British medical personnel to look after him without knowing how senior he was. After a week or so, he was spirited out of the hospital, and spent the next five months hiding in German-occupied Holland with various families, but mostly with one, the de Nooij clan. These were relatively well-to-do business owners who had no real business hiding someone like Hackett, but saw it as their Christian duty to do so, and followed that. Eventually he escaped to the south and the safety of the British lines, once he'd recuperated enough. <br /> <br />The main difficulty of the book is that for the five months or so of his sojourn in enemy occupied Holland, he essentially didn't do much. So we get an account of the books he read, exercises he did (he chopped and sawed a lot of wood) and the occasional person he or the family met. When he does escape the Germans, the action picks up a bit, but there's much about the journey that exhaustion apparently erased. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book a fair bit, but it does drag some in the middle. Hackett is so very very British it's wonderful (perhaps the best part of the book). He has to have his silver pen and cigarette case to jump into combat, and when some German soldiers want to surrender, he must first find his walking stick! The whole thing is told modestly, with more than a bit of that British pluck which is so famous. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the subject.	2005-09-25
38034:US	52850806	R2KYW5D78VOBPL	0143034901	734819982	The Shadow of the Wind	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Literary and satisfying, and very very good	This is one of the best books I've read in years, right up there with the Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time. It's a wonderfully atmospheric novel, full of interesting characters, strange occurences, weird locales, with a beautifully rendered city of Barcelona, ca. 1950, appearring as a backdrop.<br /><br />Daniel Sempere is the only son of the owner of a used bookshop. They live alone above the shop, Daniel's mother having passed away before the story begins. One day, Daniel's father takes him to a mysterious place, the fabled Cemetary of Lost Books, and invites him to choose a book, with the intention of protecting it for the rest of his life. The book Daniel chooses is, by accident, more endangered than most books. It's a semi-romantic novel titled The Shadow of the Wind, by an obscure novelist from Barcelona named Julian Carax. Carax was the piano player in a Parisian whorehouse by day, and a writer in the evenings, and this was his last and worst-selling novel. Strangely, someone's been roaming Spain and France looking for copies of it or Carax's other books, with the intent of destroying them, typically by burning them. Daniel has taken on more than he knows, and the adventure he's about to embark on will last years.<br /><br />The characters, plot, and incidents of this novel are too many to sing all of their praises here. Suffice it to say that there is much to recommend this book, and it's as near as I've ever seen to flawless. I don't speak Spanish, so I can't tell you how good the translation is in rendering Sr. Zafon's book into English, but I *can* tell you that the finished product Lucia Graves presents to the reader is wonderful. Other reviewers here complain that the prose isn't poetic enough: they must have read a different book from the one I read. I can't sing its praises highly enough.	2005-09-23
48492:US	52850806	RVDOCL8CIVLW6	076032199X	602004726	Jimmy Stewart: Bomber Pilot	Books	3	25	32	N	N	Memorable career; less memorable book	Jimmy Stewart was in the Air Force. I knew that; it's not a big secret. He was a general; again, I knew that, it's not a secret either. But he served in combat, at a time when he didn't have to, and was something of a hero. *That* was news to me, and frankly I'm somewhat surprised at how far into the warzone he got, and what he was able to do once he got there. <br /> <br />Stewart led 20 missions over Germany and occupied Europe during World War II, and flew one during the early days of the Viet Nam War, also (truly a surprise to me). He was apparently regarded by the other officers and men of the various outfits he served with as intelligent, brave, and very cool under fire, in addition to being more than a bit lucky. You'd think this last would make people jealous, but in a war, the reaction instead is to try and get next to the lucky guy, be on his plane or in his orbit: if he's lucky, if you're next to him maybe you will be too. <br /> <br />Unfortunately Starr Smith's book doesn't really measure up to Stewart's career. The author conducted a few interviews, but only a few, and sprinkled the story with his own recollections of Stewart. The two served together in England for a while: Stewart was Operations Officer of a Bomber Wing, and Smith was the Intellgence Officer. There is not much in the book about the actual missions he flew or anything like that: the mission to Berlin (probably his most dangerous) is described in perhaps a page. Since the author apparently realizes that this will leave readers thinking the book a bit thin, there's a lot of padding. One completely extraneous portion is a chapter on Dwight Eisenhower in Louisiana, which has almost nothing to do with the rest of the story. The last fifty or sixty pages of the book is a mishmash of recollections, appendices, short bios of people Stewart knew, and letters the author received about Stewart. Much of it repeats what's already in the text. <br /> <br />The book does have the virtue of having 64photographs in it. I guess Stewart was shy, but couldn't prevent people from taking his photo. While the book overall does perform a useful service in informing people as to Jimmy Stewart's combat record during World War II, it also isn't that readable or interesting.	2005-09-18
51586:US	52850806	R3IDL0QQIEP441	0312997280	688647970	Deep Pockets (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Diverting if not earthshattering	Carlotta Carlyle has been Linda Barnes' female private eye main character for almost two decades now. The tall (6'1\\") redheaded former cop and part-time cabbie is a well-liked character in private eye fiction, and in this latest outing she's hired to figure out who's trying to blackmail a Harvard professor over his affair with a student, and of course stop the blackmailers once she finds out who they are.  <br /> <br />There are the usual Carlotta sideplots: Roz, the very alternative upstairs tenant/assistant with tattoos, weird boyfriends, and a spacy attitude towards everything; Sam, the mafia boyfriend she can't seem to get rid of; Paolina, her little \\"sister\\" who's grown up waaaaay too fast and dresses like she's grown up even more, etc. They're all entertaining, and there's an interesting twist to the story that I will confess I didn't see coming. I enjoyed the book and would recommend it.	2005-09-16
55267:US	52850806	R1E7SCL0QMWAMG	0743246136	46928538	Steel My Soldiers' Hearts: The Hopeless to Hardcore Transformation of U.S. Army, 4th Battalion, 39th Infantry, Vietnam	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Excellent, a pretty much unique soldier	David Hackworth has emerged the last decade or so as probably the best soldier to have served in VietNam, especially among those who left the army at the war's end and became critics of the American military. He had the proverbial bucket of medals, more wounds than two or three other typical vets combined, and was an outspoken advocate of his soldiers' welfare, and of effectively fighting and winning the war. This book chronicles one of his most stellar acheivements: the transformation of \\"the worst battalion in the Army\\" into Hackworth's \\"Hardcore Recondo\\", a unit which repeatedly bested the VC, in four short months. It's vintage Hackworth, replete with profanity and obscenity, merciless judgements of those around him, and Hackworth's relentlyess search for effeciency, alertness, and competent ways of doing things at all levels of the army. <br /> <br />There are many comparisons of David Hackworth to other American soldiers. Most of the comparisons surround battlefield heroes like Audie Murphy and Alvin York. Frankly I don't think those are valid. While Murphy was an officer, in the action for which he is best remembered he sent his platoon to the rear to safety, and acted as an individual, and York of course was the classic loner. No, I think the best comparison with an American soldier from history (this will be sacrilege to some, on both sides) is with a Marine rather than a member of the Army. I'm talking about Chesty Puller. For those who aren't familiar, Puller served in Haiti, Nicaragua, WW2, and Korea, and won a record five Navy Crosses. He was almost religious in caring for the Marines under his command, scathing when he thought his superiors weren't performing up to his standards, and downright mean when he caught subordinates demeaning or humiliating \\"the men\\". Any of this sound familiar? <br /> <br />Anyway, I really enjoyed this book, and would recommend it to anyone interested in the subject of fighting and winning wars. It's one of the best books onthe subject, and very real. You feel as if you're really there, and Hackworth's narrative is helped along nicely by interspersed interviews (done by his wife, the co-author) with various other members of the unit. Very very good book.	2005-09-14
59435:US	52850806	R5GBAKK43NF2F	1591020662	294548594	Billy Heath: The Man Who Survived Custer's Last Stand	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Interesting but unsubstantiated story	Custer's Last stand is one of the most famous events in American History. Supposedly all 210+ men in the five companies that accompanied him to attack the village on the Little Bighorn river died along with him, but legends have persisted ever since that there were survivors. The current book is an attempt to prove that one man did survive: William Heath, a farrier (horse handler) in Company L of the 7th Cavalry. <br /> <br />The difficulty is that the author has little proof for his story beyond the bare bones of tax records and army enlistment papers. Records don't always tell the whole story, and in some cases the facts they present are completely inaccurate. Here those records seem to show that Heath entered the USA in 1872 from England, enlisted in the army in 1875, fought at the Little Bighorn and was killed, and then reappearred the next year in Pennsylvania at his home and lived for another dozen or so years, fathering half a dozen children in the meanwhile. <br /> <br />The difficulty with the above is that there are major discrepancies which the author either ignores or unconvincingly explains away. For one thing, Heath was a coal miner for much of the period 1872-5, then became a policeman working for the coal company. In 1872 he was illiterate, and made his mark on his citizenship papers. In 1875 he signs his name (with a beautiful flowing script) on his enlistment papers. When did he find time to learn to read and write? Another circumstance which the author ignores is that Heath's reason for leaving his home and enlisting in the army was that the Molly Maguires (violent proto-Union coalminers) threatened him. A few pages later, the author tells you that the Mollies cut off the ears of those they wanted to threaten, but not kill. Later still, he tells you that Heath had part of one ear cut off during his service with the 7th Cavalry. However, he never makes the obvious conclusion that perhaps he lost the ear in a confrontation with the Mollies as opposed to a fight with the Sioux. <br /> <br />I think, from the available evidence presented by the author, that it's equally likely that Heath fled home after one of the Mollies cut his ear off, and that somehow someone else from the area took his name for some reason and used it when they entered the army. This would account for him learning to read, and explain how he could reappear after being killed at the Little Bighorn. He simply wasn't there. One thing the author doesn't explain at all: after the battle, Heath supposedly was found and nursed back to health by a family of settlers, and made his way home. The Mollies, in the meanwhile, had been broken up and sent to jail or the gallows. How did Heath, out on the frontier, receive word that it was safe to go home? My suspicion is he was holed up in Philadelphia or New York City, and read about it in the paper. <br /> <br />Another difficulty of the book is that since there's so little evidence, the author feels the need to pad things with extraneous information, to flesh out his story. As a result we get a painfully amateurish history lesson, replete with politically correct silliness and psychohistory. Everything from a half-baked psychoanalysis of Custer to Andrew Carnegie's nickname for John D. Rockefeller is included. Not exactly what I was expecting or looking for. <br /> <br />All in all, this is an interesting theory, but it's far from fully supported by the meager documentation the author has. He only has one photograph of the man (only reproduced on the front cover of the book) and hardly anything else about him is available. This leaves the premise way more thin than it should be for the author to make such a claim with the certainty that he exhibits.	2005-09-12
65551:US	52850806	R2JEB9SZKD7BEQ	0060763418	821563718	One Soldier's Story: A Memoir	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Quick and easy, though a bit depressing at times	Bob Dole is what you call a true American hero. He was in college when the war started, and went into the army, eventually winding up fighting in Northern Italy. There he was severely wounded, and spent years in the hospital and in physical therapy before being able to walk again. He's never regained the use of his right hand, and lost some feeling in his left hand also. <br /> <br />The heart of the book, however, isn't the war so much as his upbringing and boyhood in Russell, Kansas. He spends a good deal of time talking about his family, friends, and things like the job he had as a soda jerk and the schools he went to. He especially dwells on his relationship with his parents, whom he quite obviously admires and loves a great deal. The war itself is treated rather briefly: he was only in combat for a few weeks before getting almost killed by German fire (he was never exactly certain what hit him: shrapnel, bullets, what). Much of the last half of the book chronicle's Dole's struggle to regain some semblance of normalcy and mobility in his life. The parts where he's in the hospital, while often inspiring, are also somewhat depressing at times, especially since you know he's not going to regain everything he lost when he was wounded. He of course would emphasize what he *did* regain (e.g. walking) and say he was happy with the result, but the man was an athlete who wanted to play basketball again, and couldn't. <br /> <br />That being said, this is a very good, very readable book about a subject that gets talked about these days more than it did a while back, but still could stand more emphasis. The middle part of the last century called for a lot of sacrifice from our people, and we can't begin to thank them enough. Highly recommended.	2005-09-09
71849:US	52850806	R20NF0PSGTCT9I	0451210743	712732369	Hornet Flight	Books	4	2	2	N	N	OK, if a bit pedestrian	Ken Follett has been writing historical espionage novels, mostly set during World War II, for two decades now, and he knows the genre very well. The current novel involves a historical fact (that German  air defense radar was very precise, but their system was set up to only deal with one attacking plane at a time) and builds around it the story of Harald, a young Danish boy who discovers the workings of the radar system, but has no way to communicate his knowledge to the English so they can exploit it. The story is told with Follett's usual cast of characters, each of whom is well-drawn and interesting, and also usually three-dimensional. In this particular story, Harald's family had a quarrel some years before with a neighboring family, and the quarrel spins out of control and affects everyone as part of the spy subplot. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book a great deal. It's not high literature, and there's no real suspense in it, to be honest. It is, however, good entertainment, and certainly worth taking to the beach or on a plane.	2005-09-06
73689:US	52850806	R37X01J6DSFDGO	0393322521	762531115	Hitler: 1936-1945 Nemesis	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Exhaustive, but spotty on the history of the war	This second volume of Ian Kershaw's biography of Adolf Hitler is very long, exhaustive, and seems complete as far as his political and philosophical career are concerned. The book concentrates a great deal on Hitler's personal appearances, his speeches and things he said in conversations, etc. While it does a good job of covering these things, and the parts of Hitler's personal life that remain at least partially in shadow, it does a less-than-complete job with the war. <br /> <br />A number of incidents are left out or only briefly touched upon. The sinking of the Graf Spee is ingored completely. In fact, the naval war in all of its facets is almost completely absent from the book, and various incidents (the various battles in the North Sea, for instance) are completely ignored. I don't think this is bias on Kershaw's part, as one other reviewer insists. For one thing, defeats on the part of the Germans are ignored, also. The Graf Spee, Tirpitz, and Scharnhorst sinkings aren't any of them successes for the Kriegsmarine. It's rather famous that Hitler ordered the surface fleet abandoned after various naval disasters in 1943, claiming that only the U-boat fleet was doing any damage to the Allies. This is ignored. Various other fiascoes (the invasion of Southern France, the He-177 bomber, much of the Battle of Britain, much of the campaign in North Africa, etc.) are either ignored or only referred to briefly and obliquely, without any mention of Hitler's opinion or influence. One famous anecdote that we've all read that didn't make it into the book is the story of Hitler intervening to have the Panzer III tank armed with an anti-tank gun, and then, six months later, noticing in a conference that his orders hadn't been followed, with the consequent expected explosion. <br /> <br />There's also the issue of writing style. This is one of the most verbose books I've ever read. The author repeats himself endlessly. In his defense, he's recounting each of Hitler's speechesand that sort of thing, and Hitler repeated himself also, but it still seems repetitive. There is a separate issue, though. Kershaw has some of the longest sentences on record here.  Some of them seem to run on to eight or ten lines in the book, and it's hard at times to keep track of what the start of the sentence is. There are often phrases in the middle which include significant digressions which distract you from the point he's making with a particular sentence. Whatever else it was, this book isn't high literature in any sense of the word. <br /> <br />I did respect the level of the scholarship in terms of things like the German government and administration, and his description of the functioning of Hitler's regime. One of the author's central points is that the Nazi style of leadership was so haphazard and indistinct that if the war hadn't brought about the fall of the regime it probably would have collapsed of its own weight in a few years anyway. It was also, in the short run, horribly inefficient and wasteful, and very corrupt. <br /> <br />I can't say I enjoyed this book. I was informed by it though, and on the whole it's worthwhile. Recommended for anyone who's interested in Hitler, though of course with the first volume it's almost 2000 pages on the man, so be prepared to spend some time.	2005-09-05
108424:US	52850806	R1SMY77JEVT7GW	0393046710	46961500	Hitler: 1889-1936 Hubris	Books	4	3	8	N	N	Exhaustively detailed	Adolf Hitler is a tough subject for a biographer. A writer usually takes the side of the person he's writing about, but in HItler's case it's difficult to do that. Hitler probably qualifies as the most evil person in the 20th Century, if not all of history. Since the biographer must therefore be negative about his subject, biographies of him tend to focus on his faults (he didn't have many, if any, virtues) and are as a consequence rather depressing. This book is no exception, especially since it's so depressing. <br /> <br />This first volume about Hitler takes him up through 1936, when the author reckons Hitler had had about all the real successes that he was to have for the length of his life. The author starts with probably the most exhaustive discussion of Hitler's roots that I've ever seen, going over such issues as whether one of Hitler's grandparents was Jewish (Kershaw thinks not) and how his political views grew and transformed over the years. In most of Hitler's early life the testimony is very sparse and what evidence there is often contradicts itself. As Hitler emerges from the German army at the end of the First World War, things begin to get less murky, and Hitler's character moves into as much focus as we're going to have. <br /> <br />This highlights the second difficulty that Kershaw has: Hitler's strange private life. All characters from history have one, and it's often a window into their motivations and policies. Hitler didn't really have a \\"private life\\" and as such his personality is rather difficult to fathom. As much as he had a hobby (like Roosevelt's stamp collecting or Churchill's painting) Hitler's appears to have been sitting with an audience and reminiscing about the war and his service in it. He did paint a painting or two, but not many, and didn't do anything else, much, either. Kershaw discusses, and then dismisses, most of the stories of Hitler's supposed sexual perversions. This book was written before the sensational book \\"The Hidden Hitler\\" by Lothar Machtan, but I suspect Kershaw would dismiss it too. <br /> <br />There's a lot of information here, and it's reasonably well-presented. The subject is very dreary, though, so it's difficult to present it as if it were enjoyable to read.	2005-08-16
132320:US	52850806	R249H3BGDH9UZ8	0812972821	593758140	Franklin and Winston: An Intimate Portrait of an Epic Friendship	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Not quite a dual biography, and fascinating anyway	This is an odd sort of book, hard to describe what the book actually is. The subtitle perhaps says it best: this is a portrait of the friendship between Winston Churchill and Franklin Roosevelt. The author makes clear in the introduction that the book isn't a number of things: a history of the war, a bio of either man, a look at diplomacy in the 40s, or even an account of either the presidency of the one man or the term as prime minister of the other. Instead the narrative focuses almost exclusively on the two men and their relationship, its ups, and downs, incidents and accidents, characteristics and foibles. <br /> <br />Meacham is a gifted writer, and the narrative flows along quite speedily. I did have one proviso: he's a magazine editor, so he's used to speaking in short pieces. As a result, two to five paragraphs are typically grouped together, and then there's an extra blank line before there's more text. Sometimes this is unneccessary, but the writer does it anyway and it breaks his thoughts up a bit more than is warranted. That aside, this is a very good book and well worth the money.	2005-08-03
132991:US	52850806	R31VD3OYCIL9KO	037541536X	19278544	Horatio's Drive: America's First Road Trip	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Brief but fun	This is a brief account of the first cross country automobile trip, sprinkled with photographs taken by the \\"automobilist\\" as he traversed the nation's dirt roads just after the turn of the last century. Horation Nelson Jackson bet someone $50 in a club in San Francisco that he could cross the country in an automobile he had just bought, and do it in less than 90 days. He spent over $8,000 winning his bet (though he never collected the money). <br /> <br />The car (something called a Winton) had numerous breakdowns. After each one, Jackson would write his wife and advise her that \\"the worst is over now\\" after which the car would inevitably break down again. Jackson and his mechanic, Sewall Crocker, spent endless days waiting for parts and jury-rigging parts for the car. After Jackson and Crocker left San Francisco, two other cars, each with its own pair of intrepid motorists, left there also, all three headed to New York City. In spite of a number of hindrances, Jackson's Winton beat out the Packard and the Oldsmobile. Jackson even picked out a dog, named Bud, who wore goggles and rode in the front seat for most of the adventure. <br /> <br />This is a rather short book. It took me perhaps an hour and a half to read. It's full of illustrations and has a map showing the route Jackson took. It's also very interesting, covering a part of American history that I imagine many people had never heard before. I recommend it.	2005-08-03
142299:US	52850806	R9QESU4X4JPM4	0143034758	686377339	Alexander Hamilton	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Exhaustive, Excellent, Very Readable	Alexander Hamilton has come down in the history books mostly as the evil genius of the American Revolution and our founding fathers. Lore and oral history present him as somehow malevolent, scheming, manipulative, and faintly dishonest, and some of the controversies he was involved in tend to show him in light that is less than completely flattering. Ron Chernow has done us the favor of writing an exhaustive, readable biography of this bundle of energy, passion, and intellect that redresses much of the inaccuracies of earlier works, and makes clear that Hamilton belongs in the pantheon of Founding Fathers, at least as prominently as the rest. <br /> <br />Hamilton was born on Nevis in the mid-1750s, though the exact date turns out, like much of his early history, to be indistinct. He was born illegitimate (a fact which haunted him for the rest of his life) and after his father abandoned him and his mother died, he left the Caribbean and moved to New York City, where he attended King's (later Columbia) College. He served in the army in the American Revolution, rising to Lieutenant Colonel in the infantry, though he spent much of the war as General Washington's aide, in a position more akin to a modern Chief of Staff. After the war, he served a spell in the Continental Congress, was perhaps the most influential delegate to the Constitutional Convention, served as President Washington's Secretary of the Treasury, then headed the army that was raised to face the French in the feared war with France in 1798-9. Between then and his death in a duel with Vice President Aaron Burr in 1804, he worked in New York City as a lawyer, and founded the New York Post, which is currently the nation's oldest functioning newspaper. He also was at the center of America's first political sex scandal. <br /> <br />This biography is one of the best books of its type on a founding father. The exhaustive research the author did into Hamilton's life (and especially his writings) is almost unparalleled. Hamilton wrote voluminously (you wonder he didn't suffer from writer's cramp) and published most of what he wrote. Chernow has discovered dozens of articles and editorials that Hamilton wrote which were previously unknown, and has unearthed a wealth of evidence about his childhood that was heretofore unknown. The author is unabashedly a partisan of his subject, and some of Hamilton's rivals (who outlived him, and defined his place in history) emerge in much more negative light. James Madison, for instance, is quoted as saying that if he doesn't see an increase in his Congressional salary, he'll have to sell a \\"Negro\\" to make ends meet. Patrick Henry (\\"Give me Liberty or give me Death\\") opposes the ratification of the Constitution in Virginia with the words \\"They'll free your niggers.\\" Jefferson invites Aaron Burr (long an outcast in Washington) to dinner after Burr shoots Hamilton. John Adams denounces Hamilton repeatedly (though privately) for his illegitimate birth, and his wife denounces anyone who opposes her husband, regardless. Frankly, the founding fathers wind up looking like a squabbling bunch of kids, when it comes to their view of Hamilton, anyway. <br /> <br />In case it wasn't obvious, I enjoyed this book immensely and would recommend it to almost anyone. The one drawback to the book is its size: it weighs in at 700+ pages of text. Chernow's a great writer, however, and the words flow past you without much of a hitch. I enjoyed this book immensely, and again, I would recommend it.	2005-07-29
156750:US	52850806	R29UNSWN04CCNB	0374120773	289452750	The Nature of Sacrifice: A Biography of Charles Russell Lowell, Jr., 1835-64	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Wonderful bio of an obscure Civil War figure	The field of Civil War biography is a growth industry. Especially on the Confederate side, generals and even junior soldiers are written about constantly, and some of the more senior or famous soldiers have had several books written about them in recent years. This latter group includes Sherman, Sheridan, Grant, and (of course) Custer among the Yankees, and Lee, Jackson, and Longstreet among the Confederates. Many Confederate soldiers are written about also, including such household names as Alexander P. Stewart, Benjamin F. Cheatham, and John Bell Hood. By contrast, few if any of the junior Union army generals have had biographies written about them. One of the few books in this line in recent years is My Brave Boys, a study of Edward Cross and his New Hampshire volunteers. It's an excellent book, and the present volume, The Nature of Sacrifice, is worthy of standing on the shelf right along side it. <br /> <br />The subject of the Nature of Sacrifice is Charles Russell Lowell, Jr., the son of a failed businessman who graduated from Harvard first in his class, worked in business and travelled Europe, and joined the regular Union Army in 1861 as a lieutenant in the cavalry and rose to the rank of colonel in the next three years. He was promoted to brigadier general after his death. <br /> <br />The course of his career over the three years between the start of the Civil War and his death comprises the last two thirds of this book, while the first third covers his early life. Much time is spent inspecting his thoughts, feelings, philosophies and intents. When the Civil War started, his joining the Union Army and subsequent career are detailed at length. In the first two years of the war he saw action at Antietam, where he served as an aide to General McClellan. He then went North to raise a cavalry regiment in his home state of Massachusetts, led it back south the next year, chased guerillas for much of a year, then participated in the Shenandoah Valley Campaign of 1864. He was killed in the last battle of that campaign, Cedar Creek, and was instrumental in the Union victory there. <br /> <br />Lowell is a fascinating character. He was a fierce, devoted abolitionist, an aesthetic character who was Robert Gould Shaw's (Matthew Broderick in the movie Glory) brother-in-law, a man who could have gotten out of service in the war and instead embraced it repeatedly. He was universally well-regarded by the time of his death, receiving accolades from characters as diverse as George Armstrong Custer and Wesley Merritt (who detested one another, but agreed in their regard for Lowell). His men started out grumbling about his disciplinarian ways, but wound up loving him. <br /> <br />This is an excellent book, written by a relative who's never written a book before. It's well-written, informative, and frankly fills a gap in Civil War biography that I wouldn't have anticipated being filled in a long time, perhaps never. I thoroughly enjoyed this book (in case it wasn't obvious already) and would recommend it to anyone interested in the Civil War.	2005-07-20
165923:US	52850806	R2MT91FYL9VJSU	0446614122	182046660	Double Homicide	Books	4	5	7	N	N	An interesting idea, executed uniquely	This is a strange novel, probably a first all around for detective fiction. The Kellermans are well-known to detective fiction fans. Jonathan's been writing his Alex Delaware series for about two decades now, and is one of the best-regarded writers in the genre. Faye's not too far behind, and between the two of them they've published 39 novels. I would imagine they're close to the most popular couple in publishing, unless there's a couple I don't know. This is, as a result, something that I'd wondered about (why they didn't collaborate before) and here's the result. It's strange, on a number of levels, but it's a good book anyway. <br /> <br />For one thing, this isn't a single story, it's two. The two novellas don't share anything beyond their authors, brevity, and (vaguely) subject matter. Story one follows a pair of homicide detectives in Boston as they investigate the shooting death of a college basketball star. Story two similarly follows a pair of detectives in Santa Fe, New Mexico, as they investigate the murder of a prominent local art dealer. <br /> <br />While everything about the stories is unique, there are similarities in structure. Both of the plots are really short stories, stretched to a hundred and fifty pages by more character development than you usually see in a short story. Both stories involve a pair of detectives with personal problems and issues, and both pairs of detectives are studied in some detail. In Boston, the black single mom is worried that her younger son has a gun in his backpack, while the middle-aged white guy resents that his wife's in Florida visiting her family while he's stuck in Boston in the winter. In Santa Fe, the Indian ruminates on his heritage and learns about his father's pottery, while the transplanted New Yorker is essentially treading water personally, knowing he can never reconnect permanently with his ex-wife. <br /> <br />Frankly these stories are odd, together or separately. I didn't have the difficulty figuring out what happened in the second book at the end, as one other reviewer had. These stories are unusual in several ways, more character-driven than usual, and a strange length that's not much used these days. You used to have writers  (John Creasey comes to mind, and Louis L'Amour) who wrote stories that were 150 pages long, but not any more. As a result this is an unusual departure for these two writers, and mostly (anyway) welcome.	2005-07-14
167263:US	52850806	R36B64UV1NH3B6	0451410750	970596440	The Wheat Field (Mysteries & Horror)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I enjoyed it	There has been a new type of character in detective fiction lately: the rural cop. He's mostly a plains type. Oklahoma's Milt Kovak, Iowa's Carl Houseman, and David Wiltse's Billy Tree are all good examples of this sort of thing: a loner who patrols the endless roads and flat plains of the countryside, and has to solve some strange murders that erupt in the sticks. <br /> <br />This entry into this sub-genre has a wrinkle to it: it's set in 1960. This makes it a semi-historical novel in addition to a cop story. While no historical characters are actually in the story, JFK and Nixon briefly make appearances, running for president, and Joe McCarthy is mentioned. <br /> <br />Instead, Deputy Sheriff Pliny Pennington is the first on the scene, and assigned to investigate, the murders of a husband and wife. They're found naked, lying in a crop circle in the wheat field of the title, each killed with a shotgun blast. As he investigates, he gets more and more involved in the case, and things get more and more complex. <br /> <br />This is a good novel, well-written and interesting. There is a strong sexual overtone to things (the victims film themselves and others having sex) and the plot has some improbabilities in it. It also has a reference or two that are annoying at best. Even so, I enjoyed the book, and would recommend it.	2005-07-13
170610:US	52850806	R2P8RXXP1ZP20A	0395621526	453084533	Hitler's Diplomat: The Life and Times of Joachim von Ribbentrop	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Nazis are not fun to read about	This book is a biography of Hitler's Foreign Minister for much of his reign, Joachim von Ribbentrop. Von Ribbentrop was a former champagne salesman (much was made of this by other Nazis) turned diplomat who served first as a special envoy, later as ambassador to Great Britain, and finally as Foreign Minister of Nazi Germany. He was essentially a colorless functionary, a boring and not-too-involved character who found his role increasingly irrelevant as Hitler switched from bullying neighboring countries into submission to conquering them. <br /> <br />I read this book largely because I had read another book of the author's (Hitler's Banker) and enjoyed it. I must confess, this book wasn't as good. For one thing, it's hard to sympathize with the subject at all, though the author does make it clear that von Ribbentrop was a good husband and father to his family. The author apparently had little access to information not published elsewhere, however, so he pads his account of the life of the Foreign Minister of Germany with a series of anecdotes and incidents which have little to do with his main subject. This, to my mind, cripples the book at least somewhat. <br /> <br />It's hard to read a book like this, in that you're not going to enjoy it, because the main character isn't a nice person, really. Given that, the book is well-written, and I would recommend it to someone who wishes to know more about the Nazis.	2005-07-11
181280:US	52850806	R1DQXT0B9KBIYY	1853671347	351663440	002: England in the Seven Years' War, 1759-63	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Classic analysis of the Naval Strategy of this War	The Seven Years' War is one of those conflicts that never really gets dealt with in all of its permutations in the same place. Those books that deal with the conflict in America (where it is generally referred to as the French & Indian War) tend to leave out the parts of the conflict that took place in the Caribbean, Asia, and Europe, while the books that deal with those parts of the conflict generally skimp somewhere else. The current book looks at the naval aspects of the war, from the point of view of England, and makes the case that the \\"system\\" of Pitt (the minister of the government who essentially ran things for most of the war) was brilliant, and had great influence on the outcome of the conflict. <br /> <br />Julian Corbett was a lawyer who wrote naval history a century ago, earning himself a knighthood during the First World War for his analysis of the conflict. In this book, you can see why he's so well-thought-of among naval historians, and considered a corrective to the great Mahan. The discussion of the various courses that might have been taken, strategic questions that various players were confronted with, and the descriptions of how the confrontations played out, is interesting to say the least. This war led to no major naval battles, but there were several campaigns where sea power was decisive, and so the strategic decision making process is very interesting. Corbett is very perceptive in his analysis. <br /> <br />While the book is interesting, it's not for everyone. The language is rather dated, being very wordy by modern standards. Sentences run line after line at times, paragraphs run down the page, and his train of thought is sometimes difficult to follow. If you can get past the eccentric verbiage, though, this is a very worthwhile book.	2005-07-04
181432:US	52850806	R2UO02N4TL84SM	0786016671	353986140	Good Morning, Killer	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Complex and involved	This is one of those books which, if you pick it up expecting a certain plot line, you'll either be bored because you already know what's going to happen, or you'll be disappointed because you didn't know, and were surprised by where the author takes the story. Ana Grey is an FBI agent, and at the beginning of the story, she's in charge of the search for a serial rapist who victimizes underaged girls. His latest victim, kidnapped from a Santa Monica mall, is apparently only the latest in a string of girls he's run across in several states, some of whom are still missing. Ana and her fellow FBI agents, as well as the local police, must search for the rapist before he does his thing again and victimizes someone else. <br /> <br />Meanwhile, Ana is romatically involved with one of the local cops, a Santa Monica detective named Andrew Berringer. Their stormy, rocky, on-again-off-again relationship is the second half of the story, and I won't tell you anything beyond mentioning that it goes in several surprising directions that I didn't guess till later, though I did guess one part of what was going on. It's interesting though, and the integration of this part of the plot into the larger story of how the serial rapist gets caught is interesting. <br /> <br />While I enjoyed this book a great deal, there were a few plot twists that I guessed in advance, and one of the supporting characters so clearly needs psychological help that it's unbelievable that it wouldn't be afforded them, even insisted upon. This being said, this is still a good and interesting mystery.	2005-07-04
181517:US	52850806	R3QP887V7EJ4FL	B0006BYN92	891855984	George Washington's Opponents: British Generals and Admirals in the American Revolution	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Bio sketches of various Revolutionary British leaders	This is intended as a companion volume to an earlier one that the same editor compiled, titled George Washington's Generals. While I had mild misgivings about the other volume, because of the selection of at least some of the people biographied, in this volume I have more serious, central objections. <br /> <br />This book is intended to fill a gap in American history, and at least outline the lives of the various commanders on the British side in the American Revolution. The first difficulty is that the writers are virtually all American, and their focus is on the participation of these individuals in the Revolution itself. It would be interesting to know more about these individuals *before* they participated in the war, in terms of what their experiences were. <br /> <br />My second complaint is more serious. We know a little about the main generals of the American Revolution, Gage, Howe, Burgoyne, Clinton, Cornwallis, perhaps Carleton. The book includes a sketch of each of these soldiers, but it doesn't go much further. Instead it then includes a series of bios of various sailors who participated in the war on the sea. I don't mind the inclusion of Graves (who lost the battle of the Virginia Capes to de Grasse) or Lord Howe, but there's also a compilation chapter dealing with Arbuthnot and Gambier (in addition to Graves), and one on Hood and another on Rodney. I would have instead included a few pieces on various subordinates: Lord Rawdon, Tarleton, or perhaps some of the German mercenaries. Frankly, this crippled the book for me, to a large extent. <br /> <br />There is some good material here on the various soldiers who are biographied, so I don't think this collection was a total waste, but frankly at this point we need another compilation like this one, but something more complete, and more in depth.	2005-07-04
186798:US	52850806	R3G50OKKKXEBEZ	0786890010	149028436	The Body of David Hayes (Boldt/Matthews)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Cerebral police procedural	Ridley Pearson is one of the most intellectual and cerebral detective novelists around, at least among those who are popular. He even held the Raymond Chandler/Fulbright fellowship in detective fiction at Oxford University, a decade and a half ago. He started his career writing suspense fiction, but gradually settled into a series of police procedurals whose main characters, Seattle Police Sergeant (now Lieutenant) Lou Boldt, and his sometime partner, psychologist/detective Daphne Matthews. The current book is the ninth in that series. The series is good, and so is this book, but one warning to start things off: you shouldn't read this book first. There's too much going on here that plays off events in previous books, so start with one of the others, preferably Undercurrents, which was the first. <br /> <br />In this book, the focus is much more on Boldt and his wife Liz than on Daphne Matthews. Liz works at a bank, where she has a place of considerable responsibility. Some years before she had an affair with a co-worker, which almost destroyed her marriage. It turns out that the co-worker in question was later arrested for embezzlement, and went to prison for six years. He'd embezzled $17 million, but no one ever stepped forward to claim that they'd lost the money. This raised eyebrows, and authorities were further fascinated in that the money was never found, either. The embezzler (and adulterer) somehow hid the money and it hasn't ever been found. <br /> <br />Now the embezzler (the David Hayes of the title) is out of prison, and various people are competitively trying to watch him and recover (or perhaps steal) the money. Among them are Boldt himself, another cop who's something of a former friend, and a rogue Russian general who's come to America and become a mobster or businessman, depending on your point of view. <br /> <br />This is a good entry in the Boldt/Matthews series, complete with crazy antics by some of the secondary characters, and interesting plottwists and atmosphere. I enjoyed it, and would recommend the book.	2005-06-29
190314:US	52850806	R3NE6WOMZTNZ0Y	0312936214	300670880	Liars & Thieves: A Novel (Tommy Carmellini)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A bit of a departure for Coonts	Stephen Coonts started out as an aviation writer, with his hero Jake Grafton piloting a bomber over North VietNam during the late unpleasantness in Southeast Asia. He managed to stretch that genre way past what you would have expected, and kept the character going for perhaps 8 or so novels. At some point, things have taken a turn, and the books have become more espionage-oriented. While Coonts is a knowledgeable guy, you have to think that most of his knowledge is about flying planes rather than spying on people. <br /> <br />Nonetheless, Coonts has created a second character, Tommy Carmellini. Tommy's basically Robert Wagner's character from the old TV show \\"It Takes a Thief\\" but updated. For those who don't remember, Wagner's best known to the modern audiences as \\"No. 2\\" in the Austin Powers movies. Back in the day, he was Alexander Mundy, the handsome jewel thief caught stealing and put to work by the CIA in exchange for commuting his sentence. Tommy's story is pretty much exactly that, except he actually does other work for the CIA, and even has an office. <br /> <br />In the current offering, Tommy gets sent to a Safe House in rural Virginia to do a week's work as a sentry, and arrives to find the sentries he's replacing shot to death. There's an ensuing gunfight, chases, more gunfights, more chases, more gunfights, a bit of spying, more gunfights, romance for a bit, more gunfights, another chase, and then (you guessed) more gunfights. Tommy must shoot a dozen people in this book, and given that he tells you early on that he's not that good at it, you have to wonder how long this guy's luck is going to last. Since he's the narrator, you kinda know he's not going to get killed. <br /> <br />Grafton appears in the middle of the book, and the gunfights are reasonably well-done, but there are too many of them (in case you didn't get my drift above) and they aren't very believable. The motive for the shootings becomes obvious (at least generally) about halfway through the book, so the revelation of the motive at the end is sort of a let-down. Even so, I enjoyed this book, and it's definitely a good beach read or something of that nature.	2005-06-26
192767:US	52850806	R1EYCVBDOYHU6H	0743457978	191061509	Havana: An Earl Swagger Novel	Books	5	17	17	N	N	More literary than some of his other books	Stephen Hunter has come a long way since he wrote (and I read) The Master Sniper, perhaps two decades ago. I have to say I wasn't very impressed with that book, and it was some years before I picked up another of Hunter's books, Point of Impact as it happened. I still think that's his best book, though Time to Hunt is also very good, and the rest of his books since then are an improvement over his earlier works. <br /> <br />Point of Impact's hero was a retired Marine sniper named Bob Lee Swagger. After writing several books with him in them, Hunter did several involving Bob Lee's father, Earl Swagger, who's a Medal of Honor recipient Marine who returned to the states and became an Arkansas state trooper. The elder Swagger has been the subject of three novels: Hot Springs, Pale Horse Coming, and Havana, the subject of this review. In all three, Hunter does a decent job of putting Earl Swagger into interesting situations, and then having him shoot his way out of them, but frankly I think Havana to be the best of the three. It spends more time dealing with his character, what makes him tick, and why he is built the way he is, mentally and psychologically. <br /> <br />Swagger is a killer, a fighter who enjoys the finality of a gunshot as a way to solve problems and fix disagreements he has with killers and criminals. In the current entry, he's convinced to trundle along to Cuba with the entourage of a local Congressman who's a wheel in the House of Representatives. Earl of course has to keep him out of trouble in a whorehouse, and when the mob figures out why the Congressman's in town (he's investigating whether mob influence is polluting the U.S. Navy base at Guantanamo) Earl has to thwart an assassination attempt. Those fans of Point of Impact, however, will realize that Swagger's not on the island just to protect the Congressman: instead, powerful figures in the CIA want a certain young fiery revolutionary named Fidel Castro killed, and they figure Earl's just theguy for the job. <br /> <br />This scenario sets the stage for what's best about the book: a romp through 50s Cuba with Earl and company. There's an improbably erudite Soviet spy (who sounds much more British than Russian, to me), a clumsy Mafia hitman, several annoying CIA types, and a couple of single ladies for Earl to interact with. All of the plot involving those people plays out in the streets of Havana and Santiago, and in the jungles of rural Cuba, each recreated wonderfully by Hunter. <br /> <br />In case you couldn't tell, I enjoyed this book a great deal, and would recommend it to anyone interested in the era, or to those who want a good suspense novel.	2005-06-24
199373:US	52850806	R2LY3I6JZR8OVH	0451209699	538986329	Blacklist (A V.I. Warshawski Novel)	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Sidetracked into politics	Way back in the day, there were only two good female private eye novelists. One was Sue Grafton, of the Alibi series, and the other was Sara Paretsky. Grafton seems to have run out of plot ideas (R was for Ridiculous) and Paretsky, who started as a fine detective novelist, has run loose of her editor and her common sense, and decided to lecture everyone about politics. She's been doing this for some time, with books criticizing HMOs, the Catholic Church, and various other subjects the author (and her main character) disapprove of, but Blacklist is probably the most egregiously political book she's written. <br /> <br />The story surrounds V.I. (our heroine) being sent to an abandoned and ancient estate in the wealthy suburbs to try and find if someone's prowling around the attic of the main building at night. A very wealthy old lady thinks so, and since she used to live there, and her son is one of V.I.'s clients who keeps her on retainer, she humors him, and stumbles across a body. This is the first difficulty in the book: when you come to the end of the story, it's clear that V.I. stumbling over the dead body is a terrific coincidence, and not that believable. Anyway, she investigates further, trying to find the trespasser and at the same time figure out how the dead body got dead. <br /> <br />This makes for a reasonably good mystery, but as others have noted the story's full of political rhetoric and opinion, all of it stridently left-wing. I'm not *just* talking about characters saying and doing things that are liberal. Since the author's politics are lefty also, she can make every conservative in her books a mouth-breathing knuckle-dragging 85-IQ Gestapo wannabe, and since she can, she does. The wealthy people in this book are (of course) skewered mercilessly, though if they're liberal their politics aren't criticized much. By the time you're done with 450+ pages of V.I. singlehandedly defying the Patriot Act and two or three whole police departments, outsmarting the FBI and the criminals, and railing repeatedly about that evil Patriot Act again, the story has sort of faded into the background and you're faced with a screed on politics. <br /> <br />One strange feature: the dead body in the book belongs to a journalist who's working on a book dealing with something called the Federal Negro Theater Project, part of the New Deal. V.I. gets told by another black journalist that the FNTP was killed by Congressional Republicans in the late thirties. This sounded really strange to me: Congressional Republicans killed a Federal program that funded Black art, and the Southern Democrats were nowhere to be found? I googled the FNTP and found a couple of sites that repeated this story, and then googled the Senate and House of Representatives to find out how they did it, and frankly I'm still at a loss. There were a measly 16 Republican Senators in 1937...which leaves 80 Democrats, way more than are needed to stop a filibuster. The Republicans in the House were outnumbered 3-1 by the Democrats. I have no doubt some Republicans were involved in shutting down the Federal Theater Project (the blacks were only part of it, and you should see the list of plays they were producing...some were definitely inspired by people sympathetic to Stalin et al) but they were powerless without allies in the Democratic camp. Paretsky, of course, places the blame solely at the feet of those evil right-wingers, and acts as if the Democrats were blameless. This sort of silliness needn't be in detective novels; readers ought to be able to read a book and be comfortable with some level of objectivity from the writer. Further, Paretsky is proudly introduced, in the about the author section, as having a Doctorate (!) in history, which means she reeeeaally should know this stuff without me telling her. <br /> <br />That aside ,the book isn't that bad, and if you can ignore the politics (or perhaps you agree with them) it's not the worst mystery in the world.	2005-06-19
206937:US	52850806	R37B1OSHVQC1IP	0304366579	427708539	Rising Sun and Tumbling Bear: Russia's War with Japan (Cassell Military Paperbacks)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Good account of an obscure war	This is one of two serious-length books on the Russo-Japanese war available in English. There are two shorter books (the Osprey \\"Essential History\\" and an \\"Illustrated History). The other book, \\"The Tide at Sunrise\\" by Denis & Peggy Warner, is longer and from a less military point of view, Denis Warner being a journalist. The current book is written by a retired British soldier, and consists of a \\"substantial revision\\" of a book he wrote in the late 80s after winning a silent auction and becoming the proud owner of a large library on the subject from the staff college he taught at.    The Russo-Japanese War is one of the stranger wars of history. The two opponents *looked* well-matched for one another, with the larger and more experienced Russian army handicapped by the length of their supply line along the trans-Siberian railroad. In actualy point of fact, however, the Japanese were pretty much universally aggressive and resourceful, while their opponents seemed to be able only to come up with excuses for failure, as opposed to ways to succeed. As a result, there were no major battles during the war that the Japanese actually lost or that the Russians were able to claim to have won. Russian soldiers were stolid and brave, and given some time skillful in battle, but the Japanese only rarely gave them a chance to learn anything and exploited every weakness they could find.    This is a good military account of the campaign, with some flaws. The various battles are examined intelligently, the character and actions of the various commander dissected dispassionately, the course of events recounted clearly and concisely. There aren't any notes to the text, however, and at times this is maddening. It's my firm belief that any work or person quoted in the text of a book should be attributed *somewhere*. If you don't do it in the text itself (something like \\"a British observer says...\\" isn't enough) then it should be in a footnote or something. The maps are only adequate, and don't do much to convey the movement of the troops or their dispositions at various times. There's also a reference to Takano Isoroku, who later changed his name to Yamamoto and became Japan's senior admiral at the beginning of World War II, but since the author makes no mention of the name change, most won't recognize Takano-san as anyone other than Admiral Togo's aide. The index is useless, failing to list entries that should be listed, and not citing places where the subject does appear. While the text of this book is worthwhile, the finishing touches are rather shoddy.    I enjoyed this book, and unless you can find a used copy of the Warner book this is the only account of the Russo-Japanese War available that I'm aware of. It also has the virtue of being shorter than the Warner book by a couple of hundred pages, if I remember right. So my recommendation, while qualified, is largely positive, because there are so few alternatives.	2005-06-12
214360:US	52850806	R34E0ZYV4I5BM7	044652929X	545494349	The Face of the Assassin	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Back to what he does best	I first read David Lindsey maybe 10 or fifteen years ago. His first book was out, and was recommended to me as unusual. I read it, and I agreed. Lindsey has, through the dozen or so books he's written, displayed a very weird ability to make relatively straightforward individuals come to life. He also has a marvelous sense of atmosphere, and a wonderful talent in concocting really creepy bad guys. <br /> <br />His last book, Animosity, was a mistake for him in my opinion. It was more of a Hitchcockian thriller than the mystery/suspense novel he's so well known for. The current installment is a return to what he does best: a melding of mystery, espionage, and suspense, with a touch of romance thrown in for good measure. <br /> <br />In the current book, Paul Bern is a forensic sculptor who reconstructs faces from skulls, and sometimes works with police to construct artist's conceptions of criminals or missing persons. He also does freelance work, and it's in that capacity that he's approached by a woman who hands him a skull and a strange story that she thinks this *might* be her husband, and she wants Bern to reconstruct the skull's face to discover if this is true. No sooner does the woman leave, and Bern begin to reconstruct the face that was attached to the skull, than he discovers something creepy: he's reconstructing his own face, exactly. <br /> <br />This leads him to other, more earth-shattering discoveries, and things get only stranger and more suspenseful as the book tools along. There are incidents in the story which, in retrospect, don't make any sense, but that's neither here nor there: they serve the purpose of making things more suspenseful and interesting. Bern quickly learns how to survive at what he's doing, and his journey through the underworld is interesting, to say the least. And the atmosphere of Mexico City (where most of the story takes place) is almost palpable, and feels very authentic. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book, and would recommendit. It's not his best (I still vote for Mercy) but it is pretty good.	2005-06-06
214420:US	52850806	R30GGZURXG6ZDO	037572575X	597967363	Europe's Last Summer: Who Started the Great War in 1914?	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Fascinating overview of a controversial subject	David Fromkin is an interesting historian, if we judge by the two books of his that I've read (the other one is A Peace to End all Peace). While he does provide a narrative history of whatever events he's dealing with, he also spends a good deal of time spinning what information he presents you with in the direction that he feels is appropriate. <br /> <br />In this instance, the subject is the start of World War I, with the focus being not just the start of the war, but the responsibility for starting it. Fromkin dissects the events that led up to the various declarations of war very carefully, and parses each event in turn with almost machine-like precision. This does mean there's some repitition, as noted in another review, because the author describes each country's and even each person's reaction to others in terms of what *they're* doing too, so that you have each event viewed from as many as five or six angles. This makes for some very short chapters: one's a total of three paragraphs long. It also makes for some very careful analysis and interpretation of what occurred. <br /> <br />I won't give away the ending, but frankly the opinions of the author aren't that surprising to those who've been studying World War II for the last decade or three. The author seems to make use of every source that's significant from then til now, and provides a useful survey of what's been written about the war in the interim, especially in terms of how our view of things have changed in the intervening years. This helps greatly in terms of our understanding of the conflict and its causes. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book, and think it a worthy addition to the World War I library of any scholar of that era, and to the library of anyone interested in military history or diplomacy.  <br />While it's probably not the last word on the subject, the author has clear opinions, states them cogently, and defends them quite skillfully.	2005-06-06
218775:US	52850806	R3MWBPXF05Y7ZS	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	4	5	9	N	N	A Strong opinion, Forcefully and skillfully stated	This book is the story of the conquest and exploitation of what the part of Africa that became known as the Belgian Congo. In the last part of the 19th and the first part of the 20th centuries, it was technically an independant country administered by Belgians, and basically owned by the then-King of the Belgians, Leopold II. He is presented in this book as a ruthless, greedy, essentially heartless individual who exploited Central Africa for his own gain, and ultimately got away with most of the atrocities that were committed in his name. <br /> <br />This book is a recounting of his conquest of the region, and of the international protest movement that it provoked, which ultimately led to the King selling the whole region to the Belgian government in 1908. The principle motive for most of the atrocities was financial gain: the region was a rich source of ivory, and when the European explorers got into the interior they discovered another resource that turned out to be better than gold, because it grew and replenished itself: rubber. This discovery coincided with the explosion of the automobile, the airplane, and other technological innovations that required rubber, large quantities of it, to work properly. The Congo turned out to be one of the principle sources of this. <br /> <br />The author goes over the various methods of extracting this resource from the country (most involved coercion of some sort, because it was cheap) and then spends a great deal of time (perhaps slightly less than half the book) discussing the campaign to stop the killings and the worst of the excesses that were involved in the gathering of the rubber. The movement centered around a former employee of the shipping company that was in charge of shipping cargoes to and from the Congo, who noticed that all that was going to Africa was guns and ammunition, and that a lot of rubber was returning, along with ivory and other items. <br /> <br />This guy's name was E.D.Morel, and he led a movementthat was largely composed of missionaries, though he himself was almost an atheist in beliefs. The missionaries included several black Americans who lived in Africa for a long period of time, and were witnesses to at least some of the atrocities. <br /> <br />This part of the book is interesting, and the author clearly is very interested in what Morel's motivation was. He also brings other characters into the equation, including Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Roger Casement, and Joseph Conrad. Conrad, of course, wrote Heart of Darkness, apparently wrote the story basing it in part on the Belgian Congo, which Conrad visited once while in the British Merchant Marine in the 1880's. <br /> <br />I enjoyed the book a great deal, though the author does have a bias against the perpetrators of the atrocities. This is the sort of thing that is frankly frustrating: how objective do you have to be when writing about Hitler or Stalin. The author makes it clear that the killing wasn't genocidal: the only motive, for the most part, was theft. It was, however, brutal, nasty, and unfair. The author clearly is biased, and this shows a bit in that he actually implies that the German invasion of Belgium during World War I, which caused famine and hardship for much of the country, was at least partially deserved because of the atrocities in Africa. Besides that, though, the point of view is seemingly well-founded. <br /> <br />I couldn't say I enjoyed this book: it's hard to read about a mass-killing and enjoy things. On the other hand, I found the boook to be interesting and informative, and I definitely would recommend it.	2005-06-02
225677:US	52850806	R2LHQMH3HXOGOD	0670032956	955071866	The First World War	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Interesting history of the First World War	This book attempts to reduce the First World War to 300 pages and a  bit, and succeeds for the most part. It's written by Hew Strachan, who's one of the better-known First War historians around right now. He edited one book on the First War already, and has penned the first of three volumes he's intending to write on the subject. He wrote this book in concert with a TV series he created for British TV. <br /> <br />In working on the TV series, he divided the war into 10 parts, and he does that here, also. This means that the campaign in the east, and consequently the Battle of Tannenberg, come about halfway through the book. Social and cultural aspects of things are at best skimmed over, while military maneuvers and political events are summarized briefly. While the writing is serviceable, it's certainly not poetic or anything: Strachan is a history professor and it shows. Things aren't helped by the fact he's British, which means his turns of phrase are sometimes unfamiliar to an American eye. The text is supplemented by numerous photographs, including an insert in the middle of the book in color. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book a great deal, though the writing isn't quite up to the standards of a short accessible history. It is, however, a good overview of the war.	2005-05-27
234845:US	52850806	R7TN3Q3MB3G14	0871138891	660313048	1942: The Year That Tried Men's Souls	Books	4	37	47	N	N	Popular History of America in WW2	Winston Groom is perhaps best known as the author of the novel Forrest Gump, which eventually became Tom Hanks's Oscar-winning title role in the movie of the same name. For whatever reason, though, Groom's decided to turn himself into a military historian, and his last three books are in that field: one book each on the Civil War, World War I, and World War II. <br /> <br />1942 is different from the other two books in one very large sense: the other two books attempted to illuminate for Americans two campaigns that (to Americans anyway) are obscure. Groom openly was trying to change that with those first two books. This current book isn't about an obscure campaign: it's instead a retelling of America's role in World War II during 1942, our first full year of participation. <br /> <br />Groom doesn't attempt any ground-breaking research, here. The bibliography mentions only secondary sources and autobiographies of participants. If he consulted any archives or documentary sources he doesn't mention it. Instead, he's distilled what must be a couple of hundred books into 400 pages of entertaining prose, covering American participation in the war over the course of a year. <br /> <br />Since the year he chose to cover is 1942, the book mostly deals with battles in the Pacific against the Japanese. Pearl Harbor, the Coral Sea, Midway, and Guadalcanal are the heart of the book's narrative, and in these he largely succeeds in doing what he's trying to do: explain what American participation in the war meant, and how it was fought. He also includes a considerable number of anecdotes and personal accounts of various stages of the war, from American females spies to the guy who escaped from a POW camp in China and walked 700 miles to freedom. Since Groom's prose is very good (he is a novelist, after all) the whole thing works together very well. <br /> <br />While Groom's a good writer, he sticks pretty closely to the \\"official\\" version of what happened in various battles andcampaigns, and won't surprise anyone with any of his major conclusions. This book isn't for people wishing to study World War II in depth: it's for those who don't know anything, or much, about the war. <br /> <br />I did enjoy this book, and I would recommend it to anyone who doesn't know much about World War II. It does suffer somewhat from being very America-centered, but it can be supplemented by other books, and it's good for what it is.	2005-05-19
238783:US	52850806	R34XQYBQF0E62D	0451213173	261821914	Reckless Abandon (A Stone Barrington Novel)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Holly and Stone reunite	This is the formula now, for Stuart Woods, apparently. He takes a really thin plot (in this case, almost no plot at all) fleshes it out a bit with characters from his previous books (there are almost no new characters here) and then writes a bunch of snappy dialogue for them, making the story about 350 pages in length. Each of his books is less and less impressive: most of his plot twists and trademarks are here, but by now it's so rote that nothing is new or fresh or interesting, just moderately fun to read and diverting. <br /> <br />In this outing, Stone Barrington gets a phone call from Holly Barker because she's in New York City looking for a killer. He of course puts her up at his house, and then discovers that the killer she's looking for is in FBI custody, being held as a witness. The plot of the rest of the book is her trying to get this guy away from the FBI, and the various things that occur while she tries and Stone helps her. The various characters fly, drive, and walk around the country (and in one scene, to London for a day), and much of the plot seems designed to continue the soap operas that Woods has going for both of his favorite main characters these days. <br /> <br />This is a very easy read, as novels go, and I suppose that's a virtue. It's also eminently forgettable, and not very substantial, but since it's a detective novel, I suppose that's not that big a vice. This is definitely a good beach book or something to read on the plane; I wouldn't recommend it to anyone expecting the least bit in the way of literary content or substance.	2005-05-16
239152:US	52850806	ROJ3C5KVC3NXG	0425199606	797916108	Hidden Prey	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Getting old, gray, content	This is the fifteenth Lucas Davenport novel, from what I've read, and as far as I know I've read them all, in order, as they were published in paperback. In the early books, the character was young, brash, took chances and bent the rules when he thought it neccessary. Lately, the same person's gotten conservative, careful, reflective. He takes fewer chances, thinks carefully when he risks something, and works hard to cover himself when he screws something up because he did the wrong thing. In other words, he's getting older and more careful, the way most people do. <br /> <br />In this offering Lucas is called to Northern Minnesota to look into the killing of an officer on a Russian merchant ship that's docked on the lake. The man was killed professionally, and so the locals are thinking that espionage might somehow be involved. Lucas soon gets several assistants: a local cop, a Russian spy, and a friend from Missouri who is retired and bored. They spend the rest of the novel looking for the killer (who you know from the beginning of the book to be a high school student trained to be an assasin by his great-grandfather, a Soviet sleeper) and talking with various of the locals. <br /> <br />By now the Prey series is easy to read, and the characters and action are very believable. I enjoyed this book a great deal, and would recommend it.	2005-05-16
242051:US	52850806	R2FGL0KDMI32UC	0425199592	605593514	While I Disappear (Prime Crime Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very very good	Every once in a while, you read a book that's just dead on perfect.  Usually, the author follows this with something more down to earth, not as good or polished. Very occasionally you read a first novel that's perfect, and it's followed by a second novel that's as good as the first. Clea's Moon was brilliant, and While I Dissappear is as good if not better. <br /> <br />John Ray Horn, the main character, is a disgraced former B-movie star who mostly was in bad Westerns, and spent two years in prison for punching the son of the head of his studio. These days, he works as a collection agent for his former big screen sidekick and faithful Indian companion, who now owns a casino just north of LA. The series is set in the just-post-War era, when Los Angeles was booming and Hollywood was in its Golden Era.  <br /> <br />In While I Dissappear, Horn runs across a former co-star of his, a dignified intelligent woman who was a much better actress than he, but vanished after filming the movie. Years later she's living in poverty on Bunker Hill in LA, and doesn't want to have much contact with him. A few days later, she's dead, strangled, and Horn of course decides to find out who killed her. Things sort of progress for a while, then go sideways when there's another killing, and of course along the way, Horn has to journey through various parts of Los Angeles, meeting various Hollywood types, a preacher, poor people, and eventually the killer. <br /> <br />This is one of the best second novels in a detective series that I've ever read. I disagree thoroughly with the previous reviewer who complains this book isn't like Chinatown or something: the character is essentially an amateur detective, not a professional, so his judgements aren't consistent or always intelligent. His friends are apparently aware of his temper, and make allowances. While James Ellroy is a great writer, Edward Wright isn't Ellroy: the prose is much less adventurous and more conventional, but more poetic inplaces, and less choppy; while the story, in contrast, is less dark, cynical, and negative. This isn't something that bears discussion, in my opinion: every writer is different, and the tone of the books will be different too. <br /> <br />I really enjoyed this book, and frankly I haven't met anyone else who's read the book who didn't enjoy it immensely.	2005-05-13
245195:US	52850806	RTIZ0PBC8F770	0345452607	660919237	Therapy (Alex Delaware)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Not his best, but by no means bad, either	This book starts out differently from some of the others in the series, as has been noted elsewhere. Usually, a patient from Alex Delaware's past calls him and he's drawn into their problems, and things at some point take a violent or criminal turn. In this book, Alex and his friend, police Lieutenant Milo Sturgis, are having dinner when Milo is drawn into investigating a double homicide near the restaurant they're eating at. Alex tags along, and is soon assisting as Milo detects. Milo, it turns out, is bored in a Sherlockian way...the criminals are way too stupid for him, and this current case turns out to be the mystery he needed, not that he would admit it. <br /> <br />The double murder leads to a psychologist who's been treating one of the victims, and after Milo and Alex briefly question her, she gets murdered, too, in a fashion similar enough to invite suspicion that the same killer has struck again. Our two heroes begin to investigate, and what they find stretches all the way to Africa, and back again. The plot turns out to have many twists and turns, and some of the ending isn't exactly completely believable, though it's certainly within the realm of possibility, barely. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book more than some mysteries I read, though less than others. It's not his best, but it's a good beach book nontheless.	2005-05-11
248887:US	52850806	R1MXA7WTFB3QKG	0451214625	118205425	The Prince of Beverly Hills (Rick Barron Novel)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Woods on Autopilot	Stuart Woods is a great novelist for those who haven't read him, especially if you read his early books. Chiefs is one of the great crime novels of the last century, for instance, and some of the other stuff he did earlier is good, also. But he seems to have come to the point in his life where he can crank these things out with almost no effort, and so he doesn't bother to do anything more than that. <br /> <br />This book is a departure for him in that (other than the abovementioned Chiefs) I don't think he's ever done a historical novel. The main character, Rick Barron, is a detective in the Beverly Hills Police Department who's been demoted for getting the boss's neice pregnant. When he sees a car accident involving a nameless woman who runs a red light and a drunken Hollywood star who's driving too fast, he sees his chance and sweeps the whole thing under the rug, saving the actor's career. This leads to a job with the studio that employs the actor, and that of course leads to other adventures, including dealing with a local punk mobster, taking Clark Gable and David Niven on a fishing trip, and squiring various starlets around Hollywood. The difficulty is that, as has been said in the other reviews, no one (even Clark Gable, for Pete's sake!) is a very well-defined character.  <br /> <br />The plot also meanders along, and the last 50 pages or so are one long epilogue. The author does use some of his trademark plot devices: the main character's from Delano (where Chiefs is set, and one of his main characters, Will Lee, is from there too) and the movie studio is Centurion (Stone Barrington's off-again on-again wife has worked there). These don't seem to liven the book up much, though, and so I'm only lukewarm about it. It *does* have the usual Woods virtue of being easy to read.	2005-05-08
248994:US	52850806	R11451OVXCQAHQ	0743244508	663516219	The Battle of Salamis: The Naval Encounter That Saved Greece -- and Western Civilization	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Interesting discussion of Ancient Naval Warfare	I've read one other book my Barry Strauss, the well-written Anatomy of Error. I'm not an ancient warfare historian (I get frustrated by the amount of things they don't know about such events) but I enjoyed his previous book so I bought this one on a whim. I wasn't disappointed. <br /> <br />Strauss is at his best discussing the sources he uses in a book like this, and why he believes one account of something over another. The book relies heavily on Herodotus (as I gather you must if you write about this period: there's too little other information, apparently) and follows his account of the battle pretty closely. The action itself is often murky, because Herodotus sometimes even disagrees with himself, and other chroniclers disagree with him also. The result is an interesting discussion of what might have happened and what certainly did. It's very illuminating to see how Ancient historians go about weighing the evidence they are confronted with. <br /> <br />Given that Salamis was one of the most important events of Ancient History, this is a very good discussion of the battle and its impact on the history of the world. I recommend it.	2005-05-07
251927:US	52850806	R33389YIOEA2UK	0425199576	786542099	Bad Business (Spenser)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Spenser again	Robert B. Parker has been writing Spenser novels for what must be close to 40 years now (certainly 35). They have a formula which varies relatively little, and this one is definitely part of the series. Spenser, the detective without a first name, is hired by one of the most self-important characters I've ever seen in a book to look into who her husband is cheating with. When he follows the guy to a hotel room and discovers that he *is* cheating, he also discovers that the woman he's cheating with is also being followed by a PI. Spenser discovers that his client is *also* being followed by yet a third PI. This, of course, is rather weird. <br /> <br />When the guy Spenser's following winds up dead, the police begin to investigate too, and Spenser is intrigued, further. When even more curious incidents occur, the book takes a few unexpected turns, and things get interesting. While there's little of Spenser's trademark violence, Hawk (and Vinnie Morris) do make cameo appearances. The book has the momentum Spenser novels always have: it's just not quite as suspenseful as some of Parker's books.	2005-05-05
258233:US	52850806	R3V2KG5QPW2EQY	0394512766	928380957	The Crosswinds of Freedom: The American Experiment Vol.3	Books	3	23	25	N	N	Interesting history of Liberal America in the 20th Century	This book is billed as the third volume of James MacGregor Burns' magesterial history of the United States, collectively titled \\"The American Experiment.\\" Burns is perhaps best known as a biographer of FDR (he won a Pulitzer for one volume of this bio) and he's definitely a New Deal Democrat, though he would probably insist he worked hard to make sure his history of the United States was balanced. It *does* criticize both liberals and conservatives, but the criticisms are nuanced and definitely different. <br /> <br />FDR, it turns out, wasn't liberal *enough* during the New Deal. Reagan turned the word liberty into a weapon of hate. The author is pretty ambiguous about presidents after Roosevelt (his hero, of course) and viscerally dislikes Reagan, especially. Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, and Carter the author deals with carefully, while Nixon, Ford, and of course Reagan are for the most part dismissed with varying degrees of contempt. Reagan turns out to have been \\"shallow\\" and anti-intellectual, while his opponents showed much promise but of course were outwitted by the actor who knew how to manipulate the public. <br /> <br />There's also an annoying thread running through the book which the author tacitly acknowledges but refuses to jettison. He's a rampant cultural relativist, and flaunts it whenever he's dealing with Foreign Policy. As a result, when comparing the Soviet Union, Communist China, and the United States, the author doesn't see much difference between the three nations morally. Either he's unaware of the Gulags and reeducation camps of the two Communist countries (and their lack in the USA) or he thinks such things are irrelevant. He certainly acts as if they don't/didn't exist. <br /> <br />Instead, every facet of liberal society in America gets exhaustive treatment. So various shades of radical feminism get paragraphs, even pages, devoted to them, and the socialist and Communist parties of America are treated as if they were important forces in American politics. Their progress is considered worth discussing even into the '80s, when they became completely irrelevant. By contrast, organizations such as the John Birch society or the Libertarian party (not that I'm a member or supporter of either; I'm not) are never even acknowledged. The art world gets volumes, literature is dissected in detail, but popular art and music are at best briefly alluded to. It's a rather one-sided portrait of America, to say the least. <br /> <br />I found this book to be biased, but of course it all depends on what biases you bring to the book yourself. The writing is generally serviceable, and if the subject matter tends to sometimes make things boring, he never spends more than 10 pages on any subject, anyway. If you're interested in this era of history, I suppose you could do worse, and if you're aware of the biases of the author, it's not a bad outline of the subject.	2005-04-30
278342:US	52850806	RGSE7Z2G9KLZ5	0786867876	451605784	The Floating Brothel: The Extraordinary True Story of an Eighteenth-Century Ship and Its Cargo of Female Convicts	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Unfortunately incomplete	We all know Australia started out life as a colony for convicts who had been \\"transported\\" from Britain. This book follows one of the early convict ships which was sent to the colony full of women, theives and prostitutes mostly, who had been sentenced to transportation to Australia. The story seems to be compelling in a number of respects: the injustice of the convictions of some of these women in England, the poverty and hopelessness that drove others to crime, the hardships of the voyage itself and the isolation and desolation of the colony they arrived to settle in, all make for a compelling tale. The difficulty comes in the lack of information: the author's been able to discover only a bit about the ship and her passengers, and little about her passage to Australia. So she has to resort to conjecture, something historians don't like to do. <br /> <br />The solution here, and I'm surprised she didn't adopt it on her own, would have been a historical novel. She could have easily contrived believable events and backgrounds for those gaps in the historic record, and produced an interesting book. Perhaps the author doesn't have the imagination to do something like that, or the ear for dialog needed to write fiction. I don't know, but the resulting book is rather dissatisfying, though at times there are bits of information that are interesting.	2005-04-13
282498:US	52850806	R20SST95VE867S	1400032806	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	2	31	54	N	N	Disjointed, intriguing at times, unfocused, deceptive	Many years ago, I read a book by a British author about a murder and the subsequent trial that took place. I can't remember the author or the title, and they're immaterial to my point: the last half of the book surrounded the author's involvement in a separate court case, because he'd been accused of libel in his reporting of the story. The book you *thought* you were getting, about this murder, turned out to be about Britain's libel laws, and how lousy they were, at least as far as this one journalist was concerned. Under the Banner of Heaven turns out to be the same sort of thing: the book purports to be about how two brothers murdered their sister-in-law, but instead veers way off course and becomes a very anecdotal, disjointed, negative history of the Mormon church. <br /> <br />Mormonism creeps me out, too. Any organization where the people wind up looking that similar (with the white shirts and ties on the guys you see around here passing out their pamphlets) is a bit unnerving. They were racists at least in their recent past, and this polygamy thing won't go away either, and of course there's the unthinking obedience to the leadership, which would be troubling by itself. All of that aside, Mormons tend to be industrious, conservative (small c), respecatble, and generally orderly individuals. If the Jazz ever do win the NBA championships, it's hard to imagine Mormons rioting in Salt Lake City in the aftermath. <br /> <br />Author Krakauer, however, seems to dislike them (perhaps for some of the reasons I stated above) and so he takes a determinedly negative view of their history in his attempt to discover why the killers of this young woman would appear to be so rational, even though they also insist that God told them to kill her and her infant daughter. This leads him back through the history of the Mormon church to Joseph Smith's controversial early life, and the various turns that things have taken since. <br /> <br />To look at the church, and at the sametime keep up with the main subject of the book, the author employs the same technique that Erik Larsen used in The Devil in the White City. In that book, the author wrote of a serial killer and an architect, one killing, the other building the Chicago World's Fair of 1893 at approximately the same time. In Under the Banner of Heaven, Krakauer alternates between telling the story of Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, and the early Mormon church, and the story of Dan and Ron Lafferty, and their assertions that the killing of their sister-in-law was ordered and ordained by God. <br /> <br />By doing this, the obvious implication is that Joseph Smith and the Lafferty brothers are similar: they're all just a bunch of religious kooks, and should be tarred with the same brush. To be frank, if this book were about Muslim extremists from the Third World, the whole thing would be denounced as racist and Eurocentric. Since it's instead about rich white Republicans, largely from the suburbs, it's \\"insightful\\" and \\"illuminating\\" instead. <br /> <br />If taken in part, the book isn't that bad. The chapters on Colorado City (a small city of 9,000 on the Arizona-Utah border that harbors the largest community of polygamous Mormons today, call the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of the Latter Day Saints, and separated from mainstream Mormonism) are interesting, if a bit sparse in information. No one in the town talks to outsiders, and the leadership of the church tightly controls all media in the area. But the sum of the parts of the book turns out to be much less than each of the parts are individually, and the whole effort is rather lame, as a result. <br /> <br />Much has been made of Krakauer's writing style. I didn't particularly like it, I must confess. Krakauer's a journalist by trade, and you can tell from the choppy, abbreviated way he recounts everything. Everyone in the book gets a number behind their name the first time you meet them (Bob Smith, thirty-nine, is a..., Mary Stevens, a twenty-seven year old..., etc.) and a brief thumbnail sketch. The author has had a lot of practice summing people up in a sentence or two, and he uses this technique a lot. While it keeps the book going, when it's combined with the interweaved nature of the book itself, it makes things hard to follow. <br /> <br />I enjoyed parts of this book, and it contains information or opinions I hadn't heard before, which were interesting. On the whole, however, the method of the book's arrangement, and the author's bias against religion in general (he makes this clear at the end of tbe book) are not very conducive to a fair assessment of Mormonism, or of the crime this book was supposed to be about.	2005-04-10
286344:US	52850806	RBSLB08M4AN1K	0198607024	94235009	The Meaning of Everything: The Story of the Oxford English Dictionary	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Ought to be boring, but isn't	This is one of those strange books that turns out to be much more than the sum of its parts, largely because of the writing and the fascination that the author clearly has with the subject, and the characters that surround it. The book follows the compilation of the Oxford English Dictionary over the three quarters of a century that it took to write it, and while he's recounting this goes over the characters who helped construct this monument to scholarship and completeness. <br /> <br />The main character is James Murray, a draper's son from Scotland who never graduated from school, or attended college. He instead accumulated a great reputation for scholarship while working as a bank clerk, and eventually talked his way into the job of compiling the dictionary (he was the third chief editor, after one who died young and one who was horribly disorganized) and spent the next thirty or so years working on it. He died before it was finished, but his successors apparently didn't much improve on his system of compilation, and it continues to be used, in a modified form, today. <br /> <br />This is a great book, very enjoyable and concise, and about as much as any lay person wants to know about dictionary-writing. I enjoyed it a great deal, and would recommend it.	2005-04-07
290726:US	52850806	R2P3B2W7MQUEE1	0679764232	426549876	And the Dead Shall Rise: The Murder of Mary Phagan and the Lynching of Leo Frank	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Long, fascinating, drags a bit in the middle	This is one of those long, complex, involved books that inevitably drags in the middle somewhat, but which contains a ton of fascinating detail and anecdote about an interesting, if dark chapter in American history. In 1913 Atlanta, a young factory worker forever known as \\"little Mary Phagan\\" was murdered, and the police soon settled on the manager of her factory, Leo Frank, as her killer. After he was tried and convicted, and sentenced to death, the governor of Georgia commuted his sentence to life in prison. Outraged at what they saw as a travesty of justice, an organized group from her hometown of Marietta, Georgia, staged a raid on the prison where he was held, and lynched him. <br /> <br />All of this, and its aftermath, is recounted in considerable detail by former Atlanta journalist Oney. At times things do drag, especially during Frank's trial and the subsequent appeals and motions that were universally against Frank, right up until his sentence was commuted. The lynching is not treated in so much detail (largely because it's still apparently a raw nerve for local residents, many of whom the author reports as reluctant to talk) but the aftermath of the whole incident is indeed fascinating. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book, long though it was. It has a great deal of detail and interesting information in it, and the characters, some of them, are fascinating.	2005-04-04
300362:US	52850806	R1ZGPA2OLJ05R	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not what I expected, and very unusual	This is a strange book, one which will no doubt have phalanxes of ready-made converts, the anti-globalization types who think multi-national corporations are inherently evil, especially if they're profitable. The book spends most of its prose attacking McDonald's and other fast food chains, denouncing everything from labor practices to food preparation and safety issues. I'm rather impatient with the anti-globalization movement (check out my review of Benjamin Barber's silly Jihad vs. McWorld for more on this) and though I can't stand McD's myself, I'm firmly of the opinion that if people like it, they should be allowed to go there. My politics are, I suspect, well to the right of the author's. And yet I found myself enjoying the book, for the most part. <br /> <br />There are several reasons for this, I think. For one thing, I'm fascinated by the history of things, especially in this case fast food restaurants. I've heard several stories of where the \\"first\\" McDonald's is, notably having been told that the first one was in Chicago, of all places. Apparently the chain's headquarters is there, and presumably the first one in the state is celebrated or something, but Ray Kroc allowed the McDonald brothers to keep the first McDonald's (renamed \\"The Big M\\") and then gleefully put it out of business. It was in San Bernardino, CA. <br /> <br />The author also provides some background on Carl Karcher, the founder of Carl's Jr., and talks a bit about other chains. He spends about a page discussing the favorite fast food chain of many Southern Californians: In-N-Out Burger. The fact that he had good things to say about In-N-Out convinced me that the author wasn't completely biased: he appears able to discern between various groups and doesn't denounce everyone with a blanket. He does spend a lot of time bashing Republicans, no doubt, but he also praises a couple (OK, one's Teddy Roosevelt, but the other is modern) and has some harsh words in the epilogue for Clinton's ties to Tyson Foods. <br /> <br />The book is organized into chapters, each one dealing with an aspect of the fast food business, either directly or indirectly. You'd expect a chapter on the food itself, on the history of the restaurants, on the people who work in the places, etc., but the author goes further. He has a chapter on food poisoning that's pretty alarming, another on growing potatoes, and several on such things as the growth of McD's overseas, and other such things. Much of this is presented in a typical reportorial style: anecdotes illustrate the statistics he's gathered to make a point. Sometimes you wonder if he understands what he's saying: for instance, he asks Carl Karcher, in the first chapter, if he ever misses the old days when Mr. Karcher was young, and the city of Anaheim was small. He's just told you that Karcher was then working 76 hours a week at a feed store and running a hot dog cart in his spare time, but he seems surprised that Karcher doesn't hanker for the old days. There's also a passage where someone in the fast food industry brags about how they're going to make their food preparation machinery foolproof. The author interprets that completely in terms of economics: the workers, being less skilled, will be unable to command higher wages. Said corporate head is therefore depicted negatively for advocating something which could lead to better food safety (insuring that food is cooked properly is important for this) and perhaps quality of product too. <br /> <br />Though the book does have flaws, it's mercifully short and well-written, and intelligently argued. The author seems to wander close to the idea that big fast-food corporations control our lives and our brains, and make us eat what they want to serve us, but he ends the book with what amounts to an editorial, arguing that all everyone has to do to change McDonalds is stop eating there. Saying this implies that people do have the power to stop. This took some of the edge off of the insistent liberalism of some of the book, and made me enjoy it more. I would recommend the book to anyone interested in the fast food industry, or who eats fast food.	2005-03-27
302244:US	52850806	R3C0K442Q6FZQF	0142004839	741254205	Sea of Glory: America's Voyage of Discovery, The U.S. Exploring Expedition, 1838-1842	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fascinating, though a bit brief in some places	This is a wonderful book, slightly flawed in some places, but very readable nonetheless. The author has decided to concentrate on the \\"Ex. Ex.\\", the United States Navy Exploring Expedition, which travelled the seven seas between 1838-42. While the expedition collected a wealth of scientific specimens, discovered Antarctica (at least sort of) and surveyed many of the islands in the Pacific, it was overshadowed by the personality of its leader, a quirky, moody, unstable figure known as Charles Wilkes. Wilkes is perhaps better known for the Trent incident, where he commanded a ship that took two Confederate commissioners off of a British Mail Packet in early 1862. The incident almost sparked a British intervention which would have probably proven disasterous to the United States. Apparently, when Wilkes led the Ex. Ex., his unstable personality and impulsive temperment were very obvious, and the author makes a good case that he never should have been allowed near a Naval vessel again. <br /> <br />Wilkes sailed from New York in 1838 with six ships, and called at Rio de Janero, Tierra del Fuego, various islands in the South Pacific, New Zealand, Sydney Australia, Hawaii, Antarctica, and the coast of Oregon before returning to the states via the Indian Ocean and Cape Horn. He was the first to survey the Antarctic coast (for more than a century it was doubted he had sighted it, but more recent surveys prove his veracity) and drew charts of several hundred islands in the Pacific. The scientists he brought with him returned with thousands of plants, animals, rocks, corals, and other samples that they studied for years. The author credits this with starting the study of science in the United States, and making the study of these various things into a professional pursuit. <br /> <br />In addition, however, Wilkes was a strange personality. Much of the book is concerned with the strange antics he went through while commanding the squadron. He wasn't the first choice to lead the expedition, but every senior officer in the Navy turned it down before Wilkes was selected. Since he was only a lieutenant and lieutenants usually command small ships rather than squadrons, Wilkes asked for an acting promotion. When he didn't get it, he assumed he would and promoted himself to captain, then declared that he was a Commodore and flew the pennant of one for the remainder of the voyage. This was just the start of his strangeness. He was a poor sailor and seaman, but a very skilled navigator and especially surveyor. As a result, several times in the voyage his seamanship almost resulted in the sinking of his ship. He always responded by doing his best to undermine and humiliate whoever resulted in the ship being saved, as if to emphasize that he wasn't grateful to them, or perhaps in jealousy of their greater skill. <br /> <br />This goes on for several hundred pages. The author's mercifully brief when it comes to the Courts Martial that followed the return of the expedition's vessels, and only briefly recounts the lives of the principals after the expedition, but the Ex. Ex. itself receives a good deal of treatment, and proves to be very interesting. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in exploration.	2005-03-25
306506:US	52850806	R3G0YTOXEK5U58	0375725601	517121775	The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Fascinating, but a bit long	The Chicago World's Fair was apparently a very significant experience in the late 19th Century. Concieved to overshadow (or out-extravagent) the French World's Fair of 10 years earlier (which featured M. Eifel's Tower) and commemorate the 400th anniversary of Columbus's discovery of American, the Fair became, instead, a referendum on whether Chicago had grown up as a city, and whether America had grown up as a country. The Fair itself was deemed a resounding success, with many large and beautiful buildings (a few of which survive) and various famous attractions. The construction which was intended to overshadow the Eifel Tower was an extravagant upright wheel which carried passengers hundreds of feet into the air, invented by a young man named Ferris. Everything from Pabst Blue Ribbon beer to shredded wheat was debuted at the fair, and many interesting characters attended. <br /> <br />Among the interesting characters was a certain Dr. H. H. Holmes, who brought his third wife and her sister to the fair. What makes Dr. Holmes interesting is that his name was actually Herman Mudgett, that he'd never divorced his first two wives, and that he'd killed a whole lot of other people and swindled much money from various individuals and businesses. What drove him to his crimes has been debated ever since, and whether he was a serial killer in the modern sense of the word is in some doubt, but author Larson uses him as a counterpoint to the directors of the Fair, chronicling his crimes and deceptions as much as can be done at the distance of a century, and given how little they discovered at the time. There is, in addition, a digression to discuss the murder of the Mayor of Chicago at the end of the Fair. <br /> <br />This is one of those slice of life books that attempts to discuss the whole history of the era by discussing one event in considerable detail. It generally works, but the author has to fill in the blanks somewhat with Holmes, and this leads to some things in thebook which are of questionable value. <br /> <br />Given the above, this is a good book, and recommended.	2005-03-21
314200:US	52850806	RSMO923UVEM17	006093638X	20998921	Over the Edge of the World: Magellan's Terrifying Circumnavigation of the Globe	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Around the world in a lot longer than 80 days	Ferdinand Magellan is an interesting character: an expatriate Portugese who lived in Spain for a while, barely learned the language, and then led the expedition that ultimately circumnavigated the globe. He turns out, however, to be a study in contrasts: an amazingly brave sailor and skilled navigator, he was hampered by a stiff-necked streak in his temperment that made him difficult to work with at times, belligerent at others, and led to his death at the hands of Philipine natives he was trying to suppress. <br /> <br />This book is a tremendous treatment of Magellan's voyage around the world, it's repercussions in Europe, and the impact it had on the areas that he passed through. Author Bergreen is a wonderful writer, and the prose just passes before your eyes, with scenes and characters that are memorable. Among the best is Antonio Pigafetta, the Genoese soldier who travelled as a passenger on Magellan's flagship, and chronicled the whole voyage as a loyal follower of Magellan, sticking with him when everyone else seemed against him. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book a great deal. It's one of the better books on explorers and the age of exploration that I've come across in a long time, and it's very well-written, so much so that you learn a great deal about the world the sailors lived in and the ships they sailed, in addition to things about the spices that the one ship that survived returned with. I would recommend this book highly to almost anyone.	2005-03-15
318406:US	52850806	ROJGG8MBLSTGL	B0000VV2AG	8015663	Close to Shore:   A True Story of Terror in an Age of Innocence	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Starts slow; builds interest	This is a book that starts very slowly. The subject is a series of shark attacks of the coast of New Jersey that killed four men and injured several others, which *might* have been committed by the same, rogue shark. The author seems to believe this, and recounts the book as if it's so. The principle problem is that there's little evidence of what happened, beyond the immediacy of the attacks themselves, and the author spends considerable time with the backstory, working in everything from the function of a Victorian drawing room to women's roles in the household in the era, bathing costumes that were perhaps to racy to be beach-legal, and the mythology surrounding sea monsters. This fills the first third of the book, until someone gets eaten by a shark, and then the action picks up and the book gains some momentum. <br /> <br />The interest that the book holds is in the idea that a shark could become the killer that the people at the time thought it was. If the author's theory is true (and it does seem plausible) the same shark attacked several people, and then, driven by hunger, swam up a creek in New Jersey and killed a pair of people  17 miles from seawater. This behavior is really unusual for sharks, but the author says that shark experts he talked to think it plausible, and it makes for a good story. The book does sort of taper off at the end, because (as you might expect) the shark's fate is something of a mystery. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book pretty well, though as I said, it took some time to get going. I would recommend it to anyone with an interest in the subject, and those who read slice-of-life books recounting eras of the past.	2005-03-12
320343:US	52850806	R9LS2MCL0O2FC	037550785X	451240111	American Brutus: John Wilkes Booth and the Lincoln Conspiracies	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Best Lincoln Assassination book is a Booth Bio	This book on the assassination of Abraham Lincoln is excellent, and  interestingly it takes the form of a biography of his assassin, John Wilkes Booth. Much has been written about Booth, but author Kaufman seems to have lived with him for a good portion of his life, and knows everything about the assassination that can be known. The other good news is that he can write, too. <br /> <br />This leads to a very interesting, entertaining, informative book. There's a wealth of fact here, from the government investigators having the cast of the play on stage at Ford's Theater that night restage the performance, to see if there was anything they could learn, to Booth's girlfriend who committed suicide, to the Confederate female spy who wouldn't talk about her role in the plot, the book is loaded with interesting tidbits of information, and the author has sorted them very well. I could have used a Dramatis Personae, but overall I didn't have that much trouble following what was going on, and enjoyed the book. I would recommend it to anyone interested in 19th century history or the Lincoln assassination.	2005-03-10
326661:US	52850806	R1GS61MSX7QA04	0316154601	239093791	Lost Light	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Harry Bosch is one of the best	Michael Connelly has been doing Harry Bosch novels for years now. He's gotten so good at the main plots that he insists, instead, on details that are wonderful and atmosphere that's so authentic it's beyond real. Everything from Harry's retirement party being at Musso and Frank's (a real restaurant on Hollywood Blvd., fictionally featured in detective novels all the way back to Raymond Chandler) to discussions of modern-day L.A. traffic (always extremely bad), this is a book that feels like L.A. as much as any I've read in a long time. If that's not enough, there's a spot where you meet a character briefly. If you know what to look for, you'll know it's Elvis Cole, Robert Crais' detective from his popular series. In the last Cole novel, Bosch makes a similar appearance. <br /> <br />In this story, Harry has just retired from the LAPD. He's bored out of his skull, and decides to reopen one of his old cases. Back four years before, he was working in Hollywood, and he and his crew of detectives are assigned to a murder of a young woman who worked as a production assistant in a movie studio. She was killed in a way that made it look as if it were a sex killing, but soon the detectives suspect that something else is going on. Three days later, Harry's alone at the movie set where she worked when someone steals $2 million (which was at the set on the demand of an egotistical director) and there's a gunfight in which three people (two of them bystanders) get shot. The case is transferred downtown to Robbery-Homicide, and when the two detectives working it are shot, one killed, one crippled, later that year, the case is essentially abandoned. <br /> <br />This was a very enjoyable mystery, interesting, abounding with atmosphere and interesting characters, and a suspenseful ending that kept me guessing right up until the last few pages. I enjoyed it a great deal, and would recommend it to anyone.	2005-03-05
327767:US	52850806	R35WBPI4VT08HT	0812971043	518214282	The Dante Club: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good, if a bit long	This is one of those books that you want to like, if you're interested in historical mysteries (which I am). The book is set at the end of the Civil War, and has a series of murders occurring, each replicating a punishment from Dante's Inferno. Into the breach step Henry Wadsworth Longfellow and his \\"Dante Club,\\" which is helping him translate the Inferno into English for the American audience, for the first time. <br /> <br />This leads to various plot twists and turns, and the story is quite entertaining, but there are problems, too. Some have criticized the story's authenticity, especially of the Civil War aspect of things, but the events described aren't historical per se in the first place, and while they're something of a stretch, they're certainly not impossible. More troubling, though, is the pacing of the book. Apparently, a novel, to be thought meaty these days, must be 300-400 pages. This book feels 175 or so, stretched to more than twice that. As a result, it sags considerably in the middle, and you wonder where the author is taking the plot as he plods through 40-page chapters where the action is rather slow. Towards the end, the chapters get shorter (8 pages or so) and the action more crisp, and you become engaged again. <br /> <br />So, while this is a good book, the editing could have been more crisp, the whole story shorter, and I think the book better as a result. In spite of this, however, I did enjoy it, and would recommend it, especially to those who have a literary bent.	2005-03-04
340646:US	52850806	R36NF9MGBN0YPE	0156027283	275128337	Chasing the Devil's Tail: A Mystery of Storyville, New Orleans	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Astonishing, wonderful historical detective story	This is one of the best books I've read in years. The only reason it doesn't get praise as strong as some of the other reviewers from me is that several other books (notaby Eric Wright's Clea's Moon and Tom Bradby's The Master of Rain) have been as good, the last couple of years. This is a wonderfully textured, well-thought-out, intelligently plotted first novel, complete with a fascinating protagonist, well-drawn supporting characters (some historical, some fictional), and an intriguing plot that will leave you guessing right up to the end. All of this is capped by wonderful atmosphere and surroundings that give you the feeling that you've visited the Red Light District of New Orleans, known as Storyville, at the turn of the last century. <br /> <br />I won't tell you anything of the plot: it's good, and you don't need to have details to enjoy the story. One detail that's been criticized here: the idea that the main character has been misidentified because the author refers to him as a Creole, and that (according to other reviewers on this site) is a term reserved for whites. This isn't true. In *some circles* the word has that connotation, but Josephine (Napoleon's mistress) was a Creole, and so was Victory Hugo. In both of these cases the term *did* mean mixed race. The French version and usage *does* connote mixed race, and in the era portrayed by the book, the terminology is appropriately used.	2005-02-22
341081:US	52850806	R2JQVK0MOKL3DD	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Not a mystery...much more, and brilliant too!	Occasionally, you read a book expecting something, and get something else. If you're lucky, what you get is more than you expected: more informative, more entertaining, more amusing, something that adds to your enjoyment. Mark Haddon's The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-time is a book like that: you go into it thinking it's a mystery, but it's so much more, and extremely well-done to boot. <br /> <br />When I was a kid, I was introduced to the books of Chaim Potok, the Jewish Rabbi who wrote books about life in the Jewish community in New York City. One of the things that impressed me the most about his books was that when he chose to make a child the narrator of a story, he wrote that narration in a voice that was believably a child's, without making what was written childish, so that you'd not be interested in the book. Potok's characters were brilliant (one went on to become a world-famous artist in the latter part of one novel) but they were relatively well-adjusted and able to interact with those around them. What makes Curious Incident so unique and worthwhile is that the main character, Christopher Boone, is autistic, and can't relate to other people on an emotional level. This is fascinating, and the author apparently knows a great deal about autistics. <br /> <br />The result is a fascinating look into the mind of someone whose head is wired differently from the rest of us. He's brilliant at mathematics and physics, has a photographic memory, and is hyper-observant, to the point of sensory overload that can put him into a stupor, if he's somewhere unfamiliar. This is the sort of person who should be living with a millionaire in a mansion somewhere, so that his talents can be properly utilized and his foibles can be gently dealt with and perhaps, with time, mitigated. Instead, of course, Christopher lives in the real world (a small town outside of London called Swindon) where his father works repairing plumbing, his mother is dead, and he goes to a\\"special needs\\" school. When the story opens, Christoper narrates that he found a neighbor's dog lying dead, killed by someone with a garden fork, and he kneels down and holds it. When the owner of the dog discovers him, she decides he must have killed it, and calls the police, and off we go on our story, with Christopher deciding he must find out who killed the dog himself. Among other things, you see, he's obsessed with Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson, and so he understands how to detect things. <br /> <br />When he discovers who killed the dog, he also, inadvertently, discovers other things about his life. These things (I won't tell you what they are, it's too big of a surprise) drive the last half of the book, and are interesting. It's wonderful to see Christopher deal with things that he doesn't understand, because he approaches everything in what he considers a very logical manner. Sometimes, his logic leaves a great deal to be desired, but internally it makes sense. <br /> <br />In case you hadn't guessed, I enjoyed this book a great deal. I read a lot of books (more than anyone I know...over a hundred a year) and this is one of the very best I've ever read. I would recommend this book to anyone, and will be recommending it to anyone who will listen to me.	2005-02-22
346312:US	52850806	R1YNFI37QKS030	0679456716	677265694	Castles of Steel: Britain, Germany, and the Winning of the Great War at Sea	Books	4	4	5	N	N	World War I at sea, according to Massie	Some years ago I wrote a review of the author's book Dreadnought, and quipped that his last name should be Massive, not Massie, as his books are so dang long. This one isn't as hefty as Dreadnought, but at just under 800 pages of text it's not exactly a lightweight either. There is a lot of material, here, though, and the author works very hard to make the book interesting and the characters memorable, while all the time recounting the events he's interested in. <br /> <br />World War I at sea was dominated by a few events: the battles off South America at the start of the war, a few skirmishes in the North Sea, Gallipoli, the Goeben fiasco, and finally the Battle of Jutland. The author suitably spends a good deal of time on each of these episodes: the recounting of Spee's journey across the Pacific to the Battle of Coronel and finally to destruction at the Falklands takes a hundred pages, and Jutland takes a little more than that. There's much about the various characters involved, some of them rather obscure. Most notable is British Admiral David Beatty's wife, who turns out to have been the heiress to the Marshall Field fortune, and what the English would call an ugly American. The passage where she tries to browbeat Winston Churchill, of all people, into reassigning her husband's ship to suit her social schedule, is frankly priceless. <br /> <br />The book's prose is wonderful, and everything is very accessible, so why only four stars? Well, there are some shortcomings in the book, too. First there's the lack of maps. It's virtually impossible to follow a naval battle without charts showing you the positions of the various ships at particular points in the day, so that you can see why someone turned a particular direction or whatever. The book has only large-scale maps which don't help you with this at all. When you get to Jutland, if you haven't got a good working knowledge of the battle already you'll only have a dim appreciation of the course of the fighting.<br /> <br />Second the author has some eccentricities. One of the strangest is his insistence on anglicizing the name of the Kaiser of Germany to William from Wilhelm. This is just strange, and it's the sort of thing British historians did half a century ago, but Americans haven't done it in decades. The author leaves intact virtually every one else's name, so Franz Hipper remains Franz instead of Francis, and even the ship Kronprinz Wilhelm retains its German name, but the Kaiser is William. Just weird. <br /> <br />Second, as is usual with Massie, while he understands the personalities involved well, his knowledge of the technical stuff involved in naval warfare is weak at points. In Dreadnought, he misunderstood the flaws in British battlecruiser design: here he revisits the issue and gets it right this time, even giving you information on how the Germans prevented the sorts of disasters that plagued the British at Jutland. Apparently one of the German ships (Seydlitz) almost blew up to a magazine explosion at Dogger Bank, and they took measures afterwards. But he gets the sinking of the Lusitania wrong, repeating the old story that the ship was packed with explosives which probably sunk it. Robert Ballard went down and looked at the wreck: the hold that supposedly had the explosives in it was intact and empty, and evidence in the wreck at least implies the explosion was caused by coal dust. <br /> <br />These shortcomings aside, this is a wonderfully written book and well worth the effort if takes to read it, if you're interested in the subject, of course.	2005-02-17
368927:US	52850806	R2700VWUV846A9	0743214803	799406093	Into the Rising Sun: In Their Own Words, World War II's Pacific Veterans Reveal the Heart of Combat	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Interesting, if a bit limited in scope	This is the second of Patrick O'Donnell's books. O'Donnell is a gifted oral historian who's been collecting the recollections of men who were soldiers and served in the Second World War, partially through a website he set up some years ago, and partially through other sources. This compilation shows off O'Donnnell's strengths, and weaknesses (such as they are) and is a good example of his work. <br /> <br />O'Donnell, for whatever reason, is very attached to \\"elite\\" infantry units. In his book on the European Theater, this included paratroopers, rangers, and the members of the 1st Special Service Force. In the current book, which covers the Pacific Theater, the distinction between \\"elite\\" forces and the regular ones is somewhat more blurry: Army Rangers, paratroopers, and members of Merril's Marauders are the participants from the army, but the author chose to distinguish the Marine Raider and Parachute units from other Marine outfits. This is a weakness as all of these forces were disbanded in 1943-4, and so the book would be rather truncated as far as the Marine Corps went for the last 18 months or so of the war. This (of course) is unacceptable, so the author merely follows former members of these specialized units who were absorbed into other, regular Marine regiments. <br /> <br />The result is that some battles are covered in considerable detail here, while others (notably Saipan and Peleliu) are ignored because the Marines who participated in these campaigns weren't \\"elite.\\" This includes members of the 1st Marine Division, who were arguably the most experienced in terms of combat against Japanese soldiers. So what's here is rather skewed and somewhat disjointed, but if you accept that, then the material that's here is worthwhile. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book, within its limitations, and I would recommend it and the others in O'Donnell's series, provided you accept what they are.	2005-01-29
370439:US	52850806	R23KJMG9F9DJQB	0940450011	568878936	Harriet Beecher Stowe : Three Novels : Uncle Tom's Cabin Or, Life Among the Lowly; The Minister's Wooing; Oldtown Folks (Library of America)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Outmoded fiction, but interesting nonetheless	This is a compilation of three novels written by Harriet Beecher Stowe. These books are together considered by the editor to be her most important works, so they are grouped together in this volume. While Uncle Tom's Cabin is probably the most influential novel in American history, I doubt many readers have ever heard of The Minister's Wooing or Oldtown Folks. The rating then can't involve just Uncle Tom's Cabin, but must discuss all three books. <br /> <br />Uncle Tom's Cabin, as noted above, is the most influential novel in American history. There's a famous anecdote, repeated in slightly different forms in different places, that President Lincoln, upon being introduced to her, referred to her as \\"the little lady who started the big war\\" or something to that affect. Uncle Tom's Cabin opened the world of slavery (in a somewhat homogenized form) to Northern readers who objected to slavery but were convinced it wasn't their problem. The book itself is rather sly: it puts a very good man who's a slave in a series of situations, and it's not until the last portion of the book that his slavery becomes intolerable. The trick is that within the world of \\"acceptable\\" slavery, the situation is intolerable, with families being split and various other calamities. The result is to make the reader oppose slavery, even in situations when the master of the slaves were good-natured, compassionate people. <br /> <br />The Minister's Wooing is a different sort of story. It's set sometime just after the American Revolution in New England, and the main characters are a woman of middle years and her teenaged daughter, who have a boarder, the Minister of the title. The mother sets her heart on getting the Minister to marry her daughter, and off we go for a 300 page romance novel. The romantic aspect of the novel is very very tame by our modern standards, but the worst part of the book is the treacly religious fervor that pervades every page of the book. I think most modern fundamentalists would think it overdone. One odd circumstance is the appearance of Aaron Burr (prior to his shooting Alexander Hamilton) as a secondary character in the book: the author doesn't approve of Mr. Burr. <br /> <br />Oldtown Folks is set similarly to The Minister's Wooing, in New England at about the turn of the 18th Century. The book is told in the first person, with the narrator being the son of a widow. They befriend a pair of orphans from a neighboring village, and the bulk of the book surrounds one of the orphans, a young girl named Tina who bewitches everyone who knows her with her bright personality and wonderful demeanor. Some of the characters in this novel are especially well-drawn: one old woman is so hateful that you just despise her, more than the characters in the book do. The problem, again, is that the book just goes on and on, for almost 600 pages, and it takes forever to run to its conclusion. <br /> <br />All three novels deal with the inequities of society in the period in which they are set, and all three have the aforementioned religious overtones that are completely overdone by modern standards. If you can overcome the latter, the former are interesting, but I can't recommend either The Minister's Wooing or Oldtown Folks. Uncle Tom's Cabin is of course required reading for anyone interested in American history, and frankly is the best book of the three anyway.	2005-01-28
388268:US	52850806	R1NU43MZ8VIGKK	0060907878	873623267	Civilisation: A Personal View	Books	3	13	19	N	N	Good, if only about art	This is one of those books which you would expect to be about something, but when you open it you find it's really about something else. You would expect a book titled \\"Civilisation\\" to be about, well...civilisation. Instead, it's about art in its various forms, and how they reflect the civilisation that they accompany. Further, it has nothing to do with art outside Western Europe: Poland, the Balkans, Scandinavia, and Russia are all ignored, to say nothing of Africa, the Middle East, Asia, or Latin America. The author excuses it by saying that while he admires art from there, he knows little about it, and this book is about what he knows: art, primarily painting, from ancient Greece and Rome, Italy, France, and Britain, with a bit from the U.S.A. and Spain, up to the mid-18th Century. <br /> <br />The book is really the transcript of a televised series of the same title, narrated by the author. This gives it a conversational style that's readable and interesting, and which pulls the book along quite nicely. It's accompanied by almost 300 illustrations, in my edition, many in color. It's a beautiful book, and very interesting, but rather limited by the subject and the medium of the published book made from TV. These (I've read one other, by J.F.C. Fuller, on leaders in World War II) have strange limitations, because they tend to be very personal, from the point of view of the narrator. So I enjoyed this book, but with rather large limitations: the author's opinions are really what the book is about, and if you aren't interested in those, you're wasting your time.	2005-01-14
388319:US	52850806	RE9D0LLM0N2MC	006051390X	808869082	Bold Sons of Erin: A Novel of Suspense (Abel Jones Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Abel Jones progresses through the Civil War	This is the fifth book in the Abel Jones series, written by Owen Parry, who to my mind is approaching the status of a national treasure. For the uninitiated, Jones is a Welshman who served in Queen Victoria's army in the 1850's, was a sergeant, and saw considerable combat, especially in the Sepoy Rebellion (1857). After many experiences, he made his way to America with a wife and child, swearing to never fight again, only to be confronted with something he can't ignore or sit out: a war to free the slaves. Jones, you see, is very religious, and can't abide slavery; he must, therefore, enlist and use his soldiering skills to do his part in that institution's demise. Wounded at First Bull Run in the leg, so that he can't run or even walk without a cane, he is transferred to more indistinct duties. Instead of clerking somewhere, he's a sort of ad hoc investigator for the Union army, which sets the scene for a wonderful series of private eye novels disguised in a Civil War uniform.  <br /> <br />In this, the fifth installment, Jones is sent to coal country in Pennsylvania to discover who murdered a Union general who had been sent there to recruit new soldiers from among the Irish coal miners. The Irish are uninterested, many of them, in fighting for the Union with the goal of freeing the slaves, who many of the Irish see as potential rivals for the menial jobs that those Irishmen now hold down. The supposed killer of the General is a local Irish coal miner, who confessed and then conveniently caught cholera and died, out of cholera season. Jones, however, is not convinced the man is dead, and digs up his grave, to view the body. Instead of the dead man, however, the coffin is inhabited by a young woman, stabbed to death, and this sets Jones to investigating to discover what's going on. <br /> <br />Jones is a marvelous character, full of the prejudices and quirks of the 19th Century man. These, however, don't make him evil, just a product of his times. The character iswell-drawn and intelligent, and the supporting cast is well done also, from General Thomas Meagher and President Lincoln to various fictional  coal miners and other figures. This book also represents the first break in the narrative of Jones' Civil War service: there's mention of his adventures surrounding the Battle of Antietam, but  that episode wasn't the previous book. In addition, there's also reference to the Molly Maguires and other episodes from the post-war period, telling us that Abel Jones will probably move along after the war. One reviewer complained that the Molly Maguires aren't well-defined, here, but of course they hadn't formed yet, so they would be ill-defined, wouldn't they? <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book immensely, and would recommend it to any fan of mysteries, or anyone interested in the Civil War.	2005-01-14
392370:US	52850806	R1YGC16ZXZNHOY	0380806436	376951240	Partisans and Redcoats: The Southern Conflict That Turned the Tide of the American Revolution	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Interesting, if a bit obscure	This book attempts to cover the part of the American Revolution in South Carolina (and by extension the South in general) that general history books overlook or at least partially ignore. This portion of the war (the partisan war that occurred between Loyalist and Rebel forces in the state) is often overlooked because what battles were fought between these forces were generally small. Those that were larger (King's Mountain and the Cowpens, primarily) are often treated as if they were isolated incidents, related only to one another and the battles of Camden and Guilford Court House. By contrast, Edgar weaves the account of the war in South Carolina into the overall history of the Revolution, and recounts various smaller fights in the state that he believes changed the course of the war. Chiefly, he beleives that the Partisan victory referred to as Huck's Defeat was crucial in turning the tide of public opinion in the Backcountry part of the state, which in turn was crucial in preventing the British from pacifying the whole region. He therefore ascribes a considerable importance to this minor battle, in which several hudred partisans ambushed about 115 Tories, killing or capturing most of them, including their commander, Captain Christian Huck. <br /> <br />This is interesting, and the author does a good job of depicting the war in the South in 1780. The civil nature of the conflict (brother against brother, etc.) is highlighted, and also the atrocities and violence of the war and its practitioners. The author doesn't spend much time on the conventional war in the state: King's Mountain and Guilford Courthouse are only briefly discussed, and the Cowpens isn't even really discussed at all, except in its consequences. This narrowing of the focus of the book leads to a very brief volume (less than 200 pages; less than 150 of text). This is in a way good: Mr. Edgar is a college instructor, and his writing style is much more suitable for a weighty tome than something someone would actually read. <br /> <br />All in all, though, this is a worthwhile book, and I would certainly recommend it to those interested in the American Revolution, or to partisan or irregular warfare in general.	2005-01-11
394620:US	52850806	R14K2YTF6HN7WJ	0345452585	999720718	The Conspiracy Club	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Slow and Eerie	Jonathan Kellerman is a very good author. Many years ago, on one of his first books, he got a blurb from Stephen King, saying he'd revived the Private Eye novel singlehandedly. I don't know about that, but he has done a lot, and the books he writes are very interesting. The style that he uses is interesting, and you can tell that he works at the prose and the characters.<br /><br />The Conspiracy Club is a complete departure for him. Most of his novels are technology-driven to an extent anyway, and the characters and action are reasonably rational. The atmosphere, such as it is, comes from the city they're in, the tension between the characters, that sort of thing. And there's a plot, generally a fast-moving one with twists and turns, false clues and real killers.<br /><br />Here, instead, we have what's almost a Gothic Romance novel. Dr. Jeremy Carrier is a shrink at a hospital in a nameless easter city (ala Scott Turow). His live-in girlfriend was killed six months before the start of the book, and he was the chief suspect, but the police could never develop enough evidence to arrest him. He wanders through the first hundred pages or so of the book, not really sure why he's so suspicious of everyone, meeting interesting people and not being sure what their motivations are.<br /><br />Somewhere in there, it becomes obvious that something's going on, but what it is remains murky and indistinct for most of the book. It's clear it has to do with the girlfriend's murder, but not how or why. As Jeremy slowly burrows his way through the mystery, following leads and suspects, we begin to suspect that someone else is controlling the pace, somehow, but we're not sure.<br /><br />This is an interesting, atmospheric novel. There's not as much plot, or as many twists, as the usual Alex Delaware novel, but there are enough for the usual reader. The characters, however, and the atmosphere, are palpable, and this is what shines through: Kellerman's skill with prose is undeniable.<br /><br />I would highly recommend this book.eniable. <br /> <br />I would highly recommend this book.	2005-01-09
399949:US	52850806	R1O0ZFR2M7ZNAI	0575073136	262899367	The Hollow Chocolate Bunnies of the Apocalypse	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Strange beyond strange	I've read some strange books over the years. My wife got me this one as a Christmas present. It's not particularly long, and it moves right along at a brisk pace, with something-or-other happening in virtually every chapter. The author is sly and very aware of the reader, and he makes characters that are aware also. So why give it only 3 stars? <br /> <br />Well, first there's the issue of creativity. This is, essentially, Who Framed Roger Rabbit, but with a Toy Story set of characters. Toy City is populated mostly by toys, and the few real people there are often Preadolescent Poetic Personalities (or PPPs; they hate the designation \\"Nursery Rhyme Characters,\\" thinking it demeaning) who live on the royalties from their Nursery Rhymes. When someone starts killing off the PPPs of the town, starting with Humpty Dumpty, things get very strange. <br /> <br />Enter Jack, a nobody from a factory outside the city who runs away from home, hoping to get to the City and seek his fortune. Jack soon meets a talking Teddy Bear who was the silent partner of Bill Winkie, the private eye of Toy City. Bill had started working on the case of Humpty Dumpty's murder when he himself vanished, and so now Eddie Bear needs a new partner. Jack seems  to fit the bill, and they set off on an adventure. <br /> <br />The whole of this book is pervaded with an eccentric weirdness that's at times engaging and at times wearing. There's also the issue of the writing style. I like British authors, and have read many who have what (to an American anyway) comes off as a strange  way of expressing themselves, but this is a bit too much. The first time the author used the phrase \\"well known to those who know it well\\" I thought it was cute. The fifth time, it was a bit tiresome, and that was only about a third of the way through the book. He used it all told seemingly every chapter. There are also plot twists and annoyances that are just beyone belief: at one point, the author has the two main charactersjust sit and wait for the marvelous contrivance that will get them out of the current situation, and then conveniently provides it. The ending isn't as unexpected as you'd think, either. <br /> <br />All in all, I enjoyed this book, just not a great deal. I would recommend it to anyone who thinks they'd be interested in the above plot. <br /> <br />Oh, and another thing. Much has been made in some of the other reviews of the supposed anti-Bush episode at the end of the book. It's there, not particularly funny or inventive, but given the rest of the plot not that surprising. What's amusing is the one reviewer who asserted that this had somehow made the book harder to find in America. Michael Moore, Al Franken, Molly Ivins, Bill Mahr, Bill Press, and everyone else in liberal America seem to be able to get \\"The Bush-hater's Guide to Picking Your Nose\\" published, but a harmless comic novel like this must be stopped! Just goes to show you, conspiracy theories come in all flavors.	2005-01-05
401534:US	52850806	R18025JCVL3T2N	0553291599	480396521	General Maxwell Taylor	Books	4	5	5	N	N	General's son writes his biography	This is a biography of an American soldier, not one of the first rank in prominence, but still an important figure and an interesting man. Maxwell D. Taylor was assistant division commander of the 82nd Airborne Division through the Mediterranean campaign, visiting Rome incognito to scope out the prospects for the proposed airdrop on the Italian capitol in 1943. When the commander of the 101st Airborne fell ill early in '44, Taylor was the obvious successor, and he led that division through Normandy, Holland, the Ardennes, right up to the end of the war. <br /> <br />There was more to Maxwell Taylor than soldiering, though. He spoke half a dozen languages fluently (oddly, given where he served in the War, one of the languages was Japanese) and spent some time as director of the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts in New York City. After the war, he rose to prominent rank in the army, commanding the forces in Korea in the last days of the conflict there, then serving as the Chief of Staff of the Army. He broke with the Eisenhower administration over policy issues, entered the private sector, and only returned when President Kennedy asked him to head up an inquiry into the Bay of Pigs fiasco. He served as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs under Kennedy, and as Ambassador to Viet Nam, before finally retiring. <br /> <br />The author of this book is John M. Taylor, who happens to be the General's son. The book is therefor an interesting study in how analytical an author can be when writing about his own father. Frankly I think Taylor does a good job with Taylor, being relatively objective when he needs to be, and stating what the General thought about a particular issue intelligently. <br /> <br />This is a relatively good biography of a relatively obscure figure. I don't imagine there will be another bio for a good long time, and that's fine, because this book will suffice.	2005-01-04
413996:US	52850806	R4JHMWP9RF48G	0142437905	978537760	Storm of Steel (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Truly Amazing---but an uneven translation	This was one of the first books written to depict combat in the First World War, and the author was much hailed at the time. He lived on throught WW2 and later, and only died in 1998 at the age of 102. This is apparently his most famous book (though he was quite prolific) and it apparently had a lasting effect on German society and political thinking.<br /><br />The strange thing about all of this, of course, is that the book is only about fighting, and has *no* overt or over-arching politics in it at all. There's absolutely no context for the book whatsoever: the author doesn't even bother to mention the entrance of the United States into the war, for instance, and only briefly refers to the Eastern Front. There's nothing about his life prior to the war, and the story abruptly ends with the author receiving the Pour le Merite two months before Germany's surrender.<br /><br />What the book is, then, is a harrowing account of combat in the First World War from the point of view of a common soldier who was promoted from the ranks to the rank of an officer, but never rose past company command. He fights continuously throughout the book, except for the passages where he's either wounded and in the hospital, or on furlough or in reserve. He was wounded an astounding 14 times, leaving out what the author calls \\"trifles\\" such as grazes and spent bullets, and wound up with 20 scars. It's an extraordinary tale, to say the least.<br /><br />I do have a few problems with the translation, however, and that's the sole reason that this book didn't get five stars. Translator Hoffman is apparently British, though one wonders if that's his native tongue, to be frank. At one point he refers to \\"specialism\\" when he clearly (from context) means \\"specialty,\\" in another passage he calls some soldiers \\"cookers.\\" He uses words not commonly seen in books (\\"tilth\\") and occasionally his grammar is clumsy. Also, while the book as written provides no context, the author refers to things that he clearly expects the reader to understand. In a couple of instances that I caught, one involving Junger and his soldiers urinating into the jacket of a water-cooled machinegun, the other a reference to the Langemarck volunteers, the average reader of today wouldn't understand what the author was referring to. I understood the references, but the next reader might not.<br /><br />Given that this is not the most scintillating translation in the world, it's still an amazing story, and well worth the time of almost anyone. I highly recommend it.that he clearly expects the reader to understand. In a couple of instances that I caught, one involving Junger and his soldiers urinating into the jacket of a water-cooled machinegun, the other a reference to the Langemarck volunteers, the average reader of today wouldn't understand what the author was referring to. I understood the references, but the next reader might not.  <br /> <br />Given that this is not the most scintillating translation in the world, it's still an amazing story, and well worth the time of almost anyone. I highly recommend it.	2004-12-24
420300:US	52850806	RGKOCAEKVHIQ8	006059327X	821838254	Cold Pursuit	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Parker is the new Ross MacDonald	Back when I was a kid, I first discovered private eye novels by reading those of the Canadian trasplant named Ken Millar, who wrote the Lew Archer novels under the pen name Ross MacDonald. Millar had a wonderful understanding of Southern California's landscape and atmosphere, as much as the other transplant private eye novelist, Raymond Chandler, and was much more prolific in addition. When I read T. Jefferson Parker's first novel, Laguna Heat, I was immediately convinced that here was the heir of MacDonald, and by extension Chandler: someone with a wonderful sense of the atmosphere of California, the people and their motivations, the landscape and the politics. Frankly, in the intervening two decades or so, he's only gotten better. Several of his recent books (most notably Silent Joe) have the possibility of turning into classics. Cold Pursuit, his latest, is another very very good book. <br /> <br />Tom McMichael is a San Diego P.D. homicide detective, and he's on call when Pete Braga, an elderly businessman and local politician. However, McMichael's supervisor calls him, he gives McMichael the option to pass on the case. It soon develops that Braga, back half a century ago, shot McMichael's grandfather to death, and when Braga's oldest son was beaten senseless, McMichael's father was the odds-on favorite suspect, though his best friend gave him an alibi. All of this bad blood didn't keep McMichael from having an affair with a Braga when he was a teenager, in spite of the danger from both sides of the family. <br /> <br />Despite all of this, McMichael takes on the case, and commences his investigation with the pretty nurse who was getting large and valuable gifts from the old guy. Things widen from there, and McMichael and his partners must follow the various suspects through a number of venues, even crossing the border to Mexico following suspected smugglers. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book a great deal, and these days I look forward to the next Parker novel about as much as any other. I highly recommend this book, and echo the sentiment of other reviewers that Parker ought to be better known than he is.	2004-12-17
433568:US	52850806	R2TXDA5S2HI8PR	0425165108	559930774	Americans at War	Books	2	5	13	N	N	Mediocre and very uneven collection of military articles	This isn't really a book, or even an essay collection. Instead, the  publisher decided to put this out when Stephen Ambrose was at the height of his popularity. It's a collection of magazine articles and essays that Ambrose wrote over the course of about 30 years. Some are long and detailed (the first piece, on the Vicksburg campaign, is about 40 pages long, and 30+ years old) while others are much shorter, and some are very new. One (the piece on The Christmas bombing in Viet Nam) is a reprint from MHQ, the article there in turn excerpted from Ambrose's bio of Nixon. <br /> <br />For those who aren't familiar with my opinions (which is probably most of you) Ambrose isn't my favorite historian by any stretch of the imagination. He started out a conventional narrative historian and biographer, but tended to run with whichever trend or fad the historical community thought was cool that year. Crazy Horse and Custer, for instance, spends some time comparing the toilet training practices of the societies the two men grew up in, with of course the expected inferiority of white society highlighted when compared with that of Native Americans. A few years later, oral history became the watchword, and Ambrose essentially hitched his horse to that wagon for the rest of his career, writing five or six books that relied on this medium most or all of the time. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, here we don't even get much oral history. These writings are mostly from the pre-oral history era of Ambrose's scholarship, and the newer pieces focus on historical pieces as opposed to oral history ones. As a result, we get opinions on such topics as George Custer (whom Ambrose despises; anyone who read Crazy Horse and Custer already knows that), MacArthur, Grant, Eisenhower (of course), and various other figures and topics from American military history. Some of the pieces are now essentially useless: one titled \\"The Cold War in Perspective\\" is so out of date now as to be a waste of one's timeto read. <br /> <br />That leaves us with some Ambrose opinions (many of them uninformed, at best) and a few pieces of good writing that cover topics you could probably find other material on. I wouldn't recommend this book to much of anyone, though there are a few pieces in it that someone might find worthwhile.	2004-12-06
435626:US	52850806	RCBQHDUB1B8BN	0375507388	997012195	Lincoln's War: The Untold Story of America's Greatest President as Commander in Chief	Books	1	12	14	N	N	Good writing trumped by Inaccurate History	This is one of those books I wanted to be good, and was sorely disappointed when I read it and found it wasn't anywhere near as good as I hoped it would be. While the writing's good, the history is hopelessly inaccurate. This is one of my rules: if you catch errors, significant ones, in a book of history, then you must wonder if any of the facts that you accept are correct. Some may be: my knowledge of Civil War history is pretty good. But in some instances, I am not familiar with the anecdote Perret recounts, and since his accuracy is in doubt, I can't take anything the author says seriously. This makes the book essentially worthless. <br /> <br />To recount just a few of the errors: (for those who doubt) the Prince de Salm-Salm is identified as an Austrian (how did he get killed in the Franco-*Prussian* War, then?); O.O.Howard commanded  the XII Corps (in reality the XI); and John Bell Hood wins the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain, only to see his army annhilated at the Battle of Franklin by George Thomas. If you don't see the inaccuracy of the last assertion, get yourself a copy of Battle Cry of Freedom, or something (anything) else on the Civil War.  <br /> <br />I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone, and I think Perret needs to look into a new editor.	2004-12-04
440851:US	52850806	R1RXMAFL85ZFOE	0313222800	463301318	George Washington's Generals.	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Interesting sketches of important figures of the Revolution	This is an interesting and well-written collection of essays, each of which is a biography of one of the more prominent generals of the American Revolution, on the American side. There's a companion volume which profiles British generals during the same conflict, and there's a newer edition (as far as I know unrevised) which combines the two works in one volume. <br /> <br />This volume includes a chapter on Washington himself, along with essays on Charles Lee, Philip Schuyler, Horatio Gates, Nathaniel Greene, John Sullivan, Benedict Arnold, Benjamin Lincoln, the Marquis de Lafayette, Henry Knox, Anthony Wayne, and Daniel Morgan. I was most interested in the pieces on Gates (where the author tries to exonerate him) and Lee (ditto), and most educated by the essays on Sullivan, Knox, Wayne, and Morgan, all of whom I knew little about. Each essay is footnoted, and each is also accompanied by a critical bibliography, which though forty years out of date is still valuable. <br /> <br />I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the American Revolution. It's the sort of thing you'd find indespensable.	2004-11-29
441770:US	52850806	RHE7IM5QXU0DE	031230935X	702211299	Gettysburg: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Interesting alternative history of Gettysburg	There are any number of alternative history books and articles that  posit a Confederate victory at one point or another in the Civil War. Of course Gettysburg gets more than its share of this stuff, all the way back to Faulkner's famous assertion that all Southern boys imagine participating in Pickett's Charge, and imagine that they can change history, this time. Given that the authors are Southerners, and that this has been done before, I was, to be frank, somewhat apprehensive as I started this book, and the first 50 pages or so didn't dissuade me from my negative feelings.<br /><br />The authors, of course, are familiar with the lore of the battle as seen through the lens of the \\"Lost Cause.\\" One of the hoary old \\"truths\\" of Gettysburg is the Confederate claim that if Ewelll hadn't hesitated and ultimately flinched when faced with Cemetary Hill, he could have captured that height, and unhinged the whole Union position. In this book, Lee does that many neo-Rebs fantasize about: instead of issuing a vague discretionary order, he goes himself to Ewell's headquarters, and demands action, immediately. The attack goes in aggressively, as most Southerners think it should have, though things aren't perfect: the divisions are a bit uncoordinated.<br /><br />This is where things get interesting. I've always been of the opinion that Southerners and what I call the neo-Rebs are essentially overconfident with regards to this supposed \\"easy\\" attack. There were troops at the top of that hill, some who had been there for hours, fortifying, and artillery with extra ammunition. In this book, what I believe would have happened does: the Union artillery blows the Confederate attackers right off the hill, and the Union manages to hold the hill.<br /><br />This results in a council of war that evening in Lee's headquarters, and Longstreet speaks up, advocating his march around the Southern flank of the Union army. Instead of ignoring him (as he did in real life) Lee decides to go along with it, and further goads him by various references to Jackson, and how the fabled dead general would have handled the situation. The result, as you can imagine, isn't the same as the one that followed the actual battle.<br /><br />There are a few things that I found annoying or unrealistic or bad representations of people in this book. The authors (or their editors) mispell Robert Rodes' name repeatedly, and some of the characters act in ways that are uncharacteristic. I don't, for instance, believe that the manipulation attributed to Lee and recounted above would ever, in actuality, have occurred to the man, let alone seemed honorable enough to actually do. I did enjoy the depiction of the Union army generals, though. Hancock of course is seen as the backbone of the army. Henry Hunt is one of the main characters, a soldier very decisive in the actual Union victory at Gettysburg who is usually ignored. And old Daniel Sickles is better treated than he usually is, and frankly I don't think it's unreasonable. He's shown in the book as vain, arrogant, and disdainful of West Pointers, but aggressive, brave, and devoted to the Union, and lastly not quite the buffoon that others have thought him since, all accurate observations, far as I'm concerned.<br /><br />I enjoyed this book a great deal, and aside from the flaws above, I found it fun. It's not very well-served by the maps in the text (The Killer Angels did a better job of that) but besides that and the misgivings I put forward above, this is a very good alternative history novel.go along with it, and further goads him by various references to Jackson, and how the fabled dead general would have handled the situation. The result, as you can imagine, isn't the same as the one that followed the actual battle. <br /> <br />There are a few things that I found annoying or unrealistic or bad representations of people in this book. The authors (or their editors) mispell Robert Rodes' name repeatedly, and some of the characters act in ways that are uncharacteristic. I don't, for instance, believe that the manipulation attributed to Lee and recounted above would ever, in actuality, have occurred to the man, let alone seemed honorable enough to actually do. I did enjoy the depiction of the Union army generals, though. Hancock of course is seen as the backbone of the army. Henry Hunt is one of the main characters, a soldier very decisive in the actual Union victory at Gettysburg who is usually ignored. And old Daniel Sickles is better treated than he usually is, and frankly I don't think it's unreasonable. He's shown in the book as vain, arrogant, and disdainful of West Pointers, but aggressive, brave, and devoted to the Union, and lastly not quite the buffoon that others have thought him since, all accurate observations, far as I'm concerned. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book a great deal, and aside from the flaws above, I found it fun. It's not very well-served by the maps in the text (The Killer Angels did a better job of that) but besides that and the misgivings I put forward above, this is a very good alternative history novel.	2004-11-29
446859:US	52850806	R1PBTFXWQTDCWL	0465037186	903649002	Gunpowder: Alchemy, Bombards, And Pyrotechnics: The History Of The Explosive That Changed The World	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Unusual take on the "Fire Drug"	This is one of those social histories, rather than a serious attempt to cover every aspect of something. Instead of writing everything that could be known about gunpowder, the author instead keeps you interested and involved by writing a shorter, more interesting book that covers most of the basics without bogging down. The result is an entertaining look at the world of explosives from their inception until the end of the 19th century, when the original version of gunpowder was superceded by newer, more efficient compounds. <br /> <br />There is much to be learned here: the Chinese using the material to entertain themselves, and propel rockets at their enemies; the inventors in Europe who knew the powder was volatile, but not why; bishops asked to provide their urine as a component for the powder; a gunner who was made to do penance because he managed to fire his enormous gun three times in one day (he must have made a deal with the devil); and so forth. Author Kelly brings all of these characters together, and makes the whole very interesting. <br /> <br />This is a very good book, with a lot of interesting information in it. The military parts of the book tend to be rather sketchy (the Civil War boils down to the battles of Petersburg, Gettysburg, and Mobile Bay, for instance) but the overall effect is to make a book that's readable and not to technical. The rest of the book, dealing with the refining of the technology and its uses, is interesting, if similarly brief. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the subject, or anyone who reads general non-fiction.	2004-11-23
447469:US	52850806	R1UBBOILYE0WQY	0788169475	780378473	Stalin's Generals	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Revealing short bios of various Soviet Generals	This is an interesting book, one of a series which collects short biographies of various generals from a particular nation. They also did one for Britain and one for Germany---as far as I know that was as far as they got. This book collects a large number of these short pieces, some only a few pages long, and some as long as 20 pages. They're by various individuals, from names that were familiar to me (David Glantz, John Erikson, Dmitri Volkogonov) to those that weren't so familiar (Victor Anfilov, Richard Woff, etc.). Each of these bios is interesting in its own right, the main theme being that most of the Soviet army commanders from the World War II era weren't very good strategists. Stalin killed off most of the better commanders during the purges. <br /> <br />There are some interesting vignettes here. Volkogonov, for instance, is particularly scathing when writing about Voroshilov, while Anfilov pretty much falls all over himself praising Zhukov. Various of the other bios are interesting and more or less objective. Given that this is a collection of essays by different people, there's bound to be some variation. One thing is constant, though. None of the authors has much use for Stalin himself. <br /> <br />There are 26 pieces here, the last one (titled Stalin's Ghosts) covering the victims of the purges (other than Tukhachevsky, who gets his own piece) and those killed in combat during the war. There's a lot of information here, and much of it is stuff you can't find anywhere else, at least in English. On that note alone, I would recommend this book.	2004-11-23
451822:US	52850806	R3RQHRPX1QNQSF	0385508409	860702312	The White Russian: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Worthy follow-up to The Master of Rain	Tom Bradby is the latest hit mystery writer from Britain, following Robert Wilson, who wrote \\"A Small Death in Lisbon\\" a few years ago.  Bradby's \\"The Master of Rain\\" was one of the best novels of a couple of years ago, a wonderful, atmospheric novel with multiple fascinating characters and a plot that was wonderful. If James Ellroy had written a historical novel set in 1926 Shanghai, with killers, corrupt cops, and women who have prostituted themselves to buy food, it would look a lot like \\"The Master of Rain.\\" \\"The White Russian\\" is a wonderful follow-up to \\"The Master of Rain,\\" again an atmospheric novel, this time set in the Petrograd of 1917, where a compromised police investigator (Sandro Ruzsky) is looking into the killing of a couple on the frozen River Neva. The detective is a disgraced nobleman, partially rejected by his family and just returned from 3 years in exile for the death of a suspect in a killing, killed himself by the other prisoners in jail.  <br /> <br />The dead are a young girl and a middle-aged man, stabbed to death. The two turn out to be a nanny for the young son of the Tsar, and a labor agitator and rabble-rouser from Chicago. As Ruzsky and his partner, Pavel Miliutin, are confronted by various characters, from the local head of the Okhrana (the precursor to the KGB) to various other revolutionaries and characters in pre-Revolutionary Petrograd (one of the annoyances of the book is the subtitle on the cover, which mentions St. Petersburg, the name of which was changed in 1914). <br /> <br />This is one of the better books in the last few years. It has a sort of Chandleresque air to it, with a definite tinge of Russian also, to the point you can at times almost smell the borsht. My one complaint was the ending, which made little sense to me, and seemed kind of anti-climactic. This is one of those books like Chandler, however, where the plot is secondary to the atmosphere and the characters. I enjoyed this novel a great deal, and would recommend it to almost everyone.	2004-11-18
456222:US	52850806	R1KG5P40G3LBUR	0316605611	844089987	Ten Days to D-Day: Citizens and Soldiers on the Eve of the Invasion	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Interesting take on D-Day	David Stafford is an unusual historian. He writes analytical books that study the Second World War, mostly from the perspective of the intelligence war and the partisans. He writes clearly and intelligently, and spends most of his time analyzing the various parts of the war, and their meaning. This book, by contrast, is something that is for Stafford completely different: instead of the intelligence war, and instead of analysis, Stafford instead focuses on showing us the world or a large part of it during the ten days leading up to the D-Day invasion. <br /> <br />The book focuses on various people in various walks of life who did various things during the war. The book is divided into chapters, one for each of the 10 days, the last being D-Day itself. Each of those chapters is divided into sections, each of which highlights the daily life and experiences of someone involved, directly or indirectly, in the war. They range from a Canadian infantry lieutenant and an American paratrooper to a British female code clerk, an SOE operative in France, all the way around to a Jew hiding in someone's house in France and a Norwegian resister in prison for assisting in the publication of an underground newspaper. Each of these individuals is followed through their daily lives, the soldiers preparing for the invasion, the rest wondering when it would happen. <br /> <br />One really unusual and interesting wrinkle that Stafford manages to incorporate is that the characters he chose to follow weren't all survivors of the events covered in the book. This involves a little harmless invention of presumed emotions and thoughts, but frankly that's overshadowed by the uniqueness of what he writes. For instance, one of the pictures in the picture section shows Sherman tanks lined up in an English village, with housewives hanging washing out to dry right next to them. <br /> <br />It's rather surprising that at this late date someone could write something unique on D-Day and the campaignin France. The fact remains, however, that this is a very unique book, and a very interesting one.	2004-11-15
463014:US	52850806	RVJ67JYWVECRZ	044667964X	360210179	The Final Country	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Crumley in fine form	This is the sixth or seventh James Crumley novel, and it's a pretty good entry in his library. This time out, Milo Milodragovitch is living in Texas with a woman he picked up in a previous book, washing drug money he stole from some drug dealers through a bar he owns, and doing a little business on the side as a private detective to fight off the boredom. When one of the cases he takes on goes sideways on him, and someone gets killed right in front of him, he reacts like an old pointer who sees a bird get shot: he takes off running to see if he can figure things out. Other characters intervene, someone tries to kill him, and the plot thickens considerably. <br /> <br />There's a marvelous story told about Raymond Chandler. Soon after he wrote The Little Sister, Billy Wilder was filming a movie version of the book, using a screenplay that followed the plot as much as possible. The first day, Wilder filmed a scene where Marlowe finds a body, and then the end of the movie, where he explains who killed who and why. There was no explanation of the dead body in the first scene, so Wilder got a bright idea and sent a telegram to Chandler (they were friends) and asked him who  killed that character. He received the reply: \\"I have no idea.\\" The point is that for Chandler, plot was secondary to action, dialog, characters, and atmosphere, not necessarily in that order. This is very much the case with Crumley. The plot in \\"The Final Country\\" wanders all over the place, and doesn't make a whole lot of sense, to be frank. The dialog, action, atmosphere, and some of the characters, are so interesting, however, that for those of us who *do* get Crumley (at least sort of) it doesn't matter if the plot follows. Others, of course, who want a more conventional mystery with a straightforward plot, will find him somewhat wanting. I still like him, though, and I enjoyed \\"The Final Country.\\"	2004-11-08
463566:US	52850806	R3EYOFJJFOA7FL	0226703193	720999074	Importing the European Army: The Introduction of European Military Techniques and Institutions in the Extra-European World, 1600-1914	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Mediocre history, Ill-defined premise	This is one of the more dissappointing books I've read in recent years. I was expecting to read a book about countries adapting their armies to European standards as they came into contact with the European armies themselves, and discovered how effective they were. Instead, I found myself sunk in a quagmire of glutinous prose recounting the political and social consequences of adopting those European standards, without much mention or thought of what they were. <br /> <br />The author seems almost uninterested in the military aspect of things, which seems curious given the title of the book. There is , however, no discussion at all of how the armies discussed in the book were organized before they were \\"Europeanized\\" or how that organization changed afterwards, and of course weapons and tactices aren't discussed at all except in the most vague terms. While the main point of the narrative --- that countries which Europeanized their armies found their societies transformed by the action also --- is worthwhile, it doesn't need to be restated for most of the book, as it is. <br /> <br />There are a host of other, detail-oriented things which annoyed me about the book. One is that the title implies that we're going to be discussing *non-European* countries receiving European military organization, but the first country under discussion is Russia, which is usually considere to be *in Europe.* The author also includes a silly little politically correct apology for referring to the process of Europeanizing the army as \\"modernizing\\" because this might imply that other military organizations were inferior (which they were; otherwise their rulers wouldn't have replaced them with European ones) and there are various other parts of the book which are more or less annoying. <br /> <br />William H. McNeill wrote a blurb for the back cover, which I suppose sold a few copies. I'm afraid, however, that I'd have to disagree with him. The focus here is too narrow, and the discussion too limited, to have much value. It's also really densely written: the prose would put even a Professor to sleep. I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone, unless the person was *very* interested in the subject.	2004-11-08
464105:US	52850806	RK454J18SMN5I	0743235576	133942271	Storm on the Horizon: Khafji--The Battle That Changed the Course of the Gulf War	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Immediate You-are-there history of the battle of Khafji	There are any number of books on the US Marine Corps in various wars, and in peacetime. There have only been a few books, however, that focus on the first Gulf War, and most of those are broad-horizon views of things from the point of view of the Theater Commander or at least a corps or division leader. There are relatively few tactical studies that look at the individuals who fought the battles and skirmishes of the war, and discuss what they did and felt and saw. <br /> <br />David Morris was a Marine officer for four years in the mid-90s, and left the Corps to get a degree and become a writer. This, his first book, is a detailed account of both ends of the Battle of Khafji, dealing on the one end with the fighting in Khafji itself, and on the other hand with the Iraqi armored attack on the Light Armored Infantry units of the USMC. The author describes the latter first. The battle included a deep reconnaissance platoon, which was occupying the border post at a break in the berm the Saudis used prior to the start of the war to thwart smugglers. Behind them were deployed a company of LAV-25s, fast and lightly armored Marine pseudo-tanks which were unsuited for anything other than hit-and-run tactics when confronted with real tanks. <br /> <br />The Deep Reconnaisance Platoon was stranded in contact with the Iraqis when the attack began, and it took them sometime to decide to retreat. While they had the transport to get out, they were also thinking they should perform their duties by reporting the attack as it occurred, and enumerate such things as number of vehicles and direction of advance. Unfortunately, their radios didn't work, and so they were unable to. The LAV company decided to move in to extract the Recon guys, but because of recon's radio troubles, they wound up not doing so. Instead, recon extracted themselves, and the LAV's fought a skirmish with the Iraqis. One LAV armed with TOW missiles shot and destroyed another, killing all four crewmen, and a second LAV full of Marines was knocked out, apparently by an Air Force A-10 overhead. The Iraqis inflicted no casualties, and the American forces retreated. Next morning, the Iraqis withdrew across the border, and the Americans reoccupied their positions. <br /> <br />In Khafji, there were two Air Naval Gun Liason Company teams, called ANGLICOs. Each was trained to control air and naval support assets, and was consequently well-equipped with radios for communication. When everyone else evacuated the city of Khafji, they stayed, hidden in buildings, watching the Iraqi forces and calling down artillery strikes and air attacks on the unsuspecting enemy forces. <br /> <br />These two series of events are related with intelligence and you-are-there immediacy, and they're very interesting. However, prospective readers should be aware of the author's bias. The author is a former Marine, and most of the narrative focuses on Marines also. This leads to the typical \\"The Marines Rule and everyone else Sucks!\\" attitude that is pervasive in Marine literature. The army is depicted as a bunch of cowardly (even the Special Forces), incompetent, over-equipped buffoons. The Air Force is obsessed with their toys, and just spread the ordinanace they carry around the battlefield indiscriminately, bombing both friend and foe. The Arabs (both Iraqi opponents and Saudi and Qatari allies) are depicted as greedy children, horrible shots who never train and try to leave all the fighting to the Americans, then take credit for anything good that happens. Only the Marine Corps has anyone who actually fights competently and doesn't run away. The main attack that liberated Kuwait (the armored thrust that followed the \\"Hail Mary\\") is dismissed as \\"anti-climactic.\\" <br /> <br />Bias like this is more useful (in my mind) when the book is immediate. The soldiers (or Marines) involved in the actual combat tell you what happened when they were fighting, what they felt and thought and saw and smelled and feared. As time passes, it becomes less and less instructive, because objective analysis becomes more realistic and reasonable. This book reads as if it were written the week after the battles, or perhaps months later.  That makes it valuable, but of course we still have to wait for something that tells us both sides of the battle. It's interesting to compare it, by the way, with the Army's official history, which barely mentions the Marine participation the war, if I remember correctly.	2004-11-07
471946:US	52850806	R2AW05DTSIPHNW	0399152288	597045553	R is for Ricochet (A Kinsey Millhone Novel)	Books	2	8	8	N	N	R is for...What?	This is one of the bigger dissappointments I've had in recent years. Usually Sue Grafton's Kinsey Millhone novels are worthwhile, interesting, intelligently-contrived mysteries with a point and a purpose, and characters that are interesting and believable. Unfortunately, in this installment, most of the characters aren't believable at all, and some of the action seems so contrived it's frankly silly. <br /> <br />The book begins with Kinsey getting hired to babysit a woman who's getting out of prison. Her father's wealthy, but she apparently saw the need to embezzle money from the place she worked. My first problem was that no one who investigated the case originally saw the contradiction of a rich man's daughter whose father doted on her (he bought her a BMW for her birthday) embezzling money she didn't need and probably could have gotten from dad. The mystery plot of the book careens from one improbability to the next, so that when Kinsey decides *not* to carry her gun when going to confront the bad guy at the end, I just was laughing at the improbability of the whole thing. There's a pair of subplots, one with Kinsey having a romance with a cop, another with her landlord having a romance with a lady he met on a cruise, and they are fun, but the main plot's silly. <br /> <br />So this is (I think) the worst book in the series for a while. I was really disappointed.	2004-10-31
475344:US	52850806	RQKN2RIOW1CO6	0553802577	767640279	The Last Stand of the Tin Can Sailors: The Extraordinary World War II Story of the U.S. Navy's Finest Hour	Books	5	10	11	N	N	One of the best World War II books in some time	In the last months of World War II, when the naval portion of the conflict in the Pacific was going very well for the United States Navy, the Japanese Navy contrived to attack one of American Navy's carrier groups with the one portion of the Japanese Navy which, though weakened, was still able to inflict some serious damage: their surface ships. <br />  <br />The target was one of three groups of small carriers that were intended primarily to provide anti-submarine and ground attack support for the invasion fleet and the troops that were carried on the ships. These three groups were codenamed Taffy One, Two, and Three. It was Taffy Three that was closest to the Japanese fleet, and consequently received the brunt of the Japanese attack. <br /> <br />Since the American carriers were small and intended for rear area service, their escort was provided by ships that were primarily intended to fight submarines: three destroyers and four destroyer escorts, the latter even smaller than the former. The Japanese, in contrast, deployed four battleships, eight heavy cruisers, two light cruisers, and almost a dozen destroyers. This confrontation should have resulted in the destruction of the American fleet, but things didn't go just exactly the way they should have. Instead, the American escorts improbably counterattacked, and the carriers launched all of their remaining planes and counterattacked the Japanese fleet. Even more improbably, the American fleet survived, and mostly escaped to fight another day. <br /> <br />James Hornfischer does an excellent job of recounting the battle off Samar, though his account is almost completely from the American side. He concentrates especially on the three destroyers who made their near-suicidal attack (two of them were sunk, the third damaged) on the Japanese fleet, and on the one destroyer escort (USS Samuel B. Roberts) that participated in their attack and was sunk as a result. The account of the battle itself occupies the middle halfof the text, and is frankly very well-written and suspenseful. <br /> <br />The author also does a decent job of placing the battle in context, avoiding the cultural-relativist silliness of \\"Flyboys\\" and by contrast spending a good deal of time discussing the veterans groups that contain the survivors of these vessels. The book does a very good job of recounting everything involved in the battle, using a series of intentionally drawn maps and some good illustrations, including the one that shows a Japanese cruiser shooting at the carrier USS Gambier Bay. <br /> <br />This is a very good book, marred very slightly by some technical and historical errors. I don't have any qualifications to discuss most of the technical errors (I wouldn't know one steam engine from another) but I did catch a few of the historical ones. For instance, the author repeats the statement that the Gambier Bay was the first aircraft carrier sunk by surface gunfire, when of course HMS Glorious was sunk by the Scharnhorst and Gneisnau off Norway in 1940. Frankly, small errors like that don't detract from the narrative that much, though you have to wonder why they didn't have a fact-checker read the manuscript before publication to catch such things. <br /> <br />That being said, this is one of the best accounts of a World War II surface battle that I've read in a long while, and I would heartily recommend it. <br />	2004-10-27
476190:US	52850806	RA7W92BVQP4EN	1854094319	510430630	Hitler's Enforcers: Leaders of the German War Machine 1933-1945	Books	2	5	9	N	N	A wonderful group bio of fifteen model Nazi Soldiers	This book is a compilation of short biographical pieces written about various soldiers who fought for Nazi Germany. They range from Field Marshals (Rommel and Model) all the way down to relatively junior officers like Witzig (leader of the attack on Eban Emael) and Wittman (the Tiger ace). The author, frankly, has nothing new to add on the more senior officers, but on some of the junior ones he provides some useful information. Of the fifteen, twelve were in the Wehrmacht, three in the SS. <br /> <br />James Lucas is one of the more difficult historians to read and get good information from. He writes exclusively about the German army in the Second World War, and he often covers events or circumstances that are dealt with elsewhere only briefly. However, Lucas has such a skewed view of things, with the brave steely-eyed Nazis fighting off hordes of subhuman Asiatic Communists, that you wonder how the man thinks the Germans managed to lose the war. In this volume, we get a piece on Rommel that insists (without proof) that he wasn't involved in the Hitler bomb plot, ignores Manstein's more inflammatory racist rhetoric and insists he was innocent of the war crimes he was convicted of after the war, and basically ignores the Holocaust and everything bad associated with Nazi Germany. The author is happy to repeat anything bad (no matter how unsubstantiated) about any of Germany's enemies in the war, though. Most *German* authors are less one-sided that Mr. Lucas. So what recommendation I give this book comes with a very large proviso: be aware of the author's bias. <br /> <br />One strange note. This is the second book I've come across recently that has a good opinion of Sepp Dietrich as a panzer general. Most historical works follow Rundstedt's view that Dietrich would have been alright as a division commander, but was out of his depth above that. The first book I read that put forward this view was John Mosier's weirdly-opionated The Blitzkrieg Myth. In the acknowledgements for that book the author expresses admiration for James Lucas. Perhaps we know now where Mosier got his high opinion of Dietrich?	2004-10-27
484085:US	52850806	R3NBVRBI47UYHP	0425192725	249229548	"Q" is for Quarry (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery, Book 17)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Better than usual	Sue Grafton's Kinsey Millhone series is a long-running string of private eye novels, among the first with a female protagonist. The author's been doing this for a quarter century now, and she's gotten very good at satisfying her fans, but she's only very rarely truly surprising in her plots or characters. This book is different, not because the plot itself is unusual, but because it's based on reality. <br /> <br />A retired coroner and several police detectives in Santa Barbara presented this case to Grafton several years ago: a young woman was stabbed to death and left in a quarry below a highway. No one ever established her identity, let alone getting any serious leads as to her killer, and there's been no new information in the case in the years since. <br /> <br />In the book, fictional characters take up the quest to at least identify the victim, if not the killer, in this case. Two retired policemen who found the body in the first place, and have been haunted by the case ever since, hire Kinsey Millhone to assist them in looking into things, but of course the two of them fade (health problems intervene) and Kinsey winds up searching for her identity, and eventually that of her killer, by herself. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book, and the realistic aspect of the plot, in that it's based on a real incident, was frankly a hook. I'm curious to know if they have made any progress in the case since the book was written.	2004-10-20
485687:US	52850806	R399AYUTJ71O1J	042519874X	884197365	Stone Cold (A Jesse Stone Novel)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Vintage Parker	Jesse Stone is sort of Spenser's alter ego. He's younger, and Spenser's never had a drinking problem, but other than that, they're pretty much the same character, except Stone's about thirty years younger. Robert B. Parker has been writing detective novels for a very long time now: this is the fourth Stone novel, there are 31 Spenser novels, three featuring his third character, Sunny Randall, and nine books that aren't part of a series, some of them non-fiction. That's 47 books, for those who aren't keeping up with the math. Obviously, by now Parker knows what he's doing. He seems able to write one of these every six months or so: he alternates between Randall, Spenser, and Stone with ease, and just floats along. <br /> <br />In this outing, Stone's faced with a real problem. Paradise (the town he's Chief of Police in) has been hit by a rash of killings, and it's soon apparent that they're the work of a serial killer, or killers. Stone has no way of tracking the killer at first, and the killers seem able to strike with impunity and kill whoever they wish. <br /> <br />Meanwhile, there's also a scared girl at the local high school, the victim of a gang rape and some threats afterwards. Stone has to resolve things, and control the situation so that the girl doesn't get hurt. <br /> <br />And of course there's his personal life, which has been a problem for him since the series started with Night Passage. His ex-wife is a manipulative sociopath, interested in only herself and how she can control him, near as I can tell. In this installment, she attempts to manipulate him more than she should, and things take some interesting turns. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book a great deal, and I would recommend it to anyone looking for some light reading.	2004-10-18
486077:US	52850806	R18CGW46N9FVTF	140003180X	405618230	The Kalahari Typing School for Men (No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, Book 4)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Another in the Precious Ramotswe series	This is the fourth book in The No. 1 Ladies Detective Novel series, featuring the only private detective in Gabarone, Botswana, a woman named Precious Ramotswe. Mma (Mrs. in the local language, Motswana) Ramotswe is a \\"traditionally-built\\" woman with an extra helping of common sense who decided to be a private detective, and bought a textbook which taught her how. She's now hired a secretary, Mma Makutsi, who's also traditionally-built, and somewhat disappointed that she doesn't get high-paying work because, though she scored a 97% score on the graduation test at the secretarial college, she's not glamorous-looking. Mma Ramotswe is engaged to Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni, proprietor of Tlokweng Road Speedy Motors, who is a reliable chap if a bit dull.<br /><br />In the first two installments of this series, there were several detective plots in each book. Each of the plots involved someone who had a difficulty and hired Mma Ramotswe to deal with it somehow. In the third book, there was less mystery, and more about the characters and their lives. This fourth book involves more mystery than the third, but there's also a good deal about the characters, as Mma Makutsi decides to teach typing in her spare time (hence the title) and dates one of her students, and Mma Ramotswe has to deal with rebelliousness from her foster children. The mysteries that are in the plot are the usual thing: typical human-interest problems that Mma Ramotswe can deal with by giving some sage advice.<br /><br />This whole series, so far, is wonderful. The books aren't lengthy or over-written, and the characters are refreshingly unsophisticated and sincere. The author has a wonderful ability to convey the citizens of a former British colony in terms of their nature and character. They're simple country people, proud and intelligent, with a simple dignity that's at times faintly ridiculous, and they're unconcerned with other people in other lands of whom they know little. It's a wonderful series, and this book fits right in after the first three.this book fits right in after the first three.	2004-10-18
489949:US	52850806	RI0Y0YH199DKY	0871135620	300044357	Deadman	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Strange and offbeat, part of a series	This is one of the Fang Mulhausen novels, written by Jon A. Jackson. Jackson's an unusual writer (how many authors pose in the back flyleaf with an automatic weapon?) and his style takes some getting used to. There's also another issue, in that this book is definitely part of a series, and if you haven't read any of the previous books, you'll be somewhat confused by what's going on and miss part of the backstory. <br /> <br />That being said, this installment involves Mulhausen (\\"Mul\\" to his friends) in the search for a former mob enforcer named Joe Service, and his girlfriend, a Mafia princess type. Joe has turned up shot in the head in Montana, but since Mul hasn't got enough evidence that he has actually committed a crime (a typical situation with Service) he instead is interested in who shot him, and why. The plot goes from there. <br /> <br />Jackson's writing style, as I said, is somewhat strange. Each chapter is written from the point of view of a particular character. At the start of the book, that character changes from chapter to chapter, and often circumstances and events are related at least partially from several different perspectives. The effect is rather like the TV series of a year or so ago called Boomtown. Towards the end of the book, things calm down a bit and the narrative focuses on a particular person, but it's still a bit jarring. In my experience, this sort of narrative style works better when the writer's doing a 500 page suspense novel than a mystery novel that's just over half that. <br /> <br />The writing is smooth, though, and the plot hums along. I enjoyed this book, and would recommend it with the understanding that you'd do better if you read all of the books in the series prior to this before you got to it.	2004-10-14
491330:US	52850806	RKXGJQR50GAUP	0688140467	16467825	The Plan	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A TV Movie disguised as a Novel	Stephen J. Cannell is famous as one of the last independant TV producers, though I think he's about done being independant now. As a result, he's apparently turned to writing novels, the present work being the first of them. The Plan chronicles the supposed plot by the Mafia to \\"buy\\" themselves a president. <br /> <br />The main bad guy is the son of a mobster named Mickey Alo. Back in the 70s, our villain and his father meet with another mobster, and all three plot to buy a TV network with the intention of eventually running a tame senator for president. The eventual goal is to emasculate the FBI and get the RICO legislation declared unconstitutional. <br /> <br />It's time for our villain to launch his tame candidate on the trail to the White House, and as part of his campaign, the mobster hires his old prep school roommate, Ryan Bolt, to make the campaign biography documentary. The room mate is improbably ethical and has survival instincts worthy of a deep-cover spy or something on that level. He allies himself with your typical assemblage of people in this sort of story: a broken-down investigative reporter, a washed-up FBI agent, and of course the traitorous sister of the mobster bad guy. <br /> <br />The result is what you might say is the typical TV-Movie plot, written as a Novel. It's alright, if a bit over-written, and it certainly moves along briskly. There's a sort of insubstantial quality to it, as if you know while you're reading it that you're not going to remember a bit of this in several weeks. That being said, if you're looking for something to read on the plane or while lounging on the beach, this may be just the ticket.	2004-10-13
491510:US	52850806	R3ACJR9VQCB59V	0304350559	263281422	Last Stand! Famous Battles Against the Odds (Cassell Military Classics)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Britain's Last Stand (with a little help from others)	This is one of these compilation books that have been springing up lately, containing a collection of stories recounting various battles through history. This one purports to study what the author calls \\"last stands\\" where the one side or the other was pushed to the wall, and either defeated or so beaten down it was a miracle they survived. While the writing is alright, and the author seems to be reasonably skilled with the facts, there's no analysis or interpretation of what happened, really. Instead it's the thrilling you-are-there stuff that tells you what happened, but does almost nothing to explain why things happened the way they did. <br /> <br />Perrett takes a baker's dozen battles and recounts each of them in about 15 or so pages each. About half of them involve the British army, which the author, being British himself, as much as tells you is the best in the world. Given the length of the individual essays on the battles, there's little space for in depth analysis or discussions of the decisions made in the fighting. Then again, some of the battles (notably Camerone) were so small that such analysis is probably fruitless anyway. The author, then, makes a brief attempt in the \\"Conclusions\\" section, after the text, but only says that leadership, training, and morale are important in units if they're to perform like this. I could have told him that... <br /> <br />There's some good material here, and I don't want to be too negative. If you're looking for story-telling about military history, and you don't need or want the analytical part of things, this is probably a good book for you. Unfortunately, I want more from my military history these days than stories.	2004-10-13
491711:US	52850806	R3AI9DKEG35BZ	0380772124	206810581	To the Last Cartridge	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Short Military Stories, the sequel	This is another compilation volume, collected writings of one guy who writes a lot of military history. Several of the pieces in this book are reprints of articles that originally appeared in various magazines. Unlike many other compilation volumes, there's no attempt at any criteria here, other than soldiers in desparate circumstances. So you get stories from centuries ago, and from Viet Nam, and you get stories a couple of paragraphs long, and some 20+ pages long. Some spend a lot of time on analysis of a situation, others none. Some of the actions involved here are large, others very small. There's no attempt at organization beyond chronological order. <br /> <br />There isn't any attempt at an overall analysis, some lesson the author learned while studying these battles, some truth he might have learned. While the writing's decent, the stories are all over the map, and the last half of the book seems devoted almost exclusively to the French Foreign Legion, which the author apparently admires beyond all other foreign soldiers. There's only one story from the era of the U.S. in Viet Nam, but there are several from the French involvement there. <br /> <br />Again, I don't want to be too critical. If all you're looking for is stories of battles, then this may be the book for you. If, on the other hand, you want to know why things came out the way they did, you'll have to look elsewhere.	2004-10-13
496658:US	52850806	R3QB7M86YOMZUJ	0517304996	352579083	The Tailor of Panama	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Groupthink: the Novel	This is one of the more intriguing spy novels in recent memory, and a rather good satire in addition. John Le Carre is a very talented writer who has his weaknesses (more about them below) but also has his strengths, and they frankly are legion, and outweigh anything else. This isn't Le Carre's best novel (The Little Drummer Girl? Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy?) but it's not his worst either. It's a very interesting book. <br /> <br />At its heart is Harry Pendel, the Tailor of the title, who's half-blackmailed half-bribed into spying for Britain. Pendel's a voluntary exile from a rather sordid lower-class existence in Britain, who's remade himself (and promoted himself socially) in the exile and wanna-be Brit community of Panama. He lies to everyone about his background, so when he becomes a British spy, it should come as no surprise that he immediately begins to fabricate information there, too. <br /> <br />Pendel's controller is Andy Osnard, a shady character with hidden agendas of his own, and behind him there's a rogue's gallery of crooked embassy officials, government functionaries, American soldiers, espionage service supervisors, and even a Murdoch-like media baron who tries to create the news in order to better report it ala William Randolf Hearst. While most of the characters are well-drawn, Pendel's wife sounds suspiciously British for an American. In one scene she refers to the children eating \\"crisps\\" which I believe is Brit for potato chips...though I'm not sure. No American would talk like that. <br /> <br />This all leads to several very funny passages where the heads of two governments decide to invade a country on the basis of the fabrications of this silly tailor who's trying to recoup his wife's inheritance, which he lost in a bad investment. The book winds up reading like the book version of the movie It's a Mad Mad Mad World, with everyone trying to steal more than their fair share of the pie. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book a great deal. JohnLe Carre doesn't do satire much, or comedy (though some of the Smiley stuff was fun) and so this was a welcome change of pace. It's an interesting book, and I would recommend it to most anyone.	2004-10-08
507435:US	52850806	R1QNGKJD2M0S5K	0375508589	62929266	Shadow Divers: The True Adventure of Two Americans Who Risked Everything to Solve One of the Last Mysteries of World War II	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent	In 1991, a pair of group of deep sea scuba divers found a U-boat on the floor of the Atlantic Ocean, 60 miles off the coast of New Jersey. Research in records on both sides of the Atlantic, in the United States and Europe, discovered no evidence that a U-boat was sunk in that area of the Atlantic. The nearest incidents that might have led to the sinking of a U-boat took place at least a hundred miles away. <br /> <br />Divers continued to explore the wreck, and three were killed while diving on it. Artifacts were brought up, and they confirmed that the wreck was a U-boat, even dated the wreck to the latter part of the war. The exact identity of the boat and its crew remained a mystery, however, and so the quest to find out which boat this was continued. <br /> <br />Eventually, the U-boat was identified and the mystery solved. This book concentrates on the narrative of the divers, and their quest to identify the wreck and its passengers. The two main divers-- John Chatterton and Richie Kohler-- are depicted in their full glory, men obsessed with diving on wrecks more than 200 feet below the ocean. A host of other people, including the dive boat captain, Bill Nagle, are well-depicted and interesting. The dangers of deep-sea diving, and the history of U-boats in World War II, is well-written. Better than that, in popular books like this which deal with World War II, I usually find a mistake or two that slip through the cracks. This book is virtually flawless, and I was highly impressed with both the writing style and content. <br /> <br />I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the least in the subject of U-boats or deepsea diving, or anything like that. It's well-written, interesting, and the judgments are judicious and intelligent. Frankly, this is one of the best books on the Second World War that I've read in recent years.	2004-09-28
509817:US	52850806	R31E86730H7FPC	0395569273	4616686	The Black Sea	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Terrorists and Pirates	This is a very unusual book. It has nothing to do with the actual Black Sea, instead centering on a ship of that name that has been hijacked in the sea just to the south of Singapore, in the Far East. The hijackers are the Malayan version of Muslim extremist terrorists, killing the passengers one at a time until their demands are met. <br /> <br />The book is written in the usual multiple shifting points of view style that suspense novels like this usually use, and it's very well done. Among the main characters are the captain of a nearby American warship and several other officers on board, an American woman who's a university professor specializing in the local Malayan culture and language, an ethnic Chinese character whose position is shadowy, and of course the terrorists themselves. All are well-drawn and interesting, and as far as I was concerned there weren't any twists in the plot that were unlikely or improbable. <br /> <br />Frankly, this is a near flawless suspense novel, and I would recommend it to anyone interested in this sort of thing. One slight misgiving: it is somewhat dated, having been written in the early 90s. However, given the rise of the current crop of extremists in the Mid East, even that isn't that significant.	2004-09-26
512828:US	52850806	RDYSDJCRR207J	0446602388	730526077	14 Peck Slip	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Atmosphere and characters, not much plot	This is another one of those New York City Cop-turned novelist books that seems to emerge every year. The author apparently did 20 years in the NYPD, and then took a series of creative writing courses, and now has turned himself into a writer. This first book introduces a pair of detectives Joe \\"the Great\\" Gregory, and Anthony Ryan, the narrator. The two are Irish (though Ryan's half-Italian) and Gregory is famous for leaps of faith in his investigations. <br /> <br />In the opening scene the two detectives are watching the docks, and someone dumps a barrel into the river. The cops are suspicious that it might contain something other than trash, especially since the barrel was thrown into the water by a trio of characters who looks suspiciously like mobsters. When they have the divers explore the bottom of the river, another barrel is fished up, instead of the one they saw dumped, but this one contains the corpse of a NYPD detective who was supposedly corrupt, and dissappeared on the eve of his testimony on corruption, in which he was supposedly going to name names. Everyone always assumed he had run; now it appears he was killed instead. The plot proceeds from there, fairly regularly... <br /> <br />The novel has the feel of something that had been worked on for a long time. It was published in 1994, but is set in 1982, and since the victim was killed a decade before that, it almost has the feel of a nostalgia or even historical novel. There are no cell phones, no faxes, and the computer technology is primitive at best. The cops are tough-talking and not above planting a bit of evidence to convince a witness to talk. The women in the book are dealt with (by the cops, not the author) in a somewhat sexist fashion, and Gregory's attitude towards marriage is definitely of the Neanderthal variety. <br /> <br />I liked this book, and will recommend it. I will say that it's a bit predictable and has somewhat of a flat ending, but the plot in something like this is secondary to the characters and the atmosphere, and frankly both are very convincing and intriguing.	2004-09-23
514308:US	52850806	R2O7QKNLTNZ59R	0425183386	121745400	No End Save Victory: Perspectives on World War II	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Collection of articles from MHQ on WW2	This is a collection of articles by various mostly eminent historians covering most of the critical events of World War II. It includes articles by Caleb Carr (the novelist who wrote The Alienist), William Manchester (biographer of Churchill and MacArthur), Antony Beevor (author of books on Stalingrad and Berlin), and Theodore F. Cook (specialist in Japan during WW2). The articles consist of everything from studies of battles to biographies of the major combatants. <br /> <br />This book is better a bit than Cowley's volume on the Civil War. He does ruin some of the articles by cribbing his introductions from the actual articles that he's introducing. The authors themselves, however, are just about as stellar as they can get in the current round of historians, including Manchester, who's now retired, and Carr, who's stopped writing military history in favor of novels. The other misgiving I have is that this isn't a complete history of the war. The reader must have a reasonable knowledge of the war before s/he begins reading the book, to understand all the nuances and points that are made by the various authors. <br /> <br />I liked this collection, and I would recommend it to anyone interested in military history or World War II.	2004-09-21
514844:US	52850806	R1HEHRQ38B5Q0	0312076282	871944245	The Anatomy of Error: Ancient Military Disasters and Their Lessons for Modern Strategists	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Excellent analysis of Ancient Military Failures	This is one of those books that's obscure, and shouldn't be. The authors are a pair of history professors, who in this book analyze the course of Ancient Military History over the course of a century or so, and discuss why, in eight separate instances, one side or the other in a conflict failed to achieve their objectives, often with catastrophic results. These analyses are frankly very interesting, even if (as was the case with me) you don't know that much about Ancient Military History in the first place. <br /> <br />The authors do a good job of providing a context for each conflict and battle or campaign that resulted in the disaster, and they spend a good deal of time discussing things like what the personalities knew at the time and what they guessed, and what they intended. This leads to much fruitful discussion of the campaigns, each of which seems to be chosen to illustrate the point the authors are trying to make. For instance, the chapter on Hannibal essentially points out that the great general won many battles, but had little idea how to conclude a war, and suffered as a result. There are other similar discussions of other episodes from the period, from Alexander the Great to the Roman emporer Julian about six hundred years later. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book a great deal. I understand that Ancient Military History isn't that popular a subject, and that this makes this book less than totally appealling, but frankly there's a great deal to be learned here, and I would recommend this book highly to anyone wishing to study strategy, especially in the sense of formulating and implementing it.	2004-09-21
515496:US	52850806	R3ETN6SSTUUPAI	0891414800	219720156	Fenwick Travers and the Forbidden Kingdom: An Entertainment	Books	2	0	2	N	N	The Unfunny American Flashman	These books (this one, plus one on the Panama Canal, and another that apparently deals with the Boxer Rebellion) are an attempt to translate the adventures of a character not unlike Harry Flashman into an American setting. The author does reasonably well with historical details, but the other things that Flashman does are remarkably absent, compared with the original. Flashman is funny, and the historical detail is impeccable. Travers isn't funny, and while there is reasonably good historical detail, there's no explanation of what exactly is fact and what isn't. George MacDonald Fraser, the author of the Flashman chronicles, provides footnotes which clarify for you which characters are historical, and give you brief details of their lives and accomplishments. Saunders doesn't bother. <br /> <br />One other weird detail is that Flashman is relentlessly a coward. He never, ever fights if he can avoid it, and when he can't he cowers and whines like a baby. Fraser is a talented enough author to make these incidents believable, but to also make it so that Flashy comes out of these events with a good reputation anyway. Saunders can't (or won't) contrive circumstances like Fraser does: Travers whines and grovels, and then kills half of the other characters in the book. He winds up chopping several Philipine warriors to death in this book, for instance. It's a bit much. <br /> <br />For the good historical detail he does provide (accounts of various of the incidents in the Phillipine insurgency of about a century ago) the author gets his extra star above the first one, but other than that there's not much here, and I wouldn't recommend this book.	2004-09-20
516726:US	52850806	R19478BDNGS9EF	0688080936	378368955	Ottoman Centuries	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Long but superficial	The Ottomans were an important force in Asian and World affairs for six centuries, from 1300 to the end of World War I. This book attempts to take a comprehensive look at their empire, the political forces that drove it, personalities that ran it, and causes of its collapse. <br /> <br />The book *is* reasonably well-written, if the British upper-class writing style is your preference. It's illustrated (my edition, anyway) profusely throughout, with pictures of the various personalities involved and the places that they visited or lived. Though interesting, the book does have several flaws. <br /> <br />The first is an interesting one, and one that I don't believe would occur if the book were written today. This is a book about the Ottoman Empire, where almost everyone spoke Turkish, and there's not one book in that language in the bibliography. This leads me to wonder how much of the language the author spoke, even though he was writing a history of the Empire. Back in the day British historians could get away with this (to them, all of the important sources would be in English, or perhaps French, anyway) but of course these days things would be different. And of course the author does have a rather Western point of view, though he is at times sensitive enough to attempt objectivity. <br /> <br />This is a rather dated book---about 30 years old. There is, no doubt, a newer, more comprehensive book out there on the Ottoman Turks, and if there isn't, there will be soon. On the other hand, if you run across this in a used bookstore or somewhere, it's not a bad place to start.	2004-09-19
517792:US	52850806	R2MH89CGEPY45H	0060177330	325758161	Secret Missions	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Fun, if somewhat predictable	I didn't make it (yet) to either of Michael Gannon's two non-fiction efforts covering the U-boat war in the Atlantic and America's part in it. That makes this the first book by him that I've read. It's a novel, involving U-boats and spies landed in Florida, and the people in the Sunshine State who they interact with. <br /> <br />The main characters are a spy who's landed in Florida to spy on airfields and U.S. airplanes, a priest who becomes entangled in the spy's mission, and several people in Florida, notably a priest and a female aviator. The story follows each of these characters, and others, in turn, as they attempt to achieve their missions. The twist is that the only person who knows exactly what's going on and is trying to stop it is the priest, who of course can't reveal what he knows. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book reasonably, and frankly am impressed with the author's skill with the writing more than with the plot. There's a predictability to what occurs in the book itsel that's regrettable, and the author isn't able to counteract it. The conclusion of the book involves a coincidence that stretches the imagination, and was predictable itself. Other than those things, it's a good book and I enjoyed it. <br />	2004-09-18
521394:US	52850806	R1D5OTBUC6PI03	0891414819	699253031	Fenwick Travers and the Panama Canal: An Entertainment	Books	2	1	4	N	N	A Pale imitation of Flashman	This book, and its two predecessors, are billed as an American version of the Flashman series by George MacDonald Fraser. It's useful, therefore, to remember what the Flashman series involves. The stories revolve around a revered British soldier, a war hero and general who's really a coward, a thief, and a womanizer. The author has a wonderful voice for the main character, and he wanders through Victorian era military history, meeting various soldiers and diplomats, and having a variety of adventures, during which he is constantly thwarted in his efforts to steal a fortune or get next to a pretty girl. There are footnotes through each book, with the author noting historical characters and telling you about them, who they were and what they did in their life and so forth. And they're invariably funny. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, beyond the silly name and the historical context, Fenwick Travers bears little resemblance to Harry Flashman. This book is told a voice that sounds very modern and neutral, for the most part. There's no slang particular to the era, no references to figures or events of the time, nothing to lend it any authenticity whatsoever that I could see. Instead he just narrates the story as if he were a novelist. Second, instead of Harry's cowardice, Fenny gets rather hot under the collar at times, and is presented as someone you don't want to mess with when he gets his blood up. This makes the character not very unique, though of course I can see why he wouldn't want to imitate Fraser that closely. Instead, he makes the character morally flexible, but of course Flashy's that too, so it's not that interesting. Third, the book isn't really funny at all, it's just a series of adventures. And fourth, while there are recognizable historical figures in this book (Teddy Roosevelt, Elihu Root, John Hay, etc.) there are a number of minor characters that might be historical or not. There are, however, no footnotes or other notations to tell you which of these characters are real and which are inventions of the author's not-very-fertile mind. <br /> <br />The result is a rather tepid historical mishmash that frankly I didn't find interesting at all, for the most part. It reads reasonably well and quickly, but frankly the content is ridiculous and uninteresting.	2004-09-15
525396:US	52850806	R1S45PDEGX5CSG	0306809737	671948887	Civil War Generalship: The Art Of Command	Books	5	8	9	N	N	For specialists only, but wonderful	This is not your usual Civil War History book. W.J. Wood is uninterested, here, in discussing the course of the Civil War itself, or its battles and capaigns. Instead, Wood wants to examine how Generals controlled their armies, or didn't, and the decision-making process that led to the battles came out. <br /> <br />The result is a book where the author studies three battles from the Civil War: Cedar Mountain in 1862, Chickamauga in 1863, and Nashville in 1864. The author spends much of his time laying out the military situation that confronted the opposing generals, and then briefly recounts the course of the battle, the decisions made, and the outcomes. The three battles involved some interesting personalities in command of the armies, and so the results are rather interesting, also. <br /> <br />Cedar Mountain involved Stonewall Jackson and Nathaniel Banks. The interesting thing here is that Banks doesn't come out as badly as you might imagine, nor Jackson as favorably. Chickamauga saw Braxton Bragg and William Rosecrans face off: both were unsuited for high command at some level, and are duly criticized. Nashville of course was the last hurrah of John Bell Hood, opposite the rocklike George Thomas. This one's not unexpected: Thomas comes out brilliant, while Hood turns out to be an idiot. <br /> <br />All three of these battles are interesting, and Wood advocates an analytical approach that favors what I call ruthless pragmatism. This works well, and I enjoyed the book, finding it worthwhile and the observations inside to be very interesting.	2004-09-11
525520:US	52850806	RBLTPVS0EP4PS	0786707151	199288627	Military Intelligence Blunders	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fascinating, and detailed	Apparently Colonel John Hughes-Wilson was in British Military Intelligence for a decade, and made a study of the profession and practice while he was there. When he left, he set out to write a book on the history of the art, using various historical examples to show why things work out the way they do, and why certain practices should be followed or avoided. <br /> <br />The book follows a simple format. The first chapter is an introduction to the subject, explaining the objective of Military Intelligence and the means of obtaining, evaluating, and disseminating the information involved. The rest of the chapters (save a short conclusion) discuss individual events from the past sixty years where an army or nation was surprised or somehow failed by intelligence. There's a brief discussion of the overall course of the battle and the parameters of what the author wishes to discuss, and then a critical analysis of the intelligence that was available, how it was handled, and what was made of it by the end-users. Usually, of course, the end-user ignored or misused the intelligence, and the result was a disaster. <br /> <br />The one minor quibble I had with the book was the selection of the various anecdotes involved. I felt that a couple were badly selected (notably the one on Malaya in 1942) mostly because the battles involved were British, and of course the author is a Brit. That having been noted, it doesn't detract much from the overall impact of the book, and there actually is some worthwhile information even in that chapter. I would have preferred, however, if he'd used something like the Japanese failure at the Battle of Midway, where their signal intelligence basically lost them the battle. <br /> <br />That all being said, this is a very worthwhile and intelligent book, and I would recommend it to anyone interested in the subject.	2004-09-11
525588:US	52850806	R3EAC9BS1E5ZOO	0312113609	907005316	Ulysses: A Biographical Novel of U.S. Grant	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Uneven and not very interesting	This is one of those books that's frustrating, because there's a good book in here trying to get out, but it's trapped and can't escape. Robert Skimin tries to get it out, but he fails, and the result is a very uneven and uninteresting effort that's mostly boring, and in addition there are parts where you wonder about the historicity. <br /> <br />The author credits William S. McFeely's biography of U.S. Grant for illuminating the subject's life, so you'd expect the book to follow McFeely closely, and to a great extent it does. This creates several problems for me. First, since McFeely's book was so readable, why read something like this in addition? You get McFeely's information, somewhat compressed, with some lame love scenes and some supposed insight into Grant's thoughts at various times. Most of this has to be supposition, so its value is dubious at best. In addition, there are several scenes where the actual incident is relatively well-known, and Skimin recounts it in a fashion that bears no resemblance to what we know of reality. The example that stuck out for me was his version of Grant meeting Lee in Mexico, which has no bearing on the actual event. <br /> <br />As a result, I can't recommend this book. It's at times vaguely interesting, but I didn't enjoy it that much, and the author does only a mediocre job with his history.	2004-09-11
531371:US	52850806	R1A5L9BDBEG5PE	0446603023	763479497	Till the Butchers Cut Him Down	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good, if not startling or anything	Marcia Muller has the distinction of being the first woman to successfully write a private eye series where the protagonist was female. The big wave of these books were, of course, prompted by Sara Paretsky and Sue Grafton, however. The difference between Muller's books and that of the other two women is difficult to discern, but I believe I have the answer. Paretsky and Grafton write books where there's a private eye who's female, while Muller writes about a woman who's a private eye. This is a subtle distinction: there's no doubt that all three series have a lot in common. For whatever the reason, however, Muller's stuff reads (to me anyway) more like a romance novel with a mystery plot than an actual mystery. Having said that, Till the Butchers Cut Him Down isn't a bad addition to her series at all. <br /> <br />Sharon McCone has struck out on her own, leaving the legal cooperative that employed her in the previous books in the series, and decided to become a real private eye, complete with office and assistant. Her first case involves an old friend, \\"Suitcase\\" Gordon, who used to deal in illicit things which he always carried in a suitcase, hence the nickname. Suitcase is now a successful businessman, but not a very popular one, and someone's apparently taken it into their heads to kill him, destroy his business, or both. He comes to Sharon to see if she can stop them, and the book goes from there. <br /> <br />Muller's prose is easy to read and workmanlike. There's nothing really poetic here, and the characters are only semi-well-defined, but the plot is reasonable and she knows how to keep the action moving. I would recommend this book to anyone wanting to read a decent mystery, with an afternoon at the beach to kill.	2004-09-06
534179:US	52850806	R6PYC9VSFH37Q	0345430573	151155247	A Certain Justice (Adam Dalgliesh Mysteries)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Like most James books, more novel than mystery	I believe P.D. James is misunderstood by most reviewers and readers. She's not really a mystery novelist, she's a novelist who happens to write mysteries. The current book, A Certain Justice, certainly highlights this circumstance, because the characters are more interesting than the plot, and by the end of the book my reaction, anyway, was indifference towards the solution. I give the book high marks in spite of that because the characters themselves are interesting, and it's their interplay that the book revolves around. <br /> <br />The story revolves around Venetia Aldridge. She's a barrister (a British lawyer who works in courtrooms: those who don't are called solicitors) who specializes in getting criminals off when their crimes would otherwise dictate convictions. She also boasts an abrasive personality, to the point that she has no close friends, and even her lover is somewhat distant and unsure of her. No one really likes her, she abuses her position when she can get away with it, and she has a wonderful ability to antagonize people. And then she gets killed, and of course everyone's a suspect. <br /> <br />Though this is a strangely constructed mystery novel (the killing takes place about 75 pages into the 350+ page book) it's still interesting to see how the detectives go about their job, led by the redoubtable and seemingly unflappable Adam Dalgliesh. The other characters are interesting, though several aren't explored as intimately as you might like. In some ways I think when James wrote her longer books, and explored everyone involved in the crime in detail, she was actually a bit better, but I can see how others would think this had slowed the book down. Regardless, this is a good novel, and is recommended on that level, though not really as a mystery.	2004-09-03
540592:US	52850806	RQW4XFEOKOTM1	0345427637	327814320	The Angel of Darkness	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Worthy Sequel to the Alienist	Caleb Carr's book the Alienist was one of the best books of the nineties, a wonderfully evocative detective novel that took place in 1890's New York. The premise of the book: that a very diverse and unusual group of detectives would be recruited by New York City's new Police Commissioner, Theodore Roosevelt, was a bit of a stretch, but Carr made the characters so interesting it wasn't important that improbability was outweighed by entertainment. <br /> <br />In this second installment, Roosevelt's in Washington, serving as Assistant Secretary of the Navy, and even Dr. Kreizler is somewhat annoyed by Roosevelt's attitude toward the Spanish and the possibility of war. Things are complicated when the wife of a Spanish diplomat approaches one of our band of detectives, the redoutable feminist investigator Sara Howard. Her daughter has been kidnapped, and her husband beat her when she announced that the child must be found. As if this isn't enough, there's an investigation into Dr. Kreizler's hospital, and as a result he's been ordered to stay away from that institution for two months. <br /> <br />The whole story is recounted by Stevie Taggart, and (as others have noted) this leads to the novel's few difficulties. The grammar is somewhat eccentric, and I liked the one criticism that this book is written as if an educated person was trying to sound ignorant. Stevie is an interesting character, though, and his viewpoint is fun, if the voice isn't completely convincing vernacular-wise. <br /> <br />Carr keeps the plot rocketing along, and there are some interesting diversions along the way. In addition to Roosevelt (who makes a cameo late in the book) we meet Elizabeth Cady Stanton and a young Clarence Darrow. We also meet a pair of interesting characters who are fictional: Rupert Picton, a prosecutor, and El Nino, a pygmy from the Philippines who's skilled with poison arrows and interesting throwing knives.  <br /> <br />I enjoyed the book, and I would recommend it to anyone interested in historical books or detective novels. Though it does have a few faults, it's still an entertaining book.	2004-08-28
547703:US	52850806	R1VRY6D55QZBPP	0060925485	508936540	Literary Murder (Michael Ohayon Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Israeli P.D.James	Batya Gur is reportedly Israel's bestselling mystery novelist, and from this book you can see why. The whole structure of the story echoes England's popular detective novelist, P.D.James, rather closely, though there are of course significant differences. <br /> <br />In this outing, Gur's protagonist, Detective Michael Ohayon, must deal with two separate killings that appear to be unrelated. The two victims, however, worked at the same university in the literature department, and so it seems too coincidental that they should die so close together in time. Things are further complicated in that the elder of the vicitims was Israel's best-known living poet, a womanizing character with a rather haughty attitude towards anyone who lacked his talent, who therefor had no shortage of enemies and people who generally loathed him. <br /> <br />Ohayon's an interesting character, and this is a very literary novel. There are no chases, shootouts, or other suspense devices in Gur's novels: instead, there's a mystery, and various interesting characters and atmosphere. In this entry, everything is well-done, though it does drag a bit in the middle (hence only four stars). I would recommend this book to anyone interested in Israel, and of course to mystery fans.	2004-08-22
549133:US	52850806	RNROKNO3LGMS1	0061092576	992961254	The Fighting Man	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not Seymour's best, but interesting	Gerald Seymour has a wonderful way with characters and plots when he deals with the intelligence world and the milieu of special forces, undercover police, and that sort of thing. Almost all of his experience and knowledge is connected to British and Commonwealth individuals, but it's very interesting, and Seymour can bring such characters and atmosphere to life wonderfully. His range, however, is somewhat limited. <br /> <br />In the current book, the main character, Gord Brown, is a British Special Forces soldier who told off an American General at the end of Desert Storm, refused to apologize, and was as a result kicked out of the army. As a result he winds up in the north of Scotland working in a fishing village doing menial tasks, until a trio of Central American Indians show up, looking to hire a mercenary, though of course they have no money. Aimless and without any need for money, he agrees to go with them, and leads them into combat in the jungles of Guatemala. <br /> <br />This book has several difficulties, not the least of which is one of the supporting characters is supposedly an American. This character's dialog, even his ruminations in his head, are all pretty much British. The author gets pretty much everything wrong. <br /> <br />Other than that, Seymour has a wonderful way of writing, so that the inevitability of the plot is not that much of a drawback. You know that Gord and his cohorts aren't going to succeed in their plans without there being some hitches...Seymour never lets his characters succeed without difficulty, and sometimes even kills them off. This book is no exception. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book enough to recommend it, in spite of the American who rang so false. I will say, however, that I've enjoyed pretty much all of Seymour's books, and given that he never sells that well here in the States, my opinion may be somewhat biased.	2004-08-20
554133:US	52850806	R2WJN9LDUPO2FD	0843937246	284472874	Knight's Cross	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Unimaginative, far-fetched, and complex	This is one of those books that winds up being less than the apparent sum of its parts. Aaron Bank (who later helped found the Green Berets) tells us that he was involved, during World War II, in an operation to train German dissidents to wear Nazi uniforms and infiltrate the Austrian Tyrol at the end of the war, with the object of capturing Hitler or some of the top Nazi bigwigs. The operation was cancelled before it ever got off the ground, but in this version of things, it actually happens. <br /> <br />The plot, however, gets so complex and convoluted that it is difficult to follow. You have American soldiers dressed as Germans (and Germans fighting for the Americans, but dressed as Germans), and Russians dressed as Americans, and of course Germans dressed as Germans, Americans as Americans, etc. It's kind of hard to follow which is what is who who's fighting whom, if you see my point. It's also somehow not very suspenseful. <br /> <br />This was an interesting concept, and the writing is reasonably easy to read, but the plot goes nowhere, and the book as a consequence isn't very good.	2004-08-16
554213:US	52850806	R2VEG2U9PL5KKT	0425184587	475316374	With My Face to the Enemy	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Collection of Magazine articles is good, but inconsistent	Essay collections are hard to review. You always wind up with something you liked, something you didn't, and a few things you were surprised by, either pleasantly or otherwise. This book is no exception: while some of the essays in here are worthwhile, some are less wonderful, or otherwise uneven. <br /> <br />One real difficulty is that there's nothing new here at all: every \\"essay\\" in this book was previously published in Military History Quarterly. This means that if you subscribed to that magazine, you'd have all these articles already, and you wouldn't need this book. The only thing you'd get by having this is that Robert Cowley writes an introduction for every piece, but as noted elsewhere, he cribs his intros from the articles themselves, with the result that you almost read a short version of the piece before reading it itself. Some of the articles are also taken from larger books, so that you may wind up reading those twice before getting to this book. And as noted, there are no illustrations, maps, footnotes, index, bibliography, or any of the other stuff that you'd expect in a book like this. It sort of cripples the usefulness of the book, to be honest, for anything other than entertainment. <br /> <br />I've enjoyed stuff Cowley has done elsewhere (the What If? stuff, especially), but he and his publisher need to work on how these books are presented.	2004-08-16
554565:US	52850806	R2WFR76U2K18UE	0517571315	63372327	Lady Left	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Better than some, and funny	Robert Westbrook did three of these left-handed Detective novels back in the early and mid 80s. The premise is a bit weak and convoluted: the main character is a rumpled, smart-mouthed homicide detective named Nicky Rachmaninoff, who plays jazz piano left-handed. He's divorced, and his wife is now a reasonably successful TV star. <br /> <br />In the current entry in the series, Nicky journeys to Nicaragua with his ex-wife and their daughter, riding along on a Hollywood junket with the intent of solving that country's problems by reinstalling a Sandanista government in power, by hook or by crook. The star of the production, of course, is an actress who is modelled somewhat on the Jane Fonda/Barbara Streisand line, with a superficial political stance based on how it will make her look in the papers, and a very unrealistic view of the world and how people in it live. Everything must revolve around her, and her idiot husband, a college professor who makes Hollywood's liberal elite look like Birchers, and who wishes to overthrow Nicaragua's government violently, if need be. <br /> <br />This is a light, fun novel, with Rachmaninoff wandering through the scenes, blundering around not having much luck finding the crime, let alone the criminals, until halfway through the book. It's (as far as I can tell) the last of the left-handed policeman novels, so perhaps the character outran his own premise and has been permanently retired. I would still recommend the book to mystery fans, but only if they were interested in the premise and knew what they were getting themselves into.	2004-08-16
559750:US	52850806	R3HCVTYSLAGUZF	0375505741	867162441	Blood of Victory: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Furst novel with a plot	I had previously read Alan Furst's novel The Polish Officer, and some time ago I think I read Red Gold. The Polish Officer sticks in my mind though: it's a series of events told chronologically, really almost a short story collection rather than a coherent novel. Blood of Victory is different: there actually is a sort of a plot here, as the hero, emigre writer I.A. Serebin, tries to block the flow of Rumananian oil to Nazi Germany. <br /> <br />Furst is best at atmosphere and characters. Serebin is a tired former Communist who's washed up in exile in Paris, editing a literary journal and writing short stories himself. When the Germans invade he figures it's not his business (he's not French, after all) and goes about his life. As the novel opens he's visiting a sick friend in Istanbul, planning to return to Paris afterwards. <br /> <br />The characters are well-drawn, and the atmosphere is wonderful, full of sights, smells, and circumstances of 1940s Europe. It's the best part of the book, and well-worth the effort. I enjoyed this book over-all, and would recommend it	2004-08-10
562153:US	52850806	R1C25KK2W4L53U	0425195953	469848429	Winterkill (A Joe Pickett Novel)	Books	4	30	32	N	N	Joe Pickett gets a sidekick, maybe	This is the third book in the Joe Pickett series, and unconventional is the rule in each of the books. The author manages to make a character with a wife and kids into something of an action hero, complete with gun, pickup truck, and dog, and a series of enemies that attempt everything from annoyance to murder to thwart him. <br /> <br />In the current book, Pickett has a murder on his hands. In this case the murder is complicated by the fact that the victim was a local Federal wildlife officer who just went nuts and killed a whole flock of elk. Pickett arrested him, but he escaped, only to be brutally and strangely killed. <br /> <br />Complicating things are two factors. First, the local authorities have been preempted by a Federal investigator who has taken charge of everything. She's convinced that there's a conspiracy of right-wing nutcases, survivalists who want to kill Federal agents, and of course she's going to hunt them down, damn the consequences. One of her principle suspects is a local mountain man type who has almost no interaction with the rest of society, and raises falcons at his house. That guy turns out to be more than everyone bargained for. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book a great deal, and would recommend it to anyone who likes the wilderness or detective stories. One proviso: the author isn't a conservative politically (one of his previous books involves the Endangered Species list) but this book deals with the Federal government and bureaucrats rather harshly. Just a warning.	2004-08-08
562987:US	52850806	R3SJSBLNGX2PBE	0786865563	85686265	Days of Infamy: Military Blunders of the 20th Century	Books	1	6	6	N	N	Idiotic Infamy	This is one of the worst books I've ever read on military history. You have to wonder how someone can get a book like this published. The author is a journalist, but even that is usually not a disqualifying factor with a book on military history, or any sort of history for that matter. Journalists, after all, deal in fact also.<br /><br />In this case, however, the book is filled with factual errors, and you get the idea that the author sometimes missed the point of a battle or campaign that he was recounting to you. Given that he's so often mistaken about what happened, it's not much of a surprise that his interpretations are going to be poor also.<br /><br />All of this leads to my final conclusion. I would avoid this book at all costs. I don't get rid of any book that's non-fiction, usually, but this one's going to the used bookstore. I expect them to reject it, and I'll probably wind up giving it to the library, who will overprice it in their book sale at $1.00.	2004-08-07
563755:US	52850806	RDAQ0XFMC9WDP	0891414452	323753665	Hard Road to Gettysburg: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Hard Road to Probability	This book starts out with one of those improbable things upon which more than one romance novel has hinged: a mother splits twins at birth, and they wind up on opposite sides of the Civil War. This, however improbable it may seem, is one of the more believable events that take place in this book. Mistaken identity, imposters, infiltration of the enemy army, and general skullduggery are all plot twists as the Civil War churns on. <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book a great deal, and only noticed a couple of minor inaccuracies in its depiction of the Civil War. However, the implausibility of the plot was a major detraction, and overall I only partially enjoyed the book.	2004-08-06
565806:US	52850806	R2F02G06MHZ791	0060009764	571997989	The Blitzkrieg Myth: How Hitler and the Allies Misread the Strategic Realities of World War II	Books	1	30	37	N	N	Myth vs. Reality	Every few years a book comes along which turns conventional history on its head, reinterprets things, and generally shakes up thinking on a particular aspect of history, military or otherwise. The Blitzkrieg Myth is a very concious effort to do just that, intending to prove that blitzkriegs didn't work, either when the Germans implemented them against their enemies early in the war, or later when they were the victims of them. <br />  <br /> The author approaches this theory in an unusual, and not very productive way. Instead of studying each of the campaigns in Europe in World War II that involved armored warfare, he essentially ignores North Africa, Italy, and the war in Russian, and concentrates for the most part on the campaigns in France in 1940 and 1944. This leads to the completely weird phenomenon of the author attempting to prove that both the French collapse in 1940 and the German one four years later weren't the results of mechanized assaults and encirclements by their opponents. He even, at several points in the text, labels both attacks &quot;failures.&quot; This is clearly strange.  <br />  <br /> One major difficulty I had with the book was the author's knowledge of the campaigns and battles, and his command of the issues involved. The text contradicts itself regularly, and it cites facts not available elsewhere (i.e. they're wrong) continuously. He even repeats the statistics on the civilian dead in the bombing of Dresden that Frederick Taylor just proved were inflated by Josef Goebbels, in his book on Dresden. When he's not mangling actual facts, Mosier puts forward some truly odd opinions, often without comment. Thus Sepp Dietrich turns out to have been one of Hitler's best Panzer generals, an opinion I've never seen before. Every other writer I've ever read thought Dietrich was basically useless as an army commander. <br />  <br /> Occasionally, there's an opinion that's interesting in its originality. The author, for instance, is a great admirerof Montgomery, and spends considerable time in the book praising him. There are so many things that he ignores or states incorrectly, however, that you have to wonder why and how he came to the conclusions that he did. <br />  <br /> When someone writes a book, and expresses amusement at his critics and their lack of understanding of his points, he'd better be completely on target with what he says. If he's not, he's going to be subject to some severe criticism. The author does exactly that (the forward to his book is about as condescending as I've ever read) and then proceeds to fall all over the map as far as getting his facts straight is concerned. As a further impediment to understanding what he's saying, since the author is an English professor by trade, he's apparently exempt from rules governing modern grammar, and feels free to use incomplete sentences throughout his book. <br />  <br /> I like history and World War II, and I enjoy new interpretations of events that have been gone over conventionally on a repetitive basis. The problem is that the new light has to be accurate, and in this book it's not even close. I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone; there's nothing here of interest, and if you don't have much knowledge of World War II, you're going to collect a great deal of information that's just plain wrong.	2004-08-04
566248:US	52850806	REWXB55FJ2YML	038072359X	648164757	Fatal Victories	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Entertaining montage of military history	This is one of those composite books, dealing with a group of battles, campaigns, or events, with the idea here being that the author will discuss victories that led to defeat in various times in history. The examples themselves are interesting at times, but somewhat uneven, and the narrative itself is generally well-done. <br /> <br />There are a few shortcomings of this book. I particularly didn't think that the assassination of Franz Ferdinand qualified for as a battlefield victory, though he does a competent job of recounting the event itself. Several of the other battles contained minor errors (nothing major, though) that marred the narrative a bit. <br /> <br />Given all of the above, the author has a breezy writing style that's interesting to read without being too unintellectual, and he presents his case for each battle's inclusion in the collection intelligently. I would recommend this book to everyone who's interested in warfare in general, or history.	2004-08-04
570472:US	52850806	R3QIYOTVTXPGDQ	0451208560	123176868	Chicago Confidential (Mysteries & Horror)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Another Nate Heller Novel	Max Allan Collins is probably one of the best mystery writers who's never really broken out from the pack, and wound up on bestseller lists regularly, like Sue Grafton or Robert B. Parker. He's sort of the king of the also-rans. It's not really a bad place to be, though. He's best known (perhaps) for writing novelizations of movies and TV shows (he did all the CSI books, and Saving Private Ryan, among others) and for writing Road to Perdition, which was made into the Paul Newman/Tom Hanks movie of a couple of years ago. <br /> <br />That being said, among mystery fans he's known for something else. He's been writing the Nathan Heller novels for maybe 20 years now (his son is actually named Nathan in real life) and they're clearly what he enjoys doing the most. The character is a hoot, bedding women right and left, shooting bad guys with considerable skill, and solving every mystery imaginable from the middle of the last century. There's the suspension-of-disbelief factor that I've mentioned before: it takes a bit of an imagination to believe in a character who's involved in all of these different crimes, and solves them all. Once you're over that, they're very entertaining and fun. <br /> <br />In the current installment, the year is 1950, and Heller's in LA hiding from the Kefauver commitee, which is exploring organized crime in America. The Mafia, of course, doesn't officially exist, courtesy of executive fiat from Director Hoover of the FBI. Heller knows better, of course, but he doesn't want to testify, because as he puts it, he knows where the bodies are buried, and in some cases helped bury them. So he's hiding in LA, but he has to return to Chicago to get one of his employees out of trouble, and that starts things going. <br /> <br />There isn't the single high-profile crime here that there is in many of his other books. He's done several like this before, where what murders there are don't measure up, and I don't think it hurts things that much, to tell youthe truth. The story has more than enough historical characters and flavor, and the action is intelligent and fun. I enjoyed this book, and would recommend it.	2004-07-31
575480:US	52850806	R1ENESW69QD85N	0060006765	877189313	Dresden: Tuesday, February 13, 1945	Books	5	8	24	N	N	What Flyboys should have been	This is an impressive, dispassionate look at a very controversial topic that has been of historical interest for about forty years now. Dresden, and the bombing raid that took place there in February 1945, have been a symbol of the supposed senselessness of the Allied, especially British, strategic bombing effort in the Second World War. This book separates fact from fiction and illuminates many aspects of the bombing, the city that was the target, and the circumstances surrounding the attack which are obscure, to say the least. <br />  <br /> Dresden was just another city that had been bombed rather late in the war until David Irving wrote a book about the event in the early sixties, and alleged that the attack had killed in excess of 100,000 civilians for no good reason other than anger and revenge for the Blitz from 1940. Irving is a gifted writer, and in some ways he had a point: the bombing, that late in the war, probably didn't shorten things by that much. The problem, of course, is that those who planned the bombing didn't know the Germans were going to collapse as quickly as they did. <br />  <br /> Taylor's book, by contrast, concentrates on separating fact from reality, and recounting the experiences of survivors, mostly those who were on the ground while the bombing occurred. There are a few accounts from those British and American bomber crewmen who participated in the attacks, but the emphasis is on those who were on the ground. The casualty figures cited in previous books (Irving's, but also McKee's and several that are in German only) turn out to be largely based on inflated statistics that originated with Goebbels while the war was still going on. Various other stories---that the American fighter escorts strafed refugees, for instance---are proven apochryphal, and the whole air campaign in Europe is analyzed and dissected rather intelligently, without all of the politically correct foolishness about &quot;innocent&quot; civilians, and so forth. Thesewere the people, after all, who had a few years earlier burned down the city's synagogue, and many were ardent Nazis. <br />  <br /> I would recommend this book to almost anyone wanting to understand the air war in World War II. It's very well-written, and the points the author makes are intelligent and well-thought-out.	2004-07-27
577998:US	52850806	R3PCXXEN34S2PL	0553580981	214325446	Code 61 (Carl Houseman)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Low-key mystery is still fun	Donald Harstad writes books in the first person, with alter ego Carl Houseman narrating the story that he's involved in. The result is a book that sounds like it was written by a veteran of Iowa law enforcement, which is of course what Harstad is. This is an interesting technique: there's no attempt at beautiful prose (James Lee Burke comes to mind) but rather a mundane as-it-happened reportorial style that's authentic feeling. Sort of like a hand-held camera in a movie during a chase scene...you think you're actually there, or hearing about it from someone who was. <br />  <br /> In this installment, Houseman is first called to an apartment building where a very strange peeping tom is making trouble, then begins to investigate a strange killing in an even stranger house in Nation County. The killer at least appears to be a vampire, or he thinks he's one anyway, and several other participants believe he is also. This leads to much humor, dark and otherwise, and to several interesting plot twists. <br />  <br /> Harstad's weak point, if there is one, is that his plots sort of meander at points, and this one does that halfway through the book. Things get bogged down in his mundane recountings of radio conversations (which he creates using the &quot;ten&quot; codes that they actually use on the radio in Iowa) and various procedural things that go on around a homicide. At times it can get excruciating waiting for something to happen, but the characters are interesting and the dialog's good. <br />  <br /> I enjoyed this book in spite of the shortcomings listed above, and would recommend it. <br />	2004-07-24
584458:US	52850806	RGFVTBU3L2HUC	0471394319	617501100	Lightning War: Blitzkrieg in the West, 1940	Books	3	6	11	N	N	OK, but...	This is a recounting of the campaign of 1940 which culminated in the evacuation of the British Expeditionary Force from the beaches of Dunkirk. The author spends about a third of the book setting the stage for the battle, beginning with the crash-landing of the Me108 in Belgium that leaked to the Allies the original German plan to invade that country and Holland. He then goes on to tell the story of the battle itself, both at the level of the common soldier and that of the national and military leadership.<br />My criticism of the book is two-fold. One half of it is that there are some minor errors (the most notable being the Hitler jig, which was debunked by John Toland 25 years ago) and other interpretations with which I differed somewhat, anyway. As an aside, the business of the British killing POWs is interesting. The author doesn't actually say the British did kill any POWs, but he tells you that they captured about 400 soldiers from SS Totenkopf, then tells you that their fate has never been determined, then recounts to you one account in which a British officer admitted to stopping his men from killing some of the SS prisoners. Lastly he tells you that the SS *believed* that the British had killed those POWs, and says this at least partly explains why the same division killed British POWs later in the campaign.<br />The other difficulty is more one of the overall concept of the book. It's hard to see what the author thought he was adding to the accounts of the battle that have already been written. This is a campaign and battle about which tons of ink have already been spilled,and another concise reasonably well-written account isn't really neccessary, in my view. It's not a bad book, but there are others out there which cover pretty much the same ground, are more accessible, more scholarly, or more revolutionary.	2004-07-18
587030:US	52850806	RT9JEF94XB1JH	0449005615	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderful	I don't know anything about horseracing. I saw the movie, and then this book fell into my hands, and I began it wondering if it would live up to the hype. Of course, it did, and then some. Laura Hillenbrand is a wonderful writer, full of anecdotes and information about the '30s, the depression, and the world of horseracing in those days. The author spends a great deal of time (a quarter or a third of the book) setting the stage, but she does such a wonderful job that you don't mind. When she gets to the spot where things begin to take off, the book is frankly wonderful.<br />I won't tell you anything more about the book, other than to mention that Seabiscuit was the typical underdog (underhorse?) that Americans love to see win, and he didn't dissappoint. I enjoyed this book immensely, and would recommend it to anyone.	2004-07-16
595243:US	52850806	R323HV2A917EMH	074323572X	262640815	Operatives, Spies, and Saboteurs: The Unknown Story of the Men and Women of World War II's OSS	Books	4	49	54	N	N	Interesting, if a bit superficial	Patrick O'Donnell has now written three of these books. Each is a collection of oral histories from World War 2, the first following elite units in Europe, the second covering the same ground in the Pacific. This third volume is a collection of oral histories covering the Office of Strategic Services, or OSS, in Europe. <br />The format is simple. The author collects the histories into a coherent narrative, provides some context, and pads the narrative with some text. The result is a recounting of various campaigns or actions from the ground level, right at the tip of the bayonet.<br />The difficulty, such as it is, comes from the context. There's nowhere near enough of it. The author (as noted elsewhere) speaks in this book as if the OSS did all or most of the infiltration into France and Germany during WW2, only briefly mentioning the French and British infiltrations that were more prevalent. The author focuses on the American forces, as he did in the previous two books, but here it's a bit more egregious. For one thing, the intelligence world is somewhat murky and indistinct, and its effect on the larger campaigns in the war is, to say the least, controversial. Given that we're not sure how much effect these actions had on the campaigns, the author's presentation is problematic. He tends to take whatever a spy says about the effect of an intelligence coup at face value, and expects the reader to do likewise. This is a bit much, at times.<br />Other than that, the book does feel a bit incomplete. One reviewer made an unfavorable comparison with M.R.D. Foot's SOE in France (which by the way should never have been allowed to go out of print); this comparison is unfair, as Foot's book was written in the Sixties, and the author had unprecedented access to classified documents and was allowed to interview a great number of people who were then alive. Though it was a great success, Foot's book cause such a controversy that critics succeeded in blocking publications of any further books by Foot or anyone else. O'Donnell's book is nowhere near as comprehensive, and couldn't be, given the differences in the way they were written.<br />This is a good book, if you understand it's limitations and gee-whiz-look-what-we-did attitude. I enjoyed it and would recommend it.	2004-07-10
597309:US	52850806	RTOJ5AMWJS2YN	0399150471	281240155	Clea's Moon	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent Debut	This is one of those novels that leaves you wondering why the guy hasn't been writing books since he was sixteen or something. It's a detective story, yes, a private eye novel with all of the atmosphere and intellegence that the genre requires to be well done. It's also a wonderful period piece and a decent picture of Hollywood's past.<br />John Ray Horn is a former rodeo bronc-rider turned B-Western star who tanked his career when he decked the son of the head of his studio, putting the guy in the hospital with a broken jaw. He did two years in prison for that, and when he returned, he discovered that his old boss had blacklisted him and his acting career was over. His faithful Indian sidekick, though, had invested his earnings from the movies and bought a poker parlor/casino on the edge of L.A., and he offers Horn a job collecting bad debts from gamblers. Horn reluctantly takes it, though he hates the work.<br />When a friend approaches him with some intriguing information about Horn's former step-daughter (the wife divorced him while he was in jail), he decides to look into things. Then the friend is apparently a suicide, and of course Horn doesn't believe it and looks into that too.<br />The action is interesting, with not too much violence, but enough to keep things exciting, and the characters are wonderfully drawn and intelligently portrayed. Los Angeles has never been more authentically depicted (to my mind the author easily outdoes Ellroy) with the settings, from restaurants to studio lots to the developing San Fernando Valley all wonderfully toured.<br />I loved this book, and I would recommend it to anyone who has an interest in old movies, detective stories, or Los Angeles.	2004-07-09
603567:US	52850806	R13RWYM9HYM43Z	0765343991	647690650	Fox at the Front (Fox on the Rhine)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Interesting, if a bit strange	These two authors came out with a book titled Fox on the Rhine, an alternative history thing that pitted the Germans without Hitler (and better off for their lack), but with Rommel in command of their forces, they make things rather hot for the Allies in France as the Winter of 1944 approaches.<br />As the book ends, Rommel has launched a modified version of the Battle of the Bulge, and gets surrounded, deciding to surrender. The present book begins with Rommel having surrendered, and Patton meeting him. The two eventually decide to join forces, so to speak, and the result is interesting, as they journey across Germany to save Berlin from the Russians. The cast includes various soldiers on both sides, both historical and imaginary, and has various scenes of action at the front and behind the lines.<br />I enjoyed this book, though the premise is a bit kooky, and you do get the idea that the authors worked hard to get Rommel and Patton on the same side in the war	2004-07-04
605092:US	52850806	R2D5Y9NGMKZY2I	0811714519	63891302	Right Hand of Command	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Civil War Staffs: a neglected topic	You would think that there has been so much written about the Civil War that no one would be able to come up with a fresh topic, but that is apparently untrue. Recent works (which I haven't read, (un)fortunately, include studies of sex, songs, and even food during the war. The present book studies something more fundamental to the operations of the armies, the machinery of a Civil War Staff. While staffs could be crucial to an army's operations, they could also be marginal or even detrimental to them, and this study attempts to discover how they worked, or didn't.<br />Rather than discuss staffs for all generals in all theaters, the author decided to study those of four generals in the Civil War. Those four generals are Robert E. Lee, George McClellan, William T. Sherman, and Ulysses S. Grant. Each of the first three has a chapter devoted to him, while Grant gets three chapters to himself, as the author discerns an evolution of his staff and what he concieved of the staff's functions.<br />The idea here is to study how staff officers were used in the army in this war, and this is the first problem. Most men of the era, soldiers or not, regarded staff work as very unmanly, compared with fighting for the cause, whatever it might be. As a result, staff officers often wrote books where they told about their experiences in the war, typically serving with a famous general, but they tended to gloss over or just ignore their own duties in favor of speaking of whichever general they served with. As a result, there's little material that's useful for a study like this, and the book suffers for it.<br />So, when we get to the first three generals, the staffers are really obscure. You don't get a feel for them and their individual functions much. Often, there's an accompanying photograph identified as \\"staff officers\\" of some general or other, with a caption telling you that none of the names of the individuals are known. As a result, this part of the book is somewhat dissappointing, vague and ill-formed.<br />When the author gets to Grant, however, there's more material for him to work with, and the book improves markedly as a result. Grant had a number of staff officers who served with him during the war, several of whom left enough material for us to look at what they were doing and make sense of their functions. At the same time, Grant, ever the pragmatist, evolved his staff from a typical one (copying orders and acting as couriers) to a more modern one, advising subordinates on what the general would want and interpreting orders from him, also. This is the better part of the book, frankly, because the author has more to work with.<br />I enjoyed this book, and would recommend it to Civil War buffs. It's a rather scholarly subject, but the author does a good job making it interesting and informative, and given the paucity of material, this is a very good book on a neglected subject.	2004-07-03
613814:US	52850806	R5E7WDM4KVL8M	B0000C37EB	269804839	The Wild Blue : The Men and Boys Who Flew the B-24s Over Germany 1944-45	Books	3	2	8	N	N	Nothing spectacular, but interesting	I'm not the biggest fan of Stephen Ambrose. He was only a mediocre writer, in my opinion, and though his historian skills were reasonably well-developed, he had a sort of go-with-the-trends attitude towards things that didn't work very well, in my opinion. He was also occasionally caught basically skimming writing from other writers, a big no-no, especially when the skimmer hits the best-seller lists and those they copied from aren't that popular.<br />The Wild Blue is apparently Ambrose's attempt to write something about someone who's politically akin to him. Though he was Eisenhower's official biographer, and also wrote a 3-volume bio of Nixon, Ambrose personally was a Democrat, and in this book he balances things by giving us a war-time bio of George McGovern, of all people. It turns out that mild-mannered George, back in the day, flew a B-24 Liberator in the last months of the war, and was something of a hero.<br />The book, then, is a history of the B-24s in the war in Europe, and of the 15th Air Force, in Italy, and its participation in the war. While the book at times concentrates on McGovern, it also spends considerable time talking about other pilots and crewmen on other B-24s in the war in the Med. It's not quite a bio, but more than just an oral history. You get the idea that Ambrose would have liked to make the whole book about McGovern, but that there just wasn't enough material, so he sort of stretched what he had and added to it to get it to the length it is now.<br />Ambrose isn't my favorite author, as I said, and this isn't his best book, but it wasn't bad.	2004-06-26
614554:US	52850806	R1JGFAU7DH610W	0812967852	448968193	The Crisis of Islam: Holy War and Unholy Terror	Books	5	6	9	N	N	What Went Wrong 2: Better than the original	In the immediate aftermath of the 9/11 attacks, Bernard Lewis released a book titled What Went Wrong. Many panned it as superficial and disjointed, largely because it was the text of several seminar speeches and articles he had written in the past, and therefor not a whole book, so to speak. Now he's released The Crisis of Islam, which attacks the same problem but was written more coherently, directed at this particular issue. The result is a much better book.<br />Lewis is a classicist, and he clearly enjoys and admires Middle Eastern culture. One of his books is a study of Muslim culture, poetry and art and that sort of thing. On the other hand, he has a serious knowledge of the religion of Islam, and he's not afraid to talk about interpretations of parts of the Koran. The result is a nuanced, careful view of the conflict between the radical elements of Islam on the one hand and Western society on the other. <br />This is a good book, though it's very short. It's more of an extended editorial than a real history of anything, but it's still very valuable, and I would recommend it.	2004-06-26
623745:US	52850806	RI8Q02AYNVU7V	0312965680	48472496	Wings of Fire: An Inspector Ian Rutledge Mystery (Ian Rutledge Mysteries)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Unique, strange, and dark...very dark	Charles Todd's first book, A Test of Wills, was a good story, and introduced us to his main character, Ian Rutledge, a detective who spent four years in the trenches of World War I, and returned to policework with the ghost of a subordinate he'd had executed wandering around inside his head. It's a strange idea: a sort of dark version of Calvin and Hobbes, with only Inspector Rutledge able to hear the voice of Hamish as he caustically comments on everything that's going on.<br />In this second installment in the series, Rutledge is called upon to investigate a trio of deaths in the English countryside. One of the dead is a poet who's currently pretty popular, though no one knew she was the poet until she died, and the family's very well-connected also. So Rutledge goes and investigates, but there doesn't seem to be any crime, and though the family's been beset by tragedy repeatedly, everyone seems to think he should go home. He is, however, determined to find out why the poet killed herself, in part because he was attached to her poetry while he was serving in the trenches. There is, however, no apparent crime and worse, if there was a crime, most of the potential suspects are already dead.<br />This makes for a strange, moody, slow-moving mystery, full of atmosphere and dialog, but not much action. I did enjoy it, though, and I would recommend it, especially to mystery fans.	2004-06-19
623854:US	52850806	RGD3W4HAXBA4R	0743456394	651363314	The White Road: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Very dark, very strange	Charlie \\"Bird\\" Parker has been the hero of four mysteries by John Connolly now, and this latest is in some ways the strongest of the bunch. Parker is a detective with an ability to see murdered people, and talk to them. He regards this more as a curse than a gift: they usually look to him for vengeance against those who killed them.<br />In the current installment, Parker is summoned to South Carolina by a lawyer friend to investigate a murder. The supposed killer is a young black man; his victim a young white woman with whom he was having an affair, and whose family is very wealthy. Even in the 21st century, such an interracial affair is frowned upon, and when she winds up dead, the young man's life is in immediate danger. Parker is needed to investigate, and of course he'll have to bring along his gay sidekicks Louis and Angel, a burglar and a hitman, both supposedly retired.<br />Connolly is a strange writer. The prose is almost poetic, the descriptions and philosophy of the writing is dark and elegaic, almost too descriptive. The characters are interesting, especially the villains. In this one, Kittim is especially repulsive and terrifying. In addition, there's a well-drawn small character who is initially not too positive, but turns out for the better in the end.<br />I enjoyed this book. It has characters from some of Connolly's previous books, and I would recommend reading the four books in order, but this is a worthy addition to the series.	2004-06-19
627984:US	52850806	R2H9PLZ3U2XQ87	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Fascinating Footnote to History	Simon Winchester has written a very unusual book about a very strange series of events during the last century and the dawn of this one. First, we have various literary authorities in England deciding to compile and edit a massive dictionary (eventually it became the Oxford English Dictionary), which took 70 years to finish and filled multiple volumes. Then we have the editor of the project for most of its life discovering that one of his most valuable contributors was in a lunatic asylum because he murdered someone. The story goes from there.<br />Winchester is a good writer, and he milks this story for everything it's worth. He spends a good deal of time talking about side issues, as is common with this sort of slice-of-life thing. He does a very good job with them, as far as I can tell. I'm pretty knowledgeable with regards to the American Civil War; the author must tell you of the Battle of the Wilderness to explain how the murderer went mad, and he does so skilfully. The writing of the OED and its contents are intelligently discussed and dissected, and the history of dictionaries themselves was fascinating. The other characters, namely the editor of the dictionary itself, James Murray, are interesting and well-drawn.<br />I enjoyed this book a great deal. It is short, but it's fascinating, and I would recommend it pretty much universally.	2004-06-16
631717:US	52850806	RQHXPGNH76CUK	006009527X	199840819	Fire Lover: A True Story	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Strange book about a strange character	This is an unusual book. I don't think I've ever read a book about an arsonist before, certainly not a non-fiction book, and the story that it tells is so fantastic that it's one of those stranger-than-fiction tales that defies belief.<br />The book tells the story of John Leonard Orr. Orr was a frustrated individual, from a split household, who tried to become a policeman and failed, and wound up becoming a firefighter, both in the Air Force and then in the city of Glendale here in Southern California. He rose to become Glendale's senior arson investigator, actually teaching classes that other arson investigators, even Federal ones, attended. He was considered one of the leading authorities on arson fires and arsonists in California. Then suspicion fell on him and his activities, and he was arrested and accused of being an arsonist himself. The accusation was followed by a pair of trials.<br />Now I live in Montrose (yards from the border of the city of Glendale) and used to actually live in Glendale, so it was interesting to read about the locale and the people of my new home (I've lived here for five years). Everything's reasonably well-recreated, though I didn't think Glendale was made that unique compared with other Southern California cities. Orr comes across as something of a nerd, a doofus who's always trying to fit in while never quite making it, and always cheating on the current wife with the prospective one, while paying child support to the ex.<br />Wambaugh's writing style is interesting, in that he uses a lot of slang and emphasis to show what he means, and has a very conversational style. It'd be interesting to hear Ken Howard read this book: it reads as if it would sound better than it looks on the page. I will confess that the cast of characters is large enough that I had trouble keeping track of all of the investigators and attorneys involved, and I think it would have helped if the author provided a dramatis personae at the beginning of the book.<br />One note: several of the other reviewers presented the idea that the author thinks cops are somehow better than firefighters. This is erroneous. It's his position, stated and restated through the book, that the crime spree was solved by a firefighter turned arson investigator, and that he was ignored by his cop colleagues until the evidence confirmed his suspicions. He does say, several times, that cops themselves sometimes think themselves firefighters, but he's clear that he thinks this is unfortunate. Strange when people have read the same book as you, and come to a different interpretation of what was written. Altogether a good book, though.	2004-06-12
633258:US	52850806	R1GFU4EMI4RKJQ	0060957867	637630453	Faith of My Fathers: A Family Memoir	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Interesting, if a bit abbreviated	Faith of My Fathers is John McCain's memoir of his service in the Vietnam war, with an extended prologue in which he introduces you to his father and grandfather, their deeds, and what these acts mean to him. It's interesting, but the memoir half of the book isn't that long and so it's somewhat less satisfying than it could be.<br />McCain's grandfather and father were both admirals (the first father and son to both reach four star rank in the Navy's history). McCain the elder commanded aircraft carriers during WW2, under Admiral Halsey. Halsey is quoted as saying that McCain was &quot;not much more than my right arm.&quot; McCain served during the last year of the war in command of Halsey's carriers or a large portion of them, and did so ably.<br />The second McCain was a submarine commander during the same conflict, and was Commander in Chief of the Pacific during the Viet Nam War. He held this latter position when his son, the author of the book, was shot down over North Viet Nam and captured by the Vietnamese. Both father and grandfather appear to have been loyal, skilfull sailors who fought hard and lived harder, something that McCain apparently has done also.<br />The faith of the title is less religious than it sounds, though the author makes it clear that he's Christian. Instead, the faith turns out to be an abiding attachment to the core values that officers in the armed services once held: being honorable, faithful to the flag and the uniform, loyal to their country, and of course conventionally rowdy (drinking and gambling too much, chiefly) but never anything that would raise anyone's eyebrows, really. There is a strong religious element to it, but it's not overwhelming.<br />I enjoyed this book. McCain is an interesting and at times infuriating Republican, but he's also very up front abou what he considers his core beliefs and how he tries to hold on to them. The best parts of the book are the passages where he tells of the Vietnamese attempts to torture him and other prisoners into confessing to war crimes. He makes it clear that the war criminals weren't the captives. I would recommend this book, especially for those who wish to learn more about John McCain.	2004-06-11
640240:US	52850806	R295O61T7E6A3O	0140183507	294217435	Eminent Victorians (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Not what you'd expect	This is a strange book. The author created quite a stir when he published it at the close of the First World War: it's not the laudatory, voluminous biography that was popular at the time. Instead, it's a more impressionistic work, artistic rather than factual. And since it's not one biography but four short ones, the individual sketches tend to be more along the lines of extended eulogies or obituaries.<br />The four people studied in this book are Cardinal Manning (who almost became Pope), Dr. Arnold (who reformed the British public school system), Florence Nightingale, and General &quot;Chinese&quot; Gordon (killed defending Khartoum). The first difficulty, I would imagine, for the average American reader is that of these four, only Florence Nightingale will be familiar. The book only briefly touches on the events of the people whose lives are sketched here, and it's helpful to know something of the individual's background and life prior to picking up the current book. I only knew &quot;Chinese&quot; Gordon, and him not that well, so the four bios were only of moderate interest to me.<br />The writing style, however, stood out. The author has a bad habit of stretching his thoughts out beyond all reason. Paragraphs, at various points, run upwards of two pages in length, and sentences fill line after line. The author is full of opinions, and pushes them at you rather relentlessly. The tone of the book, and the way it was recieved at the time, show a considerable irreverence, as all of the bios involved are at least somewhat negative. While &quot;Chinese&quot; Gordon has always been known to have been somewhat eccentric, and the criticism of Manning and Arnold are probably irrelevant to most now, Florence Nightingale is mainly criticized for being a pushy woman. I don't know that this will play very well these days, especially since she was right more than wrong.<br />I enjoyed this book reasonably well, given the shortcomings that I knew it had going in. I would recommend it to those interested in the topic, the author, or the era of British history.	2004-06-06
646968:US	52850806	R24YAO4WLTVYO2	038073186X	339916413	Shutter Island	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hitchcock Redux	This is a strange novel. The atmosphere is so heavy, the characters so stereotypical, the action so creepy, that you wonder if you're supposed to think this is more subtle than that. It is, but not in the way you expect, and I can't say more without giving away the big surprise of the plot.<br />Teddy Daniels and Chuck Aule are U.S. Marshals, sent to the mental facility at Shutter Island to assist in the search for an escapee, a woman named Rachel Solando who killed her children and has been incarcerated in this facility for some years. The facility holds only the most dangerous criminals, violent and delusionally insane, and tries a varied regimen of treatments to deal with their problems. The difficulty comes in that the Marshals are convinced that someone's not telling the truth: the escaped woman apparently dissolved and walked through walls to escape, and it seems everyone at the hospital is lying about what happened. Nothing seems to make any sense. As they investigate further, things get stranger and stranger, and then stranger still.<br />I enjoyed this book, but I can't recommend it wholeheartedly. It's not that suspenseful, more atmospheric than anything else, and the plot twist isn't completely unexpected, just a bit strange. It's also a bit derivative of a popular movie of a few years ago (I won't tell you which one, because it might partially ruin the twist for you here) and somewhat depressing. I did enjoy the book, and I would recommend it, given those shortcomings.	2004-06-01
659673:US	52850806	R32S2ZQ6P6VUJ2	0553581058	237994876	O Jerusalem (Mary Russell Novels)	Books	2	18	23	N	N	Uneven Holmes pastiche	Laurie King has written a number of these books now, with the main character a young girl who shows Sherlock Holmes how a woman can be just as effective as a man in a whole list of different ways. This is of course a very modern idea, and it's doubtful that the real Sherlock Holmes, written by the real Conan Doyle, would have espoused this view, but we give her the benefit of the doubt because the premise is fun.<br />Here, though, the premise isn't that fun. For mysterious reasons (apparently regarding the end of The Beekeeper's Apprentice, which I don't remember very well) Holmes and his young friend Mary Russell are thrown ashore in Palestine ca. 1919, courtesy of Sherlock Holmes' brother Mycroft. They immediately hook up with a couple of mysterious local Arabs, who guide them about the country aimlessly, after making clear how useless they think Holmes and Russell are. It takes several hundred pages before things actually get going.<br />The difficulty is that this really isn't a detective novel: instead, it's a spy novel, and a slow-moving one at that. It's 300 pages or so before the plot actually takes shape and we know what Holmes and Russell are looking for. It's slow and not very suspenseful, and it takes so long to get going that by the time it does, we don't care what's going on. I have to confess that while some of the characters were interesting, the plot was so moribund that I wasn't that impressed. I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone other than Holmes fanatics.	2004-05-21
659833:US	52850806	R1UELRQD7O25FS	0446609048	338687635	Run Jane Run	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Female Bond?...How about female Ludlum?	This is an attempt to make a female-oriented James Bond-type thing. Jane Nichols is an MI-5 agent who chases around the world killing terrorists, infiltrating espionage organizations, and chasing other spies. In AKA Jane she winds up hiding in Savannah, and also winds up falling in love with the local police chief. She's still living with the chief when Run Jane Run starts, but working for her old boss in MI-5 on occasion. At the start of this book, she leaves Alex (the police chief) and goes back to England, but one last mission leaves her wounded, confused, and having nightmares that bring back memories of the death of her parents when she was a small child. She flees back to Alex, and of course the bad guys follow.<br />There's a strange feeling to this book, difficult to figure out at first. All of the blurbs speak of the main character as a female James Bond, but of course she isn't: she's more like a character in one of Robert Ludlum's books. Then it finally hit me: this isn't really a spy novel, it's a romance novel with an espionage theme. The romance aspects of the novel are very apparent once you look at it this way, and it becomes clear that this is mainly a melodrama, not a real story. I would only recommend this book to people interested in the idea of a romance novel with espionage overtones; everyone else should look elsewhere.	2004-05-21
670034:US	52850806	RCUGUCJKSMJ8W	0316155306	561654368	The Narrows	Books	5	17	19	N	N	The Return of the Poet	Some years ago, I read a pair of novels by Michael Connelly, back when pretty much no one knew who he was. The Black Ice and Black Echo were pretty good detective novels, but they were also pretty formulaic. The character was the typical slob loner, obsessed with catching bad guys and unable to form a meaningful relationship with a woman unless she was in the department and the relationship itself was work-related. I've followed Connelly's career from there, and worked my way through his books as they've come out (with the exception of Lost Light, which I have but haven't read yet). He's grown tremendously as a writer, adding layers to his characters, his prose style, and his plots. Several of those plots (notably Blood Work, the Poet, Angel's Flight, and the Concrete Blonde) are standouts in detective fiction, so cleverly written that the mystery's just wonderful, and adds layers to the story.<br />Here, the plot is more straightforward. Terry McCaleb, the protagonist of Blood Work, has been killed. Though he and Harry Bosch (Connelly's main character in most of his books) didn't really get along well in life, McCaleb's widow, Graciela, is concerned that his killing wasn't the heart attack it seems, and asks Harry to look into it. Meanwhile, Rachel Walling, the heroine of The Poet, is called out of exile from South Dakota. The FBI HQ in Quantico has recieved a strange package, addressed to her, which leads them to a stretch of desert on the road between LA and Las Vegas, where they discover ten bodies buried in the ground, and strange indications that it might be the same Poet. Their stories merge partway through the book.<br />This is one of the most satisfying books I've read in recent years. I will admit that Connelly's choice to jump between first person narration (with Bosch doing the talking) and third person (mostly following Rachel) was a bit jarring at first, but I got used to it. There are most of the Connelly touches: an enigmatic character who just fades in and out in one scene, but will be recognizable to Connelly fans as Cassie Black, the thief heroine of Void Moon, and of course Connelly's almost encyclopedic knowledge of Southern California. He even gets things like the place to hold a large retirement party right.<br />I like Michael Connelly, and I especially liked this book. I would highly recommend it, though people who haven't read other of his books might want to look into a few others, first.	2004-05-13
675797:US	52850806	REI85ADOO6891	0880641487	370655917	Happy Birthday, Turk!	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting, if a bit strange	There are any number of private eye novelists around, and I'm one of those people who are always looking for something different. This book, a first novel about a man of Turkish descent who works in Frankfurt, Germany, as a private eye, is definitely different. It comes with the usual trappings of a detective novel, but it's a good story nontheless.<br />Kemal Kayankaya is Turkish by birth but was raised by Germans, and has little left of his heritage. He works in Frankfurt as a private eye, and is very stereotypical: he drinks too much, fools around with prostitutes, cracks wise when he would be wise to be serious, and is doggedly determined to solve his case. In the current installment, a Turkish man has been murdered and his wife thinks the police have no interest in solving the crime because of his race. Kayankaya dives into the case face first, getting into fistfights, having a car chase him, and getting teargassed, in between pistol-whipping various suspects.<br />This is a good book: I would recommend it. It *does* have the dated feel that a lot of European stuff has in contrast to American movies and television. You always think they're looking to Chandler rather than Robert B. Parker for their inspiration. Everything's *very* hardboiled. That being said, this is a fun book.	2004-05-08
676647:US	52850806	R1TBKCX8OT43V8	0425194795	563294014	Back Story (Spenser)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Parker improves with age	At this point it's kind of academic, telling people that Spenser novels are fun to read. They're so easy to follow, quick to digest, and fun to enjoy, that it's almost a shame when the book proves to only be 280 pages or so long. The dialog's snappy, the characters interesting, and of course the plot winds up being almost irrelevant, just a vehicle for Spenser, Hawk, Vinnie, Capt. Quirk, and the gang to sit and talk for a while, and then shoot some bad guys.<br />This time around, Paul Giacomin (Spenser's adoptive son, first seen in one of the best Spenser novels, Early Autumn) brings Spenser a client, a young actress he knows whose mother was murdered in a bank robbery almost thirty years ago. She wants Spenser to find who shot her mother, and, Spenser being Spenser, when it turns out that she brought half a dozen Krispy Kreme donuts for him, he impulsively takes the case. I guess Spenser hasn't been caught up in the low-carb diet craze.<br />Instead, he soon finds himself mired in a decades-old murder case where all of the principles seem to have been Simbionese-Liberation-Army-type lunatics who waved guns around and shot people randomly, and just caught this young woman in the crossfire. Things are not what they seem, however, and everyone from the FBI to the CIA to the local mafia gets involved, trying to tell Spenser to leave the case alone and find something else to do. This, of course, only provokes Spenser, and makes him more curious about what's happening.<br />I enjoy Parker's writing immensely, and as I said, the plot's secondary to the characters, the dialog, and the writing. Parker by now has become the closest we're going to have (I think) to Raymond Chandler, and he's a great deal more prolific, thankfully. This was a reasonable addition to what's just about the longest-running series in American detective fiction, and what's certainly the most popular.	2004-05-07
690575:US	52850806	R4ZLOWA21EMVM	0940450100	328255742	Francis Parkman : France and England in North America : Vol. 1: Pioneers of France in the New World, The Jesuits in North America in the Seventeenth Century, La Salle and the Discovery of the Great West, The Old Regime in Canada (Library of America)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Massive work on France in North America	Francis Parkman was apparently a real workhorse, and something of a fixture in Boston society also. The first book of this series is dedicated to (among others) the guy played by Matthew Broderick in the movie Glory of some years ago. The four books reprinted here represent a century or so of the history of New France. The work as a whole is somewhat deceptively titled &quot;France and England in North America&quot; when the focus of the work is pretty much exclusively on New France.<br />There are really four separate books here. &quot;Pioneers of France in the New World&quot; is divided into two portions. One tells the story of the short-lived French settlement in Florida, the other part recounts the work of Samuel de Champlain in what became known as Canada, and recounts the fateful decision of Champlain to take the side of the local Huron Indians against their perrenial enemies, the Iroqouis. &quot;The Jesuits in North America in the Seventeenth Century&quot; recounts the activities of that sect in their missions which tried without much success to convert the various tribes to Catholicism. &quot;LaSalle and the Discovery of the Great West&quot; tells the story of that individual, and his exploration of the Mississippi valley, the Great Lakes, and Texas, where he was killed, and also includes an account of the travels of Marquette and Joliet, discoverers of the Mississippi river. &quot;The Old Regime in Canada&quot; is more of a description of the colony than an account of events in it, though in the early pages of the work, there is an account of various incidents in the era just after the previous volume. Most of the book contains a description of society, culture, government, church, and economy in the late 17th century, though, and that's the focus of the work.<br />This is a justly famous work, though Parkman doesn't age as well as you might imagine. He uses strange usages of various words, with somewhat interesting grammar at times, also. The view of the Indians is particularly awkward, and very politically incorrect. He repeatedly refers to them as &quot;savages&quot; for instance, and has little use for their religious beliefs or culture. His view of Catholicism is also characteristically negative, which isn't a surprise in that he wrote in 19th century New England.<br />Given the clumsy language and the interesting viewpoints, I believe this book is anyway very valuable, and I enjoyed it. There is the issue of it being 1500+ pages, so I wouldn't recommend this book to the faint of heart. Given that this is only the first of two volumes, and that the second one is 100 pages longer, this is a considerable investment of time, even for the prodigious reader.	2004-04-27
718962:US	52850806	RRGY71BC4DUEE	0316092827	475004767	At the Highest Levels: The Inside Story of the End of the Cold War	Books	4	15	19	N	N	The end of the Soviet Union, and the Cold War	This is an interesting, and surprising book. I was expecting a critique of the first Bush presidency's foreign policy, given author Talbott's credentials (he's a lifelong friend of Clinton and served as Deputy Secretary of State under him). Instead, it's a detailed recounting of the diplomatic negotiations during the last three years of the Soviet Union, culminating with Gorbachev's dissolution of the U.S.S.R.<br />The book focuses, to a large extent, on the relationships between the men (and women) on both sides, and their negotiations. It spends a good deal of time on the positions they take, the ideals they followed, and the tactics they tried. There is detailed discussion of the personalities of the various men involved, the issues they had to deal with domestically, and the things they feared the other side might do. I have to say I was impressed with the way the book was structured, and with the opinions it expressed. Academics here in the U.S.A. tended, at the time, to be exasperatingly infatuated with Gorbachev, and blind to his shortcomings. The authors are smart enough not to fall into these traps, and are refreshingly perceptive of the last General Secretary and his personality quirks, both positive and negative. Even more surprising, given that Talbott is so close to Bill Clinton, the assessment of the elder George Bush is pretty fair, too. The authors spend a good deal of time praising his attitude and intelligence, and while they do criticize some of his decisions and maneuvers, they also praise many of the things he did.<br />The book is written in the Woodward style, with extensive interviews with people who participated in the various discussions and negotiations. Those interviews are sealed for a serious length of time, and in the meanwhile we have to take the authors at their word. There are extensive discussions of the various negotiations, and they're fascinating. I enjoyed this book a great deal, but thought that it was a bit focused on the narrow subject, and somewhat isolated in narrative as a result.row subject, and somewhat isolated in narrative as a result.	2004-04-05
721807:US	52850806	R33RH0S1SFFQGB	0345451902	354796806	The Last Detective	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Cole moves along	Robert Crais has had an arc to his career that has been interesting, to say the least. Crais started out writing cute, relatively straightforward, violent private eye novels. He's sort of grown into a more serious novelist, an introspective, careful writer whose characters are deep and interesting. He mad the break some years ago with L.A. Requiem, which gave us a good deal of background on Joe Pike, the partner of the main character and narrator of the books, Elvis Cole. Since, he's written a couple of stand alone novels. This latest book is a return to Pike and Cole, and it's the companion to L.A. Requiem, except this time we learn stuff about Cole rather than Pike.<br />Several books ago, Cole developed a girlfriend from New Orleans. Lucy has a son, and they moved to L.A. to be with Cole. Elvis is watching the son, Ben, one day, and he goes to do something; when he returns, Ben is nowhere to be seen. When Elvis begins to look for her, he becomes convinced that the people who took Ben are more clever or well-trained than any one else initially suspected.<br />The one quibble I had with the book was the switching points of view. I don't like this writing technique. I know that it's difficult to write from the first person perspective, and I know this is a stylish choice to make, and a big temptation: it allows you to tell the story with more dimensions to it. It doesn't matter to me: I still hate it.<br />Other than that, I enjoyed the book immensely, and would recommend it.	2004-04-02
727474:US	52850806	R2QV55MB1DH14L	0156028808	76080055	The Blind Man of Seville	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fascinating, but not really suspenseful	Robert Wilson writes some of the most unusual fiction in modern literature. His books are multi-layered, with a deceptively simple mystery plot which usually mutates into a long, complex riff on a variety of subjects. In the present instance, the murder of a Seville restauranteur sets the local homicide inspector on the trail of a killer who seems a bit to clever, and very familiar with the detective.<br />This is an amazing book, but it's important to emphasize that it's not a suspense novel, really. There's a mystery, here, but the suspense is on the level of The Name of the Rose, say, as opposed to the latest by Robert Crais or Jeffrey Deaver. Instead, the plot wanders through a whole list of issues, dealing with everything from corruption and adultery to homophobia and psychological disorders, with a good deal of Spanish atmosphere thrown in. I would tell you more about the story, but that would only make it less compelling when you read it. I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys serious literature, or mysteries, provided they can handle something that has more than just a puzzle.	2004-03-29
729385:US	52850806	RKDP6R7T95FB5	093385241X	930586444	Peleliu: 1944	Books	4	25	27	N	N	For Specialists Only!	Harry Gailey is somewhat well-known among historians of the Second World War in the Pacific. He's probably best-known as the historian who's most critical of senior Marine officers during the war in the Pacific, most notably during the Battle of Saipan. His book on that battle, &quot;Howlin' Mad Vs. the Army&quot;, is the ultimate indictment of Holland Smith and his removal of of General Ralph Smith during the battle on that island. The current book considers the battle for Peleliu, one of the most senseless and pointless battles of the Pacific or any other war. Launched to protect a supply line that didn't exist from planes that had already been destroyed, the invasion was supposed to go off without a hitch and take only a few days. As is usual with that sort of prediction (you'd think people would learn) the battle took six weeks rather than the predicted four days.<br />The battle was directed mostly by the commanding general of the first Marine division at the battle, William Rupertus. General Rupertus comes in for most of the criticism that Gailey directs at the conception of this invasion. Rupertus was assisted by Oliver P. Smith (later commander of the division during the Korean War) and the division's regiments were led by, among others, the legendary Lewis &quot;Chesty&quot; Puller.<br />The invasion was planned rather simply, with the three Marine regiments landing abreast on the southwest coast of the island, one battalion of the rightmost regiment held in reserve. There were two regiments of an army division in transit that could have been used as a reserve, but Rupertus, like many Marine generals, was very disdainful of the army, and decided that they would be no help. As a result, the division was shot to pieces during the battle, suffering 1300 killed and another 6700 wounded. The army finished up the fighting in the hills on the western coast of the island, where the battle raged on into 1945 on a small scale.<br />The book is not as long as some other books, and it's definitely not the usual oral history sort of thing that's popular these days. Instead, it's more of an analysis of the combat that happened on the island, the maneuvers that occurred, and the results. As much as possible, there's discussion of what was going on in the Japanese command post also, though there the motives are somewhat murky because all the high-level participants on the island were killed in the fighting, or committed suicide.<br />This is a short, dispassionate look at the battle, the personalities, and the issues involved in the island battle. I enjoyed it, but those who like the human interest stuff may find it somewhat lacking. It is, however, a good analysis of the battle and the campaign.	2004-03-27
729453:US	52850806	RGPMXLRHADN	0440217334	98110751	Last Sanctuary	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Not as good as The River Sorrow	I liked Craig Holden's first book, The River Sorrow, so this was something of a disappointment to me. The plot is interesting, the characters are quirky and innovative, and the action's good enough to keep your interest, but somehow the sum added up to less than the parts.<br />Joe Curtis is trying to go to Seattle to bail his brother out of trouble when his car breaks down. He decides to hitchhike the rest of the way, and winds up getting picked up by a couple. The male half of the couple robs a convenience store, shoots three people, and then tries to frame Joe for the killings. The three of them then split up, and the chase begins.<br />There are several characters in the story, including a Native American ATF agent, an Asian one too, members and a leader of a strange religious cult, and other interesting people. Somehow, none of them are particularly compelling. You don't care, really, if any of them live or die, and you don't wonder what's going to happen to them. When the action begins, you're uninterested in what's going to happen next.<br />I enjoyed The River Sorrow, and I suppose someone else might be more interested in this than I am. There are several annoying errors also (the Branch Davidians didn't have a .50 cal. MG, as the ATF alleged) and they detract from the story. I wouldn't recommend this book unless the person was aware of what they were getting into.	2004-03-27
732488:US	52850806	R2OCNIFP2VTH80	0881842397	817091087	The Panther's Feast	Books	4	23	23	N	N	The Spy Who Betrayed an Empire	If you read much about Austria-Hungary during World War 1, you read about Colonel Alfred Redl, who betrayed his own army to every nation who would pay for his information. This is at least a partial explanation of how Austria-Hungary was so completely defeated in 1914 and later in the war. The story of how this came to happen is fascinating, and Robert Asprey does a good job of telling that story, even if the book is sort of strange in some ways.<br />Redl was a commoner, with no family connections or mentor to see to his advancement in the Austro-Hungarian army. Instead, he relied on his skill as an officer and an ability to ingratiate himself with his superiors, combined with a seemingly limitless energy. As he rose in rank, the list of superior officers who thought him worthy of high rank lengthened, and he was soon on the fast track to success, becoming a General Staff officer.<br />But Redl had a secret---he was gay. In those days, homosexuality was strictly prohibited in all of the armies of the world, especially for an officer of such rank and prominence. Redl had affairs with men throughout his life, never apparently able to control himself for long. When he once had an affair with a woman, he apparently contracted syphilis and gonorrhea from that one woman, and he appears to have never been seriously attached to a woman again.<br />Soon after becoming a General Staff officer, Redl was assigned to the Intelligence Bureau, and worked there for most of the rest of his life. During the years leading up to World War 1, Redl was instrumental in setting up Austria-Hungary's intelligence apparatus, and regularizing the gathering of intelligence and its analysis.<br />Thing was, a Russian spy figured out that Redl was gay, and the Russians soon began blackmailing him. Not only was he gay, but once he became a spy in the pay of the Russians it turned out he had extravagant tastes. Since no one paid attention to these things, he could baldly lie, create a ficticious relative who died and left him a large amount of money, and then spend like a fool. No one ever suspected he was earning the money illicitly. This continued for some time, and Redl did a considerable amount of damage prior to Austria-Hungary's entry into World War 1.<br />This book is interesting, if a bit strange. I had two misgivings about the book. One is the author's obvious creation of dialog which the characters speak to one another as if they were characters in a novel. When a character speaks, it's hard to tell if he's saying something he really thought, or something Asprey invented or surmised from other evidence. This leads me to the second misgiving: there are no footnotes, so I didn't know where the information came from. Since so much of the dialog is obviously invented, you have to wonder, then, which is completely an invention, and which is only partially invented.<br />That aside, this is a good book, interesting and informative, and not very long or involved. I would recommend it to specialists interested in World War 1 or espionage, or perhaps gay issues.	2004-03-25
736090:US	52850806	RM62YELTPIDFL	031204643X	509237965	One Gallant Rush: Robert Gould Shaw and His Brave Black Regiment/Movie Tie in to the Movie "Glory"	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Really more a biography than the title implies	This book was at least partially the basis for the movie Glory, which starred Morgan Freeman, Cary Elwes, Matthew Broderick, and Denzel Washington (who won an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor). The movie is reasonably historically accurate, though there are parts where they took liberties with the truth. The book sets the record straight in a number of ways.<br />The book, however, is largely a biography of Robert Gould Shaw. Shaw was born a child of privalege, and raised to be an abolitionist and a devout Christian. When the war started, he saw it as his duty to enlist, first serving in the ranks of a New York regiment, and later securing appointment as a Captain in the 2nd Massachusetts Infantry. When the Emancipation Proclamation was announced and the recruiting of Black soldiers began (this was part of the actual proclamation) the governor of Massachussetts decided to recruit his own regiment of Blacks, and appointed Shaw to be the colonel. The regiment served briefly in the siege of Charleston, South Carolina, before leading the charge on Fort Wagner, to the south of the city, in which Shaw was killed and the regiment decimated.<br />This book, as I said, is mostly a biography of Shaw. Since he wasn't anyone particularly prominent, and since he only lived to be 25, there's not a lot to say, and the book is as a result rather short, about 150 pages. Shaw comes off as committed, intelligent, perhaps a bit naive, but brave and skilled. It's an interesting character study, and an interesting but brief account of this one action in the siege of Charleston. There isn't, however, much else to the book, so be warned, it's rather thin. If that's what interests you, however, it's worth the effort.	2004-03-22
738716:US	52850806	R1V40ZTY1WVN3D	070061186X	409235230	The Soviet-Afghan War: How a Superpower Fought and Lost	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Talk about wooden prose!	Soviet General Staff studies are generally interesting, but difficult to read. They're intended for Soviet officers, and intend to convey lessons that can be used in future conflicts. I've read a couple that deal with World War II, and if they'd been carved into trees they couldn't have been more wooden. This book suffers from that: lifeless technical prose with no attempt to keep the reader's attention. What the book contains, though, is a wealth of information and knowledge of how the war in Afghanistan was fought, from the weapons and tactics that were used to the method by which Soviet soldiers in Afghanistan received their mail.<br />This is at times very interesting. There's a great deal about tactics and weaponry, and much about the technical aspects of soldiering, everything from aviation to engineering to supply and construction. Though there's a lot of information in the book, it's not sorted chronologically: there's no central narrative history of events. Instead, there's a brief prologue telling of the beginning of the war, and an even briefer epilogue recounting the Soviet withdrawal. I'm still waiting for a narrative of the war that's reasonably accessible, with detail and a reasonable narrative that I can follow, so that I have a better background into what's going on there now.	2004-03-20
747453:US	52850806	R273I6B7KRRKS1	0515135631	759320986	The Man with the Red Tattoo	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Bland...James Bland	Since the days of Ian Fleming, James Bond has been spying on England's enemies, and shooting those who prove dangerous and elusive. He also, of course, seduces beautiful women (the only ones he seems to encounter) and uses cute gadgets with which he can defeat the villains. All of these elements are included in this entry in the James Bond saga, written by Raymond Benson this time.<br />This time around, Bond is sent to Japan to look over the situation there in preparation for the G8 conference, which the British Prime Minister is scheduled to attend. When Bond arrives in Japan, he finds that an old enemy, Goro Yoshida, is apparently planning a nefarious attack on the G8, and has some diabolical weapons to deploy.<br />The James Bond series has been going along for many years now, and it seems to have lost most of its uniqueness and interest, at least with me. These days, it's silly that he smokes, and stupid that he carries a Walther PPK (everyone else carries a 9mm.). The beautiful women seem like an endless parade, and the villains seem almost by the numbers. In this case, the villain is fun, but Bond himself is sort of silly, two-dimensional, and uninteresting. Frankly, I think this will be the last James Bond novel I read, unless I go back and reread some of the earlier stuff.	2004-03-13
752141:US	52850806	R1TLTMAI2BJCIT	0070303479	608951360	Death of a Generation: From Neuve Chapelle to Verdun and the Somme.	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Short account of Western Front, WW1	Alistair Horne is probably the most respected British military historian who concentrates on France and the French military. He's written about the Siege of Paris, the French collapse in 1940, and Algeria's War of Independance. This particular book encapsulates some of his earlier work on the Battle of Verdun (in the book The Price of Glory) and incorporates a separate section on the battles the British fought in northern France, Nieuve Chapelle through the Somme.<br />I've never seen a book from this series (called the Library of the 20th Century) before, but I was reasonably impressed. It contains a number of photographs and paintings, some of them in color. The maps are substandard, but given that the book is only 120 pages in length, there's not going to be enough detail to utilize detailed maps anyway. There's not a lot of text either: most pages have, at best, six or eight paragraphs. Horne is an excellent writer though, and makes sure to emphasize the horror of the trenches for all concerned, and the disdain with which the high command viewed their men's suffering. There's a quote from one British officer concerning the trenches being knee-deep in mud: &quot;The men do not mind so much.&quot; Makes you wonder, doesn't it?<br />Anyway, if you're interested in World War I this book could give you some insight, though its focus is rather narrow, only dealing with the war from late 1914 through the end of 1916, and only dealing with the Western Front. Italy, Roumania, Serbia, Gallipoli, and Russia are mentioned, but only very briefly, so you'll have to go elsewhere to learn what happened at those places. If you're interested in a short account of the battles at the Somme or Verdun, however, this is the book for you.	2004-03-10
752849:US	52850806	R34MO5FKSDUMCI	0306808277	880149006	Cuba Or The Pursuit Of Freedom	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Need a new Doorstop?	I've never read much about the history of Cuba or its politics, but I have enjoyed other books written by Hugh Thomas, and thought I might give this one a shot also. I will further confess that sometimes large books have a sort of fascination for me, and this is the largest single volume narrative I've ever seen: the book is 1710 pages long, and of that 1508 is text. Seriously, 1500+ pages of information on something is bound to be fascinating. If there are some errors here and there, it's to be expected, isn't it? I myself noticed a few typos, and a couple of minor inaccuracies involving American history, but I won't quibble.<br />The fascinating thing about the book is the author's ability to focus on Cuban history over what's a relatively short period of time. The heart of the narrative concentrates on the period between the end of the Seven Years' War (when the island was occupied for almost a year by the British) and the spot just about exactly 200 years later when the Cuban Missile Crisis ended. There is a parade of personalities, from Maceo and Marti to Guevera and of course Castro, lengthy discussion of the sugar crop and things like coffee, cigars, and rice, and discussion of everything from unions to industry to political parties and the church. All of this is wonderfully conveyed, with much detail and authenticity. The prose is a bit wordy at times, but overall the book is very readable and accessible.<br />I enjoyed this book a great deal, but I will tell you that there's a mountain of information here, and it can be a bit tough to get through. The title of my review is funny, but it's also realistic: this is probably more than most people wish to know on the subject of Cuba. For those who are interested, though, it's worth the effort.	2004-03-09
753583:US	52850806	R39Z5W44H34XF7	0312989695	578583138	The Big Dig (Carlotta Carlyle Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Carlotta as a secretary	There have been half a dozen or more Carlotta Carlyle mysteries over the years. She's sort of a melding of elements of Spenser on the one hand and V.I. Warshawski and Kinsey Millhone on the other. The author has a good take on Boston and the culture there, and has a good character which she involves in interesting mysteries.<br />In this installment, she's been hired by a larger P.I. firm which is investigating irregularities on an extremely large construction project, the Big Dig of the title. Basically, they're building a freeway system *under* Boston, so that the traffic won't interfere with the city as much. There's supposedly some sort of fraud going on at a particular construction site, and Carlotta goes undercover to investigate, posing as a secretary.<br />When she gets there she's bored silly by the case, and on impulse takes a second investigation on. In this second investigation, a woman is looking for her tenant, a younger woman who apparently sat for her dog and acted as her companion, and who has driven off with the client's car and not sent word back as to where she is. Carlotta is for a while baffled by this.<br />When things begin to sort themselves out, the book is interesting and the solution satisfying and intelligent. It does take the story a while to get going though (hence only four stars) and there are perhaps one too many coincidences for me. I did enjoy the story, though, and would recommend it.	2004-03-09
771761:US	52850806	RN537FBKVHAS8	0425190730	431507905	Twelve Mile Limit (A Doc Ford Novel)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Latest novel in the Doc Ford series	Dr. Marion &quot;Doc&quot; Ford is a marine biologist who lives in a house on stilts, off the west coast of Florida, and makes a living harvesting and supplying labs and schools with ocean wildlife local to the area. However, he has a dark past, having worked as one of the &quot;Negotiators,&quot; a shadowy organization that works for the U.S. Government. The Negotiators have a talk with people who are being unreasonable, and make them see the error of their ways. Typically, the individual involved is an international drug kingpin who won't see the error of his ways and donate all of his loot to charity, and the solution is killing him. Ford has left all of that behind because it bothered his conscience.<br />In this novel, a close friend and employee of Ford has been lost at sea. One of the three people on the boat with her was rescued, and provides an account of what happened, but no matter how hard the Coast Guard looks, the other three companions aren't found. When Ford is approached by the survivor, and told that there was a boat that perhaps picked up the other survivors, he uses his connections with people in the government to investigate, and dives into an adventure to rescue his friend.<br />I enjoyed this book, and especially enjoy the way the author makes things interesting and suspenseful without having a blazing shootout every thirty pages (though those are fun, too). Ford is almost disdainful of guns, and those who use them, but not stupid enough to walk into a gunfight carrying a knife or something. There's also a nice subplot involving an environmentalist vs. fisherman battle that sounds so real and familiar that it must either be true or based on truth. I really enjoyed this book.	2004-02-24
778683:US	52850806	R2SQIHMF2ZK2N8	0743456378	607521541	The Killing Kind: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Less gunfire, more terrifying anyway	The first two Charlier Parker novels, by Irish journalist John Connolly, were violent and very disturbing, pocked with gunfire and dead bodies, and visions of horrors from the afterlife. Parker himself is a strange, tortured soul, who can see those who have been killed violently, so that he can't ignore them and return to his quiet life. This third Parker book is even nastier in some ways: the author has managed to make things even more sinister by making the violence more dramatic, more creepy, more hidden.<br />In this installment, Parker's relegated himself to watching wayward husbands and doing boring industrial security work. He imagines that his presence somehow makes violent people worse, or perhaps brings them out of the woodwork. He's patched up his relationship with Rachel and made peace with the world, and now is trying to make ends meet without killing anyone. This reverie is disturbed by Jack Mercier, a retired senator who is wealthy and wishes to hire Parker to investigate a murder. Initially reluctant, Parker becomes engrossed in the case and those who quickly become suspects, largely a strange, reclusive cult of religious fanatics called The Fellowship. They appear outrageous and silly, not particularly dangerous if repugnant in their beliefs (which range from anti-abortion to anti-semitism) and somewhat nuts. Parker suspects something deeper, and soon discovers that he's right.<br />The book travels from there, with a plethora of wonderful characters, from a mob boss to a very different porn producer to a Jewish assassin with no face to a bad guy with a strange fascination for spiders. All are drawn interestingly, with wonderful dialog and mannerisms, and prose that makes you think this might even be poetry. <br />I enjoyed the first two Charlier Parker novels a great deal. This third one isn't anywhere near as violent and bloody as the first two, but given the haunting images that the author paints as he writes his books, the shootouts aren't really needed. Instead, the murky atmosphere almost makes this into a Clive Barker novel, without the supernatural nasties. Instead, your skin crawls from spiders and strange characters who've been killing for decades. For me that's more affecting, not less.	2004-02-19
783881:US	52850806	R3KDGR7NY50HTN	0446611611	817062475	City of Bones (Harry Bosch)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Interesting conclusion (sort of) to the series	Michael Connelly has been doing these Harry Bosch novels for some years now. Bosch is the stereotypical detective, and if anything that's always been my one main objection to him: he's a bit too much of a stereotype, right down to the jazz on the stereo, the chain-smoking (though he did finally quit), the casual attitude towards superiors, and the dogged determination to clear every one of his cases.<br />The current book follows Bosch and his partner, Jerry Edgar, as they look into what they at first imagine is a false alarm. A man walking his dog in the Hollywood Hills has let the dog run wild, and the pooch returned with a bone in his mouth, which the man thinks is human. This happens regularly, and the bone is usually from an animal, but this time the dog's owner happens to be a retired doctor, and he knows what he's talking about: it's human. Soon Harry and Jerry are working a twenty-year-old homicide, apparently a runaway who was killed, for what reason they don't know. They can't even make an identification. Then it turns out there's a convicted child molester on the street, and things begin to go sideways and get ugly at the same time.<br />Connelly has this sort of thing downpat now. The mystery's not the most surprising one he's done, and the plot is somewhat meandering, but the characterization of Bosch is well-done, and the other characters are interesting too. There are several strange twists in the plot, things that you weren't expecting, all of which aren't directly connected to the mystery of who killed the kid. The ending, which I won't reveal (though I guessed what was coming), is something of a mystery too, though the preview of his next book in the back told me where he was going to take things.<br />Anyway, I enjoyed this book, and would recommend it, though of course anyone reading something like this should first read some of the earlier books, so that they get some background on the characters in the story.	2004-02-16
791524:US	52850806	RPJ2VMYD933PO	0515133078	58080034	Never Dream of Dying	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Not Ian Fleming, but oh well...	This is the first of these pastiches of the old James Bond series that I have read. I will confess that I read Fleming many years ago (I think I was in high school) and enjoyed some of the earlier John Gardner books, frankly, more than I enjoyed Fleming. Later I became annoyed with Gardner somewhat, though he did attempt to paper over some of the sillier scenes in the later movies filmed while he was doing the writing. Raymond Benson is the latest contestant in the continuing saga of someone trying to write a book continuing a character that someone else created.<br />Benson's writing is only mediocre, but of course the plot is what's important. All of the typical elements of a James Bond novel are here: a criminal mastermind who's trying to do horrible things, a weaker sidekick who's been maneuvered into cooperating, a beautiful woman caught up in things who's unsuspecting, and of course exotic locales and sophisticated entertainments like fancy restaurants and gambling in Monte Carlo.<br />Benson handles all of this reasonably well, though as I said the writing's only so-so. I enjoyed the book reasonably well, and would recommend it to someone looking for mindless beach entertainment or something to read on a plane while travelling somewhere.	2004-02-10
802967:US	52850806	R2EP01IHKITEDG	0141000023	284000734	The Gates of the Alamo	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Not your father's Battle of the Alamo	All history is subject to interpretation, and reinterpretation. Historical fiction is more amorphous than that: not only is it reinterpreted when the evidence requires it, it's also reinvented when our view of things changes. Fifty or a hundred years ago, the Alamo was defended by universally brave and hardy characters who only wanted freedom for themselves, and they were mercilessly slaughtered by the evil Santa Ana, for no good reason other than that he was bloodthirsty and vicious. Think Disney movie, with John Wayne playing Davy Crockett, dying heroically.<br />Things change, though, and in recent years, the legend of the Alamo has changed somewhat. In some ways, this makes the defenders of the place more heroic: we're much more aware now of the horrors of war than we were in the fifties. On the other hand, the issues that led to the Texas War of Independance are a great deal murkier now than they were back then. The leaders at the battle itself have been revealed elsewhere to be less-than-lily-white, and this of course leads you to question everything else.<br />The present novel is a retelling of the story of this battle, primarily from the point of view of several fictional characters who interact with the various historical personages who really participated in the events. The narrative follows five main characters: the widow innkeeper Mary Mott, and her teenaged son Terrell, a friend of theirs, a botanist named Edwin McGowan, and a pair of Mexican soldiers, a sergeant named Blas and an officer named Telesforo. The novel begins with a very elderly Terrell, late mayor of San Antonio and local hero, attending a celebration of the anniversary of the battle in 1911.<br />The narratives of the Americans involved in the battle are interesting, for the most part, and provide most of the strength for the book. Following Edwin MacGowan and his dog Professor, and Mary and Terrell, is fun, and the descriptions of the other men involved, Crockett (always &quot;David&quot; in the narrative, &quot;Davy&quot; was an invention of the newspapers), Bowie, Travis, and Sam Houston, come across reasonably well, though the author apparently doesn't think much of Houston. There are other, less well-known characters from history, including Travis' slave, a manservant named Joe. The author spends a good deal of time dealing with Joe's dilemma, fighting for &quot;freedom&quot; when Mexico has outlawed slavery. Joe of course wonders if Mexico wins, will he be free, and his eventual decision is interesting.<br />I enjoyed this book, though it was marred by the Mexican half of things. I'm not a racist, I assure you (my wife is half Mexican-American), but the narrative seemed more burdened by the characters than helped by them. The American characters have a connection to the main story and the main historical characters, but Blas (the sergeant) has no connection to any of the other characters in the narrative until the very end of the book and that's only incidental. Telesforo is somewhat more connected to the rest of the plot, but not that much. Also, while there's a considerable build up to the climactic scene, the author seems unsure how to end the book. As a result, after three dozen chapters which are an average of say fifteen pages, there are a bunch of very short ones where he's apparently doing housework, cleaning up after his plot. It's almost as if he got tired of writing, and just concluded things abruptly.<br />While I enjoyed this book, I will agree that the suspense in the plot isn't as strong as it might have been. It's very literary though: the writing is quite good. I agree that it bears comparison with McMurtry, but Harrigan at least pays some attention to history (I've become rather annoyed with McMurtry's indifference to even making events vaguely resemble historical fact) and the book is much the better for it. My comparison would be to Thomas Flanagan's fine novel, The Year of the French. It's not quite as good as Flanagan, but it's still pretty good, and readable.	2004-02-01
808133:US	52850806	R3LNE3U11E308C	074341022X	229095796	Dark Hollow: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Slightly less bloody than his previous effort	Dark Hollow is the second book in a series of detective novels following a particularly interesting character, Charlie \\"Bird\\" Parker. Parker's an ex-cop whose wife and daughter were horribly killed. He left the department as a result, and after flirting with alcoholism gave up the bottle. In the aftermath of that, he became a private detective, and these first two books describe what came of that, so far.<br />In this particular story, Parker has moved to his ancestral Maine to live, trying to get away from the city. He's asked by a friend to find her ex-husband, and see if he will cough up some child support, but the money that the ex gives Parker turns out to be connected to a bizarre three-way shootout on a nearby beach that happened a few days before. Someone wound up with two million dollars that the mob thinks is theirs, and they're not going to stop looking for it. Meanwhile, the ex-wife and her toddler son are killed in a bizarre fashion, a pair of crazed hit men show up bent on some strange sort of revenge against Parker, and in the background somewhere there's a ghost from the past, a killer half-spoken of, half unseen for more than thirty years. Add to this mix Parker's two friends, ex-burglar Angel and his gay lover semi-retired hitman Louis, and an old girlfriend of Bird's, and that's just the beginning of the book.<br />Connolly apparently has this as a pattern or style now. These books have murky, dark plots, laden with atmosphere. I think he could make Hawaii look dark and forbidding if he wrote something set there. There's connections to crimes past, interesting characters intermingled in a bewilderingly complex plot, snappy dialog, and a body count that makes the Battle of Stalingrad look like a tea party. I enjoy this sort of thing, and enjoyed this book a great deal. Be warned though: enter at your own risk.	2004-01-28
809894:US	52850806	R1XGPA0BZJ2ZIX	0891415297	728742889	Thunder on Dnepr: Zhukov-Stalin and the Defeat of Hitler's Blitzkrieg	Books	3	26	27	N	N	Stalin knew Hitler was coming?	There's an old saw about the aftermath of the battle of Gettysburg. Supposedly, some years after the battle, George Pickett was asked why his famous charge had failed. The questioner was no doubt expecting one of the stereotypical Virginian answers: lack of proper artillery support, lack of support from soldiers from other states, etc. Instead, Pickett responded that he thought the Union army had something to do with it.<br />Much the same debate goes on in the analysis of the early days of the German army in its campaign in the Soviet Union. Most of the discussion of what occurred and why is focused on the Wehrmacht and their choices, what objectives they strove for, which units were sent where, things like that. Relatively little discussion is directed towards the Soviets, who are seen as helpless, inert automatons, terrified of doing anything that would enrage Stalin. Bryan Fugate has been directly challenging this view of things for some years now, starting with his book Operation Barbarossa, and this current book is a further entry in his campaign.<br />Operation Barbarossa concluded that Stalin and the Soviet high command knew that Hitler was going to attack in the summer of 1941, and were at least somewhat prepared for the attack. The problem with that book was the lack of evidence proving his point. This current book makes pretty much the same argument, but with better (though still not completely convincing) evidence. Since the publication of his first book, Fugate has apparently come across recently-opened archives in the Soviet Union which seem to prove his point, notably the accounts of three wargames held by the Stavka in early 1941. The first two games are apparently well-documented, while the third is very mysterious and murky. Fugate believes that the third game predicted that the Germans would penetrate far into the interior of the Soviet Union, and showed that it would be wise for the Soviets to station a strong army behind the Pripyet Marshes where it could attack the southern flank of such an army as it advanced towards Moscow. Near as I can tell, co-author Dvoretsky helped Fugate find his evidence, and perhaps helped with the writing and analysis of this book also.<br />This supposition makes up the first quarter or third of the book, and the rest of the text discusses how the author sees Army Group Center's advance into the Soviet Union in 1941. Most of the narrative follows Guderian's Panzer Group and Fugate's fabled 21st Army as they fight in the southern region of Army Group Center's sector of the front. Zhukov, Fugate and Dvoretsky's hero, comes in for a considerable amount of praise as he supposedly makes few if any mistakes (while watching the collapse of the Soviet army) and outwits the Germans time after time. Stalin, even, turns out to be if not exactly a master strategist, then certainly more clever than Hitler.<br />The difficulty with all of this is that the authors' evidence for what they're saying is very thin to say the least. The supposed February wargame that predicted the campaign that summer was apparently kept so secret that no records of it have survived, except for some partial material that *may* relate to it which was captured by the Germans. Everything else is supposition and guesswork. Similarly, when it comes to the actual campaigns involved, the author attributes motive and intent to the various personalities involved, often with thin evidence, at best. For whatever reason, while he's sometimes hard on the Soviets, he's very tough on the Germans, especially Guderian, who comes off as a preening fool.<br />There is some value to this book in that the authors' analysis of why the campaign went the way it did (the actual causes on the battlefied, not the Generals' intentions) is rather good, and intelligent. Fugate and Dvoretsky make a plausible case for their supposition, but unfortunately supposition it must remain, at least until further archives are opened which prove one wayor the other if these things happened, or what their affect was.<br />One further note. The prose here is very stilted and dry, and the books is pretty heavy sledding as a reading experience. Fugate is a historian (he has a doctorate from a university, in German and Russian military history) and Dvoretsky is a Russian soldier. I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone unless they already know a great deal about the Eastern Front in World War II, and want to know more about the campaign in 1941.	2004-01-27
815868:US	52850806	R1KKMG4W7CUEIE	006051079X	975217396	Honor's Kingdom (Abel Jones Mysteries)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Series gets better and better	Owen Parry is on the verge of national treasure status, and he's only written four books. He writes detective novels, but of a new genre: historical novels that meld the traditional characteristics of a private eye narrative with the background of the American Civil War. There are several of these series, but this one is pretty unique: the main character/narrator is a Welsh transplant who's a veteran of Queen Victoria's army and its wars in India. Abel Jones was a sergeant in the British army, but finally quit and swore never to kill again. He married his childhood sweetheart, and immigrated to America, where he stepped right into the start of the Civil War. A deeply religious man, he's an ardent abolitionist (as many religious people were) and so he joined the U.S. Volunteers, recieving the rank of Major in recognition of his ability to discipline and train recruits. He was, however, wounded at the First Battle of Bull Run, and though he can walk he'll never run again, so he can't return to service in the field. Instead, he's an investigator for the army, looking into various things that defy definition, and trying to learn the skill of investigation on the fly.<br />In this, the fourth entry in the series, Jones is sent to England to assist the U.S. Ambassador. The ambassador has a difficult assignment for him: the Confederates have a warship under construction in Liverpool, and if it's allowed to reach the sea it could ravage the American merchant marine and cause untold damage. The British are claiming not to know the purpose of the ship, and when Jones arrives in Britain, the first thing that greets him is the death of another American agent who was working on the same project, trying to keep the Confederate ship out of the water. He's been murdered and stuffed in a basket of eels, and two of his colleagues have been killed also. Jones didn't even bring his revolver: his prospects of survival don't look good.<br />But Abel Jones is a dangerous man when his blood is up. He's not much of a detective (though he's getting better, and seems to be able to follow a simple clue doggedly) but he's stubborn and hard to kill, and an interesting guide to the nineteenth century world, in this case England and Scotland. Since he's a Methodist from a century and a half ago, he has strange (by modern standards, anyway) morals, such as an aversion to stage plays (though he's read Shakespeare) and novels...for a while anyway. Parry puts various historical cameos into the story, from Trollope to Whistler to Disraeli, and knits the whole thing together really well.<br />I enjoyed this book a great deal, and I would recommend it a great deal. As I've said before, this is the best series of historical novels, bar none, since George MacDonald Fraser started the Flashman series.	2004-01-22
821407:US	52850806	RILZ909OBH23B	0521599415	282346380	The Hard Hand of War	Books	4	22	25	N	N	For Specialists Only!	This is a conversion of the author's graduate thesis, composed while he was a student at The Ohio State University. The subject of the study is evident in the subtitle of the book: Union Military Policy toward Southern Civilians 1861-1865. The central theme of the book is that the policy mentioned evolved over time, getting more and more harsh with the civilians that the army encountered. The evolution, however, didn't go nearly as far as some later alleged, and the supposed depredations of the Union army in the various Southern states in the last year of the war are, as far as the author is concerned, mostly exaggerations.<br />This is a good overview of the subject, and the author goes over things with a good analytical eye. I disagree with the other reviewer, who thinks that he's unfairly easy on the Union soldiers who foraged &quot;liberally&quot; during the latter part of the Civil War. I did notice one shortcoming of the book's central argument: the author went over the motivation for attacking things like houses in retaliation for ambushes and attacks against Union troops, but overlooked the possibility that the troops themselves needed to feel that they were somehow retaliating for being attacked. Burning down a house, even if it had no effect on the Southerners who ambushed them, did serve the purpose of making the Union soldiers think that they were doing *something*.<br />This is a thesis, reworked as a book. It's sprinkled with footnotes, and written in a scholarly, dry tone. The result is a lot of information, with interesting and well-reasoned arguments stemming from them, written in rather wooden prose that's not very easy to read. I would recommend this book to hard core Civil War buffs who want to know more about the subject, but only to them.	2004-01-18
825012:US	52850806	R3URHL2RDP2CS4	067102731X	705687442	Every Dead Thing: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Every Dead Thing---and a lot of things die!	This is one heck of a first novel. Charlie Parker (\\"Bird\\" to his friends) is a police detective who's lost his wife and daughter to a particularly horrific serial killer who not only murders them, but slices off their faces. Since he was drinking at the corner tavern at the time, he feels guilty, crawls into a bottle, and loses his job. Some months later, having crawled out of said bottle, he agrees to take on work as an investigator to make ends meet. His first case involves finding a rich boy's girlfriend, but when he looks, he finds (of course) much more than he expected to.<br />This novel has everything in it that you can imagine or want in a crime novel. The killers are gory and vicious, there are numerous shootouts and chases, the women are beautiful but reluctant, heck he even has a (sort of) pair of gay role models. OK, so they're a retired hit man and a retired thief, but they dress well and have a hip repartee going that's a great deal of fun. The novel is very long (460+ pages, with a rather small font) and the action is broken up with long, almost poetically descriptive passages, but it moves along nicely. I will agree with the one guy who said that things get complex. There are so many characters and murders and plot threads that at times you almost wish he'd provided a cast of characters or something.<br />All in all, though, I enjoyed the book and would recommend it to others. The one real proviso is the goriness: be aware going in, this isn't a pretty book.	2004-01-15
832838:US	52850806	R255BMXSWTZ130	155972028X	455032455	Triple Cross: Israel, the Atomic Bomb and the Man Who Spilled the Secrets	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting story---the devil is in the details	Mordechai Vanunu was a technician at the Dimona Nuclear Weapons facility in the mid-1980s. Dimona officially was a nuclear power plant providing power to southern Israel, but in reality was manufacturing atomic bombs. Vanunu became disillusioned with Israeli policy with regards to the bombs, and a whole list of other things with regards to Israel, and left the country. He lived in Australia for a while, and wound up contacting a British newspaper, telling his story of working in a nuclear arms manufacturing facility. He backed up his story with pictures he'd taken while he worked there with a camera he'd smuggled into the facility.<br />Then he was kidnapped and smuggled back to Israel, where an only nominally fair trial was held and he was sentenced to 18 years in prison. He was incarcerated in a prison with few amenities and little contact with the outside world.<br />This book was written soon after Vanunu was convicted. Toscano was a Jerusalem-based American reporter for a while, and he covers the ground swiftly and well. Vanunu's motives, actions while he was in Australia and Britain, and the trial itself, are recounted clearly and carefully, but painlessly. The prose is a bit pedestrian, and of course given that Toscano is a journalist, the chapters are short, as if he can't hold a thought for long. That's OK, though, it makes for a quick read. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the topic.	2004-01-10
833380:US	52850806	R3DIMEFGPJNBXF	185367446X	999618445	Rising Sun Victorious	Books	4	5	6	N	N	10 Battles the Japanese might have won	Alternative history is all the rage these days, largely fueled by Harry Turtledove's books supposing a Confederate victory in the Civil War. The present book is a more scholarly collection of essays on the premise of the Japanese winning parts of the Second World War that they actually lost.<br />The format of the book is interesting. Each chapter (there are ten altogether) is a look at a different part of the War in the Pacific, and supposes that the Japanese somehow did better in that portion of the war than they actually did. The first interesting part of this is that just because the authors of the various scenarios in the book have the Japanese win another battle doesn't mean that they're allowed to win the whole conflict. Instead, the authors seem more interested in what effect the Japanese victory would have on the course of the war. The individual scenarios examine everything from possible Japanese attacks on Siberia, California, India, and Australia, all around to the revelation that their codes were broken, and defeats in the battles of Leyte Gulf or even the invasion of Japan itself.<br />While the idea for each scenario is similar, the format of the articles differs somewhat from one to the next. The last one, for instance, purports to be a recounting of a conference at the Naval War College where various admirals and generals discuss what went wrong with the invasion of Japan. Amusingly, each of the authors provides footnotes to his essay, and some of them are concocted for the essay itself. Japanese authors who actually wrote books about their participation in the Japanese defeat instead write about their victory. It's rather amusing.<br />I enjoyed this book a great deal. I will agree to an extent with the reviewers who complained about the technical nature of the narrative. I will also point out however that the book doesn't pretend to be anything other than an alternative *history*. It's not Turtledove, and no one said it was. Great fun if you're into military history.	2004-01-10
837307:US	52850806	R1X8J8H9M4M9D6	0809496011	732884158	Sagittarius rising (Wings of war)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Amazing story from the early years of flight	The English are a wonderfully fascinating race. You learn about the characters that people their recent history, and you wonder how they ever won a war, let alone participate in the defeat of Germany twice. Their soldiers seem somewhat daffy and confused, not to say muddled, and they can't design a good tank or airplane (with a few exceptions) to save their lives. One thing they can do, however, is write books about their experiences afterwards. From Lawrence of Arabia to Robert Graves to Stanley Moss and Cecil Lewis, these accounts are invariably intelligently written and almost poetic in their content.<br />Cecil Lewis lived a very long and full life. He was still around to write the forward for the 50th anniversary edition of his 1936 memoir of his World War I service, the present volume titled Sagittarius Rising. He survived until 1997 (when he was 98) living in the Meditterranean. However, his early life was fraught with danger, and the odds were against him surviving that long. He joined the Royal Flying Corps just short of 17 in 1915, and served through two years of combat on the Western front. He piloted a Morane Parasol (a type of plane, so called because it looked like a parasol from the side) as an observation plane over the Battle of the Somme, then was part of Albert Ball's squadron of SE5's during 1917, and was there when Ball was killed. He then served in a squadron defending Britain from German bombers, flying a Sopwith Camel, and transferred back to France again, just as the war ended, flying that same Camel.<br />The book then does lose focus slightly, as the author has determined to tell you of his experiences flying. He flew planes (intermittently) for several years after the war, mostly in the Far East, where he taught Chinese pilots how to pilot airplanes. Between language problems and the lack of a need for airplane service in China, the whole project was a failure, and he returned home at the end of 1921 and retired from flying airplanes.<br/>My edition of this book is from the Folio Society, and came with some pencil drawings of the air war that were appropriate. It also included a forward that filled you in on the author's life after the book a little bit (he was in the RAF during WW2, and commanded an airbase in England). I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the First World War or aviation.	2004-01-07
838404:US	52850806	R1K649I9R1K0IZ	0304352640	708881656	The Art of War: War and Military Thought	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A brief overview of Military thought	Martin van Creveld is one of the better military historians of the last half-century or so. He writes clearly and intelligently, and produces books that are timely and innovative. He has at times gotten himself into controversies with various other authors over his interpretations of events, but he does at least think innovatively and ananlytically. If he has a weakness as a writer, it's that he's too scholarly for the general public, and his ideas are therefore somewhat inaccessible.<br />The present volume is an attempt at an overview of the progress of military theory, as opposed to the evolution of warfare itself. It is structured, therefore, as a review of each work on warfare, one after the other in turn. As another reviewer noted, this leads to the weird phenomenon of a book about warfare (indirectly anyway) which jumps right over both World Wars without a blink. The author also attempts to keep to his subjects (the works themselves) and as a result gives the lives of the writers short shrift, at some points. Also he avoids discussing several controversies much (notably the question of how much influence Liddell Hart *really* had on the German Blitzkrieg) claiming that they've been dealt with elsewhere. This is no doubt true, but since this is supposed to be an introductory volume on the subject, saying this without even directing the reader to another volume is a bit annoying.<br />Taking all of the above into consideration, I enjoyed this book a great deal. Why not five stars then? Well the book is peppered with illustrations that are only marginally connected to the text of the book. Some of them are portraits of military thinkers or generals, and are reasonably worthwhile, though one that is supposed to be Sherman looks more like Grant. But also there are many elaborate maps (a standout feature of the Cassell History of Warfare series) and here they have nothing to do with the text and are superfluous. The only thing they do is take up space. The last one, for instance, depicts the war in Bosnia, and that's not even mentioned in the text at all, really. So I enjoyed the book, but I would hope they would rerelease it as a monograph without the useless pretty pictures.	2004-01-06
839417:US	52850806	R3DPVX6KRK45VJ	0451209443	786063504	Sphere of Influence	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A VERY standard conspiracy novel	This is the third or fourth novel Kyle Mills has written with Mark Beamon as a main character. Mark's the best investigator in FBI history (everyone says so, about every fifty pages in this book) but he's been kicked up stairs to Special Agent in Charge in Phoenix. He makes a lousy supervisor, and is getting a review of his performance which is horrible, and will lead to his reassignment. One of his friends from Washington has a problem: she's investigating a case of terrorism in which some Al Quaeda extremists have smuggled a missile into the U.S. and are threatening to use it. She requests Beamon's help with an undercover investigation, and the result is that Beamon becomes Nicolai, a shadowy character who's part assassin and part organized crime kingpin. Another FBI agent is killed, and Beamon becomes Nicolai for more than a minute, and stays undercover, looking for who ordered his partner's death.<br />This is a pretty formulaic novel. It's very well-written, but the plot is so predictable and the villains are very easily identified. As a result, I didn't enjoy it as much as I might. I was wondering how he was going to end the story, but I will confess that again the ending was predictable and rather formulaic. Good writing, but lousy plot.	2004-01-06
851095:US	52850806	R9YL53LYFKP7M	046509838X	545172516	Not Out Of Africa: How ""Afrocentrism"" Became An Excuse To Teach Myth As History (New Republic Book)	Books	4	35	46	N	N	Preaching to the choir, yelling at the wall	Not out of Africa is not exactly a book that stands on its own. You have to know the basic premise of the books this one is responding to, first. And second you have to have some knowledge of Ancient History to interpret what's said and assimilate the arguments and their validity. Since this book is a response to the Afrocentrist movement, the arguments it makes are less important in some ways than who makes those arguments, and their supposed motives.<br />Afrocentrism is the name for the theory that Greek civilization, the basis for all Western thought and culture, was stolen by various philosophers from Ancient Egypt. The Egyptians in turn are revealed to be part of \\"Black Africa\\" and therefore Africa is the real \\"cradle of civilization\\" and Greek philosophy is merely a fraud.<br />It shouldn't surprise anyone to know that this would be a divisive argument with a good deal of vituperative arguments between the two sides. The author of this book, Mary Lefkowitz, makes the mistake of marshalling too many facts in support of her arguments, and essentially demolishing each point of the Afrocentrist theory. Since the critics can't refute her arguments, they are left with attacking her, questioning her motives, and even defaming her heritage. This of course does nothing in terms of the actual debate, but it does serve to obscure the facts and muddy the waters, so those who don't know anything about the facts of the issue will be confused.<br />Lefkowitz makes her points clearly and concisely, and points out some real howlers in the middle of the Afrocentrist argument. For instance, Aristotle couldn't have stolen his eyes from the Library at Alexandria, because he never visited Egypt and died before the library itself was founded. One interesting portion of Lefkowitz's argument is that much of the Afrocentrist theory originates in the mystical theories behind Freemasonry, the members of that organization apparently believing that their rites descend from ancient Egyptian rituals.<br />The problem with a book like this is simple. Those who start the book suspicious of the Afrocentrist argument will probably agree with most of what's written here. Those who start as Afrocentrists themselves will regard the death of Aristotle before the founding of the Library of Alexandria a \\"detail\\" that can be explained away by calling the author a racist. This sort of argument goes on way too long.	2003-12-28
851424:US	52850806	R2LATDFMKZNZD5	0826320864	396793161	Cities of Gold: A Journey Across the American Southwest	Books	4	14	16	N	N	In Coronado's footsteps	Douglas Preston and his friend Walter Nelson are apparently a pair of adventurers. Preston, a writer for various magazines, got the idea to ride across the Southwest and follow in the footsteps of Coronado, the conquistador who passed through those lands in the 1540s. The two men bought horses, saddles and gear, hired a wrangler they thought knew something about horses, and set off on a journey of close to a thousand miles across the American desert.<br />The path they took wanders somewhat, and they learned some interesting things. In some spots, the route that Coronado took, as far as the history books are concerned, is completely impossible. They met Indians from various tribes, cowboys, and other interesting inhabitants of the countryside, and had numerous difficulties, all recounted with Preston's self-deprecating wit. The wrangler left them a third of the way through the journey, they had repeated problems with their horses (on one occasion they lost them all, no laughing matter in the middle of the desert), and had to deal with every sort of problem from lack of water to getting across the city of Albequerque with a pair of horses.<br />Preston's a reasonably skilled writer. The narrative wanders a bit, as did the course of the author's journey. At times, the digressions seem a bit forced and annoying, or alternatively you want to hear more about this or that tribe or family of cowboys or ghost town or whatever. This back and forth effect can be somewhat disconcerting. Even so, I enjoyed the book and would recommend it.	2003-12-28
855078:US	52850806	R1A5F9EIDBD7M9	1931082030	620465402	Complete Novels: The Heart is a Lonely Hunter/Reflections in a Golden Eye/The Ballad of the Sad Cafe/The Member of the Wedding/The Clock Without Hands (Library of America)	Books	5	59	62	N	N	The American Jane Austen?	I have read many novels by many writers, both American and foreign, but it's been a good long while since I've read something so penetrating and perceptive as Carson McCuller's first and last novels. The characters in the books, their lives and personalities, are so well thought-out and delineated that you have to wonder how a woman of 23 could put something like this together. Anyway, below is a synopsis of each story in this volume.<br />The Heart is a Lonely Hunter is the longest of Carson McCullers' novels, and the first. She wrote it in the late `30s, and published it in 1940, when she was 23. It's an incredible first novel, and amazingly prescient and wise for someone of her age, era, and upbringing. The story revolves around a deaf mute, John Singer, who works engraving silverware in a small city in the South somewhere. He has only one friend in the world, another deaf mute who works for his cousin, making candy. As the story begins the candymaker (named Antanopolous) is committed to an asylum, and Singer moves from the home they shared, and slowly begins to acquire a circle of other friends. Principle in this circle are four people: Mick, the daughter of his landlords at the rooming house he lives in; Biff, who runs the diner where he takes his meals; Blount, another denizen of the diner, who wishes to unionize the local mill-workers; and Dr.Copeland, a black man who rages against the injustice of white society towards him and his race. The heart of the story is a character study of these five people, with alternating chapters following the one and then the other. Each is intelligent, in his or her own way, and each has special insights into the world around them. How these characters interact, and the relationships between them and the rest of the world, make the heart of the story and most of the book.<br />Reflections in a Golden Eye is a shorter story, one of McCullers' novels that is really more of a novella. The plot revolves around a love triangle that develops between two officers on an Army base, and the wife of one of them. There's also a strange, solitary, enigmatic private who tends the horses on the base, and he interacts with the other characters. Frankly, I didn't enjoy this story as much as The Heart is a Lonely Hunter. The characters weren't anywhere near as believable, and their motivations weren't as transparent or understandable. The ending was also somewhat predictable. <br />The Ballad of the Sad Caf is the shortest of McCullers' novels or novellas, weighing in at 60 pages. It's the story of a strange, unpredictable relationship between the standoffish businesswoman who dominates the culture of a small town, and a dwarf hunchback who shows up one day claiming to be her long-lost nephew. How the two of them interact in the story is strange, to say the least, and not wholly explained in the story. This creates an enigmatic atmosphere, and as the story progresses and it becomes obvious we're not going to receive an explanation of things, you find yourself re-reading passages looking for clues as to motivations. I enjoyed this story much more than Reflections in a Golden Eye, perhaps almost as much as The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.<br />The Member of the Wedding is perhaps McCullers' most strange work. The heart of the book is built around the fantastic intentions and beliefs of a twelve-year-old girl. In the first portion of the book, she's known as Frankie. Later, when she gets the idea she's going to leave with her older brother on his honeymoon, she changes her name to F. Jasmine, and the book follows that convention. Once it develops that she can't go with the brother and his new bride (you knew this was going to happen) she becomes Frances. There isn't much of a plot other than this girl fantasizing about all of the things she's going to be or do, and looking down her nose at all the common people who surround her, who she thinks are beneath her.<br />Clock Without Hands is the best of McCullers' books other than The Heart is a Lonely Hunter. I now wonder if the length of the books had something to do with whether I liked them or not. She seems to have been able, in the longer books, to build her characters more, and have more plot twists. Clock Without Hands is about a dying pharmacist in a small Georgia town, and the events surrounding his death, but it really turns out to be more about one of his acquaintances, a senile old judge who imagines himself a great leader of the opposition to the desegregation movement. The episodes of the Civil Rights movement, as McCullers recreates them, become at times farcical and silly, and the resistance to the movement altogether silly and irrational. <br />Library of America volumes are wonderful to hold and read, and this is no exception. The type is clear, the book handy to hold or slip into a pocket. Given McCullers' stature as a writer, I think I'm going to value this book for a good long while.	2003-12-24
858853:US	52850806	R5K1WW6B1Q39V	042518823X	336127634	The Ironclad Alibi (Harrison Raines)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	More espionage than mystery	Our hero Harrison Raines (from Murder at Manassass and A Killing at Ball's Bluff) returns in a third installment, The Ironclad Alibi. Raines is a captain in the U.S. Secret Service whose father and brother serve in the Confederate army. In this installment, he's sent into the Confederate capitol to learn what he can about the &quot;Monster.&quot; This turns out to be C.S.S. Virginia, the ironclad that almost broke the blockade around Virginia when it was first introduced in 1862.<br />Raines, however, arrives in Richmond and is almost immediately accosted by an old lover. When he rebuffs her (he loves an actress who is performing opposite John Wilkes Booth) she leaves, and later he finds her hanging from the ceiling in his room, naked. When Raines himself can provide an alibi (he was havning dinner with Confederate president Jefferson Davis at the time) the authorities arrest his erstwhile slave, Caesar Augustus, and announce that they will hang him soon.<br />Much of the rest of the plot consists of Raines running around Richmond frantically waving papers and passes he has from Robert E. Lee and Jefferson Davis, trying to get Caesar Augustus freed or at least reprieved. There is a mystery (how did the hanged woman come to be in Raines room, and why?) but it's only intermittently dealt with. And of course the spying on the Confederate ironclad, though it's the reason for his presence in Richmond, is only briefly an issue.<br />There are some good points to the book. Elizabeth &quot;Crazy Bet&quot; van Lew gets a good cameo (she was a real historical figure, an abolitionist who lived out the war in Richmond and was the Union's most successful spy) and both Jefferson Davis and Robert E. Lee make brief appearances, along with several other minor characters of the Civil War. The plot, however, is somewhat obscure and not that entertaining. I did enjoy the atmosphere, and when the author gets to the actual battle of Hampton Roads, the action speeds up. I would recommendthis book to Civil War buffs more than mystery fans.	2003-12-20
862307:US	52850806	RMN07037PXV6X	0618057064	329852487	Controversies and Commanders: Dispatches from the Army of the Potomac	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Essays on the Army of the Potomac	Stephen W. Sears is one of the better-known Civil War Historians alive. A former editor of American Heritage, he's been writing books on the Civil War for about 20 years now, and has concentrated almost exclusively on the Army of the Potomac, and its nemesis the Army of Northern Virginia. This volume contains ten essays ostensibly on the Army of the Potomac, though one (the Lost Order essay) is really about Lee's army.<br />The essays are topical rather than combat-oriented. There are two discussions of a particular character's treatment by historians: in one installment, Sears insists that McClellan deserves the bad reputation he's gotten from historians, in another he carefully dissects Hooker's fall at Chancellorsville, and decides he's been unfairly condemned by his colleagues. Several other essays deal with incidents (the Dahlgren Raid, the crisis between 2nd Manassas and Antietam). Two essays are about generals who were wronged by their superiors: Charles Stone as a result of Ball's Bluff, Gouvernor Warren at Five Forks. One of the essays is a straight mini-biography, of Dan Sickles, the colorful character who shot his wife's lover and went on to be a Civil War hero, at least in the newspapers. One deals with an unsolved mystery, that of the fabled lost order at Antietam.<br />Most of these essays are valuable and interesting. I only had objection to one: Sears accepts without much discussion that the famed Dahlgren orders (calling for Richmond to be burned and the Confederate leadership to be murdered) are authentic. Without going into details, I've always found this explanation to be improbable in the extreme. Sears seems to dislike Secretary of War Edwin Stanton, and places most of the blame for the plot on his shoulders.<br />Other than that, the history here is to my mind impeccable, and the writing is clear and readable throughout. I enjoyed this book, and would recommend it to all Civil War buffs.	2003-12-17
871138:US	52850806	R2VMROP2X199IU	0451410998	499017825	The Big Gamble	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Kerney &amp; Son	Michael McGarrity has been writing these Kevin Kerney novels for some time now, with the main character, a New Mexico cop, shifting between jobs as the series progresses. For a while he was essentially a private eye, and for a while he was a state cop; now he's the chief of police of Santa Fe. In the last book he found out that he's also a father, by way of a soap opera stype revelation that an old girlfriend had become pregnant by him but never told him. The girlfriend was a Mescalero Apache, and raised their son as an Indian on the reservation. He went into law enforcement, and now works in Lincoln County, a hundred and fifty miles away from his father.<br />In the current installment, there's a fire at an abandoned fruit stand in Lincoln County, and the son, Clayton Istee, is tasked to investigate when bodies are discovered inside the building. One turns out to be a homeless vet who had been gambling and amassed a small roll of cash, while the other's a young woman who's been missing for more than a decade. Since the young woman was from Santa Fe, the investigation into her death is passed on to Kerney, giving him and his son time to converse about life, though they do their best to dodge the subject.<br />I will agree with the one person who complained about the ending: it was a bit anti-climactic. Other than that I enjoyed the book, and think it's one of McGarrity's better books. I would recommend it.	2003-12-09
872822:US	52850806	R9DBB4PTJ2ZGL	0684803542	344292889	Democracy on Trial: The Japanese American Evacuation and Relocation in World War II	Books	2	8	8	N	N	Poor history well-written	This is a very annoying book. Page Smith was a professor of history at (if memory serves correctly) the University of California Santa Cruz. For those who aren't familiar, conservatives are an endangered species up there. That means Smith was a good old-fashioned New Deal Democrat, and of course his hero was FDR. Why he chose to write a book about FDR's darkest hour and the tragedy that stemmed from it I don't know, but he did.<br />Smith was (I understand he's since passed away) an oral historian, weaving accounts of common people into the narrative of whatever history he was retelling. He was a very good writer with a common touch, able to convey the emotions and motives of the various people in his narrative. On the other hand, he could be an only so-so historian, with the history itself, especially the causes and course of various events, getting buried in all the human interest detail.<br />Strangely, that didn't happen here, and this is a worse book for it. Smith has a decidedly skewed perspective on the evacuation of the Japanese-American population during World War II. He recounts that there were citizens descended from all three enemy nations living on the West Coast, tells you that only the Japanese were made to move and put in these relocation camps, and then concludes by insisting that this wasn't done out of racial discriminatory practices. The bald fact is that it couldn't have been anything else: non-citizens who were from enemy nations could have and probably should have been interned, but citizens have a separate set of rights, and no one ever talked of interning (as a for instance) Dwight Eisenhower or Chester Nimitz, let alone Albert Einstein. Fiorello LaGuardia and the Dimaggio brothers weren't relocated, either, and the Dimaggio's father (a resident of Oakland) was still an Italian citizen.<br />Still, the author does do some good, here and there. He makes clear that the story we were told in the '70s and '80s, that all Japanese-Americans were super-loyal to the US, was largely a fabrication (presumably to help with their case when they were trying to get compensation from the Federal government) and that the situation was a great deal more complex than that. There was considerable disloyalty, some of it cause by the relocation to the centers in the interior, some of it predating that and relating to the individual loyalty to the emporer and Japan. This part of the book is, to my mind, the most valuable.<br />Even so, Smith's book is really poorly done. While the writing is skilled and keeps things moving, he seems to feel he must recount every reorganization and personell move in the centers and in the government administration of them. There are also a lot of dry statistics (complete with bad math) and repetitive facts.<br />Lastly, some of the contextual history of the book (recounting the progress of the War itself, and of the political situation at home) is just flat wrong. Smith has Helen Gahagan Douglas fighting for her seat in the House of Representatives against Richard Nixon in 1944 (when Nixon was still in the Navy; their famous campaign against one another occurred in 1950, and was a Senate race), misdates the battle of Guadalcanal, and generally screws up the whole history of the war.<br />I was interested in the book because I knew Smith was going to defend Roosevelt, and in that I wasn't dissappointed. The defense, however, was so lame I didn't really even enjoy reading it. The chapter on the Executive Order enacting the Japanese-American evacuation is titled &quot;The Decision Nobody Made&quot; as if the order sprang out of the ground or something. He barely acknowledges Roosevelt had to sign it. The oral histories of the various people who were evacuated was interesting, but everything else in this book was poorly done, and frankly I would expect the oral history could be found elsewhere. I wouldn't recommend this book.	2003-12-08
883292:US	52850806	R12DIFM729X5TH	0142001910	441465322	Tank	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Eccentric, uneven, whimsical history of tanks	This is one of those books it's hard to review. There are many reviews on this website that are unfair in that they criticize the book for not doing something the author never intended to do: recount a technical and military history of the tank. Instead this is a cultural history, and that (apparently) gives the author leeway to do what he will with the tanks themselves, stretching things very far in his quest to find their place in history. There is some detail about the development of tanks, but there's also a lot of other material here, much of it very interesting if only tangentially involved with the book's central subject.<br />The tank was invented about a hundred years ago, and has played a crucial role in most wars for the last sixty or so years. Originally intended as a &quot;breakthrough&quot; weapon to cross World War I's trenches, the tank eventually became the weapon of choice for both attack and defense, because of its three main characteristics: mobility, firepower, and protection. Wright covers this obliquely, without actually explaining it. Instead, he seems fascinated by odd cultural phenomena: the fact that the first tank &quot;expert,&quot; J.F.C. Fuller, was for a while a spiritualist and followed Aleister Crowley; the fact that in some small churches in England you can find tanks in their stained glass windows; and the fact that the American army seems very interested in not being downsized any further after the budget cuts of the nineties.<br />There are a hundred things involving tanks that the author pays little or no attention to. Tank development outside Britain is only briefly covered, and within Britain the coverage is only uneven at best. There's almost no discussion of things like horsepower, armor thickness, gun caliber, sighting devices, etc. The Germans are briefly discussed for their contribution to the tank's development during World War II, and the Soviets are mentioned even less. The French (who had tanks during World War I, just after the British) are basically ignored. The United States is only dealt with in any detail in the modern era (if there's a mention of the Sherman tank, I didn't see it) while the rest of the world only gets a very brief nod.<br />As a result, what you get is an uneven, entertaining, eccentric account of the cultural history of the tank. This should be qualified by saying it's an English-speaking cultural history of the tank, ignoring a great deal of the world and developments elsewhere. I enjoyed it, but readers should be aware of what they're getting into before they get it.	2003-11-30
883630:US	52850806	R1QQSXYJ14EJL9	044661162X	77432495	Chasing the Dime	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Tight Connelly mystery a bit different	This book is a departure for Michael Connelly, author of the Harry Bosch mysteries. Instead of creating another tough protagonist who goes after the bad guys with dogged intensity, Connelly this time crafts an egghead, and makes him the good guy.<br />Several of the negative reviews here criticize the plot of the book, or the main character Henry Pierce. The main criticism of Pierce is that he's smart enough to design or fabricate the next generation of computer chips but stupid in the way he investigates the mystery he's presented with in this book. Obviously, the people who make this criticism have never hung out with genius or near-genius people for any length of time. Very smart people are often in their own way very stupid, and Henry is no exception, and a wonderful character as a result.<br />Henry's been working on designing these computer chips, and he's gotten so obsessed that his lady love has kicked him out and quit working for his company. He's gotten a new apartment, complete with a new phone number, and that's when the fun begins. The second he plugs in the phone, he begins to get calls from men looking for a woman named Lilly. All the men are at hotels, and Pierce soon figures out that Lilly is a high-priced call girl. At first rendered somewhat aimless by his girl throwing him out, he begins searching for the girl, not sure what he'll do if he finds her.<br />That's about as much of the story as I'll tell you. It has interesting plot devices, characters that are fun, and an ending that's interesting and intelligent, not to mention a bit funny. I enjoyed the book a great deal, and would recommend it.	2003-11-29
884941:US	52850806	R1DUI7C1AGA5X8	0312130732	887995097	Fence Jumpers	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Interesting character study, not much plot	This is a deceptively long book, filled with atmosphere, and lacking much in the way of plot. Jimmy Burns, JoJo Paradiso, and Dante O'Donnell grew up in the same neighborhood, and now Burns and O'Donnell are cops on the Organized Crime Task Force, conducting surveillance on Paradiso and his buddies. Paradiso is the son of the local Don, and while said Don is aging and slowing down, he still controls things enough to make his prohibition against the family doing business with drug dealers or dealing drugs themselves. JoJo wants to overturn this and go into the drug business in a big way, in order to make money, so he's scheming behind his father's back.<br />This comprises the first half of the book. By the time the plot actually got going, I was pretty bored. The atmosphere is well-done, and the characters are interesting. When the plot does get going, however, it's almost totally predictable and takes way too long to get where it's going, especially since the first half of the book took so long to get to that point anyway. I enjoyed this book somewhat, but calling it a mystery or a suspense novel is a stretch to say the least.	2003-11-28
892788:US	52850806	RQQ2UJ4AVAH3M	158182257X	902283841	Lee at Chattanooga: A Novel of What Might Have Been	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The way alternative History ought to be	I bought this book on a whim, and boy am I glad I did. I'm not much of a fan of the Harry Turtledove stuff (I do read it, it's just that I'm not *that* impressed) wherein the author attempts to follow all aspects and angles of a particular period of \\"alternative\\" history. Here, retired FBI agent Dennis McIntire (reportedly a life-long Civil War buff) attempts less, and winds up with more of a book as a result.<br />The book is told in the form of a memoir. It begins, in a brief introduction, with the narrator (Jed Hotchkiss, Stonewall Jackson's Cartographer) recounting the surrender of the Confederate army in 1864, then shifts to 1867. In the latter section, Hotchkiss meets Jefferson Davis' secretary at General Lee's funeral, and recounts to him the events surrounding General Lee's participation in the battle of Chattanooga, and the results that came from these events. I will tell you no more: you should read the book yourself to find out how things get screwed up.<br />This book essentially turns the genre of Civil War Alternative History (so far anyway) on its head. Instead of the Confederates winning the war and living on in glory, Lee's presence at Chattanooga actually hastens the end of the war. To my mind, it's the equivalent of the David Downing novel The Moscow Option, which purports to show that even if Hitler's generals had been directing strategy in WW2 things might not have gone as well as they'd hoped. I enjoyed this book a great deal. McIntire is a good writer, and the prose is more than serviceable. The plot is interesting, and makes sense, and the characterizations of the generals involved are in line with what we know of them. I would recommend this book to all Civil War buffs, though the rest of the public would have to know something about the war and the battle to get the full import of what the book is saying.	2003-11-21
893425:US	52850806	RYJGW8PMQOMOR	0671020641	99455039	Comanche Moon (Lonesome Dove Story, Book 2)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Meandering plot	Larry McMurtry is one of the best known American novelists alive, mostly on the strength of Lonsome Dove and Terms of Endearment. Lonesome Dove especially was well-recieved and made into a very good miniseries, back when they made good ones. Since, McMurtry has written a sequel to Lonesome Dove, and two prequels, of which this is the second. It attempts to follow the characters through the period ca. about 1850 up through the late 1860's. There isn't a coherent plot, instead the characters roam around for 750 pages, with much dialog and amusement, the occasional gunfight, and some gruesome torture.<br />There are some characters who haven't been seen before, or who weren't in Lonesome Dove, anyway, and they provide some amusement. One, Inish Scull, is Gus and Call's captain in the rangers at the start of the book. He's a weird, strange character, and frankly should have been dropped two thirds of the way through the book when he returns to New England, or alternatively reintroduced to the plot somehow. His wife is even more outrageous than he is, and somehow is so annoying you're almost hoping the Indians get her and inflict some of McMurtry's patented unpleasantness upon her.<br />That being said, there's not much of a plot here, and there are conflicts with other books (notably Lonesome Dove itself). There's also the issue of history, and historical detail. It's as if McMurtry doesn't care, or doesn't know, and his publisher is uninterested too. So one character sings a song before it was written, another has a gun that hasn't been invented yet. The Civil War is almost an afterthought to the story. Frankly, Gus and Call would have been a lot more interesting if they'd gone east to fight in the war (many Texas Rangers did) and wound up at Pea Ridge or something. *That* would have been interesting. Instead, they act like the war didn't happen, almost, and no one else pays it much attention either. The one Northern-born ranger stays with his troop and rangers on, without much mention of his dilemma.<br />I've enjoyed many of McMurtry's books, and I enjoyed the characters here, but the plot was very thin. I can only recommend this book to those who already know they enjoy McMurtry, and are aware of what they're getting into.	2003-11-20
897476:US	52850806	R1IWME86TKPCAF	B0000BYPNN	721325086	Reversible Errors: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Turow's best in a long time	I enjoyed Scott Turow's early books, Presumed Innocent and The Burden of Proof. I've been less happy with his later ones, notably Pleading Guilty, though I was somewhat happy with Personal Injuries. In Reversible Errors, the author returns to what he was best at in his early days: a legal mystery/puzzle with twists and turns that aren't predictable, and an ending that's satisfying, if not exactly what you expected.<br />It's been 10 years since Rommy &quot;Squirrel&quot; Gandolph was convicted of a triple murder with a rape chaser, and he's sitting on death row a month and a half away from taking &quot;the Walk.&quot; He writes letters to everyone he can think of telling them he's innocent, and someone finally listens to the extent that the Federal District Court of Appeals appoints a lawyer from a high-profile firm to oversee one last examination of his case. The attorney involved is Arthur Raven, a middle-aged cipher who's spent all of his spare time during his adult life caring for a schizophrenic sister. As a result of this he has no social life, no love life, no life at all, and he sometimes daydreams about who he could fall in love with.<br />As Raven looks into the case, we are introduced to it in flashbacks. The victims were the proprieter of a local landmark in Turow's fictional Mid-Western city, a restaurant similar to the Pantry here in LA, and two of his customers. All three were shot and killed, the one female customer then being raped. The police are stymied until one of them, a cynical detective named Starczek, catches a break and discovers a low-level street thug named Rommy with an heirloom from the female victim in his pocket. After some creative interrogation, Rommy confesses, and Starczek turns the case over to his occasional lover, Muriel Wynn, a rising star in the prosecutor's office. Since Rommy confesses, there's only a quick trial, and no jury, and the judge sentences Rommy to death. End of story, except...<br />Jump back to the present. Wynn's now the Chief Deputy prosecutor, on her way to the elected office that handles all prosecutions. Starczek's a lieutenant on the verge of retirement or promotion. When the story begins to unfold, they defend the prosecution, but with different motivations, and rekindle their love affair, again with different perspectives. <br />Meanwhile Raven discovers that the judge in the trial was Gillian Sullivan (one of the crooked judges in Personal Injuries, which takes place between the flashback and the present portion of this book) who's been disbarred and imprisoned, and is now selling cosmetics at a department store. He initially contacts her with regard to the case, but ultimately begins to seduce her, clumsily, with interesting results.<br />The four characters and their romances are the backdrop for the back-and-forth nature of the main mystery plot. Witnesses come forward, each with their own agenda, changing the story and what the reader thinks happened in the diner. The result is that right up until the last few chapters I wasn't sure if Rommy was going to get out or not, and even then the ending surprised me.<br />I enjoyed this book a great deal, and would recommend it.	2003-11-17
900478:US	52850806	R2D9TBVZ9WVSAV	0871136791	11590154	Cold Mountain	Books	2	17	32	N	N	Overwritten, pretentious, ponderous	This much-acclaimed first novel but Charles Frazier follows two plot threads. In the one, Civil War Confederate soldier Inman (we never learn his first name) deserts his hospital bed while recovering from yet another wound, and begins the long trek back to Cold Mountain, where his lady love awaits him. The other thread involves the aforementioned lady love, Ada, who has a farm she doesn't know how to care for. She acquires an assistant, a young homeless woman named Ruby who's been wandering the hills, but knows more about farming. Together they work the farm, waiting for Inman.<br />Sounds like a promising premise for a novel, doesn't it? I'm a Civil War buff who enjoys historical novels, and serious fiction (though not much of the modern stuff, to be honest) and so I thought that it would be a perfect fit for me. I have even been told how good it was by people I've met at parties and so forth. So I had to read it. And boy was I disappointed.<br />For one thing, Frazier has decided to write the novel in a strange fashion, apparently attempting to create atmosphere. This has led to several strange choices: an overbearing, leaden tone to the prose, and the omission of quotation marks in the text. The latter leads to passages like the following:<br />The light soon fell too grey to read. A pair of bobwhites called their identical three-word messages back and forth from the field to the woods. Ruby rose and said, I better get on.<br />The last four words of that paragraph are spoken. What's the point to deleting the quotation marks and separating them from the rest of the text? It looks to me like the author is attempting to show how literary he is or something. If a paragraph begins with dialog, he starts it with a dash, but otherwise, you have to pay very careful attention. There's a passage later in the book (too long to reproduce here) where you're not sure where Inman stops speaking and the narrator starts, though Inman is I in one part of the paragraph and he in another.<br />Then there's the issue of &quot;authenticity.&quot; Frazier clearly knows something about the Civil War, and he's done some research which has led him to make some interesting choices in the novel: the way characters speak, the things they carry, the opinions they express. One very interesting thing (which the author only touches on briefly a couple of times) is that Inman doesn't idolize Lee, and admires Longstreet more. That's not something you would get from most history books (though it's entirely possible, especially for a soldier not from Virginia) and it's refreshing a bit.<br />On the other hand, there's the issue of the guns. In the first passage of the book where we actually see the name of a firearm, it's a Whitworth sniper rifle. It turns out that the gun is (apparently) owned by a Home Guard soldier who winds up chasing Inman. Whitworths were extremely rare, delicate, expensive weapons, and the idea of one in the hands of a Home Guard part-time soldier is something of a stretch of imagination for someone who knows something about the Civil War. For one thing, the ammunition would be hard to obtain (you couldn't make your own, as you could with many other weapons of the era) and for another it would be very difficult to care for, and you certainly wouldn't lean it against a wall outside a store (where we see it first) so that someone could fiddle with it or steal it. Later, we learn that Inman himself has a LeMat, an exotic pistol known as the &quot;grapeshot gun&quot; because of its shotgun barrel mounted below the regular pistol barrel. The author knows enough to make Inman's one of the better ones made in Britain, and though they were rare, it's not that much of a stretch. But later, when we meet the villain, the leader of the Home Guard, he has a Spencer repeating rifle. By now I've lost all hope of this being realistic, and the Spencer finished things off for me. Again, ammunition would have been an issue (the Spencer fires copper cartridges, which the South couldn't manufacture) and those that were captured were put in the hands of sharpshooters with carefully hoarded ammunition.<br />The novel does have a weary, careworn air about it that suggests that the characters have been through three years of war, and that's at least authentic. As I've shown, some of the details are suspect, though, so it's safe to say this: the more one knows about the Civil War in particular, the less authentic this novel will seem.<br />The novel has many pretentions though, attempting to be very literary and sophisticated. I believe it mostly fails, but others here think it succeeded. The parallels to Homer are obvious, and if you don't get them yourself, the author helpfully has Ada read the Oddyssey to Ruby early in the book, to make sure you get the reference yourself. Might as well have hit me over the head with Homer himself.<br />I don't like writing that's self-conciously sophisticated. I've read Conrad, Scott Fitzgerald, Hemingway, Jane Austen, Chaim Potok, Patrick O'Brian. I'm not a fan of modern literature, and since I suppose this book is aspiring to fit into that category, along with Updike and Vonnegut and so forth. I wish the author luck, but I'm not going to read anything else by the man. This was a big disappointment.	2003-11-15
901784:US	52850806	R2VWL4OC75TUHK	0786712643	589861924	Panzerkrieg: The Rise and Fall of Hitler's Tank Divisions	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Excellent history of Germany's WW2 armored forces	This is the first book, I believe, by two young writers who have chosen to study Germany's armored forces in World War II. The book covers the Panzer forces from their inception in the early thirties right through the end of the war, covering all of the battles that they fought in. If that were all that was in the book, it would be a worthwhile work, but that's just the start of things.<br />The authors are determined to explain every aspect of armored warfare in WW2 that they can. As a result, they discuss everything to do with it, from the design of the tanks themselves to their features and the duties of the crewmen. Such issues as disposing of bodily waste while inside the tank (I'm not kidding) are at least discussed. Each German tank is discussed in some detail, with such things as armament, armor, and horsepower detailed so that you know the weak and strong points of each vehicle.<br />The author also spends a considerable length of time talking about the various officers in the Panzers and their careers. Their hero is Heinz Guderian, the man who devised the Panzer forces and influenced their development the most. They also have a great deal of respect for Rommel and Manstein, and spend a lot of time on Balck, Hube, von Mellenthin, Model, von Rundstedt, and von Manteuffel. They also discuss at some length several more junior officers who they think are worthy of praise.<br />There are a few minor errors in the book, nothing to detract from the information, but a bit troubling nontheless. In the first chapter there's a reference to the \\"Roman Phalanx,\\" and later George Patton is referred to as a \\"redneck.\\" Romans, of course, had the Legion, which they used to make the Phalanxes of the Greeks obsolete, and Patton was anything but a redneck, even if he was a loudmouth. <br />The result is a very good book with much interesting and useful information. I would recommend it to anyone with an interest in World War II in Europe, or armored forces and their employment.	2003-11-14
907889:US	52850806	R180J35LD7GSRO	0316652288	715993299	Almost Heaven: Travels Through the Backwoods of America	Books	3	11	12	N	N	The Wackiest American	Martin Fletcher is a reporter for the Times of London, stationed in Washington D.C., at the start of this book. He takes a sabbatical from this work, and travels across America, ostensibly in search of the &quot;other America.&quot; You know, the rural countryside, where life is simpler and the people are poorer, less sophisticated, more honest. The problem is what he finds, and ultimately the method he uses to find it.<br />Fletcher travelled the country looking at various communities, but he skips large swathes of the country---New England, the MidWest, California. Instead he takes a wandering path that he gives you the impression is random, but eventually he lets it slip that he knew where he was going all along, for the most part. The result is that in his &quot;wanderings&quot; he discovers that rural America is peopled by strange people who speak weird dialects, religious kooks, white supremacists, more religious kooks, unreconstructed hippies, still more religious kooks, and some poor black people. It turns out that Fletcher, being a reporter from the Times, had done some research, and planned to visit various of these places before he left, *because* the people there were strange. He seems to have avoided, or driven through, the places with &quot;just folks.&quot;<br />Nevertheless, the writing is reasonably interesting, and the characters are fun, for the most part. The author avoids being judgmental about everyone but the right wing white supremacist religious nuts, who he openly disdains, but of course no one really likes them anyway. The result is an uneven book, filled with interesting portraits of interesting people on the one hand, but on the other with a definitely skewed perspective of rural America that isn't particularly pleasant, to be honest. I will therefor recommend this book, but with that warning: don't take this as a portrait of America, rather it's more of a portrait of parts of America.	2003-11-09
911251:US	52850806	R2O6AE8NKKL8WW	0316105848	755102072	Flyboys: A True Story of Courage	Books	3	403	504	N	N	Pop History with all its shortcomings	What an odd book. Flyboys is the story of several air raids flown against the island of Chichi Jima, north of Iwo Jima, during 1944-45, by the U.S. Navy and Marine Corps, and more specifically it's the story of what happened to those airmen who were shot down over the island. The author, to write this story, uses extensive interviews he conducted with participants from both sides, survivors in their late 70s and 80s. This is all well and good, and if the book stopped at that, I suspect I'd be giving it a higher rating than I am.<br />What cripples the book is the author's belief that he has to give you a history lesson. As a result, he starts his account of the raids on the island by describing Japan prior to Admiral Perry's arrival in 1852. He takes a sort of anecdotal approach to things, recounting various events in American and Japanese history. His reason for doing this, apparently, is to give the events of the subject of the book context.<br />And that brings us to the main difficulty with the book. The author has a rather skewed view of American history, one that's decidedly more critical of it than is warranted, at least in my view. Further, his recounting of fact is at times inaccurate and incomplete. There is one good thing he doesn't do: he doesn't attempt to minimize Japanese atrocities in WW2. What he does instead is insist that the Americans committed crimes just as terrible, the implication being that the Japanese were punished because they lost the war.<br />Let me go over these accusations in some detail, so I'm not misunderstood and we're all clear. In the chapter dealing with America's 19th century history, he recounts the Mexican-American War and the Indian Wars and then tells you that they are instances of American war crimes that the Japanese took as proper behavior for a western country, and that this meant that if the Japanese became regarded as civilized they could do these things too. The difficulty comes in the recounting of the wars themselves.<br />The Mexican war is dismissed in a few paragraphs, mostly recounting U.S. Grant's opinion that the war was sinful and wrong. He also said (in the same passage in his autobiography) that he thought the U.S. Civil War was punishment for the Mexican-American War, but that's left out of Bradley's summary of what Grant said.<br />Bradley then recounts the Indian Wars by telling you of the Sand Creek massacre. Sand Creek was probably the most egregious and senseless murder of Indians during the Indian Wars. Using it as an emblem for the whole is similar to using O.J. as an example of how all football players treat their wives. While the U.S. was harsh and unfair with American Indians in the 19th century, it wasn't universally so, and the depth of the unfairness varied depending on where they were or lived or other factors. Bradley ignores all of this.<br />Then Bradley really goes off the reservation, so to speak. Many people know the history (at least in outline) of the Mexican-American War and the Indian War, but the insurrection in the Philippines is by contrast very obscure. Bradley's recounting of the U.S. experience there is almost entirely from one source, one book called Benevolent Assimilation. I have a book called The Philippine War, which includes a critical bibliography. In it the author dismisses two other books on the war, then labels Benevolent Assimilation \\"even more factually inaccurate\\" than those two books. Bradley relied on this book almost completely for his account of the war. He should know that if you're going to write the history of something, you consult more than one source.<br />The author also has a goofy habit of referring to people in an eccentric fashion in the book. This starts with the term Flyboys, which he insists on using (capitalized) as if it were a title or rank, when he refers to American and British aviators from the War. He refers to President Roosevelt as \\"the Dutchman\\" repeatedly, calls Curtis LeMay \\"Curtis\\", and sarcastically labels Japan's military leadership \\"Spirit Warriors\\" and their emperor the \\"Boy Soldier\\" (because he was educated in part by generals). It's all very weird, and a bit juvenile.<br />What does all of this lead to? The author seems to have a feeling that all war leads to war crimes which all sides commit, and that the one way to prevent this is to prevent wars. There's a sense of moral equivalency running through the book that's annoying when faint and insulting when he gets more insistent about it. There's also, as a side annoyance, the pro-Marine bias that's so common in books that deal with them in contrast with the army (check out my review of Martin Russ' book Breakout if you want to learn my opinion of this in more detail). It's not stated much here, the one outrageous comment implying that the Normandy invasion was a cakewalk.<br />The oral history part of the book is very valuable, however, and the author, to his credit, doesn't flinch in recounting the Japanese war crimes or their aftermath. For this I commend him, and give him the two stars he gets above the one minimum one. I would recommend this book, but only very guardedly, given the inaccuracy of the backstory in the early chapters.	2003-11-06
916494:US	52850806	RVONRL44H37TF	0515136204	148574901	Shrink Rap (Sunny Randall Series)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Sunny Redux	Ok. We've established several things from the previous reviews, all of them more-or-less true. Sunny Randall is a younger, female version of Spenser. Robert B. Parker is showing his age a bit (not much, but a bit). His stories are sparingly written, with a great deal of snappy dialog and not a whole lot of description or characterization. So what you get is a *spare* plot, not much action, and a great deal of conversation that illuminates what Parker's interested in illustrating while the story's going on in the background.<br />Parker's been dealing with these issues for at least a decaded now (in the earlier books, he was strictly a detective novelist) and he's settled in several themes which he repeats, with variations. Some readers who have followed him religiously will, I suppose, begin to tire of these themes. Frankly, given that those themes don't produce much surprising any more, I still enjoy the books because I like the characters.<br />In this book, the aforementioned Sunny Randall is hired to bodyguard a female romance novelist with a stalker for a husband. This plot device is somewhat old hat for Parker. Spenser first bodyguarded for a writer in Looking for Rachel Wallace back what must be two decades ago. The results are somewhat different though. Here, Sunny decides to engage in some preemptive detective work after she discovers that the husband, a shrink, has a nasty habit of seducing his female patients (almost all of them are female) and then killing them if they get troublesome.<br />I liked this book, I like the series, I like Parker generally. I would recommend the book.	2003-11-02
916503:US	52850806	RNTBGE8EP5RNJ	0374281947	375817200	Personal Injuries (Scott Turow)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Odd undercover novel	Scott Turow has been writing lawyerly novels for some years now, suspenseful in their way, with twisting plots and interesting characters. This, his fifth book, is a wonderful turn on the world of personal injury lawsuits. The narrator, George Mason, is representing another lawyer, Robbie Feaver. Robbie's been working as a personal injury lawyer for twenty years, winning many cases, with a dirty little secret he's never told anyone before: he bribes judges to get the decisions he wanted. Now he's been discovered, and his only way to stay out of prison is to cooperate. The U.S. Attorney wants him to wear a wire, and incriminate as many of the judges and other actors as he can.<br />From there, the novel takes a predictable course, though the plot itself has several surprises that you don't see coming, and some wonderful characters. Though Mason is the narrator, much of the action takes place out of his sight (a device used by more and more authors) and is very entertaining. Robbie Feaver, the main character, is a wonderfully drawn contradiction, a born salesman/actor who can lie to everyone repeatedly and still have them, at some level, liking him. The story is told with artful prose and a reasonable pace, and doesn't drag that much in the middle.<br />I enjoyed this book and would recommend it.	2003-11-02
920916:US	52850806	RN4X6P0679AT7	0681565888	66914180	The First Eagle	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Chee's the Lieutenant now	Tony Hillerman has been writing detective novels about Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn, Navajo policemen who fight crime on the reservation and deal with things that are often wrapped up in tribal justice, and sometimes possibly supernatural things, too. Each of these stories is strong, in its own way. This one is standard, middle-of-the-road Hillerman, with the difference that there's no supernatural element to the story.<br />Instead, we get a short crash course in infectious diseases, including the bubonic plague and hantavirus, among others. A Navajo dies of plague, and a Navajo policeman is murdered, apparently by a Hopi who's poaching eagles on the Navajo reservation. Chee (now an acting Lieutenant in the Navajo tribal police) catches the poacher leaning over the dead cop, makes the expected deduction, and arrests him. Things heat up a bit when he discovers that his old flame, Janet Pete, is back from Washington and coincidentally acting as the poacher's defense attorney.<br />I like Tony Hillerman, and I liked this book. It did lack some of the atmosphere of some of his earlier novel, as there isn't much of the tribal mysticism that made other books so interesting, but it is a good story and fun.	2003-10-30
922564:US	52850806	R8C199HYBWN85	1557503079	416697582	Shooting the War: The Memoir and Photographs of a U-Boat Officer in World War II	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Sailor's odyssey is a bit of everything	Otto Giese had an unusual war. He was a merchant marine officer with a German cruise company when the shooting started in 1939, and the cruise ship he was on was in the Caribbean. His ship attempted to return to Germany, but was intercepted by the Royal Navy and scuttled by its crew. They wound up being interned by the U.S. Navy (entering the U.S. through Ellis Island!) and found their way to San Francisco and then Japan with the idea of being repatriated to Germany through the U.S.S.R. Instead, though, Giese wound up as a watch officer on board a blockade runner which successfully made the run from Japan to occupied France via Cape Horn, rendevousing with a German commerce raider in mid-Pacific along the way.<br />Once he was back in Germany, he sought out service in the Navy, in spite of opposition from his employer. He wound up serving as an enlisted man on U-405 through four patrols operating out of Norway against Murmansk convoys. Then he was transferred to officer training, and soon assigned to U-181, which travelled from France to the Indian Ocean via the Cape of Good Hope. Once there, they eventually landed at Penang in Malaysia, intending to restock with supplies needed in Germany and return there later. When they tried to sail back home, the sub's drive bearings failed and they had to return to Indonesia, where they waited out the end of the war. He then spent some time interned by the Japanese in Malaysia, more time as a POW both there and in Britain, before finally returning to Germany. He eventually settled in Florida and became a U.S. citizen.<br />This book comprises what is described as a &quot;war diary&quot; kept by Giese. This stretches credulity a bit, and I think it would be better to describe it as a memoir. The author recounts the events briefly, and some of the chapters are so short it only takes a few moments to read them. Sinking of Allied ships is handled in a sentence, perhaps two. There isn't that much information on life on a U-boat during WW2.<br />Why then the high rating? Turns out Giese was a shutterbug (camera enthusiast) and kept a Leica camera with him at all times. He managed to develop photos of his experiences and keep them safe all these years, and the book is sprinkled with more than a hundred of them. Frankly, the pictures are much better than the book is, and I enjoyed them a great deal. The book was still good, don't get me wrong, but without the photos would have drawn three stars, not four.	2003-10-28
927130:US	52850806	R3CD66NDV1401I	0375501789	633273687	The Innocents Within: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Strange Flat tale of refugees in WW2	An American fighter pilot gets shot down in occupied France. A Protestant pastor goads his village parishioners into sheltering Jewish refugees. One of the refugees, a pretty young girl, hides with him and becomes his adopted daughter. A young Jew learns to forge documents, and hides in a nearby farm.<br />These are the elements of Robert Daley's The Innocents Within, a novel that should be more compelling than it is. When the pilot shelters with the pastor's family while the pastor himself has been temporarily arrested by the government. He (of course) falls in love with the girl, and meanwhile other wheels turn, each affecting the others.<br />All of these elements are interesting, and the story itself is compelling, but the story is told in such flat, disinterested tones that nothing comes across as important, and the story is robbed of some of its suspense. It is, at times, affecting though. While the story sags in the middle somewhat, it does pick up somewhat towards the end.	2003-10-25
930709:US	52850806	R1A1R3NYTT58G7	0446679224	771617734	Original Sin (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #9)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Standard James mystery is a cut above	P.D. James is one of the best novelists alive, and she has gained a considerable reputation as a mystery writer. It's to the point that she was created Baroness James of Holland park a dozen years ago. She writes these Adam Dalgliesh mysteries, which are complex, textured stories that have multiple points of view, and involving, engaging characters that act in interesting ways, for intelligent motives.<br />In this volume, Dalgliesh is consulted about a series of practical jokes that have occurred at a venerable publishing house that's situated in a large mansion on the banks of the Thames River. He declines to get involved, and two weeks later there's a murder on the premises. The partners of the firm are from two extended families, though the leadership has recently passed from a pair of elderly men to a younger generation, dominated by the first victim, a vigorous man with a somewhat distasteful personality.<br />Dalgliesh steps into this mystery with his assistant Kate Miskin and a new one, Daniel Aaron, and he spends most of this book trying to disentangle the various threads of the crime and the things that are going on. The plot thickens, more murders occur, and the plot speeds up as things proceed.<br />James is somewhat like Christie, but different in one significant way that makes her a considerable improvement. Christie's novels were very plot-driven, with characters that didn't come to life much. The one exception was the main detective, and then you had to read several books to get into their character and get to know them. James by contrast writes a good plot---her books are almost as complex as Christie---but they are equally populated with characters that are memorable in and of themselves.<br />This is one of James' better books, and I only give it four stars as opposed to five because it gets a bit slow in the middle, and the murderer turns out to be a bit improbable. Other than that, the story is fine and I enjoyed it.	2003-10-22
934651:US	52850806	RN30MURJ61688	0060197005	832267718	Stonehenge: 2000 B.C.--A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Stereotypical tale of lust, greed, and construction (?)	This is the story of the construction of Stonehenge itself, as Bernard Cornwell imagines it. It centers on a family of a father and three boys. The father is wise and just, and of course wishes to live with his neighbors in peace, but events have a way of going in different directions. Eventually the father passes from the story, and his three sons struggle for power among themselves, and compete with their neighbors for it too.<br />The three sons might be referred to as the killer, the builder, and the priest, though all three characters do their fair share of killing. The aforementioned killer is evil, and wishes to build the temple at Stonehenge (the name is never used in the story) in order to call on the gods to make him powerful, so he can conquer his neighbors. The priest is something of a lunatic, born crippled, who rants, has visions, and drives everyone else with a relentless dream of finishing the temple in a particular fashion at a particular time. The builder is the story's protagonist, a simple man who wants only to be left alone with his family, in peace.<br />The book has several problems, not the least of which is the aforementioned frame of the story. It struck me as a version of several plots from Shakespeare and other classic literature, dressed up with ancient warrior tattoos and these rocks they push around. Many people have commented about the length of the story, though I don't think that's entirely fair: the book weighs in at 434 pages, of which the last few are an afterword. The problem isn't length, exactly, it's that the plot takes a long while to get anywhere. Even more annoying than that is the issue of religion. The priests apparently decide that they want something, and then tell the people that the gods have decreed it. This makes for many irritating characters and events, and you never really get away from them.<br />While I enjoyed this book, I think (know) that I have and will enjoy Mr. Cornwell's Sharpe series a great deal more.	2003-10-19
936544:US	52850806	RZ38G3OB5GPN4	0156013053	180344806	The Nautical Chart	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Sags in the middle	&quot;We could call him Ishmael, but in truth his name is Coy.&quot; So starts Arturo Perez-Reverte's The Nautical Chart, an at times self-concious sea-faring novel involving the hunt for lost treasure off the coast of Spain. Coy has been suspended by the authorities for allowing his ship to go aground. To pass the time he attends auctions in the town where he's staying, and he meets a young woman who buys a 250-year-old chart. Naturally, this leads to a confrontation with a bad guy, and Coy winds up helping the young woman decipher what the chart means, and recover what it leads to.<br />There are several problems with this. First, the author in previous books has had plot twists and murky happenings. In this volume (as in The Fencing Master, which I read just before this) there are no twists like that, so the author seems to feel he has to replace them with something. As a result, the prose here is, at times, so overwritten and dense you wonder if he intended for anyone to read it. Paragraphs sometimes (I'm not exaggerating) stretch past two pages in length. Plot digressions (where the author stops the narrative to ruminate about something) sometimes last for most of a chapter. The conceit of this is that the book is actually written by a narrator (a minor character from the end of the book) and he is presented as an insufferable pedant. This explains why the character is this way, but not why the author decided to write the book in this fashion.<br />Those objections aside, The Nautical Chart is a good story, and a decent book. I did enjoy it, and am going to go looking for The Seville Communion, the one in the series I missed.	2003-10-17
941794:US	52850806	R33SFVBKEPT83Y	0813338697	226826039	Fire In The Sky: The Air War In The South Pacific	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Bergerud strikes again	Given the other reviews regarding the present book, I think it's important to begin my review of Fire in the Sky by explaining what Eric Bergerud does, and what he doesn't do. This will also serve to explain what this book is, and what it isn't.<br />1. Eric Bergerud doesn't write narrative histories of battles or campaigns. The previous book of his that I read (Red Thunder, Tropic Lightning) was not a narrative history, neither is this, and apparently his other two books aren't either. Saying they're poor narrative histories (several reviewers, notably fellow historian Eric Hammel, do this or imply it) is like saying a Ferrari is bad for carrying lumber to a construction site. It's intended for picking up girls; you buy a pickup to haul lumber. Bergerud's books are all thematic rather than narrative in content; comparable books would include Bell I. Wiley's The Life of Billy Yank and The Life of Johnny Reb, and John J. Elting's Swords around a Throne.<br />2. Bergerud doesn't do oral histories, either. His books, because of their thematic nature, are attempting to make points rather than just provide a you-are-there realism. The first person accounts that he uses are therefore not sorted chronologically or by battle, but to illustrate points the author is making in the text. If you try and figure out what sort of chronological order the author was using to sort the accounts he recounts, you'll be lost.<br />3. This leads us to what this book *is*. It's a thematic account of the Air War in the South Pacific during the period from the summer of 1942 to the spring of 1944. This is the crucial period where the Japanese Air Forces started with a seemingly overwhelming advantage, and ended with a catastrophic defeat. How and why this occurred is the meat of this book.<br />Since the author is freed from a narrative form for the bulk of the book, the structure is different from what you would normally encounter when opening such a volume. Instead of getting an account ofthe individual maneuvers, battles, and campaigns of the conflict, you instead get chapters on the terrain, the weather, the airplanes of the combatants, and the nature of combat over the course of the period covered by the book. Such mundane things as airfield contruction, airplane maintenance, squadron morale, operational accidents, and supply aircraft, normally relegated to a footnote or not mentioned at all in other books, get a fair treatment here. The result is a wonderful book that includes so much information that's not in other works that it would be futile to try and list it all. Suffice to say that the book is one of the best on any campaign ever written in my view. I disagree strongly with most of the criticisms on this site.<br />I will concur in one minor criticism. While I disagree that the book needed an editor in the sense of shortening the text, I will agree that a *copy*editor was needed, perhaps a better proofreader. There are several spots where the text uses &quot;sunk&quot; and clearly should say &quot;sank,&quot; and on one occasion uses &quot;cryptographer&quot; when it should say &quot;cartographer.&quot; Most of these occur in the last 200 pages of the book: you get the idea that the production staff was in a hurry or got tired.<br />Other than this minor flaw, this is a near-perfect book on the South Pacific Air War, and I highly recommend it to anyone interested in the subject.	2003-10-13
955799:US	52850806	RCMWMUPGZG7VA	1400061563	942724151	Death by Hollywood: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A different type of writing	Steven Bocchco is probably one of the better known producers in Hollywood, with Hill Street Blues, L.A. Law, and NYPD Blue to his credit, among other things. So he's done so well there, he decided to become a novelist like his friend Stephen J. Cannell, who has now written a number of novels. The result is Death by Hollywood, a frothy entertainment with few redeeming features but no real flaws either.<br />The text alternates between first person narration and the points of view of many other characters, with the conceit that the narrator is telling you what he thinks happened when he wasn't there. The narrator is a Hollywood agent named Eddie Jelko, a guy with hundreds of stories and more jokes about the biz than Jay Leno. He represents the main character, Bobby Newman, a down-on-his-luck screenwriter who has writer's block, a drinking problem, and an unfaithful wife who's just decided to leave him. Bobby witnesses a murder in the middle of this, and instead of reporting the killer to the police, as he should, he sees an opportunity to escape his writer's block. Much hilarity ensues, as the law of unforseen consequences boomerangs with a vengeance.<br />I enjoyed this book a good deal. Bocchco proves to be a pretty skilled writer, though the book shows signs of lengthening. There are many jokes and anecdotes that have nothing to do with the main plot, and the margins on the pages are wide, ditto the space between the lines of text. I bet they could have fit this into 180 pages if they'd tried. I suppose this is a result of Bocchco knowing how to write hour-long screenplays, most of the time, rather than longer books. It's a skill you learn, I guess. That being said, this is still a fun book, and I would recommend it.	2003-10-01
956961:US	52850806	R13BBH16IK6DBL	0671000314	611699839	Flood Tide	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Dirk Pitt Ad Nauseum	Maybe I'm getting jaded. I used to like these novels back some time ago, with the silly preposterous chases and the historical settings and artifacts. You get everything from a battleship turned into a monument turning its guns on the capital to the ghost of a WW1 flying ace strafing a U.S. Air Force base and getting revenge. I mean everything. The main character is a cross between Jacques Cousteau and Indiana Jones, except he has more sex appeal than James Bond. Everything's always very lurid, with the hero (Dirk Pitt) getting horribly upset and desiring revenge at the expense of the villain.<br />The plot doesn't make much sense, or really matter that much. In this instance, Pitt's vacationing at a lake in Oregon when a billionaire Chinese lunatic tries to use the lake as a dumping ground for useless illegal Chinese immigrants (I kid you not) and of course Pitt rescues them. It turns out that the government wants Pitt and his team to explore the billionaire's operations (by one of Cussler's patented preposterous coincidences) and so off we go.<br />There are many adventurous things in this book, chases involving boats, cars, submarines, ultralight gliders, and so forth. Gunfire and sex abound (though the sex is tastefully done, I will say that) and the humor is kind of lame.<br />If you're into this sort of thing I suppose this was fun. Somehow, I think I've reached my threshhold of disbelief.	2003-09-30
957288:US	52850806	R24FMFQBDUFWO9	0312978375	204354638	Hong Kong (A Jake Grafton Novel)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Grafton in Hong Kong	This book is not the best entry in the Jake Grafton series (I still hold out for the first, Flight of the Intruder) but it is a very good book, if you can put up with a couple of annoyances. The plot is rather simple. Grafton goes to Hong Kong at the behest of the government. His mission is to investigate whether the American consul there is getting involved in something he shouldn't be. The reason for sending Grafton is that a lifetime ago he flew missions in Viet Nam with the guy, and they're friends. So Jake goes to Hong Kong, and takes his wife along, because he met her in that city thirty years ago.<br />When they arrive, things get hot pretty fast. In addition to Jake's old friend (now a dot-com billionaire) there are various spies of dubious loyalties, an even more doubtful smuggler, and the usual Communist monsters running things. Coonts' politics are rather apparent (the fictional Democrat President has been bought off by the Communist leadership, and the Communists themselves are scum) and may be offensive to some people, or at least a bit annoying. His action sequences are fun, though I will say that the bit with the combat robots was a bit much.<br />Overall I enjoyed the book, though, and would recommend it.	2003-09-30
957786:US	52850806	R1JD6L4W9I1V2P	0684870274	62503323	Vietnam: The Necessary War: A Reinterpretation of America's Most Disastrous Military Conflict	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Reinterpreting Viet Nam	The VietNam War gets much ink spilled in hopes of explaining what happened between the years 1960-75. This is an attempt by a self-described &quot;liberal anti-communist&quot; to explain how the Viet Nam War was lost, and by whom. It's a pretty cogent argument, with only a flaw here and there, generally well-reasoned and thought out.<br />Lind doesn't want to discuss the war in detail, and that's one of the problems of the book. He stays focused on strategy and big-picture things, paying attention to all of the 20th century battles of the Cold War, and battles since. I found it a bit annoying that he places most of the blame for the defeat in Viet Nam at the feet of the military, but other than some vague platitudes about fighting the wrong war, he has little to say by way of explanation of what they did wrong.<br />Instead, weirdly, the book turns out to be a defense of Lyndon Johnson. Lind finds Johnson almost completely blameless, and thinks him rather skilled as a politician and a war leader. He has many biting and incisive opinions on other principals of the war and critics of the operations there. He takes shots at pretty much everyone who has written about the war before him, from Noam Chomsky to Robert MacNamara to Barbara Tuchman, and has little good to say about anyone else at all.<br />Given all of this, this is still a worthwhile book. The author has clearly thought all of this through, and his arguments, if a bit much at times, are well-thought out and reasoned.	2003-09-30
957985:US	52850806	R1RCUA7HH60MQ1	0812968220	64748518	No Certain Rest: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Antietam revisited	This is a short novel dealing with a puzzle from America's past. A pair of relic hunters are searching the Antietam battlefield, and find a skeleton with a bullet hole through its head. As the park service's local archeologist investigates, it becomes clear that the dead soldier was an officer, and was killed in the battle, but not (apparently) in combat. This intrigues the archaeologist, and off he goes to investigate and solve the mystery.<br />This is an interesting, if short book. There are interesting themes here. Several of the main characters almost kill one another (or do so) at various points, and you get the feeling that Mr. Lehrer is trying to make a point about violence and friendships. There is also some thoughts on the Civil War and the soldiers who died in it, and refreshingly it's not mostly about the gallant Confederates, who tend to get most of the ink in this sort of thing. I enjoyed the book, and would recommend it.	2003-09-30
972504:US	52850806	R14OK1UIKTA1ZG	0452283671	859633611	Silent Night: The Story of the World War I Christmas Truce	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Cultural History of a little-known Episode of the Great War	In the first months of World War I, while the mud was still new and disgusting to the troops in the trenches, and the killing was still novel to them, Christmas approached. Some of the soldiers on both sides (but chiefly, curiously, the Germans) crossed no-man's-land and met to exchange gifts, sing carols, play games of soccer, and socialize. This so-called Christmas truce lasted in some sectors for several days or even a couple of weeks, and was localized and generally restricted to areas where the British were facing non-Prussian units of the German army, though there were many exceptions. The Belgians and French, less friendly towards the invaders of their country, were only involved sporadically.<br />This book, then, is the story of this truce, and its impact on Western society, both in terms of the actual effect and the effect it could have had. The author uses diaries and later interviews with participants, newspaper articles of the time, and the few official histories which mention the events, to bring the account to life. He supplements these with versions of the event in fiction in various places, but is careful to tell you the accounts are fictional, and there's generally a reason for including them. One of the best-known British writers from the Great War, Robert Graves, apparently based a fictional account of the event on stories he heard after the fact, for instance. The book also includes a sort of mini-history of the history of the event, including everything from a British rock group in the seventies to Snoopy and his mythical duel with the Red Baron.<br />The book concludes with a what-if speculation, that tries to imagine the world after a Christmas truce that lasted, and forced the politicians to peace. This is somewhat clumsily handled, because the image of the French or Belgians accepting the German occupation of parts of their country at this stage isn't believable, and the Germans weren't going to give up what they'd fought so hard to capture. The author acknowledges this somewhat in the main part of the book when he recounts that the Germans often boasted that they would be defeating their enemies soon, even while they were exchanging gifts and carols with them. This speculative chapter is the weakest part of the book.<br />I did enjoy the book overall, though, and would recommend it.	2003-09-17
976044:US	52850806	R1W19T464LQPT2	0446611913	265598858	Up Country	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not really a suspense novel	Up Country is Nelson DeMille's second VietNam novel (Word of Honor being the first) and I think he wrote it more for himself than for his audience. It's an OK book, but it's not really the suspense novel it's billed as, though there are suspenseful elements to it. I was unsure whether I would give it three stars or four right up until I began this review, and may revise the number up there before I finish. If you want it rated as a suspense novel it's a weak three, but if you're looking for a VietNam novel it's a strong four. <br />Paul Brenner (the CID investigator from The General's Daughter) is called out of retirement to look into a strange case. A letter has surfaced in the posession of an American army vet, looted from a dead NVA soldier 30 years before. It details a murder that the writer of the letter (not the dead NVA soldier, but his brother) witnessed during the Tet offensive in January 1968. From details in the letter, the writer's name and home village are discerned by army investigators. During the Tet holiday, everyone in VietNam returns to their ancestral village, so if Brenner visits the village then, if the witness is still alive, he'll probably be there. Brenner's sent to interview him, masquerading as a soldier turned tourist visiting all of the places he fought in 30 years ago.<br />If this were a suspense novel, it'd be about half of its length. You can sustain suspense for 800 pages, but it's difficult to do, and either DeMille doesn't know how, or he's interested in other things, because this book doesn't even try. When Brenner arrives in the country, he's harrassed by the police, but we know he's not going to be killed or imprisoned because the book has 700 more pages to go. There are a few chases and that sort of thing in the middle of the book but no real suspense. By the time the book reaches its climax, if you haven't figured out the bare bones of the conspiracy, you've not thought about it much.<br />The book is, however, a fictionalized account of an American army vet returning to the country where he fought 30 years ago, and trying to come to terms with the country and what he did there when he was young. If you can live with this as the basis and the majority of the story, then you'll be fine. I can, mostly because DeMille's a facile and engaging writer. I was somewhat annoyed with Brenner, the main character, at times, though. He's basically interchangeable with any of DeMille's other characters (the guy in The Lion's Game, and the one in Plum Island, come to mind) and they all have a penchant for annoying and often lame humor. It's more than a bit annoying.<br />Given that, I enjoyed the book, and would recommend it.	2003-09-14
976178:US	52850806	R22SCX07HXWHJQ	0439136369	667539744	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Harry Potter's growing up (sort of)	Harry Potter has been the subject of two previous novels, and they all start the same way. In each, Harry's suffering through an abominable summer with his relatives, the repulsive Dursleys, who hate and fear him (because of his magical powers) and have worked their whole lives to spoil their son and torment Harry. This time around, Harry's aunt visits them, and treats him even worse than the Dursleys themselves do, and Harry becomes angry. The result isn't pretty and could get him in trouble, but instead he's whisked away to a safe haven to wait for school to start, largely because there's a magical fugitive on the loose, and the rumor is he's going to try and kill Harry.<br />This third of Rowling's Harry Potter series is a bit longer than the first two, but not as intimidating as the later two (which each top 800 pages). It's significantly more mature in its messages. I don't mean sex, but there are lessons here about trying to do too much, trying to do the right things, and so forth, that are worth reading even if you aren't a kid. The plot's also a bit more sophisticated and complex, and I think a bit better. If anything, it's an improvement over the first two books, and very interesting.	2003-09-14
976913:US	52850806	R9DRT3BYQGF1Z	0553578278	730036633	Shooting at Midnight	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Weakest when he deviates from Atticus	Greg Rucka has been writing suspense novels for about 7 or 8 years now, up til now focusing on the curiously named Atticus Kodiak, and bodyguard and security specialist who lives and works in New York City. This fourth book isn't narrated by Atticus, except for an interlude in the middle. Instead, we're told the story by Atticus' sometime lover, Bridget Logan. We've met her in previous books, but when Rucka lets her tell her own story, it turns out that there's more to her character than Atticus has seen before, and it all comes out as this book progresses. She's a recovering heroin addict (which Atticus didn't know) and has a very checkered past, with many problems that are exacerbated by her addiction. And she also has friends, one of whom she's dedicated to helping, even at the risk of her own life.<br />I don't typically like books about addicts or drugs. Frankly they give me the creeps, and this book, in those sections anyway, gave me the creeps in spades. I also found the character of Bridget, once we see what's going on inside her head, to be less appealing and more appalling than she was when she was Atticus' girlfriend, through his eyes. She's stubborn, not very honest, annoyingly self-centered, and at times downright stupid. These two things detracted from what was otherwise a worthwhile book; I still enjoyed it though, and Rucka manages to make an ending to the story that surprised me, and pleased me a bit more than I thought it would.	2003-09-14
984432:US	52850806	R2JA8NZCVU30IP	0743435516	973278393	The Short Victorious War (Honor Harrington #3)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Honor can be fun	This is the third book in the Honor Harrington series by David Weber. It's a concious pastiche of the old Horatio Hornblower stories by C.S. Forester, right up to the initials of the main characters being the same. Honor is a captain the the Royal Manticore Navy, constantly competing with the decrepit but large and aggressive People's Republic of Haven.<br />In the first two installments of the series, the Havenites tried limited offensives to win planets from the area between the two space nations, but in this book they decide to try for the throat, more or less. The resulting confrontation, with Honor right in the middle, is very suspenseful and interesting. There are characters from previous books, and the plot is fun.<br />If there's a problem with the book, it's that because this story involves fleet actions, Honor's role in the story is somewhat more limited. It is interesting, however, and the characters are fun too. The author has clearly put a good deal of time into devising the space combat tactics of the age, and thinking things over. I would recommend this book.	2003-09-07
984716:US	52850806	R2A4UFFFASQAFK	0863327885	915288578	Aegean Adventures, 1940-43: And the End of Churchill's Dream	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Interesting Memoir, lousy history, part II	Michael Woodbine Parish has led an interesting life, and he apparently knows it and wishes to share his experiences with us. He served for most of World War II in the Mediterranean, serving first with the British army on Crete, then with the more irregular MI9 in the Aegean. He was captured by the Germans twice, escaped once, was wounded once and grievously injured on another occasion. The main part of the book discusses these incidents and adventures with some panache, and is reasonably interesting, if a bit amateurish.<br />The problem with the book is that the author can't resist lecturing everyone about politics. It turns out that the chief calamity of the last century was the collapse of the British Empire and Great Britain's loss of status as a World Leader (his caps, not mine). He traces the demise of the British Empire to the war lasting as long as it did, and traces this to President Roosevelt's refusal to be entwined in Churchill's campaigns in the Easter Mediterranean in 1943. He even describes Roosevelt, Eisenhower, and Marshall's decision to not back Churchill as \\"impertinent,\\" as if they were schoolboys disobeying their teacher. There are numerous problems with his supposed scenario for ending World War II two years early, too many to go into. Suffice to say that the author reads everything his own way, and only takes such factors as logistics into account when they support his theories.<br />This lends the book a rather shrill tone, and by the time he's denouncing Nelson Mandela for resisting apartheid, it got to be a bit much for me. I don't think this book should be picked up except by the experienced specialist who wishes to read about Crete and MI9 in the Aegean. Other than that, it's pretty much worthless.	2003-09-07
991048:US	52850806	R3SY0WZEKFHTCY	0425189244	768276217	Savage Run: a Joe Pickett Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Game Warden Detective	This is an interesting series, and Open Season was an interesting first novel. One question I had then was how long the author would be able to sustain the series with some believability, given that the main character is a Game Warden in rural Wyoming. It's not every day that a Game Warden gets involved in a shootout with nasty bad guys who are out to kill someone, out in the wilderness.<br />This time around, Joe Pickett, Game Warden, has been lying low, dealing with his job and the aftermath of his debut book, Open Season. In the opening sequence, a radical environmentalist and his ditzy new bride are blown up by a bomb attached to a cow (sounds strange, but actually it sort of makes sense in the story) and Joe is called to help with the investigation. When it's discovered that no wildlife was killed, he goes on his way, and nothing seems to come of the explosion. Radical environmentalists aren't that well liked in the wilderness: their politics often mean unemployment and poverty for the locals. Then things go kind of sideways, when a local rancher who's a retired personal injury lawyer appears to have poached an elk. Meanwhile, there's a legendary Stock Detective, a descendant of Tom Horn, in deed if not blood, roaming the country with an assistant killing radical environmentalists, like the one he blew up with the cow. As if things aren't complicated enough, the guy blown up by the cow might not be dead, and reporters are questioning Joe Pickett's wife, because she apparently dated the guy in High School. There are other assorted characters wandering in and out of the story.<br />This is a good novel, though the ending is a bit anti-climactic. I enjoyed it, and would recommend it.	2003-09-02
992909:US	52850806	RWVUDIRQAP6ZF	0312989369	849747965	The Hangman's Knot: A Novel (Billy Tree Mysteries)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Odd, disjointed mystery novel	Billy Tree is the hero of Heartland, from a couple of years ago. He's a small-town boy who joined the Secret Service, and became a hero for his actions in a shootout with a lunatic. Unknown to virtually everyone, he completely lost control of himself in the shootout and basically now is a complete coward. He's terrified of guns and confrontations, and will do anything to avoid them, so he's decided to pass his time working as a deputy sheriff in his small hometown. In this second book he goes a long way to avoid things he didn't need to, and gets himself in way over his head when things don't go the way he thinks they will.<br />This book is mostly about a lynching that happened over 50 years before the time the book took place, and the repercussions that result from it, through the years. It involves one whopper of a coincidence, and a lot of misconceptions, mistaken identities, and confused motives. At the end of the book you're still not entirely certain what happened, and it's apparent that the main characters aren't sure either. While the book does have an interesting plot, and some action that keeps it moving, it also can be just annoying. There's a scene where one character repeatedly refers to the \\"weapon\\" because saying anything else would give away to the reader something the author wishes to conceal, for instance. Anyway, I enjoyed the book, but not that much, and I think I'd be wary of recommending it.	2003-08-31
993872:US	52850806	R1A7FXQTMRN0I5	0375706399	151828413	The Book on the Bookshelf	Books	4	23	24	N	N	A book for obsessive bibliophiles	The Book on the Bookshelf is Henry Petroski's sly look at how books are stored, and have been stored for centuries. It's sly, in part, because to tell you this he has to tell you the history of the book itself, and this of course leads him off in different directions. You learn much about not only books, and bookshelves, but scrolls, printing, various sorting systems, printing and spelling conventions over the years, and various other minutiae. If you're interested in this sort of thing, like I was, it's very interesting. I was fascinated to read, for instance, that the British publishing industry changed about a decade ago, and began printing their titles on the spines of books oriented the same way we do it. Previously they had printed the titles upside down (from our point of view) and the two books I'm referring to are old enough to display this. I'd noted it, but never knew why they were like that. Now I do. I'd recommend this book to anyone who's interested in books, publishing, and the history of those things. I will warn you that the author does tend to get into his subject, digress a bit, and run away with his topic now and again, but I generally found this characteristic charming rather than annoying.	2003-08-30
996095:US	52850806	RAUCU3Q8XHRR3	0446612316	859287908	Bad Boy Brawly Brown (Easy Rawlins Mysteries)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Mosley back in his old form	Walter Mosley appears to have written himself into a trap, or something like this. He seems to like the era and the atmosphere of post-war Los Angeles, the setting of the early Easy Rawlins novels. The era seems stark, unforgiving, and at the same time the morality plays that evolve are more black and white (if that's an acceptable turn of phrase) than now. He's done two volumes of short stories that are set in contemporary times, but the author has given them a veneer of racism and anger that at times seems forced, by comparison. In his latest series, he's returned to the forties and what he seems to enjoy. But in the meanwhile, he has to keep the Easy Rawlins fans happy (after all this is his fan base, an important constituency) and he can't keep reverting to Easy's earlier years, like he did in Gone Fishin' a couple of years ago. He needs to move forward.<br />The result is Bad Boy Brawly Brown, a very good entry in the series, following Easy through the streets of 1964 Watts and Compton, as he searches for the son of a friend's girlfriend. The son is a big, strong, not-very-smart young man who's been taken in by the Black Power movement of the sixties, and it seems that there's trouble brewing. A few pages into the book, looking for the boy, Easy stumbles onto a dead body, and then finds himself fleeing the police. The book then follows Easy while he delves into the affairs of the First Men, a fictional group (I believe) that looks a bit like the Black Panthers, and crossing paths with gunrunners, women of easy virtue, old friends from Texas, thieves, and working people who inhabit the black neighborhoods of Los Angeles in 1964. <br />I enjoyed this book a great deal, and it's well worth the wait.	2003-08-28
998746:US	52850806	R2L12EZ79BDRLI	0670032204	842385664	Robert E. Lee (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Excellent short bio of a military enigma	Several generals of the American Civil war are enigmas, to various extents. Thomas J. (Stonewall) Jackson, for instance, is very difficult to read, because he left so little in the way of letters or whatever that tell you anything of what he was thinking. Robert E. Lee was equally close-mouthed about this sort of thing, and amazingly stiff and standoffish with most male acquaintances and friends, to boot. The result is that we know very little of what he thought or felt about a variety of things, and must piece together opinions from various sources.<br />So it was with some trepidation that I approached the Penguin Lives version of Robert E. Lee. These are intended to be very short biographies: sketches rather than anything detailed. In addition to the fact that it's a short book, the series editor took a chance and commissioned Roy Blount Jr. to write the book. Blount is a Southerner (though he lives mostly in the North now) who writes newspaper columns and books, and is generally what's called a humorist. He also appears on the radio. This is (as far as I know) his first venture into real non-fiction (as opposed to funny stuff that's based on reality) and I'll admit I was some what curious and a bit apprehensive as to what he would do with the book. I needn't have worried.<br />Blount is an accomplished writer (obviously) and does a good job of outlining Lee's life and career. He's also a Southerner, and understands the mystic attachment people of the south have for their culture and society, and recreates what things must have been like for Lee in the mid-19th century. The military aspects of Lee's life are dealt with only in outline (as you would expect in a book with ca. 170 pages of text, but they're explained in enough detail that you get the gist of what's happening. There's a fair amount of information on Lee's life, little of it new, but much of interpreted in a fashion different at least in nuance from previous biographers.<br />Unusually, Blount relegates his speculation about Lee, his character, and such things as his sexuality, to an appendix labeled \\"Speculation.\\" This is very unusual in a biography, and I would encourage other writers to use a similar device. While I didn't agree with every one of Blount's judgments, I could see how he came to the conclusions, anyway. On that note, I enjoyed the book a great deal, and think it valuable, in spite of its small size.	2003-08-26
999264:US	52850806	R2TR4OITNN9AGL	1400031362	405618230	Morality for Beautiful Girls (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Interesting, but not quite as engaging	Morality for Beautiful Girls is the third in the No.1 Ladies' Detective Agency series, a wonderful group of novels that feature a woman from Botswana, of all places, who's a private detective in the country's capital. In this third installment, she's confronted with several problems, both personal and from her business, and solves them all, as best she can. She has an assistant, and that lady also does her part, solving problems too, sometimes even when they seem to be something she can't do anything about.<br />Smith has a wonderful way with words and phrases, and seems to recreate the country and the prose that the people speak there wonderfully. The several main characters are interesting, and of course it's important to note that these really aren't mysteries, in the sense of Agatha Christie or Raymond Chandler. Instead, they're mainly morality plays, with characters and action that are very tame. So far, there hasn't been a murder in the books, just various suspicious goings-on, and things that need to be found out. Often, the wrong-doer is caught, but judged not worthy of punishment for some reason, and released with the injunction to be more honest or good in the future. It's very strange, to say the least, and considering these books mysteries is more than a bit misleading.<br />I enjoyed all three of the books that I've read, but this one is the weakest of the three. For some reason the pace is slower, and the plots are somewhat less interesting. Or perhaps it's just that I've already read something like this twice, and it's not so fresh the third time. I'm not certain which, but I am not quite as enthusiastic about this book as I am about the other two. However, I do recommend it.	2003-08-25
1001588:US	52850806	R3AKKY95ZF0ISM	0446611476	653149712	Stone Kiss (Peter Decker/Rina Lazarus)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Long mystery less suspense, more atmosphere	Faye Kellerman has been writing these stories for about a decade and a half now, since just a few years after her husband started. I think he was first, but I'm not sure. Anyway, her stories have gotten more character and atmosphere-driven, compared with his, because she chose to make her character an Orthodox Jew (both of the Kellermans are, to my understanding, also Orthodox Jews). This gives her something to work with other than the mystery/suspense plot, and serves her well (husband Jonathan has been concentrating on his main character's sidekick, the gay detective Milo Sturgis, in recent books, perhaps because of this). I should explain that the main character, Peter Decker, is an LAPD Homicide cop. He grew up knowing he was adopted, but it wasn't til adulthood that he discovered that his birth mother was Jewish. Coincidentally he met a beautiful woman who was an Orthodox Jew, and wound up converting to that faith and marrying her. This makes for a complicated plot, as Decker has both a birth family (Jewish, and living in New York) and an adoptive family (Gentile, living in Florida). Members of both families appear in the book, and make things complicated.<br />Decker's birth half-brother calls him in the dead of night to inform him that his (the half-brother's) wife's brother has been murdered in a seedy hotel room in New York City. He was supposedly with his niece (though he shouldn't have been in a hotel room with her, seedy or not). Instead, there are drugs in the room, and no sign of the fifteen year old niece. The brother-in-law asks Decker (in a bit of a stretch) to come to New York City from LA and try and help straighten things out. Decker agrees.<br />Ultimately, Decker's whole family travels to New York to visit and shop (his wife) and do detective work (Decker). I won't go into any of the details of the plot, other than to tell you that it's interesting, if a bit slow. There are characters from previous books, and various plot devices, that are allfun, in my opinion. I enjoyed reading about the neighborhoods in the city, the Jews (and others) that inhabit them, and so forth. There's much about Orthodox Jews and their thinking and attitudes, and it's fascinating.<br />I would say that if you want a fast-paced mystery you should probably look elsewhere, though this one does end in an interesting gunfight that concludes rather differently from most. I enjoyed the book, because	2003-08-23
1002925:US	52850806	R1XYPU6OKADOJE	0312904770	999577244	Tumult in the Clouds	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Superior memoir of WW2 in the air	James A. Goodson was one of the better aces in the USAAF in WW2, and shot down about 35 enemy planes in Europe 1941-4. He was himself shot down not long after Normandy, and spent the remaining days of the war in a POW camp. He recounts his experiences in the war, fighting the Luftwaffe in the air, but there are several differences between this book and others of its type.<br />For one thing, Goodson had a unique perspective on the war in Europe. He was on the Athenia, a passenger ship that was sunk on September 3rd 1939, and with typical mid-20th Century bravado swore vengeance against the evil men who had done this. Frankly, for this passage alone, it's a wonder no one has made this into a movie. He was rescued by a pair of teenage girls, both American, who were in their bras and panties and had to abandon ship like that. Anyway, he joined the RCAF, and wound up in one of the Eagle Squadrons just after the Battle of Britain. He served briefly with Stanford Tuck, and then with a succession of famous and not-so-famous aces during the next years, including Don Gentile and Don Blakeslee.<br />The real unusual thing about the book is its structure. Most memoirs are a recounting of a particular individual, and they tend to be very personal and somewhat opinionated, by their nature. Goodson's book isn't without opinions, but they're stated in such a way that you don't feel he has any animosity towards those who disagreed with him. Moreover, the heart of the book is a series of portraits of the men he served with, aces who aren't that well known and who didn't survive the war. These portraits are very well-done, enough so that you wonder why the author hasn't written a book before. The effect is quite good, and I would guess that the men involved would be grateful that someone finally noticed their sacrifice.<br />This is a very good book, and highly recommended.	2003-08-22
1003064:US	52850806	R3422MV3DO6IHQ	0140292594	363901167	Breakout: The Chosin Reservoir Campaign, Korea 1950	Books	2	27	31	N	N	Annoying and one-sided	Breakout attempts to retell the story of the Chosen Reservoir campain, which has been told many times in the past. Martin Russ is a veteran of the USMC who served later in the Korean War, and he carries with him all of the prejudices and sentiments that go along with that. You expect him to think the Marine Corps is the best fighting force in the world, but the animosity is stronger than that, in some way.<br />It's important to understand what this book is and isn't. It isn't a history of the campaign in any real way. There are no footnotes, and the bibliography is two pages long and consists of only published sources, plus interviews. The maps are mostly useless, and don't convey much of what happened in the campaign. This isn't really a history book, it's an oral history book.<br />This means that the bulk of what you read is narratives by the participants, what they saw and did in particular situations. Much of the book consists of paragraphs that start with a person's name, followed by a colon, then a passage in quotation marks. There's little attempt to place the remarks in context or critically examine them and compare them, anything that would make this a more analytical history. Instead, you hear the various narrators, almost all of them Marines, tell you what the battle was like.<br />There's also almost no attention paid to either the Korean participants in the campaign, and what space is devoted to the civilians in the area is almost all in terms of what the Marines thought of them. There's virtually nothing on the Communist Chinese Forces either, I guess since Russ (and anyone else) can't get into the Communist Chinese archives. As a result there's pretty much nothing new here, and you have to wonder why the author wrote the book.<br />The reviewers who complain about the attitude of the author with regards to the army are generally correct. I found the information on Task Force Faith getting its Presidential Unit Citation rather easily on the internet.Since the Citation was awarded in 2000, and the book was published in 2002, it's hard to imagine that they couldn't have put in a postscript, if not in the hardback then in the paperback edition issued a year later. Instead, the author includes a passage where a Marine tells you that Lt.Col. Faith (commander of Task Force Faith) didn't deserve his posthumous Medal of Honor.<br />The anti-army attitude is pretty much the whole tenor of the book, and there are a few aspects of it which are particularly annoying. For one thing, the author works hard to tell you which members of the army were cowards in a number of instances, but is suitably coy when telling you of the few Marine cowards. Later, he suggests that Lt.Col. Faith was racist because he shot a pair of Korean soldiers, who were attached to his force, for cowardice. He makes almost no mention of the Marine's repetitive usage of the term \\"gook\\" though, and repeats an incident where the Marines kill some Korean civilians without comment. When the army lets the Marines down, it's inexcusable. When Marine Corsairs hit Task Force Faith with napalm by accident, nothing similar is said.<br />I do think this book has some value, if only because it reflects the attitudes of the Marines at Chosen Reservoir. The only problem with this is that it's been done before, repeatedly, and the author has made no effort to update his material.	2003-08-22
1005721:US	52850806	R2JN2PXBOHIE0Y	0399149295	41838335	Blood Orchid (Holly Barker No. 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Holly Barker again	This is another of Stuart Woods' mysteries, this time following the adventures of his female-army-MP-turned-small-town-police-chief, Holly Barker. Orchid Beach is a small town with about a hundred murders a year to liven things up a bit (or so it seems) and it's had special problems with a development outside of town that mobsters tried to use to smuggle money out of the country. In this installment, more violence ensues, and Holly has to figure out who's trying to kill her, or bug her phone, or whatever. Daisy the Dog returns (still fetching beer from the fridge when commanded) and is joined by a cute undercover FBI agent, an interesting handsome older man, several vicious criminals (including one wielding an Uzi in one hand and a pizza in the other), and an assortment of various characters.<br />Woods has gotten to the point now where he doesn't write the story much any more, he just lets you imagine what's happening, or what people look like or think. There's not much character development outside of the actions they take, and the dialog tends to be very clipped and concise. There isn't that much meat to the story either (I figured out who the bad guy was about halfway through the story, well before Holly does), but it's fun anyway. For one thing, Woods has a wonderful way of making the story hum along so that you're turning the pages constantly and getting to the next chapter. For another, there's something to be said for keeping things concise. Robert B. Parker's made a living at it for several decades now.	2003-08-20
1008912:US	52850806	R23QVAL36SX1OY	039915079X	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Jack Ryan Jr.	Tom Clancy has been writing suspense novels for a good long while now. Most feature Jack Ryan, the CIA analyst who runs afoul of the IRA in Patriot Games, the Columbian drug cartels in Clear and Present Danger, and the Soviets and the Arabs repeatedly in other books. Lately, the focus has been on Arab terrorists and their ability to penetrate into the U.S. and kill American citizens.<br />The Teeth of the Tiger's title comes from a saying one of the main characters intones early in the book: \\"If you want to kick the tiger in the ass, you'd better have a plan for dealing with his teeth.\\" This is, essentially, the plot of the book. Several Arabs are part of an organization suspiciously similar to Al Quaeda, but run by a shadowy figure known only as the Emir. These individuals make a deal with the Columbian drug cartels, helping them smuggle cocaine into Europe in return for assistance in getting a large team of terrorists into the U.S. The result is a bloodbath, and the U.S. must respond, quickly. The response comes from an unlikely source: a financial institution set up in the waning days of Jack Ryan's presidency (he's left office before the opening of this book) and set up to *make* money, and use it to spy on people who might be a threat to our national security. This having been established, the next step is to neutralize the bad guys---i.e. to kill them.<br />We follow the organization as it moves towards its goals. The main characters are Jack Ryan's son Jack Jr., and two cousins of his, twins named Caruso. One's a Marine officer just back from Afghanistan, the other an FBI agent just out of Quanticol Together the three of them are set onto the trail of the terrorist organization and do what they're supposed to do. It's enjoyable to watch.<br />Clancy has gotten very good at this sort of thing the last decade or so. Originally the writing in his books wasn't that good, but it's gotten considerably better, and his characters are fun, also. Of course his forte has always been plotting, and this novel has some twists and turns that are pretty fun. There's one big coincidence, which you have to accept to make one scene in the middle work, but it's so satisfying to watch that you almost instinctively do. The ending is similarly satisfying, and I must say I enjoyed it. I would recommend this book, and say I thought it good.	2003-08-17
1013346:US	52850806	RDMXMD1N7Z8SJ	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	5	0	0	N	N	You have to wonder...	You have to wonder how a person such as J.K. Rowling spent her time prior to writing these books. I gather she was divorced, raising a small son (in a stroller) and writing in a local cafe. How did she go as long as she did without anyone knowing about the talent she had? Didn't anyone in her school (perhaps a teacher) notice the skill and imagination that goes into her writing? Well, anyway, on to the discussion of the book.<br />In this second installment in the series, Harry Potter is now on summer break, staying with his aunt and uncle, and their fat and horribly spoiled son. The Dursleys (their son is named Dudley, of all things) hate Harry, the memory of his parents, and all things magical, so naturally they keep their nephew in a closet under the stairs. When Harry escapes their clutches the second time, to visit friends first and then go back to Hogwarts, the magic college, the adventure begins.<br />There are mysterious things going on, though. A house elf tries to stop Harry from returning to Hogwarts, and when he arrives back at school, almost immediately students begin to appear, petrified, literally almost turned to stone. Harry's mysteriously attacked while playing Quidditch, his favorite game. And he has the start of an annoying occurence, a fan club. Even worse, there's a fraudulent wizard at the school who's supposed to be teaching \\"Defense against the Black Arts\\" and instead is mainly interested in increasing his own popularity and signing copies of his best-selling books.<br />The adventure is fun, the characters are interesting, and you can see where parts of it are taken from other classics, reworked, and incorporated into the story. One odd note, which detracts (I think, anyway) from the British feel of the story. The spelling and punctuation are Americanized, for some reason. I'm not sure why someone would bother with this. Perhaps it's because the book's mostly for children? Regardless, I enjoyed it a great deal anyway.	2003-08-13
1013503:US	52850806	R3TC5UWZ1ILAQ2	0142002801	435949952	The Fall of Berlin 1945	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Not much good, lots of bad, way too much ugly	World War II lasted five and a half years in Europe, and many of the participants suffered greatly in the conflict. Ironically, among the worst of the sufferers were the Germans themselves, who after all started the war, and had no objections to the sufferings of civilians as long as they weren't German. This book chronicles the chickens coming home to roost, so to speak, the last gasp of the Nazi regime in Germany, and the sufferings of the German people who were in the path of the Soviet juggernaut that destroyed that Nazi empire.<br />The author comes in for some criticism from some of the reviewers on this site because he talks candidly about the abuses that Soviet soldiers inflicted on their Germans victims, especially the rapes that occurred as the Red Army marched across eastern Germany. No one argues whether this happened or not, and the statistics are staggering. Millions of German women were raped (and some Jews, and some Russian women who had been deported to Germany as slave labor) and a large number of civilians of all ages and both sexes were killed in various ways. This is all reported in considerable horrific detail, and if there's a lack of balance here it's because the Nazis didn't, by this time, have the chance to inflict any more atrocities on their opponents.<br />The military half of the campaign is handled reasonably well, though not in as much detail as some (perhaps myself included) would like. Antony Beevor isn't David Glantz, and that cuts both ways. The tactical detail is lacking, but Beevor's prose is perhaps somewhat more readable. I enjoyed this book, or at least feel I gained something from it. I will agree with the criticism that there's nothing new here, though some of the information hasn't been gathered together in a book like this before. So John Toland's book might be comparable, but he didn't have access to the information about the fate of Hitler's body, for instance.<br />Other than that, this is a serviceable, competent account of the campaign, not particularly enlightening, but a good book nonetheless. I would recommend it.	2003-08-12
1017381:US	52850806	R1YO5OCNLA0SCM	0345461924	846543535	Six Days of War: June 1967 and the Making of the Modern Middle East	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Good diplomatic history, less well done on the military side	There are many histories of parts or all of the conflicts in the Middle East. In this book the author ambitiously tries to write the complete history of the Six Day War and its legacy in the politics of the region. The result, while generally good, is a bit uneven.<br />For one thing, while the context of the war is wonderfully covered from a diplomatic viewpoint, it's not very well done from a military one. You get almost nothing on training, equipment, recruitment, organization, or the personalities of the military commanders involved, and the chapters that deal with the war itself are rather brief. The maps that accompany the text are rather unclear and don't reflect the text very well (the map of the Golan Heights shows Israeli units advancing after the text says the war stopped, with no explanation). This is unfortunate, given the context into which the war is placed.<br />The diplomatic part of the book is the part that really shines. The war had a strange context, and (as has been pointed out elsewhere) this is pretty well examined, except for the Syrian angle, which remains mostly a mystery. The Egyptians and Soviets are an interesting pair, and the miscalculations that the U.S. and Israelis made in trying to interpret the actions of these and other nations are very interesting. The point to this part of the book, beyond the actual explanation of the circumstances that led up to the war, is that diplomatic maneuvers can be misinterpreted, and that can lead to further complications.<br />There's also a final chapter on the aftermath of the war, which includes the fascinating fact that the English version of U.N. resolution 242 differs from the French and Arabic version, and that the difference implies that Israel can (or can't) keep part of the occupied territories when things are concluded. This misunderstanding, or deliberate misstatement, has led to much grief since.<br />I enjoyed this book, but the military parts were not as satisfying as the diplomaticones. I still do recommend it for the diplomatic context for the war.	2003-08-09
1020327:US	52850806	R1GMA0VV0U3CXQ	0375712925	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Truly Awesome	Some years ago I read &quot;Reflections of an Affirmative Action Baby&quot; by Stephen L. Carter. It's a memoir and an opinion piece, discussing how Affirmative Action influenced his life (he got into school because of it) and how it has influenced our culture and society since then. The book concludes that Affirmative Action should now end, because there are enough opportunities for everyone to succeed, even poor black people. It's an interesting book.<br />In the years since, Carter has made a name for himself writing opinion pieces on the political discourse in the nation. None of them precisely engage a particular political figure: rather, they all tackle a subject, and render the author's verdict on the situation. Carter self-identifies as a liberal, but actually ranks with Shelby Steele, Tammy Bruce, and Christina Hoff Sommers, as a liberal who's listened to by conservatives much more than by people on their side of the aisle. He's more prolific than Steele, less polemic than Bruce, and probably closest to Sommers in tone and thoughtfulness. Now he's turned to writing fiction, and the transformation is marvelous.<br />This book is billed as a 600+ page suspense novel. This is true, but somewhat deceptive. Although there are chase scenes, shootouts, murders, surprises, and mystery galore in this story, there is so much more that's not part of the normal mystery/suspense genre that it would be patently unfair to talk on just that level. First, the picture of the upper middle-class blacks, living in &quot;the Gold Coast&quot; in Washington D.C., and in their own neighborhood on Martha's Vineyard, is wonderfully rendered and pretty much unique in American fiction.<br />Second, there's an amazing cast of characters here, from the narrator, Talcott Garland, a law professor who teaches at a university suspiciously similar to Yale, where the author himself teaches. He has a large family, full of siblings, parents, and cousins, all with diverse and interesting personalities, and each with their part to play in the story. There are also colleagues, friends, and competitors of Garland and his wife, and each of them, too, is wonderfully rendered, from a lesbian colleague to a Supreme Court Justice who's a friend of the family to an old law partner of Talcott's father. And lastly there's the cast of conspirators, many of whom remain mysterious throughout the book. Some are good, some bad, some you're not so sure about, some you never really find out.<br />Next, the author does a wonderful job of rendering the setting that the characters populate. Someone picking up the book and seeing it is 600+ pages in length might imagine that there's a lot of plot here, to fill those pages, a sort of Ludlum-with-lawyers. Actually, while there is a good deal of plot, it's not on that level at all. Instead, there are marvelous descriptions of everywhere the narrator goes, from Martha's Vineyard to D.C. to the university town where he teaches. Descriptions of what the characters eat, where they go, who they see, etc., are everywhere in the book, and wonderfully done. You get the feeling you've been there by the time you're done with the book.<br />I will tell you nothing of the plot, as some of the other reviewers have done, because I don't want to spoil it for you. Suffice it to say that Talcott (the narrator) has been charged with unravelling a secret that his recently dead father has left for only him to find. There are others, however, who either want the secret found, or want it destroyed. This makes for a wonderful puzzle, and an amazing story. I can't recommend this book highly enough, and hope everyone reads it.	2003-08-07
1024737:US	52850806	R2865F0PWEI8WW	0465007201	758212963	The Savage Wars Of Peace: Small Wars And The Rise Of American Power	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Upsetting the Conventional Wisdom	Max Boot has written a fascinating critique of the current thinking in the United States on the subject of overseas military adventures. Instead of talking mostly about Viet Nam, and its impact on our thinking in the years since, he looks at the history of our military interventions over the last 200 years or so, and concludes that we intervened regularly in various countries around the world. Most of these interventions, it turns out, were relatively inexpensive in lives lost, and successful, at least as long as they lasted.<br />The author begins this book with a survey of our interventions in the first century of our existence, then moves to a second section where the interventions get more extensive and comprehensive. He calls this second stage of American history our &quot;empire,&quot; and he's not afraid to use the word. After this there's a chapter on Viet Nam, and then an analysis of the Powell Doctrine (which tries to counterbalance the Viet Nam syndrome) as it relates to the current situation in the world.<br />His look at the various interventions of the 19th and 20th centuries is fascinating. Boot has a talent for writing prose and bringing characters to life, and his sketches of the various individuals in the military (primarily the Marine Corps and the Navy) who carried out these operations is very good. The descriptions of the operations themselves is also interesting, if somewhat disconcerting to liberals who've learned their history from modern professors. For one thing he insists that most of the interventions in our history weren't prompted by financial interests in Wall Street. Instead, moral questions would rise, or American citizens (often missionaries) would ask for protection. The interventions themselves would often result in such things as a drop in the disease rate (as the Americans made everyone bury their garbage and sewage) and better education. Unfortunately, these things didn't take in most of these countries, because the Marines departed after a few months or years.<br />I have to say I got a little tired of Boot's writing. It's a sort of odd phenomenon. I enjoyed the book right up until the end of the imperial era, when he began to talk about Viet Nam. This section I enjoyed also, but mostly for the facts, not the writing. For one thing, Boot, a magazine writer, brought this style of writing to his book in this chapter. This means there were many choppy, incomplete sentences. While this is fine in an opinion piece about President Bush or something, it's a bit strange in a book of this sort.<br />Overall I thought this a good book, and look forward to what Mr. Boot will produce next.	2003-08-03
1029762:US	52850806	R234X4GJ544QV7	1400031354	405618230	Tears of the Giraffe (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Book 2)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Truly Amazing	I read The No.1 Ladies' Detective Agency a few weeks ago, and thought it a very good book. This second installment from Law Professor Smith is perhaps even better, and had me chuckling and guffawing at various passages. Strangely, since I enjoy mysteries, there's less mystery here (basically only two plots, neither of them very mysterious) but you wind up not caring because the characters are so much fun.<br />Precious Ramotswe runs a detective agency in Gabarone, the capital of Botswana. She's a &quot;traditionally built&quot; woman with traditional values, too. She's also got a very modern job, working as a detective in Africa, and investigating things. At the beginning of this book, she's accepted the marriage proposal of Mr. J.L.B Matekoni, owner of Tlokweng Road Speedy Motors, and there are many complications that ensue, especially when some orphans are adopted into the family.<br />One of the writing tricks that the author uses to give the story quaintness is his use of names. You only read Precious Ramotswe's first name once or twice per book. Instead she's referred to as Mma Ramotswe, the Mma apparently being Mrs. in Botswana. Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni is never referred to as anything else, anywhere in the book, and their respective businesses, the No.1 Ladies's Detective Agency and Tlokweng Road Speedy Motors, are both only referred to by their full names. The result is a sort of quaint pride in accomplishment, tempered with a slightly ridiculous feeling to things. After all, there aren't *two* ladies' detective agencies in Botswana.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book, and will read the third one soon. The fourth I may wait for paperback (or I may not). But this one's definitely worth the price of admission.	2003-07-30
1036088:US	52850806	R2J5MXYMMGZPAE	0425189430	304004391	Zodiac Unmasked: The Identity of America's Most Elusive Serial Killer Revealed	Books	2	6	11	N	N	PS to my previous review	I just saw a thing on ABC News Primetime last night---Arthur Leigh Allen, by DNA comparison (from his autopsy, and saliva from the flaps of authentic Zodiac letters) isn't the Zodiac killer. Several other suspects were eliminated by DNA comparison also. I guess everyone needs to return to the drawing board.	2003-07-25
1037760:US	52850806	R14AJSAA4V6VF7	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Whoa!!!!!!!!	Let me start this out by saying I don't like Fantasy books. I also don't read children's literature much at all. However I got interested in this series because of the phenomenon of the author going from welfare (in Britain they call it the dole) to richer than the Queen in five years. Really, she did. Also, I'm an advocate of teaching children to read, and was a childhood bookworm and congenital nerd myself. When I saw a boy about 10 sitting in his mom's grocery cart reading a Harry Potter book, I knew I had to find out what all the fuss was about, and so I read the first book in the series. I suspect I'll be reading more.<br />OK, for those who've been on the dark side of the moon for the last half-decade, Harry Potter is the orphaned nephew who lives with the Dursleys, residing under their stairs in a cupboard, constantly pursued by their stupid bully son Dudley. One day he recieves an invitation to go to school, and the school is no ordinary one, it's one for wizards. Harry of course is completely dumfounded (there are wizards?!?) but it's an escape from Dudley, so he goes. When he leaves on his journey, everything changes, and he turns out to have magical powers. The school is set up like a normal one, except the courses are in things like potions and flying. There is of course an adventure, part mystery, to darken the plot and give it suspense.<br />It's amazing how good this book is, given that there's nothing that original here. The Dursleys are stereotypically mean to Harry and spoil Dudley shamelessly, no surprises here. They're fun to read about, however, and the rest of the book is the same. The mystery isn't that complex or involved, and there's nothing that surprising about it, but it's well-done and wonderfully contrived, and you enjoy it in spite of yourself. I think this book pretty much draws you to the sequel, and frankly I think J.K. Rowling deserves every penny, even if she is richer than the Queen.	2003-07-23
1037773:US	52850806	R1C845PZZSCJBF	080782786X	967883985	The Shenandoah Valley Campaign of 1862	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Another essay collection from Gary Gallagher	Back in the mid-90s, Gary W. Gallagher made a name for himself collecting a series of essays on the battle of Gettysburg. They were more than just histories of parts of the battle. For one thing, the authors looked into various parts of the battle that bad been neglected or misinterpreted, and reexamined things that were taken for granted. For another, the authors examined subjects that hadn't been written about before. One essay even looked into the historiography of Pickett's Charge, and why it was viewed the way it was by the participants.<br />Since then Gallagher's been doing these at approximately the rate of one a year. All of the campaigns covered so far have been in the Eastern Theater, and all have been relatively well-covered in more comprehensive books. This volume, dealing primarily with Stonewall Jackson's campaign in the Shenandoah in 1862, is something of a departure for the series. The author admits that there's no comprehensive study of the campaign from both sides, and then apologizes half-heartedly for this entry to the series, which devotes most of its attention to the Confederates. Frankly, I don't think that's neccessary. I'm no Southerner, but to be honest, the Yankees in this campaign aren't that interesting. Stonewall, on the other hand, is fascinating, warts and all.<br />The essays cover a wide range of subjects, and cover them well, for the most part. One deals with Lincoln the war president responding to the crisis in the Valley, another is devoted to Jackson's image and what it meant to the South. One looks at Ashby's image also (this is a common theme in the series, what things meant to the participants, and how they changed history in order to suit their preconceptions), while two other essays examine how the common people looked at the campaign, one following a particular Confederate regiment, the other the civilians in the path of the campaign. Another essay is a brief biography of Charles S. Winder, the commander of the StonewallBrigade for part of the campaign, while the last image deals with the court martial of Richard B. Garnett. Of all the essays, only the Garnett one is inadequate, with the author plowing little new ground, and basically rehashing what we already know: Jackson couldn't stand to be contradicted, even when he was demonstrably wrong.<br />The series has gotten away from the battlefield pretty much entirely now. I'm not sure I like this development. I did like it that the series spent some time paying attention to things that weren't directly related to the fighting, but I also enjoyed the battlefield analysis. I'm afraid I am a bit perturbed that Gallagher has gone as far as he has. That doesn't however mean I don't recommend the book; just that I wish he would balance things a bit more.	2003-07-23
1043607:US	52850806	R13TBI9W009DUM	0786867175	590874516	Leap of Faith: Memoirs of an Unexpected Life	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Excellent Memoir, Lousy History	Queen Noor is an interesting woman, and this book has generated a lot of interest here in the States, because of her storybook romance with the King of Jordan, Hussein, and because she has a good deal of influence as a result of her marriage. She has also garnered much attention, of course, because she's the former Lisa Halaby, of one quarter Arab descent, an American citizen who married a King. This book is basically a memoir of the two decades she spent with this man, and of his struggle for peace.<br />Hussein was an interesting character, and that part of the book is its strength. He ascended to the throne at 17, and was married thrice before Noor, once to an Englishwoman. Hussein and Noor reigned over Jordan until his death from cancer in 1999. They had several children together, and she oversaw the household of his children from previous marriages.<br />When she became Queen, she became a Muslim, also, and decided that she would take an active role in her country's infrastructure in addition to being Queen officially. We get a detailed account of her various dealings trying to change the economic structure of the country, empowering women and giving them jobs, that sort of thing. It's all very interesting if you're into that sort of thing.<br />We also get a very one-sided, superficial version of the dispute between the Palestinians and Israel, replete with stereotypical silly arguments that are repeated as if they're true. Strangely, she recognizes a silly Israeli rumor (that the former Palestine was essentially empty when the first Zionist settlers arrived) but repeats several \\"truths\\" that are no such thing, but very favorable to the Arab cause. It's a bit much at times.<br />Because of this, my review of the book is very mixed. If you wish to read the storybook romance part of things, this is a good book; if you wish to read a book on Middle East politics, I would recommend almost anything else.	2003-07-19
1044855:US	52850806	R1ZMWHTG9UAZKK	0446611816	505534631	Secret Sanction	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Military legal thriller	Brian Haig is the sond of the former Secretary of State. This is his first book (though I read Mortal Allies a while back) and it's a good book, a complex thriller involving international politics and military operations.<br />Major Sean Drummund, the main character, is an army lawyer assigned to investigate what appears to be a massacre of Serbian soldiers. The army is running a semi-covert operation inside Bosnia, with Green Beret teams advising Albanians in nearby Kosovo in the fine art of guerilla warfare so they can fight off their Serbian oppressors. One of the Green Beret teams discovers that the Albanians they were training have all been killed, and they ambush a vehicle convoy in retaliation and kill 35 Serbian soldiers. The difficulty is that almost all of the Serbians have been shot once in the head, just to make sure. This could constitute a war crime.<br />When Drummond is first assigned to the case, he gets a lot of on-the-record  covering from his superiors, and a lot of behind the scenes pressure to make sure the whole problem goes away. However, he's a stubborn character, pretty much born into the military, and he insists on taking his own path and finding the truth. When a reporter shows up to try and follow the case, and is almost immediately killed, things get complicated even more. And naturally there's a girl, and Drummond can't decide if she's on his side or not.<br />This is a good first effort, and while it's not going to win any awards, if you like this kind of book you could find many worse things to spend your weekend with.	2003-07-18
1054397:US	52850806	RSAKLW1EMNX10	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Detailed look at the Bully Presidency	Edmund Morris has had an interesting career as a writer. A native Rhodesian (the African country dominated by whites, and replaced by the currently unstable Zimbabwe) he emigrated first to South Africa, then Britain, finally the United States. He then became a full time writer, and for his first book, \\"The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt\\" won a Pulitzer for biography. He was then appointed Reagan's official biographer (Reagan read the previous book and liked it) and produced \\"Dutch\\", a worthwhile addition to the library of books about Reagan, but one that will remain controversial because of the way Morris treated the subject, and the format in which he wrote the book.<br />Morris's next book is the current one being reviewed, \\"Theodore Rex.\\" This book covers his presidency, from the succession to the office on the death of William McKinley to his leaving office seven and a half years later. There is a great deal of detail about his life in office, his relations with his family and contemporaries, and the legislative issues that confronted him. The author, while pro-Roosevelt, isn't blindly so. There are instances in the book where he clearly disagrees with what the President did, and is critical of him in consequence. Most notable is the Brownsville Texas incident, where Roosevelt and the high command of the army decided that some black soldiers were guilty of rioting on the streets of that city, and the president decided to cashier the whole unit from the army without court martial or anything.<br />Other characters of the administration are well-drawn and interesting. These include Elihu Root, who held various cabinet positions, and could earn more money on Wall Street, John Hay, who had been personal secretary to Abraham Lincoln forty years before and seen three presidents be assasinated, William Howard Taft, the overweight Secretary of War Roosevelt chose as his successor, and Oliver Wendell Holmes, the Supreme Court Justice who wasn't quite as dependable on cases before the court as Roosevelt thought he was.<br />The issues of the day are carefully delineated in enough detail to satisfy the reader and still not be boring. The coal miner's strike, the Great White Fleet, various war scares, the negotiations that ended the Russo-Japanese War, all are dealt with carefully, and intelligently. The whole of Roosevelt's presidency is here, and interesting.<br />I do have a few issues. The author has an unusual pedigree (see above) and it shows in his penchant for using strange words and phrases. Some of them (a lame duck congress quacking its last, for instance) are amusing, but others are just weird. Nouns become adverbs, sentences are long or clumsy, and it's occasionally difficult to tell what the author meant by something. Also, the way the book is constructed is sort of strange. The author uses short, choppy sections at points to illustrate things. And lastly, the author recounts events and occurances that don't seem to have much, or anything, to do with Roosevelt. One anecdote involves Woodrow Wilson telling a racist joke, another recounts briefly the Wright Brothers flying their airplane the first time. One is occasionally left wondering why they're in the book.<br />All in all, though, I enjoyed this book a great deal, and would recommend it.	2003-07-10
1057266:US	52850806	RO2BJK6DBC6R6	0451184769	285712082	Reprisal	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Dissappointing	I've read a couple of other books by Mitchell Smith. If memory serves correctly, I read Daydreams, Stone City, and Karma. Stone City was excellent (about a small town History Prof in jail for drunk driving, who must discover which of his prisonmates is a serial killer who's offing the prisoners) and the other two were good. Unfortunately, this latest book is something of a departure for him, and mostly a disaster.<br />For one thing, while it's supposed to be a suspense novel, there was, strangely, no suspense. It wasn't that I guessed the ending so much as I didn't care. The plot involves a main character, Joanna Reed, who writes poetry and teaches at a small liberal arts college in New England. At the beginning of the book her husband is killed. We know he's been murdered because it's narrated for us, and we know how the killer did the deed. The killer is a young woman named Charis, and though we know how she did it, we're not supposed to know why. The problem is that there are only a few possibilites as to motive, and one becomes likely and obvious rather quickly. Charis moves on to kill the remainder of Joanna's family, one by one, and then tries to befriend her. This goes on for the best part of 400 pages.<br />Unfortunately, there was nothing to make the story worthwhile. The characters are somewhat interesting, but the suspense is robbed from the story. One side plot has Joanna (the widow) becoming convinced that fishermen must have killed her husband because he saw them smuggling marijuana. This is interesting, except there's not much suspense---we know they didn't kill him, and we know they won't kill her (because the book's about halfway over at that point, can't have a book without a main character). As a result, it winds up being a pointless plot device that goes nowhere.<br />I can't recommend this book, and Smith goes on the list of \\"maybes\\" for now.	2003-07-08
1064219:US	52850806	R39K3I9UGLWS94	0395867614	702211299	Gettysburg	Books	5	136	143	N	N	Sears does Gettysburg	There are two Civil War writers who concentrate on the Eastern Theater of the war, and are prominent enough to garner attention outside their field. One is Stephen W. Sears, the other is Noah Andre Trudeau. Sears has concentrated on the first half of the war, mostly writing about the campaigns of George McClellan, while Trudeau has worked in the last half of the war, making a name for himself as the best-known chronicler of Grant's Overland Campaign in 1864. Last year, Trudeau presented us with Gettysburg: A Testing of Courage, a long and very good account of the battle and its consequences. It seems these two historians have met in the middle of the war, because we are now presented with Stephen W. Sears' simply titled Gettysburg.<br />Sears is a different writer than Trudeau, and he presents the battle in a different fashion, the book in a different manner. While Trudeau's book is long and dense (no illustrations, ca. 600 pages of text), Sears' book is considerably shorter, and more accessible. It has illustrations, either photographs of the participants or artwork done by participants or witnesses. Since they take up space on the page, and I would judge the font to be a point or two larger, my guess is this book is a good 25% shorter than Trudeau's. That makes it more accessible (as does the inclusion of illustrations, one shortcoming of Trudeau's book) and easier to read. It's not, however, a book for beginners.<br />Sears is of course interested in the battle and why it came out the way it did, not just recounting what happened during the fighting. He echoes many of Trudeau's judgements, differs with some others, but makes some of his own. Most of his verdict on the battle and the performance of the generals involved is nothing new to Civil War buffs, and won't make fans of R.E. Lee happy. Each of the generals who were active on the battlefield gets some treatment of his effect on the battle.<br />One illuminating section was on the Military Intelligence branchHooker had set up, which Meade kept, called the Bureau of Military Information. The officers in charge of this kept track of intelligence, assimilated, evaluated, and sorted it, and presented it to Meade regularly during the campaign. Lee had no such organization, and of course Stuart, who performed some of the duties involved, was away riding around the Union army. This provided Meade with a considerable advantage: he knew which Confederate troops were on the battlefield, and was aware he would be facing an attack led by Pickett's division on the third day, because the B.M.I. hadn't interrogated any prisoners from that division yet. Lee, by contrast, fought the battle under the impression that only part of the Union army was on the battlefield, because the Confederates didn't do the same thing.<br />In direct comparison with Trudeau, Sears is perhaps a bit of a better writer, but Trudeau provides more detail. Sears' narrative is sorted conventionally, with the fighting on a particular part of the battlefield being dealt with before he moves on to the next portion. The author even puts the cavalry action to the east of Gettysburg, and Farnsworth's charge, into an after-the-battle chapter, recounting them after telling the story of Pickett's charge, even though the cavalry fight took place before. Trudeau spends a lot of time dealing with individual regimental colonels, and their fights: Sears largely confines himself to brigade commanders. Both books try to place the battle in the larger context of the Civil War and American history. Both books discuss, briefly, the Gettysburg Address.<br />So, which book do you buy? I would think buffs of the battle or the war will want both. If you're a general reader who wishes to read something on the battle itself, Sears' book is more accessible than Trudeau's because of length and illustrations, but that's the only real difference between the two.	2003-07-02
1069927:US	52850806	R1A0AFW164926A	0345413903	521290095	The Murder Book (Alex Delaware)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Kellerman's best in a while	I first read Jonathan Kellerman when his first book, \\"When the Bough Breaks\\" came out in paperback. I've been following him pretty closely ever since. He's a good story teller, and his first person narratives, at their best, are wonderful updates of the old Raymond Chandler novel from the forties. I like Steven King's line about how Kellerman had saved the Private eye novel when it was just about dead as a literary form.<br />Given that, Kellerman's been somewhat dissappointing lately. The last several books have featured weak plots that were difficult to follow, and which had hooks (unexplained puzzles to get Alex interested in the case) which were never resolved at the end of the plot. He also has gotten long in his stories, averaging about 500 pages these days. (In answer to the one reviewer who asked why they stopped editing him, most writers don't like to be edited, or edited much, by strangers in a publisher's office. They probably stopped out of fear he'd find another publisher.) And so things have gotten a bit stale.<br />This novel's different. For one thing, while Alex Delaware narrates, the chapters alternate into Milo Sturgis investigating the case, complete with comments on his friend Alex, and what a pain he can be. This is kind of jarring when it first occurs (Kellerman has only ever done one non-first person novel before, the non-Delaware Butcher's Theater) and there's no indication that it's going to happen, or explanation for it. It just occurs. Fortunately, Milo is a fun character, and holds this end of the book up quite well.<br />For those who aren't aware, Milo Sturgis is Alex Delaware's alter ego. He's a big bear of a man, shambling and somewhat sloppy, profane, bitter, and somewhat cynical, and gay. This last is one of the most fun things about the character, and it's been fun watching Kellerman build the character and add to him over the years. He is, to put it bluntly, the anti-stereotype. Everything you have heard about gay men, as a stereotype, Milo isn't. For instance, he has appallingly bad taste, and doesn't care if anyone knows it. It can be hilarious at times.<br />In this installment, Alex gets sent a photo album full of pictures of dead bodies. They mean nothing to him, but he calls Milo over, and Milo is brought up short by one of the pictures. When he started out in LAPD homicide, twenty and a few years before, he'd been assigned a pill-popping neurotic loner named Pierce Schwinn for a partner, and one of their first cases was that of a young woman. This picture is one of the crime scene photos taken at the time of the discovery of the body, twenty years before. Milo and Pierce investigated the case, but before they could make much progress, Pierce left the LAPD under mysterious circumstances, and Milo got transferred to another division. He forgot about the case, and went on with his life.<br />Now it's been twenty years, and when he goes back to look, there's no record that there ever was a murder, let alone an investigation, in the record books. Finding anyone connected with the case turns out to be a challenge, and meanwhile there seem to be people who wish to prevent the case from being reopened. It gets rather convoluted, but finally makes some sense at the end.<br />I did enjoy this book a good deal, much more than Kellerman's previous several books. I would recommend it.	2003-06-27
1078064:US	52850806	R24167TNKREYBS	0811718247	655412122	Unerring Fire	Books	4	14	23	N	N	An Unerring Accusation	As a survey of the previous reviews of this book on this site will show, the Civil War isn't even sort of over yet. Further, some of the issues involved haven't been resolved, and probably never will to everyone's satisfaction. This slender volume (160 pages of text) explores a particularly violent and controversial incident of the War, the Fort Pillow Massacre, or battle, if you will, which took place in 1864. Confederate cavalry General Nathan Bedford Forrest overran the Yankee-held fort after threatening to kill the occupants of said fort if they didn't surrender. In the aftermath of the fighting, Union soldiers who surrendered were summarily executed by Confederate soldiers in numerous incidents, according to Union survivors. Forrest, and his supporters then and after the war (and today, for that matter) insist angrily that nothing of the sort happened, or that if it did it was the fault of the defenders of the fort, who should have surrendered when they had the chance. There's a good deal of hinting that the defenders of the fort who were killed (mostly black soldiers, and Unionists from Tennessee) had it coming to them anyway. It's sort of like blaming a rape victim for the beating she got because she screamed.<br />Much silliness like this has been repeated over the intervening years, and probably will continue to be. The *facts* of the matter, which author Fuchs repeats clearly, are simple. Soldiers in battle during the Civil War were typically killed and wounded at a rate of about one to five. In this particular battle, the killed among the black soldiers in the fort outnumbered those wounded by a large margin, which is almost unprecedented. Fuchs presents the testimony of a number of witnesses from the Yankee side who said they saw wounded shot, and unarmed prisoners killed also. He also presents evidence from the burial parties who reburied the dead after the area was retaken by the Yankees, and testified that many of the black soldiers were shot in the head, for instance. Further, he presents some accounts written by Confederate participants in which they say that they did kill blacks, and even cites General Forrest essentially bragging that this will \\"teach them.\\" Forrest seems to have thought that he could intimidate blacks or Southern whites by killing large numbers of them this way. The author also discusses the various Confederate statements exonerating Forrest, and sometimes everyone else, from the killing of prisoners and wounded after the fighting, but points out that the statements were usually made long after the incident, and even when they weren't, the persons involved were themselves accused of crimes, and can hardly be trusted when they insisted in their innocence.<br />The strange thing about a book like this is that it's considered biased. Forrest has been biographied numerous times, with no mention (in the books written in the forties or earlier, but still in print) of his association with the KKK in the late 1860's. He was the head of it for a while, though he did distance himself from some of the excesses of the organization, ultimately. No one ever seems to have any trouble with those books, and they are seen as valuable, if a bit dated. An attempt to look at things objectively, however, gets a bad rating because it doesn't exonerate Forrest from complicity in this crime. If he'd been a Nazi, and it had happened during WW2, there wouldn't have been much of an exoneration, I can guarantee you.<br />I will agree with the one reviewer who complained about the spelling mistakes. I think Fuchs used some sort of dictation software or something. Further, the author is a lawyer, and tends to see everything in terms of a legal brief or paper. This is a bit jarring, and leads to some strange discussions at the end of the book. Lastly, the author needlessly uses legal terms that are sometimes unfamiliar to the layman in a couple of instances. <br />All of that being said, this is still a valuable additionto the library of books on the Civil War. To the one reviewer who recounted the investigation into Fort Pillow and Forrest after the war, I would like to pose a question. What do Joseph Stalin, Al Capone, and Jochen Peiper have in common? Answer: none of them was ever convicted of murder. That means they were all innocent, right?	2003-06-22
1082634:US	52850806	R28QPH72DTW2IY	0060516054	433958284	What Went Wrong?: The Clash Between Islam and Modernity in the Middle East	Books	4	1	2	N	N	There are no easy answers	I've just skimmed the other reviews on this book prior to writing this review, and I just put the book down having spent a couple of days with it. I am frankly astonished at the number of different views of the same book people have come up with, accusing the author of being pro-Christian, pro-Muslim, pro-Turkish, and anti all of the above. He also, depending on your point of view, is a hack or a bigot.<br />Actually, near as I could tell, he's none of these things. I have heard him on the radio, and read other of his books, and he clearly admires much about the Middle East and Muslim culture, with some reservations. These reservations seem to play the largest part in the controversy over his biases: the question raised by the book is seen by some to be unfair to the Middle East, others think it oversimplified. It isn't simple, of course, it's just a simple question. And to those who think that things haven't gone wrong, or that the responsibility is misplaced, I can only say that they should have read the book one more time.<br />The book itself, as noted by other reviewers, is a pastiche of several lectures given in the late 90s, and three articles written earlier. One of the criticisms of the book is that it suffers from the problem many essay collections and the like. They tend to be disjointed and have something to offend or upset almost everyone. This book is no exception.<br />Not only that, the author has the temerity to pose a question, discuss the parameters of it, and then leave the answer up to the reader. This of course creates problems. One large one is that this book is seen as an introduction to the Middle East problems. Instead, it's just short, and a summary, but needs to be read carefully, and pondered, not just skimmed.<br />Further, the anecdotal character of the narrative tends to illuminate things, if you pay careful attention to what's written, but it also can distract you, if you don't. One reviewer thinks that Lewis's point is that the Ottoman Empire lacked clocks. His actual point is that the Ottoman Empire was so uninterested in the outside world that when the need occurred, the clocks had to be imported, and fell apart if they broke, because no one knew how to repair them. It's not about the clocks, it's about the larger point.<br />Again, one of the unfortunate parts of the book is that the author doesn't present answers to the questions. All he really does is refine the questions, and provide context for them. This is distressing if you're looking for easy answers, but of course those don't exist, especially in the Middle East. The result is provocative, if troubling: you're left wondering if there is an answer at all, and not certain any one will be able to discern such answers, if they exist at all.<br />This is an insightful, thought-provoking attempt to dig into the problems of the Middle East and at least intelligently pose the question, so that the answer can emerge. It's a good book, and I recommend it.	2003-06-19
1084326:US	52850806	R3GBUJZ50PRLKW	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Silly diversion	This has got to be one of the strangest novels I've ever read. It's as if this guy decided that Clive Cussler's Dirk Pitt novels weren't over the top enough, and Lincoln Child and Douglas Preston weren't stretching the bounds of science and reality enough. As a result, we get a completely preposterous story of an American university professor who's summoned suddenly and peremtorily to Switzerland (in the X-33 Spaceplane, no less!) to solve the mystery of a murder committed by the fabled and legendary Illuminati.<br />This is only the tip of the iceberg here. The book goes on for 568 pages, and most of that takes place in Rome, where the academic plays detective, assisted by a (beautiful, of course) female scientist. They're looking for an anti-matter bomb someone has hidden on the grounds of the Vatican, and also for some cardinals who have been kidnapped on the eve of the conclave, which will elect the new Pope. The whole thing takes place over the course of an evening.<br />There are gun battles, torture, betrayals, bizarre symbology (including ambigrams, which read the same right side up and upside down), and a great deal clues following various Roman art and religious artifacts. All of this is sewn together relatively seamlessly by Brown, but after a while it does get to be a bit much. And if you're like me, you will guess the ending about 50 or 100 pages before the main characters do. Given how the novel goes, it does take a while to finish.<br />However, I will say that I enjoyed it, and recommend it, given that you can accept the over the top nature of the plot.	2003-06-18
1086188:US	52850806	R1M5OLJ42XA9Z9	0700612084	102843012	The Battle for Leningrad, 1941-1944 (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	28	29	N	N	For Specialists Only!	David M. Glantz is a retired army officer who spent most of the latter part of his career studying the Soviet army. He founded and then headed the army's study group that concentrated on the Soviet army (with the fall of Communism the center now devotes itself to the Russian army, and associated armed forces of nearby countries). He's now retired, and has been producing a book every two or three years on the Soviet army during the Second World War. The present volume is in many ways his most ambitious, an attempt to retell the whole of the battle of Leningrad, from the initial German attempts to capture the city through the lifting of the blockade almost three years later.<br />Glantz has several strengths as a historian, and a few weaknesses. His principal strength, and this can't be overstated, is his access to Soviet archives that no one else has gotten into since the war ended. One of his previous books, Zhukov's Greatest Defeat, recounts a large battle on the Eastern front in late 1942 that doesn't appear in many histories of World War II, because the Soviets successfully suppressed knowledge of it. There aren't any whoppers of that magnitude here, but there is a wealth of detail concerning operations, intentions, and forces that hasn't appeared elsewhere.<br />On the other hand, Glantz isn't Hemingway, or even Harrison Salisbury. His prose is rather wooden, and workmanlike, fine for retelling a story of a battle, but not much as literature. It's OK for the first 300 pages, but this book stretches to 470 pages of text, and it gets a little wearing. In other words, if you aren't *very* interested in the subject, I would recommend going elsewhere. On the flip side, if you *are* interested, there's more information here than you'll find anywhere else, and it's clearly presented and intelligently analyzed.<br />As an aside, you'll notice that all of the references above are to Glantz as a historian of the Soviet side of things. There are (of course) references to the Germans here, and to their dilemmas and opportunities, but the emphasis is on the Soviets. In most instances, the book only tells you what the Germans are doing to provide context for the actions of the Soviet army. He does provide a brief history of the city prior to the war, and some account of the privations of the citizens of the city during the war, but this has been done elsewhere, and better. I suppose if he didn't provide anything like this, he'd be criticized for its absence, but frankly it seemed a bit out of place.<br />Given that, this is one of the best books on the Eastern Front to appear in a good long while, and if you're as interested in this field as I am, it's a worthwhile addition to your library.	2003-06-16
1090860:US	52850806	R3HTJZ203NIZX3	0425189864	786303546	Mortal Prey (Lucas Davenport, No. 13)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Rinker (hitwoman) redux	John Sandford's Prey series has a strong following now, and this isn't the book (despite the blurb inside the cover) to start the series with. But if you're already into the series, this is a very good novel with a number of plot twists and interesting characters.<br />The action starts in Mexico, where Clara Rinker (the escaped killer in Certain Prey) is almost killed by an assassin, who escapes only to be killed by an accomplice. You're never certain why she was shot at, or who prompted it, but she seems fairly certain that it was prompted by old acquaintances from her days in St. Louis, MO, and so she returns to try and track them down. When it becomes apparent what's going on, the FBI calls on Lucas Davenport to help find her.<br />The plot goes from there, and I won't tell you anything more. Suffice to say, the action is pretty evenly paced, throughout, and enough happens to keep you interested for the length of the novel. This is a very good book, worth the time you're going to spend on it, unless you've not read the previous one that involves the lady killer. If that's the case, you should read that one first.	2003-06-12
1096252:US	52850806	R3TCWVG5DKFAKU	0312964471	508239738	Sweepers	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Sweepers sweeps along	P.T. Deutermann has been writing Naval books like this for a while now. His genre has wound up being a book-length version of the TV show JAG. That means (for those of you who haven't seen the show) a cross between Tom Clancy and John Grisham. The setting is more Clancy, the plot more Grisham.<br />In this instance, a newly-promoted Admiral in the Navy is briefly a suspect in the murder of his ex-girlfriend. Her death was originally thought an accident, and only anomalies in the crime scene made the police suspicious. Because of the police suspicions, a female Commander in the Navy who's an investigator for JAG is assigned to liase with the police, and watch over the investigation to make sure that there aren't any scandals brewing (the book is set in the mid-90s, with Tailhook, Boorda's suicide, and various other scandals looming large in the rearview mirror). She's assigned a partner, a new civilian investigator from the Naval Investigative Service named \\"Train\\" von Rensel. They quickly ascertain that the villain of the piece is a Navy Seal that the Admiral abandoned one night in Viet Nam. The guy has been listed as MIA ever since, and apparently working for the CIA as a \\"sweeper\\", an assassin who kills other assassins who get out of line.<br />I had some problems with the book. The plot seems to plod along for the first half of the book, or so. It's 400+ pages and feels as if a hundred could have been deleted without much pain. The two main characters, Train and the girl, are a bit dull and uninspired in their attempts to unravel the circumstances of the original incident in Viet Nam, and the plot there contains a twist that was more than a bit of a coincidence and not particularly believable to me. Also I too had problems with the portrayal of the main bad guy, the Seal. While I have no difficulty imagining one of these guys turning into a criminal, I do get impatient with them being portrayed as undefeatable. In this instance, he's that throughout the book until the very end, when someone finally manages to momentarily surprise him, once. He does all of the super secret Ninja stuff, walk through walls, pick locks without it being apparent he did so, kill people and make it look like an accident, etc. It's a bit much.<br />Anyway, I still enjoyed the book at some level, and if you're into this sort of thing, I would recommend it.	2003-06-08
1098738:US	52850806	RVHVZLBO958BC	0380731851	733601761	Mystic River	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lehane Breaks out	Dennis Lehane has been writing detective novels of the Private eye variety for about 8 or 9 years now. His first five books were part of a series, with a pair of detective solving crimes. There were shootouts, clues, and wonderful dialog, and you wondered how long he was going to keep with the detective genre. The prose was so polished, the characters so carefully drawn, the plots so carefully contrived. Well now it's happened. Dennis Lehane has moved on to the big time, writing a different sort of novel. It's a crime drama, certainly, with murder and mayhem, but it's not a detective novel like his first five books. Instead, it's more of a character study, and much fuller of drama and richer in texture.<br />Sean Devine, Jimmy Marcus, and Dave Boyle are friends as little kids. When they are 11 or so, Boyle gets molested, returning to find that his world has changed and he can't change it back. Marcus and Devine drift apart, one going into crime while the other moves into law enforcement. Twenty-five years later, the killing of the daughter of one of them brings all three together. How this plays out, and how the molesting that occurred when they were all kids affects what happens later, is the subject of the book.<br />I generally enjoyed this book, and frankly I think Lehane's going to be happier writing this type of novel. It's a shame, though, in that his earlier detective novel stuff was very fun. Given that, I would recommend Mystic River.	2003-06-05
1104153:US	52850806	R1J38A7Y1HK2Y7	0375713336	295932611	The Master of Rain	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Shanghai Confidential	A dead prostitute lies in her bed, stabbed repeatedly and handcuffed to the bedposts. A morally compromised police investigator must look into her death, paying special attention to the potential political implications of the murder. Given that the setting is 1926 Shanghai, the politics are somewhat tangled: no one's really running China at the moment, warlords run rampant, and in the International Community in Shanghai (where the novel takes place) the business leaders, all of them European, fear a Bolshevik rising more than anything. The city's full of Russian exiles fleeing the Communists, Chinese gangsters, and Westerners with pasts they wish to leave behind.<br />This is one of the most complex, involved, atmospheric novels I've read in a good while. Think James Ellroy's L. A. Confidential, but with a Chinese setting and a more multi-culturnal cast. There is a great deal here about moral compromises, and what they do to those who make them. There's also a wonderful mystery, complete with various characters scheming to get ahead or get by or survive, using each other in the pursuit of that goal.<br />I frankly was amazed by this book, spent most of a Saturday afternoon trying to finish it, and thoroughly enjoyed it. I would highly recommend it.	2003-06-01
1106431:US	52850806	R2XEJGHLX8RT7	0060174951	518106967	Sherman: A Soldier's Life	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Shorter Bio of Sherman unremarkable	William T. Sherman seems to have a biography written of him every three years or so. There are currently four bios available, not to mention his own memoirs and more venerable books such as the volumes by Liddell Hart and Lloyd Lewis. He's an endlessly fascinating character, multi-faceted, complex, and as amazingly verbose. He had an opinion on most everything, and to use my wife's phrase, \\"never had an unuttered thought.\\" Because of this he's great biography material, and historians have been interested in him a great deal as a result.<br />Those recent bios vary greatly in their treatment of their subject. John Marszalek's Sherman: A Soldier's Passion For Order is the culmination of that man's life, seemingly. Marszalek lived with Sherman for a great while, to the extent of naming a dog Cumpy (Sherman's childhood nickname), and it showed in that the book is still the longest and most exhaustive biography. He sees Sherman as a twisted soul, tormented by his inability to control the world around him, but able to deal with things once he gets in command of an army and is able to influence events to an extent. Michael Fellman's Citizen Sherman is more harsh and unforgiving. Fellman is a Canadian historian who looks at the American Civil War through relentlessly modern lenses, and sees racism, misogyny, elitism, and various other ills pretty much everywhere in 19th century America. He doesn't think much of Sherman. Stanley Hirshson's The White Tecumseh, on the other hand, is apparently a very forgiving portrait of what the author considers a great soldier (this is the one Sherman bio I haven't read). The author of the present book, Lee Kennett, falls somewhere between Marszalek and Hirshson. He handles Sherman pretty mildly, though he does make note of his foibles and prejudices (as expressed in things he wrote) in passing.<br />Most biographers of Sherman note that he wanted to be judged as a soldier, and then dutifully tell you that they will abide by his wishes. Kennett follows suit, but only sort of succeeds. Instead his book is largely a study of Sherman's personality, with a whole chapter devoted to this subject on the eve of the Civil War. The book is remarkably spare in terms of narratives of the actual battles themselves: instead there's a great deal of space devoted to the politics of the army 1861-1865. So the Meridian raid gets about a paragraph, and the battles around Atlanta are disposed of in a page or so.<br />The author also leaves things out, things that make it into some Sherman biographies. Perhaps the best-known anecdote is Joe Johnston killing himself by standing bareheaded at Sherman's funeral, and catching pneumonia. It's not here, and there are a number of other things that didn't make the book either. I know this is a short biography, but somehow I expected some of these things to make the book.<br />Several previous reviewers put this forward as an introductory biography of Sherman. One thing the book definitely is is neutral on the subject. Until now, the one neutral book was Marszalek, the longest, so I suppose this one, at half the length, is better. I don't consider a 352 page book an introduction to anything, however, and I can't say I agree here. Introductory books are 200 pages or so.<br />That being said, this isn't a bad book, and I can't come up with any reason to review it negatively. It's just not a particularly good one either.	2003-05-30
1108302:US	52850806	R1IEPHIF9PWIPA	0385721080	96312554	Flashman and the Tiger	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Three Flashman Shorts	George MacDonald Fraser has been writing Flashman stuff for about 25 years now. He's also an accomplished writer in other fields: his memoir of his own service in WW2, \\"Quartered Safe Out Here\\" is one of the best personal accounts to come out of that war, and he wrote the screenplay for \\"The Three Musketeers.\\" In short, he's an accomplished guy.<br />Flashman and the Tiger is only the second time, by my count, that the author has written something much out of order (the other time being Flashman and the Redskins, which contains a section from 1876). In this volume, Flashman recounts three adventures from his later life, one involving an attempt to assasinate the Emporer of Austria-Hungary, a second involving Flashy in a card-cheating scandal with the Prince of Wales entangled in it, and the third, the title piece, involving our hero deciding to kill a mortal enemy, and running into Sherlock Holmes in the process.<br />The first of the stories is by far the longest, longer than 200 pages, and really almost a novel itself. It's a good story, even if it is a bit reminiscent of an earlier novel he wrote, and the characters are fun. The second story is a bit more mundane, though I'll confess the ending had me laughing for several minutes. The thirds story, which takes place partly in Africa during the Zulu War, is amusing, though I agree that this does somewhat preclude a full Zulu War novel. The Sherlock part is hilarious, and quite the best part of the book, to be honest. I'm a Sherlock buff of a kind (read all of the stories when I was in high school, twice) and I enjoyed it immensely.<br />All in all, I wouldn't recommend this as an introductory book for the series, though you could have someone read one of the shorter stories and see if that's the sort of thing that interests them. I do know that some Americans find it hard to read a book written in the vernacular like this, and a short story would be a good way to figure things out. The first story's too long for this, but one of the other two might do.<br />Given that, it's a worthwhile addition to the series, and fun.	2003-05-28
1115671:US	52850806	R3VXAU2K1NFZ5G	0385721080	96312554	Flashman and the Tiger	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Flashman times three	George MacDonald Fraser has been writing a wonderful series of novels for about three decades now. Fraser had another career, as a screenwriter, first, and garnered an Oscar for the screenplay of The Three Musketeers. Since, he's garnered a small but obsessed band of followers here in the states. The following has gotten large enough that the books are all in print now (for many years they weren't, and you had to hunt for them, like Patrick O'Brian) and the release of a new Flashman book draws considerable interest among men here and (I would presume) around the world. Notice I say men. Flashman is a misogynist of the first order, rapes, betrays, robs, defrauds, and generally misuses most of the women who cross his path. Most women don't consider this too fun.<br />In this volume, rather than one story with a (sort of) interconnecting theme, we have three. In the first, which runs to a little more than 200 pages and is almost a novel, Flashman encounters the son of a character from a previous book, and various other interesting characters, and thwarts the attempted assassination of Franz-Joseph, the Emporer of Austria. In the second, shorter story (about 50 pages) Flashman is mostly a spectator in a card-cheating scandal involving the Prince of Wales, whom Flashman despises. The third story, the same length as the second, has Flashman trying to kill an old nemesis, and running afoul of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson, who are after the same individual. As with everyone else, Holmes and Watson are presented in a slightly different light in Flashman's account.<br />You have to get used to Fraser, and Flashman. Fraser adopts Flashman's voice to narrate the story, and it's a bit hard to take unless you're a devoted Anglophile and history buff. Every simile he utters is a reference to a historical figure or adventure Flashman was part of, usually. I have one friend who thought the premise of the series interesting, but couldn't take Flashy's cowardice and rapacity. He wound up passing his books onto me.<br />Given that, I enjoyed this book. I would agree that this isn't perhaps the best of introductions to the series, but on the other hand, the stories are shorter, so you could perhaps try someone out on the series with one of the shorter ones, assuring them that there's more to the novels than these stories.	2003-05-22
1118335:US	52850806	R3EBFFTJNTQ4OD	042518546X	702254891	Open Season (A Joe Pickett Novel)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Impressive debut	I gather this book has garnered some awards since its publication, and I think for the most part they are deserved. C.J. Box has written a relatively interesting mystery. The plot isn't as mysterious as you would like, but the characters are well-drawn and the action moves right along. The novel does have a political edge to it, but that's handled relatively deftly, and without most of the partisan preaching you tend to get on this sort of issue.<br />Joe Pickett is an interesting character. He's a Game Warden in Wyoming, a bright ambitious young man with a wife and two children who's trying to do the right thing, and idealistically honest, if a bit naive. When a poacher stumbles into his backyard wounded, and dies on his property, Joe thinks that he must have come to him for a reason. He goes looking for the man's partners. That leads to a shootout, and more questions. When Joe continues to look into the case even though everyone else thinks it's closed, things get ugly, and things &quot;get western&quot; as he puts it himself.<br />I enjoyed this book a great deal, and would recommend it. I'll be looking for the other entries in the series.	2003-05-19
1119184:US	52850806	R13WC8S4ORO8JT	0679447326	389174636	Chesty: The Story of Lieutenant General Lewis B. Puller, USMC	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Brilliant Biography of a deceptively complex man	There's a marvelous scene in one of the first Viet Nam war movies, \\"The Boys in Company C.\\" The movie begins with the obligatory first-day-at-boot-camp sequence, which ends with lights out. The drill instructor makes the recruits lie in bed at attention and shout \\"Goodnight Chesty Puller, wherever you are!\\" and then turns the lights out and leaves. After a moment, one of the recruits says into the darkness \\"Who the hell is Chesty Puller, anyway?\\" For most who are or were in the Marines, he needs no introduction, but for the public at large, this book will fill the gap for those who are interested.<br />Lewis Burwell Puller joined the Marines at the end of WW1, and spent most of the 20s as an enlisted man seconded to the Haitian Gendarmerie, acting as an officer in that organization. He became an officer in the Marine Corps in the mid-20s, and spent the late 20s and early 30s in Nicaragua. By the mid-30s, his reputation as one of the premier small unit tactics experts in the Marine Corps resulted in his teaching that course at the Marines Basic school for three years. About a third of the junior officers in the Corps during the period took the course from him. When WW2 started, he served first on Guadalcanal, then New Britain, and finally Peleliu. He later saw extensive action in Korea, retiring in 1955 and dying in 1971. He had an extensive combat record and a series of awards that are hard to match: he remains the only Marine ever awarded five Navy Crosses.<br />It's difficult to understand or explain what he personifies to Marines (and I should point out that I'm not a Marine myself). Puller was an iconoclast from the moment he became a Marine, and also something of a subversive. At the same time he was very insistent on loyalty to the Corps and the country, and worked very hard to make sure that these things were always held dear by his troops. One of the revelations of the book, to me, was that he turns out to have been an excellent training officer (though he disdained the duty) and a relatively decent staff officer (though he despised this duty, and everyone else who did it). Hoffman does a rather good job of recounting Puller's career, and is surprisingly frank and critical (not neccessarily negative) when examining the choices Puller made and the opinions he expressed.<br />Chesty Puller is a hard subject to write about. Given his legendary status (note I didn't use the word almost: the man had more stories made up about him than Elvis) the author admits to more than a bit of trepidation in writing the book, and merely notes that the only book-length treatment of Puller's life is Marine!, the authorized biography which is really more of a memoir, and not terribly reliable. Hoffman's book, by comparison, is a balanced, well-researched, incisive biography of a man who turns out to have been much more complex than he let on, and a more rounded soldier (or Marine) than his legend implies. This is an excellent book; I would recommend it highly.	2003-05-19
1121790:US	52850806	R3GT1AS67WWPKF	0451207521	583024749	Jackdaws	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Generally good espionage novel leaves an odd feeling	Ken Follett has been doing this sort of thing for years. His best work, other than perhaps the atypical historical novel The Pillars of the Earth, has been set in World War II, with Nazi and Allied spies chasing one another across the battlefields and occupied countries of the war. This latest entry starts with a shootout between French partisans, led by a British agent, and Germans at a communications center in occupied Normandy. The action takes place on the eve of D-Day, and the attack fails. The leader, however, is a determined woman named Felicity (Flick) Clairet, and she's one stubborn lady. She decides to try again, more subtly.<br />The action of the book follows Flick through her return to England, recruiting a very different team of irregular operatives to perform the mission, and their subesequent adventures in France. It alternates between this and the activities of a Nazi intelligence officer, a former policeman named Dieter Franck. Dieter is determined to stop the invasion and catch Flick, who he thinks can lead him to various resistance leaders in France.<br />The problem with the book, such as it is, is a strange one. The author seems unclear as to whether the Nazis are evil or not, as a group. Franck definitely isn't motivated by any animus towards Jews or anything, he merely wishes to protect Germany from invaders, and is willing to do things like torture people in order to achieve his goal. He has a beautiful French Jew for a girlfriend, and throws himself on her to shield her body when there's shooting, so you know he's attached to her. This creates a strange atmosphere for the novel: there's a sort of moral equivalence that's a bit distasteful. My wife tried the audio of this some time ago, and tells me that she had trouble caring about any of the characters, and stopped listening to the story before she finished it.<br />With that one (big) misgiving aside, this is a good book, and very well written. It's definitely worth the effort.	2003-05-16
1126719:US	52850806	RWCL1OFYL806Y	0312868472	644350418	The Boys of '98: Theodore Roosevelt and the Rough Riders	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Dissappointing	Theodore Roosevelt is one of the most enigmatic presidents in our nation's history. He was the consumate man of action, but an intellectual who wrote histories of his nation's past. He was an accomplished big game hunter who was also one of the nation's first conservationists, and founded the national park system. He was probably the most belligerent president we ever had, almost aching to fight in wars---and won the Nobel Peace Prize for negotiating the end to the Russo-Japanese War. And of course, he was the New York dandy who became a cowboy, and led the storied and legendary Rough Riders into combat in Cuba during the brief Spanish American War, in 1898. This last is the subject of the present book, an introductory account of the campaign that focuses almost exclusively on the 1st Volunteer Cavalry regiment and its remarkable commander.<br />The book spends a good deal of time talking about the various personalities involved, and only briefly deals with the battles the American army, or the Rough Riders for that matter, were involved in while in Cuba. Those personalities, chiefly Roosevelt, but also the various other people involved in the fighting, are the heart of this book and its greatest strength. The narrative of the battles themselves is somewhat less clear, and not so engrossing.<br />I read Legends and Lies a couple of years ago, so I was looking forward to this book, and frankly I was surprised to see how dissappointing The Boys of '98 was. The story is reasonably well-told, but there are repititions of minutae on a number of occasions. I am at a loss to answer how this could occur: it almost looks as if the book was rushed into publication, but since I read the paperback (which presumably appeared the standard year after the hardcover) they should have had ample time to rewrite it, and clean up the prose. The whole point to minutae like this is that it's interesting *once*; repeated multiple times it gets old fast. Given that, I'm sorry to report thatthe main thing I found satisfying about this book was how short it was. Hopefully, Mr. Walker can do better next time.	2003-05-12
1129117:US	52850806	R32I94T7U5ZAJD	0802132863	490440526	Israel's Secret Wars: A History of Israel's Intelligence Services	Books	4	48	53	N	N	History of Israeli Intelligence is somewhat dated	Israel was spying on its Arab neighbors before it even formally existed, and has been doing it ever since. Back when the Haganah was battling the irregular Arab insurgents in the period of the British Mandate, warning of when those insurgents were going to attack, and where, was almost required. Fortunately, various Israelis who had lived among the Arabs and spoke their language were able to infiltrate those Arab groups, or suborn members of them, and gain the needed information.<br />When the War of Independance was won, the Israeli intelligence network settled into three different services: the Mossad, for external intelligence, the Shin Bet, for internal security, and the Aman, for military intelligence. This book covers all three in about equal measure, with digressions for other services like the small research unit that employed Jonathan Pollard, for instance. Much of the story remains classified, and is therefore either murky or just incomplete, or even unknown and not repeated here at all.<br />There's a scene in the movie Gettysburg where a Confederate spy named Harrison (played by the actor Cooper Huckabee) complains to his employer, Confederate General James Longstreet (Tom Berenger). Harrison had been an actor before the war, and he doesn't like spying because if you do it well, no one knows. It's only when you screw up that you get noticed. The same thing is true in the case of this book: especially in the last chapters, the story is a chronicle of the times the organization was in the news, and a spy organization like the Mossad or Shin Bet does its best to stay out of the headlines. When they fail, it's usually because of something they did wrong, or something they tried that failed. It would have been interesting to read about some of their successes too.<br />There is one further thing that I should register in the way of negativity. This isn't exactly a criticism, but it definitely detracts from the value of the book. Since the book was published in 1991, it's very dated, and could stand an update, if either or both of the authors would be able. I'm sure that some of the uncertainties of the late 80's in the book have been resolved, and it would be interesting to have the book continued into the 90s and beyond. Until that book comes out, this one is worthwhile, notwithstanding that it's more than a decade old.	2003-05-10
1134476:US	52850806	R1G64C64YSMF9R	0684849453	28979746	The Longest Night: A Military History of the Civil War	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Perhaps the best battlefield History of the Civil War	I'd never heard of David J. Eicher when I picked up this book. He has written about the Civil War before, notably doing a book-length bibliography (The Civil War in Books) and a book on Civil War battlefields, but his only narrative work of book length prior to the present work is a picture book on Robert E. Lee. Apparently, he's rather young and this is a first effort; who knows what he'll come up with next.<br />The Longest Night is one of the best books I've ever read on the Civil War, and I have read a considerable amount of stuff. Eicher spends little time on the politics of the war, instead devoting most of his attention to the seemingly endless series of battles and campaigns that were once called the \\"American Iliad.\\" He exhibits an awe-inspiring command of sources and narrative, and must have an encyclopedic knowledge of Civil War combat. In addition to every major battle, more minor fights and even skirmishes are mentioned at least if not covered thoroughly. The maps seem to represent the battles they cover well, though occasionally they fall short of complete. I suppose that's inevitable given the size of the book.<br />I suppose I should comment on the bias allegations and the one fellow complaining about General Blunt being on the train. The bias involved here isn't pro-Northern, it's insufficiently pro-Southern. On two of the more controversial issues of Civil War history, the Dahlgren affair and the Fort Pillow Massacre, the author essentially stays out of the controversy, presenting the evidence briefly, and then leaving it up to the reader to decide. With the Lincoln assassination, he acknowledges the work done by William A. Tidwell, connecting the Davis administration with the plot, then baldly asserts that there's no proof the Confederates were directly involved in the assassination. In all three of these instances, a true pro-Northern author would be much more positive in his assertions; Eicher's just telling you what happened. And the referenceto Blunt's wagon train even specifies how many teams of horses and mules were captured. No mention of locomotives is made.<br />I did have a few quibbles with the book, largely with the way the information is presented, though none of this is enough to lower my rating from 5 stars. For one thing, throughout the book there are passages describing various topical aspects of the Civil War: medical procedures and casualties, what the troops were armed with, how prisoners were dealt with, etc. For my money Eicher would have done better to put these in a separate chapter at the beginning of the book, or in an appendix. The chapters carry titles, but they only describe one event that occurs in each, and each is stuffed full of events. I would have liked to see the old style chapter sub-headings, or perhaps page headers describing what's going on on that page, along with the date of the events. When he listed ships, he seemed to be unaware he didn't need to put USS or CSS before every ship's individual name.<br />Given all of that, there's a mountain of information here, and it's well-presented. The author tells you of the passing of every general in either army, and the cause of death. He also makes an effort to correct previous works which credit various soldiers with promotion. Several reviewers seem to think he was bragging in this regard; it looked to me as if he was making sure everyone was on the same page. He singled out no one for special criticism.<br />One last point. In the forward, Eicher gives an overview of previous books on the Civil War, justifying his work. Let me quote his description of Catton's Centennial History of the Civil War: \\"...relatively light on military history and analysis, rich in the political relations between officers, and superb in it's biographical glimpses of the characters.\\" I'm a fan of Catton, was raised on him, and that seems a fair assessment to me. Eicher's main critique of the Centennial History is that it was written forty years ago, and much scholarship has been done since on the Civil War, so that it's rather dated. Not exactly negative, is it? On Foote, he criticises him for pro-Southern bias, comparing the way the author dealt with Lincoln and Davis, and Grant and Foote, and quotes that author from several points in his work, pointing out passages that prove his point (in his mind anyway). This goes back to the issue of bias, and kind of proves what I was saying earlier. Eicher is determined not to be biased, and works at it.<br />Taking all of that in mind, this is a wonderful book to spend a weekend or an evening with, if you're a Civil War buff. It's not for the faint of heart: the text runs to 850 pages, and covers every military event concievable for the four years plus of the war. Every twenty pages or so he breaks down the organization of the opposing armies again, and after each battle he runs through the casualties, noting which generals got killed or wounded, if any. There is so much information here it's staggering, and the writing, while not quite Shelby Foote, is certainly good. I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the Civil War.	2003-05-05
1142058:US	52850806	RQHWIZNRLOFUP	055357759X	88261938	A Test of Wills (Inspector Ian Rutledge Mysteries)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Interesting idea for a mystery	Inspector Ian Rutledge has returned from four years service in the trenches of World War I, and Scotland Yard has assigned him his first case after his return. He has an enemy in the Yard who assigns him a particularly tough case, envisioning him messing it up and arresting the obvious prime suspect, another war hero who was awarded the Victoria Cross. Rutledge balks at making a hasty arrest, however, and spends a week in the English countryside investigating thoroughly.<br />Rutledge is an interesting character. He's haunted by the war, and by things he did in the middle of it. He hears a voice in his head, often, a particular individual who served with him in the war, but has opinions on everything that passes within Rutledge's view. There are other characters in the book, all well-drawn and interesting, and there's much about the war and its effect on people, and their psyches.<br />The temptation is to compare this novel with Christie, Sayers, or perhaps Stout. Frankly, this is a bit thin. All of these writers wrote about their own era, more or less, and felt less need to recreate a bygone era. They also wrote in an era where elaborate plots and motives were almost required in mystery fiction, while characters were almost unimportant. Christie was especially notorious in this regard. The present author, by comparison, has produced a full, well-written novel with a puzzle in it. The clues that present themselves towards the solution of the story aren't as obvious signposts as Christie's, or Sayers' famous red herrings, but they are there, and if you read carefully enough I suppose you could solve the mystery (I never try).<br />The plot does drag in the middle a bit. Rutledge doesn't do anything for two hundred pages except question people repeatedly, asking the same questions and getting fuller answers as he persists in his investigation. When the action does finally heat up, it's only a bit, and the climax comes rather suddenly. <br />Given that, and the othercomplaints about the book enumerated above, I did enjoy this book, and will look for the others in the series.	2003-04-29
1143118:US	52850806	R2CD8ILOY1C6GU	0743412079	814422903	Chalk Whispers: A Fey Croaker LAPD Crime Novel (Fey Croaker Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fey Croaker gets promoted	Paul Bishop has been writing cop novels for about a decade now. He started with a book that was a better premise than a novel, about a pair of patrolmen trying to win a bet by driving their patrol car from LA to Las Vegas and back in one shift without anyone noticing. It wasn't quite as good as it sounds. He's written several books since, trying different characters. One was a detective who was also a soccer player or something. The one he seems to have finally decided is a hit is Fey Croaker, who gets called Frog Lady (frogs croak) and who's been assigned to LAPD's West Side Division for three books. In this fourth entry, the author appparently decided to up the ante and promote her, and her \\"team\\", to Robbery Homicide Division downtown.<br />This was the first of several annoyances in this book. I don't know this, but I suspect that LAPD is like any other large organization: they don't transfer teams like this around their department's organizational structure. Now there are mitigating circumstances: Bishop mentions an outgoing chief of police, and a new one trying to shake things up. Still it was hard for me to buy that they would do this.<br />Next, no sooner do Fey and her cohorts get downtown than they are assigned a real hot potato: the torture-murder of a prominent black woman who's an attorney and child molestation crusader, and also the sister of a police commissioner, and the daughter of a judge. Soon, the case develops into a hunt for missing children who have entered an \\"underground railroad\\" where they are spirited away from abusive parents who have the law on their side. Just in case things weren't complex enough, the case also takes a historical turn, with a bloody armored car robbery and a shootout involving the police and the Black Panthers from almost thirty years ago proving to be connected with the case.<br />There are interesting, if a bit eccentric, characters throughout the book. The cops are fun, and well-defined. The dialog is well-written.The plot is a bit like something Michael Connelly or Jeffrey Deaver would concoct. Everything's logical and believable, but at the end you wonder if anything this complex ever occurs, and if it does, do the detectives on the case ever solve them?<br />Given that, I did enjoy the book, and would recommend it.	2003-04-28
1144872:US	52850806	R4VQC798A0L83	0425185214	234076055	Shark River (A Doc Ford Novel)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Skeletons in Doc Ford's Closet	Randy Wayne White has been writing for years, establishing himself as the heir apparent to the Travis McGee chair of detective fiction: the laid back guy who lives on the water in Florida and somehow becomes involved in assorted mayhem and hijinks, mostly against his will. While McGee was hired to look into things, Ford (the Doc comes from a Phd. in marine biology) tends to stumble into things and wind up trying to save his own bacon, or someone else's.<br />Until now, we've never really known that much about Ford's past. He worked for some super-secret government organization, but at various points in the series he's said various things to various people, and it hasn't always jibed completely with itself. He was being evasive, that much is obvious now, after this book, in which we learn a great deal about him and the organization, and incidentally about his best buddy, Tomlinson.<br />The plot only tangentally involves these things, however. Ford's in the Bahamas, and intervenes to thwart a kidnapping. The criminals are after a powerful man's daughter, and when they don't get her, they decide to see if they can get revenge. Meanwhile Ford gets entangled with a Bahamian woman who's the daughter of Ford's ne'erdowell uncle, Tucker Gatrell, and that gets complicated, because Tucker left behind a typically complicated legacy, and she's obsessed with finding it, if only Ford will help her.<br />The book sags in the middle somewhat, and the plot sort of wanders off for a while. It's all entertaining, but it's not very tightly constructed, and frankly it got a bit boring for me. The inside information as to what Ford was doing for the super-secret government organization, however, is more a part of the series than a part of the book, and in that sense it was interesting.<br />Overall, I enjoyed the book, and would recommend it, especially to fans of Travis McGee. Perhaps, though, you should read some of the other books in the series first, if you're just starting out.	2003-04-26
1151159:US	52850806	R23E25RQP5E3TU	0786890169	84738703	Black Water: A Merci Rayborn Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Merci Rayborn returns	I like T. Jefferson Parker. I have liked him ever since Laguna Heat, which I thought reminiscent of Ross MacDonald, and deeper in the way its plot developed. Parker has been developing as an author ever since, with varying success. He's finally found a series he seems to enjoy writing, and has now done three books featuring Merci Rayborn, an Orange County Sheriff's Deputy who is a homicide detective, and also a single mother. She starts out very ambitious (in her head she's thinking about someday being Sheriff herself) and meticulous in the performance of her job, and in this installment, the ambition has been tempered but the attention to detail in the job hasn't.<br />The case she is working on this time involves an off duty patrolman and his wife, who have been shot at home. The house they're living in is suspiciously expensive (especially given that she doesn't really work much) and they'd been fighting earlier in the day. Though shot in the head, he has miraculously survived, but can't remember much about the shooting. The suspicion among some of the investigators is that he must have shot her himself, and then shot himself, and is now trying to get out of it. We go from there.<br />Like I said, I enjoy T. Jefferson Parker's books. This one isn't his strongest effort. The plot seems a bit loose and unsuspenseful at times, and the ending was fairly predictable. That being said, I did enjoy the book, and look forward to seeing Merci again.	2003-04-21
1152389:US	52850806	R3L89WC0YI93H2	0425189430	304004391	Zodiac Unmasked: The Identity of America's Most Elusive Serial Killer Revealed	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Zodiac Redux	Robert Graysmith was a political reporter in the late '60s when the Zodiac killer terrorized the San Francisco Bay area. For those who aren't aware, Zodiac killed 5 people that they know of (and perhaps more) and wrote threatening letters to the police, local newspapers, and prominent citizens. He threatened to shoot out the tires of a schoolbus, and then shoot the children as they ran out the door, hinted about a \\"death machine\\" he had in his basement, and even sent \\"recipes\\" for how to concoct bombs to substantiate his claim that he could kill a lot of people. After a period 1969-71, he quit acknowledging who he had killed, and only occasionally taunted the police with new letters. He was never caught.<br />Zodiac has been the subject of many films and books. The bad guy in the movie Dirty Harry (\\"Scorpio\\") was loosely based on him. He engendered such curiosity not just because he killed some people and threatened to kill more. It was also the letters that he wrote, filled with strange codes and bizarre demands. The writing itself was bizarre, a weird printing with strange symbols in it and bizarre mispellings of words. He demanded that everyone wear Zodiac buttons, and when no one complied, threatened to torture his slaves (those people he had killed) in the afterlife. He was altogether a strange guy.<br />Graysmith, a political cartoonist in San Francisco, became obsessed with the Zodiac killings. He spent years gathering evidence, and checking suspects, and became as much of an expert as some of the police detectives on the case. In the early '80s he wrote a book called Zodiac, chronicling the story of the killings and the information that the police had gathered. There was a principle suspect, who the author identified by a pseudonym for various reasons. This suspect fit all of the criteria for the killer, and didn't have a convincing alibi for any of the killings. However, the police couldn't elicit a confession, and didn't have any hard physical evidence. Also, by the time they became convinced, the suspect was old, legally blind, and past his killing days, so they weren't that enthusiastic about pursuing him.<br />The present book follows this man (his name was Arthur Leigh Allen) throughout his life, and contends that he was the Zodiac killer. There is a lengthy discussion of his motivation and mindset, including the various movies, radio shows and books that influenced him to think the way he did. <br />The problem is in the way the book is structured. Since Graysmith already wrote another book on Zodiac, he feels apparently that he shouldn't go over new ground, and so he assumes you remember all the details of the killings that he chronicled in his previous book. I would recommend reading Zodiac before this book, even if you already read it. I read it about a decade ago, and I have a good memory, but I was lost at times in this book, and found it rather tedious going over details which were only partially enumerated, trying to figure out what his point was.<br />That being said, there is a lot of information here. It's difficult to imagine someone else turning out to be the Zodiac killer, though I suppose it's possible. Hey, I noticed someone's solved the Black Dahlia thing again! Someone will no doubt re-solve the Zodiac killing someday, but in the meanwhile, this book and Zodiac itself are the best books on the subject.	2003-04-20
1160906:US	52850806	R1LFT2Y7NTJD2F	0304359858	782019358	The Second World War in the West	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Outline history of World War II in the West	Cassell has been publishing these volumes for a year or so now in the United States, to reasonably good reviews. I have read several of them now (I think this is the third, and I have a fourth around here somewhere) and generally my take on them is as with other books: how good they are depends on the author. Gunther Rothenberg, the author of the volume on Napoleon, is an expert on the subject, and that shows in his book. H.P. Wilmott is an expert on carrier warfare and the Pacific War, and he wrote the volume on that, and made some intelligent points. Charles Messenger, the author of the present volume, is considered an expert on World War II in Europe, and especially in mobile warfare, so he gets the assignment here. While he does a very good job overall, he does fall short a bit in places.<br />One problem is scope. Messenger has a lot of ground to cover, but then so did Wilmott in his companion volume. Messenger seems lost sometimes in trying to sort out what he should talk about and what he's going to ignore. He leaves the naval aspect of the war basically aside, and does the same thing with most of the events of the air war. Instead he concentrates on the mobile warfare on the ground, which is after all his area of expertise.<br />Unfortunately, Messenger occasionally lets his British heritage influence influence what he writes about the war. So, for instance, the German troops on Sicily fight against the British and Canadians, while the Americans draw Italian opponents, who are easier to defeat. In reality, one of the American invasion beaches was almost overrun by a German panzer division, which was only stopped by naval gunfire.<br />The Soviet part in the war is dealt with in some detail, given the length of the overall book. Issues such as tank design and unit organization are covered briefly, but concisely. The strategies used by the various sides in prosecuting the war are gone over also, enough to understand the issues involved. Given the proportionalsizes of the various armies, though, you could make the argument that the Eastern Front doesn't get its share of the coverage, and that the Western (and especially British) Front gets more than its fair share. Much is made, for instance, of the War in the North African desert. Though the author does note the small size of the forces involved compared with the campaigns in the east, he spends as much time on them anyway.<br />My review, therefore, is a bit mixed. The author certainly isn't John Keegan when it comes to crafting prose. While he's not terrible, he also doesn't come up with unconventional interpretations or reinterpretations of the war and its impact, as some of the other authors in this series do. The maps are tremendous, as always, though at least one is incomplete (the little numbered boxes are blank, unintentionally. It's fun to see if you can fill in the numbers correctly.) and sometimes the text seems only loosely connected to the maps involved.<br />On that note, I think I would only recommend the book to those whose interest in the Second World War is just starting. Perhaps a teenager would be interested. And of course, if the person involved is British, the emphasis would probably not be such an issue.	2003-04-12
1163226:US	52850806	R2FN4UL2E2VI03	0446527912	665759078	Animosity	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Texas, Hitchcock-style	David Lindsey has a very good reputation, as far as I'm concerned, as a mystery writer. His books are moody, slowly paced, wonderfully written, and very quirky and atmospheric. When he started he concentrated on a detective in Houston (I think) named Stuart Haydon, but recently many of his books have been about other characters, and some (notably Mercy) have been true masterpieces of the mystery genre, and very good as literate novels, to boot.<br />Which brings us to the present book, Animosity. This isn't really a mystery novel at all, at least in so far as there's a mystery involved. For the first half of the book, the plot follows Ross Marteau, a commercial sculptor who has had a particularly nasty breakup with his girlfriend in Paris, and moves back to San Rafael, Texas, where he is from. There he is approached by two sisters in a roundabout way. The younger of the two, hauntingly beautiful but deformed by a hunchback, wants him to make a nude sculpture of her. The other of the sisters he begins an affair with. Suddenly things derail, and with the change in the story, the whole thing turns into a rollercoaster ride.<br />I won't tell you anything further except to tell you that the plot is very Hitchcockian, or perhaps Cohen Brothers, in flavor. Lindsey is so good at forming pictures in your head that it almost plays as a movie.<br />I had two complaints about the book. One, I didn't like the ending. I can't tell you what the ending is, or why I didn't like it, but I didn't. The other is that the story takes a bit long to get going. I was beginning to wonder if anything ever would happen when it did.<br />Given that, this is a good book, and worth the money.	2003-04-10
1168417:US	52850806	R1UNXOX2ZFPLLS	0394528360	741344123	Master of the Senate: The Years of Lyndon Johnson III	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Master of the Biography	Robert A. Caro is a national treasure. His three volumes (to date) on Lyndon Johnson are amazing: incredibly detailed, rich with beautiful prose, strewn with amazingly good sketches of other players on the scene at the time. The current volume, Master of the Senate, covers the dozen years that Lyndon Johnson was in the Senate, and the author makes sure you understand the situation when the subject of the book arrives in the Senate. To do this, he spends a hundred pages giving you a history of the Senate itself, from Daniel Webster and Henry Clay right up through the end of World War II.<br />This leads him to illuminate what had been going on in the Senate for the previous decades. Always intended as a decentralized body (unlike the House of Representatives), the Senate, when full of independant-minded senators, can be unmanageable in the extreme. If someone doesn't like a piece of legislation, they can filibuster it. It's very hard to override such a filibuster, because two thirds of the senators have to agree to do so. Remember that each of those senators might, in the future, wish to filibuster themselves, and so they might be reluctant to shut down someone else's expression of reluctance. This led to the Senate not doing a whole lot during the thirties and forties, or at least not a lot that was controversial. When Johnson entered the Senate, the first thing he was confronted with was a Majority Leader who was so inneffective he couldn't get re-elected, and his replacement couldn't either. By the time Lyndon Johnson got the job, it was considered the death knell of your career. It also took a good deal of seniority to get there (you had to hold your seat in the Senate for a long time), and Lyndon Johnson was a new senator.<br />How did he overcome both of these restrictions? Readers of the first two volumes, familiar with Johnson's obsequious relationship with legendary Speaker of the House Sam Rayburn (Mr. Sam) won't be surprised to find that Johnson found a mentor in the Senate and flattered the guy shamelessly. The individual was Richard B. Russell (one of the Senate office buildings is named for him), a patrician blueblood from Georgia who insisted that segregation was the only solution to the race problem in the South, and that anyone who said otherwise was trying to destroy Southern culture or something. He was courteous, friendly, elaborately cultured, and intensely polite. He never used ratial epithets on the floor of the Senate, as did some of the more virulent race-baiters from the deep South. Only very occasionally did the mask slip, and the racist emerge...<br />The author has a wonderful way with prose, and his descriptions of people make this an extremely worthwhile book. I would like to recommend it to anyone interested in Lyndon Johnson, or the United States government, or politics in general.	2003-04-06
1174308:US	52850806	RZ9J3XFI8QSRO	0451208080	255226197	The Short Forever (A Stone Barrington Novel)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Stone Barrington comes in from the cold	Stuart Woods has been writing suspense novels for about 25 years now, and has been writing Stone Barrington stories, I would guess, for about 10. Stone is a former NYPD homicide detective who had to retire after he got shot, and turned himself into a lawyer. He works for a prestigious law firm, in a sort of non-conventional fashion, basically taking all of the work the firm's regular lawyers don't want to handle.<br />In this book, one of the partners sends Stone a client. The guy is apparently rich, and he wants a niece in London protected from her boyfriend, a shady character who's smuggling drugs. Stone's assignment is to go to London, and get the boyfriend arrested for something legitimate, thereby getting him out of the picture as far as the girl is concerned.<br />Only nothing is what it seems, of course. The guy isn't the girl's uncle, the boyfriend isn't smuggling drugs, and basically everything turns out to be a lot more dangerous than Stone had planned. Of course the romantic entanglements get a bit complicated, and of course Stone has various problems with the local constabulary (who think he killed an ex-cop), and of course there are various spies and other individuals tripping through the story all over the place.<br />This is the most complicated novel Stuart Woods has ever written, I think. It shows. There are several plot threads that aren't taken to any conclusion at the climax of the book, and the conclusion, while generally satisfying, is a bit mundane and unsuspenseful. There are several interesting characters you want to see again (including a British girl spy named Carpenter), but there are also developments in Stone's life (Arrington's back, and his girlfriend left him).<br />This is, to be frank, an average Stuart Woods novel...not as suspenseful as some, but more complex than most. I would recommend it.	2003-04-01
1184853:US	52850806	RK4HT1C810Z3Z	0743205022	444632912	Holy War Inc. Inside the Secret World of Osama Bin Laden	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Osama & Company	I've been trying to read books on the middle east since September 11 changed all of our lives, and this is one of the books I picked up in that effort. It's better than some of the others I've read: better written than Bodansky's book on Osama, for instance, and with a premise that's easier to understand, and agree with, than Barber's silly Jihad vs. McWorld.<br />Peter Bergen has actually met Osama bin Laden once. He did an interview with him (along with Peter Arnett) in a cave in Afghanistan in the mid '90s. In this book he builds on that, and recounts what is known of Osama's life, family, actions, and character. He only once or twice ventures into the \\"we have to understand why he's mad at us\\" idiocy that pervades so much of the left and the media, and he actually talks intelligently about the Arab world.<br />The book does have a reportorial style more suitable to a long magazine article, perhaps in Newsweek or Time, than a book. This leads the author to recount tidbits and anecdotes from most of the middle east during his various visits there. These are interesting, or annoying, depending on your point of view. I found them for the most part fun, and occasionally informative, as in when the author has to fill out forms before he can order drinks in the hotel bar in Islamabad.<br />Given that Bergen is a reporter, this is a very good book in terms of information, and I recommend.	2003-03-22
1187599:US	52850806	RAHU4PYZQQ87I	0803282788	766880512	Atlanta 1864: Last Chance for the Confederacy (Great Campaigns of the Civil War)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Sherman before Atlanta	Richard M. McMurry is best known to me as the principle modern biographer of John Bell Hood. His book on that general was judicious and intelligent, if short, but Hood wasn't a particularly prominent character in the Civil War, at least for the first half of the war, so it seemed reasonable. Atlanta 1864 is as far as I know his second book, and while it's good, it's also very short and cursory.<br />The book covers the campaign in the spring and summer of 1864, when Sherman challenged first Johnston and then Hood for the city of Atlanta, which turned out to be decisive in the outcome of the war. The campaign has been controversial ever since, not the least because the two principle Confederate commanders engaged in a vicious debate for some years after the campaign, and only ceased when Hood died suddenly. Frankly, this aspect of the campaign would have been interesting to go over again, but the author only briefly deals with it, instead concentrating on the campaign itself, and the events that occurred in 1864.<br />Sherman has a very good reputation as a general, and much of that rests on the Atlanta campaign that is the book's focus. Johnston too has a good rep, and Hood, by contrast, has a very poor one as an army commander. Much of the author's attention is taken up going over the performance of these three men during the campaign, looking at the decisions they made in a strategic sense, whether they could have chosen to do something else more advantageous, and how their decisions fared. All three generals come in for some criticism, though Sherman gets by with the least. Johnston is criticized for a variety of things, and praised for little, while poor Hood appears to have been out of his depth, in the mind of the author.<br />The campaign itself is detailed only briefly, with battles occupying a paragraph or two, and strategic maneuvers a page or so. The decision to fire Johnston and replace him with Hood, made by Davis in the midst of the campaign, gets a whole chapter. The campaign is put into context with a couple of chapters that detail what was happening in other parts of the country, politically and militarily. Everything is laid out so that it's easy to understand, and the discussion is reasonable.<br />I don't agree with all of the conclusions of the book (for instance, I think Grant's Overland Campaign of 1864 was a success, not a failure) but the discussion is interesting, and nothing's particularly out of place or unreasonable. I would recommend this book to any Civil War buff. It's a very good book.	2003-03-20
1202584:US	52850806	R3JA5QSRVEPCJE	0451204530	356134546	Code To Zero	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Space Race thriller	Code to Zero is an unusual book. The main part of the plot takes place over a period of a couple of days in 1958, though there are flashbacks to earlier periods, some of them the better part of two decades. The author jumps between the plot and the flashbacks rather seamlessly.<br />In the main story, the protagonist wakes up in a men's room in a train station, dressed as a bum. He's not certain what or who he is, but he thinks he has skills and that his clothing isn't a good representation of his status. He soon gets his bearings and begins to regain his footing, stealing clothes and a car, then working on figuring out who he is. Eventually this develops into a mystery: once he knows who he is, he must find out why he lost his memory, and more importantly what he was supposed to forget.<br />I did have a few problems with the story. Though I won't give away any of the twists of the plot, I will tell you that I thought it a bit much for the main character to be all of the things he is in the story. And I will say I found the solution to the story to be a bit obvious and predictable. Those things being said, the writing is good, and the action flows along quickly and seamlessly, so you don't notice you're reading that much.<br />This is a good book, and I enjoyed it.	2003-03-07
1202896:US	52850806	R1JT3AHN0UPMGE	9684068573	744685956	Monstrum (Spanish Edition)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Future fiction masquerading as mystery novel	Donald James has written a strange novel that I enjoyed, but only in a limited fashion. In it the stage is set in 2015, in Russia. Constantin Vadim has been transferred from Murmansk to Moscow to run a homicide squad, for which he has no experience and little talent. This, however, is a cover, as he in reality is to act as a double impersonating the Vice President of the new country, Leonid Koba, who is really the power behind the throne.<br />No sooner does Vadim arrive in Moscow than it develops that his assignment as homicide investigator is going to be a real problem for him. For one thing, though his staff is large, most of them only engage in private enterprise for one of his superiors, and he can't complain about this. As a result, his squad of investigators is very small. In addition, there's a particularly nasty serial killer on the loose, nicknamed Monstrum because of the gruesome mutilations he inflicts on his female prostitute victims.<br />Then there are Vadim's personal problems. He's divorced from an ideologue who joined the losing side in the just-concluded Civil War, an anarchist with a seemingly endless ability to prevaricate and justify her actions, though they are less and less moral as time goes on. Vadim also has an affair with an American official who's helping with the Amnesty program locally in Russia, and a flirtation with the medical examiner. There's a dead son by the ex-wife, who figures in the plot, and various other characters.<br />One of the problems with this story is the way it's structured. I recently read a Mickey Spillane novel where the author managed to hold the final surprise of the book to the last sentence: there's no pretence of that here, instead the mystery concludes 40 pages from the end of the book, and the author then has to wind up the various plots. It's a bit anti-climactic...<br />I will say, though, that I did enjoy this book, and would recommend it.	2003-03-07
1210410:US	52850806	R3VSAM0OON31AE	0743200012	184977222	Tomorrow to Be Brave: A Memoir of the Only Woman Ever to Serve in the French Foreign Legion	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Don't Wait for the movie	I'm a student of military history. I read a good deal of stuff on the Second World War, studying various battles and campaigns. A few months ago I read John Bierman and Colin Smith's book on the battle of Alamein, and it included information about a woman who'd been in the French Foreign Legion, and served during the battle of Gazala as General Pierre Koenig's driver, enduring the bombardment and siege of Bir Hakeim. I was interested in this, and obtained a copy of the book. Whoa! Susan Travers, now in her 90's, has a story to tell.<br />The daughter of well-to-do English parents who lived in France for most of her adolesence, Travers spent most of the thirties on the continent, playing tennis, gambling, and cavorting with a series of lovers who were all uninterested in settling down with her. When World War II began, she decided to turn her independant streak (which had led to her learning to drive a car) into an asset, and join the armed forces, fighting for the Allies somehow. She wound up in the French army, trained as a nurse, drove an ambulance briefly in Finland, and then wound up in Africa.<br />There she served briefly in the campaign in Ethiopia, then was moved to Syria. Here, the doctor that she usually drove for was greviously wounded, and his replacement couldn't stand the thought of a female driver. He complained to his superior, and the next thing Travers knew she was driving for Pierre Koenig, who at the time was a colonel in the Free French army fighting in Syria. Soon the campaign was over, and Travers could set up house with the married Koenig for several months, because the colonel's wife was conveniently absent.<br />Their affair, however, had to remain secret for the most part. She stayed his driver when the unit he commanded was transferred to the Western Desert in Libya. Soon, the British ordered all women out of the Front lines, but she contrived to make her way back, and was at the post the Free French brigade held for most of the battle. This was Bir Hakeim, a crossroads in the desert that had been fortified with trenches and bunkers dug in the desert floor. Bir Hakeim was the southernmost part of the Allied position at the Battle of Gazala, and it was an important one. After initially attempting to take it quickly by storm, the Germans bypassed it and left its capture to the Italians, who repeatedly failed. The Germans then returned and also failed, and when the post was finally worn down to the point defense was no longer an option, the garrison surprised everyone by breaking out and escaping in their vehicles.<br />The Bir Hakeim battle makes up the middle quarter or so of the book, and it's a marvelous story. Travers was Koenig's driver for the whole battle, which means that when the breakout occurred, she drove the general's car. The car was hit by numerous bullets, but she and her passengers survived without being harmed.<br />After the battle, she and the general had to separate (the German propaganda machine made a thing of their affair) and she spent most of the rest of the war driving an ambulance or doctors. When the war ended she managed to enlist in the Foreign Legion, and served several years in overseas posts. Eventually she married a legionnaire, had children, and left the legion herself. When her husband finally passed away, she decided it was time to tell her story. I'm very glad she did.	2003-03-01
1217419:US	52850806	R3UEZE7337IF34	0684824353	796343836	A Brotherhood of Valor: The Common Soldiers of the Stonewall Brigade, C.S.A., and the Iron Brigade, U.S.A	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Dual Unit history is worthwhile	Jeffrey Wert has been writing Civil War history for a good while, and I've read most of his books, starting with the history of the Shenandoah Valley campaign in 1864. The present book is a history of the campaigns of the Stonewall Brigade, and the Iron Brigade. Both units are much storied: each has an individual history currently available. The Iron Brigade's is by noted Civil War historian Alan T. Nolan; the Stonewall Brigade's is one of the early works of Stonewall Jackson biographer James I. Robertson, Jr. Wert melds these two books with many others, diaries and letters, and fashions a sort of dual group biography of the units, following them across the battlefields of Virginia.<br />The Stonewall brigade earned its nickname at Manassas, where it defended a prominent terrain feature called Henry House Hill. This feature, and the Brigade's defense of it, proved to be the pivotal point of the battle. The author does a good job bringing this and other battles to life through the accounts of the participants and witnesses. One of the regiments that later formed the Iron Brigade, the 2nd Wisconsin, also participated in the battle, and ran away with the rest of the army when the Union finally lost the battle.<br />This points up the first annoyance of the book. Wert has chosen two units to follow, but one of them was at its peak before the other one was. This means that the early part of the book concentrates to a fair extent on the Confederates, while the latter part of the book features the Yankee unit to a larger extent. The two units did fight on the same battlefield three times, though they only really opposed one another once, at Groveton, or Brawner Farm. That engagement marked the debut of the Iron Brigade (then known as the Black Hat Brigade, after their distinctive headgear) as a unit, and sowed the seeds of their reputation.<br />The book follows the two units through Gettysburg, but afterwards only summarizes the campaigns that the survivors participated in. The Overland Campaign of 1864 saw the virtual destruction of both units. Wert devotes considerably less space to these events than he did to the earlier campaigns, especially Gettysburg.<br />I genuinely enjoyed this book. Wert is one of the more prolific Civil War writers these days, and his books are lively and enjoyable, while also providing interesting information and having a point of view. I would recommend this book to all interested in the Civil War.	2003-02-23
1218652:US	52850806	R2GAW3M16MJB9Q	0451203526	546514456	1: The Mike Hammer Collection: Volume I	Books	4	58	59	N	N	Spillane Still a crowd pleaser	Mickey Spillane wrote detective novels half a century ago. It's well-known that he was not very well-liked by the literary community. There's a veiled derisive reference to one of his stories in one of the later Philip Marlowe novels. Even after all of this time, Spillane still gets little respect.<br />This is unfortunate, but this collection goes some way towards fixing that I think. The three books presented here are the first three Spillane wrote, published just after World War II, and Max Alan Collins' thoughtful introduction puts them in context so the reader knows what they're looking at. Basically, if you've seen plot twists or devices in other stories that appear here also, it's a good bet that Spillane invented them, and someone else used them (usually while not crediting Spillane himself).<br />The three books included in this series are I, the Jury (1947), My Gun is Quick (1950) and Vengeance is Mine (also 1950). All three are variations on the same plot, which apparently is a Spillane hallmark. The main character, Mike Hammer, is somehow involved in a murder, knows the victim, and swears revenge on the killer. He then spends most of the book sorting through clues, talking to witnesses, and getting beaten up. There's then a final scene where Hammer has figured out who the killer is, and confronts said killer. The killers never get arrested: Hammer shoots them, so that there's no trial.<br />The dialog and situations are very dated, and somewhat hackneyed. My wife read one of these books sometime ago, and her observation is very appropriate. Spillane invented the genre, but he's been imitated so much that the original looks a bit cliched.<br />That being said there are some really amusing cultural indicators here. For instance, while the books were considered scandalous at the time, there are no four-letter words in the text (none are spelled out anyway). There's much breathless necking and so forth, but the sex is actually pretty tame. In the first book,Hammer actually won't have sex with the girl he's romantically involved with because they aren't married yet. The slang is so dated that at times it's unintentionally funny: Hammer and his best friend Captain Pat Chambers call one another kid repeatedly, for instance. Hammer walks around telling everyone that he's going to kill the murderer in a fashion that no one would condone today, and no writer would try to slip past an editor.<br />I really enjoyed these books, and I would recommend them to anyone interested in detective novels, and noir fiction. They are definitely anachronisms, but they're fun, nonetheless.	2003-02-22
1224979:US	52850806	R1JPTKJO61GLV3	0304359831	262743568	History of Warfare: The Napoleonic Wars	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Brief Overview of the wars of Napoleon	Napoleon Bonaparte influenced warfare more than any other figure of his age, and arguably more than any other figure of history. He almost conquered Europe, and his influence spread through society in a myriad of ways, from sugar beet production (which he stimulated) to tactics (which he influenced but did not reinvent). This book concentrates on the military aspects of his influence, and the wars he beget over the last dozen years of his influence, 1803-15.<br />Cassell has a number of these histories out now, short books lavishly illustrated with pictures and beautiful maps. The Napoleonic Wars covers the central events of Europe 1803-15. The book begins with two chapters that summarize events before the period the book focuses on, and Napoleon's life before that era. We then get five chapters, about a hundred and fifty pages of narrative recounting the major campaigns of the wars of Napoleon. Each of the campaigns only gets a few pages, and battles often only are briefly mentioned. When there's more detail, as at Waterloo, the narrative still moves quickly and only a few pages suffice to recount what happened. <br />Rothenberg is one of the better-known historians of the Napoleonic age. His main point here (and he's made the point elsewhere) is that these wars weren't the last wars of the classical age, but the first ones of the modern one. I would submit that in ways they were both, but that's more of a nuance than an actual difference of opinion. The points he makes are generally well-reasoned, and the narrative tends to support them.<br />Books that deal with Napoleon tend to divide into two groups: those that praise him to the heavens, and those that are critical of him, to a lesser or greater extent. This book falls into the latter category, though the criticisms are generally gentle. The few other soldiers who get some attention (Wellington, Archduke Charles, and Blucher) are only cursorily covered.<br />The maps are gorgeous, and illustrate the narrative pretty well. I would recommend this book to the casual reader who wished to know something more about the Wars of this era.	2003-02-17
1227543:US	52850806	RHDPSBVAZ9S92	0871138387	427150403	LAbyrinth: A Detective Investigates the Murders of Tupac Shakur and Notorious B.I.G. The Implication of Death Row Records' Suge Knight and the Origins of the Los Angeles Police Scandal	Books	4	30	31	N	N	Open a can of Worms...	I was drawn to this book by a radio interview I heard a year ago or so, I believe with the author (I missed the beginning of the interview) in which he detailed some of the allegations of shoddy policework that attended the LAPD's investigation of the murder of Christopher Wallace, who went by the rap alias Notorious B.I.G. One eye-opener was an eyewitness to the shooting who was willing to cooperate but was never contacted by authorities, and was shot to death in a housing project back east two months later. So I bought the book, and basically more of my opinions on the LAPD scandals of the last several years were confirmed.<br />The book starts with Russell Poole, a decorated detective with basically impeccable credentials, investigating a shooting in the San Fernando Valley. The shooter and the victim both turned out to be police officers: the shooter, Frank Lyga, was a white undercover narcotics detective, the man killed, Kevin Gaines, a black patrolman. When the detectives went to the house the black policeman was living in, they were a bit taken aback to discover it was a mansion in Beverly Hills. The man's girlfriend was Suge Knight's estranged wife. Knight, the owner of Death Row Records, had an unsavory reputation for intimidation, extortion, drug dealing, and murder anyway, so the police were somewhat taken aback.<br />Soon, Poole agrees to become the lead detective in the investigation of the shooting of Wallace mentioned above, and discovers that there may be LAPD officers involved in the killing, or at least working for Suge Knight. Soon, that part of the investigation is derailed, and Poole is ordered by superiors to look in other directions that he's sure will be fruitless, and of course they turn out to be. Meanwhile connections to other incidents, including the killing of Tupac Shakur in Las Vegas, surface, but nothing's pursued.<br />The minutae of the story does at times bog it down. This does one bad thing in terms of the book: it serves to obscure the author's basic message, which is that the political leadership in Los Angeles and its minority-run suburbs (notably Compton) are unwilling to investigate people like Suge Knight too closely, and the Los Angeles media is willing to cover for them because to do otherwise would damage various minority (read black) politicians and city leaders. Prominent in this category is Bernard Parks, the controversial now ex-chief of police. Sullivan has him basically uninterested in corruption among black police officers when he was in charge of the Internal Affairs division, and later when he was chief. The mayor, and Maxine Waters, our most prominent local black politician (she's a congresswoman from Compton and South-Central LA) are also implicated, if not in corruption, then in condoning it.<br />The last part of the book, however, was a surprise for me. When Poole was investigating the connections between Death Row Records and various black police officers who were illegally working for the company providing security, one of the officers involved was a gang task force detective named Rafael Perez. For those not up to date on LA current affairs, Perez was caught with several kilos of cocaine, and turned state's evidence in return for a reduced sentence. The subsequent investigation led to what's been known as the Rampart police scandal, after the Rampart division where it occurred. His testimony got many (hundreds) of people released from prison, and has resulted in the city paying millions (some estimate it's going to run into the hundreds of millions or even more) in damages to the alleged victims. Perez himself is something of a chamelion (black to blacks, latino to latinos, colorless to whites) and apparently has been fabricating at least some of his allegations, but meanwhile he's worked himself a deal such that he's already negotiating a release from prison. Poole's investigation seemed to show that Perez's allegations should be carefully viewed, but the higher-ups in the LAPD wouldn't listen, and the whole thing has blown up in their faces. Even worse, they shut down the gang task force that Perez was part of, and predictably gang homicides increased almost immediately.<br />This is a tangled, convoluted, difficult book. People get killed left and right, and most of those killed aren't exactly angels themselves. Notorious B.I.G., for instance, was a drug dealer before he became a rapper, and Tupac shouldn't need any introduction. The implication that the police are or were running interference for the people who killed them, however, is pretty horrifying, and the author presents some evidence that one cop should be at least looked at in connection with Notorious B.I.G.'s murder itself, though an associate of his is the likely shooter. While this is troubling, it's the racial politics that's the most aggravating to me. One person is quoted as saying that the L.A. Times, for instance, wouldn't investigate the story further because they didn't want to be involved in bringing down an African-American police chief (Bernard Parks). This sort of thing has to stop. While Suge Knight is black, yes, so were most if not all of this victims. Failing to demand justice on that rationale is insane, and if the allegations in the book have merit, they should be investigated thoroughly.	2003-02-15
1233300:US	52850806	R3O32NACUO288	0738508004	480316883	Central West End, St. Louis (MO) (Images of America)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Photos of a bygone age	My wife got this book because she's from St.Louis, though not from this neighborhood. It's a compilation of photos from the turn of the century and before, depicting mostly architecture of the neighborhood known as the Central West End, once a tony area where the city's wealthiest residents lived. While it was for a long time a slum, it's apparently undergoing a renovation, and hopefully will regain it's luster.<br />For those not familiar with the Images of America series, these are slim volumes (this one's 128 pages) with typically two photographs per page, and a small caption. There's sometimes an introduction of several paragraphs or a page or two at the beginning of the book, though in this one it's at the front and runs to only slightly more than one page. The focus is on the photos of the buildings of a bygone era, mansions, churches, government buildings and businesses, sometimes with quaint people standing in front of them looking sharp for the camera.<br />This book centers on the Central West End of St.Louis, a neighborhood that grew up in the late 1800's to accomodate the wealthy of the city who wished to avoid the riffraff. There's a large park in the center of the neighborhood, and the 1904 St.Louis World's Fair was held there. There's a whole chapter devoted to the Fair itself. There's also a chapter devoted to a tornado which devastated the neighborhood some years later, and several chapters devoted to the renovation efforts.<br />A book like this lives or dies by its photos. This book has some beautiful pictures of houses that used to belong to wealthy people, and some of relatively modest accomodations that housed once-famous people. Some of the captions are a bit erroneous or unhelpful, and one that shows a pair of kids riding a turtle is somewhat humorous. It says they're riding the turtle for fun, but their facial expressions say otherwise.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book, and it makes me want to visit the area portrayed in the book.	2003-02-10
1235680:US	52850806	R42QFSTOP9RUN	0743435729	65617579	The Honor of the Queen (Honor Harrington #2)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Honor Harrington returns	Let me reiterate: I despise science fiction. The authors can make up any dilemma they wish for the characters, and make up any solution, and there's nothing to keep them honest. Also the writing tends to be mediocre at best, full of silly metaphors that mean nothing to you and much wooden prose. And I dislike pastiches, especially when I enjoyed the basis for the imitation. So this is strange. I like Honor Harrington, and the series of books about her, which imitate my old favorite Horatio Hornblower (notice the initials?). <br />In this, the second of Honor's adventures, she's been sent from her home system of Manticore to Grayson, an outlying system inhabited by a society of misogynistic religious fanatics from earth. Their problem is that their neighbors, on the planet of Masada, are even more fanatical than they are, and consider anyone who disagrees with them \\"apostates\\" and think them better off dead. The People's Republic of Haven has decided to take advantage of that, and sent a small fleet of warships to Masada, where they join the Masadan navy and completely upset the balance of power. Both Grayson and Masadan societies were originally very luddite, so their own fleets are nothing compared to what the Havenites and the Manticorans can put into the mix. When the Masadans and their Havenite allies attack, the result is a test for Honor and her ships, as the Havenites fleet is larger than hers, and contains a battlecruiser she can't hope to match at anything like even odds.<br />There are many things for Honor to deal with along the way. She has an uncomfortable dinner with the chief of state of Grayson, winds up badly injured herself, has to deal with a very self-important diplomat, and the like. Hanging over everything is the overtly sexist society she's been ordered to protect.<br />Honor, of course, survives and handles it all with aplomb. The book's plot slides right along, and it's a good afternoon read. I would recommend it.	2003-02-08
1238885:US	52850806	R2LF8RTSN0RLC0	0670030074	86898519	Ambrose Bierce and the Death of Kings	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Second Bierce mystery not up to the quality of the first	I admire Ambrose Bierce's work above all other 19th century writers, with the exception of O. Henry. I enjoy visiting San Francisco. So when I saw that Oakley Hall had written a sequel to Ambrose Bierce and the Queen of Spades, I was eager to read it. Unfortunately, it doesn't live up to the promise of the first book.<br />Bierce was a short story writer and biting satirist who wrote newspaper columns and generally made a public nuisance of himself in the latter half of the 19th century. A Civil War veteran, his writings on the war anticipate much of the disillusionment and despair that characterizes later writings by Viet Nam veterans. He also wrote a considerable body of horror and ghost stories that are more modern than you might expect. He disappeared in the Mexican Civil War in 1914, and his fate has never been determined reliably. The movie Old Gringo speculated on this, and others have done so. One theory had it that he'd written The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, which anyone who'd read Bierce would know was highly unlikely. He despised novels.<br />So here we have the second of a series of novels about him. In the first there was motivation for him to get involved in the mystery, but here there isn't. Instead we have a missing Hawaiian princess, a dying Hawaiian king, and Bierce looking for said princess. There's no explanation of why Bierce is doing the looking, and no explanation of why his friend Tom Redmond decides to help. They just do. And there's also no suspense: it becomes obvious that she's gone of her own volition, and a friend tells them she's safe. Half of the book slides by before we finally get to some suspense.<br />An elderly Hawaiian judge is killed, and his rooms set on fire. Bierce and Redmond three-quarters of the book insisting they aren't interested in who killed him, and then are reluctantly drawn into figuring it out. It's mildly entertaining, but no where near as suspenseful or intricate as the first book.<br />Redmond, meanwhile, has recently lost his wife to illness, and romances a half-Hawaiian lady of considerable stature (over 6') who apparently likes him, but is determined to marry someone prosperous (Redmond's a mere reporter). Redmond accepts this, and it somehow robs the romance of whatever fire it would otherwise have. <br />There are scenes in restaurants, bars, houses, and the city jail, and all read believably, and interestingly. Bierce and the other characters are well-drawn, and interesting, and I enjoyed the character and atmosphere of the book. Unfortunately, there isn't much of a plot.	2003-02-06
1239664:US	52850806	R1CJQE6K3EUVZH	0345435648	672395112	Indigo Slam (The Elvis Cole)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Elvis Cole returns, sort of...	This is a reprint of a previously published Elvis Cole novel, originally out in the mid-90's. It's worth a second look though, especially if you like mysteries and didn't read it the first time around.<br />Elvis Cole is a private eye in West L.A. He has an office decorated with Disney figures (and a Jiminy Cricket clock) and a gun, and when things get tough he has a strange, enigmatic partner named Joe Pike, whose solution to problems usually involves shooting them. Cole does the detecting, Pike the heavy lifting, and of course the obligatory humor.<br />In this installment, Cole is approached by three children who wish to hire him to find their father. Initially put off by being hired by kids, he's persuaded when his girlfriend looks the situation over and decides that the kids are alright, they just need their dad. Soon, things take a nasty turn, as it develops that the Russian mob is also looking for the father. Throw in some right-wing Vietnamese revolutionaries, various Federal agents, and settings from the San Fernando Valley to Disneyland, and you get an interesting novel, complete with shootouts and much suspense. Oh, and Elvis's girlfriend turns out to have an ex-husband with a very long reach, and some powerful friends, and he makes things interesting too.<br />I've enjoyed this series since it started. I would highly recommend this book, and the series. You don't have to (really) read any of the other books before this one, though Voodoo River might not be a bad idea, so that you understand the relationship between Elvis and Lucy (the girlfriend).	2003-02-05
1241838:US	52850806	R38Y3O6XO4UY4V	0345383044	618631054	Jihad vs. McWorld: Terrorism's Challenge to Democracy	Books	3	28	49	N	N	Capitalism is Evil	I bought this book after September 11 because the cover describes it as being about the clash of cultures that culminated in September 11. If you've read any of the other reviews, you know that it's not that at all, really, certainly not specifically with regards to Islamic terrorism, in spite of the title. The book is instead about consumerism and capitalism (McWorld) penetrating to the far reaches of the globe, and the response from indigenous traditional cultures (Jihad). This jargonizing of the two movements he sees in the world are just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the problems this book has.<br />For one thing, while the author takes a great deal of time praising democracy, he clearly despises capitalism, though he denies this in the afterword (written the year after the book was originally published). Since he despises Western consumerism so much, he asks such profound inanities as \\"We are free to choose, but are we free to choose not to choose?\\" The problem with this is that Barber and those like them believe fervently that consumers are helpless before the advertising media, and that most people are therefore hypnotized into eating at McDonald's or Burger King because they saw a TV commercial. My guess is most of the customers of such places go there because of convenience and price.<br />You get the idea that Barber's a closet communist, or at least a socialist. He includes chapters towards the end of the book on the advance of \\"McWorld\\" into two former Communist countries, East Germany and Russia. In both cases there are sly references to people deciding that things were better when the communists were running things, and of course no one is happy with capitalism because some of the people will fail economically, and wind up bankrupt or impoverished. <br />Barber's disdain for McWorld and consumerism in general is highlighted by his penchant for jargonizing everything to do with the movement. So we have Hollyworld, videology, and my favorite, the dread infotainment telestructure. When he writes of Jihad (traditional culture) challenging McWorld, he jargonizes nothing beyond the movement, and is much more sympathetic. There's much of the old \\"we need to understand them and their culture, so we can learn from them\\" attitude when he discusses how McWorld is corrupting the culture that's currently for the most part run by dictators and corrupt monarchs. It's all a bit much.<br />The sad part is that some of the material here is actually intelligently presented, and I believe Barber makes a few good points. His general observations about the clash between consumerism and culture are sometimes good, if left-leaning. The problem is that he's so relentlessly opposed to capitalism that, towards the end of the book, he insists that he's not anti-capitalist, recounts one thing modern capitalism has done in world society, and then turns around and goes back to bashing it for despoiling the world, almost in a single sentence. That one thing (the amount of money capitalism generates) he has no idea how to replicate without capitalism, though of course he and every other socialist needs money if they're to pay for all the neat stuff they want to do for society.<br />One last word: the prose here is very dense. Barber has a good vocabulary, and isn't at all afraid to use it. I'm a very well-read individual, and I had a merry time getting through this book. I would recommend it only for those who are deeply interested in the topic.	2003-02-03
1242637:US	52850806	RLIBV5ZP0SZ00	0156027100	927332338	The Company of Strangers	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Fans of Alan Furst take note	A couple of years ago, Robert Wilson burst onto the espionage scene with A Small Death in Lisbon, which was a wonderful detective novel with elements of a spy novel. That book (and this one) is set in Portugal, where the author currently lives.<br />In the current volume, two different characters meet in Portugal, and become star-crossed lovers. One is a disillusioned German army officer, not sympathetic to the Nazis in the first place, who has been pushed over the edge by the death of his brother, which in turn precipitates the suicide of their father. He joins the anti-Nazi resistance, formally, and is involved in the coup attempt which culminated in the failed assasination of Hitler in July of 1944. Meanwhile, he's in Portugal, and falls in love with a young British woman who's ostensibly a secretary but in reality is also a spy, working for British Intelligence. Things go awry, and they are separated by the war. They meet again a quarter century later, and things take an ugly turn, and then meet yet again after another decade, in 1989.<br />The theme of the book is the two characters and their love of one another. This is well-told and laid out, but I had trouble keeping track of all of the minor characters in the first half of the book (a number of whom shoot one another in a climactic scene that ends the first half of the book). I also was somewhat surprised and puzzled at the ending, where a character who has a very large part to play in the end of the book is introduced with no background or anything, and there are things about him and the ending which aren't explained. It's not clear what exactly occurred at the end of the book, or at least why it occurred as it did, though all of this is pretty strongly hinted at. <br />This book pretty much demands comparison with the works of Alan Furst. It's in some ways better than what I've read of Furst, in other ways not as good. Furst's strong point, to my mind, is the atmosphere and characters that populate his books. In this book the atmosphere isn't quite as good, though it is worthy of reading. The plot here is however superior to Furst's, given that Furst typically doesn't have much of a plot at all, just a series of semi-connected events. <br />I enjoyed this book, and would recommend it.	2003-02-03
1246706:US	52850806	R1F0UM1LD6SD3D	0671038907	856111766	Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Collection of Chandler pastiches is uneven	Raymond Chandler and Philip Marlowe are the beginning of modern detective fiction, along with Hammett and Spade. Chandler was a preeminent stylist who wrote his way into American letters by helping to create a genre, the private eye novel. He cut his teeth writing short stories for pulps in the twenties and thirties, so it's appropriate that this collection highlights short stories. The stories were written by contemporary authors; the idea was to have them write stories with Marlowe as the main character, covering the period in which Marlowe figured in short stories that Chandler wrote. There is one story per year, with several on the back end of the collection that don't carry an exact date, and one story (\\"The Pencil\\") written by Chandler himself, late in life, to round things out.<br />The collection is, of course, uneven. Most of the writers more or less produce Chandler-like prose and characters, but some of the plots are distinctly unlike the great one. The collection starts off on the right foot with a Max Allan Collins story which is very good, and in the Collins mold. It's a historical mystery revolving around a thin pastiche of an old Hollywood mystery: who killed actress Thelma Todd? The rest of the stories are written by such leading lights as Robert Crais, Sara Paretsky, and Loren D. Estleman. They're rounded out by stories from such also-rans and where-are-they-nows as Benjamin Schutz, Francis Nevins Jr., Jonathan Valin, and Jeremiah Healy. I don't want to give the impression that I don't like any of the latter collection of writers (I particularly enjoyed Schutz), but they can hardly be called contemporaries, given that they haven't written in years.<br />I did enjoy the collection of stories, and I enjoyed the premise of the collection itself. I found the stories uneven. Some of them are very good, but some are overly cute. Two feature Chandler as a character, interacting with Marlowe. In one of those, he also butts heads with Ted Geisel (Dr. Seuss), who's only there, apparently, because he's Dr. Seuss. It's all a bit much. However, I overall enjoyed the collection, and would recommend it.	2003-01-30
1247976:US	52850806	REVQH1TU9JV45	0670030406	595178284	The Battle of Alamein: Turning Point, World War II	Books	4	5	5	N	N	History of the War in North Africa	John Bierman and Colin Smith are semi-retired journalists who live on the island of Cyprus in the Mediterranean. They collaborated on \\"Fire in the Night\\", a wonderful biography of Orde Wingate, a few years ago, and this is their second venture together. It's a very good book, with only one real criticism from me: given it's a history of a battle, it spends relatively little space discussing that battle.<br />The war in Libya was one of the last chivalrous conflicts in history. Almost all commentators agree that the Germans here were much less Nazi-like in the North African desert than anywhere else. The German commander, Erwin Rommel, the famed Desert Fox, wouldn't allow SS troops into the region, and insisted on treating enemy wounded and prisoners fairly and compassionately. The British generally responded in kind, and the army in Egypt was often shocked by the appearance of a soldier who'd been serving in Britain, seen houses bombed, and came out to the theater hating the Germans. The new arrivals were likewise shocked at the admiration the veterans had for the Germans.<br />The war went on for more than two years, if you count the British campaign against the Italians in the winter of 1940 and the Allied campaign in Tunisia in the spring of 1943. The heart of the campaign, and the book, was the year-and-a-half-or-so-long struggle between the British and their Commonwealth Allies on the one hand and the Germans and their Italian Allies on the other. The book spends a great deal of time dealing with several of the larger battles from the first part of the campaign, notably Crusader and Gazala. When you get to the Battle of Alamein itself, the book is half over.<br />Strangely, the battle of Alam Halfa, gets only cursory mention. This is odd, given that some people think that this was the first (or second) stage of the actual battle. Instead, the meat of the book describes \\"Supercharge\\", the British attack on Rommel's forces which finally, conclusively, defeated the Germans in the North African Desert.<br />One of the reviews above says that the authors are uncritical of the leadership personalities in the war. I don't think this is particularly fair: the authors spend a considerable amount of time telling you of Rommel's mistakes, and failures, and health problems. They also spend a good deal of time detailing the mistakes made by various British commanders, and Churchill comes in for his share of criticism. When we get to Montgomery, he's relatively gently dealt with, but this *was* the period of his greatest success. I've never completely agreed with the Correlli Barnett theory that Monty was completely a figment of his own fantasies, and a lousy general. Here, vain, self-promoting, and stubborn as he was, he comes across as the man who used all of these characteristics to defeat the Afrika Korps, and win the battle. It's a fair, balanced appraisal, and not that favorable, but it shows why he won the battle.<br />Like I said, the one criticism is the way the book is structured. The actual portion of the book that deals with the battle in the title is only 80 pages, maybe, of 400. The introduction to the war, and the early campaigns, take up individually almost as much. There are little sidebars with interesting personalities from the war, writers and poets and so forth. You learn of the woman who served in the French Foreign Legion at Bir Hacheim, the Hungarian nobleman adventurer who was the basis for the book The English Patient, and a score of other participants in the war. There is a prologue and an epilogue detailing reunions and commemoration ceremonies that are still being held with veterans from the war. This part is especially well done.<br />I enjoyed the book a great deal. I just wish they'd spent a little more time on the battle itself.	2003-01-29
1248651:US	52850806	R3KB6BAPPU17E0	038549565X	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Epic Account of World War II's Greatest Rescue Mission	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Hostage Rescue Mission that worked	Ghost Soldiers is the story of the Cabanatuan Raid in January 1945, where about 500 Allied Prisoners of War and internees were dramatically rescued by two companies of American Rangers, who slipped through Japanese lines and attacked their prison camp for the express purpose of doing so. The book does a marvelous job of recounting the operation.<br />The author starts with an account of the massacre of prisoners in another camp on Palawan, to the south of Luzon, and the survivor's recounting of this event to the U.S. military. The author then alternates subjects of his chapters, with the rescue effort changing places with the prisoners' experiences during the years they were prisoners of the Japanese.<br />The prisoners' experiences, as they always are with the Japanese, are horrific, and difficult to read, but the author does a good job of recounting them without being morbid or hateful. One previous reviewer says that the author doesn't spend enough time on the motivations of the Japanese guards who perpetrated the war crimes. It's always difficult to get people to talk about this sort of thing, and given the differences between the Japanese and American cultures at the time, it's amazing that we have any understanding of what was going on at all. For decades, the Japanese denied that there were any war crimes at all, or insisted that they were committed by a few &quot;bad people&quot;, now conveniently dead.<br />Hampton Sides isn't a military historian, and in a few instances in the book this shows. However, he is a skilled writer, and this is frankly more important. The story he tells is skillfully recounted, and the author does a wonderful job of telling the story, and what happened to the men who lived it after the war.	2003-01-29
1257754:US	52850806	R2C1U0DM2FOQHU	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Insider's view of CBS News	Bias starts with a single incident. Bernard Goldberg is told by a friend that a report done on the CBS Evening News with Dan Rather was a hatchet job. When he looks into the report, he finds that yes, the story was deliberately slanted against Steve Forbes' flat tax plan, which the reporter referred to as \\"wacky.\\" The reporter dissected the idea behind the plan with the help of three economic experts, all of whom agreed it was a terrible idea. The experts weren't identified as liberals, and no mention was made of the fact that some economists (Milton Friedman for one) think the flat tax is a good idea, and workable. When Goldberg brought this up with people at CBS News, he was given the cold shoulder, so he wrote an editorial, and to compound his sin, published it on the Wall Street Journal's notoriously conservative editorial page. So far so good.<br />The abovementioned incident, and the firestorm the editorial created at his job, take up the first third of this book. We learn much about the author's dispute with Dan Rather, all of it gossip column style, with amusing anecdotes and quotes. Goldberg seems rather puzzled by the animosity that accompanies such arrogance and unrestricted power in one such as Dan Rather, as if he hasn't heard the old absolute-power-corrupts-absolutely quote. In spite of this, it is entertaining to read, if a bit of a tempest in a teapot.<br />The author then goes ahead and tells us what he saw in 28 years of media coverage of events, with emphasis on bias. Unfortunately, the answer is not that much, at least not that he can say. He does say he had to leave out several incidents because people could get fired if he were to repeat the occurrences or the things people said in response to them.<br />He does have *some* substance, though. He recounts several incidents and telling instances of pervasive bias that are illuminating, if hardly news to a conservative. He's not the first person to note that homelessness was exaggerated to make Ronald Reagan look bad, and certainly not the first to wonder where all those homeless people went when Clinton was elected. He also has a series of quotes from people in the media (or at least on TV) saying nasty things about Conservatives, and wonders out loud whether anyone could say any of that about a Liberal and remain on the air. <br />The book does have flaws, however. It has an insider's point of view, and perhaps takes too long making its point that Dan Rather is intolerant of criticism and dissent. The anecdote about Rather thinking that the New York Times editorial page is middle of the road is funny though. Goldberg says he didn't notice the bias in much of the time he was reporting, though, so the stories he tells give you the impression that this all happened recently. No mention, for instance, of the Checkers speech, and that era.<br />There is a tendency in many of the other reviews here to pan the book if you're a liberal, and praise it if you're a conservative. I don't think there's a single reviewer who identified him/herself as a liberal who had anything good to say about the book. To my mind, this means if you pick this book up, you've probably already made your mind up. That's a shame.	2003-01-22
1258718:US	52850806	RZT8EQPQNU3WN	0375758275	894188613	The Polish Officer: A Novel	Books	4	50	52	N	N	Espionage and intrigue in Occupied Europe	Alan Furst has apparently been writing books of this genre for some years now. The plots all take place during the period just prior to World War II, or the during the war itself. Each of the characters is somewhat compromised, morally or otherwise. Here, the main character is Captain Alexander de Milja, a Polish army officer whose main duty, in peacetime, was as a cartographer and intelligence officer. Now that the war has started, he's helping defend Warsaw, but he's soon called away to escort a supply of gold and specie across the border into Romania. From there, his bosses in the military intelligence bureau wish him to spy on the Germans, first in Paris, later in other parts of France and elsewhere. He moves with ease from one theater of the war to another, repeatedly surviving when others around him are captured or killed. He has affairs, makes and loses friends, watches as others are betrayed by traitors, even executes said traitor himself on one occasion.<br />The one thing the book does extremely well is portray the lives of ordinary people during the war. The author seems to have a view of the mundane populace of an occupied country, and what they do or say or when they go on vacation. When they spy for de Milja, they do so for mundane reasons, for the most part, and their reactions when they get caught aren't heroic, for the most part, either. The novel is told in a series of grays (if they ever make a movie, it'll have to be black and white) with few if any colors in the landscape. <br />If I have a serious criticism, it's that there really isn't a plot. Instead, the story is basically a series of incidents involving a single individual, and if he'd structured it differently it could be a short story collection, plotwise. That's how connected the various plots are. <br />In spite of that, I enjoyed it a great deal, and would recommend the book.	2003-01-21
1258886:US	52850806	R1SCJ38UI53619	184022214X	461321976	Slim: The Standardbearer : A Biography of Field-Marshal the Viscount Slim (Wordsworth Military Library)	Books	4	32	34	N	N	"Slim" biography of a brilliant soldier	William J. Slim was an interesting soldier. He served for forty years in the British and Indian armies, rose to be a field marshal, served as governor general of Australia, and wrote what is considered to be one of the best memoirs to come out of the war, certainly among the best written by a senior officer. All of this, and many who read about World War II have never heard of him.<br />Slim was born the son of an unsuccessful businessman from Birmingham. His father sold wholesale hardware, and went bankrupt when Slim was in his teens, prompting the young man to look for a job that would afford him a paycheck for little outlay. He joined an army officer training course at Birmingham University (somehow without being a student of that institution, and neat trick) and when World War I started, he was mustered into the army as a lieutenant, and sent off to war.<br />He served first in Gallipoli, then Mesapotamia (later known as Iraq) and when the war ended, joined the Indian army, serving mostly with Gurkha regiments. By the mid-thirties, he'd seen enough service that when the war started he soon bounced up to corps command, and was instrumental in the retreat of the British army from Burma. The first offensive back into the country (the Arakan offensive) almost got Slim sacked, but someone perceptively relieved his senior instead, and he got the man's job. He fought, and won, the battles of Kohima-Imphal, and later Meiktila, and reconquered Burma. Afterwards, he was again almost sacked, instead promoted Field Marshal, and made Chief of the Imperial General Staff over the objections of his predecessor, Montgomery. From there, with some diversions, he became the Governor General of Australia, which he did almost until his death.<br />Lewin is a competent writer, but no master of prose or anything, and he concentrates on Slim and his career. There's little information on Slim's family, such as when his parents died, and almost nothing on his silblings. The author does spend a little bit of time on Mrs. Slim, and the children, but not much. There are some amusing anecdotes (especially concerning his time as Governor General of Australia) and a few myths get put to rest. The most prevalent one is the story that Slim enlisted in the army as a private and was eventually promoted all the way to Field Marshal. This is shown to be just not true, unfortunately: he joined the army through an officer's training course, much like the American ROTC.<br />The middle part of the book covers the war in Burma, and does a good job of it. The principle issue in a book dealing with Burma is whether you come down on the side of Orde Wingate and the Chindits, or against them. Wingate was a strange, fanatical, brilliant, annoying soldier who formed the Chindits, a unit of light infantry that fought in the jungle behind Japanese lines, supplied by air. Slim, and many soldiers in the conventional army, thought Wingate heedless of difficulties, and unscrupulous, to say the least, while his defenders think he won the war in Burma, and despise those who tried to \\"hold Wingate back.\\" Lewin comes down gently on the side of Slim, as you might expect, but carefully lets you know how deceitful and devious Wingate could be when he wanted something.<br />Altogether, while this isn't a masterful biography, it is a good book and a worthy tribute to a wonderful soldier.	2003-01-21
1259091:US	52850806	R425PY2N01W6Y	0446530263	851224138	Mortal Allies	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful legal thriller set in Korea	Sean Drummond is summoned to Korea. He's a JAG lawyer, and in this case he's going to act as the military member of a defense team that's mostly civilian. They're defending a gay army officer who's accused of a rape murder. As if the savagery of the crime isn't bad enough, the victim is the son of the Korean defense minister, and it's beginning to look as if any sign that the defendant might get off with anything less than the death penalty could cause the U.S. alliance with South Korea to tumble into the ocean. And that's just the beginning of his troubles.<br />The civilian lawyer he's working for is a woman he fought with constantly in law school. She doesn't know how to try military cases without antagonizing the army, doesn't care if she does antagonize them, and is basically culturally insensitive to the Koreans, also. The result is that Drummond spends most of his time trying to repair damage she's done, or forestall what she's about to do, so that the case doesn't completely come off the rails. It comes off anyway, but in a fashion that's unexpected and interesting, and suspenseful enough, that the last third of the novel is great. The minor characters (a pair of lesbians who are co-counsels on the case, an army non-com who's their legal assistant, various officers, the defendant and his colleagues) all are well-drawn, and the whole effect is very good.<br />I would recommend this book highly.	2003-01-21
1273533:US	52850806	RDP40TU22I4M0	0380789183	239505648	Darwin's Blade: A Novel of Suspense	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Follow up to The Crook Factory is fun	I guess some people don't get it if you write something that is out of the genre you started in. Dan Simmons started as a horror writer, and most of the negative reviews here seem to think he should have stayed a horror novelist, because that's what they like. Instead, he graduated or moved on or whatever. The Crook Factory was a wonderful WW2 spy novel; Darwin's Blade is an interesting adventure/mystery involving an accident investigator who's something of a grown-up child prodigy. Dr. Darwin Minor has a PhD. in physics, and is a former Marine sniper who plays chess with multiple players at the same time and reads tons of books. When some Russian mafia hit men try to kill him (resulting in a very suspenseful car chase and shootout) Darwin and his friends begin to try and unravel which of the accident investigations he's been working on provoked their attack. Soon, things mushroom into a larger battle against insurance fraud.<br />The accidents in the book, or many of them, are cribbed from the Darwin awards and similar places. I find this sort of thing fun, because I don't remember the anecdotes that well, and I enjoy rereading them. If you're likely to remember stuff, then you might not like this part of the book. Oh, the reviewer who doubted that the opening sequence could happen, with the kid with the JATO units on his El Camino? It really did happen, several years ago, out in the desert. <br />Sure, the plot's a bit much, and so are the characters, quoting Roman and Greek philosophers with one another, then discussing firearms. And the Barrett .50 is legal in the states, no reason for Darwin to go borrow one from the Marines. Some of the high explosive ammo, though, isn't. <br />Anyway, I enjoyed this novel thoroughly, and as long as he stays with suspense novels I'll keep reading him.	2003-01-09
1277098:US	52850806	R26OPONID4LCI6	0743435710	616051317	On Basilisk Station (Honor Harrington)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Ghost of Hornblower	I would like to start this review by stating that I loathe science fiction. To me, it encompasses all that's lazy and annoying about fiction: weak characters, lame plots, and whenever the protagonist is cornered, well the author can conjure some gizmo to get him out of trouble, something you've never seen before, though of course the characters act as if it's completely reasonable and normal. I also don't like pastiches much. There's a science fiction/fantasy series that's pretty directly a rip-off of Nero Wolfe, for instance, and for my money readers should stick with the original.<br />All of that leads up to David Weber's Honor Harrington series having a very good reputation. It's obvious that these books are a concious pastiche of the Horatio Hornblower series (the first book is dedicated to Hornblower author C.S.Forester) but for some reason I didn't mind. Instead, I found myself staying up to finish the story.<br />Honor Harrington has been given her second command. It's an antique light cruiser, rearmed with experimental weaponry that leaves it conventionally vulnerable, but potentially lethal if it can surprise the enemy. Harrington is first to maneuver the ship in exercises, and in those she contrives to upset or humiliate just about everyone. The result of that is being sent into virtual exile at Basilisk Station, where her senior officer immediately decamps, leaving her in charge. This is only the start of her problems: the crew is unhappy with her because they think she caused the exile, the planet she's guarding has a band of fanatic drug addicts on it, one of the oldest merchant clans is mad at her for thwarting their efforts to smuggle illegal furs, and of course a neighboring space empire covets Basilisk station, and its nearby wormhole (very important for interplanetary commerce). Honor takes each challenge in stride, and expects no less from her crew.<br />There are cute touches to the story. Honor is from a planet where many of the natives bond empathically with six-legged cats called treecats, and Honor's pet is named Nimitz (presumably after the U.S. WWII admiral). One of her crewmen is named Sam Houston Webster. Apparently, the history of Earth isn't completely lost, as is the case in some Sci Fi books.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book, and would recommend it to others. I'm going to go looking for the next one in the series soon.	2003-01-07
1280998:US	52850806	R25W7WKFI0NVR4	0380821117	409576866	The Bear Pit: A Scobie Malone Mystery	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Political assasination in Australia leads to mystery	Jon Cleary is one of the most prolific mystery novelists in the world, and it wouldn't be a surprise to find you've never heard of him. He's probably best known in the States for having written the adventure novel High Road to China, which was made into a Tom Selleck movie. In his native Australia, though, he's best known for a long series of police procedurals featuring Scobie Malone, a Sydney homicide inspector. According to the by the same author section of the front of this book, this is the 17th Scobie Malone mystery, and they're all good, and suspenseful. This one is especially intriguing and enigmatic.<br />Aussie politics are apparently somewhat dirty, but down under there are lines you don't cross, and political assasination is one of them. When a major Australian politician is gunned down eight months before the Olympics visit Sydney, everyone in politics is a suspect, and there are opportunities galore. Things are complicated for Malone by the involvement of two of his daughters, and his wife, in the Olympic preparations or the coverage of the assassination. Only his son is unentangled. When Scobie and his partner Russ Clements unravel things and begin to zero in on the shooter, this only intensifies the mystery, because no one is clear who hired him.<br />I enjoy Jon Cleary a great deal. The one thing that may be jarring is his habit of jumping to different points of view, which some may find jarring. I don't, personally, and I enjoy it. I would highly recommend this book.	2003-01-04
1285552:US	52850806	R3FLTS2L009YVV	0440224713	190979319	Total Recall (V. I. Warshawski)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Paretsky's Holocaust novel is interesting	Sara Paretsky has something in common with Dick Francis. Every one of Francis' novels is about horse racing, and something else. The other topic is something esoteric (photography, flying planes, meteorology) and the author and his wife research the second topic so that the book is interesting. Paretsky does the same thing, only with issues. One book was about the Catholic church, another about hospitals. This current one is about the Holocaust, and the ensuing lawsuits against various business entities that profited from either the Holocaust or slavery and other civil rights abuses. Paretsky's main character, female private eye V.I.Warshawski is hired to investigate the status of an insurance policy that should be paid out now, but apparently was cashed in a decade ago. The insurance company claims no knowledge of the policy's end, and are refusing to pay when the policyholder dies. <br />Meanwhile, Warshawski is caught up in another mystery, as an individual claiming to be a holocaust survivor shows up in Chicago. He's been to a recovered memory specialist who hypnotizes her subjects, and then gets them to remember things that happened when they were very young. Paul Radbucka remembers that he was abused, and that his father was a Nazi. He also remembers his name (he grew up with a different one) and other things that make him believe he might be related to a small group of people, one of whom is Warshawski's best friend, Dr. Lotte Herschel. We've known from previous books that Lotte was a holocaust survivor herself, but no details are ever forthcoming, because she believes in putting the past behind her. Now it's come back to haunt her, and all she wants to do is run and hide. It's up to V.I. to figure out what's going on and make sense of things.<br />I enjoyed this book more than I have some of Paretsky's other novels. Occasionally she gets preachy about her ideas on a particular issue, and whether I disagree with her ...or don't really care...it's annoying tospend your afternoon reading a detective novel and getting preached to. Total Recall, however, is a good book, and it doesn't seem preachy because the author doesn't seem to have much of an axe to grind. Anyway the plot is fascinating, and has at least one twist that I didn't see coming, and I enjoyed the book thoroughly.	2003-01-01
1302128:US	52850806	RRI646X1YTHFA	0671035460	682610760	Pale Horse Coming	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Earl Swagger returns	Stephen Hunter made a name for himself the last decade or so with the Swagger novels. Three involve Bob Lee Swagger, a Marine sniper in Viet Nam who just wants to retire peacefully to his native Arkansas. Pale Horse Coming is the second involving Earl Swagger, Bob Lee's father, a Marine Medal of Honor winner from the Pacific War who has returned to Arkansas to be a State Trooper. In this installment, an old family friend, Sam Vincent, gets himself into more trouble than you'd think a simple country lawyer could, and winds up a prisoner in Thebes, Mississippi, at a prison for Blacks that is so horrific it even has the same sign over the entrance as Auschwitz. Earl breaks Sam out of the prison, but is himself captured in the process. We then follow Earl through the horror of this place in all of its manifestations. Eventually, Earl breaks out, recruits a group of gunmen, and returns to kill the guards and destroy the prison.<br />The beginning of the book is paced reasonably well, but you know something more is going to happen, so you are anticipating what's to come. Earl's incarceration in the prison was interminable for me after a while: I think this is the weak point of the book. Once he escapes, the recruiting of the gunmen, and their return to Thebes, are interesting, with the proviso that suspense isn't an issue here: these guys are so good that the guards and local police don't stand a chance, and are soon running. Only the main bad guy characters provide any challenge at all. I gather that you can sort of recognize some of the gunmen from the last third of the book as pastiches of real individuals: the only one most readers are likely to recognize is a rather obvious Audie Murphy. This is in keeping with Hunter's previous books: Bob Lee Swagger's rival sniper in Viet Nam in Point of Impact is based on a real individual.<br />Given all of that, this is still a fun book. The plot moves right along, and the author has a good time with his characters. You can tellhe's enjoying this. There's a whole sequence at the beginning with the Mississippi police deciding that a lawyer from Blue Eye Arkansas is probably sophisticated and a Yankee, and that drew several chuckles from me. I enjoyed this book a great deal, and would recommend it.	2002-12-17
1302347:US	52850806	R2IIYD60X3TVII	0684810271	634463914	The Conquerors: Roosevelt, Truman and the Destruction of Hitler's Germany, 1941-1945	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Beschloss does WW2	Occasionally, you buy a book with the impression that it's one thing, and it turns out to be another. Sometimes this is a good thing, sometimes it isn't. In the case of The Conquerors, it's generally a good thing, but I think the publisher and author could have been a bit more forthcoming with the title and cover of this book.<br />The Conquerors: Roosevelt, Truman and the Destruction of Hitler's Germany 1941-1945, isn't really about Roosevelt or Truman, mostly. Truman appears for the first time halfway through the book, and then only in passing. Only about the last quarter of the book is devoted to him. Roosevelt isn't that prominent in the first part of the book either. Instead, the book turns out to mostly be about Henry Morgenthau, Roosevelt's Jewish Secretary of the Treasury. Morgenthau, of course, was the one who espoused the plan that would have \\"pastoralized\\" Germany, dismantling the country's industry and replacing it with agriculture, at the war's end. The theory was that without heavy industry, Germany would be prevented from invading neighboring nations. There was also a component to the plan to split the country into it's component parts, the idea being that they would be less inclined to attack than a united Germany. Morgenthau's genesis of this idea, and its progress through the government over several years, is the backbone of the book. It's very interesting, don't get me wrong. I guess the problem is that Beschloss couldn't be seen doing a book on something so minor as the Morgenthau plan. I don't know.<br />The book does contain a great deal of new and interesting information, especially on Roosevelt's interactions with various staffers, advisers, and cabinet meetings, on the situation with the Jews in Europe. Roosevelt comes off rather callous, trying to gauge the effect of a mass of Jewish refugees on the electorate rather than worrying about what the right thing to do is. Truman, once he enters the picture, turns out to have, in private, used anti-Jewish epithets strong enough Beschloss won't repeat them.<br />The author does a wonderful job with the characters involved. Besides Morgenthau and the two presidents, we get sketches of Cordell Hull, Henry Stimson, and several other leaders of the World War II era. It's all well-done, if brief, as one reviewer noted.<br />I would recommend this book, but only to people interest in the diplomatic side of World War II, and the Holocaust.	2002-12-17
1320084:US	52850806	R2TYYB6TBJXCR9	0805062882	773936746	An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943 (The Liberation Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	5	100	105	N	N	An Excellent account of the War in North Africa	Rick Atkinson has been writing military history for about a decade now. He started with books on West Point (which covered Viet Nam rather thoroughly) and the Gulf War, and now he's turned his sights on World War II. He definitely has a modern appraisal of war: the one previous reviewer who complains about Atkinson not recounting any acts of \\"selfless heroism\\" by U.S. troops is basically correct. The difference is in focus, though, not that Atkinson doesn't want to portray American soldiers as brave. He doesn't recount any instances of selfless heroism on the part of Germans, Italians, or British soldiers either. To Atkinson, war is a nasty, merciless, vicious, bloody mess, where mistakes cost lives, and almost everyone makes these mistakes, at least starting out.<br />For one thing, while the book does concentrate a good deal on the front-line soldiers and their ordeals, it spends more time concentrating on the command structure of the U.S. Army, and its compatriots and opponents. While he doesn't name *every* regimental commander, he sure names a lot of them, and the division commanders in the American army at least are described in some detail. Theodore Roosevelt, Jr., son of the first president Roosevelt and cousin of the second one, gets a wonderful portrait that makes you sympathize with him, and almost gives you the feeling you know him, though he died in 1944. The author's particular favorite among the generals (he's said this in an interview) is Terry de la Mesa Allen, the commander of the 1st Infantry Division (and Gen. Roosevelt's boss), but even he isn't spared when he makes an unwise attack and loses several hundred casualties.<br />There are things the book doesn't cover, that's true. It makes almost no mention of the technical difficulties American troops had when first confronting the Axis armies, and almost no mention of the inferiority of early equipment like the Stuart tank or early tank destroyers. When later equipment arrives (the M-10 Wolverinefor instance) you only know it when the American army has some destroyed. Atkinson, however, is much more interested in the people, and especially the leaders, than he is in the gizmos.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It's not that long (less than 600 pages of text) and the narrative flows wonderfully. There are numerous anecdotes that are priceless: Italian soldiers surrendering carrying dirty pictures in their pockets along with the address of a cousin who lives in Detroit or Brooklyn, Patton complaining at Casablanca that the president's Secret Service agents all smelled of liquor, Ernest Harmon (the second commander of the 1st Armored Division in the campaign) is described as a cobra without the snake charmer. The narrative flow is wonderful, the maps illustrate the action well. The only quibble I did have was wondering which actions involving the British Army he was choosing to include, or exclude. Never could tell what his criteria was. That aside, and the note about the author not wanting to emphasize heroism, this is an extraordinary and compelling book, perhaps the best on World War II in a decade, perhaps even longer.	2002-12-02
1320419:US	52850806	R21PMKYVGT5WLP	0380804697	432838089	Paradise Lost (Joanna Brady Mysteries, Book 9)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Joanna Brady investigates another murder	This series has been going on for a long time now. I first read a J.A.Jance novel when she had only a few J.P.Beaumont novels. No one even knew that she was female, because the books had been released as paperback originals, without author photos in the back of the books. I've been following her ever since.<br />Jance is a serviceable, if not brilliant author. Her writing style is pretty good, though her ear for dialog is only so-so. Where she's strongest is characters and plots. This book is no exception. The main character, Joanna Brady, is the housewife-turned-sherriff who works to run her department and solve crimes.<br />In this installment, Joanna's daughter and a classmate sneak off from a camp-out to smoke a cigarette and find a dead body. The victim is a middle-aged former spinster who's lost her fortune to a fortune-hunting husband, who's now apparently lured her to her death, or at least that's what everyone thinks. Joanna works her way through the mystery, interviewing witnesses and suspects, and listening to reports from detectives and so forth who do more of the same.<br />This is not the strongest of the Brady books. For one thing, the series was better when she was a younger sherriff, and the men in the department were somewhat suspicious of her. She has to prove herself. Now she's done that, and so things are somewhat more tepid. Instead, she has ups and downs with a new husband, a daughter who's growing up, and so forth. They don't add to the story as much as they might.<br />That being said, this is still a good book, and a worthy addition to the series. The plot's not entirely predictable, and the story takes some twists and turns that are fun, to say the least.	2002-12-02
1320717:US	52850806	R1XWVC8YY8OHO2	0670030155	811076945	Sherlock Holmes and the Secret Alliance	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Millett's latest Sherlock in Minneapolis is only OK	Larry Millett is a columnist for a newspaper in the twin cities. He apparently is also a Sherlock Holmes fan. Those two things seem to have combined to convince him to write these Sherlock Holmes in Minneapolis books, which are very fun. The first two were very good, but the author has introduced an American counterpart, after a fashion, for Sherlock. This is Shadwell Rafferty, a saloon keeper and veteran of the Civil War who has more street smarts than Holmes, if not quite the education and deliberation. Holmes, in Millett's hands anyway, admires Rafferty's rough detective skills.<br />In the latest installment, Rafferty is hired by an old lady friend and competitor who owns a saloon. One of her bartenders has moved on to union agitating, and gotten himself killed. The original verdict is that he tried to rape a woman, and was lynched by a mob, but that theory soon dissipates, and is replaced by the idea that an anti-union conspiracy might be responsible. The plot takes many twists and turns before the crime is solved.<br />One problem is that, given the title, you would expect Holmes to be more involved in the plot. Instead Sherlock and Dr. Watson are trapped in New York City, investigating some sort of controversy involving the Astor brothers. Holmes and Watson stew about this for half the book, without the reader knowing what they are upset about (it's never explained) before they terminate their business and make their way to Minnesota. For the first half of the book, Rafferty does all of the investigating.<br />Once they arrive in Minnesota, Holmes and Watson find themselves involved in various conspiracies and scandals, involving a shady mayor and one of the most famous real life detectives of the 19th century. This part of the book is the most entertaining, to be frank.<br />I enjoyed the book a great deal, especially the author's period detail dealing with various parts of the twin cities and their lore, and especially the buildings therein. Unfortunately,Shadwell Rafferty isn't Sherlock Holmes.	2002-12-02
1335847:US	52850806	R1DV4Y2GWUSYU7	0375413227	723539103	Pain Management: A Burke Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Burke returns, in Oregon	Andrew Vachss has to be an interesting individual. You get the idea that Burke, the main character in his novels, is a somewhat nastier version of himself. Burke is a shadowy figure, with only one name (only one was given when he was an orphan) and a mysterious, cloudy, bitter view of the world. He works around the edges of things, making money on the black market, specializing in being untraceable and invisible, or almost. He is almost completely uninterested in the fate of people he doesn't know, and for the most part he's pretty cold. He has a real hatred for criminals who exploit children.<br />In this outing, he's gone to ground in Portland Oregon. This is a departure for Vachss, who's set almost all of his books in New York City. He bounces around town, establishing a \\"rep\\" so that someone can hire him to do something. Eventually a troubled father contacts him, looking for his daughter. Burke agrees to look, and does so with his usual disregard for rules, animosity towards authority figures, and dark, mysterious methods. When he finds the girl, the answers are not at all what you were expecting, satisfying though they are. There's a whole interlude where Burke helps a woman who steals drugs for the chronically ill, and it's from this side-plot that the book gets its title.<br />I liked the story, about as much as I usually do with Vachss. Everything's very dark (I don't think I could read two of these in a row without contemplating suicide) and murky, and the structure of the book is strange, too. For those who aren't familiar, Vachss has veered between numbering his chapters and not bothering. They're anywhere between a couple of lines and a page or two of text, very short, very choppy. The author seems to just only write part of the story, several lines of dialog, and expect the reader to fill in the rest.<br />Given that, this is a good book.	2002-11-18
1339487:US	52850806	R2BTXIIXNNY57P	0688143113	115958861	Winter Chill: A Scobie Malone Mystery	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Australian Mystery intrigues	Jon Cleary has been writing books for centuries, seemingly, and this book (published in the early 90s) lists 41 previous books. He's probably best known in the states for having written High Road to China, which was made into a Tom Selleck movie. In Australia, he's much better known (so I'm told) and has a large following. He writes suspense, some military novels, and a long and prolific series of detective novels with a main character who's Sydney's chief homicide inspector. This book, Winter Chill, is one of those books, and Scobie Malone, the main character, has a real plateful in this book.<br />First, he's got a convention of a thousand American lawyers in town, and the president of the organization they all belong to gets murdered in the night, bizarrely placed in a monorail that mindlessly runs around the part repeatedly. As soon as they begin to sort out the first killing, Sydney's finest are confronted by a second one, apparently connected but they can't tell how. And on top of that, Malone has personal problems at home that distract him even further.<br />Cleary is a very good writer. The stories he does are intelligent, and there are usually characters in them who are interesting, and complex. His style of writing is a bit strange: he follows not only Malone, but some of the other characters, and bounces back and forth between them at will. This gives you insight into what they are thinking, but some readers may find it a bit disconcerting.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book, and will now look for others.	2002-11-15
1339759:US	52850806	R1273F0CT9B2UQ	0440224071	64914490	Los Alamos	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Murder mystery is more than it seems	We start out with a simple murder. A man's been killed, and the circumstances seem to imply a homosexual liason gone wrong. The problem is that the victim is a security officer at the Los Alamos Atomic Weapons Facility, so someone must investigate thoroughly to make sure nothing's compromised. A peacetime newspaperman improbably turned detective shows up to investigate, and thus begins Joseph Kanon's Los Alamos.<br />Moving from the desert to diners in New York City, the book has an easy sort of grace to it. The characters are fluent, and believeable, and the plot is fast enough to be interesting. Our hero gets a girl, the bad guys are interesting, it's all worthwhile, far as I was concerned. There are also interesting supporting characters, including General Leslie Groves, J. Robert Oppenheimer, and a bunch of scientists. This makes for a very entertaining book.	2002-11-15
1341408:US	52850806	R315TB6VIE4CU1	0425187063	501345308	Death in Paradise (A Jesse Stone Novel)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Jesse Stone returns	Robert B. Parker has been writing for a long time, and there are critics everywhere. As he's progressed, his writing has gotten more and more spare, and careful. It's to the point now where he almost doesn't write the book, and you almost don't read it. It sort of flows past you, and only the characters and the action are important. Interesting phenomenon.<br />This time around, Jesse Stone's weekly softball game is interrupted by the discovery of a dead girl floating in a nearby lake. Stone investigates, and eventually discovers who she is and why she's there. Meanwhile there's a domestic disturbance call (a wife being beaten) that slowly escalates to something worse. The problem with the book, as much as there is one, is that neither of these plots is that interesting, so you have to pay attention to the characters. They at least are diverting, and I did have some fun watching Jesse do his thing. Neither bad guy is that smart, though. I suppose much of the time that's the way it is in real life.<br />All in all, a decent entry into Parker's library, but not his best book.	2002-11-13
1342380:US	52850806	R118H62WVHO21G	0060009225	795309718	Call Each River Jordan (Abel Jones Mysteries)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Owen Parry gets even better as he goes along	In the third Abel Jones mystery, the Major has been summoned to Tennessee to General Grant's army, to solve a series of mass murders where the victims are all runaway slaves. When he arrives, he stumbles into the middle of the battle of Shiloh, and makes himself useful scraping up a group of men to fight. When the battle's over, he gets to investigating, and soon is among the Confederates, under a flag of truce, searching for the killer.<br />Parry does three things well with this series of mysteries. First, the plots themselves are worthy mysteries. Though not of the Agatha Christie variety, they are believable, and complex enough that you must pay attention. Second, the author uses the historical setting and the main character to take you on a guided tour of parts of our Civil War. In this installment, we meet both U.S. Grant, and William T. Sherman, and later P.G.T. Beauregard. The portraits of all three are wonderful (the author doesn't think much of Beauregard, who comes off a preening idiot; from what I've read, he's not far wide of the mark) and not just hung onto the story: all three have roles to play in the story. And third, the whole of the book is told in vernacular, so that it reads as if this Welsh veteran of the Sepoy Rebellion were actually talking to you. This is a remarkable accomplishment, and well worth the effort by itself.<br />I can't emphasize how good this book is. Parry seems to be getting better, if that's possible. It's as if George MacDonald Fraser wrote a Civil War mystery story with a Welsh protagonist as its narrator. It's that good.	2002-11-12
1346564:US	52850806	R1YL49X7CCRVYV	0345434498	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I still like Elvis Cole better, but...	With L.A.Requiem, Robert Crais apparently came to a sort of stopping point in his series about Elvis Cole, L.A. Private Eye. Last year he did Demolition Angel, a darker, more moody novel than he'd previously produced, about a bomb disposal expert who had something go wrong one day and now carries the scars of that. This book is the same sort of thing: Jeff Talley was a hostage negotiator for the LAPD SWAT unit, and he wasn't perfect one day, with the result that a young boy died. He soon after left the department, and is essentially hiding in the Santa Clarita Valley to the north of L.A., working as the chief of Police in a town with a force of about 15 people who mostly hand out parking tickets. Then disaster strikes.<br />A trio of small-time criminals rob a convenience store, kill the owner, and when fleeing, wind up in a house with a man and his two kids inside. Of course, Walter Smith, the homeowner, isn't what he seems, and soon everything begins to spin out of everyone's control. There's another kidnapping, several wheels-within-wheels twists, and an interesting cast of characters.<br />I like Robert Crais, and I enjoyed the book greatly. I do still wish Elvis Cole would return, and I gather he has, but this was good in the meanwhile.	2002-11-09
1347292:US	52850806	R2XJTGZV7G17P5	0446605484	319187092	Roses Are Red (Alex Cross)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Cross is back	...Roses are Red starts with a series of bank robberies. The crimes are especially brutal, and strange, in that precision is demanded at such a level that it's almost impossible to achieve. When it doesn't occur, the criminals kill selected people involved, including a three-year-old boy. Even more ruthless is the apparent boss of the killings, a nefarious person who calls himself the mastermind. He kills his minions when they don't perform up to his rigorous standards. This makes things complicated for Alex Cross and his new FBI partner, a beautiful (of course) woman. Cross and company chase the bad guy through several plot twists, and (I hope I'm not giving anything away) don't catch him at the end. The last page tells you, strangely, who the killer is, without letting you know why he's doing things, and frankly I thought it was a bit of a cop out. You don't figure anything out or anything, he just tells you. Anyway, from the excerpt from the next book that's in the back of this one, the author takes things further, with Cross still chasing the bad guy in the next book. Hope he catches him.	2002-11-08
1347635:US	52850806	R1LIOI944H4RIL	0684196069	311371271	Dead Center: A Nikki Trakos Mystery	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Routine NYPD mystery not distinguished by anything	This is an OK book that doesn't have anything going for it, really. It's a routine plot, routine characters, routine action, a routine mystery. All of these things have been done elsewhere, better, and more creatively. It's really a shame, I suppose, because the writing is pretty good, and I'm sure she put some work into it.<br />Nikki Trakos is a detective in the NYPD. Naturally, the older cops are sexist, and don't accept her. Naturally, she's pushing herself to compete with everyone else. Naturally, she gets assigned the hot potato murder of a local good boy politician. Naturally the pol has feet of clay. Naturally there is a list of suspects. Just about every aspect of this book has been done somewhere else, and better. Nothing's completely original, and nothing feels like it's anything more than by-the-numbers. Even the solution was semi-predicatble. I wouldn't recommend this book, unless you just have to read books about the NYPD or something. There are other mysteries around.	2002-11-08
1348058:US	52850806	ROB0KP4FXZ1M5	1885941560	230099908	Kisses of Death: A Nathan Heller Casebook	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Second Heller short story collection a winner	I've been a fan of Max Allan Collins' Nate Heller stories for years now, well more than a decade. Some time ago, in addition to the novels, Collins released Dying in the Postwar World, which was billed as a casebook. The current volume is a second one, and they're basically short story collections, though both times the author wrote a novella to round out the volumes. In this book, the novella provides the title.<br />If you've read my reviews of other Heller books, you know the drill. His big drawback is that you must accept this detective being involved in basically every significant crime in the 30s 40s and 50s, with the possibility that he'll carry it further. The last of the stories in this book takes place in the early 60s. Given that you can make the suspension of disbelief, this is a very fun series, and the stories are well-written. I especially enjoyed this second casebook, which includes several cases that I thought were interesting, and was especially well-written.<br />Heller gets involved in cases with Marilyn Monroe, Thelma Todd, Bill Veeck, Mickey Cohen, and so forth. Frankly, the characters he pulls out of obscurity are endlessly interesting, and I thoroughly enjoyed this collection, so I won't ruin it for you by telling you anything more about what's in the book. Suffice to say, the author has a solution for every mystery in the book, and they're all plausible, as far as I can see.<br />To reiterate, this is a wonderful book. I enjoyed it thoroughly.	2002-11-07
1348234:US	52850806	R3LWB7T807MUT2	0525942254	654656946	Damned In Paradise: A Nathan Heller Novel (Nathan Heller Novels)	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	Nate Heller Returns	Nate Heller novels are always fun. When I reviewed the last one I had read, I made the observation that you must accept one big whopper: that a single detective could do everything he does, in all of the various historical cases the author gets him involved in. If you can live with that, then you'll thoroughly enjoy the books, as I do.<br />In this installment, it's early in Heller's career, and he's still a Chicago cop. He's finishing up the first part of his involvement in the Lindberg kidnapping when Clarence Darrow calls. Heller knows Darrow because Heller's father owned a radical bookstore some years before, and Darrow was a customer. Darrow wants an investigator to accompany him to Hawaii, and help him with the defense of a quartet of accused murderers, who apparently killed a man accused of rape. The accused include the rape victim's husband and her mother. The kicker is that all of the accused rapists were Asian or Polynesian of some sort, and the rape victim, and all of those accused in the killing, are white. Racial tensions are running high when Heller and Darrow arrive in the islands.<br />The story is typical Collins, and a rather good example of what he does. The mystery is well-presented, and interesting. The author knows the characters, and the issues, involved in the real-life crime that he portrays. Most people think that Hawaiians are easy-going types, and many are, but there is also a considerable amount of anger about past discrimination on the island, percieved or real. This book does a good job of portraying that.<br />The other thing Collins always does is cameo appearances by celebrities. In addition to Darrow, and the defendants in the case, Heller runs into a young Buster Crabbe and a much older Chang Apana. The latter was a well-known Honolulu police detective who was the basis for Earl Der Biggers' character Charlie Chan. Amusingly, Detective Apana repeats some of Charlie Chan's quotes from the movies, with tongue firmly in cheek.<br />Ireally enjoyed this book. I think most others who are interested in history, and in detective novels, would enjoy it also.	2002-11-07
1348313:US	52850806	RUH83QXV0Q7YC	1885941560	230099908	Kisses of Death: A Nathan Heller Casebook	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Second Heller short story collection a winner	I've been a fan of Max Allan Collins' Nate Heller stories for years now, well more than a decade. Some time ago, in addition to the novels, Collins released Dying in the Postwar World, which was billed as a casebook. The current volume is a second one, and they're basically short story collections, though both times the author wrote a novella to round out the volumes. In this book, the novella provides the title.<br />If you've read my reviews of other Heller books, you know the drill. His big drawback is that you must accept this detective being involved in basically every significant crime in the 30s 40s and 50s, with the possibility that he'll carry it further. The last of the stories in this book takes place in the early 60s. Given that you can make the suspension of disbelief, this is a very fun series, and the stories are well-written. I especially enjoyed this second casebook, which includes several cases that I thought were interesting, and was especially well-written.<br />Heller gets involved in cases with Marilyn Monroe, Thelma Todd, Bill Veeck, Mickey Cohen, and so forth. Frankly, the characters he pulls out of obscurity are endlessly interesting, and I thoroughly enjoyed this collection, so I won't ruin it for you by telling you anything more about what's in the book. Suffice to say, the author has a solution for every mystery in the book, and they're all plausible, as far as I can see.<br />To reiterate, this is a wonderful book. I enjoyed it thoroughly.	2002-11-07
1348479:US	52850806	R1681FJT1GMTCT	0914293524	401928876	Tomart's Price Guide to Hot Wheels Collectibles	Books	4	11	14	N	Y	Hot Wheels guide probably indispensable	I have an interest in older Hot Wheels, and was looking for values and prices. This is the only book that differentiates between the various colors of the early cars, and those colors make all the difference in value. As a result this book is almost indispensable. The color guide itself is only so-so, being particularly difficult to match up with some of the brighter colors. There were so many shades that sometimes the guide is only so-so too. But since this is the only book that even bothers to attempt to divide the cars by color, this is the one to get.	2002-11-07
1350417:US	52850806	RNX16OVJ2SFTA	074340615X	825511748	Two O'Clock, Eastern Wartime	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Long and complex historical mystery is a bit murky	I like mysteries. I like spy stories. I like historical novels. I like reading about World War 2. Though I didn't know much about 1940's radio, I enjoyed reading about it too. Funny thing though, given that I like all of this, the sum of it, in the case of Two O'Clock Eastern Wartime, wasn't very much fun for me. I'm not sure why, though I think I can guess parts of it.<br />For one thing, the plot sort of meanders along. The main character starts out in jail in California, but you get flashbacks to his life earlier, working on racetracks tending horses. He escapes from jail, and then he journeys to New Jersey, with a detour to Pennsylvania, where he finds a murdered friend. Once in New Jersey, he gets a job at a radio station, and stays there for the rest of the story, trying to figure out why an old girlfriend of his is acting so strangely. The plot takes long detours itself, into the life and culture of the radio station, and they are interesting, but they distract from the spy/mystery plot, making it almost impenetrable.<br />A further difficulty is names. The main character, Jack Dulaney, decides he can't use his real name at the station, so for most of the book he's Jordan Ten Eyck (he made the name up out of characters in books he's admired). Turns out Holly Carnahan, the girl he's chasing, is known locally as Holly O'Hara. The author refers to Dulaney as Dulaney, or as Jordan, pretty much interchangeably throughout the book, and she's Miss O'Hara long enough that you forget what her real name is.<br />And lastly, for whatever reason, the mystery itself was rather unsatisfying for me. The plot turned out to be less than the sum of it's parts, and so did the book, I'm afraid.	2002-11-05
1350607:US	52850806	R1OO6S6B81C8XN	0914293524	401928876	Tomart's Price Guide to Hot Wheels Collectibles	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Guide for hot wheels flawed but probably indispensable	This book purports to be a guide to all of the hot wheels cars produced for the last thirty plus years. It's very up-to-date, and well written and thought out. It has lists of all of the cars, with the early ones priced by color so you can keep track of which ones are more or less expensive. The colors in the color guide don't look that good to me, and since there are so many shades, I didn't find it that valuable, but the price guides are very good. They aren't completely up to date in and of themselves (how could they be?) but they're as good as they can get, and you can use them to judge how much one color will cost as opposed to another.	2002-11-05
1351208:US	52850806	R3K61S4F92C5J1	034541389X	466482043	Flesh and Blood (Alex Delaware)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Kellerman recovers some of his old form	Jonathan Kellerman is a very popular mystery author, but to my mind the last several books he's done with Alex Delaware haven't been that good. Alright, but nothing spectacular. In this, his latest book, the author redirects him to a simpler plot, keeping the action believable and the clues more convoluted, less confusing. The result, I think, is a better book.<br />Delaware is called by a woman whose daughter he tried to treat a decade ago, when she was a teenager. She'd been bright, but uninterested in the therapy, and so when the child's father cancelled the treatment, he'd only half-heartedly argued. Several years later, Delaware saw the girl again (now over 21) working as a stripper at a bachelor party, and she then visited his office once. Now the mother calls, worried because her daughter has dissappeared, and wanting Alex to try and see if he can find her. He agrees, and finds that another young woman vanished about a year earlier under similar circumstances, which piques his interest. Things kind of logically follow from there.<br />This is a very good book, not Kellerman's best, but still very good, and I would recommend it.	2002-11-05
1354504:US	52850806	R34A1BUO7AIAWE	0141001488	385802779	The Spanish Civil War	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Good solid history a bit tough to read or follow	This is a standard history of the Spanish Civil War by military historian Anthony Beevor. It's deceptively small in size (the type in the book is about the smallest I've ever seen, short of a footnote or something) but full of detail. The author doesn't, however, pull any punches, and he doesn't think much of the communist leadership in the war, so those of a liberal bent who want to read the good vs. bad story of this war should look elsewhere. In the author's mind, the combatants were different flavors of bad, though he seems to sympathize somewhat with the non-communist Republicans, especially the anarchists and the Trotskyists.<br />The author spends a good deal of time going over the background to the war, and a similar amount of time dealing with its aftermath. He also works hard to argue that some of the stories of the war are myths: in his view, the airlift the Luftwaffe provided to Franco's forces to get the Moroccans to Spain has been overestimated. All in all, this was an interesting book, though the author was new to being a writer when it was written (1983) and the prose is a bit wooden, to be truthful. A good effort nonetheless, and a useful alternative to Hugh Thomas' masterful but massive tome on the same subject, which runs to well over a thousand pages in its current edition.	2002-11-02
1364284:US	52850806	R1WMW6VHCBJOZR	0684873842	23038198	Beyond Valor: World War II's Ranger and Airborne Veterans Reveal the Heart of Combat	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Oral History Collection of Elite Soldiers	I often don't enjoy oral histories. They tend to be choppy, and under- or over-edited, and don't read well. They also have a can't-see-the-trees-for-the-forest weakness that's almost inevitable, given the way they are collected. They do tend to be valuable at assessing what affect various things had on front-line troops, and things like that. However, this book got good reviews, so I thought I would read it.<br />The book is divided into chapters, each covering a campaign in which the United States Army airborne or ranger forces participated. There are also a few sections dealing with the 1st Special Service Force, which served in Italy and southern France. The book deals with only these forces, and this is probably my biggest criticism of the book: the elite forces get all of the book's attention. A couple of paratroopers who have told their stories elsewhere recount new anecdotes here. There is one account of the landing in southern France from a member of the 442nd Regimental Combat Team's anti-tank platoon, because they landed in gliders during the invasion. This points up one of the weaknesses of focusing on the \\"elite\\" forces the way the book does: the 442nd wasn't elite, but this anti-tank platoon becomes elite when they land in a glider. I think many would differ from this conclusion.<br />Given that, and the weaknesses that all oral histories have, the book is still very good. There are moments in the accounts when you just want to cry, given what happened in particular situations. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in World War II, especially those interested in combat involving these formations.	2002-10-25
1369850:US	52850806	R3OS3ZSVD0CBMA	0425153045	661347561	The Friends of Pancho Villa	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Pancho Villa comes alive	I've never read a James Carlos Blake novel before. I bought this, hesitantly, off a remainder shelf... Frankly, I'm  amazed it was there. This is a tremendous book, replete with wonderful characters, an interesting plot, and wonderful atmosphere. The author has recreated the time of the Mexican revolution wonderfully, and the main character, and narrator, is someone you'd like to sit and have a conversation with...though not in a dark alley.<br />Rudy Fierro is there, throughout the whole of the Mexican revolution, and Pancho Villa's fight with the various people in power in Mexico City. The various people involved are tremendously depicted, and there's a parade of minor characters, some historical, some not. Both Ambrose Bierce and George Patton, not to mention John Pershing, make appearances. The author does a marvelous job of portraying men for whom it is nothing to shoot several hundred people, and then go have dinner.<br />Frankly, I was surprised by how good this book was. I found another one on the same remainder shelf, and after that I'll be hitting the used bookstore.	2002-10-20
1369927:US	52850806	RJHB7Z3GJQN65	0451206711	471003961	Orchid Blues (Holly Barker)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Orchid Blues not up to Woods usual Standard	I like Stuart Woods. Ever since Chiefs, I've been a fan, and I enjoy especially the little hints he leaves that remind you of previous books of his. Each of his stories builds a bit on previous ones. He started a new character a couple of years ago in Orchid Beach, in which the main character was a retired military police officer, Holly Barker, who has been hired as chief of police of a small town in Florida. Orchid Blues is the second book in that series.<br />In this book, Holly's about to get married, but her fiance gets caught up in a bank robbery, and killed. It soon becomes obvious that this was an unusual robbery, and the killers dissappear. Holly has to contend with various forces who want to catch the robbers also, but don't want her to participate, or have agendas of their own, including the FBI and her own father, who gets involved with the killers.<br />The plot is alright. I don't want to give too much away, but suffice it to say Woods has been down this route before, and much of the plot itself feels like a reworked version of several of his other books. I wasn't terribly upset, but I also wasn't that impressed with the book. It was almost as if he wrote it in his sleep or something. It's probably still a good bet, especially if you haven't read all of his books.	2002-10-20
1371786:US	52850806	R26MSTVZHYD9KF	0807127779	251568987	Jefferson Davis in Blue: The Life of Sherman's Relentless Warrior (History Book Club Selection)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The other Jefferson Davis finally gets his due	This is a biography of an obscure figure from the American Civil War who had a famous name. Jefferson Columbus Davis was no relation to the Confederate president, and stayed loyal to the Union, rising the the rank of brevet Major General. He's probably best known as the culprit in the murder of William Nelson, another Union army general, in 1862. There was, however, more to Jefferson C. Davis than that, as this admirable biography shows.<br />...<br />Jefferson C. Davis was from Indiana. He enlisted in the army young, and participated in the battle of Buena Vista as a private in his Indiana volunteer regiment, distinguishing himself so much that he was considered for an appointment to West Point. When that fell through, Davis was directly enlisted in the regular army as a second lieutenant of artillery, and spent the years between the Mexican war and Fort Sumter studying and learning to be a soldier. He was part of the garrison of Fort Sumter, and this notoriety positioned him for a brigade command of Indiana state troops. He led them through the battle of Pea Ridge, and never looked back, concluding the war in command of the Fourteenth Corps during the March through the Carolinas, and during the battle of Bentonville. After the war, he was Alaska's first military district commander, and briefly fought the Modocs on the California-Oregon border.<br />The authors do a wonderful job of bringing Davis, and his many contradictions, to life. He was a demanding soldier, and a hard taskmaster, but he appears to have generally been a fair and decent person. There is the one incident where he shot Nelson dead, but the authors lay out the course of events, and frankly the whole thing sounds provoked. Nelson was disliked by a lot of people, apparently, to the point that when he was shot, there weren't very many calls for his killer to be brought to justice. The whole thing is laid out in considerable detail. And where Davis emerges as a surprise is in his competence as a soldier. Though his troops were routed at both Stones River and Chickamauga, at Pea Ridge it was Davis who stopped Louis Hebert's attack on the Union left, and at Jonesboro it was Davis who broke the Confederate front. At Bentonville he again held off the main Confederate assault, though with some help. Frankly I was surprised: he turns out to have been a pretty good general, and generally well-liked by the troops, even though he *never* praised anyone for anything, and apparently thought bravery nothing extraordinary. In his defense, he was brave himself.<br />There is one shortcoming in this book. There is a lack of maps to illustrate the text. The authors try to detail battlefield maneuvers from Buena Vista to Bentonville, with no tactical maps at all, and only three general area maps, none of which are particularly helpful. Only one of the maps even deals with the Civil War. This unfortunately makes the text a bit hard to follow at times. Other than that, I would highly recommend this book for the Civil War scholar. It's definitely worth the money.	2002-10-18
1380685:US	52850806	R3QM7KN7BME59F	0304361275	130515796	History of Warfare: The Second World War in the Far East	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Wilmott's history of Pacific war typically unique	Almost twenty years ago, I bought a weighty volume on strategy in the Pacific War titled Empires in the Balance. It was marvelous, a clear, incisive, detailed, opinionated history of the first three months or so of World War II in the Pacific. It was written by H.P.Wilmott, a British historian.<br />After Empires he did a sequel of sorts, The Barrier and the Javelin, a history of the war around the world in the month of June 1944, and a work on British strategic planning in the Pacific during the war. Lastly, he's written this short history of WWII in the Pacific, replete with illustrations, elaborate color maps, and graphs and pie charts. Cassell (the publisher) apparently intends to do a number of these in its History of Warfare series. Hopefully they will all be this good.<br />Wilmott's trademark is looking at the same situation or set of circumstances as everyone else, and coming up with a completely different conclusion from the common wisdom. Here he advances his point (made in his earlier books) that Japanese planning before WWII was replete with wishful thinking and just plain ignorance. He emphasizes repeatedly that they didn't really start the war with a strategy, instead relying on a script that called on the American Navy to do certain things a certain way, and not be too bright about it. When the U.S. Navy didn't cooperate, things began to deteriorate. His larger point, that Japan really had no chance of winning the war in the Pacific unless a miracle happened, has also been made before, but it's worth repeating. Lastly, his point about the merchant shipping situation (basically that Japan lost the war as much because of the U.S. Navy's submarine effort as because of the battles they lost) is also eloquently stated, and accompanied by several charts for those who can't follow the statistics in the text.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book and would heartily recommend it. Strangely, there are a few outright typos, a seemingly growing bane of publishers.I don't think they detract from the overall value of the book though.	2002-10-11
1383742:US	52850806	R35WBOBG40WPEM	0060088613	73699063	Fire	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Fire is more of a fizzle	Sebastian Junger wrote The Perfect Storm, which was one of the best books of the '90s. He's tried to follow that up with Fire, but unfortunately this book falls way short of the previous one, for several reasons.<br />For one thing, Fire is only partially about an actual fire. What the author has apparently done is taken articles he wrote at various times, and just laid them into this book. The first two articles are about fire-fighting in the early nineties, and most (but not all) of the rest of the articles cover war around the world, mostly in the Balkans. The last two deal with Afghanistan. The articles on firefighting are interesting, but Junger's ablities as a war correspondent are only marginal. There are numerous references to machineguns when he presumably means assault rifles, for instance, and his understanding of what's happening appears to be only so-so. The articles are arranged strictly in chronological order, so that whatever action holds them together (if there are two on the same region) is usually lost. The best of the pieces, to my mind, covers the silly partition of the isle of Cyprus between Turks and Greeks, co-written with another journalist.<br />I'm sure Junger has another good book in him, maybe more. This isn't it---this isn't a book really, it's just a collection of articles he wrote.	2002-10-08
1393996:US	52850806	R3BQDLOZ7E4UF2	0380716542	477770651	Birds of Prey (J. P. Beaumont Mysteries, No. 15) (J. P. Beaumont Novel)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Beaumont Returns after a hiatus	Some years ago, a salesperson at a local mystery bookstore recommended a pair of books by an author I had never heard of named J.A. Jance. They were detective novels with a Seattle setting, and they were good police procedural stories. The first one had quite a dramatic ending, and the later ones were very good. I especially enjoyed the laid-back matter of fact writing style of the guy who wrote the books. They are told in the first person, and you can almost hear J.P. \\"Beau\\" Beaumont telling you his story. Imagine my surprise five or six years later when the author turned out to be a woman.<br />Jance has turned into a writing machine. She started out doing paperback originals (the publishing version of a movie going straight to video) and has been on the NYT bestseller list in hardback several times, recently. This is the fifteenth in the Beaumont series, and she also has 8 books in a second series, and two stand-alone suspense novels. All throughout, the books are basically even. She has gotten better, but the progress has been very slow. Mind you she started out very good, so it's not like there was a large area for improvement here. And there are the usual slight fluctuations where a book is better or worse than the previous one.<br />The last Beaumont book ended with a tragedy that he wasn't able to prevent, and so this one starts with him having retired from the Seattle P.D. after many years, taking a cruise with his grandmother and her new husband, chaperoning them, so to speak. Naturally nefarious people are on board the ship, and naturally when they try something evil, Beau has to step in and try and stop them. Jance is very good at putting red herrings in, making things seem something that they aren't, etc. The plot does get a little slow, and I wouldn't say this is her best book, but she's good enough that her best is still pretty good.	2002-09-29
1397144:US	52850806	RTOHE9O0CWP0T	0385333226	105403950	Elmore Leonard's Western Roundup #1: Bounty Hunters, Forty Lashes Less One, and Gunsights	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Leonard's early books almost equal his latest	Elmore Leonard is an interesting author. He's been around since the '50s (the first book in the collection, The Bounty Hunters, was originally published in 1953) and is still as hip and cool as ever. He's also probably had more of his books turned into movies than any other man alive: at least six by my count, and I'm sure I'm missing some. This book is a collection of three of his earlier westerns, the above mentioned The Bounty Hunters, and Forty Lashes Less One and Gunsights. All three novels are recognisably Leonard: you could almost tell who wrote them without reading the author's name on the cover.<br />The Bounty Hunters has a typical Leonard plot. A cavalry scout and a green US army Lieutenant are sent into Mexico, incognito, to capture a renegade Apache. Complications set in when corrupt Rurales (local Mexican police), a group of angry local villagers, and the title group of bounty hunters (whites who kill Apaches for cash from the Mexican Government) all collide with our two heroes. The one part where this novel fell a bit short for me was in the mild language. In the '50s, Leonard couldn't use profanity or obscenity, and it rings a bit false now.<br />Forty Lashes Less One is a prison break novel. It's only sort of a Western, being set in 1909, but only the appearance of an automobile breaks the landscape of what would otherwise be a Western. Two convicts, one black, the other an American Indian, are thrown together, first to fight, later as allies, by circumstances beyond their control in a brutal prison in the desert Southwest. Various groups are competing for various things, with a guard who peeks at the women prisoners, a prisoner who pretty much runs the place---he thinks, a new prison warden who wants to redeem those under his charge, and various prisoners scheming to escape, of course. It takes a bit to get going, but the payoff is worth the wait.<br />Gunsights is about a range war. It's the typical story: the people on the land don't own it, andthe land owners don't want them to stay. What makes the story interesting is that the author manages to maneuver two good friends into opposite sides of the fight. Things are reminiscent of The Bounty Hunters; one of the friends is a former army scout, the other's a retired cavalry officer. There are various factions with different agendas wandering through the story: the two men kill several people early on, and spend half the book fighting off their relatives later. The story has a fun and workmanlike progress to it, and you almost can see the ending coming.<br />All three of these novels are short, all three are good, all three are worth reading. I would recommend this especially for a long plane ride or a short weekend vacation: great escapist reading.	2002-09-26
1403005:US	52850806	RWR5DRGEAX9BR	0811729915	685595824	The Wilmington Campaign:  Last Rays of Departing Hope	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Excellent history of an obscure Civil War Campaign	The Civil War had many campaigns, and numerous battles. Most of them have been chronicled at one time or another. The battle of Fort Fisher, in North Carolina near Wilmington, was wonderfully written about a decade ago in Confederate Goliath by noted historian Rod Gragg. Gragg's book however, finishes with the end of the battle, and has nothing or next to it to say about the ensuing campaign to capture the city of Wilmington itself. The campaign as a whole is the subject of Chris Fonvielle's book, which has a larger scope than Gragg's excellent work, and is equally skilled.<br />Fonvielle is a southerner, and was a resident of Wilmington at the time the book was written. Since I had just finished another book that was originally published by Savas publishing (Last Chance for Victory) and I had hacked it to pieces here as unreasonably pro-Confederate, I was somewhat apprehensive when I started this book. No worries, Fonvielle is balanced, forthright, and very careful with the issues and participants on both sides. The result is a wonderful depiction of the campaign and battle as they occurred, with a number of wonderful anecdotes. The author also does a masterful job of depicting the strategic context of the campaign and battle, and their impact on the war's last phase.<br />I've read a number of books on the Civil War. This one has excellent maps and illustrations, is well-thought-out and concise, without being either cursory or overly brief, and is well-documented. I would recommend this book to any Civil War buff.	2002-09-20
1403439:US	52850806	R1N0M8TDA351X8	0425164462	638794772	Montenegro	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Literate Adventure is more literature than adventurous	Occasionally, when I read a book, the hype is such that I expect more than I get. This book is billed as a literate spy novel about a British adventurer, young and naive, who gets caught up in the intrigues of the Balkan peninsula during the period just prior to WW1. It turns out to be much less than that, and in a way more. The fact that it doesn't live up to its promise was something of a dissappointment to me, and it was only partly offset by what the book was instead.<br />Auberon Harwell journeys to Montenegro at the behest of the murky Lord Polgrove, to do something intelligence-wise. We're never sure what Harwell is there for, other than his half-make-believe cover story of collecting flowers for his sponsor. He doesn't seem sure what he's doing either, and muddles around aimlessly for half the book before he begins to actually do things that impact the plot in any way. When he finally gets to some action, the author turns what was supposed to be a spy novel into a tragedy involving a mother's love for her son, and the consequences that flow from that. There is finally some adventure towards the end of the book, and the plot does begin to speed up. It was too late for me, however, to enjoy the book. In the last thirty pages, the book takes some strange turns, and frankly it sounded like he got tired of writing.<br />Some of the prose is quite eloquent. The question is whether eloquent prose in service a plot that's much ado about nothing. I, frankly, think that the story's the important thing, unless the prose is truly memorable. For me, the book didn't measure up that way.	2002-09-20
1405482:US	52850806	R1DXUGA1KH2T0U	0836204387	667860921	Calvin & Hobbes Books, Tenth Anniversary Book	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Doesn't everyone love Calvin and Hobbes?	Is there anyone who doesn't love these two screwball characters? The idea behind the original strip (a little boy with a stuffed tiger that only talks to him) is original, at least as far as I know, and remarkably clever. Watterson carried it off for a good long while, until the pressures of writing made things so unfun to him he hung up his pen. I notice that he's stayed retired, so I would assume he took his loot and scooted.<br />This collection contains some of the most outrageous of the cartoons, but it also has a good deal of commentary by Watterson himself. He tells you what basis the characters have in reality, from Calvin's parents to Miss Wormwood and Susie Derkins. He also discusses the various trials and tribulations he went through as a cartoonist producing the strip for a syndicate, and the evils of said syndicates as far as he's concerned. There's a lot that hints at why he quit. He also includes explanations of what Calvin's talking about, or alternatively, what the strip is supposed to be saying. Lastly, he talks about characters he has removed from the strip, or things he did that he didn't think worked. I loved this book, and of course wish he would produce more stuff now that he's retired from the pressures of doing it day to day.	2002-09-18
1413666:US	52850806	R2WCQBDVUNU14K	0061013412	821841049	Orchid Beach (Holly Barker Novels)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Woods does it again	Ever since Chiefs, Stuart Woods has had a loyal following. I'm one of the followers, after a fashion. There's no question he's not the second coming of Chandler, or something, or that his characters are very memorable, or anything. He does, however, create relatively interesting plots, and the characters are interesting also, though everything can be a bit predictable. If you've ever read Nelson DeMille, and not read Woods, I consider the two to be virtually interchangeable, except that Woods' books tend to be shorter, and DeMille's tend to be more international and espionage/military oriented.<br />In this book Woods introduces a new character. She's Holly Barker, a just-retired Army MP officer who becomes Assistant Chief of a small-town police department, only to have the chief get shot just as she gets into town, and then to have various odd things begin to happen. There's a mysterious Lieutenant who wants her job, small town politics, a dog who gets beer from the refrigerator, a drifter who is a good suspect for the chief's shooting except for he doesn't act like it, and another murder to solve. Barker has to deal with all of this, an adventurous father, his old army buddies, an amorous defense attorney, a bad cop who's been in jail, and a raft of FBI agents. All very fun, and all told in standard Woods style, which means it reads fast. If you're going to Chicago or NYC or LA on the plane tomorrow, this is probably a good bet.	2002-09-10
1416337:US	52850806	RCPUFSLU1FK12	0451452615	511955488	Bored of the Rings: A Parody of J. R. R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Parody of Tolkien worked for me better than the real thing	I'll confess. I never really like The Lord of the Rings that much. I read the books (and The Hobbit) about 10 years ago, and was genuinely unimpressed. I gather Tolkien intended for it to be a parable presenting the message that whatever the odds, England had to do what was right and oppose Hitler. This is an interesting point, but the book is too long, and way to pretentious for me.<br />Bored of the Rings is so much better. For one thing, it's nowhere near as long. For another, it's much more fun, doesn't take itself at all seriously, and is basically just one joke after another. I won't ruin any of them, they're too much fun to tell you. I will warn you that as most of the reviewers noted, many of them are cultural references that are very dated, and some of the attitudes are changed (drug abuse was very hip in the late `60's, but isn't any more.<br />Given that, I would still recommend this book, it's way too funny	2002-09-07
1416885:US	52850806	R2O8LSHYCA4EOS	044991240X	698494230	The Gates of November	Books	4	10	10	N	N	History of a Jewish Family in Russia	Im a great fan of Chaim Potok (who passed away recently, in case you didnt hear). Hes a brilliant novelist who was educated to be a rabbi, but never had a congregation. He apparently was approached some time in the 80s to write this story, and finally managed to complete it a few years ago. Its a theme that Potok returned to repeatedly in his fiction: fathers and sons, conflict in families, trying to make things right and do the right thing.<br />In this instance, the author met the second generation of the Slepak family. The first generation was an old Bolshevik who commanded a division of the Red Army in the Far East during the Russian Civil War, and often met Stalin for press briefings in the 30s. By then he spoke 11 languages, 8 of them fluently, and so translated newspapers and magazines for Stalin. He was almost purged in the late thirties, wound up retiring early in the mid 40s, and lived to be an old man. He was also Jewish, though completely assimilated and non-religious. He had a family, including a son who turned out very different from the father.<br />The son became a refusenik in the seventies, trying to leave the country when it became apparent that anti-Semitism reared its ugly head in the period after WW2. He was one of the leaders of the group, and was quite prominent. He and his wife were able, finally, to move to Israel. The father was alive for the early part of the refusenik movement, and was mystified that his son wanted to go to Israel.<br />All in all this is an interesting book. I do think that his prose works better in fiction than it does in non-fiction. That being said, this is still a very good book.	2002-09-07
1427008:US	52850806	R3Q0ZNUSS21HYZ	1400031133	782925714	An Autumn of War: What America Learned from September 11 and the War on Terrorism	Books	4	31	42	N	N	Trenchant and rather opinionated views on the current War	Victor Davis Hanson first came to prominence about 15 or so years ago, when he published a book on Greek warfare that included a forward by eminent British historian John Keegan. The book revised what was known about Greek warfare somewhat, and was considered very good. Since then he's been a military historian, and chronicler of the experience of farming, and written on Greek culture and history. Of late, however, Hanson has branched out and become something of a social critic and pundit, opining on a series of things. He has a sharp tongue, a sharper wit, and a nasty ability to deflate the reputations of those he sees fit to target. This latest, short volume, is a compilation of columns he wrote, mostly for National Review Online, in the four months immediately following September 11 of last year. They are by turns incisive, penetrating, bitingly humorous, and entertaining, with the occasional one that's irritating. The one I liked the least was the author purporting to interview an ancient Greek soldier as if he were still alive, and just retiring, about the war in Afghanistan. All of the General's responses are actual quotes from something the man wrote. I didn't feel the article was successful, mostly because the questions and answers didn't quite match, as if this were a print version of the Conan O'Brien bit where he conducts the fake interviews with people, and they say outrageous things.<br />That being said, I enjoyed the book a great deal, and would recommend it.	2002-08-28
1430516:US	52850806	R18HERLY4L2YZR	0374158959	244095611	From Beirut to Jerusalem: Revised Edition	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Anecdotal account of a decade in the Mid east	I've been reading books on the Middle East since 9/11. I forgot I had this book for a while, and hadn't ever read it. When I came across it recently, I decided to read it, largely because of its tremendous reputation. I largely wasn't disappointed, but it should be noted that this is an anecdotal account, not, for the most part, real history or anything.<br />Friedman was a reporter in Beirut for UPITV for about 2 years, then returned briefly to New York, where he was hired by the New York Times to return and be the bureau chief. He did that for another 2 years, then was transferred to Jerusalem for another four. He was awarded a Pulitzer Prize for his reporting on the Sabra and Shatila refugee camp massacres in Beirut, and another one for his reporting on the intifada in Jerusalem and Israel in general.<br />Friedman's a reporter, so you get the reportorial style in lengthy form. There is anecdote after anecdote about various aspects of the conflict in the region, or life in the two countries Friedman was in. Friedman is a very good observer, and a perceptive reporter, so he does a good job of picking out the anecdotes that are instructive and recounting them intelligently. It is very instructive about life in both Jerusalem and Beirut. There is one chapter that's mostly reporting, covering the Syrian massacre at Hama in the mid 80's.<br />There also is some attempt at general history, and it's reasonably well-done if you're in need of it, and willing to go along with the superficialities of summarizing the points of a book by Bernard Lewis or Fouad Ajami in several paragraphs. I myself prefer going to the source and reading the authors themselves (I've read Lewis, only seen Ajami on TV). None of the conclusions he comes to here are revolutionary.<br />That being said, I think this is a good book on the Mid East, and I recommend it to anyone interested in the region. I gather there's an edition written after the one I bought, which has an extra chapter updating thebook through the late nineties.	2002-08-24
1434933:US	52850806	R5W6ZCCD3UMIX	0380820870	596006403	Shadows of Glory	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Brilliant Civil War suspense novel transcends genre fiction	Some years ago, I bought a Faded Coat of Blue, the first in this series, on a remainder shelf. I was aware of the book when it came out, but dismissed it as one of the hangers on of the Civil War craze engendered by Ken Burns' PBS series. Anyway, when I got around to reading the book, I was pleasantly surprised to discover the book is wonderful, and I am happy to report that the second book in the series fulfils the author's promise.<br />Abel Jones is a Welshman, a veteran of the Wars of Empire in the British army, where he was a sergeant. Tired of war, he left the army and immigrated to America, hoping to make a new start. He arrived several years before the Civil War started, and when it opened, felt he had to be a loyal citizen and join the army, this time as an officer. He was wounded at the battle of First Manassas, which is a convenient device to allow the main character to be a behind-the-scenes player without having people wonder why he's not on the frontline (he still limps). He's married (and faithful), doesn't drink, smoke, or swear, and is true to his word. He's a very interesting, and unusual character.<br />In this adventure, he's been sent to upstate New York to investigate a series of murders. One of the victims was a Union army officer, and another an informer who'd been tasked with infiltrating a group of Irish malcontents who apparently are plotting rebellion against the U.S. government (something said government doesn't need in the middle of the Civil War). Apparently a mesmerist is involved, but how we don't know, and of course he has a pretty daughter who's a psychic. There are some wonderful side characters, including Susan B. Anthony and Frederick Douglass, and the completely fictional characters are fun also.<br />The main thing that makes this book so good, though, is the prose. The whole thing is told in vernacular, with all of the appropriate turns of phrase and sentence that someone from Wales, a God-fearing man who'd been to India withthe redcoats, would use. It's rare to come upon a writer who can do this for 300 pages (George Macdonald Fraser comes to mind, so does the late Ellis Peters) and someone who does it this seamlessly is truly skilled. I gather the name is a pseudonym. I don't really care, though, just as long as he keeps writing these books	2002-08-20
1437153:US	52850806	R1SOXOJ2CAZ6XM	1882810651	513451103	Last Chance for Victory: Robert E. Lee and the Gettysburg Campaign	Books	2	45	65	N	N	One sided view of Gettysburg	This isn't actually a study of the Battle of Gettysburg so much as a study of Robert E. Lee's generalship there, and even then, it should be noted that it's really a defense of his generalship. Somewhere in the front of the book there's talk of an objective critical analysis, or something to that effect. Depends on your point of view, of course, but I wouldn't call it that at all. More along the lines of a nearly complete exoneration, something Lee himself never did or even tried to do.<br /><br />For one thing the book has an almost relentless pro-Confederate bias, in all aspects of its arguments. One example will suffice. In the early stages of the book, while discussing Lee's early career, the authors note that the U.S. Army in Mexico paid for all the food they foraged from the residents, which is true. The authors then opine that this probably was Lee's cue to act similarly during the 1863 campaign in Pennsylvania. This is one of those hoary old myths that deserve to be put to rest. The Army of Northern Virginia did pay for all the livestock and food they took while they were in the North---in useless Confederate paper money! They didn't pay, however, for the several hundred African-Americans (escaped slaves and freedmen) that they kidnapped and took south with them when they retreated. Neither of these two facts makes Lee look like the gallant cavalier the authors want you to be thinking of, however, so you need to ignore the little man behind the curtain for a minute while they regale you with the great general's gallantry.<br /><br />This is just the start, however. Everyone, it seems, made mistakes at Gettysburg. Davis goofed in not reinforcing Lee's army before it headed north. This is the only place I've ever heard the fantastic argument that Lee should have been reinforced from the west, rather than the other way around. The authors make the point that only in the east could the war be won by the Confederate army (as opposed to simply avoiding defeat) andfeel that defeat in the west, at least in the short run, wasn't decisive. The part they leave out is that while victory in the east was possible, it would have been very difficult to pull off, and the Union armies there would have had an equally difficult time (and did, in actuality) defeating Lee's army. If Lee had reinforced either the Johnston/Pemberton armies, or Bragg's facing Rosecrans, the situation in the west might have recovered some, and it's difficult to see how things in the east would have been much worse. True, the farmers in northern Virginia would have had to endure Yankee occupation for another summer, but can anyone imagine Hooker (still in command of the army, presumably) doing anything intelligent, given a second chance?<br /><br />One major emphasis of the book is that Lee's plan for the battle, and the orders that he gave laying these things out, were basically brilliant, and that scores of other historians (Alan T. Nolan, Harry Pfanz, Edward Coddington, Glenn Tucker) simply don't understand the fine points of Lee's brilliance. The famous discretionary order to take Cemetery Hill given to Ewell at the end of the first day turns out to be peremptory, with the phrase \\"if practicable\\" just a courtesy. His resignation after the battle was an attempt to cover for incompetent subordinates. The authors argue that Lee's system of making suggestions rather than giving orders basically never existed, or at least wasn't in use here, when everyone else agrees that it did and was. Most other historians prefer Richard M. McMurray's point that the suggestion command system only really ever worked when Lee was in command of the army, with Jackson, Stuart, and Longstreet his principle subordinates.<br /><br />Instead this book goes on and on, repeating and hammering home the arguments that Lee made few mistakes until the third day of the battle (which, by a weird coincidence, gets the least coverage by far of the three) and that all of the responsibility forthe defeat rests with Lee's subordinates, and Davis' refusal to reinforce the army before the battle. One side point: Longstreet is relatively gently handled, and rather extensively praised for his handling of his part of the second day's attack, which the authors see as achieving its objectives. This is one of the points that the author's make which is actually worthwhile: they believe that the assault on the second day was intended to lead to an attack by Dorsey Pender's division, which would have captured Cemetery Hill, and which was derailed when Pender was mortally wounded by an artillery shell. This is actually a good point, but the authors manage to obscure it. They also think Hood's wounding earlier had a negative effect. They do tend, however, to think that if things went according to plan, the Union army would have been powerless to stop the Confederates, and never consider the riposte that Meade would have come up with for a particular stratagem.<br /><br />Lastly, I must concur with the one reviewer who complained about the typos. There are numerous errors; they detract from the book greatly. I also can't see what the various Dale Gallon paintings are doing in a serious history of the battle.<br /><br />It's been a long time since I've read such a polemic history of anything. You almost never come across a book which criticizes other books by respected historians on the subject as \\"flat wrong\\" and \\"mistaken.\\" The authors have a habit of cherrypicking too. When Glenn Tucker praises Lee, he's brilliant, but when he criticizes him...you get the picture. There are some good points here, but I can't recommend the book for anyone but the most serious student of the battle, and he needs to be aware of the bias of the book prior to putting it to use, or at least recognize it.	2002-08-18
1441034:US	52850806	R1Y4WPZUGIIG2U	0451407636	260255103	Mockery of Justice: The True Story of the Sam Sheppard Murder Case	Books	2	10	12	N	N	Sheppard case ineptly told	The Sheppard murder case is probably the most famous in America, certainly the most famous prior to O.J. Dr. Sam Sheppard, a relatively prominent doctor from suburban Cleveland, was accused of murdering his wife. The case was tried in the newspapers, and he was convicted before the trial even began, served a dozen years in prison, and then was acquitted by a second trial. There are still legal proceedings going on in this trial (his family wants a full exoneration for him) and interest in the case continues.<br />Dr. Sam (as he is known to distinguish him from his son, Sam Reese Sheppard) was apparently wrongly convicted, and according to police investigators in the book, never would have been indicted under similar circumstances now. A more thorough investigation of the other people in the lives of the Sheppards would have been conducted also. The authors make a good case that the investigation in 1954 was very sloppy and incomplete, apparently because they'd already decided who the culprit was.<br />Unfortunately, this is all told in wooden prose, almost unreadable at times. Further, in the first half of the book there are numerous flashbacks (or flashforwards, depending on your point of view) with the action shifting between 1954 and the 90's. The second half of the book jumps between several suspects that were looked at in the investigation conducted by Sheppard's son (who's one of the co-writers) along with a host of other people, including the other author of this book. It's all not very well sorted (I found myself leafing back and forth trying to remember who various people were, and losing interest, to be frank) and somewhat confusing, though the conclusion seems obvious enough. <br />There is much to like about this book. Unfortunately, most of what is likable about it is buried under a mass of barely-readable prose, and told in such a way as to make it considerably less than compelling. Frankly I wish I could give this book a higher rating. Reality, however, has to set in. It's not that good a book, except on the level of exonerating Sam Sheppard.	2002-08-15
1446551:US	52850806	R2NCCAU8OBVHJ5	0399148701	17508097	Red Rabbit	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Ryan returns to his roots, sort of...	Tom Clancy has had a good run with the Jack Ryan series, starting with The Hunt for Red October, then the prequel Patriot Games, and a series that followed him after all the way to the White House. Unfortunately that seems to have boxed Clancy in a bit: now that Jack's the President, and had two books in the office, what further adventures can he have? The answer is to return him to the days when he was a novice CIA analyst, and have him be involved in some things we haven't heard much about before, spy stuff that's interesting, to say the least.<br />One difference between this book and the previous ones is that the events involved aren't totally fabricated. This is, after a fashion, a modified historical novel, though it only takes place about 20 years ago. I won't give away the plot, or even what the premise is, because if you haven't heard the story it's a surprise. Suffice it to say that it'll make the Solidarity movement in Poland, and various other events of that era look completely different.<br />We also get early looks at the other characters in the Ryan cast, from his wife to Admiral Greer, Dan Murray from the F.B.I., and even Ed and Mary Pat Foley, who work the Moscow station with aplomb as the Nick and Nora Charles of espionage. It's all very fun.<br />I do have a couple of small quibbles. The characters say things like &quot;thinking outside the box&quot; and &quot;been there done that got the t-shirt&quot; that I believe to be sayings of the 90's, not the 80's, and practically none of the characters in the later books don't appear here. Even Mr. Clark appears briefly, though he's in someone's thoughts, rather than in the story.<br />All of that being said, it's still a very good book, and I enjoyed it, especially the premise, which is very well-done and constructed and very interesting. Lastly, from the ending, you're not as curious as to where he's going from here with the series: the author leaves a large hint there will be a sequel following this book.	2002-08-09
1452840:US	52850806	R34WW0XRWBA37L	0060193638	220335700	Gettysburg: A Testing of Courage	Books	5	81	84	N	N	Gettysburg not for the faint of heart	The battle of Gettysburg is probably better chronicled than any event in American military history, if not the world's. Writers have gotten tired of telling the history of the battle completely, and moved on to write \\"microhistories\\" of one part or another of the battle. The present book is billed as the first attempt at a complete detailed history of the battle since Coddington's The Gettysburg Campaign, a wonderful book published, if memory serves correctly, in 1968. Trudeau has a good reputation, and so I was looking forward to this, the first of his books I have read. I wasn't disappointed.<br />There is a considerable amount of information here, and it's quite well presented. The author writes clearly and concisely, and the action is explained well and is easy (at least for someone who's well-versed in Civil War history) to follow. Some of the other reviews criticize the maps, either for their format or the physical size. What they don't realize is that most publishers would be willing (even eager) to publish a book like this with perhaps three or four maps, thinking that sufficient. There are, instead, a plethora of them here (there's no list, but there must be three dozen) with details of unit positions and directions of movement. A key on the daily comprehensive maps showing which of the smaller ones covered what part of the battlefield might have helped a bit, though I had no problem. Then again, I'm pretty good with maps, and have read a lot on Gettysburg. One annoyance is that the maps are uncredited, which means we can't castigate or praise the cartographer.<br />The author has a writing style which apparently irritated some people. He writes in short passages, some only a paragraph long, some several pages, and they are arranged chronologically. This means that you read about the action on one flank, then move to the other, then to the middle of the battlefield, then back to where you started, a lot. I suppose if you aren't a Civil War buff, and well-read on the battle already, this could get a bit dizzying. I didn't have any problem, followed it easily, and enjoyed it. I spent the afternoon reading the last 130 pages without a break, enjoyed it, and will now go look up some of the author's other books.<br />A further thing to note is the author's care in debunking myths, and sorting facts out from the post-war posturing that pollutes so much of what was written about Gettysburg by the participants. The Confederate spy Harrison was apparently named Henry, not James as has been previously written (I just looked at a book where his name is Edward: perhaps we'll never really know). Ewell's decision not to attack Cemetery Hill or Culp's Hill is looked at from a different perspective, and Sickles' advance on the second day is dissected carefully. We learn that the Army of Northern Virginia encountered a considerable amount of sniping when it moved into Pennsylvania, as the Union army did when it campaigned in Virginia, and that they gathered up blacks and shipped them south when they could catch them.<br />All in all, I would consider this a wonderful book for anyone who's interested in the Civil War. Why a novice would pick up an almost 700 page book on anything is beyond me (referring to one of the other reviewers, complaining that this isn't for novices). If you're not a novice, buy it!	2002-08-04
1460018:US	52850806	R2R8DH1N5RDQUZ	0061098035	303934244	Burn Factor	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Mills tries a new character	Kyle Mills has been writing FBI procedural novels for about five years now. He got a boost up because his dad knows Tom Clancy, and Tom wrote a blurb for the first novel as a result, and has kept up the practice with each subsequent book. They're pretty good suspense novels, not entirely to my taste, but pretty good, nonetheless.<br />This latest book is a departure from the previous three. In those, the main character is a maverick FBI agent who keeps on getting crosswise of bureaucratic superiors. In this instance we have Quinn Barry, a computer programmer who works for the FBI in the hope of one day becoming an agent. She's working on a search engine for the Bureau, a program which will search all crimescene DNA that's been collected and compare it, allowing different police departments to track multi-jurisdictional criminals. She notices a glitch, which she first thinks is a bug, but which turns out to be a deliberate subroutine that makes the program ignore one string of DNA. When she looks into it, it turns out that the string is connected to a series of unsolved deaths, dissappearances, and murders involving beautiful young women. When she tells her supervisor about the (she then thinks) bug, she gets transferred to another department in another city, and soon is being watched and then attacked.<br />The book kind of goes from there. The bad guy is suitably evil, though the brilliant serial killer who likes good wine and is incredibly sophisticated is getting a bit much, don't you think? Generally, these guys have trouble writing a complete sentence. Anyway, the characters are more or less fun (some more believable than others) and the plot hums along, mostly predictably. The solution leading to a government conspiracy seems inevitable given the beginning of the plot, and the solution at the end of the trail is as predictable as the beginning.<br />I didn't dislike this book as much as it sounds. I did enjoy parts of it, a great deal. The prose is reasonablywell done, and there are parts where there is suspense. I just wish it had been a bit more creative.	2002-07-28
1464711:US	52850806	R62JTNCALE40S	0345431820	629430376	The Rebel Raiders: The Astonishing History of the Confederacy's Secret Navy	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Author of the Monitor does it again	James Tertius (is that Ter-tee-us, or Ter-shus?) de Kay is one of the most fun writers of military history alive. He's only hurt by the fact that he writes things on obscure and unusual topics, or treats them from an unusual angle. One of his books (Chronicles of the Frigate Macedonian) is essentially a biography of a ship, and another (Monitor) is that combined with a portrait of the man who designed her. One book mainly recounts a battle (The Battle of Stonington) in which no one was killed. The Rebel Raiders recounts the Confederacy's efforts to build commerce raiders in Britain, and the American authorities' attempts, largely unsuccessful, to stop them.<br />The first portion of the narrative is devoted to the construction of the ships in Britain, and James Bulloch's efforts in this regard. The second portion recounts Raphael Semmes' cruise in command of the Alabama, culminating in the famous battle off Cherbourg. A third part, shorter than the other two, recounts the efforts of the American government after the war to recoup the losses suffered by the American merchant marine because of the Alabama's cruise. Many ships that weren't sunk were sold to the British, who wouldn't, of course, pay full price or sell them back after the war.<br />De Kay is especially good at personalities, and this story abounds with them. Bulloch and Semmes are portrayed as interesting characters, and Charles Francis Adams, the American minister in London (a 19th Century ambassador) is active throughout the story. It's fascinating.<br />I do have a few criticisms. There's no index, and the one map given is inadequate. There was an attempt to recount all of the vessels purchased in Britain during the war, but the Stonewall, which made it out of port, and wound up in Cuba only to find out the war was over, isn't mentioned. Perhaps he's left that out for another book.<br />Given all of that, this is a wonderful book, and I recommend it strongly.	2002-07-24
1465058:US	52850806	R1S1MTO1KG8HAX	0743411439	995472619	Bitterroot	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Billy Bob Holland in Montana	James Lee Burke was raised in Texas (near as I can tell) and spent a large portion of his life in Louisiana. He teaches in Montana now, and divides his time between there and New Orleans. Since he writes about Louisiana and Texas, it's no surprise, is it, that the latest of his books takes Billy Bob Holland, the hero of two previous books, and drops him in Montana? While there he must take on self-indulgent celebrities, a gang of neo-Nazis, vacationing (or are they?) mobsters, a sociopathic rodeo clown, and assorted other characters who may or may not be dangerous.<br />I'm a big fan of Burke's prose. He seems unable to do two things: overwrite, or write a dull sentence. I imagine his grocery list would be a bestseller if he chose to publish it. He does have some problems, occasionally, with his plots, though the one here is sturdy and interesting enough, and the characters are frankly wonderful. I would highly recommend this book.	2002-07-24
1466664:US	52850806	R4234I3827WUG	0446610488	86199509	3: The Greatest War - Volume III: The Battle of the Bulge to Hiroshima	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Third book in series rounds out WW2	This is the third book in Gerald Astor's WW2 series covering American servicemen in all theaters, for the duration of the war. Now that I've finished the series, I can more completely comment on the books. While I enjoyed them, I must comment that there's as much left out (in terms of types of fighting, etc.) as there is included in the books.<br />For one thing, there's almost nothing on the Navy's war with the Japanese, and nothing at all on the War in the Atlantic. Combat in Italy seemingly stopped with the capture of Rome, the war in Burma is only briefly mentioned, and parts of the campaign in the Pacific are completely ignored. I will grant, however, that what's here is well-presented, with a thoughtful commentary hanging it together so that it makes sense.<br />I will comment on one further annoying thing. There are several places here where he quotes from books or authors that are reasonably well-known. For instance, two of the best known Marines-turned-military historians, Richard Wheeler and E.B.Sledge, get quoted in this book. Now I've read both men's accounts of their time in the war, so I don't need them rehashed, and I would have preferred something about someone I didn't have access to myself.<br />That being said, this is still a good book, and well worth the time invested reading it.	2002-07-22
1468496:US	52850806	R19F7EJD1V6UZ7	0890968071	885210933	Tomorrow the World: Hitler, Northwest Africa, and the Path Toward America (Texas A&M University Military History Series, No. 57)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Hitler's transoceanic strategies a stretch	Tomorrow the World is an odd book. The title and the inside flap explain that Germany had designs on the United States, and intended to conquer said nation, eventually. The proof, supposedly, is in this book. What you get, instead, is an in-depth analysis of German diplomatic and military initiatives in Spain and northwest Africa 1940-2. This is OK, but given that it doesn't live up to what it promises, frankly it's a bit disappointing.<br />The proof of the author's contention is embedded in various obscure diplomatic and military maneuvers that the Germans made, often supposedly at Hitler's behest directly, which according to the author show that Hitler was intending to confront the U.S. someday. Unfortunately most of these maneuvers involved either islands in the Atlantic (the Canaries or Azores, for instance) or French North Africa. None of this certainly shows Germany preparing for war with the U.S., because all of the actions could have been taken for other reasons, equally plausible ones. So all you're left with is a recounting of German diplomatic initiatives with regards to these locations, and that, while interesting, is at best a footnote to WW2.<br />One further note: this book is based on the author's doctoral thesis, and it reads like it. Paragraphs run to more than a page, sentences are interminable, and often it's hard to get the point. This is not for the faint of heart, or someone who isn't interested in the subject at a very detailed level.	2002-07-20
1476619:US	52850806	R2MPXA3H0T5U1W	0805056866	410651536	Eisenhower: A Soldier's Life	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Bio of Eisenhower only goes halfway	Carlo D'Este is one of my favorite authors, and I don't think there's a better military historian in the United States. It was, therefor, interesting to me to see that he'd written this book, following the life of Dwight Eisenhower. His previous biography, of George Patton, was complete and frankly one of the best military biographies I've ever written, so I was expecting something similar. Unfortunately, while this is still a good book, it doesn't realize the promise at that level.<br />This book follows Eisenhower from his beginnings in Texas and Kansas to the end of WW2. D'Este turned out to be quite good at depicting the beginnings of a person's life in the Patton bio, and he does the same credible job here. Eisenhower's early life is wonderfully brought out, and right up to the Second World War the book is quite good. Then things sort of go sideways.<br />Eisenhower's rise during WW2 was precipitous, to say the least. He was a lieutenant colonel on the eve of the war, wondering if he would get promoted again, and three years later he was promoted to five star general. He rocketed past most of the U.S. army, from Patton and Mark Clark to his old boss, Douglas MacArthur. <br />All of this is reasonably well recounted, but the author does something I've never seen in a book, or at least haven't seen at this level, and I will confess I was annoyed a bit. He quotes other authors. It would seem appropriate to quote from the various memoirs (Eisenhower's, Monty's, Bradley's, etc.) or perhaps an official biography, but he goes further, and at various times quotes Geoffrey Perret, Ronald Lewin, Russell Weigley, and so forth. If I want Geoffrey Perret's opinion on Eisenhower I'll read that book. Perhaps he was reacting to the Ambrose/Goodwin plagarism scandals?<br />The book is also shaped by a few opinions that the author holds, which are very important and which, if you read the Patton biography, you don't need me to tell you. If you didn't read it, you will need to bewarned of these things before you start Eisenhower: A Soldier's Life. He doesn't like Omar Bradley really at all, thinks he was at best a mediocre general, and often a really lousy one, thinks only a bit of Eisenhower himself, and thinks Patton was brilliant, if a bit flawed by his personality. Interestingly, he thinks relatively well of Monty. Patton and Monty were good tactically and strategically, but had no clue how to fight coalition warfare alongside Allies. Bradley, by Normandy, was getting fed up with both men's antics in favor of their own careers or methods of fighting the war. Bradley was horrified by Patton's slapping incident, and disgusted by Monty's seeming assumption that the British should be allowed to lead American troops to victory. Somehow Bradley comes out of this considerably behind the other two men, and is also censured for being \\"intolerant of failure.\\" As if being tolerant of it is a good thing.<br />There is one further issue: the book isn't a complete biography in that it ends in 1945. We don't see Eisenhower become president or anything of his postwar activities. Leaves you with an incomplete feeling.<br />So I only gave this book four stars. I do like Carlo d'Este, and I did enjoy the book, but not as much as I hoped to.	2002-07-13
1476843:US	52850806	R2X1IBBO9LTRZX	0312982879	606679676	Heartland: A Novel (Billy Tree Mysteries)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Entertaining mystery in middle America	David Wiltse established himself as a detective novelist a dozen or so years ago, with a series following a truly chilling FBI profiler who was almost a serial killer himself. Now he's gone in a different direction, establishing a new character who's a former Secret Service agent, wounded physically and psychologically by a horrific shootout with a Jewish fanatic who he has to kill.<br />Billy Tree survives this incident only sort of intact, and resigns from the Secret Service, returning home to Falls City Nebraska, staying with his long-suffering sister, looking up an old girlfriend, and generally trying not to do anything. There is, however, a shooting in town, and the local sheriff wants Billy to help with the investigation. At first very reluctant, Billy finally agrees, and the result is a clumsy investigation of many things, drugs, infidelity, white supremacists, and so forth.<br />Wiltse handles all of this quite well, and Tree is a well-made character. The mystery isn't that hard to figure out, though, and parts of the plot are a bit predictable. On balance, though, this is a good book, and worth a look.	2002-07-13
1481080:US	52850806	R1EQ0AMUO4SWFY	0515125024	845546119	Die Trying (Jack Reacher, No. 2)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Grim Adventure in the Militia Heartland	Jack Reacher is an interesting character. He's an ex-military policeman, wandering the country as a sort of modern-day knight errant, not really doing much of anything, when he stumbles into the kidnapping of a young female F.B.I. agent who has some interesting family connections. The kidnappers aren't very good at what they do, so we soon find out who they are, though their designs are somewhat obscure, mainly because they're crazy, and their plot doesn't make a lot of sense. Reacher is kidnapped too, and they're taken west into the heartland, journeying to who-knows-where, where the climax of the novel occurs.<br />As I said, Reacher's an interesting character. He's in control of the situation almost the whole time, and very controlled himself. He's an excellent shot (and uses this a great deal in the latter part of the book) and a real tough guy. There are, however, some enigmatic parts to his character. He seems to wander the planet without rhyme or reason, just cause he feels like it. There's no hint why he left the army (he apparently was very good at what he did, and didn't stick around for his twenty, which guarantees a pension) or why he does what he does. There's almost a sense of apathy about him at times, which suddenly transforms into concern for the lives of people he doesn't even know. Frankly, this makes me want to read more in the series, to find out what's up. <br />This is a hard book to review. It's a suspense story, but I didn't feel there was a lot of suspense. That didn't mean I didn't like it, though, mainly because I enjoyed the main character, Jack Reacher. I think I will look for other books in the series.	2002-07-09
1486222:US	52850806	R37V9XF1VZSDSU	044661047X	849682238	11: The Greatest War - Volume II: D-Day and the Assault on Europe	Books	4	0	0	N	N	World War 2 chugs on	This is the middle volume of Gerald Astor's &quot;Let's see how much of WW2 we can cram into one book&quot; work, which was wisely broken into three pieces for mass market paperback. The title of this one says D-Day and the Assault on Europe, but it starts with the invasion of Sicily, and in the first half of the volume there's a fair bit of action in the Pacific. The second half of the book is almost exclusively D-Day, with the last chapter covering Dragoon in the south of France.<br />As I said in my review of the first volume, Astor does this sort of thing pretty well. He melds together oral histories with accounts of the battles themselves, and manages to keep you in the loop enough that you're not confused when something happens. He does have to leave out a good deal, though. The naval surface battles the U.S. Navy fought against the Japanese in the Solomons are almost completely ignored, other than one or two around Guadalcanal, and other things get only cursory coverage. And again, if you've read some of his other books, you will occasionally find yourself recognizing a person, here and there. Other than that, as far as oral history goes (and it's not my favorite thing, anyway) this is a good collection.	2002-07-05
1489665:US	52850806	RQVDENK7HQXPP	0786890037	908407552	Silent Joe	Books	5	4	4	N	N	New Character for Parker	T. Jefferson Parker is one of the better detective novelists around right now. One of the interesting things about him is the Orange County locales he uses, which are pretty much unique to him (Robert Ray used to use them a few years ago, but he appears to have stopped writing) and which he describes wonderfully. It's apparent he lived in Orange County, though the back of the book says he lives in Fallbrook, down by San Diego, currently.<br />Here, the main character, Joe Trona, is very unusual, a young sherriff's deputy in OC whose father horribly scarred him as a child, so that his face is horribly disfigured. He's been adopted and raised by a local deputy turned politician and his wife, even though they already have children of their own, and he's now his father's gofer, driver, and bodyguard. When a mysterious meeting goes horribly wrong, and his father's killed in a murky shootout, Joe must work to find out what happened, and try and fix what went wrong. We see everything through the eyes of this wounded individual, and it's interesting. There's also shootouts, fights, and romance, along with lore of the jail where Joe works as a guard.<br />This is probably Parker's best novel in some time, to my mind anyway. I did like the Merci Rayborn books (he's about to release a third one) but I think this one's better.	2002-07-02
1494891:US	52850806	R33H3VL749UH86	0451205626	873881745	Cold Paradise (A Stone Barrington Novel)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Stone Barrington's at it again	Stuart Woods is a strange author. He writes these detective novels. They have mundane plots, relatively straightforward action, and somewhat pedestrian dialogue. Yet they're very popular, and he's built up a considerable following (of which I would consider myself a member) writing them for about two decades. The strangest thing of all is his ability to hang the whole plot of a book on one or more ridiculous coincidences, and get away with it. This book has several enormous whoppers, and yet it works reasonably well.<br />Stone Barrington, for those who don't know him, is a former NYPD homicide detective who went to law school nights, and got himself hired by a fairly prominent law firm in the city. He does the odd legal stuff for them---getting someone's son out of jail when they get caught DUI, sorting out where all the assets went in a messy divorce, that sort of thing. In the current installment, he's hired by a dot.com billionaire entrepreneurial geek to find the woman of his dreams, who he's only met once. He only knows her name, doesn't know much of anything about her, and yet is in love with her anyway. Stone travels to Palm Beach, Florida, to find her, and winds up helping an old flame out of some legal difficulties too. There's a new romance with the geek's sexy chef, entanglements with a former lover, and an ex-wife (which could be confusing if you haven't read the previous books in the series). Much intrigue and deception follow, and there is the requisite suspense, and romance.<br />While this is a good book, it's not the best suspense novel ever. It is, however, a reasonable entertainment for a plane ride or an afternoon on the beach.	2002-06-28
1501831:US	52850806	R1BCSF5X8B9MJE	0449003795	469684331	"P" is for Peril (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery, Book 16)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Not her best effort, but...	Sue Grafton has been writing this alphabet series for a while now, and she's gotten good enough at it that when she's not in top form, she's still pretty good, and can get away with a bit. That's what happens here; the book's not that good, but Kinsey Millhone is fun anyway.<br />In this installment, Kinsey's hired by a scorned ex-wife to look for her lost husband, who's not only abandoned her but disappeared some time later. The hubby has a new wife (a much younger ex-stripper), a nursing home he supervises that's in trouble, and various partners, co-workers, friends, and family. Kinsey must sort through all of this to figure out what happened to the good doctor, and once she figures that out, more questions abound.<br />Meanwhile, Kinsey's also looking for new office space, and there's a handsome stranger offering to rent to her at a reasonable rate. This was the weakest part of the book to me. It seemed to read a bit like a Silhouette romance (not that I've ever read one, but this is how I imagine they would read) and be more than a bit predictable. The author did manage to pull off one surprise for you at the end of this. On the other hand, she left you wondering about something too.<br />The whole book does that, a bit, and it's just a bit annoying. Grafton's gotten in the habit of doing this: not completely finishing her story, tying up all the loose ends. I'm sure she would tell us that life's like that, but this is fiction, not life. A good book, but a bit annoying.	2002-06-21
1502838:US	52850806	R2IL8TIHFQIOYI	0446610461	771282297	The Greatest War - Volume I: From Pearl Harbor to the Kasserine Pass (Vol I)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Enormous history of WW2 still is cursory	This is a mass market version of Gerald Astor's magnum opus, a doorstop of a book that was so big I looked at it and actually laughed. I don't normally back off from large books: in this case, I wondered how much he could fit into the pages he had, and how much he'd have to leave out. The answer is, first, a great deal, second, more that he probably wanted to.<br />The book has been divided into three volumes. The first covers the war to the conquest of Tunisia. The first half of the book mostly deals with the war in the Pacific, with the only European sequence being a bit on the Eagle Squadrons. The action doesn't jump around much, just from chapter to chapter, and the author keeps you in the picture, generally at least, as to the course of the war, so that all of the action that you are presented with is in context. It's all reasonably well-done.<br />He does miss stuff, leave things out. The battle of Guadalcanal gets only a bit of coverage, and some of the smaller naval battles around the island are completely ignored. Some of the oral histories used have been in his other books, so if you've read a lot of Astor, be prepared for a bit of familiarity, here and there. Most of the stuff, however, is new.<br />Overall this is a good book. I didn't give it five stars mainly because I will admit to a bit of a prejudice against oral histories: they're only semi-useful in deciding why things happened the way they did. Astor's only so-so at working this into his books, so I deducted a star	2002-06-20
1509364:US	52850806	RQZDSMNEI0NNS	0312872720	408301661	Promise of Glory: A Novel of Antietam	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Mediocre novel of the battle of Antietam	My favorite novel, all time, is The Killer Angels, by Michael Shaara. There have been other good Civil War novels written: Tom Wicker's Unto this Hour comes to mind, and Richard Slotkin's The Crater. There's even several detective series set in the Civil War. So good fiction writing on the subject isn't that hard to find. Unfortunately, Promise of Glory doesn't stand up to well to the competition.<br />The novel starts with the Confederate army crossing the Potomac, then the obligatory \\"Look what I found!\\" scene where the Yankees find Lee's famous lost order (no explanation of how it was lost), then turns to the battle of South Mountain, and soon to Antietam, which occupies the last half of the book, approximately. The book recounts the campaign overall, and the battle also, following various soldiers on both sides into and out of combat. This works, sort of, but there are several problems with it, in addition to genuine flaws where the author apparently doesn't know things he should.<br />One problem is that while on the Confederate side, the author follows Lee, Longstreet, and Jackson, primarily, on the Northern side, he follows McClellan, and Porter (who's basically McClellan's toady). He has scenes with various other Union generals---Jesse Reno, who gets killed at South Mountain, Israel Richardson, ditto in front of the sunken lane, Hooker, who gets wounded leading his attack, etc. Since everyone that he picks gets wounded or killed, it's kind of disconnected.<br />Second, there are problems with the characters themselves. Lee and Longstreet are pretty much completely out of either the movie Gettysburg, or the book The Killer Angels upon which it was based. Lee even calls Longstreet Peter. His nickname was Pete, and Lee always called him \\"My Old Warhorse.\\" The only place I've ever seen him called Peter is in, you guessed it, The Killer Angels. And there's the whole Longstreet is cautious and Lee aggressive discussion, not copied from Shaara's book, but close enough to make you suspicious. Also, the story is that Longstreet became attached to the idea of defensive warfare at Fredericksburg, three months after Antietam.<br />Also there's the matter of accuracy. Jackson sends a courier to General Ewell, ordering him to send troops somewhere. This would be a neat trick; Ewell lost a leg at 2nd Bull Run, and was recuperating in Richmond. Hood commands a brigade on one page, a division on the next. He doesn't even mention one of the most famous incidents of the battle, when A.P.Hill's division approached the Union lines in captured uniforms, and the Union troops wouldn't fire on them because the uniforms looked friendly.<br />I like Civil War novels, and I wanted to like this one, and give it a good review. Sorry, but I can't.	2002-06-14
1511496:US	52850806	RQSNML1A0OYHY	0813109663	189102809	Vietnam	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Military History of Vietnam	The history of Vietnam is obscure to most Westerners, at least prior to the Indo-China war of the fifties. This book attempts to fill that gap, and provide a short overview of the history of the nation over the last thousand years or so. Given that it's a short book (text runs to just over 200 pages) it does a good job.<br />Vietnam has been wracked by wars and conquests during most of the period covered by the book, and make no mistake, that's the author's focus. There's nothing about culture, literature, art, science, or ordinary life in this book: it's about politics, and warfare. The author spends one chapter dealing with the period pre-French conquest, and a second covering the period of French colonialism. The rest of the book covers the Vietnam Wars from 1946-1975, with a brief chapter after chronicling the country's history since the end of the war.<br />This is a good book, given its limited scope. The author has much to say about the war, most of it critical of American and South Vietnamese leadership. Hey, they did lose the war! The book also doesn't flinch from recounting atrocities by both sides, recounting them judiciously, and not taking sides.<br />If I have a criticism of the book, it's that it's too short. Two hundred pages doesn't do justice to the history of the war at less than an overview level, and trying to fit the last thousand years in there too was perhaps a bit much. I found myself wishing for more.	2002-06-12
1514932:US	52850806	R3A9X17HDY6G6N	0345391691	920269539	The Battle for God	Books	4	36	41	N	N	History of Jewish, Christian, Muslim Fundamentalism	This is the second book by Karen Armstrong that I've read, the first being her short history of Islam. This book is somewhat longer, and is in some ways a more ambitious book: the author attempts to examine fundamentalist views in the three monotheistic religions (Christianity, Judaism, and Islam) and contrast and compare how these three have developed in modern society, demonstrating that they aren't the reversion to \\"old-fashioned\\" beliefs that they would have people believe. Instead they are deliberately irrational responses to a modern world that they see as too secular, or conversely not religious enough.<br />Armstrong starts with four chapters presenting background for the heart of the book. This extended introduction runs to 130 pages, each of the first three chapters dealing with one of the religions in question from the middle ages through the early modern era, with the fourth chapter catching Islam and Judaism up with Christianity. The other 240 pages of text are chronological, with subsections dealing with each of the religions involved. It reads (to my mind) unusually well for a religious book of this sort, which I usually don't care for that much.<br />The author's main premise is that there are two ways of thinking of things: mythos and logos. Mythos deals with unreality: legend, superstition, ancient religion. It's more emotional, and deals with the intangible. Logos is more specifically book learning, mathematics, engineering and the like. It deals more with logic and solid truth. The problem is that the two ways of thinking conflict, and religion tends to reside more comfortably with mythos while logos is the seat of modern society and technological progress. This leads to a conflict, especially when religious people feel left out of society for one reason or another, usually having to do with progress and mainstream society's secular nature.<br />The author expounds on these themes very well, and makes it clear why fundamentalists have prospered in all three religions. I did start out with a basic misconception: I assumed that the battle for God she would be talking about would be between the three religions involved. Instead, it's within each of them, not between them. Once you're over that hurdle, this is a wonderful book	2002-06-09
1520217:US	52850806	R1QMVJFI1XIQFG	0425182878	853678814	Chosen Prey (Lucas Davenport, No 12)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Another entry in the Davenport saga	By now, John Sandford (the pen name of John Camp) has these things down pat. His main character, Lucas Davenport, is a three-dimensional policeman, hunting serial killers and dangerous murderers, seducing women, and cracking wise now and again. The secondary characters---other cops, the killer, his girlfriend, victims---are marvelously rendered, and you're actually sad when one meets his/her end.<br />This time around, the bad guy is an art professor named James Qatar, who kills beautiful women, and has been doing it successfully for years. He's an interesting and very well-drawn character, what with his obsession with clothing, and his meticulousness about the killings that he does. Davenport is looking at a particular murder, and it's discovered that a woman, missing for several years, resembles the killing in a few details. Then clues begin to build up, and the suspense builds as the plot thickens, so to speak.<br />I would recommend this book, though of course it's not the best (I still think Rules of Prey was in a class by itself; it should be read first) and if you haven't read other books in the series you're going to be a bit at sea about the relationships between the various characters. Still, a good book.	2002-06-05
1523019:US	52850806	R2K0J5TPRQ3FM1	1584650753	341086360	My Brave Boys: To War with Colonel Cross and the Fighting Fifth	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Civil War Battlefield History at its Best	I've read what seems like a ton of books on the Civil War. It seems that there must be nothing left to learn, but of course that's not true, there's more. Two newspapermen from Concord, New Hampshire, are the latest entrants in the Civil War history competition, and their book, My Brave Boys: To War with Colonel Cross & the Fighting Fifth, is one of the best Civil War regimental histories ever written. It's amazingly well researched, wonderfully authentic, and well-enough written I was sorry it ended.<br />The Colonel Cross of the title was Edward E. Cross, a newspaperman from New Hampshire who had worked on newspapers in Ohio and Arizona before the war started. He was an American party member (the \\"Know-Nothings\\") and something of a bigot, but very strong-minded on the subject of the preservation of the Union. When the Civil War began, he immediately returned to New Hampshire, and through political connections was given command of the state's Fifth regiment. He immediately recruited as many experienced soldiers as he could, turned them into drillmasters, and began to transform his crowd of farmers and townsmen into soldiers.<br />The training paid off. In its first fight, the regiment acted as if it were composed of veterans, and the authors make it clear that it didn't lose this composure until long after Cross' death at Gettysburg, when it was weakened by draftees (from other states even!) who didn't want to fight, and weren't properly trained. The heart of the book follows the regiment through its baptism of fire in the Seven Days, the Second Bull Run campaign, Antietam, Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, and Gettysburg, where as I said, Cross was killed. The narrative keeps you apprised of the course of the battle well enough that you understand the context of the regiment's actions and the opinions of the participants, without bogging down, and the battles themselves are recreated here as well as it's ever been done. The authors have, through contacts they havein the state, found several people who have collections of letters from participants to relatives back home. These give the narrative an immediacy and authenticity that might otherwise have been lacking.<br />Lastly, the maps are gorgeous. This is the sort of thing that's difficult to do in a book like this, and often you're presented with a blurry recreation of something from the era, overburdened with detail and almost illegible. The authors made a happy choice in allowing Charlotte Thibault, who's apparently the newsroom illustrator at the paper they both work at, to draw the maps. She's done a marvelous job: they convey the situation in the battles, and the Fifth's position and actions in the fighting, while being clear and easy to understand.<br />Pride and Travis have produced one of the best books on the Civil War in a good while. It'll be interesting to see if they have anything else up their sleeves.	2002-06-02
1523580:US	52850806	R1KYB0OI41FRK7	0399147101	540217053	Potshot	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Spenser rides with the gang	Robert B. Parker's been writing Spenser novels so long that at this point I think it's almost Zen. He writes so sparingly that it's almost more important what he *doesn't* write than what he does, which would be very confusing if this was the first Parker novel that you read. Fortunately for Parker, he's got legions of fans who've followed Spenser and Hawk and Susan through 25 books or so, and they have no trouble.<br />This time around, Spenser's hired by a beautiful blonde with a strange personality. Her husband's been killed in a small town in Arizona named Potshot, where they lived and ran a horseriding business. It seems everyone knows a gang of thugs that have coalesced into a primitive form of organized crime, and everyone knows they killed hubby Steve. No one in the town, however, least of all the local cop, is willing to do anything about it, so she hires Spenser. He decides to poke around and see what happens, in typical Spenserian detective style. Most detectives bother to look for clues: Spenser's found that it's a waste of time.<br />The bad guys duly show up, led by a maniac known as the Preacher. They have a confrontation, and Spenser decides that they outnumber him, so he leaves, collects Hawk and a motley crew of associated thugs from past books, and returns to finish things, working on picking up clues in the meanwhile. His theory of letting the poking do the detecting only sort of worked.<br />All in all, this is a worthwhile Parker Spenser novel. It's entertaining to see all the tough guys he's had adventures with in the past together at once. Sort of like the dream team in the Olympics, that first time.	2002-06-02
1525426:US	52850806	R59UPVE7P9G1A	0312981341	801031260	Reflecting the Sky: A Bill Smith/Lydia Chin Novel (Bill Smith/Lydia Chin Novels)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	SJ Rozan continues to get better	Years ago I read a mystery novel, the main character of which was a woman who worked as a private eye in New York City. She was Chinese-American, had a constant series of fights with her mother over everything, and had an interesting dichotomy of cultural influences, being of Chinese ancestry but very American in many ways. It was called China Trade, the author was an architect named SJ Rozan, who lives in NYC, and it was wonderful. Rozan has to now be the best kept secret in mystery fiction: the only woman to win a Shamus besides Sue Grafton, she never is on the bestseller lists, and is relatively anonymous.<br />One of the most interesting aspects of the series is the narration. In typical hard-boiled style, the main character narrates the story. The twist here is that the Chinese-American woman, Lydia Chin, mentioned above has a sometime partner in detective work, a former sailor named Bill Smith, and the author switches narrator every book. Stone Quarry, the last book prior to reflecting the sky, and the sixth, was narrated by Bill, so this time Lydia is narrating again, as at the start of the series. It's one of the more entertaining and difficult things to pull off, changing narrators, and making it believable. Read through the rest of the reviews for this title, and you'll find most of the reviewers like the one character or the other as a narrator more than the other. That says to me that the author succeeds in making the two different.<br />In the current installment, Lydia is sent on a deceptively simple errand by her \\"Grandfather\\" Gao, an elderly friend of the family and community leader. A lifelong friend of his has passed away, and his ashes and a keepsake must be returned to Hong Kong, to the part of his family that's still in the former colony. Lydia is a bit suspicious that everything isn't what it seems, because Grandfather Gao tells her to take her partner, Bill Smith, with her, even though no trouble is supposedly expected. When they arrive, Lydiaand Bill stumble right into the middle of a kidnapping, and things take right off. The author throws everything at you: a shady antiques dealer, a shifty fortune teller, a martial arts movie stuntman, various thugs and intrigues, and even foreigners in Hong Kong (Filipina amahs, or au pair girls, who are ubiquitous) are all drawn wonderfully, and the plot hops right along for 250 pages.<br />Like I said to start, SJ Rozan is one of the best kept secrets in mystery fiction. It's only a matter of time before the secret gets out.	2002-05-31
1531125:US	52850806	R2FG5W0FYTUE5T	0094557802	124257140	Journey Through Britain	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Walking the length of Britain	John Hillaby apparently wished to write about walking, and what you see along the way. Setting out with a backpack and some supplies, he walked the length of Britain the in the late '60s, a time when there were hippies everywhere, and the country was in a bit of turmoil. What he demonstrates by this is that, though the police are more intrusive than they used to be (during the journey they hurried him along out of town for sleeping in the common more than once) the country remains Britain, with all of its strange and eccentric accents, monuments, and customs.<br />Hillaby walks from Land's End (the southwest corner of Britain) to John o' Groats (the northernmost point of the island), mostly along the west coast. The edition I had of the book (Folio Society 1987) contained several beautiful maps with the author's path traced in meticulous detail, so that the problem detailed by the audio review was replaced a bit by perhaps knowing too precisely where the author had been. It's not really needed. Other than that, though, the book is very fun, and worthwhile, provided you remember that he wrote it almost 35 years ago.	2002-05-26
1531196:US	52850806	R35NQ36CDV0E1B	0156714663	118432034	Pax Britannica: Climax of an Empire	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Trilogy is a wonderful work on the British Empire	Jan Morris is a fascinating personality. She originally was a he, and he was a guardsman in the British army, an officer from a good family. He left the service, became a historian, and then went to Denmark or wherever, and came back a she. She now writes unusual, affecting, eccentric, entertaining books that are terribly British and a bit disorganized. The Pax Brittanica trilogy is her life's work, near enough, though she's done other books that are very good. This one, however, is three volumes long, quite involved and very detailed. The series includes Heaven's Command, Pax Britannica, and Farewell the Trumpets. The first generally deals with the Empire in the 1840s on, the second follows things through the thirties, and the third follows the empire through its disbandment.<br />As I said, Morris is eccentric. This means that though the books are sort of chronological, they aren't exactly sorted the way you would expect, and this isn't really a history of the empire or the era. Instead, it's an anecdotal collection of tales, incidents, and sketches, marvelously told. Sort of like the difference between going through a cafeteria once and a sumptuous buffet where you go back and forth, taking time with what you enjoy. I thoroughly enjoyed the books, though I would hesitate to recommend them to someone who wasn't clear on either geography, or at least some basic history of the British Empire. Since this isn't either of those, you need them to understand what she's talking about occasionally.	2002-05-26
1531297:US	52850806	R2R1OND86SMY4U	0156302861	758291892	Farewell The Trumpets: An Imperial Retreat (Harvest/Hbj Book)	Books	4	17	22	N	N	Trilogy is a wonderful account of the British Empire	Jan Morris is a fascinating personality. She originally was a he, and he was a guardsman in the British army, an officer from a good family. He left the service, became a historian, and then went to Denmark or wherever, and came back a she. She now writes unusual, affecting, eccentric, entertaining books that are terribly British and a bit disorganized. The Pax Brittanica trilogy is her life's work, near enough, though she's done other books that are very good. This one, however, is three volumes long, quite involved and very detailed. The series includes Heaven's Command, Pax Britannica, and Farewell the Trumpets. The first generally deals with the Empire in the 1840s on, the second follows things through the thirties, and the third follows the empire through its disbandment.<br />As I said, Morris is eccentric. This means that though the books are sort of chronological, they aren't exactly sorted the way you would expect, and this isn't really a history of the empire or the era. Instead, it's an anecdotal collection of tales, incidents, and sketches, marvelously told. Sort of like the difference between going through a cafeteria once and a sumptuous buffet where you go back and forth, taking time with what you enjoy. I thoroughly enjoyed the books, though I would hesitate to recommend them to someone who wasn't clear on either geography, or at least some basic history of the British Empire. Since this isn't either of those, you need them to understand what she's talking about occasionally.	2002-05-26
1531389:US	52850806	R1AXGPQ37YB8GK	0156400065	742015982	Heaven's Command: An Imperial Progress	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Trilogy is a wonderful account of the British Empire	Jan Morris is a fascinating personality. She originally was a he, and he was a guardsman in the British army, an officer from a good family. He left the service, became a historian, and then went to Denmark or wherever, and came back a she. She now writes unusual, affecting, eccentric, entertaining books that are terribly British and a bit disorganized. The Pax Brittanica trilogy is her life's work, near enough, though she's done other books that are very good. This one, however, is three volumes long, quite involved and very detailed. The series includes Heaven's Command, Pax Britannica, and Farewell the Trumpets. The first generally deals with the Empire in the 1840s on, the second follows things through the thirties, and the third follows the empire through its disbandment.<br />As I said, Morris is eccentric. This means that though the books are sort of chronological, they aren't exactly sorted the way you would expect, and this isn't really a history of the empire or the era. Instead, it's an anecdotal collection of tales, incidents, and sketches, marvelously told. Sort of like the difference between going through a cafeteria once and a sumptuous buffet where you go back and forth, taking time with what you enjoy. I thoroughly enjoyed the books, though I would hesitate to recommend them to someone who wasn't clear on either geography, or at least some basic history of the British Empire. Since this isn't either of those, you need them to understand what she's talking about occasionally.	2002-05-26
1531662:US	52850806	R3TWFFY0UCU5TX	015600397X	511372797	Battles:: A Concise Dictionary	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Concise dictionary has limited coverage	Ian Hogg is an old hand at the military history game. He mostly writes about artillery and other weapons systems, but he obviously has a reasonable command of the generalities of warfare throughout the ages, because he shows it here. This is a collection of short descriptions of battles from all eras of history. It's a bit tilted towards the British and World War 2, but that's to be expected: the author's British, and the Big One is his specialty.<br />There is a larger problem, though. Since the articles are short, you don't learn much, because there are so few, you're not that likely to find what you're looking for. A historian who isn't normally interested in military history might find this moderately useful: the author will give you a summary of the battle of the Somme or whatever, in a couple of paragraphs. Anyone that interested in the field is going to find things that are left out (from the Battle of Kadesh to numerous engagements in later times) there are just too many things to list in this short of a book. There is a lot of information here, don't get me wrong: I'm not complaining about what's in the book, but what isn't. If you're interested in military history, this is a good starting place as a reference, but don't count on it by itself.	2002-05-25
1532340:US	52850806	R19ZYFSHK47SLT	0618127429	258201995	The Reader's Companion to Military History	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Reference book aimed at armchair historians	This is one of the better reference books I've purchased, for all the wrong reasons. Instead of trying to produce a completely comprehensive encyclopedia of military history (there are already several available) the authors wisely went a different path, aiming the book at an audience that doesn't just want dry facts.<br />Cowley used to edit Military History Quarterly, and Parker is a professor in Ohio. Together they collected essays from 150 historians on a range of topics, many of them more vague than descriptions of battles or campaigns. There are also lists of Top Tens, like best commanders, most underrated, decisive battles, etc. The authors said once that the book was intended to be browsed through rather than used as a reference exclusively, and it's very good for either.<br />A fine book, and a good addition to any library owned by a military history buff, enthusiast, or academic.	2002-05-24
1533049:US	52850806	R3ESQQAIBBDZ1L	1853673838	357783420	WHY THE GERMANS LOSE AT WAR: The Myth of German Military Superiority	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Short account of the German's defeat in WW2	This is an odd book. Kenneth Macksey writes military history about WW2, and he often does topical stuff (on Hitler's errors in the war, etc.) and biographies, rather than straight battle or campaign histories. His one account of a campaign is fictional, depicting the invasion of England as it might have happened in 1940. From all of this you would expect a book with a title like \\"Why the Germans Lose at War\\" to be unusual. It is, but not in the way you would suspect.<br />In the first place, the title could have been \\"Why the Germans Lost World War II.\\" The author is clearly more comfortable dealing with this war than the others cited in the subtitle, which promises to cover Germany's conflicts from Napoleon to Hitler. As a result, the prelude to Hitler takes up about 30 pages of a 200 page book, with the remainder being WW2. The Napoleonic era all the way to the Franco-Prussian war is covered in one short chapter. The focus of the book is almost exclusively WW2.<br />That being said, there are some interesting insights here. For one thing, Alfred Jodl emerges as a more skilled staff officer, and manipulator of Hitler, than I had previously thought, while Rommel is lambasted for incompetence. There is much discussion of the backbiting and intriguing that went on in the High Command of the German army, right up til the end, and much talk of personalities and ego. The author makes the point that the Germans apparently couldn't conceive of someone being smart enough to break the Enigma code when they themselves couldn't (the British used a version of the Enigma machine themselves during the war, and it was never broken by the Germans), and they were incapable of believing that the Soviets could gather the forces and equipment they did. The word arrogance is used several times.<br />This is all very well and good, and there's a considerable amount of truth in what the author says, especially about the culpability of the generals and the German populace in what happenedin Germany during the war. He rather bluntly states that they were accomplices of Hitler, and can't escape the judgment of history. That being said, the larger question of why the Germans lose at war, or at least lost World War 2, is allowed to remain relatively obscure, though some of the reasons are at least touched on. I would only tentatively recommend this book.	2002-05-24
1534979:US	52850806	R17YBPDGBQ9ITC	0802138160	461259436	Saint Joan of Arc	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Aging bio of Joan of Arc still worth reading	Joan of Arc (or Jeanne d'Arc, in French) was an interesting person, a female soldier in an age when women didn't fight, a visionary in an age of backwardness, a prophetess who wasn't believed in her day, and a valuable asset for the French nation, betrayed to France's enemies by Frenchmen. This book about her, written in the thirties, covers as much of her life as was known at the time (there haven't been many changes to the record since) in beautiful prose, with sympathy and understanding. Vita Sackville-West was a prominent member of society in Britain, and Catholic, so she understood some of the things that were going on in Joan's head as history unfolded around this strange young woman.<br />Sackville-West's book is very literary, and if there's one flaw it's that it doesn't show, sufficiently, how successful and revolutionary a soldier Joan was. She was much more aggressive than other French soldiers of the day, who had been conditioned to defend cautiously by the advent of the English longbow. How Joan overcame this isn't discussed (I suspect in part because this remains a mystery of sorts) though the remarkable fact of her becoming a soldier in this era where women didn't fight is commented on at great length. Joan's abilities as a prophet are also examined at great length, and analyzed carefully.<br />This book is a good starting point for anyone wishing to know more about Joan of Arc. There's nothing on the market since (at least not that I'm aware of) as well-written, and the scholarship is good, as far as it goes.	2002-05-22
1537619:US	52850806	RBIVFK89PAOVZ	0684832801	837753671	The Middle East: A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years	Books	5	50	52	N	N	A good Short history of the Middle East and Islam	I've been listening a lot to the radio since September 11, and there have been many journalists, diplomats, clerics, and academics on the air trying to explain Islam and the Middle East to us. One of the more interesting personalities doing this is a Professor of Near East studies at Princeton named Bernard Lewis, who's apparently of British extraction but has taught in New Jersey for more than 30 years. He's written a number of books on the region, and this one is sort of an overview of his work, near as I can tell. He also did a two-volume history covering only part of the period in this book; for those brave enough, perhaps that will provide the necessary detail.<br />Lewis is a renaissance man as a historian: once on NPR, he spent the whole half hour reciting poetry from the Middle East, to illustrate how artistic and sensitive Muslims can be. He obviously has an affinity for the region and the people. He also has considerable skill as a writer, making even things like literature and art interesting to someone like me, a military historian who's not real interested in anything outside of the diplomatic/military side of things. I was highly impressed with the book's readability.<br />The book is divided into several parts, but really there are four segments. The first is the pre-Islam period, the second early Islam, the third is an overview of Islamic society and culture that's not chronological, and lastly there's a chapter on modern times. The last two are the longest. Much of the book is narrative history, but the author doesn't get bogged down with the succession of caliphs or shahs, he instead informs you of trends and developments, doing a marvelous job of describing how things came out the way they did. One of the most significant things was the explanation of why Muslims have such a problem relating to Western governments: they not only don't have a tradition of separation of Church and State like ours, they don't even have a Church, in our sense of the word, at all. Instead, traditionally, the leader of the government is overtly religious, and rules as a Muslim. All who follow other approved religions (Judaism, Christianity, and Zoroastrianism in the east) are allowed to practice their faith, provided they accept second-class citizen status, and pay a special tax. Everyone else (atheists and various pagans, Buddhists, etc.) gets three choices: slavery, conversion, or death. The whole country is overtly religious, everyone is expected to attend prayers, study the Koran, etc., and anyone who is able may lead prayers in the church. Since there's no formal clergy, someone like Osama bin Laden can be regarded as a holy man, when he went to engineering school. It's all very different.<br />Lewis dispenses all of this painlessly, and discusses at great lengths the interactions of the various religions in the region, and also the various peoples. This is a worthwhile book, and I would highly recommend it.	2002-05-20
1537967:US	52850806	R1QX3KO8XFR7PG	1580800602	320726711	Ill Met By Moonlight (Classics of war)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Entertaining account of a unique British Commando raid	Stanley Moss must have been an interesting man. He obviously was an erudite individual, in that he was able to write this marvelous book, in spite of not being an author or anything like that. He was instead a soldier, a wartime one who had an office job before the war, but left to try and kill Germans, and win the war for the Allies. This book covers his account of his attempt (with one other British officer and a band of local partisans) to capture the commander of a German division in Crete, and spirit him back to Egypt via torpedo boat.<br />The book is very British. There's a marvelous sense of the British civilian upper class at war, bunglingly incompetent but amazingly brave, and very good-hearted. The bungling is strange in that the author clearly was an effective soldier (an afterward by Moss's partner, Leigh-Fermor, in my addition tells how Moss led a partisan detachment that killed 75 or so Germans several months after the events in the book) but he manages to convey that he's not very good at this war stuff. In one scene, he lets one of the Partisans examine his submachinegun ,and is then nervous because \\"I never know which buttons on these things to push\\" and sweats until the gun is given back to him. There's marvelous banter, slang, and nicknames (one of the Cretan partisans is called \\"Wallace Beery\\" because of his supposed resemblance to that actor) and even the torpedo boat captain is colorful, as he should be.<br />I was impressed with this book. The plot moves right along, doesn't get bogged down with too many details, doesn't try to portray what was done in a particularly brave or skilful way, just tells you the results, I would recommend it highly.	2002-05-20
1542730:US	52850806	R3C2847S1D9MO1	0891417222	358580136	Death Traps	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Armored Ordnance officer gives a bad review of US tanks	Belton Cooper was an officer in the 3rd Armored Division, which fought its way across France and Germany in 1944-45. His job in the division was taking refurbished tanks from the repair depot to the front-line units of one Combat Command, and locating and recovering the tanks that had been knocked out. He tells you that his division, and his combat command in that division, had seen more combat than any other armored unit in the U.S. Army, and then tells you that he thinks he's seen more knocked out American tanks than any other person living. It's a believable claim.<br />The book has a great deal going for it. There are a number of descriptions of armored combat at the close tactical level from the last year of the war. The illustration section has some very interesting photos, including one sequence where a Pershing tank duels with a Panther, and knocks it out. In the last photo you can see the Panther's crew bailing out. There's also a good deal of information on various American tanks. Cooper hates all of them, though he thinks the Pershing was better than the previous ones. He was involved in the deployment of a SuperPershing in the last days of the war, a tank which had a better gun and extra armor on it, and he tells you of the problems that they had with it, and it's fate.<br />I would highly recommend this book if you're an enthusiast of WW2 or armored combat, because it's well-written and very informative. It's not War and Peace or anything, but it is full of information, and reads reasonably well.	2002-05-15
1543079:US	52850806	R62EZ6LNS9K99	0425182894	912786438	Gunman's Rhapsody	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Parker moves to the OK Corral	Modern detective novelists seem to have a fascination with the westerns. Elmore Leonard did westerns for a while, Bill Pronzini too, and Loren D. Estleman even did an O.K. Corral novel some years ago, and given that this book is on the same subject, apparently there's some fascination. Parker's take on things isn't that different from Estleman's, for instance, but the way it plays out does come out in a unique fashion.<br />In Parker's take on things, the emphasis is on family. This is a well-known theme of the Earps: they supposedly always stuck together, no matter what, and were clear that they were going to, no matter what. They even backed one another against their \\"wives\\", when the women got upset with the one or the other of them. In this retelling of the story, the whole plot revolves around the brothers Earp (James, Virgil, Wyatt, Morgan, and Warren, older to younger) and how they react to various things. One thing they react to is Wyatt falling in love with the woman currently seeing the sheriff, Johnnie Behan. The brothers basically fall in line behind him, though their women (especially Virgil's Allie) are very unhappy with Wyatt dumping his current \\"wife\\" Matty.<br />Wyatt's action triggers Behan's anger, and he begins to scheme. Rather than challenging Wyatt directly he sets various \\"cowboys\\" on the warpath, with the Earps as their targets. Things slide along quickly, developing towards the O.K. Corral, and further shootouts and killings after. The plot moves right along and you're soon at the end of the book.<br />If there's a flaw in the book, it's that there is little character development other than the Earp brothers, Josie (Wyatt's new girlfriend) and perhaps Behan. Curly Bill Brocious and Johnny Ringo, Doc Holliday, and the secondary supporting gunmen who followed Earp after the O.K. Corral get almost no space. Instead Earp is the main character, striding through this novel paying no attention to those things that aren't important, and focusing onthose that are. It's an interesting character, well-drawn and worth reading about.	2002-05-15
1550541:US	52850806	R7CJIFDPYF9TY	1574882333	77277258	War Along the Bayous: The 1864 Red River Campaign in Louisiana	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Study of a little-known Civil War Campaign	The Red River Campaign isn't one of those parts of the Civil War that the public knows much about. In 1864, when the south was losing, and the only question was whether they could string things out long enough to get a more favorable president in the White House, the Union embarked, at Lincoln's insistence, on a wild goose chase up the Red River in Louisiana. The objectives were several fold: conquering Louisiana and Texas would discourage the French, who were in the process of establishing a new world monarchy in Mexico; this part of the region was overflowing with cotton that couldn't be sold, and many Union soldiers and especially sailors (who could legally claim prize money from its sale) were eager to seize it and get some profits if they could; conquest of this region would strengthen the Union's hold on the state, and increase the number of voters participating in the elections of officials that Lincoln was trying to get Congress to accept as the new representatives of the State of Louisiana. With such diverse objectives, it's no wonder the campaign was a failure.<br />But there were other reasons for the failure. The Union plan was only vaguely mapped out before they left Union territory (basically where the Red flows into the Mississippi), with the Union army and navy proceeding up the river to Shreveport, and capturing and holding that city, with even more vague intentions of proceeding to Texas after. The fleet was commanded by David Dixon Porter, a skilled but somewhat responsibility-shy admiral with no love for the army in this operation. His army counterpart, as much as there was one, was Nathaniel P. Banks, a Massachusetts politician turned soldier who had managed to goof up several campaigns previously, and was one of those political generals (Benjamin Butler was another) who seemed able to get the least out of the professional soldiers under his command. Banks was the local department commander, but apparently no one thought to appoint someone to actually command the troops in the coming campaign, so Banks had to go along and exercise authority over the various troops.<br />His opponent was Richard Taylor, the son of President Zachary Taylor, and the son-in-law of President (of the Confederacy) Jefferson Davis. Taylor too was an amateur leading an army of professionals. Strangely, in this campaign the Confederates had all the foreign soldiers serving in their army, with a French prince (Polignac) serving as first a brigade and then a division commander, and a Prussian cavalryman leading a regiment of Texans of German extraction thoughout the campaign. Naturally, as a result, the campaign has some colorful characters. It also has the interesting aspect of being enough of a backwater that the soldiers who were driven from prominent positions in the war on the other side of the Mississippi wound up here, where it was hoped their incompetence wouldn't hurt too much if it continued. Charles P. Stone, the man blamed (almost certainly wrongly, for political reasons) for the Union debacle at Ball's Bluff early in the war, was Banks' chief of staff. William B. Franklin, a mediocre corps commander under McClellan in the Army of the Potomac, was fired after Fredericksburg because Ambrose Burnside accused him (with some reason) of failure to obey orders, leading to the failure of his attack. Theophilus Holmes, who proved uncertain in command during the Seven Days Campaign in 1862, was in command of troops at the beginning of the Red River campaign, and was finally removed when he refused to fight once too often for the Confederate authorities.<br />Author Brooksher (whose previous book, Bloody Hill, about Wilson's Creek, I didn't read) does a competent job of combining the strategy, tactics, personalities, and oral histories of the participants into one volume, which isn't overlong. He didn't have maps prepared for this book, instead choosing to use maps from other books: this works somewhat, but not perfectly by any means. They aren't, as one of the other reviewers noted, the best maps anyway. But maps aside, the author does a very good job of recreating the nature of the campaign, and shows little bias (which you could expect to be pro-Confederate, the author being from Arkansas) towards either side. He makes it clear that the Union army won all but one of the battles, and if they'd been competently led he thinks they would have won the campaign. He also thinks that their victory would have had little affect on the course of the war, just as their defeat didn't prolong the life of the Confederacy much at all. And he shows considerable skill with the thumbnail sketches of the various characters in the campaign. All in all a solid book.	2002-05-09
1551498:US	52850806	R2BGZUUE8RS8RL	0425184234	814475128	A Small Death in Lisbon	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Compelling historical mystery: Nazi Noir	Portugal is not the normal setting for murder mysteries. I don't think I've ever read one set there before, and I've read a lot of books. So it was interesting to see one, and I'll go and look to see if I can get anything else by Robert Wilson, the author of this amazing story of intrigue, smuggling, power, corruption, and vicious murder, set in Portugal in the present, with flashbacks to the WW2 era and later.<br />Ze Coehlo is a homicide detective, breaking in a new partner, with all that you would expect from this as a plot device. His latest case involves a young woman who's been raped and killed, her body dumped on the beach a few hundred feet from his house outside Lisbon. As he investigates the crime, and questions suspicious parents, lascivious boyfriends, and a host of people who were preying on the young woman in one way or another, he begins to unravel a mystery that stretches back more than 50 years.<br />Meanwhile, there are numerous flashbacks. One small difficulty the novel has is the change of voice: the 1990's segments are narrated by Coehlo himself, while the earlier segments are in the third person. Here the main character is Klaus Felsen, a Berlin factory owner with a madame for a mistress, who's trying to make money and avoid service in the SS. The SS \\"persuades\\" him to work for them anyway, and he winds up in Portugal, buying large quantities of wolfram, otherwise known as tungsten. This hardened steel is used for armor, shells that penetrate armor, and gun barrels, and is therefore very strategic. So Felsen is sent to Portugal to buy as much as possible, and keep the British from getting as much as he can. He schemes his way through the war, conspires with various partners afterwards, etc. There are doublecrosses and triplecrosses galore in this half of the story, and it's rather amoral: there's no real protagonist.<br />Eventually, the whole of the thing does hang together, and there's a plot twist at the end that's quite deftly handled. Theatmosphere is wonderful, Coehlo, his daughter, and his partner are all compelling characters, and the plot is fascinating. I would highly recommend this book, can't speak too highly of it	2002-05-08
1555799:US	52850806	R3P7WTOTWFE0D2	0275932176	598705467	Heartbreak Ridge : Korea, 1951	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Very short battle account from the Korean War	This is a strange little book. It's very short, with only the first 127 pages being text. The rest is a bibliography, footnotes, and two (!) indexes. The author is a doctor and a lawyer who served in the army for 41 years (another of those overachievers where you wonder how the find time to do things) and apparently writes books in his spare time, when he has some. Perhaps this accounts for the brevity of the book itself.<br />Heartbreak Ridge is probably best known from the Clint Eastwood movie of that title, though the movie has little to do with the battle. The battle itself took place in the latter, non-maneuver part of the Korean War, where the conflict turned into what was essentially WW1 in more mountainous terrain, with an Asian enemy for the U.N. forces. After a few pages of introductory background, the author gets down to brass tacks, telling you all about the battle. The fighting was very intense, often at point-blank range, and the participants were often wounded or killed. Eventually, the U.N. forces captured the ridgeline, and the book concludes rather abruptly.<br />You have to wonder why the author wrote the book, given its brevity. One clue may be the participation of a battalion of Frenchmen, who were attached to the 23rd Infantry Regiment for the battle. The Frenchmen fought very bravely, and were the ones to actually capture the last pinnacle of the ridgeline and conclude the battle. The author seems to admire them a great deal, so perhaps this was the reason for the book.<br />If you're curious about Heartbreak Ridge, the author has written a good short account of the battle. It's accompanied by maps, two of which are almost worthless, the other two being of considerable value. You could almost use the last two maps and ignore the other two. The author informs you in a footnote that some other books designate a battle nearby as Heartbreak Ridge incorrectly, so perhaps on that note this is a valuable contribution. However, if you want to read something on the Korean War, there are any number of lengthier, more informative, and more comprehensive accounts of the war. I would recommend Max Hastings' The Korean War instead, as a for instance.	2002-05-04
1556034:US	52850806	R3SLYL0JLS7FQ8	0679640401	166313123	Islam: A Short History	Books	5	70	88	N	N	Compact history of Islam aims to clear misconceptions.	Karen Armstrong is an unusual woman. She was a nun for a while, early in her life. She teaches in a Jewish educational institution for rabbis. She's won awards from Moslem religious groups for her writings. And she writes and teaches about all three religions. You would expect, from all of this, that a book she writes that's a history of Islam would be good, and full of information. What you wouldn't expect is for it to be in 187 mostly painless pages, easy to read and follow.<br />I feel I should also respond or at least address some of the issues brought up by some of the other reviewers, to explain how I could rate a book so highly when many others didn't. First, of course it's short. The format of the series is short books on essential topics, and the subtitle says it's a short history. Complaining about its brevity in such an instance is tantamount to reviewing a book for not being something it was never intended to be. Second, there seems to be a tendency, especially among Christians, to pan this book because it doesn't show the inferiority of Islam to Christianity. This is a silly critism on several points: first, regarding the religion as inferior would make it hard to write an objective history of it, second, the author isn't a Christian these days anyway, third, the author's whole point is that the religion has evolved over the centuries since its formation, so saying it's one thing is a bit misleading. It's many things. On this same last note, someone criticized the author's supposed double standard in refusing to hold the Muslims in the book to the same moral standards Christians are held to elsewhere in the text. This is misleading, as the passage he was quoting referred to an Arab reaction to something Christians did, not whether that action was regarded as moral by the author. It's hardly the author's fault if Muslims themselves aren't always objective.<br />Islam is the subject of much study recently, given September 11 and the situation surroundingIsrael. From what I gather here and elsewhere, there are a lot of misconceptions, caused by people who have either distorted the religion itself, both bigots who misunderstood what they were seeing, and Muslims themselves, justifying the way they choose to run their governments or oppose them. This book spends most of its space discussing how the religion has evolved since Muhammad, and the various doctrinal differences between the groups that worship differently. It's explained in a clear, lucid text that was understandable even to me, an ill-educated military historian who's not too well-versed in religious history in the first place. I feel I gained a great deal from the book, and would recommend it highly to others.	2002-05-04
1557490:US	52850806	R19M3WA68QCFUY	0671017470	522231053	Rope: The Twisted Life and Crimes of Harvey Glatman	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Overlong and tediously informative true crime account	I've read a number of true crime books in the past. None of them has dealt with a character as strange as Harvey Glatman, a mousy little guy from New York who came to California to meet girls, and wound up tying them up and strangling them. It's a curious, strange story, and it'd be interesting if it weren't for Newton's obsession with getting every last fact before the reader.<br />The book includes a summary of each of the killings. Glatman essentially kidnapped the women, tied them up, photographed them, raped them, then strangled them, abandoning the bodies in the desert to the south or east of L.A. He was caught when his fourth victim fought back, and managed to get his gun away from him, running away right into the arms of a Highway Patrol officer getting off work. All of the facts of the crimes as far as the author can discern them, Glatman's trial (he pled guilty and requested execution as soon as possible) and subsequent execution, and even the disposition of the victim's personal effects, are covered in detail. It's fascinating for the most part, if a bit much.<br />The problem comes in the author's decision to go beyond that. He spends a chapter not only going over the killer's early life in New York, but briefly surveying the history of Jews in New York City (Glatman was Jewish and from N.Y.C.). The author seems obsessed with displaying a command of the study of serial killers which would no doubt be interesting in a survey of them. Unfortunately, given that the book is supposedly about Glatman, it's mostly distracting. To make things worse, the killings themselves are described in detail, mostly reconstructed from the interrogations the police did after Glatman was arrested. Several chapters later, the interrogations are repeated almost word for word, so that you go over the same material again. It's a bit much.<br />Lastly, remember that I said Glatman took photographs? They were apparently destroyed after his conviction (some of them were nude) but anewspaper in Denver got some of the milder ones and published them, and Newton reprints them. They're nothing compared with modern pornography: women bound wearing clothes, with frightened expressions on their faces. The idea that the fear is real, though, is a bit unsettling, and some may be squeamish about this.<br />All in all this is a solid true crime book, if a bit heavy on the detail and extraneous material.	2002-05-03
1557898:US	52850806	R2D33RW1YUF4YQ	0304354570	11920435	Cassell Military Classics: Burma Victory: Imphal and Kohima March 1944 to May 1945	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Short Summary of the Burma Campaign is Valuable	The Allies fought the Axis in World War II in many strange places. Deserts, arctic wildernesses, jungles no one ever heard of, all of these saw combat during the war. One of the most remote and obscure areas to see a major campaign in the war was Burma, which the Japanese conquered in short order in 1942, and lost in 1944-45. The latter campaign, in which the Japanese started out attacking the British and Empire forces in India, and wound up losing Burma, is the subject of David Rooney's book Burma Victory.<br />In 208 pages the author covers every major aspect of the campaign, the leading personalities on both sides, and the issues that influenced the course of the battle. Starting out with a short overview of the lead-up to the 1944-45 battles, he swiftly moves into the battles themselves, and shows you how they were won by the British, and how that victory was turned into the liberation of Burma itself. The text is lucid, and his accounts of the battles are easy to follow, and don't use technical terms not accessible to the layman, though there is a bit of British slang that might be hard for a non-Brit to follow.<br />The most interesting part of the campaign is the personalities involved. On the Allied side, patrician Lord Mountbatten, working-class Field Marshal Slim, visionary Brigadier Wingate, and acerbic (and somewhat xenophobic) American General Stilwell all had their differences with each other, and their squabbles are covered in enough detail to give the reader the gist of what was going on. The Japanese are covered a bit less fully, but their senior commander, named Mutaguchi, is raked over the coals for having no idea what the conditions at the front were like, and ordering attacks well after there was any possibility of victory. There is a good deal of detail about the progress of the battles, and the instances of personal bravery, especially among the British.<br />This is a good book, and I would recommend it to anyone. There is one advisory, though. In recent years, the aforementioned Wingate garners much praise and little criticism, and this book follows that tack, largely at the expense of Slim. There is a school of thought that thinks this wrong-headed (I tend to side with Wingate, but what do I know) and the reader should be aware that there are two sides to the story.	2002-05-02
1559404:US	52850806	R3RJWXNG4A7KFH	0312169396	571119253	A Murder in Macedon: A Mystery of Alexander the Great	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Intriguing mystery with historical setting	Historical mysteries are all the rage now, and so we come to the murder of a king in Ancient Greece, replete with conspiracy, intrigue, and witchcraft. Such novels are harder to write than regular detective novels: in addition to the mystery needing to be good, the historical aspects need to be good also. Here the author succeeds reasonably well, and the result is a good book, worth reading if you're interested in Greek history or mysteries.<br />I had only a sketchy knowledge of the murder of Philip of Macedon prior to this book, but what I saw in the book was good. The king is killed during a public ceremony by one of his own guards, who is about to escape, but killed by the guards under circumstances that make it look as if he was never intended to escape at all. There's also another assassin who's been killed, further confusing things.<br />The detective protagonist is the most interesting character in the book, a Jewish woman whose brother is a scribe for the king himself. Once the king is dead, Alexander (soon to be the Great) asks the woman and her brother to look into the murder, and what she finds is fun and intriguing. There's a spurned wife who indulges in witchcraft, and [unintellegent] son who seems harmless but is looking for a suspicious knife, a crafty old general who's scheming for power, a pair of brothers who are pretenders to the throne, etc. All of these are suspects, and Miriam, must sort through them and figure out who might or might not have done it.<br />Miriam and her brother are interesting characters, and the solution is believable, if a bit far-fetched. I would recommend the book, and will be looking for the sequel.	2002-05-01
1564248:US	52850806	R3SEP01316E1W2	0761535810	405735166	Bin Laden: The Man Who Declared War on America	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Much info about terrorist blurred by poor writing	Before September 11, I only vaguely knew who Osama bin Laden was. My primary knowledge was that he was supposedly the mastermind of the embassy bombings in eastern Africa in 1998. After the attacks, I had an opportunity to get some books on the mid-east and bin Laden cheap, and I picked this book among others, in an attempt to educate myself. This was the first of those books that I read; I regret that now. While there's much good information here, I fear it will be mostly inaccessible to all but the most tenacious reader, because it's buried in a mass of very dense prose, and almost unreadable.<br />One major difficulty is that the author knows almost nothing about bin Laden, and apparently chooses to tell you less. He only mentions his fourth wife, for instance (nothing whatsoever about the other three) and doesn't even apparently know her name. Bin Laden's birthday is apparently a mystery, and there is almost no personal information about him that would qualify this as a true biography in any sense of the word. As a result, all the reader is given is a synopsis of  bin Laden's activities in the last decade or so, and of his political philosophy. Since bin Laden is a skilled terrorist mastermind, the author knows little for certain of his activities, and much of the book winds up being speculation. Where it isn't, there's the issue of unnamed sources, obviously necessary in intelligence operations, but annoying at best to anyone else trying to check on something the least bit controversial in the book itself. For instance, the author states firmly that bin Laden and al-Quaeda were directly involved (had people there shooting rifles) in the attack on U.S. troops in Somalia in 1993 that is depicted in the movie Blackhawk Down. I have read elsewhere that this is by no means a consensus opinion in American intelligence circles, but the author acknowledges no dissenting viewpoint, merely stating the facts as he sees them.<br />The political philosophy portions of the book are exceptionally boring. Page after page of seemingly interminable threats, religious decrees, utterances by bin Laden himself, and communiqus, are dissected in detail. Unfortunately, often several of these, placed back to back in the text, say largely the same thing. Each one is gone over in excruciating detail, with the author telling you what he thinks everything means.<br />One further detail: the book was completed in 1999, and hasn't been updated. There's no information whatsoever on the attack on the U.S.S. Cole (which took place in 2000) or obviously on the September 11 attacks. The author does make the case that bin Laden and his followers are going to try a serious attack on America (he believes that they will try weapons of mass destruction) and I suppose that September 11 qualifies. On this basis anyway, I think I can say the author makes a better prophet than he does a writer.	2002-04-27
1566449:US	52850806	R1ILPV6BT7NQDC	0515089184	485803601	Bataan/march Of Death	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Brief and serviceable history of The infamous Death March	The Bataan Death March was once part of the American conciousness, ingrained in the popular culture to the point that I'm sure most people would have thought it would never be forgotten. Well it has, largely, and that's not good. Stanley Falk's book, written forty years ago, is a useful survey of the incident, though it's short on the sort of personal or oral history that marks most of the WW2 books of more recent vintage, and probably suffers as a result.<br />The Death March itself was the last act, almost, of the American defense of the Philippines (then an American possession, though nominally independent) in 1942. Bataan is a peninsula to the West of the capital city of Manila, forming part of that city's large harbor, and American soldiers and their Philippine allies forted up there at the beginning of the war when the Japanese invaded the islands, and held out through the early months of 1942. They were finally forced to surrender, and as prisoners were marched to the site of the POW camps where they would spend the remainder of the war. During the march to the camps, many of the prisoners were badly mistreated by Japanese guards, and suffered greatly from starvation, thirst, disease, and the heat. Most of the marching prisoners were Filipino, about 10% being American. The Japanese were prepared for about half the number of prisoners they wound up capturing, and expected them to be in better health than they were. Japanese culture also emphasized discipline, violence, and a suicidal never-give-up mentality that made contempt for Westerners who had surrendered to the enemy very intense in some instances. That, combined with a lack of planning and staff work, made for a journey which killed a substantial portion of the prisoners involved (it's thought about 650 Americans and 10,000+ Filipinos) over several days.<br />Author Falk does a good job recounting this in the context of the times, though as I said in the intro, his work is rather short on the oral history that makes later accounts of events like this more telling. His writing is judicious, and given that he was writing relatively close to the events (seventeen years after) it's a balanced and fair account of what occurred.	2002-04-25
1567858:US	52850806	R3FEM6EPVW8UHH	0451205170	68420116	Angel in Black	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Heller vs. the Black Dahlia killer	Max Allan Collins is a sort of a Renaissance Man. He's an independent film-maker, scripted the Dick Tracy comics series for 16 years, and writes mystery novels (ten Shamus nominations, won twice). You wonder how he has time to breathe and eat, let alone make a life with a wife and son. Of these accomplishments, the mystery novel series is perhaps the best known. A dozen of the books are private eye novels with a main character who's a sort of guide to the crime world of the late 20's to the late 50's. This character is Nathan Heller, the half-Irish half-Jewish ex-cop who is friends with Capone, traded shots with Dillinger, and searched for Amelia Earhart and the Lindbergh baby. You have to be willing to accept that one person would be involved in this many different famous crimes of the century, but once you make this leap of faith, the books are wonderful evocations of life in the first half of the century, replete with characters and scenes that stay with you. The solutions to the real-life mysteries are well-researched and believable, and often the author has done original work that leads non-fiction writers to new sources and accounts of the crime in question.<br />The crime in question is the Black Dahlia murder case, in which an aspiring actress was tortured and murdered, the body being cut in half at the waist after death. Collins has to hook Heller in somehow, and as is often the case, his libido gets him involved: he had a short affair with the victim, Elizabeth Short. Coincidentally, Heller is in Los Angeles, and happens to be there when the body's discovered, and recognizes his former lover. Soon he's working for a local paper, doing background, and unofficially looking to find the killer himself. Admittedly, this beginning is a bit of a stretch, but if you read the series, you're used to this sort of thing and accept it. If you're not, just go with it, it's worth it.<br />Heller has an interesting problem, which is two-fold. First, he has the problem that if the L.A. cops figure out that he was having an affair with the victim, he might wind up a suspect, especially as he's in L.A. with his new wife, who wouldn't be amused by an old girlfriend. Second, and perhaps worse, he's the only cop on the case who thinks this killing might be something other than a bizarre sex-crime. The plot zips right along, with Heller crossing paths with Orson Wells, Mickey Cohen, and other famous figures from L.A. history, entertainment, press, and politics. There's even a cameo with Heller's old friends Barney Ross and Eliot Ness. The solution is something of a surprise, possible but a bit of a stretch, but fun none the less. I would highly recommend this book, with the caveat that if you haven't read the author's earlier book Butcher's Dozen, you're going to be a bit taken aback when the twist comes. I know I was, even though I'd read the previous book.	2002-04-24
1572900:US	52850806	R1D7RZCLLLTNW8	0451201558	339633632	Cold Case (Alan Gregory)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Weak plot but strong characters mark this mystery	I've never read one of Steven White's mystery novels before. I wasn't aware he had a series going (which is one thing that I enjoy a great deal) and frankly hadn't heard of him. This book, for all it's flaws, has awakened me to him, and I'll be looking for others in the series.<br />Alan Gregory is a psychologist who's married to an Assistant District Attorney, Lauren Gregory. Lauren is pregnant and fighting MS. The two of them are summoned by a friend from Colorado to the east coast, where they meet a sort of club that specializes in solving mysteries that are old, and therefore \\"cold.\\" They are asked to assist in the club's latest project, which is solving the murder, a dozen years before, of two girls (one of them Japanese) in Colorado near where Gregory and his wife live. The girls disappeared one winter, and weren't discovered till the snow melted. They'd been mutilated, and their snowmobile had crashed. Gregory and his wife agree, and from there on they investigate the crime, and another that occurred at about the same time, for about 400 pages.<br />The mystery itself isn't that entertaining. Procedural stuff these days is rather mundane; everyone knows how a crime scene is worked, who takes charge of what, and all of that. The crime itself is easily solved: I won't tell you who dunnit, but if you're anything like me, the first time you meet the character, you guess he has to be the killer, or at least a bad guy. This is kind of annoying, especially since it's so based on stereotypes (read the book and you'll see what I mean) and predictable. I was hoping for a twist or something more innovative (and frankly he did surprise me a bit at the end) but I think I was mostly disappointed.<br />Why then would I recommend the book? The characters, especially the secondary ones, are outstanding. Gregory himself is somewhat of an enigma, and his wife is little better. But the supporting characters, the crimefighters of Locard (the club) and a reporter from the Washington Post, are wonderful. We meet a woman with a marvelous selection of designer eye patches for her bad eye, an immature rock-climber who's also a pathologist, a reclusive computer expert, a prosecutor who knits in her spare time...It's all wonderful, and very much better than the plot. I'll be checking out Mr. White, to see what else he's written.	2002-04-20
1575569:US	52850806	R15OF2KGARATCV	0802137660	342863234	Cromwell	Books	4	71	77	N	N	Oliver Cromwell in detail	I don't know much about the English Civil War. I do know a fair bit about military history (having read a lot of it over the past 25 years) and so I somehow came into possession of a second-hand copy of Antonia Fraser's biography of Oliver Cromwell. This is a well-written, thorough (perhaps a bit too thorough) biography of a fascinating, very deeply religious man and successful soldier.<br />The author backgrounds Cromwell reasonably well, given that sources for his early life are presumably scarce, but the heart of the book (after the first 90 pages or so) is his military and political career. He started this as a Member of Parliament, became a junior soldier (a captain to start), moved up through the ranks to the top of England's military, then reverted to politics as Lord Protector, and was even offered the crown as king just before he died. All of this last happened in the final sixteen or so years of his life: a very eventful period.<BR> <BR>The book divides into three stages after the early life segment: subordinate commander in the Army, commander of the Army, and finally Lord Protector. The last is the longest, with much discussion in detail of English politics of the era, the wars they fought and why, and issues ranging from religious tolerance to the fate of Royalists who stayed in England when the King was executed and Parliament took on the reins of government. The military chapters are especially well done. Fraser isn't a military historian, but she exhibits a considerable grasp of the nature of battles and why things happen the way they do. The battles are covered in considerable detail, so that Cromwell's genius can be understood (he appears to be the only English general in history able to control that country's cavalry) and his impact fully appreciated. The political section of the book bogged down for me a bit, I suppose because the politics of those days hold little interest for me, and that section of the book is the longest. Nevertheless, I enjoyed the book greatly, and would recommend it.	2002-04-18
1581587:US	52850806	R10TIFKUXFL8F8	0446667900	347427189	A Darkness More Than Night (A Harry Bosch Novel)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Weaker Connelly mystery still strong	Michael Connelly is one of my favorite detective novelists, right up there with Robert B. Parker, Jeffrey Deaver, and Sue Grafton. I think he's most comparable to Deaver, because they both specialize in interesting plot twists that keep you guessing, but Connelly is also good at compelling characters, interesting locales, and smart dialogue. Unfortunately, the plot here isn't up to some of his other books, but the rest of the ingredients are still present, and Connelly's a good enough writer that when he's a bit off, it's still a good book.<br />The book starts with the hero from Blood Work, Terry McCaleb, being asked by a friend to look at a homicide \\"book\\" for her. This is the combined file that detectives keep on a case, and in this instance she's hoping he sees something she hasn't. She thinks the case is the first in a series of murders, and wants to get a jump on the killer. McCaleb is intrigued, and quickly develops a serious suspect: Hieronymous (Harry) Bosch, the hero of Connelly's series of detective novels (he's been in six previous books) and a dedicated if a bit obsessed LAPD homicide detective with a very dark past. McCaleb works the case with various hindrances (a friend who may be spying on him, his medication for a past illness, his wife's concern for him, meddling reporters and other cops) and wavers between suspecting Bosch and others. This is the weakest part of the book: one reviewer said he guessed the ending about 100 pages beforehand, but I had it about halfway through.<br />Connelly's strength is his characters and atmosphere, and they're both in evidence here. Bosch and McCaleb are fun to watch together, the bad guys are so evil they're fun, there's a typical sleazy lawyer, and so forth. The characters eat at Musso & Franks, In and Out, and so on, and move around recognizable locations in LA, which is fun for someone who lives here. Connelly used to report for the LA Times, and you can tell he knows the city pretty well. All said, while it's not his strongest plot, it's still worth the effort.	2002-04-13
1600977:US	52850806	RP67SJTLCABT	0895871505	815484504	General Robert F. Hoke: Lee's Modest Warrior	Books	3	8	17	N	N	Worthwhile bio of obscure Civil War general marred by flaws.	Robert F. Hoke led an interesting life. He was a young man when the Civil War broke out (mid-twenties) and enlisted as a lieutenant in the 1st North Carolina Volunteers, seeing combat at the Battle of Big Bethel in Virginia in 1861. Four years later, a Major General, he was one of the principle players at the Battle of Bentonville, one of the last battles of the Civil War. In between he missed few battles (though Gettysburg was one; he'd been severely wounded), rose quickly through the ranks to prominence, and was roundly and pretty universally praised, at least according to the author. All of these things are summarized relatively competently in 14 of the 17 chapters of this book; the remaining chapters cover his pre- and post-war life, and summarize his achievments. What then is my gripe? Well, I have several.<br />First, the author is a bit more pro-Confederate than you would expect in this day and age. Granted both author and subject are from the same part of North Carolina, but is that any excuse for the use of the word &quot;Negro?&quot; I haven't seen that in a book published since the '50s, perhaps early '60s. And no, it's not part of a quotation. Captured North Carolina soldiers who enlist in the Union army are traitors, while Union soldiers who wind up in Confederate ranks are &quot;trators&quot; (note the quote, implying the author disagrees with the judgement of treason). It's all a bit much.<br />Second, the author imparts a great deal of wisdom and skill to Hoke. I have no problem with some of it, but the idea that he was so skilful that General Lee would want himself replaced by Hoke should Lee be incapacitated or killed seems to stretch the bounds of believability a bit too much.<br />Third, the author is handicapped by the characteristic that he imparts to Hoke in the subtitle; modesty. Hoke never wrote much of anything about his war service, kept no diary during the war, wrote few letters discussing it (at least that have survived), and never gavespeeches or anything. He never attended veterans' reunions (very unusual for a Civil War general from either side) saying that the war was over, and it was time to look forward. Consequently, the book is very much Hoke as others saw him, not as he saw things himself. This last point, I will grant you, is not the author's fault, but it does hamper the book somewhat in that the picture of Hoke is almost exclusively external; we have no idea what he's thinking most of the time.<br />Lastly, there are no maps. In a book of Civil War biography like this where the author is trying to tell you that Hagood's brigade was deployed to the east of the swamp, facing a creek, with Hill's division on his left, you need to be able to look at the map to see which creek or river, etc. No one has the capability to look at all this stuff and visualize where everyone is on the battlefield.	2002-03-29
1607240:US	52850806	R2W2XPLXQGZXU3	0671005227	124716761	Savage Wilderness	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Coyle ventures further into the past	Harold Coyle is one of the followers-on of Tom Clancy. He's done a series of reasonably well-recieved books based on modern potential conflicts. What sets him apart is that one of his main characters in several of the books is female, and she's relatively believable. He's made it so that it's concievable that a woman could be a good officer at the infantry level, which is an accomplishment.<BR>However, Coyle has taken a different tack the last several years. He's been writing historical novels, and though in some ways they're good, he's gotten away from his strenghts. He did two novels on the Civil War (Look Away and Until the End) which rested on a tenuous and predictable plot device: one brother winds up in the Confederate army, the other in the Union one...it was a bit much.<BR>Here, he ventures into the French and Indian wars. He has four main characters, a British officer, a Scotsman who's been transported as a prisoner to Virginia and earned his freedom there, a French artillery officer who is a follower of Rousseau and Voltaire, and an American Indian, who's allied with the French because it gives him a chance to kill whites. The plot device used to connect the characters is that two of them met at Culloden in 1745 (the British officer and the Scotsman). This only sort of works; there's no reason for the other two people to be in the story at all. They see each other on the battlefield (the Frenchman and the Indian have a conflict going on, over when it's reasonable to kill prisoners), but other than that there's no interaction at all between the characters. So the story meanders along, not really anything more than an excuse to hang a recounting of the French and Indian war onto several plot devices. Don't get me wrong: I have no objection to the history itself, it's just that the wooden love scenes in the middle sort of detract from the overall effect. There are parts of the war that get much treatment, because the characters are there, and other parts thatget scant or no treatment, because they aren't... Lastly, you're left hanging, waiting for the Revolutionary war sequel, knowing that the colonials will be rebels, wondering what the British officer will do (he marries a wealthy New Yorker towards the end of the book), and wondering completely what's happening to the Indians. It's been four years, and Coyle's written other books, which are modern again. Maybe the sequel was going to be more of the same, and the publisher told him to return to what he's good at.	2002-03-24
1615561:US	52850806	R4X1E34NWCT4F	0156970902	344928933	Wind, Sand and Stars	Books	5	179	185	N	N	Pilot-Philosopher laureate of France	Antoine de Saint-Exupery was one of the most interesting figures of 20th century literature. He wrote The Little Prince, a children's book that sold 200,000 copies in the U.S. alone in one year several years ago, and was also the author of several novels and memoirs, all relating to flying, of which this is one. The author was MIA over his beloved France while flying for the Free French Air Force in 1944 (after having to argue to be allowed to fly in combat; he was considered a national treasure). It appears the site of the wreck was discovered in the water just off the Riviera a couple of years ago, though no one's certain. <BR>   Wind, Sand and Stars is a recounting of several episodes in Saint-Exupery's life as a pilot, told to illustrate his view of the world, and especially his opinions of what makes life worth living, and who we are or should be. He was a wonderfully insightful individual, and his prose and ideas are the sort of thing you'll carry with you for years. I would highly recommend this book.	2002-03-18
1617715:US	52850806	R33L4OZ31SA8UR	0803229208	266124975	Commanding the Red Army's Sherman Tanks: The World War II Memoirs of Hero of the Soviet Union Dmitriy Loza	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Wonderful account of Soviet use of Shermans during WW2	During WW2, the United States shipped a whole lot of Lend Lease material to the Soviet Union, and included in this equipment was a total of about 5,000 tanks. Most of those shipped were diesel-powered M4A2 Sherman tanks (emchas to their Soviet crews, after an abbreviation of the Russian pronunciation of M4) and this book is the memoir of the service of an officer who rode several of these tanks from the Ukraine to Czechoslovakia, then across the Gobi Desert to Mukden. It's well-written (not always a hallmark of Soviet war memoirs) and full of wonderful anecdotes, from whiskey bottles in the gun breeches to problems with the rubber-covered tracks and the high center of gravity. Strangely, Loza has more good things to say about the Sherman tank than Belton Cooper, who wrote Death Traps (which I just read). Cooper thinks the tanks were no match for their German counterparts, Loza argues that used properly, emphasizing speed and maneuverability, they could and did stand up to the Panthers and even Tigers tolerably well. The book includes several incredible stories, the sort of thing you wouldn't believe if the author hadn't witnessed the events themselves, and concludes with a bizarre kamikaze attack by Japanese planes on the tank column. My one gripe is that at points you feel you're missing something with regards to the author's private life (at one point he mentions that he has a family now, but you hear nothing of that otherwise; mention of his wounding and the events surrounding it are very sketchy) but that doesn't really merit a drop in my rating from the highest.	2002-03-16
1618150:US	52850806	R3CW1IQQEZV8UJ	0312292015	41243541	The Fire of Liberty	Books	4	3	3	N	N	British view of the American Revolution	This is a compilation of letters, diary entries, and accounts from various participants and witnesses, to the principle events, on the battlefield anyway, of the American Revolutionary War. Editor Wright interposes commentary linking the various quotes, and is generally judicious and even-handed. The quotes are mostly a paragraph or two, and occasionally just a sentence, and they are sorted by year. The edition of this book I got was from the Folio Society, a British book club that does premium editions of books, and they include color illustrations that often don't accompany other editions. Given that, this is a worthwhile addition to any library on the American Revolution, though serious historians would find it a bit superficial, I think.	2002-03-15
1619565:US	52850806	R192G8M8Y7WM7G	0804109524	125326	Over the Abyss	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Inside Soviet mine and booby-trap warfare in WW2	This is a very good partial autobiography of Starinov, gleaned from several books he wrote and one his wife authored, translated and filled out by Suggs, who does a creditable job with the text and his interludes hanging things together where there are gaps. Starinov was apparently one of the Soviet Union's experts on booby traps and mine warfare during much of the thirties and forties. The first half of the book covers the period pre-WW2, the second half the war. In the first half, the author participates in the Russian Civil War, teaches classes in sabotage in the Soviet Union's military schools, serves in the Spanish Civil War, and gets wounded in the Winter War with Finland. The second half is an account of the author's service in WW2, which largely consisted of training personnel who were sent to act as partisans behind German lines. The author's specialty seems to have been destroying trains with mines, and he developed several for this purpose. Overall it's a good book, with much interesting information on the Soviet high command's culture in the 30's and 40's. The only failing of the book is that the lurid cover tells you of the author's participation in LRRP warfare (the term LRRP is used twice) when in fact the author was rarely in combat (and never during WW2) and was mostly concerned with things other than reconnaisance anyway. The cover also says he served in WW1, which is incorrect. If you can accept this one annoyance, the book is quite good, and full of information not elsewhere available.	2002-03-14
3062726:US	52850806	R2RD3TEKP75O27	0807823791	781049187	Pickett's Charge in History and Memory (Civil War America)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	An unusual and informative look at the Battle of Gettysburg	About 3 years ago, I read the 3 books Gary Gallagher edited that are essay collections on the battle of Gettysburg. While the books dealing with the first and second day had interesting material in them, the one on the third day had a truly interesting essay on Pickett's Charge, by a woman who's a military historian. I'm sure she's sick of hearing it, but female military historians are rather rare, so I read it with some interest. It was worth my time, definitely, and this book is an expansion of the themes presented in the essay.<br />Gettysburg is a controversial subject, and while there has been much ink spilled adding to the controversy, this book instead aims to dissect the controversy surrounding the denoument of the whole event: Pickett's Charge. Reardon first covers the events of the charge very briefly, then wades right in and recounts the memory and history of the event as it developed over the years. There's a whole chapter, for instance, on the efforts of the North Carolina historical societies and veterans' organizations trying to rehabilitate the reputation of Tarheels who fought during Pickett's Charge, because they were blamed (by Virginians in Pickett's division and elsewhere) for the defeat. Watching the history of an event unfold and change as the generations pass is enthralling, and Reardon tells the story skillfully, keeping the pace up nicely and showing a formidable command of publications on the Battle and Pickett's Charge itself...<br />All in all, a truly remarkable book and one well worth reading. A 9 is the highest rating I've given here; and I've rated 10 or 15 books now.	1998-01-07
3068332:US	52850806	R30K5L31CRG7QF	0671226258	797552465	Bitter Glory: Poland and Its Fate (1918-1939)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Poland between the wars...	Richard Watt has produced a readable volume that recounts the only period of modern Polish independance prior to the current one. It's complete, and seems to cover the issues reasonably well. Looming over the whole book is the figure of Jozef Pilsudski, the father of modern Poland, and he is reasonably well-described here. Good book, though the writing, while reasonable, isn't on the Barbara Tuchman-Robert Massie skill level writing-style wise.	1997-12-05
3069297:US	52850806	R3GCWS93PKEMYV	0451168429	737730936	Depraved Indifference (Signet)	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Croatian terrorists in NYC	Robert K. Tannenbaum (who I believe is or was Mayor of Beverly Hills) has produced a couple of these lawyer novels, with the main character, in contrast to Grisham et al, a prosecutor. Butch Karp (don't you love that name?) is a young ambitious Assistant DA in the NYC prosecutor's office, with the twist that things all take place when Tannenbaum was apparently there as a young man, in the mid-70's. This time he's trying to put Croatian Terrorists behind bars for killing a bomb squad cop. There are some amazing twists of the plot, and a few that stretch credulity or are rather sudden, but the whole thing is entertaining reading, if a bit long. It also has a rather anti-climactic ending that some might find offensive (a disabled person impersonates one of the main characters and disgraces him). If you can overlook these rather minor flaws, it's a good book.	1997-11-30
3069677:US	52850806	RI1E0CQ6ZZEIE	0192823183	262067379	The Riddle of the Sands: A Record of Secret Service (Oxford Popular Fiction)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A significant book in history	Erskine Childers' The Riddle of the Sands is an unusual book: one that deserves to be read, not for the entertainment value it carries now (which is only mediocre, at best) but for the historical import it carries with it. It was written at the turn of the century, and the author meant to convey a real situation and what he concieved of as an emergency to the British public. It worked: the premise of the book led to significant changes in British Naval policy within a few years.<br /> The book itself is well-written from the style point of view, but the plot is sort of tame, and the suspense is rather shallow by modern standards. For all intents, from that point of view, it compares most favorably with some of Hammond Innes' Novels, which are good sea-adventure stuff also.	1997-11-27
3070089:US	52850806	R4NGW1G2SIAIY	0804115486	335815295	Enigma	Books	5	12	16	N	N	A different Spy novel	Some years ago I read a spy novel where the main characters needed to escape from Nazi Germany with some info on the bad guys they'd stolen. It was very entertaining, but for me kind of silly because I'd just read a book on the British codebreakers, and I knew the information had gotten to the Allies by much more mundane means. Robert Harris turns all of this on it's head and even makes it suspenseful. Enigma is the story, in novel form, of the British codebreaking effort that won WW2, to a large extent anyway, for the Western Allies. Interwoven into the plot is a hunt for a German spy among the codebreakers, and while that story is interesting (and the solution and motive bring out another story less often told) the main focus is a novel version of David Kahn's Seizing the Enigma, with all the suspense of the codebreakers grappling with the Kriegsmarine's codes as the convoys approach the U-boats... It's a very good book.	1997-11-25
3070106:US	52850806	R19SAM9D08OJQV	0345375564	836091346	Dreadnought: Britain, Germany, and the Coming of the Great War	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Massive book on the coming of the Great War	Robert K. Massie is given to large books, and this one is no exeption. You almost think his last name is missing the &quot;v,&quot; so that it could be spelled &quot;Massive.&quot;<br />  Dreadnought is about the half-century or so before the onset of World War I, and while the author tries his hand at history, he is best at biography, and here, in a hundred thumbnail sketches of the leaders in Berlin and London, he excells with an ease rather rare in non-fiction writers.<br />    There are, however, a number of frustrating aspects to this book. First, the author insists on anglicizing the Kaiser's name: William. What's frustrating about this is that the author is also inconsistent about it: William will talk to Franz Josef (Francis Joseph?) the Austro-Hungarian emperor, and in the same sentence, he's anglicized the one name and left the other in German. There are a number of annoying mistakes that should have been caught: the American revolution lasted from 1775-1881, the Prince of Wales moved into his London home with his wife the year before they were married (I think Queen Victoria, his mother, would have disapproved) and so forth. And lastly there's the author's ignorance of the subject the book's titled after. While he does alright on the basics of warship design, he then goes into a soliliqy about the tragedy of the design of the British battlecruisers, explaining that they never should have been committed to combat at the battle of Jutland some years later because their armor was too thin. This just isn't true. The Germans committed battlecruisers also, and lost none (Massie says they lost one, but he's wrong) while the British lost three, due to a flaw in their design  that they could have fixed if they'd thought it important: the shell-lift from the magazine to the turrets wasn't sealed when the guns were firing, meaning that a fire in the turret almost automatically blew up the ship. The Germans had already corrected this at the time of Jutland, and though their ships were being fired at by British ones with much larger guns, they only lost one old battleship, among the larger ships.<br />    All this being said, this is a wonderful book to read. Whenever I read a mistake of fact in a book of non-fiction, I always wonder what else he's missing that I don't know about, so I can't recommend the book unreservedly. But if interesting reading on turn-of-the-century Europe is what you're looking for, this is right on the shelf next to Barbara Tuchman.	1997-11-24
3072935:US	52850806	R2L9L9JM23QOS5	0195406796	343040053	Unauthorized Action: Mountbatten and the Dieppe Raid	Books	5	17	17	N	N	An incisive study of Governments at war	I was prepared not to like this book. I say this at the beginning to give the reader of this review warning: I'm a convert, somewhat, to the author's point of view.<br /> The Dieppe Raid is one of the puzzles of WW2. Why the British persisted in launching it when it had already been cancelled once, and was obviously a precarious proposition at best, has never been satisfactorily explained. My worry was that Villa, being a Canadian, would take an explicitly anti-British point of view, with which I would take issue. He doesn't.<br /> Instead, the book focuses on the decision-making process, and the way governments launch operations in wartime. This part of the book is fascinating, and enlightening. His premise (that Mountbatten launched the raid himself, as Combined Operations head, without the required approval of the Chiefs of Staff) is a bit of a stretch, but by the end of the book, I was willing to say I needed to see an alternative explanation before I believed otherwise.<br />  The book's style is rather formal, and there's little attempt at humor or levity, but the writing is clear and incisive. The author has obviously done his homework. There are separate chapters on the navy and RAF, both of which display knowledge of the overall context of the period of the war in which Dieppe took place, and the circumstances under which the decision was made. All of this strongly adds to the book itself, and the author's thesis. All in all a very good book.	1997-11-06
3073733:US	52850806	RMYUS62JG0XQ7	0316773522	561092916	Special Tasks: The Memoirs of an Unwanted Witness - A Soviet Spymaster	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Red Scare wasn't.	The end of the Cold War has brought some interesting books into the light of day, and none is more fascinating than this memoir by a Cold War veteran who directed the assasination of Trotsky, himself assasinated Ukranian dissidents, and controlled the efforts to steal the secrets of the Atomic Bomb from the USA. The man is apparently the last living Bolshevik (at least he was alive at the time of writing, whether he survives today I don't know.) as he joined the Soviet army, if you can believe this, at age 12 in 1919, and survived to pen this memoir in 1993. The whole thing takes on a sort of moral play aspect, as the main character kills people, then directs other killers, finally is denounced and unfairly punished himself (not for murders but for disloyalty, which was untrue) and in the end, is partially redeemed and pardoned. It's an absolutely amazing story, only partially weakened by the writers' inability to resist providing interludes explaining what happened to people in the story later. This sometimes breaks the narrative badly, as some of the interludes take a page or two right in the middle of Sudoplatov directing atomic espionage or something. These should have been relegated to footnotes or something, but even so the story itself is so incredible it speaks for itself.	1997-11-01
3074595:US	52850806	RLHESSSGI62R5	0812693124	801957712	Emancipating Slaves, Enslaving Free Men: A History of the American Civil War	Books	3	18	52	N	N	An economist's view of the American Civil War	Jeffrey Rogers Hummel, a historian and economist at Golden GateUniversity, has produced an innovative, unusual, analytical view ofthe American Civil War, that's ultimately very frustrating and unsatisfying. It's one of those books I hate to criticize, because I'm always in favor of alternative points of view on history, provided they have some basis in fact. The problem isn't fact here, though, it's interpretation, consistency, and sometimes stubborn wrong-headedness.<br /> The American Civil War has been the subject of many books, and this one is very different in that the author tries valiantly to shoehorn all the economical, social, and political data he can into his account of the war, its causes, courses, and results. While that's a good idea, some of the conclusions he comes to, and often his emphasis, seem poorly thought out or just wrong.<br /><br />The book contains, at the end of each chapter, bibliographical notes that not only tell the reader which books are worthy of further study, but also, if the reader is astute enough, give a hint as to the author's philosophy and thinking. Unusually, the author lists several works of fiction in these bibliographical notes, and the first hint we might be in trouble is that he liked Ambrose Bierce's short stories, William Safire's Freedom, and Gore Vidal's Lincoln, but didn't like Michael Shaara's The Killer Angels or Stephen Crane's The Red Badge of Courage. The former three books are all very cynical (Freedom turns Rose O'Neal Greenhow into a dominatrix spanking Union military secrets out of a U.S. Senator!) while the latter two are much more positive, and take place exclusively on battlefields. Hummel doesn't seem to think battlefields have much to do with wars.<br /><br />Instead, the author wants to study the various political and economic factors that drove the war. I'm completely unqualified to speak on the economic aspects of the war or the author's opinions of them, but I do know that while they may have influenced the outcome, they didn't determine it. The author seem unsure what did.<br /><br />There are also a number of maddening inconsistencies and illogicities in the text which sometimes just don't make sense. For instance, the author seems to really dislike Abraham Lincoln, and spends much time critiquing his handling of the early war period, as if a one-term Congressman should have been able to administer a government bigger than the country had ever had before by a factor of a hundred or so. The truth is Lincoln learned how to run the government remarkably fast, and was better at picking generals than his counterpart, Jefferson Davis, who held onto Braxton Bragg right up til the end in spite of the fact it was obvious he was incompetent. The author also repeats the old canard about the 1876 election being a fraudulent Republican victory, when in reality the Democrats drove away from the polls (through their surrogates in the KKK) millions of black voters who would have ensured Republican victory.<br /><br />The result is a very frustrating book: the author makes some good points, only to fall on his face when building on them. Much of the book is very good, but the ending conclusion (that the North should have let the South secede, because they wouldn't have been able to survive outside the Union) is very debatable at best, and preposterous if clearly thought out. It's a shame, because there's some good material here. ENDthe outcome, they didn't determine it. The author seem unsure what did.<br />  There are also a number of maddening inconsistencies and illogicities in the text which sometimes just don't make sense. For instance, the author seems to really dislike Abraham Lincoln, and spends much time critiquing his handling of the early war period, as if a one-term Congressman should have been able to administer a government bigger than the country had ever had before by a factor of a hundred or so. The truth is Lincoln learned how to run the government remarkably fast, and was better at picking generals than his counterpart, Jefferson Davis, who held onto Braxton Bragg right up til the end in spite of the fact it was obvious he was incompetent. The author also repeats the old canard about the 1876 election being a fraudulent Republican victory, when in reality the Democrats drove away from the polls (through their surrogates in the KKK) millions of black voters who would have ensured Republican victory.<br />  The result is a very frustrating book: the author makes some good points, only to fall on his face when building on them. Much of the book is very good, but the ending conclusion (that the North should have let the South secede, because they wouldn't have been able to survive outside the Union) is very debatable at best, and preposterous if clearly thought out. It's a shame, because there's some good material here. END	1997-10-25
3075234:US	52850806	R8ORKG9F9LF1D	0700608206	275186270	Stonewall of the West: Patrick Cleburne and the Civil War (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Impressive biography of one of the Confederacy's finest.	These days, the publishing world is well-supplied with Civil War general biographies. Even Gideon Pillow has one! Among those Civil War generals little understood or long remembered, and unjustifiably so, has been Patrick R. Cleburne. Craig L. Symonds fixes that quite nicely with this solid, well-written biography.<br /> Cleburne came to the U.S. from Ireland, a protestant who immigrated in a ship's cabin rather than a Catholic who came in steerage. His life in Ireland before he came here, including his service in the British Army, are detailed more than I've ever read elsewhere, and his political and private life in Arkansas are retold carefully also.<br />  It's the war, however, that gets most of Symonds' attention. We learn how Cleburne rose in rank, where he fought in various battles, and much about the various squabbles he had with other generals, notably his army commander, Braxton Bragg. We also learn, at some length, about the famous emancipation document that Cleburne presented to the rest of the army in the winter of 1863-4, and the impact it had on the rest of the army, and his career. You get a considerable amount of respect for the quaities of the man, commander and person that he was. He actually ran map exercises on a primitive level for his brigade commanders that winter of 1863-4, among the first of their type in the world. This is an impressive and thoughtful biography, the sort of book Cleburne has long deserved and not gotten.	1997-10-21
3076515:US	52850806	R1VQFASDG11JFG	0804711607	617876754	Nomonhan: Japan Against Russia, 1939	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Heavy sledding about WWII	Alvin D. Coox's Nomonhan is one of those books that's hard to review. It's packed with information, has good maps, and the author obviously plumbed every Japanese source he could get his hands on, but the text is wearing and somewhat dull, and the iteration of facts gets to be a bit much after a while. It's a real doorstop (1253 pages, including two sets of notes, bibliography, and index) and very long. In addition, you wonder how much the analysis would benefit from a better reading of the Soviet side of things (not Coox's fault; the book was published in 1984, and Soviet archives were not open). All of this notwithstanding, the serious student of WW2 won't find a better or more detailed study of this crucial and little-understood battle.	1997-10-13
